{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__johnson___a_treatise_on_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"A Treatise On Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
. /
•
.A.
'
TREATISE
••
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
·BY CHARLES p, JOHNSON, A.M•
..n- are -- thiDp Ia Maftll aDd .artJa,
,_ are U...p& ot iD roar pbU.Opb,."
.,..,_._
NEW-YORK:
PUBLISHED BY BURGESS & STRINGER: .
J.lJlED W. BlllLL, PllJNTD.
1844•
..~
o191t1zed by Coogle
...--
.
o,9itized by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
OHAP."l'El\ J.
IT has been the fate of ahno$l. every new discovery, whetb..
n i.n tnO:t:4LlS 0~ science, in i(S passage tO popul~l' favor, tO
~t w~~~ the most unco~promising opposition. Scarcelr
~ the id~ of it be suggested, before the standard is raised
aga~nst it, and ~t must either yield wholly to the derisions ol
the multitude, or but scarcely maintain itself for a time,
~inst the clamor of those whose interest or views it.conn-
~racts. So universal has this feeling been, (and it still exists
to a grellt extent,) that many, who in the seclusions of their
c,hambers, hav.e projecteQ schemes of high importJince to the
w.e,l~re ofmankin~, have been deterred. from. making them
~ilO\Vn, through fear of the scoffs pfthose, WOO are too igno;r,
W,lt or ¥l&sh to appreciate their worth. The actions, if no•
th.e voice of public ~ntiment seems to say, tl1at the world
11~. ~rive<l at its acme in literary and scientific progress;
a~d. ~h.at. no fttrthex: strides can be made in bring-ing te ma-
t\uity, the ebscure ~~ts of human.knowledge;.th~t the laws
\\'!O~h controL (l.n<l regulate the .Wnd, its secret winding!\
it& lloble i,r,npu.ls~s, and the glorious resulf4. to wbtqh ~~ ulti-
~~y t~n~, ax:e perfe~ly unde~tqQ<}. ln sho~, Ul{lt 'hW) i'
an old beaten path, in every department of human inv6~
t~ lWJi.<l9Wlfl! ~r~ ~ !!i:nce.,. ~4 f~ ~B®glt a4'1fMCed
fM ~~- PfO~ ~~ fM.ag.. ; pr~tty t~oughly; ~llpl~ ~
~~ ~~ aAA M 'lf~q vaotlJ• f~, i,w, ~JJ. ifl ~Uler •
*""'....~ ~ ~ ~.
D1g111zed by Coogle
''
\.
In the history of the past perhaps thia feeling mi(ht more
clearly be seen, but enough of it still remains to show us
that eome of the ao.me blood courses through the veins of the
descendants, that formed so conspicious a part in the history
of the ancestry. As it has been, so it is now, that in propor-
tion to the importance of the discovery, the more numerous
and formidable have been its opposers.
GALLtLEO for merely advancing lU1 opinion, contrary to
that which was held by the professedly scientific ofhis times,
respecting the revolution of a part of the solar system, was
condemned to the ~quisition, and this too, when his opinion
could not have resulted in any possible injury to those who
thus would blot him from existence.
HARVEY, the discoverer of the circulation ofthe blood, was
peraecuted by the most learned physicians of his time, and
they so prejudiced the people ~o-ainst him, that he lost hia
extensive practice, and was obliged to 6ee his native coun.
try.
FoLTON1 too, in our own country, who at first saw in the
vapor that rises from boiling water, a power by which we
might be proj,elled with the rapidity of the wind, wns perae.
euted and refused one look of approbation from the multi-
tude ofscientific men, to whom he appealed for aid, and when
his first boat was placed upon the waters of the no~le Hud-
aon, a throng crowded the piers, to point at him the finger of
acon1, at what, they could not for a moment doubt, must be
unsuccessful. And how many, when they saw the angry
waves ploughed by an unwielded boat, with no fluttering
sails, to invoke the aid ofa prosperous breeze, even then con-
sidered the experi~nt as but the emanation of a madman's
brain. But FoLTON was a philosopher, and had well calcu-
lated the ditliculties and the future glories of~is under-
taking.
What has been true of these, has aleo been true o{ hun-
dreds of others. They are now regarded as the great bene·
factors of their race, and every child is taught to reverence
them as those whom Providence has railed up to change tM
o191t1zed by Coogle
existing order of lhiugs, and guide mankind toward the
goal of perfe.ction.
As it has been with every new discovery and ita advocatea,
so it is now with Animal Magnetism ; bu~ like every other
truth, it will triumph over every opposition, and hold up to.
shame and contempt those who oppose it.
Its enemies are those who are selfishly ignorant, or are too
prejudiced to notice its claims to public attention ; for it is
the universal result that every one who carefully observes
and experiments, becomes convinced of its reality. Every
individual can satisfy himself of the truth or falsity of its
pretensions, and the object of the following pages, is to
induce our readers to direct their .attention to this subject,
10 that they may not only become satisfied of its truth, bnt
become acquainted with one of the most important aids for
the relief ofsuffering humanity, ever revealed to man.
We will conclude this chapter by asking the reader's atten-
tion to the following extract, from'' FAcTS IN MEsMERISM,11
by the Rev. Mr. TowNsHEND, a highly distinguished clergy-
man of the Church of England, which will answer in a far
better manner, than we are able, some of the objections
urged ~ooainst the science of Animal Magnetism, and by ita
close appeal, induc.e some who have commenced the perusal
of these pages with a sneer, to investigate the subject, with
at least an impartial mind.
"In thus venturing my full belie~ I am fully aware of the
obstacles wich I have to encounter. The fatal word im-
p08ture has tainted the subject of my inquiry, and ridicule,
which is not the test of truth, has been pressed into the ~er­
vice of talent, in order to annihilate the supposed absurdity
before the dread ordeal ofa laugh.
"But it is not only W:e witty who have set up }fesmerism
as the mark of their fiery arrows, men of science have
attacked it because they could not make it harmonise with
their pre-conceived notions, and pwlf of the Galena of our ·
day, instead of wisely taking it ~der their patronage, and
ioto their own hands, have treated it with a desperation o{
o191t1zed by Coogle
•
lamtility., u if, were it allowed to flourish, their glory wu
tarnished, and their occupation gone. What is wor~e, som~
9St.be friends and supporters of Animal Magnetism, have
done it mo:re disservice, than its bitterest foes. Instead of
l6tl\ng befbre the world the simplest features of the new dis-
eovery, they have at one~ produced to view, its most astoun-.
cling marvels, thus.dazzling into blindness the eyes, which
b:y a more cautious con4uct, they might have taught to ~~
Then it cannot be denied that the. name of Animal Magnet..
iam, has sometimes served as a. watchword to exploded
,uackery; and impudem deceit, and who does not know how
difficult it ~s to seperate the merit~ of any doctrine from th~
~ul.ts of its partisans 1
"' M;esmerism has occasionally-been found in company with.
\h~ v.icious. and designing, and its good repute has suffered
accordingIy."
An odium exists against' Animal Magnetism, which fond
M. we a.-e of the marvellous and those things shrouded in
my,ste~y, attaches ·to it a_
n idea of suspicion, and prevents
~ao,y. from entering upon its investigation. From this
~njust odium, if we can succeed in inducing people to direet
~heir attention, and.to look more at the merits of the subject,
():Ur· object will be in part gained.
That this. subject has already, and still may be made of
incalculable benefit to mankind, we.think capable of mathe·
~natical demonstration.
To strip the subject of some of the mystery which has
-
hithQrto enshroq.ded it, and to present some of its numerou~
advantages to the.~onsideration of the candid, is the desigu
'>f the. following pages. A tEuth full of importance.to the
'W'elfare of the human race, and tberefote need only to be
~ fQpro.v6of great, a«;ivaotage.
,
o191t1zed by Coogle
AJflMAL NAGIN&'1'18M.
'
CHAPT~R ll.
ftencb Conimittee-Dr. Franklin-Hietol'y of Jbitlnd :M'IIpetillii-Diitereat
piau. of Magnetiten-Tile me&D• employed to produce the e&ct, ~h.lrlliC
•Qe p~a. Gf Meil~r ~a Dell!aze, together With a Cleflil.ltioa Of it.
ALL history confirms the fact, that reformers in seieaCEJ't
as well as in religion, will arise, who will expose the corrupt
practices into which any system falls by long continued
action. While a LuTHER will start up, and by his bold and
fearless exposure of the errors of an established Churc~
astonish the world with the corruption which be ~xhibil.,
where all was supposed to be perfection; a NE\V'roN1 at..
&raated by the simple fall of an apple, inquires for its
hiddoo cause, and discovers a theory by whi£h the lll9V~
ments of the entire solar system may be e.xplained1 ttm.
forming an important era in the history of r:~cience.
FBEDERic:a:: ANTHONY MESMER, a Physeian of high
repute, in Germany, about the year 1750; was the fint 1vheo
reduced the principles of Animal Magnetism to a system.-
A keen observer of human nature, he noticed with deep
interest the varied operations of the human mind, and afuil'
numerous experiments, he came to the conclusion that a
phenomena existed, hitherto unexplained# which, when fnllj
understood, must unravel much· of the mys&ery that .,.
shrouded the operations of the human mind.
.. On 1irst promulgating his aoeuines, he was assail~ .-ltb
&he most biUer malignity, and fiendish persecution. He wu
alaudered ; his views misrepresented ; 4iriven ftom city ..
4:ity, and at length, throurh fear Gf starva&i<m, eompeli:M to
leave.tbf Genuan dominions. Be aluma&ely made ~- 1rfl'/
to P~st and ea&ablishi~ himself. ia the Fref!CIIl capiedi,
~lallly. obalkloaed i~avtitiga~ uuJ wiSileul '*tdlrtw
delianee at his eiHIDiea. Havin8' taken t& \lold a MaJMJ1die·
o191t1zed by Coogle
• .AJfUUL JUOJfKTISJI.
attention o( the 'moet distinguished men of France wu at.
tracted to it, who, upon investigation, became convinCed of
its reality, and zealously sustained its principles.
The boldness of MESKER, in advocating his new doc-
trines, also aroused the French Academy, who instituted, Ia
1784, an inquiry, under the direction of Louis XVI., ia
relation to its atledged facts and phenomena. With the
Committee appointed by the Academy, Dr. Fa.ANKLIN, tbeD
the American Minister at the Court of France, was ...,.
eiated.
A deep eeated jealousy existed in reference to the new
tu~t, and it was feared that if it were allowed the sanction ·
ofacientific men, that it would wholly supplant the Medical
Faculty. The same spirit and prejudice existed in the mindl
of that leamea Committee, which we find prevalent among
many o( the Faculty of the present day.
It is, and ever has been exceedingly popular with this
class, to denounce every system of practice as quackery, no
matter how wonderful have been the results, or important
the facts, provided they were not obtained through the coune
usually prescribed, and bear upon the face of it, the broad
eeal of the teamed Faculty, in solemn conclave assembled.
In onter that the reader may form an estimnte of the im.
partiality and liberality of the Committee, before the inves-
tigation, it may be well to state that the Academy, of which
they were the organs, bad previously decreed that "No
:Physician shall declare himself a partisan of Animal Mag-
nelism, under penalty of being struck from the list of mem-
bers."
And in order to show the competency of the Committee,
it may be well to state that but few years before they had
condemned inoculation as " murderous," " criminal," and
.,magical," and also decreed that Peruvian bark, (now in
eommon use, and deemed an important auxUary in medi-
oiae,) could not be used in the regular praetice.-A variety
Gf·aperiment~ were perfOrmed befOre the Commi....-, by ooe
of the dilciplee of Jb101ia, and at lelll*h a NpGrt ,..
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL .MAGNETISM, 9
ushered into the world unfavorable to the science. This
report however admits the facts, but denies the agent, by
which it is alleged they are produced. It was asserted by
MESME:a. and his disciples that the phenomena was the
result of a fluid; relative to the existence of this fluid the
Committee made the principal part of their inquiries, instead
of .the facts, and finally concluded that the singular results
they had witnessed, were wholly to be attributed to the influ-
ence of the imagination. Why 1 Because they could not
see, taste, or touch it. So ridiculous a reason, it would
seem almost impossible for it to gain any credence among
men professedly scientific. Had the Committee any belief
in the existence of the mind or not 1 What evidence had
they of it1 They could neither see it, touch it, nor taste it.
·The same argument would apply with equal force against
.the admitted fact that the magnetic needle points toward
the north. Some unknown influence draws if; yet who but
the Almighty knows what that agent is 'J Who has ever
felt it, or seen it1 And yet no one will deny that it is the
case.
So important has this report been considered, that from
that day to this, it has been quoted as a kind of oracle to
disprove the truth of Animal Magnetism, and for better effect
upon American ears, Dr. FRANKLIN is forced in to bear his.
evidence against it. Very few who spCak of this report
know any thing in reference to it ; few know that this cele-
brated philosopher, of all the Committee, witnessed the few-
est exper4uents, having been prevented by ill health from
attending its sessions, while that part of the Committee who
examin~ most assiduously the facts presented, among wqom
was JussxEu, one of the most eminent philosophers of his
age, not only refused to sign that report, but made a counter
one, favorable to the claims of Animal Magnetism.
But we can present as strong an array of names as those
who composed the Committee, all of whom are practisers
and full believers in Anim!ll Magnetism. CuviER, I..A.PLAc~,
AMPUlE, OB.VILA, BosTAU1 GEORGET, Baouss.&ls, and a
2
o191t1zed by Coogle
10 Al'fiMAL MAGNETISM,
host of others in France, Dr. ELLIOTSON in England,
CoLQUBOVN in Scotland, Ht18SELAND, MARCANo, WOLP-
ERT, &c., in Germany, MEtPER in Holland, and many
gentlemen, (professional and others,) in our own country,
who are too enlightened to be deceived, and too honest to
deceive others, are only a few of those whose names may be
an otfset to those who suppose all the science the world ever
knew, or can know, to be wrapped up in the French Com-
Dli~ and Dr. FRANKLIN.
But for the sake of argument, admit that Dr. FR.ANKLI!t
was a philosopher superior in intellect to all and each of
those whom we have r_Jamed. Are we prepared to adopt all
the Doctor's opinions 1 It is well known that he was *
Deist, at least at one period of his life. Are we prepared to
take his authority and disbelive revelation 1 He did "snatch
fire from heaven, and break the tyrant's sceptre i" but be
shall not destroy religious belief, nor our convictions result·
ing frotn facts.
But the adverse report of the French Academy, was far
from preventing an investigation of this subject. Then as
now, there were minds which could not be hemmed in,
~thin the boundaries of Academies, and soon a belief in
Anitnal Magnetism becatne almoet universal throughout
Franee. In 1825, public opinion having so strongly set in
its favor, a new Committee was appointed to ex~~~nine into,
and report upon the subject. As before, they were strongly
opposed to MESMER and his doctrines, but being ttleD of
science and honor, they determined to give the subject an
in'festigation worthy of its merits, and according to the facts.
In consequence, the repott was nearly the reverse of the
previous one. The Committee spent &e'fetal years in its
in'testigation, •itn~d all the facts that eould be brought
before them, and frotn that time Animal Magnetism 'W'a&
plaeed befo~ the Ftench nation as a science, possessing
gteat interest, and fully desemng the credence and inve8U..
gation of the learnM "PUblic. This ga•e the stndy of Ani-
tbal Magn~tism t1 new impulse, and the current of publie
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MA.GNI!:TISM. 11
opinion began rapidly to set in its favor. It was from this
- ·period, considered by the learned, as an important addition
to physiology. , It presented new ideas to the mind of the
student, threw light upon many points in physiological
subjects, before involved in darkness, and was the dawning
ofa new era in mental philosophy. It also formed a new
crisis in psychological investigations, presenting startling
views to the philosophical inquirer ; the vindictive oppo-
sition of an ignorant priesthood was stifled, and from that
time the then universally received opinion in France, that
death was an eternal sleep, that the human frame contained
no immortal spirit to lighten ~pits path through the revolv-
ing ages of eternity, received a wound which rendered that
opinion as unpopular, as it before had been popular.
The change in public opinion after this report was very
great. Many works issued from the press, in favor of
Animal Magnetism, and from the ablest pens in the nation.
Nor was a beliefin it confined to France, its doctrines spread
throughout Germany, Holland, and many other pans of
. Europe. Numerous physicians adopted its principles, and
made use of it in their practice. Ouv1ER1 LAPLAOE1 Du-
GALD STEWART, and Dr. ELLIOTSON, are strong advoeates
of it. They have introduced it into their extensive practice,
with great success. Success has ahlo attended its introduc-
tion into the hospitals of Paris, and London, and in Berlin,
where the learned Dr. KLUGE, fills the station of Professor
of Animal Magnetism.
Although MESMER was the first to reduce it to a selenee,
there can scarcely be a doubt, that the power now known
by the name of Animal Magnetism, has existed for ages.
History gives to us well authenticated eases, in which .by
·some extraordinary means, wonderful effects were produced
upon the human system, by some tOuch, a powerful malady
was removed in a manner inexplicable by any known laws.
Superstition, ever busy in operating upon the mind, at once
attributed this influence to 80Dle miraculous power imparted
to the individual, and hence arose a very numerous class of
o191t1zed by Coogle
12 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
persons, who were designated by the title of Sorcerers,
Magicians, or Wise-men.
The wonderful deeds of these men, requires a great tax
upon our credulity to credit. Yet ,they come to us sus-
tained by so much evidence, we cannot fail to believe them.
Professed religious teachers have controlled the m•nds of
their followers, by pretended miracles; extraordinary events
emanating from the monks, the marvellous revelations from
invoked saints, in the cure of mitladies, and in exorcism of
evil spirits, are all so many means resorted too by the priest-
hood to operate upon the minds of their ignorant and super-
stitious admirers ; but which are at once explained upon the
principle of Animal Magnetism, as advocated by MEsMER,
and supported by his followers. Whether the New-England
witches, who are described by INcREASE MATHER, as those
who "they did mutually with the·touch cure each other, and
foretold when another fit was coming, and it happened
accordingly ; their eyes in their fits were fast closed,"
are those which may be explained or not, is left to the
reader io determine.
It will be easily seen in what way the world has been
deceived by miracle manufacturers, and what are the occult
principle, and practice through which most of the veritable
saints recorded in the Calendar have been manufactured.
In fact, says an able writer, Animal Magnetism is a natural
cause, which explains all the effect formerly attributed to
magic and witchcraft ; as electricity explains the thunder;
as astronomy explains the appearance of the comets ; as a
knowledge of the different laws of nature explains all the
phenomena, which in times of ignorance were ascribed to
supernatural agents.
That mnn possesses a mysterious power over the feelings,
thoughts, and even the operations of his fellow man, a
power which may be exerted for evil or good, cannot for a
moment be doubted, and that this influence may be ex-
plained by the operations of Animal Magnetism, is as capa-
ble of demonstration, as the fact that such power exists. ,
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 13
We now pass to the different plnns and principles of
Magnetisers.•
The course persued by M~:SMER1 which we will first
allude too, was very complicated, although it afforded evi-
dence of great ingenuity, yet much of it was useless. His
belief was that the Magnetic fluid pervaded all space, there-
fore a complex apparatus was necessary to collect it, and
direct a stream of it upon the patient, and thus he was
enabled to cure diseases. Now when it is believed, that all
the astonishing effects of Animal Magnetism, are produce'd
by the operation of the mind of one individual upon the ·
nervous fluid of another, or by an actual transfer of the same
influence upon the person Magnetised, it will be interesting
to know how MEsMER produced the same result, without
being conscious of the character of his operations.
W.e copy an account of it from the first report of the
Academy. In the middle of a large room, was placed a large
tub, two or three feet in height, furnished with a lid in
two parts. This lid was perforated with holes, through
which were inserted several iron rods. 1'he inside of the
tub was filled with bottles of water, which he had Magnet-
ised. These bottles were placed so that the first row were
turned towards the centre ofthe_tub, and the next row in an
opposite direction; the tub was then filled with water, and
to this a quantity of iron filings, pounded glass, sulphur, &c.,
was occasionally added. The individuals to be Magnetised
then stood round the tub, and applied the it:on rods to the
affected parts of the body, (for it was only for the curing of
diseases that he applied it,) or encircled themselves with a
hoop suspended for that purpose. Sometimes they joined
hands with each other and formed a chain. The Magnet-
iser then held an iron rod which he moved before the body
of the patient, for the purpose of directing at will, the course
of the Magnetic fluid. 'l'he whole apparatus was supposed
to facilitate the circulation of the fluid.
• For the arrangement and abridgment of tbeae plan•, we are. indebted to a
little work published in Philadelphia, by a pbyoician.
o191t1zed by Coogle
14 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
A person was employed to play upon some sweet musical
instrument; as it was thought that the Magnetic fi11id was
propagated by sound. Although this was supposed to be an
universal fiuid, yet the Magnetiser was supposed to possess
a certain portion, which he could impart by means of a rod,
or by motion of his outstretched fingers. In addition to
these motions, were also certain slight touchings on the
hypochondria, epigastric region, or other portions of the
body.
The following directions were given by MESMER, tor
using Magnetism:
In order to Magnetise the patient, you must place youraelf
opposite to him with your back turned toward the north,
and draw your own, close against his feet, you must then
place without pressure, both of your thumbs on the pit ofthe
atomach, and stretch your fingers toward the hypochondria,
(the part of each side of the body where the short ribs are
found.) It also facilitates the. operation occasionally to
move the fingers on the sides, especially in the region ofthe
spleen. The next thing was to endeavor to put the
Magnetic fiuid in equilibrium, in every part of the body.
This might be done by presenting the index finger of the
right hand, at the summit of the head on the left side, and
then drawing it down the face to the breast, and over the
lower extremities. An iron rod will answer the same pur-
pose as the finger. -
Strange as this process may seem, yet it was regarded aa
absolutely essential to a successful operation. The most
wonderful results were produced ; local diseases of long
standing were removed ; the most acute pain would vanish
in an .instant, and joy light up the countenance of the sad
su11'erer. The different effects upon different individuals
were not the least interesting to the philosophical beholder ;
exaltation of the mind; palpitation of the heart; ringing in
the ears were not uncommon.
Sometimes the most violent convulsions were exhibited,
which was supposed by MESMER to be the effort of nature to
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 15
etl'eet a cure ; but a simple move of the hand before the body
of the patient, like the wand of the magician, would at once
remove·them. The different emotions of love and hatred,
immoderate laughter, and melting tears were strikingly ex·
hibited. But the tremendous influence exercised over them,
was the most surprising part. A simple effort of the will
was a sovereign balm, and would command love, or hatred,
or throw them into the most violent convulsions, or at once
calm them from excitement. Such was the rude method
employed by the celebrated MESMER, whose name will live
through all time, as the discoverer of one of the most won-
derful phenomena the world ever knew. Knowing the
effect produced, he attributed the influence which he mainly
used by the exercise of his own will, to the apparatus above
described. But the investigations of after years, clearly show ·
that such a course was needless, and that a simpler process
would produce the same astonishing results. To DELEUZE,
a French Magnetiser, we are indebted for the fullest doc-
trines of the science, as now believed and practised. Some
extracts from his work will here be given as the best expo-
sition of the principles now known in Magnetising.
1. " Man has the faculty of exercising over his fellow
men, a salutary influence in directing toward them, by his
will, the vital principle.
2. "The name of .Magnetism has been given to this fae..
ulty ; it is an extension of the power which all living beings
have of acting upon those who are submitted to their will.
3. "We perceive this faculty only by its results, and we
ma1re no use ofit, except so far as we will to use it.
4. " The first condition of action then is to exercise the
will.
6. " .AJJ we cannot comprehend how a body can act upon
another at a distance, without there being some thing to es-
tablish a communication between them, we suppose that a ·
substance emanates from him who Magnetises, and is con-
veyed to the person Magnetised, in the direction given it by
the will. The substance which sustains life in us, we ean
o191t1zed by Coogle
16 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
the magnetic duid. The nature of this fluid is unknown ;
even its existence has not been demonstrated ; but every
thing occurs as if it did exist, and that warrants us in ad-
mitting it, while we are indicating the means of employing
Magnetism.
6. " Belief is necessary to accomplish our purpose ; with-
out it we have no confidence, which is absolutely essential
to success.
7. "In order that one individual should act upon another,
there must exist between them a moral and physical sym-
pathy, as there is between all the members of an animated
body, and when this sympathy is produced between two in-·
dividuals, we say they arc in communication.
8. " Thus the first condition of Magnetising is the will ;
the second is the confidence which the Magnetiser has in his
own powers; the third is benevolence, or the desire ofdoing
good. One of these qualities may supply the others to a
certain extent, but to have the action at the same time ener-
getic and salutary, the three conditions must be united.
9. " Direct communication between persons is not abso.
lutely necessary to the transf~r of the Magnetic duid, for
water, food, and other bodies may be charged with the duid,
and employed to convey it to the person for whom the Mag-
netiser expressly designs it.
10. "Magnetism,or the action ofMagnetism springs from
three things; first, the will to act; second, a sign, the ex-
pression of that will ; third, confidence in the means em"
ployed. If the desire of doing good be not united to the
will to act, there will be some effects, but these effects will •
be irregular.
_
11. " The faculty of Magnetising exists in all persons ;
but all do not possess it in the same degree. The difference
is caused by the moral and intellectual superiority of some ·
over others. Among the moral qualities are confidence in
ones own power, energy of will, the power of concentrating
the will and attention upon one object for a long time, be-
nevolence, moral courage sufficient to enable one to remain
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 17
calm in the midst of the most alarming crisis, disinterested·
ness which makes one forget himself, and devote himself to
the being whom he attends, and which banishes vanity, and_
even curiosity. Of the physical qualifications, the ·first is
good he~lth; the next is a peculiar power, of which we can
not recognise its full force and energy, without a trial of it.
"These may be increased by exercise, bodily and mental,
and when an individual combines all these qualifications,
they possess the Magnetic power to a great extent.
12. "Although the Magnetic fluid escapes from all parts
of the body, and the will may direct it any where, yet the
hands and eyes are of use in directing the current deter-
mined by the will. The word which indicates our will can
often exert an action, when the communication is_well estalr
lished.
13. " Magnetism generally produces no influence .upon
persons in health. The same man who was insensible to it
in a slate of good health, will experience the effects of it
when ill. There are diseases in which the action of Mag-
netism is not perceived; there are others in which it is evi-
dent. We do not yet know enough of it to determine the
cause of these anomalies, nor to pronounce beforehand,
whether Magnetism will or will not act. We have only
certain probabilities in regard to it ; but that should not
create an objection to the reality of Magnetism, since at least
three fourths of the patients feel the etftlcts of it.
14. a Whatever vital energy or Magnetic fluid is con-
veyed to the patient by the Magnetiser, is lost by the latter,
and if the sessions be continued too long, or be too frequently
repeated, he 'may become very much exhausted by this loss.
The weakness sometimes felt by the Magnetiser, is not pro.
duced by the motions, and the exertion he uses, but by the
dow.of the fluid from him to his patient.
" Generally speaking, every one in good health, and not
enfeebled by age, might undertake a single patient in a df\Y,
and give him a sitting of an hour, but no more without great
injury.
3
o191t1zed by Coogle
18 -'.NIMAL MAGNETISM.
15. " Confidence on the part of the person Magnetised,
is not necessary to success.
16. " The choice of a particular process is not necesll8l)'
to give direction to the action of Magnetism. But it is best
to choose, and follow some one method, so as never to be
perplexed, and compelled while acting to draw off the atten-
tion, in order to decide what motion it is most proper to make.
17. ''It is very dangerous to interrupt a crisis, however
alarming,it may be, and we should never attempt to act un-
less we are secured against all interruptions fro-
m our own
affairs, the person Magnetised, or his friends.
18. 11 Before undertaking a Magnetic treatment, the Mag-
netiser ought to examine himself. He ought to ask himself -
whether be can continue it, and whether the patient or those
who have influence over him, will put any obstacle in the
way. . He ought not undertake it if he feels any repugnance,
or if he fears to eatch the disease. To act efficaciously, he
should feel himself drawn toward the person who requires
his oare, take interest in him, and have the desire and hope
of euring, or at least relieving him. As soon as he has
decided, which he should never do lightly, he ought to eon-
eider whom he Magnetise& as his brother-as his friend; he
should be so devoted to him as not to perceive the sacrifices
that he imposes upon himself. Any other consideration,
any other motiv~ than the desire of doing good, ought not to
induce him to undertake a treatment.
19. ''The faculty of Magnetising, or that of doing good
to our fellow creatures by the influence Qf th4 will, by the
«))mmunication of the principle that sustains our health and
life, being the most delightful and precious that God hu
given to man, he ought to regard the_employment of Mag-
netism as a religious act, which demands the greatest self-
collectedness, and the greatest purity of intention. Heqce it
is a sort of profanation to Magnetise for amusement, through
curiosity, or the desire of displaying singular effects. Th~y
who demand experiments to see a spectacle, know not what
o191t1zed by Goo le
J.NIMAL MA.ONJi:TISM. 19
tney demand ; but the Magnetiser ought to know it, to re-
spect himself, and to preserve his dignity."
These are the gener~l principles which have been adopted
by Magnetisers in producing their astonishing results; prin-
ciples .which must be followed in order to produce the ·Mag-
netic state.
We conclude this chapter by briefly stating that we believe
that this power is possessed to~ certain extent by all living
creatures, and is that power by which a kind of induence is
exerted dift"erent from that which usually is exerted through
the ordinary and distributed organs of the senses, such as
the eye, the ear, &c.; that this power is the action of one
miad upon another, so as to influence it. It is the same in-
iuence which rivets ·the attention to the orator, while pol'·
traying some thrilling sketch, which enables him to control
the feelings and passions of his audience, and by a single
word or wave of the hand, call up the alternate feelings of
joy or sadness.
We admire the sweet notes ofan accomplished musician ;
be is the centre of attraetion; and we are involuntarily at-
tracted to it. This power is exerted by and- through the
medium of the will common ofone individual, and operates,
(as i~t highly probable,) through a medium which may be
ealkld the nervous, (or which is the same, the Mapetic,.)
1luid,and whl&h is set in motion by the power of the wm of
the individual designing to call i~ into action. 'l'his mediiHil
is to the Del'~ous finid in its totality, what light is to the eye,
the atmosprutre to the other senses t 88 media. ootween the
illdividual.aad the external wo:dd. What this medium Is,
has not beea dearly ascertained; but it is supposed to belong·
to eleetricity, in some ofits f()rms, Magnetism or Gal-t&n:ism.
This medium is set in mocian by the direc~on ofthe will,
awl.when thus excited, i.a capable &f exciting similat emo-
tions- iD.. the mind of the individu:al acted upon;,,ud·eona&.
quently·of exciting the same ideM in the mind of ate·reei•
pient, which exists in the mind t?f the person settiag thia
medium into ac:ltiOD, and; heaee Clair-voyance,. or the power
o,9itized by Coogle
20 ANIK.lL llAGNitT18M.
of seeing and dese!ibing scenes at a distance or near, though
in positions not within the range of occular vision. Indi-
viduals, while in this state, (that state in which the external
sensitive system, is an inact\ve condition,) though under the
control of the will Qf the operator, nevertheless it is true,
than when left in an nndis.turbed condition, they are in a
state of high and exalted mental activity, and capable ofap-
preciating good and evil in their consequences, much more
acutely than in circumstances of ordinary life. This will
be better illustrated by an extract from DELEUZE, mentioned
in a former part of this chapter, while speaking of Magnetic
somnambulism, or Clairvoyance. 'When Magnetism results
in somnambulism, (which is not always the case,) the being
who is in this condition requires a prodigious extension in
the faculty of sensation; his eyes are shut, his ears are
closed ; yet he sees and hears better than any one awake.
He is under the will of the Magnetiser in regard to every
thing that cannot hurt him, and he does not feel contrary to
his ideas ofjustice and truth. He recovers his recollection of
things he had forgotten when awake. He expresses himself
with astonishing facility. When he awakes he forgets all.
The Magnetic somnambulist perceives innumerable relations
in all objects with an extreme rapidity, and in one minute
runs through a train of ideas, which to us require manv
hours. Time seems to vanish before him. Of all the dis-
coveries which have. excited attention, this gives us the
most insight into the nature and the faculties of man.'
As an illustration we may mention a ease which is embo-
died in the report of the French Academy, in which an in-
dividual was Magnetised in a short time. A bandage placed
over his eyes, and one of the gentlemen played a game of
cards with the Magnetised patient, and lost it. The indi-
vidual handled his cards with the greatest dexterity, and
without making any mistake. They attempted several times
in vain, to set him at fault, by taking away or ~banging
some of his cards.
The extent of this power will, however, be noticed more
at length in subsequent chaptera. ·
o191t1zed by Coogle
£NIMAL IIIAGNETISH. 21
CHAPTER III.
The operatiou and eJI'ecb of Animal Magnetism upon the eyatem, illutrated
by enraordinary caaea.
THE day has nearly passed, when the truth of the exist-
ence of the Magnetic state, is disputed among scientific
men. That there are individuals, who can effect ·certain tem-
peraments, has already been so alluded to, that any thoughts
in this part of our work upon it, would seem to be superflu:.
ous, and that we need not dwell, but at once pass to offer
a few thoughts upon the extent and advantages resulting
from it. Whether it may be made to subserve the cause of
.humanity, or whether so much evil may resuIt ofit, as to cast
into the shade the little good it may do. These are ques-
tions that require careful attention, and can only be deter-
mined by a particular reference to,the facts, some of which
will be detailed in the following pages.
In proof of the existence of an effect ofsome kind, we need
only refer the reader, in addition to what we:have already
stated, to some circumstances which are of almost every
day occurrence. Who is there that has not read of the
fascination of birds by serpents 1 An irresistable influence
draws the bird toward the venomous reptile, until be comes
within its reach and is destroyed. An instance was related
to the writer not long since, in which a serpent was exer-
cising this same influence upon a lad. When found by his
brother he was unable to speak, and was gradually :Irawing
near the snake. His brother speaking to him, endeavored to
arrest his attention, but it was of no avail, and was only
relieved by his putting an end to the existence of the
serpent.
This effect was undoubtedly produced through the agen"
ey of the eye of the serpent i how far the Magnetic influence
o1g1tized by Coogle
22 A.NJMAL MAGNETISM.
upon individuals may be produced by the same aid, is not
in our province to determine. That it produces a tremen-
dous influence no one can dispute. Anger is quelled before
its steady gaze, and even raving insanity becomes docile
before its sway.
In the language of another, "Men of energetic -character,
calculated for dominion, have always been remarkable for
the potency of their glances, and have been celebrated as
not only lords of the iron part, but also of the eagle eye.
•Few could endure the searchinggaze of NAPOLEON. The
glance of Dr. JoHNSON from under shaggy brows availed
no less than the eloquence of the sage's tongue." TowN-
SHEND mentions the case of Dr. PARR, who was very proud
ofthe influence of hiS' eye, and who once boasted of having
BaYed the nation by it, PITT he dedared was about to
bring forward some disastrous measure, when he baring
preTious knowledge of his intentions, repaired to the house
ofCommons. "I fixed," said he, "my eye upon PITT, I gave
him one of my looks and he could not utter a word. He
rose, stammered, and sat down again, and there I kept him
until another member got the door, and so the meastlre
when brought forward was nugatory~ Yes, I think I may
say, that my eye saved the nation." In fact PARR Magnefi..
ised PITT. That the eye is an' important ~nt in produ-
eiDg the effect of Animal Magnetism, we trunk these cir-
enmstances will be snffi.eient to show.
The nest query is, the extent to which this. agent may be
eanied. This depends upon the constitution and tempera-
mem of the individuals· ~erated. upon, as well as the
physi.eal and moral eharacter of the operator. The~· are
2!8Veral degrees tc) this in:ftuence. Some are only affueted
with emotions of delight, while a fun cOI'lsciousness ofevery
thing passing around is retained. The mind il acei.ve·and
if charged, the usnal organs of sense are qtri:ckemd
some are rendered wholly insensible to-every thing, aftd the
most violent pain iafiicted upon.> themiwill not diSturb·tltem
o191t1zed by Coogle
.ANIMAL MAOIIETISM. 23
the least. This effect is very·common and has been tested
in numerous ways.
BARON DuPOTET, at the request of some incredulous
physic!ans of Paris, went to one of the hospitals in Paris
to perform some experiments for their satisfaction. Among
the means resorted to, to test the insensibility of the patient,
the nostrils were tickled with feathers, ~d smoke was intro-
duced into them, and their skin was bruised by pinching
till the blood came, and the feet of one patient were placed
in a hot infusion of mustard seed, without producing the
slightest change of countenance.
Dr. RoBOUM of the same hospital, reports a ease, in
which the patient was threatened that he should be burned
with moxa, (a slow fire applied to the part,) if he should
suffer himself to go to sleep. He was however Magnetised,
when the moxa was applied on the front of the right thigh,
producing an eschar nearly an inch and a half in length
and an inch in breadth. The subject showed no sign of
pain, neither was the pulse in the least quickened until
he was roused from the Magnetic sleep. Another case is
mentioned by the same Doctor, where a female patient was
Magnetised, and while in the Magnetic sleep, agaric, one of
the most pungent substances known, was burned under her
nose, but not the slightest feeling was ·manifested till the
, Magnetic influence was dissipated. In all these cases,
although no pain was suffered at the time, yet afterward
they were in the most inten&e agony.
M. HoussoN, President of the Academy of Medicine in '-
Paris, states that he has seen a bottle, containing several
ounces of concantrated ammonia, held for five,.ten or fifteen
minutes under the nose of the sleeper, without the slightest
effect. Dr. BERTRAND saw forty or fifty pins thrusted
simultaneously into the body of a somnambulist while
singing, without causing the least appreciable alteration in
the voice.
. In the tenth volume of the Bibliotheque de Medicine, there
is an_account of a lady, who when in a Magnetic state, was
o,9itized by Coogle
24 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
barbarously whipped over the bare shoulders, without effect,
and once most savagely had her back smeared with honey,
and was then exposed to the stinging of bees, but she felt
nothing till she was awakened, when of course she suffered
the most acute agony.
Such experiments almost make the blood boil at the reci-
tal; but the incredulity of the French physicians, in the
earlier stages of the science, led them to adopt any means
which their passions might dictate, for the purpose-of testing
it.
- But means have been empfoyed, of practical utility, more
marked than those alluded to above, which will be treated
on in a subsequent part ofthis work.
Again, there are those who, while they exhibit all this
phenomena, and appear to be in a good Magnetic condi-
tion, retain all their consciousness, and whe~ any pain is
inflicted upon them, feel it in all its acuteness, yet are
\Nlable to make it known, or any resistance. An instance
'of the kind will better illustrate the condition. In a town
in the State of New-York, which we visited in the autum of
1842, several individuals called upon us to converse upon
the subject of Animal Magnetism. Considerable pains were
taken to assure us of their extreme scepticism ; of their full
belief that it was one of the humbugs of the age ; but desired
to be satisfied. We proposed to one of the company that he
should submit to the operation. He readily consented. After
an hour's trial, the young man exhibited all the appearance
of being Magnetised. His sceptical companions, believing
he was deceiving, endeavored by all means in their power
to arouse him. Such as tickling the nostrils, thrusting pins
into his body, &c., all of which were of no avail. He was
relieved from the Magnetic influence. His sensations were
described as follows : That he was fully conscious of every
thing that was done to him, but. was incapable of resistance ;
the pain was as acute as while awake, and he made efforts
to speak to us, desiring us to have them desist, but every
effort was unavailing.
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 25
Another singular fact in his case was, that while in this
state, be was conscious of all the suffering which the Mag-
netiser endured, phenomena which all individuals fully in
the Magnetic state will exhibit.
The last degree which we shall allude to, is one in which
Magnetic somnambulism is produced in all its interesting
details. ' ·
The individual iu this instance, when Magnetised, be-
comes lost to the world around, and the being in part, is
identified with that of the Magnetiser. 'l'he mind with one
comprehensive grasp takes in correct images of all scenes,
whether withiil the range of occular vision or not. At first
you discover au attraction between different parts of the
body of the Magnetiser and patient; for instance, by apply-
ing the hand of the former to the latter, they will readily
follow, or the head, to the head in the same manner that
the magnet attracts a piece of steel, iron filings, or the like,
and .
this will be exhibited while the individual is unconscious
of such experiments being performed. The patient will
also exhibit entire obedience to the will of*e operator.
Without any contact, the body may be moved into any
position desired; may be caused to walk, to fold the arms,
touch the face or ear, or kneel down in the attitude of prayer,
with ,the saine apparent ease as when awake.
· Another interesting featu):'e in the Magnetic somnambulist,
is their power of description, which cannot be better de-
scribed than in the language of M. HussoN, a French man.
" The somnambulist has his eyes closed. He neither sees
with his eyes, nor hears with his ears ; yet he sees and hears
better than a waking person. He sees and hears only those
with whom he is in relation. He sees only that at which he
looks, and he usually looks at those objects only to which '
his attention is directed. He is submissive to the will ofthe
Magnetiser in all things which cannot injure himself, and in
all, that does not oppose his own ideas of justice and truth.
H~ $008, or rather he has a perception of the interior of his
own body, _
and that of o~ers ; but he usually remarks those
4
o191t1zed by Coogle
J
•
"ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
parts only, which are not in a natural state, and which dis-
turb the harmony of it. He recalls to his memory things
which he had forgotten in his waking state. He has pro-
VISions and presentiments which may be erroneous in
several circumstances, and which may be limited in their
extent. He expresses himself with surprising facility. He
is not free from vanity. He becomes more accurate by de-
grees, for a certain time, if guided with discretion, but if ill
ditecteJ, he goes astray. When returned to his natural con-
dition, he entirely loses the recollection of all the ideas and
sensations he had during the state ofsomnambulism, so that
these two states are as ent!rely strangers to each other, as
if the somuamuulist and the waking person were too differ-
ent persons." ·
No matter where objects are situated; whether in the
present, past or future: time vanishes before them, and they
can readily percei\'e objects wherever they are. They will
as teadily perceive things held behind the head as before it,
and not unfrequently are able to read with the same facility
when the book is held behind the head as before the face.
The f<>llowing statement, illush;ative of these singular phe-
nomenon, \tras published in the Salem Gazette in 1836:-
" Dr. B--·, of Providence, operated upon a young lady
during the period of Magnetic sleep, wh6 could tell correctly
the time by b. watch, though enveloped in .a cloth, and at
the stttne time having a bandage over her eyes. The doctor
had a patient sick, ns was believed of liver complaint, iltld
bade the somnambulist go in spirit to the man's honse, (it
being one.folirth of B mile distant.)· Arrived, she, at the
doctor'S request, described the house, that there might be no
mistake, nttd then entered. ' What do you see?' asked the
doctor. cA man sick.' 1 I wish you to tell me what ailsllim.
Fitst IO<ik at his head ; is that well 11 'Yes.' 'Haw do
yM khow'1' ' Because it 1Mks like yours, or lilly' other one
who is well.' 'Is the liver or heart so well ?' 'Yes.' •Do
you see ntly thittg wroiig '1' 'Yes, there is ali enlargement
Of tHe stJleen.' Several questions were thett i'Ut1 to eanfltse
o191t1zed by Coogle
4NIM4L 1\J.\GNETISIIL 27
her, and also to ascertain if she knew what the spleen Wll$1
and where situated: to all which she gave correct answers.
In four days the patient died ; a post mortem exomination
was instituded; all the physicians in the city were present,
to whom the stoxry of the girl was narr~ted before com-
mencing operations, and they were requested to examine the
body, to see if they could discover the diseased spleen from
external observation. They, sixteen in number, declared
with one voice they could not. The body was then opened,
and, to the astonishment of all present, the girl was right;
the spleen weighed fifty-seven ounces ! its usual weight
being from four to six: ounces."
This is a strong case, and suggests some ideas which will
be advanced in a subsequent part of this work, relative to
~he important aid which physicians may derive from Mag-
netic somnambulists.
The writer of this, having been engaged in experimenting
for some years, will be pardoned for introducing a few of his
numerous cases, to illustrate the subject under considera-
tiop.
In the autunin of 1841, being in Philadelphia, a young
lady was thrown in the Magnetic state, After satisfying
ourselves that she was in an uunatural state, a bandage was
placed upon her eyes, and cotton inserted beneath it, to pre-
vent the possibility of her seeing. We then commenced con-
versation with her, She appeared to understand our queries,
and answered uS-promptly. A pair ofbr~ snuffers was then
placed in our hands, standing about six feet behind her. We
asked her what we had. She answered, '' lt is long, made
of br8$s1 ,and is a pair of squffers." A bonnet was then plU
upon our head. She laughed heartily, exclaiming "How
odd you l~k. Ta.ke that old bonnet off. Miss P-,'' (thQ
name of the young lady to whom it belonged,} "won't
thank you for exposing it." A gentleman then slipped into
our hand a paper, on which was a request, that, by a simple
c:~ft'ort of the will, we woul<J·cause her to rai$e her hands in
tbe attitude of prayer. No sooner was it attempted than ~t
o191t1zed by Coogle
28 ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
was done. Without any Ill()vement of our body or lips, she
would readily converse with any individual whom we willed
her to. We could make her describe any house, its location,
ic;c., without putting to her a question, except through the
will. Several persons came into the room after she was
M&gnetised. She at once told the number. After attempting
various experiments similar to the above, with like results, a
piece of tobacco was put into our mouth, when the lady
assumed the appearance of the greatest possible disgust, nnd
was loud in her denunciations of " nasty tobacco.'' Snuffwas
was likewise given us, when the subject commenced sneeZ-
ing, nor did she cease, until we had fully relieved our nostrils
from the odious stuff. Candy was then tasted, and the lady
smacked her lips, as if she thought it a luxury. Pain was
also inflicted upon us, in different parts of the body, when
the lady, simultaneously, manifested pain in the same part
in which we suffered. These experiments were continued
an hour and a half, without at all wearying the patient, when
she was aroused from the Magnetic sleep.
The following case, which we find in the Pittsburgh
Chronicle, contains an interesting account of some experi-
ments attempted by two incredulous persons, at the request
of the writer of this work, when at Pittsburgh, in the spring
of 1842:-
"A young lady, who bad been Magnetised several times
by the writer, was the subject of the Mesmeriser's passes.
She was at this time thrown into the Mesmeric state by a
young merchant of this city, (Pittsburgh,) who was anxious
of testing the alleged theory, that all persons possessed the
Mesmeric influence in a greater or less degree. The patient
exhibited the usual symptoms consequent upon the manipu-
lations, in about fifteen minutes. Doring the operation,
tears streamed from her eyes ; the muscles of the arJDS be-
came exceedingly rigid, as much so as in catalepsy ; the
hand looked white and bloodless, and felt very cold ; a
spasmodic contraction of the muscles about the mouth took
place ; in fine, the whole appearance indicated an ·exceed-
oigit,zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ingly unnatural condition, and one which a person could
scarcely conceive to be assumed. '!'here were but four per-
sons in the room when she was thrown into this state.
Shortly after her eyes had been closely bandaged, a negro
servant entered : she was asked the number of persons in
the room ; the answer was five. She was asked if th~re was
any difference in the appearance of the persons. She said
there was a difference; that one was dark, his hair black, but
not very long, and had on a tight roundabout, which was
correct, in every particular. The servant was then seated,
and a poker placed in his bands: she was questioned relative
to these facts, and she answered that be was sitting, and had
some thing in his bands, long and round, and for stirring the
fire. A black cloak was then thrown over his shoulders,
'Which she correctlydescribed. The Magnetiser then stepped
behind her a few paces, and willed her to raise her right arm,
which she did. A candle was then held up behind her back :
she said it was to see with. She was then asked what the
Mesmeriser held in his hand : the answer was, that it was
white and yellow, to keep time with, and ~dded, distinctly,
"a watch." It was a gold watch with a silver face. She
was required to tell the time : she answeredl without hesita-
tion, "Twenty-five minutes of nine," which was the exact
time. The Magnetiser's hair was then pulled : she com~
plained of some one pulling her hair. His side was then
pinched : she complained of her side, and manifested symp-
toms of pain. He tasted an apple : she moved her lips, as
though she was eating, and said it tasted tart, like an apple.
Some Cayenne pepper was then put in his mouth : she said
it puckered her mouth, and smarted. The Magnetiser then
asked her to walk with him, and took her in an imaginary
walk with him to the United States Hotel: she said that
she saw a large' brick house, with a stoop in front, (cor-
rect.) He now moved away from the house, and asked her
what she saw : she said she saw a long building with' holes
in it, that it was an aqueduct, and had deep water in it.
This was considered so remarkable, that she was requested
o191t1zed by Coogle
,
30 ANIMAL MAGNETIS)f,
to repeat it, several times, which she did distinctly. It was
correct. 'l'he Magnetiser then imagined himself in a steam
car : she said he was riding in something like a stage; that
it went very fast, and by steam. She was then placed in
communication with another individual, an eminent lawyer
of Pittsburgh, who took her in an imaginary visit to his room.
She described the bouse as along one, w:ith a stoop in front,
supported by columns, which was correct. She said thQ
room was small, looked like an office ; said there was a bed
on the right of the door, that it had curtains, which was cor-
rect. She then said she saw something in front of the door,
which was high, and had glass on the top part, looked dark
below, and had books on a shelf. It was a large dressing
glass, with a shelf below and books on it. She then described
something hanging against the wall : said it had a glass over
it) and looked pretty, and said there was a boy, dog and
flower upon it. It was the print of a child throwing a flower
at a dog in the water. She also fully described a closet, the
contents of a box, &c.
" These are the facts," continues the writer, "as they oc-
curred, and were noted down at the time, in the words of
the patient. No inferences will be drawn, or theories manu-
factured; it is inexplicable. There could be no collusjon.
and there was certainly no disposition on the p~rt of the
visitants to deceive themselves. It was done to satisfy them-
selves. They have seen and heard, and 'it is a'very obvious
principle,' says Chalmers,' although often forgot~n in the
pride of prejudice and controversy, that what has been seen
imd heard by one pair of human eyes, is ofsufficient fOrce &o
countenance all that has been reasoned or guessed at by a
thousand human understandings.' "
We copy the following frotn the Lancaster (Pa.) lntelli·
~near of June, 18(2. Although the statements contain~
in it are similar to the last, yet in the multitude of facts, we
shall perhaps arrive at some important truth in 'these hitherto
mysterious phenomena. The characters of the witn~
are such as to preclude any idea of imposition.
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL IIAGNKTIIII• 31
. "The undersigned, citizens of Lancaster, who were preeenc
at the experiments tried this morning, Friday June 2'4th, at
the house of JoHN L. THOMPSON Esq., of this city, by Mr.
C. P. JoHNSON, beg leave to state the result of the experi-
ments, as well for the benefit of those wh9 may doubt, as for
tho gratification of the public. The subject was a girl fif-
teen years ofage, living in Mr. Tso.MPso:s's famaly, who from
her associations, and the slender means within her reach to
acquire an education, knew positively nothiug about Mag-
netism. She had indeed, heard considerable talk in Mr.
THOMPSON's famUy, and took great delight in avowing her
want of faith in them, expressing at the same time a strong
wish to be Magnetised herself, which she repeatedly asserted
could not be done. This wish led to the experiment above
alluded to. The girl being seated in a rocking chair, Mr.
JoHNSON proceeded to apply the usual means to throw her
into the Magnetic sleep. Mter considerable time had elapsed1
say forty-tive minutes, during which she endeavored to resist
the Magnetic influence, by keeping her eyes open, she grad-
ually fell asleep, her eyes assuming a leaden dullness, and
finally: closing altogether. Mter some time, during which
the persons present began to believe she was only in a natu-
ral sleep, her arms were raised, and they remained in that
position. Mr.JoaNIION then put tobacco in his mouth when she
presented the appearance of great disgust. Mr. J;s. hair was
th~n pulled, when she \vrithed in contortions of apparently
great pain ; he was pricked, and the same result followed ;
ber band wns then pricked with a pin, and pinched, but she
gnve no signs of pain. Mr. JoaN80N then fixed his attention
upon· one of the persons present, whom she could not see,
when she stated the color of his dress correctly ; stated his
business, aJ?.d what WM his name, upon being a.Sked so to do.
The..saQle experiments with the same result were tried upon
another person. The experiments in ClairY'oyance, were
highly and astonishingly successful ; she had never see Phil-
adelphia, but on being taken there, as willed by Mr. JoHNSoN,
she described the United States Bank correctly, as a marble
o191t1zed by Coogle
32 ANIKAL M.A.GNETJSM.
building,etc. ; the' Girard College as an unfinished building,
she also described Ohestnut street nnd other public places.''
We here continue the article although it contains an account
of a subject, which we have not alluded to before, but to
which we shall devote a further chapter. '' It was in Phreno-
Magnetism, however, where the results were eminently sat-
isfactory; results which were considered as perfect, ashaving
been accomplished without any possible collusion, on a per-
son who perhaps never heard the name of Phrenology men-
tioned, and was at least decidedly ignorant of it. The or-
gans of mirth and wit being touched jointly, she laughed so
heartily, that the tears flooded down her cheeks, and then as
quick as thought upon the organ offear being touched, she
exchanged the expression into one of the greatest possible
alarm; the organ of tune caused her to sing ; the organ of
language induced very rapid, and tolerably distinct conver-
sation; the organ ofcombativeness likewise produced a great
expression of anger in the countenance. These results going
to establish, beyond dispute, the science of Phrenology and
Mesmerism, were so decided and positive as to astonish all
present. When she was aroused from her stupor, Mr. JoHN-
soN first dissipaied the influence from the face and brain,
leaving all the rest of the body Magnetised; her arms were
then raised, and on being told to Jet them down, she declared
her inability to do so, and they remained in that position
until removed by Mr. JoHNSON; on being told to get up, she
said she could not, as she could not move her feet, and it was
only when the influence was removed from her feet, that she
rose. The undersigned repeat that this subject was a person
entirely and unquestionably unacquainted with any thing
relating to the experiments performed upon her.
GEo. W. STEINM,AN JoHN W. FoRNEY,
P. CASSIDY, M.D. WM. B. FAHNESTOCK, M. D.
JAMES BooN, JoHN L. THOMPSON.
We have alluded to the fact, that many individuals when
under the Magnetic influence, will exhibit a variety of mo-
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 33
tions similar to those,of the Magnetiser ; it is also an inter-
esting fact that many whose susceptibility is very great, will
unconsciously mimic every motion and sound of the
M~onetiser. Sympathy not only in their case, exists in the
mind, but in every feeling of the body, if the one is labor-
ing under some disease, the other experiences the same
sensations; a sneeze causes the subject to exhibit the same
motions. Let the Magnetiser walk, and the patient imme-
diately does the same, taking precisely the same steps. An
interesting case is mentioned in TowNSHEND's Facts in
Mesmerism, which will better illustrate these remarks.
"ANNA M-,(a lady whom I have frequently Magnet-
ised,) in her Magnetic state mounted a staircase with me, in
order to visit an invalid lady of our party. I observed that
she ascended two stairs at a time, after a manner that bad
become familiar to me. At another time when I had a cold,
she, though free from such an affection when awake,
coughed in her sleep whenever I did." The following
extract from a register of Mesmeric proceedings, will also
confirm the above fact and remark.
c: The Magnetiser rubs his ,hands, and ANNA M-
immediately does the same. When the Magnetiser blows
his nose, the patient puts her hand up to hers, as ifdoing the
same thing. When-the former began to dance, the latter
did so too, imitating exactly the movements of her Magnet-
iser, and snapping her fingers as he did. He then having
turned from the patient who was sitting nt a table, took up a
pencil aud without her seeing him, made some strokes upon
paper. The patient took up another pencil which lay at
hand, and made similar strokes. Various artifices were
employed in theBf;l cases to deceive the subject, as for in-
stance, another individual in the same room would go
through with the same process, to prove that she was
guided by sound and not sympathy of motion. The p&-
tient was however not influenced, in the least.
" For the purpose, the writer continues of testing the
truth of the alleged phenomena, that the head of the
5
o191t1zed by Coogle
,
34. .ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Mesmerised person, will foJlow the hand of the Mesmeriser,
as iron does the loadstone, and in order to submit the phe-
nomena to the surest proof, bandaged the eyes of one of
my patients previously to Mngnetising him, and filled
with cotton every possible interstice, that might be left be-
tween the cheek and the handkerchief; in such a manner as
io convince every person who witnessed the experiment,
that for the patient to perceive by sight, .the motion of my
hand, was out of the question. As soon however as the indi-
vidual had been Magnetised, his head followed my hand
at the distance of two feet with unerring certainty. Did I
place it on the left side of the head, it instantly inclined on
that side~ was it in front, he bent forward to meet it ; was it
behind him1 he leaned back toward it, with what would
seem a painful and unnatural effect.
"Again 1 held my hand above his leg, immediately the
bmb was attracted upward. I continued to withdraw my
hand, and the leg was so much elevated as to form an aeute
angle with the body of the patient. Finally I ran quickly
away to the other end of the room, and the patient followed
me quickly and unerringly. I then tried to see what effect
the foot would have. With this thought I raised my foot1
not in any unusual manner, but as if I were laying one teg
over the other. The sole ofmy foot was then presented to
the patient. ·In a very short time she began to turn round
upon.her chair, so as nearly to fall in the fire. Struck with·
this oddity, 1 made the patient arise, and again presented my
foot, when she commenced a series of regular evolutions
from right to left, stopping always when she had half comple-
~c;l \he circle, with the bend and dip, like that of the Magnetic
needle, The experiment repeated always produced the same
result.
"Again when standing opposite to the patient, who was
in an upright position1 I began to turn around. She also
seemed forced to revolve, but in a direction contrary to
mine. lf I tutned from left to right, she turned from right
tP left, and vice 11ersa. The same experiments he tried also
o191t1zed by Coogle
'
ANIMAL MAQN£'1'11111.
upon other patients with the like result, excepteometimee
there was a repulsion in the foot."
These facts are not only matters of history, but are
daily occurrences in the history of every Magnetiser. It is
but few months since a young man was Magnetised by the
writer, who a short time afterward was summoned away
on business. After assuring him that we were about to leave
him for a short time, but that we would soon return to relieve
him, he burst int~ the most vehement crying, and said he
could not possibly let usgo. Entreaty wns, however, of no
avail, and the instant we started to leave him, he was thrown
into the most violent convulsions, and would endeavor to
follow us ; but the instant we returned and placed our hand
upon him, he would be calm and appear happy. We then
tried walking about the room, going over every article that
could be placed in our way. He, without hesitation fol'\
lowed, stepping in the same steps invariably. But all efforts
to leave him, in order to attend to our business, was wholly
unavailing, a.ud we were obliged to relieve him from the
Magnetic influence.
But the sympathetic motions of the body, are not the least
remarkable phenomena exhibited by the Magnetic somnam-
bulist. Indeed the exhibitions in this state only fill us with
emotions of wonder, and admiring the effect, we look in vain
for"the hidden cause.
The extraordinary scope of mind, which it gives the indi-
vidual, seems almost incredible. The patient will con-
verse with an intellectual power, which in the waking state
he would be incapable of. 1,he mind with ease, will dip deep
into fountains of science, drawing out its most interesting
and important material, will dJ.scuss with familiarity, some
abstruse subject, which the erudite scholar had given up in
despair, will, in fine at one grasp exhibit the research of
ages. Exercised judiciously, it may be made eminently.
useful in a moral and scientific point of view, since it tends
to elevate the mind above sensual and material objects. Im.
press upon the individual while in the Magnetic state, the
o191t1zed by Coogle
36 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
importance ofa well regulated life, the consequences ofcertain
actions, which perhaps had hitherto exercised a baleful in-
fluence over their lives, vice in its naked deformity, its in-
fluence on society, and its ultimate tenden~y, and a power is
f!Xerted upon them which will be a secret spring, operating
upon all their future life. Some imperceptible influence,
acts upon the mind, which wholly changes the current of
their thoughts and actions. The moral feelings in this state,
are in a high state of cultivation, the moral perceptions
unusually acute; falsehood and sport looked upon with feel-
ings of the deepest horror. In short, a sentiment pervades
the character which we do not find in actual life. ·
In a moral point of view, then the influence of Magnetism
is tremendous, and may be made subservient to the wisest,
and best of ends.
Scarcely' less valuable is it, as an auxiliary in science.
The acute discernment, the nice discrimination, together
with the intellectual power manifested, cannot fail to make
it useful in explaining much of the arena of nature, of
unfolding many ofthe mysterious phenomena of mind, which
when fully understood, can not but exercise a beneficial in-
fluence upon mankind.
This power is effected through the agency of the Magnet-
iser, and it lies in his power to effect an important change in
the character of the individual upon · whom he operates.
Whether it may be turned to vicious purposes or not, suf-
ficient facts have not been furnished us to warrant an opin-
ion, but it is believed that it can not be done; that the 'motions
of an individual, in order to effect the patient, must be
benevolent.
But an apparent formidable objection is here raised against
the science, so long as there is a possibility of e'vil resulting
from it. With this extraordinary power,, the Magnetiser if
disposed, may make a wrong use of the influence. In an-
swer, it may be said that any power however good, is capa-
ble of abuse. The scriptures may be perverted by designing
men and the holy precepts, which it inculcates, be made
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL 'MAGNETISM. 37
subservient to the basest system of phHosophy and religion,
and yet are the scriptures with all their holy precepts to be
thrown aside 1 'l'he druggist when asked for medicine to
suit a peculiar case, may give to his unsuspecting customer
a poison, which if the patient takes, must produce instant
death, and yet because it is in the power of a druggist to do
this, shall we have no druggists 1 And is not Magnetism,
because dangerous in evil hands, to be consigned to any
hands at all1 Beside the Magnetic patients are to blame for
permitting themselves to be placed under the in11uence of a
Magnetiser, unless before witnesses, as there is a possibility
that the character may be so shaped, as to be inade subser-
vient to the basest of purposes. As an illustration of the
moral influence that can be exerted upon the patient, a cue
will be given, which was related to the writer, by a worthy
clergyman ofthe Methodist denomination. The patient was
a young lady of about twenty years of age, who had become
interested in the subject of religion while young, and united
with the church, with which he was connected. Circum-
stances beyond her control, in the course of a year or two,
placed her in society, whose tastes or feelings were not conge-
nial with those whom she had been in the habit ofassociating.
Her interest in religious affairs became lessened, and
from a cheerful and happy being, she became a morose and
melancholy picture of misery. Doubt and perplexing fears
constantly harrassed her mind. · In this distressing situation
she remained, until disease had made inroads upon her fair
form, and she seemed to be fast hastening to the embraces of
the tomb.- .In this situation she was found by the clergyman
above alluded to, who proposed Magnetism, in order to
check the inroads, that was being made upon her feeble con-
stitution. She readily consented. In about half an hour
she was fully Magnetised ; when he impressed upon her
mind the importance of cheerfulness and a change in the
current of her thoughts, and administered to her mind the
consolations of the. Christian religion. Her countenance lit
up with a beami·ng smile, joy took the place of melancholy,
o191t1zed by Coogle
38 .A.NIMAL JrUGNETISM.
'
and under the in1luence of these feelings, she was aroused.
Instead ofthe downcast look, cheerfulness was planted there.
Happiness, which for many a month had been a stranger
there, again returned. An imperceptible induence exerted
its sway over her, and she was full of happiness. A year
had elapsed, since the change in her feelings, when these
facts were stated to the writer, and she still felt the same in-
fluence upon her. Health had regained its former seat, and
she moved o.mong the circle of her friends without any alloy.
If such an influence may be exerted, what an advantage
the religious teacher may gain, in reforming those over
whose destiny he is called, in a measure, to preside. The
current of their life may be changed, and in more ways than
one, he may be a messenger of good.
Scarcely less wonderful is the change in the intellectual
power of the patient. TowNSHEND mentions the case of
one ofhis. patients, who, when in the Magnetic state, his ha-
bitual confusion of thought was changed into justness of ap-
prehension ; to indulge in abstract speculations, seemed al-
most a feature of his condition ; and he displayed in this de-
velopment of his nature, a peculiar acuteness of remark,
which looked like intuitive sagacity; he apprehended with
ease, and learned with quickness; a hint was sufficient to put
him in possession of a subject.
The following instance ofthe kind seemed almost incredi- .
ble, to those who were-witnesses of the fact. A young man,
who had been noted for his dullness, and stupidity, and want
of intellect, was Magnetised, a change come over his appear-
ance, his thoughts passed into a new track, and he conversed
with a mental activity, which put to blush men of superior
education, and intellectual endowments. An eminent law-
.yer, being put in communication with him, he began the
discussion of some legal question, nstonishing us by the
clearness of his conceptions, or keeping us in a roar of
laughter, by the lively sallies of his wit. He quoted
from authors, opinions which favored the point under dis-
o191t1zed by Coogle
'
.ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
cussion, authors~ which, it were impossible for him to have
ever seen. He then conversed with him readily io eeveral
different languages : Greek, Latin and French, pronouncing
not only the language correctly, but describing the scenes
accurately, to which his mind was directed by the gentle-
man in communication.
A Polish exile conversed with him readily in his native
tongue, describing some of the scenes of his home land with
astonishing facility.
What has been tme in his case, bas been witnessed in 11
host of other individuals. How this extraordinary power is
communicated we scarcely venture an opinion ; but singly
state the fact which the Magnetic practitioner, is an eye-
witness to, almost daily.
We have often had occasion to remark, however, that per-
sons affected with mania, or laboring under some mental ir-
regularity, which caused them to be taxed with slight insanity,
are, in the somnolescent state, generally more clear-sighted
(Clairvoyant,) than others, and that at such times, they ex-
hibit no indication of the defect of the mind, with which
they are charged ; that they possessed the most extraordinary
powers of mind, and exhibit the more remarkable phenom-
ena. The same holds true, in cases where the inteUectual
faculties are absent, or are manifestly infirm. These phe-
nomena are sufficiently explained by the experience of phy-
sicians. They know that partial insanity~ as well as d.i1fer-
ent kinds of mania, must have their origin in some d~eply
affected part ofthe epigastrium ; and in that case the irregu-
larity ofthe brain is only sympathetic. Somnambulism only
insulates the latter, renders it for the time independent of its
usual relations, .and of separating the brain from its sickly
affections, and it is by such means that this organ instanta-
neously acquires this facility and this latitude in its operations
that it enjoys while in this state.
From among an almost innumerable numbers of the ex-
traordinary eases of Clairvoyant individuals,.may be quoted
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAONii:TJSII.
the astonishing powers of Miss .8&.ACKETT, formerly of
Rhode-Island, but recently of the Blind Asylum of Boston.
This young lady was totally blind, and could scarcely speak
above a whisper in consequenceof !1 blow, which she received
while very young, by a weight falling upon her head. For
the following interesting account, we are indebted to her his-
torian, Col. STONE, whoexperimented with her at Providence,
in the year 1837. She, while in this state, could tell the eon-
tents of a box closely packed with articles altogether un-
known to her, previously she once told Col. STONE, what he ·
had writien, and placed under many envelopes, and nume-
rous seals, handing them back to him with the contents copied
on the outside, and still unbroken. Her sympathetic feelings
were so strong, that while she was travelling in imagination
with some individual, she would seem to suffer some of the
evils which would have attended it, had she been there in
reality.
When desired to go into a box, and examine its contents,
she not unfrequently would complain of suffocation, or ifby
sea, she would exhibit signs of sea-sickness. She, at one
time, was taken to Saratoga Springs, and was desired to taste
of the water in imagination, and when about to drink, acted
as ifdashing down the cup with disgust.
When examined by Col. STONE, she saw roost distinct-
ly, and read to him from books, which were held behind
her head, although totally blind, and an additional precau-
tion was taken, by blindfolding.
She was asked to go a journey with Col. STONE to New-
York, where in reality she had never been; but on his pro-
posing to her to go by steamboat, she refused because it made
her sick. She preferred being conveyed through the air.
The Colonel by imagination, supported her by the two harids,
and she trembled and shuddered at the idea of rising, begging
him to support her safely. On the way she asked him to
stop, and admire the beautiful town of Bristol. They soon
however, arrived at the Battery, of which she being inform-
ed by Col~ STONE, she expressed great delight at their safe
o191t1zed by Coogle
A!UIIIf.AJ. llAGNBTJaM
arrival, describing its appearance. She was then invited to
visit Castle Garden, but was startled at a public officer sta-
tioned there. Upon entering the passage way, she objected .
to proceeding as it was not a garden, which it is known is
true, but described accurately, di1ferent individuals who
are usually found there. In passing up Broadway the crowds
of people were a great annoyance, and when asked to enter
the Astor House, by the principal entrance, she shrunk back,
and asked if she could not come at another time, when there
were not so many men on the stairs. She spoke of the fine
work on Mechanic's Ha11, of the emptiness of the College
Green, and on being shown the residence of the President
. of the College, she said no one resided there at the time;
and the family were then reaUy absent. She spoke of de-
cayed trees, in front of some of the Professors' houses, which
although he did not know of at the time, he afterward found
to be the fact.
At last, Col. SToKE requested her to enter his bouse, she
described its different halls, apartments, their locations, &c.,
with surprising facility, she saw and was deeply aft'ected
with the numerous paintings upon the walls. In the library
she described some pieces, that were not known to be depos-
ited there by any one, but the Colonel, and in fine, seemed
to aee the bouse justas it was. Our limit will not permit ns
to detail other remarkable instances of which, there are nu-
merous cases within the writer's own experience. Such won-
derful phenomena are not uncommon in the Magnetic trance ;
to attempt to account fc>r it, is useless.
'l•he facts however exist, and as we are morally bound to
yield credence to facts, provided they are well authenticated,
upon whatever subject they may be presented,' contrary
though it may be to former views, it is useless to deny them
inasmuch as such an amount of evidence go to sustain them.
There is, however, a striking analogy in these cases of
Magnetic somnambulism, to natural somnambulism, (an ad.
rnitted phenomena byall,) which we consider of su1ftcient
consequence to devote a chapter to it.
6
o191t1zed by Coogle
A.JiUUL IIA.GNETISM.
CHAPTER IV.
Natural Somnambuli1m.
'TsE world has been frequently astonished at the narration
of remarkable cases, in which individuals have bee~ able to
deseribe articles, and to read from books, without the usual
sense. Almost every nation has furnished well authentica-
ted cases of these unaccountable phenomena. Tosome, they
seemed like idle tales, while others gave a partial credence
to the stories, considering them even if true, of little or no
consequence, while a third class, found in them facts for deep
thought, and of wonder. ,
But the discoveries of later years have proved this to be a
great philosophical truth, the development of which, is to
form a new era in science, and explain much of the hith-
erto doubtful laws that control the operations of the human
mind. Somnambulism first shows·itself by a propensity to
talk during sleeprthe person giving a full account of all that
passes before them, when in this state, often revealing their
own secrets, and those of their friends. Walking is very
common in this state, from which it derives its name. The
individual while in this state, gets out ofbed, dresses himself,
and if not prevented, walks frequently to dangerous places, in
safety, and engages in work. After going about some time,
they will return to the bed, and every thing that has trans-
.pired only passes before the mind as a dream. The sleep it-
self, the extraordinary effects resulting from it, is the partof
this}nteresting subject, which deserv!38 the attention of the
philosopher. In sleep, our external senses are in a dormant
_state. . But the cuticular organ, the principal seat of t.he
physical sensibility, is considered more open to external
impressions and influences when asleep, than when awake.
~I
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, 43
This organ, the skin, in sleep is the door by which we may
communicate directly with the internal sense of man, excite
-his faculties, and even his moral sense may be directed to
any object. Is it not very common to make sleeping per-
sons speak ; to make them hold long conversations, and
even to tell their secrets 1 Now the ear being asleep, how
can they hear by that organ 1 They can not ; they hear you
by the only organ then active, then, indeed, more than at any
other time sensitive. The vibrations of sound, as well as
the rays of light, are percieved through the skin. Through
this medium alone, and by this, does he see, and distinguish
objects.
Then does the somnambulist see objects brilliantly; no
impediment seems to limit their mion, and as they have fre.
quently described it, they invariably see objects "white as
light, and sprinkled with brilliant sparks," which RooLLIBR,
a French writer, ofcelebrity, thinks, demonstrates fully and
satisfactorily that it operates through the agency of elec-
tricity, how, he does not satisfactorily explain. ,
When the soul forsakes the inward sphere, or when the
senses operate and merely continue the vital functitm, the
body falls into a profound sleep, or entranced state, during
which time the soul acts more freely, and powerfully, all
its faculties being elevated. The more, therefore, the soul
is divested of the body, the more extensive, free, and power-
ful is its inward sphere of operation. It has therefore no
need of the body, ln order to live and exist; the latter is rather
a hindrance to it. The soul in a state of somnambulism
has no perception whatever, of the visible world, but if it be
brought into reciprocal connection with some one, who is in
his natural state, and acts through the ·medium ofhis corpo.
ral senses, it becomes conscious of the visible world through
him, and in him, is sensible of it.
In this, the analogy between Magnetic and natural som.
nambulism, is striking. The only difference is, that you.
can not converse with the former without the aid of the will
o191t1zed by Coogle
.ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Of -the individual who produced thesomnambulic state, while
in the latter, you may without any extraneous aid, suooeed
in con.ersing with them, with tolerable distinctness. Tbia
may be accounted for in the fact, that one state is natural,
while the other is artificial.
The effects alluded to above upon individuals are varied.
ABEBCOHBRIE in his intellectual powers mentions an in-
stance, in which a young nobleman living in the citadel c,>f
Breslau, w~ observed by his brother who occupied the same
room, to rise in his sleep, wrap himself in a cloak, and
escape by a window to the roof of the building. He then
tore in pieces a magpie's nest, wrapped the youngbirds in his
cleak, returned to his apartment ftlld went tG bed. In the
morning when told of it, he could not believe it, nor was he
persuaded till he found the birds in his cloak.
0A8SENni mantions an instance of a somnambulist, who
&sed to rise, dress himself in his sleep, go down to the cellar
and draw wine from a cask. One nigh~ he carried on his
head a table covered with decant,ers up a very narrow stair-
CIIBEI, and with more .
<}exterity than he could have done
wbeQ. Q.wake,
'fhe ARea B1saop of Bordeaux, states in one of the vol-
~es of the Encyclopedia, the case of a young clergy:rrum,
wl:w was in the habit of rising during the night, in a state of
so~ambulism, and writing his sermons. When he had
~ished. writing one page of his mi!Jluscript, he would read
&Qd revise it. In order to QScert.W whether he made any
use o.f his ~yes, the Arch Bishop held a piece of Plll!teboard
n~4¢r his ~bin to prevent his ~eip.g ~he paper ; but he con-
ti.Dll9<1 to wri~ on without ~ing a~ ~lJ ~ncommode«;l. p~.
:Pwi(l;ti~ ·~ntions the case qf a ~9mnambulist, who 011
~aking eveey mo~ping, (ou11<:l pi~lf withqut a shirt.
After thus losing about two ~Of.ell, tmd having no remember-
ance of wh~t had become of them, his prother one night
sl~pt with hj~, to as«;ertaill if po~ible wh!lt he did with his
ahi~. About tw~Jve o'clock he ~r~, dressed himself, and
went out ; his brother followed him one mile distant to a
o,9itized by Coogle
.ANIMAL MAGNF.TISM. 46
pond; there he undressed himself, and took his sbirt and
thrust it into a hollow log ; then bathed, lifter which he
dressed himself with the exception of his shirt, and returned,
undressed himself, and retired to his bed. In the morning
he awaked as usual, and found his shirt missing; he
inquired of his brother what had become of it, who told him
that if he would follow he would show it him ; they went to
the pond, and there found it and all the others stowed away
in a ho1low log.
In all these eases, the affection occurred during ordinary
sleep ; but a condition very analogous is met with coming
on in the day time, in paroxysms, during whieh time the per-
son is in a state resembling Magnetic somnambulism, they .
am insensible to external impressions, and no e1fort can
arouse them from the condition. These eases occur in
cllifel'ellt ways, .Ome times they are proceeded by a loeal
disease, other times by an injury, while another class are so
a1rected without any warning.
Individuals in this state, will frequently converse with·
freedom upon abstruse subjects, recite long pieces of poetry,
read out of a book when the space between the eyes and the
book is wholly filled up, and iome have been known to eon-
verse in languages with which they were not eonverJant
when they were out of this state.
Dr. ABERCROMBIE mentions a case of a woman in the
infirmary at Edinburgh, on account of an affection of this
kind, and who during the paroxysms, mimicked the manner
of the physicians, and repeated correctly some of their pre-
scriptions in the Latin language.
Dr. HAYeo~ Professor of medicine in Oxford, would give
out a test in his sleep, and deliver a good sermon from it,
ner could all the pulling and piqcbing of his frienda,
prevent him.
The celebrated Mrs. BA.KEJt. ef New.York, who ia usually
deaominated the sleeping preacher, is another remarkable -
instance of the kind. This lady uaed to ge &lu'eugh with
eft!}" •part qfthe PreabyteriaD serrioe from &be Psalm, tq tbe
o191t1zed by Coogle
46 ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
blessing. She was the daughter ofthe most respectable and
wealthy parents, who were flattered with this extraordinary
gift in their child, until they became convinced that it was
the result of disease.
This lady would when travelling in n steam boat be seized
with one ofher paroxysms, and would arise and preach to
lhe astonishment of the passengers. A volume of her ser-
mons have been published. ·
JuLIA CaxLDs, the celebrated somnambulist, who figured
some years ago at Springfield, Mass., is thus described.
When her fits of somnambulism were on, every attempt to
arouse her was in vain, at one time she continued forty-
eight hours, a bandage was tied over her eyes, but she read a
great variety of cards that were presented, told the time cor-
rectly, and would repeat. pieces of poetry that she had
learned in childhood, but had forgotten, and others which
she had merely rend several years before. She would sing
songs correctly, although she had never learned to sing,
and had never been known to sing when awake.
Dr. BEHLEN states, that he took a large black silk hand-
kerchief: and placed between the folds two pieces of cotton
batting, and applied it in such a manner that the cotton
came. directly over her eyes, and completely filled the cavity
on each side of the nose. Various names were then written
on cards, which she read as soon as they were presented
to her. She was afterward taught how to play backgam-
mon, and in the sixthgame beat Dr. BuTLER, an experienced
player. She could not even set the men, when awake. A
somewhatamusing story is found in an able work on Human
Physiology. "A lad named GEORGE DAviD, sixteen years
old, in the service of Mr. HEwsoN, a butcher in Bridgeroad, at
about twenty minutes past nine, bent forward in his chair,
and rested his forehead on his hands, and in ten minutes
started up~ went for his whip, put on his spur, and went
thence into the stable ; not finding his own saddle in the
proper place, he returned to the house and asked for -it.
Being asked what he wanted with it, he replied, to go his
o,9itized by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
rounds. He returned to the stable, got on the horse, without
the saddle, and was proceeding to leave the stable ! It was
with much difficulty that Mr. HEwsoN, Jr., assisted by the
other lad, could remove him from his horse : his strength was
great, and it was with difficulty that he was brought in doors.
The lad considered himself stopped at the turnpike gate,
and took sixpence out of his pocket to be changed, and hold-
ing out his hand for the change, the sixpence was returned
to him, he immediately observed, none of your nonsense, •
this is the sixpence again, give my change. When two-
pence half-penny was given to him, he counted it over, and
said, none of your gammon, that is not right, I want a penny
more, making a three-pence half-penny, which was the prop-
er change, he then said, give my coston, (meaning his hat,)
which slang term he had been in the habitof using, and then
began to whip, and spur, to get his horse on. His pulse was
at this time, one hundred and thirty-Six, full and hard, no
change of countenance could be observed, nor any spas-
modic affection of the muscles, the eyes remaining closed
the whole of the time."
Sufficient instances of these remarkable phenomena have
now been given to show a marked analogy to the cases,
which we mentioned in the last chapter, respecting Magnetic
somnambulism. Many individuals, however, express a full
belief in natural somnambulism, while they consider that
induced by Magnetism, as wholly a species of deception
when it will be seen, at once, that there is scarcely any thing
more remarkable in the latter, than has often been known to
occur in the former state.
The facts, then, in both kinds of somnambulism, go to
show that mankind has a sense independent of the physical
organs, which has been most eloquently expressed by the
Reverend Mr. SuNDERLAND, in the first volume ofthe Mag-
net, and which we here transcribe, for the benefit of our
readers:-
" The same fact, (the sense independent of the body,) holds
. true in insect&, animals, and birds. Is it not this sense, which
o191t1zed by Coogle
.A.NUU.L M.A.GNETISM.
•
guides ·the feathered tribes in their migrationa from one
hemisphere to another 'I Is it not this sense, which guidea
the ox in selecting two hundred and seventy-six kinds of
herbs, and, at the same, time teaches him to avoid two hun-
dred and eighteen, as unfit for food 'I A. species of spider digs
a hole in the earth, about two feet deep, and close& it with a
curious trap-door, so as to deceive and keep out every intru-
der. Th~ tortoise, though hatched a mile from the water, no
sooner leaves its shell than it runs directly to the Ocean, with-
out a guide. 'l'he sphez jJnllosa prepares liUle cells in the
earth ; then she fetches spiders, and deposites one with each
egg, that the little ones may have food as soon as they break
forth from the shell. All animals,. without insuuction, move
with perfect skill, from the time of their birth, from one'place
to another; and they use their limbs, and select their food, at
the proper time and place. Mix salt and arsenic, and it is
said sheep will select the former from the latter, a thing
which man could not do. This sense, bas been called in-
stinct ; bot is it any thing more or less than the Magnetic
sense, if we may so speak, with which the-creator bas en-
dowed every living being 'I True, for its exercise, or its
various manifestations, in mao, we have organs, the strength
and activity of which depend on the power of the Magnetic
forces, and the strength and proportions of the different Mag-
netic poles, or sympathetic points. But it is well known, to
those acquainted with human physiology, that in diseases of
the nervous system, persons have been able to see without the
use of the eyes, and to do things which they could not do
when in a healthy or waking state. And cases may be found
described in the books, where persons long sick~ and enfee-
bled with disease, have all at once become so strong, by an
excitement of the nervous system, as successfully to resist
the strength of two or three strong, able bodied men. The
nerves and muscles, in such eases, seem to possess superhu-
man power, and the brain to be endowed with a moet unac-
countable susceptiblity."
Of the manner in which this extra sense acts: we think
o191t1zed by Coogle
A.l'fiii.AL JIIIAONETIIM. 49
the facts will abundantly show. By what agency it is called
into exercise, we cannot so satisfactorily determine. By
some it is attributed to the agency of the evil one ; some to
the imagination; while a third class, (justly, we think,) to
electricity, in some one of its forms. Experiments have
been frequently tried, and in a measure establish this point,
which will not be in place to notice here.
CHAPTER V.
The Ad'fantagea .Arieiur; (rom Auimal Maguetiem.
IT is undoubtedly true, that there is more or less of truth
in every novel principle or system brought before the public,
and, to a limited extent, demands investigation, as strong
evidences of the onward tendency of the human mind. A
few years have effected wonderful changes in the practice of
medicine. Many processes, which a short time since were
universally derided, have become common, and he who now
refuses to enter into their use, is looked upon as a bigoted
fanatic. Bleeding, for instance, once regarded as the remedy
for almost every disease, in its various forms, is now looked
upon as not only useless, but in many instances a dangerous
operation, and the old method of dosing the individual with
potent drugs and poisonous minerals, has been so far modi.
fied, that nature, once despised as a mere quack practitioner,
is now permitted to have some hand in the curative process. .
The Homceopathic, the Thompsoniau, and other systems of
practice, although, perhaps, in many particulars erroneous,
have contributed largely toward producing a reform, and
spreading the conviction, that the old practice of medicine
was, in many particulars, wrong, although the individual
who thus practices, is deprived by law of any equivalent for
his trouble, beyond the voluntary contribution of his patient.
1
o191t1zed by Coogle
10 ANIMAL IIAONETJIII.
The tendency of the human mind, however, is onward;
old forms disappear ; errors of practice.are gradually giving
way, and new light is dawning upon the practice of medi-
cine. Beyond a doubt, the time will soon come, when,
instead of the -hireling physician, every person will be able
to be his own practitioner ; when he will find within himself
the elements, if properly usetl, of operating for the ditrerent
diseases " flesh is heir to."
The day has gone by, when he who derides the new prac-
tice, can so far succeed in blinding the eyes of his votaries,
as to prevent an investigation of whatever bears even a sem-
blance of benefiting the human family. True, in our coun-
try, but little attention has been paid to the curative advan-
tages, (concerning which we devote this chapter,) of Animal
Magnetism, yet the nations of the old world, in their iuvesti-
gations'of these remarkable. phenomena, have not lost sight
of it. In Germany, France, and PruS&ia, the practice ofit
has become universal among the most eminent of the medical
profession. In Berlin, an hospital has been established, for the
sole purpose of treating the sick by this agent. And a decree
of the Medical Uollege of J>enmark, passed in 1815, and
another in 1817, imposed upon physicians the duty of report-
ing the result of their practice in the use of Magnetism. Dr.
ELLIOTSON, of London, has introduced it into his extensiYe
practice with success.
Its curative advantages are extensive, "and to deny it," as
observed by Dr. MARS, before the Paris Academy of Medi-
cine, in 182&, " would be to suppose that men of the greatest
merit, two .learned bodies of the first respectability, and
governments, known to have surrounded themselves with
the be$t physicians, must, in various places, and at various
periods of time, have fallen dupes of miserable jugglers, and
propagated, favored, and executed labors merely chimeri-
cal."
· ~t is generally the case, that those who cry "humbug,"
'~imposition," "cheat," are either those who have never at
all looked.into the subject, or else just enough to satisfy
o191t1zed by Coogle
~NUUL M.AGNETIIM. ll;
theiDielves that it will greatly injure their ealling ia the
world. This- last class, self governs them in every thing ;
that which will benefit them, is of the greatest poeaible ad-
van~ae; and that which can be of no use to them, they
have no sympathy with, and the most uncompromising op-
position must be brought to bear upon it.
We think, and we hope, however, to demonstrate in the
statement of the following facts, that whatever may be the
opposition to them, from some sources, individuals of some
unknown peculiarity of organization, possess the power, by
the motion of the hands, exercise of the will, or of both com-
bined, of producing in others a Magnetic state, and thereby
greatly aid in removing many of the diseases incident to the
human family, and which have heretofore baffi.ed the skill of
science.
This we know to be true, for we have seen cases in which
diseases which had been yielded, as beyond the reach of
human means, by men who pass through the world as men
of science and erudition, removed in a short time by the aid
.of this mysterious, yet heavenly messenger.
It came, and like an angel spirit from above, it bade the
wretched sufferer be relieved ; it spoke to the soul of the
poor being tossed upon the shoals of life's tempestuous sea,
to dry up his tears, for .soon it would be calm again, and he
weather, without trouble, the bitter ills of this stormy exia-
tence.
We shall mention a few cases as proof of this assertion.
Chronic diseases, as well as all nervous affections, have not
unfrequently: been wholly cured by its application. ·
DELECJZE remarks, that Magnetism often assuages a fever,
and is a. sovereign remedy for tho enlargement of the glands,
and has wrought astonishing cures in scrofulous complaints;
ulcers which have exhausted the resources of medicine, have
been cured by Magnetism. A woman who had an nicer ten
years was cured in thirty-five sittings. Paralysis has been
not unfrequently cured in 'France. Tic Doloreux, Rheu-
matic aft'ections, are speedily relieved by ita agency. A young
o191t1zed by Coogle
61 ANIMAL III.AGNETIIM.
lady of twenty is mentioned by the same author as having
.bad attacks of the epilepsy ever since she was nine yean~
old, and had been unsuccessfully treated by the most able
physicians. It is three months since she had recourse to
Magnet~sm. From the first month her attacks became weaker
and less frequent; at the end of the second they entirely dis.
appeared, and she now enjoys perfect health.
The following instance is given by Dr. CuTTER, ofNashua,
N. H. It occurred in 1837.
Tic Doloreuz. "I was called to see Miss E. M., of this
town. The disease was confined to the right side Of the face.
I proposed Magnetism, she consented. After sleeping a short
time I awoke her, and the pain was gone and has not
returned."
Another case which the writer relieved, in the winter of
1841, is not less remarkable:-
A young lady who had be.en suffering with this disease in
its most acute forms, and had been reduced from a healthy ·
l!lystem to a living skeleton, one day with an imploring look,
said, "if Magnetism will relieve me I will believe in it." We
tried the experiment. The first sitting produced little or no
change, but after three or four time.s each successive day, the
pain left her, color again came to her cheek, and health wos
implanted where it had been absent for years, neither has
abe since had a return of it.
The following case is mentioned in the third number of
the first volume of the Magnet, by \he Rev. Ma. SuNDER·
I..AND:- .
Cholera Morbus. "Mrs. W. was siezed most violently
with this complaint, July 31, 1842, about 9 o'clock P.M.,
.and.it continued without intermission till the next day about
'welve; when we were called to see her. She was then so
much prostrated that she was not able to stand upon herfeet,
and scarce to lift her hand to her head. Though she was
much set in her mind against Magnetism: she consented to
have the trial made. The relief was immediate·and perma-
nent. She sank into a sound Magnetie sleep, which con•
. o,9itized by Coogle
ANIMAL MA.ONKTIS.U. 53
tinued for six hours. During the sleep we were called away
to see another patient, and in our absence she commenced a
description of ourself, and of various other persons in dif-
ferent places, and their views and feelings toward us. She
described. the state of her system minutely, and has since
been perfectly well."
The following case we extract from the same work, nod
may be considered one of the most remarkable on record :-
" I hereby certify, that it is now more than two years since,
from a severe affection in the throat, I lost my voice entirely,
and during this time I have been quite indisposed as to my
general health ; but I have been wholly unable to speak
above a whisper until 'last Tuesday evening, the 26th inst.,
when the Rev. LA Roy SuNDERLAND putting his hand on
my head enabled me to speak aloud. This he has enabled
me to do repeatedly in the presence of numbers of my friends,
to their no small astonishment, as well as my own, and this
morning I read in a loud voice the whole of the 40th Psalm.
I can only say it seems to be the Lord's doing, and marvellous
in my eyes.
MARY ANN BooN.
Albany, N. Y., July 28, 1842.
And here follows a certificate from some citizens of Albany,
who vouch for the correctness of the above statemen.t, which
we need not here transcribe.
Some weeks had transpired and the lady continued to talk
more or less aloud.
We continue a few more cases from another number of the
same volume of the Magnet:--
Injlammation. Mrs. G. being·present while we were·opera-
tiag on a patient, stated that she had been bitten three weeks
before, in the instep of one of her feet by some poisonoas
reptile, and during that time she had been scarcely able to
walk. The place was10uch inftalM<l and quite painfol. On
.Magnetising tlbe part a1fected, by :simply pusing 'the hand
·;onr it for aileat ten minutea, she declared it perfuctly re-
o191
t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL M.A.ONETJaM.
lieved from pain, and from that moment she \Vas able to walk
with that foot without the least difficulty.
ParalysiB. The liver, heart, stomach, and lungs appear to
be quite diseased. The statement is in her own words:-
"I have been quite indisposed for the lnst two years, during
which time I am not aware that I have derived any benefit
from medical attendance. About five months since I was
brought down with paralysis of the spine and lower limbs,
since which time I have not been able to walk at all, nor even
to bear my weight upon my feet; indeed a part of this time
my limbs have been so cramped up that I have been unable
to straighten them. Besides other diseases, I have been af-
fected with a determination of blood to the head, and spas-
modic hysteria, so that frequently my entire system has.been
thrown into convulsions, which have been exceedingly dis-
tressing. When Mr. SuNDERLAND commenced Magnetising
me, only one week since, I did not anticipate much ifnny relief,
but am now, with my friends, astonished at the effect it has
produced upon my system. Besides curing me of the spasms,
my limbs have bec~me straight, and I am now so far recovered
that I am able to walk across the room. My remarkable re-
covery thus far, I can attribute to nothing but M~onetism,
and I feel great pleasure in bearing this testimony to its unex-
pected and surprising effects in my case, in hopes that others
who may be suffering from like maladies may be induced to
give it a trial.
CAROLINE WILKINS1 72 Oarmine st.
New-York, July 6, 1842.
The following case exhibits phenomena of a different cha-
racter, and shows that in a case of long standing, where a
part of the system had become diseased and very weak, and
the other was rapidly becoming so from sympathy with it,
that the di~ase was wholly eradicatedand the former strength
of the limb restored to it. .
Mrs. W. some five years previous to the writer being,
called to see her, slipped while walking upon some ice and
fell, striking her left ankle upon the ice. It at first produeed
o191t1zed by Coogle
insensibility; it however, gradually recovered, but before it
became perfect, she sprained it again, and then eaught cold
in it. The muscles and tendons of the leg soon became very
weak and contracted, and continually became weaker till she
was unable to walk without the .aid of a crutch. The other
leg also gradually fell into the same situation with it. This
had been the case for two years when we first saw her ; not
being able to walk, she passed almost the whole time in read-
ing, consequently she had little or no exercise, which had
greatly enfeebled her general health. The first time she was
Magnetised we made her straighten out her leg, and she did
it with perfect ease. After being relieved from the state, it
remained as it was while in it. The second time she was
raised upon her feet, and made to stand her full weight upon
it. We continued Magnetising her day after day till the
sixth time, when by an effort of the will, we prevailed upon
her to walk across the room ; this she did several times suc-
cessively. By degrees the tendons of both legs ac<fuired
strength, until she was able to walk without scarcely a limp.
Several months have transpired and still it remains well.
In the above case, the whole difficulty existed in a weak-
ness of the muscles, which gradually became weaker from a
disuse of tbem. By Magnetism strength was imparted to
them, and they soon regained their former activity. How is
this the reader asks 1 We answer, that there is undoubtedly
a certain amount of nervous or electrical fluid in the sys-
tem, which is imparted from the Magnetiser to the patient;
that in the case of a healthy person, he can lose it, without
disadvantage to himself, while it may be of incalculable ad-
vantage in restoring the invalid to accustomed vigor. Mag-
netism will then operate as an efficient aid in those cases
when from somecause or other they have lost the use of their
limbs.
We spoke in a former chapter of the perfect insensibility
ofthe Magnetic Somnambulist, and we promised to state some
facts in which this had been used to.great advantage, partieu-
larly in surgical operations-this promise we now fulfil.
o191t1zed by Coogle
'
.A.IRMAL IIAGIIETJ...
The first case we copy from the London Times, as it was
read to the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London.
We give the case entire.
"JutES WOMBELL, aged 42, a laboring man, of a calm and
quiet temperametit, h~td suffered for a period of about five
years from a painful affection of the left knee, occasioned by
ulceration arising from neglectAd inflammation. On the 21st
of June he was admitted into the District Hospital at Wellow
near Ollerton, no longer able to work, and suffering much
pain. It was soon found that amputation of the ·leg, above
the knee joint was inevitable, and it was eventually proposed
that it should be performed, if possible, during Mesmeric
sleep. I saw WOMBELL for the first time on the 9th of Sep-
tember. He was sitting upright upon a bed in the Hospital,
the only position which he could bear. He complained of
great pain in his knee, and of much excitability aud loss of
strength from his constant restlessness and deprivation of
sleep, for he had not, during the tpree previous weeks, slept
more than two hours in 'seventy. ·
" In the first attempt to Mesmerise him, which occupied me .
thirty~five minutes, the only effect produced was a closing of
tbe eye lids, with that quivering appearance peculiar to Mea-
marie sleep, and though awake and sleeping, he could not
raise them until after the lapse of a minute and a half. My
attempt the next day was more successful, and in twenty
minutes he was asleep. We continued to Mesmerise him
every day, except the eighteenth, until the 24th of September,
his susceptibility gradually increasing, so that on the 23d the
sleep was produced in four minutes and a half. The dura-
tion of this sleep varied, continuing generally for half an
hour, sometimes for ·an hour, and occasionally for an hour
at:ad half; but with two exceptions, (attempts to converse with
him,) we inavariably found him awakened, though without
being startled by the violent pain from his knee, which sud-
dealy.recurred at uncertain intervals. The third time.we
saw ·him he ,was suffering great agony, and distreaed e,._
to tearS. We commenced by making puses longitudinally
o191t1zed by Coogle
17
over the diseased knee, in five minutes he felt comparatinly
easy, and on proceeding farther to Mesmerise him, at the ex-
piration of ten minutes he was sleeping like an infant; not
only his arm was then violently pinched, but also the dis-
eased leg itself, without his exhibiting any sensations; yet
this limb was so sensitive to pain iu his natural state, he could
not bear the slightest covering·to rest upon it. That night
he slept seven hours without interruption. After constantly
Mesmerising him for ten or twelve days, a great change was
observed in his appearance; the hue of health returned-
he became more cheerful-felt much stronger-was easier
in mind and in body-slept well, and recovered his appetite.
On 22d September, he was first apprised of the necessity of
an early amputation. The communication seemed almost
unexpected, and affected him considerably. The anticipated
loss o{ the limb, however, that night destroyed his natural
sleep. Next day, though still found fretting, restless, and in
consequent pain, he was yet, by my touch, asleep in four
minutes and a half. I was then absent, and did not see WOK-
BELL until the 28th. He was looking healthy and cheerful ;
his natural sleep was sound and regular, and his pain soothed
and diminished. 1 was now convinced that the operation
might be safely attempted during Mesmeric sleep; and with
the man's firm consent, it was fixed for the Saturday fol-
lowing.
"On the morning of the 1st ofOctober, 1again Mesmerised
WOMBELL, having done so the previous two days. This
was done in the presence of Dr. W. S. WARD, (the operator,)
and two other surgeons, in order that the previous Mesmerism ·
might tend, as I believed it would, to render his sleep deeper,
when again Mesmerised for the operation, and also to satisfy
them of the state in which he would be when that time ar-
rived. He slept an hour, and was aroused by an attempt to
converse with him. 1 then showed him my power ofa1fect-
ing any one of his limbs, even when he was quite awake.
At my request he extended his arms alternately. By making
two or three passes over each, without any contact,I so traDJ-
8
o191t1zed by Coogle
58 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
fixed them that from the shoulders to the end of the fingel'l!l
they became as rigid and unyielding as bars of iron, not to
be unbent by mechanical force powerful enough to injure the
limbs, and yet instantly relaxing throughout, and dropping
to his side, from the effect of my breath alone. His right
leg w~ affected in the same degree, and relief from imme-
diate pain was frequently afforded by making similar passes
over the diseased one. Though the insensibility to pain was
diminished in the limbs thus affected while awake, it was
only during Mesmeric sleep I found it totally gone. At half
past one o'clock we proceeded to WOMBELL's room for the
purpose of making the necessary preparations. From the
suffering inflicted by the slightest movement, it was found
impossible, without needless torture, to place him upon a
table. The low bed, on which he then lay, was therefore
lifted upon a. temporary platform. Ten minutes after being
Mesmerised, he was drawn, by means of the bed clothes
beneath him, toward the end of the bed ; the movement,
however, excited that pain which had so often aroused him
before, and now it did so again. There was something quite
excruciating in the suffering which the state of the knee pro-
duced, for I had seen hlm while in Mesmeric sleep, pinched
in other parts of the diseased limb, without being disturbed
or conscious of it. To preclude the necessity of any other
movement, his leg was now placed in the most convenient
position which he could bear. Shortly afterward he declared
that the pain had ceased, and I again Mesmerised him in four
minutes. In a quarter of an hour, I informed Dr. WARD
t~at he might commence the operation. I then brought two
fingers of each hand gently iq contact with WoMBELL's
closed eye lids, and there kept them still farther to deepen
sleep. Dr. WARD, after one earnest look at the man, slowly
plunged his knife into the centre of the outer side of the pa-
tient's thigh, directly to the bone, and then made a clear inci-
ston round the bone to the opposite point on the inside of the
dligh. The stillness at'this moment was something awful;
the calm respiration of the s~eping nmn alone ·wbS _
heard;
.;,
o191t1zed by Coogle
.ANIMAL ISAGNETlSM. 69
for all other seemed suspended. In making the eecond inci-
sion, the position of the leg was found more inconvenient
than it had appeared to be, and the operator could not pro-
ceed with his former facility. Soon after the second incision
a moaning was heard from the patient, which continued at
intervals until the conclusion. It gave me the idea of a
troubled dream, for his sleep continued as profound as ever.
1'he placid look of his countenance never change~ for an
instant-his whole frame rested uncontrolled in perfect still·
ness and repose-not a muscle or nerve was seen to twitch.
To the end of the operation, inclndi~ the sawing of the
bone, securing the arteries, and applying the bandnges-occu·
pying a period of upward of twenty minutes-he lay like a
statue. Soon after the limb was removed, his pulse becom.
ing low from loss of blood, some brandy and water was
poured into his throat, which he s·wallowed unconsciously.
As the bandage was applied, I pointed out to one of the sur-
geons, and another gentleman present, that peculiar quivering
of the closed eye lids already alluded to.
"Finally, when all was completed, and WoMBELL was
about to be removed, his pulse being still found very low,
some sal volatile and water was administered to him; it
proved too strong and purgent, and he gradually and calmly
awoke. At first he uttered no exclamation, and for some
moments seemed lost and bewildered, but after looking around
he exclaimed-' I bless the Lord, to find that it is all over!'
He was then removed to another room, and following imme-
diately, I demanded of him, in the presence of the persons
assemhled, to describe all he felt or knew after he was Mes-
merised. WoMBELL's reply was-' I never knew any thing
more, and never felt any pain at all ; I once felt as if I heard
a kind of crunching.' I asked if that were painful; he re-
plied, 'no pain at all ; I never had any, and knew nothing
till I was awakened by that strong stuff, (sal volatile.) The
crunching, no doubt, was the sawing of his own thigh bone.
He was left easy and comfortable, and still found so at nine
o'clock that night, about which hour I again Mesmerised
o,9,t,zea by Coogle
CIO .t.NUU.L MAGNE'l'l8M.
him in a minute and three quarters, and he slept an hour
and a half. I may farther add, that on the Monday follow-
ing, theJfirst dressing of his wound was in Mesmeric sleep.
Of this dressing, usually accompanied by much soreness and
smarting, be felt nothing-slept long after it was completed
-was ignorant of Dr. WARD's intention, and after awaken.
ing, remained unconscious of its having been done. Dr. W.
B. WARD's own valuable statement, in accordance with his
personal observation and care, prior and subsequent to the
operation, he ~as kindly permitted to be appended to my own,
and thus to render complete the narrative of this case, which
I leave without a syllable of comment.
"Middle Temple, Oct. 26, 1842."
Dr. WAan's account, which was written four days after
the above, confirmed this in every particular. It states
that the patient is doing remarkably well, and sat up on Sun-
day last to eat his dinner, just three weeks from the opera.
tion, and he has not a single bad symptom, none even of the
nervous excitement, so frequently observed in patients who
h'&ve undergone painful operations, and who have suffered
much previous anxiety in making up their minds. We have
.. transcribed the whole of this interesting cure for a two fold
reaf!On-first, to show the importance of Magnetism in sur-
gical operations;- and secondly, to show to those who are
experimenting, some important things to be observed, with-
out which, the operation might be at~nded with serious dif-
ficulties. ~any an unfortunate individual has been Magne-
tised by improper persons, and they have felt the blighting
influence of it throughout their lives. In the case mentioned
above, had not the utmost care been taken, it would have re-
sulted in the death of the individual. With proper care then,
it may be made an invaluable auxiliary in these operations,
which so often prove fatal to the unfortunate individuals com-
pelled tq submit to them.
We mention another case, not less difficult, but the more
interesting, as it occurred in our own country.
o191t1zed by Coogle
.ANIMAL :MAONETIS!'I, 6(
The experiment of Magnetising was performed by Mr. L.
N. FowLER, a distinguished phrenologist, and the operation
performed by the physician whose certificate will be found at
the conclusion of this article. The statement wns published
in the .first volume of the Magnet. -The subject was Mrs.
M.ANN, the wife of GEORGE B. M.ANN, Esq., postmaster in
the village of Milford, Mass.
''She is naturally extremely nervous, so much so as to
·amount to a disease, and very sensitive. The other day a
letter was brought in : she received an impression that it
contained unfavorable news, and went into violent spasms,
and it was several hours before she recovered from its effects,
Is very susceptible to the influence of Magnetism. Have put
her to sleep by putting cotton into her ears, and any thing
passed from my hand to hers, will be clenched so nervously
as to defy all attempts at taking it away from her. She was
much affected by severe head and tooth ache ; but since be-
ing Magnetised, she has not been troubled with either, and
as she informed me last week, was never previously so well
in her life. She complained, however, of her appetite having
been very poor. I Magnetised the organ of alimentiveness,
and she manifested excessive hunger, eating with violence at
every meal, finally bringing on sickness. She informed me
she had a tumor upon her shoulder, that she would like to
have taken out. I told her it could probably be done with-
.out her knowing or feeling it. She consented to have it
done, and Tuesday ofJast week was appointed for the opera-
tion. I came according to appointment, and put her into the
Magnetic condition at half-past nine o'clock, A.M. She was
under the impression that she would be awoke, and put to
sleep a second time, before any attempt would be made at
extracting the tumor. Dr. Fxsx came at ten, commenced
operations at about eleven, and closed at halt:past twelve,
M. There were present, Dr. Fxsx, G. B. M.ANN, (her
husband,) Miss M. B. CLE.AVELAND1 and myself. From the
first incision nntil the operation was two-thirds completed,
abe experienced no pain whatever, but chatted and laughed,
•
• o191t1zed byGoogle
.A.NUt..U. JdAGICETlSM.
as though she were perfect!y at ease. At t~?-is time, it became
necessary for some one to assist the doctor, and quitting her,
I directed my attention toward aiding him. Not being sup-
ported, she began to experience some pain, and wished the
doctor to stop. She became more and more distressed,
.and wished me to send him away, letting her rest awhile,
and then it would be finished without hurting her. She
grew more and more urgent, and said she could not stand it,
and that the doctor must stop. I asl{ed her, at this point, if
she was asleep. She said, ' Yes.' He stopped several times,
a minute or two, which prolonged the operation ; but he was
afraid to let it remain unfinished : thus continued to operate,
contrary to her request. At length it was completed, and
bandaged. I then put her into a more quiet sleep, until half-
past four, at which time I aroused her. When she opened
her eyes, she was much amused at the plight she found her-
self in-dress disordered, arm uncovered, &c. For a minute,
she was laughing and crying at the same time. I asked
what the matter was. She replied, her dress-how came it
so disarranged 1 and her arm-how came that bare 1 I asked
her if she did not know the cause. She said, ' No;' then
hesitated, and asked the question, if the tumor was removed 1
I asked her if she did not know whether it was removed or
not 1 'Is it 1' inquired she, with great earnestness. I then
informed her. ' Oh !' exclaimed she, with joyful surprise,
'how glad I am; why, I thought I was to be put to sleep a
second time, to have it taken out.' She then looked at the
wound, and said she knew nothing about it,' had no knowl-
edge .of the Operation, or of any pain; she could hardly be
made to believe it. Her arm had been retained in the Mes-
meric'condition·, after she was taken out, and she did not feel
any soreness or pain in her arm. Put. her to sleep at half-
past eight, and awoke her at two in the morning. She has
been in the Magnetic sleep niost of the time, for four days
after the operation, and h~ not experienced the slight~t
pain. The doctox describeS the tumor .as follows :-'lt
is an adiJ.)oise humor,·fotu inches thick, five and a half in
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 6S
length, and five in breadth, at,the lower half gradually be-
coming thinner at the edge, diffusing itself under the integn·
ments and cellular substance over a large surface. The
attachments to the skin and muscles being very strong, and
the surface of the tumor being irregular and badly defined,
rendered the operation protracted, and would, in ordinary
cases, be extremely painful.' 'l'he doctor adds, there is not,
in the whole of his acquaintance, another person who is so
nervous, and so bad a subject for an operation, and that,
under ordinary circumstances, he would not attempt any
important operation upon her for one thousand dollars. I
have certificates from the doctor, from Mr. MANN, &c., wit-
nessing the truth of the above statement.
"Very respectfully, L. N. FowLER."
Certificates, certifying to the truth of the above, are in the
Magnet, confirming it in every important particular.
"I was present, and performed the operation upon the
right arm of Mrs. MANN, on Tuesday last, August 2, whilst,
as Mr. FowLER states, she was under the influence of Mag-
netism, and believe, according to the best of my memory,
that his statement is correct, although I am not, as yet, fully
prepared to admit Magnetism to be a science, or believe in
many of the details which_its advocates ascribe to it.
"JAMES FisK, M. n."
The following fact cannot fail to be of interest to those
who are investigating this subject with reference to its impor-
tant aid in surgery. Dr. RoBERTSON, who performed the
operation, and communicated the fact, is a citizen ofAugusta,
Georgia, who has been long and favorably known as a phy-
sician in that place, and whose character for veracity is
unqestioned, which entitles his statement to the highest
credence.
" I was called to visit a son of Mr. SPEARs of this city,
who I was informed had received a severe injury ofthe elbow
joint from falling. It was supposed to be a fracture o:t
mlocadob. The lad \t'as bEltween twei.ve or thirteen yeatS
~ oigit,zed by Coogle
.ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of age. When I saw ·him he was suffering excruciating
pain, th~ joint wns very much swollen, particularly about
the internal condgle ofthe humerus. He could not suffer the
slightest motion without crying out with pain, and the arm
could only be moved by being supported in the uninjured
hand. I made several attempts to make the necessary exami-
nation to ascertain the state of the injured joint, but all
efforts were fruitless, so intense and insupportable was 'he
agony whenever I touched or handi~d the extremity. I
finally told the boy in a jocular manner, if he did not hold
still and let me examine his arm, I would have him Mesmer-
ised. His father replied, that he had done it on the pre.
vious evening, I then requested him to do it again. After
considerable hesitation he commenced, and in thirty min-
utes the Magnetic sleep was completed. I then took hold of
the injured arm and examined it in every way to satisfy
myself that it was neither a fracture, nor a dislocation, but
a severe contusion of the whole joint, with considerable
extravasation of blood. A satisfactory examination in such
cases, as every surgeon well knows, must require the arm to
be turned, and twisted in various directions before the
diagnosis can be relied upon ; but during the whole e~amina­
tion he exhibited no symptoms of pain, or consciousness
whatever. I then placed the usual bandage upon the injured
joint without disturbing the patient in the slightest degree.
When aroused, he was perfectly astonished that his arm
was bandaged, and immediately placed the limb in the
uninjured hand as before."
But there is another important advantage arising from
Animal Magnetism, \Vhich we have not noted in the prece-
ding pages, i. e. that power by which the individual when
Magnetised, can perceive the state of another individual,
whether the system is in a healthy condition, what parts are
affected, what are well, and finally what will relieve the
diseased person. So much confidence is placed in this
extraordinary power, that many Magnetisers when in ill
health, employ no other agency but a Magnetic one to aid
oigit,zed by Coogle
Al'UJUL JUONET18M.
them. We will in this place state but one fact, and refer the
reade.: t.o the numerous ca..~ in the Appendix, which can not
fail to be of deep interest to the investigating mind.
It is but few months since, that a mother, Mrs. A--, ap-
plied to the writer in behalf of a son about fourteen years
of &oae, who for several years, had been afllicted with occa-
sional fits, which had so affected his mind, as to produce
almost a state ofidiocy. Physicians in a).most every part of
the country, had examined his case, and each had treated
his complaint as originating from a different cause. But
all their efforts to remove the fits had been wholly unavail-
ing, and the you:-~gman seemed to be rapidly sinking into that
stnte of mind, which friends cannot but regard with instinc-
tive horror. Physicians considered his case as hopeless.
At this time the mother becoming interested in the subject
of Animal Ml\,anetism, was induced to see if a Clairvoyant
subject could give her information relating to her son. The
Clairvoyant after making an .examination stated, that his
case had been mistaken ; that in the multitude of ways, not
one had reached his actual condition. Mter stating what
had been done to the young man, (of which she knew noth-
ing when awake,) and of the symptoms exhibited, the Clair-
voyant became suddenly most fearfully convulsed; after we
succeeded in calming her system, she stated the cause of it
to be a tape worm, rolled up ~ithiu the intestines, which
was gradually consuming the system and must soon ter-
minate in the death of the young man, unless Temoved ; she
theu prescribed a remedy which was followed, and in the
course of a few days a tape worm corresponding to her de-
scription and nine feet long, come from him ; since which
time, he has not had a return of the fits, and appears to be
regaining his former vivacity and life.
That Magnetism has resulted in some extraordinary cures;
that under its influence painful surgical operations have'been
performed, we think the above mentioned cases will satis-
factorily demonstrate.
The objector however, may say that it is all imaginary,
9
o191t1zed by Coogle
.A.NIM.A.L MAGNETISM.
that the individual being possessed ofa strong and vivid
imagination, had a presentiment, thatall this might be done,
and under the influence of it was smade to bear up against
it and seemingly to suffer no pain. But can the imagination
actually cure a deep seated disease 1 Can it cause an
individual to be laid upon a tab:e, apparently asleep, and
without suffering the slightest pain, have n limb removed,
the arteries tied up and the wound dressed 1 Can it cause a
timid, nervous female, suffering under an acute tooth ache,
to calmly sit down, close her eyes as if in sleep, open her
mouth, and have the tooth extracted, without the slightest
movement of a muscle1 Well, admit it, that all this call be
done, that disease can be cured, pains relieved, and painful
surgical operations be performed under the influence of
the imagination ; but let it be placed to the credit of Animal
Magnetism, for having discovered this fact. Had not MEs-
MER and his disciples, discovered this wonderful intluence,
the world might still have rolled on as it has for the last six
thousand years, in ignorance of this important truth. But
we care not what name the opponent of Magnetism apply to
it, let them call it ima_!!ination, we are content with the fact.
If we can be relieved from pain when sick; if we can have a
limb removed when diseased without suffering, we are·satis-
fied. Names are to us of no consequence, and the opponents of
Magnetism may call it whatever they please, we shall be re-
lieved by its agency, and are satisfied with the fact as it is,
without disputing about a mere name. We however shall
continue to apply to it our former name, until its opponents
show some reason beyond mere assertion to disprove it, and
shall venture the opfnion toward sustaining that designation~
that the human system contains more or less in proportion to
its strength, ofthe_Magnetic fluid, and that many of the laws
which regulate mineral Magnetism, apply with equal force
to Magenetism in animated bodies, and that all diseases arise
from the derangement of these Magnetic forces, which to be
active are essential to life, and that, in the language of Rev.
Mr. SuNDERLAND, every disease whether local or general, is
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIAUL MAGNETISM,
controlled by portions of the brain, and they are dependent
upon the state of the cerebral organs, and through these
organs, they may be excited, controlled, modified, nnd re.
moved. In other words, that the lorain is the Sl'nt of the
Magnetic forces of the system. Diseuse thcrclore muy be
eventually relieved, and eradicntrd by Mnguetil>ing these for-
~es, and through their ngency cff0ct the wholtJ system.
This will not be fully done until the laws thnt govem
the human system are better understood and obeyed.
We give in this place, t~1e opinion of Rev. Mr. SuNnER·
LAND relative to th~ impMtnnt truth, hnscd upon fncts thnt
have come within his knowledge, in his investigation of the
science of hurhnn life; merely remarking thnt our own
experience, which has not been limited, corroberates his con-
Clusions, which are'stated much more forcibly in his language,
than we are able to do.
1. "That animal life is nothing more nor less, than Mngnet.
ism in an organized, or modified form. The Magnetic forcee
produce the conception, and growth of the human system,
and their decay and separation from the body, results in
deAth.
2. " 'l1hat this life is generated between the brain and the
semilunar plexus, or perhaps the solar plexus.
3. "That from the brain, vitality is distributed over the
system, and different parts of that organ supply it for dif-
ferent portions of the body, so that every vital or physical
organ and muscle, is animated and controlled by a separate
portion of the brain.
4. •1 The temperaments are fixed, and determined, by the
predominance of the different Magnetic forces. A predomi-
nance of the negative forces makes one temperament, and
the positive forces another, and the combination of the dif-
ferent forces in the same person, and proportions of the forces
in certain parts of the system, make a combination of the
different temperaments in the same person.
6. " Derangement of the Magnetic forces, in the mental
organs, produces rnonomania1 insanity and madness.
o1git1zed byGoogle
68 ANIMAL MAG.IS'ETISM,
6. " Derangement of the cerebral organs, which control
the physical organs, produces disease, and the derangement
of the sympathetic points, or poles, in any other parts of the
system, produces the same results, and affects the brain more
or less, in all cases.
7. " All diseases may be controlled, more or less by Mag- .
netising the cerebral organs, corresponding with the parts
affected. Henco as far as we have ascertained, the location of
the different cerebral organs, which control the vital organs,
we have found Magnetism to be a specific for recent diseases
of every kind. •
8. "For nervous complaints, and diseases of the brain, such
as monomania, insanity, and madness, Magnetism is a perfect
cure, in recent cases where we can ascertain, with certainty,
the different parts which have been affected, and where thero
is no malformation, or destruction of the organs.
9. " Medicines have no effect in removing disease, except
in so far as they produce the right kind of action, upon the
Magnetic forces of the parts diseased.-
10. ''Health, therefore, is that state of the system, in which
all its organs, perform all their natural functions, unrestrained,
by a due proportion of the Magnetic forces."
What these Magnetic forces are, perhaps we have not
sufficiently explained. They are nothing more, nor less than
the controlling movements of the system, under whose gui-
dance we may easily find the road to health, and enjoy the ,
rich treasures therein contained. These have origin in the
brain, and are distrbuted throughout the body. When these
are fully understood, so that the laws which govern thelJl
may be obeyed, then, many cases of disease may be averted,
and instead of the individual being hurried to an early, Md
premature grave, he will only be carried there, in a "good
old age," when the machinery of the human sys~em has be-
come worn out.
The laws of life, the most important which can affect our
existence here, are the least attended to. Neither will they
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNK'rlS:\1, tiO
be fully understood and explained, until the science of Mag-
netism iu the human system is more investigated.
We conclude by remarking, that he who would be a phi-
lanthropist, and have no meaner motive Agitate his bosom,
than to do aU in his power for the relief of suffering hu.
manity, ought to investigate every wny that presents iblelf,
having upon its standard "benefit to the human family i''
unless this is done, the name is misapplied, and he deservoa
to be forgotten.
CHAPTER VI.
Phl'eno·Maguetl•m.
TaE discovery of Phreno-Magnetism, nlthough of recent
date, is yet sufficiently important to demand a passing notice
in these pages. Phrenology, for the last half century, has
occupied no small share of the public attention, and although
at first derided as altogether a humbug, and still sneered at
by many, is revolutionizing moral.philosophy, and demolish-
ing the abstruse o.nd unintelligible crudities of the metaphy-
sician, by its plain, simple, and correct classification of the
faculties of man. Though still, and perhaps properly, in a
probationary state, and not yet formally recognised and given
a place in the philosophy of ou:r schools, its reforming and
modifying progress is every where to be seen. It is operating
tipon the treatment ofthe insane; upon systems of education ;
upon prison discipline; nay, its very nomenclature is a mat-
ter of familiar use, because no other analysis of our moral
~onstitution furnishes distinct ideas of the animal impulses;
of the perceptive faculties and moral sentiments of which
~r nature is composed ; and because we in vain look elsa..
- where for wo:rds to destribe the emotions of whieh wa are
conscious.
•
Digitized by Google
70 - ANIMAL IUAONETISM.
Phrenology, as well as Magnetism, in its struggle has had
to s:ontend with the most obdurate scepticism and prejudice.
CoMBE, himself, was originally a sceptic, made so by JEio'·
FREY and the Edinburgh Review; we have his own assurance
that he looked into the subject for years before his mind could
be completelysati~fied that GALL and SPURZBEIM were right;
yet where a man, confessedly the first philosopher of the age,
paused in long and anxious doubt, others cry humbug, with-
out a momellt's reflection. As it was true in Phrenology, so
it has been in :Magnetism ; and this same eminent philoso-
pher, after having fully investigated the phenomena, an -
nounces to the world that he places entire confidence in Ani-
mal Magnetism, not only in what its professors maintain, but
as triumphant demonstration of the truth of Phrenology.
That part of Animal Magnetism which bears an important
relation to Phrenology, is called Phreno-Magnetism• . It is
thus called, because its influence is confined exclusively to
developments upon the brain, and by it, exciting the different
faculties of tho mind, either jointly or singly. The phe-
nomena is developed in the appearance and expression of the
patient, and not unfreqnently amounts to partial insanity,
causing the individual to utter the most ludicrous expres-
sions, or to burst forth into the wildest fits of anger, which
may at once be remo~ed by withdrawing the influence.
We cannot better convey to the reader, an idea of these in-
teresting phenomena, than by relating some of the particular
results of Pheno-Magnetism. -
The organ of Veneration, for instance, may be excited,
and it will exhibit itself by causing _the individual' to avow
strong attachment to the Supreme Being ; and where it is
large, will frequently cause them to fall upon their knees in
prayer. Combativeness being excited, the patientwill com-
mence fighting every one with whom he comes in con.-
tact. In one case, a knife was seized by the patient, and
plunged at the writer with a violence, which if it had not
· been evaded, must have produced death. The influence of
it being removed, Benevolence was touched, when he broke
•
o191t1zed by Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 71
out into the most painful entreaty, that we would forgive him
for the awful net he had done, and as a reparation, he would
give us all he.had in his possession.
Mirthfulness produces immoderate laughter; Tune, fine
music, and frequently good singing, when it did not exist in
the waking state.
·Philoprogenitiveness, will cause the individual to dandle
an imaginary child upon the knee, with all the fondness of a
doting mother ; while, if the antagonistical organ be excited
with it, the child will be cast aside with disdain. So in all
the organs of the brain, the faculty corresponding to it will
be developed.
Phrenologists, by its aid, have been enabled to discover tl1e
location of a variety of faculties not laid down in the charts
of GALL and SPURZHEIM, which has well nigh established
the important fact, that for every function of the mind, there
is a distinct development of the brain.
These facts have been tested in so many ways, that the
great truth of Phrenology, so important in giving us an
insight into the laws and operations of the human mind, has
been placed upon a basis from which it can not be removed.
The most important advantage arising from Phreno-Mag-
netism is, that it will give us the true cause, and place an
immediate remedy within our reach of monomania, or par-
tial insanity. It is now an established opinion a111ong Mes-
merisers, that this horrible disease consists in a derangment
of the Magnetic forces that are seated in the brain, and that
the development of it, corresponds to the organ which is thus
deranged.
For instance, an individual may be insane upon their reli-
gious beliefi it will exhibit.itself in their constantly express-
ing themselves in a mass of unmeaning remarks relative to
religion. It is supposed that in this case the organ of venera-
tion has become excited, and thus monomnnia is produced
upon the subject of religion. This disease, being confined
to one distinct portion of the system, it may be at once re-
moved by Magnetising the organ affected, or Magnetising i~
antagonistical one.
o191t1zed by Coogle
72 ANIMAL MAUNETISM.
Nbmerons instances in the history of every Magnetiser,
fully confirm this view of the subject.
An individual who had been a few weeks insane, supposed
to proceed from the loss of considerable property, was some
time since presented to the writer for an experiment of this
kind. Scarcely a minute would elapse, when awake, in
which he was not exclaiming against the ills of poverty ; his
own unfortunate situation, in losing all he was worth in the
worl'.!, and his fear that he should be unable to provide any
more money for the support of some friends who depended
upon him for a living. His Acquisitiveness was operated
upon particularly, in conjunction with an experiment upon
his whole system, nnd strange to say, in three trials he was
fully relieved from his monomania.
So numerous arc the cases of this disease in the world,
· that the bare possibility of obtaining relief through the aid
of Magnetism, should demand for it the'respectful considera-
tion of every candid mind. -
CHAPTER VII.
Concludiag Remarka.
TaE first introduction of Animal Magnetism into the
United States, was in 1836, by Dr. CHARLES PoYJi;N1 a
Frenchman. Having witnessed some experiments in Paris,
he came to this countiy, and after spending some time at
Boston, in the capacity of a teacher of the French, he lec-
tured upon the subject in the principal cities of New Eng-
land, but meeting with no success, he soon retired in disgust,
and sought repose again in his native country. His lectures,
however, directed the attention of many minds to the subject,
and in the course of two or three years, efforts were made
again to revive it, and to place it upon a foundation which
its merits deserved. This time, these efforts were attended
o191t1zed by Coogle
A.NIMA.L MA.ONETJS•• 73
with success. Inquiry was excited, o.nd from tbat time to
the present, Animal Magnetism has been a leading subject
of investigation among the American people. Scientific men,
physicians, clergymen, and others, have experimented, and
satisfied themselves of the truth of the science, until its prin-
ciples have become universally diffused.
The time now having arrived, when nearly all have be-
come satisfied of the truth of the alleged phenomena and
facts, the inquiry is, what is the agent in producing these
results:
"StrikiDJ the eleotrio ohaia wberewitla we are darkl1 boud 1"
This is not yet fully settled, but sufficient is known to in-
terest the mental philosopher in its investigation, as through
its light, he beholds the easy explanation of the abstruse
ideas of the metaphysician.
The physicinn also, instead of groping in the dark, uncer-
tain whether he is treating his patient correctly, may know,
by the aid of a Magnetised patient, the exact locality of the
disease, its nature, the length of time it bas continued, and
thereby the proper remedy.
Beyond a doubt, here may be found the key that will un-
lock the door that opens upon the mysterious fabric of the
human mind-will develope it in nil its interesting relations,
and show its striking affinity, in its pure state, to that Being
who made man in his own image, and created him with a
power of will, which makes him sovereign over all other
creatures that inhabit the same earth with him. Facts have
been stated in the preceding pages, substantiated-beyond the
possibility of a doubt. Wbat shall we say to them 1 They
are too numerous to be set down as curious coincidences, and
must be admitted as evidences of a singular sense of vision,
and· that, for the time being, the immortal spirit, released from
the body, roves freely, and at the will of tho Magnetiser.
These facts are no more strange. than the numerous cases
of natural somnambulism, some of which we have alluded
to, and which ate universally admitted to be true.
10
o191t1zed by Coogle
74. ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
"Now," in the language of another, "if we admit that the
soul, in this case, saw without the aid of eyes, why not admit
that in certain states of the nervous system, other senses or
faculties of the mind may also act independently of their
material organs1 We know the soul thus exists after death,
and why not in the state of temporary death produced by
Animal Magnetism'J What know we of the nature of the
'deathless spark within us1 And if we allow that it may,
. without the ~ody, enter the next room, we can not deny t.he
possibility, that in the same manner, it may annihilate time
and space, and travel hundreds (If miles as easily and as
quickly as it can so many feet.
"But, some say, we can not believe that God hns given such
a dangerous power to the human will. It is out of the com-
mon order of nature ; it is a miracle ; we can not believe it.
But who can set bounds to the dominion of the human will1
Man, before the l!lteady gaze of whose eye, the forest king
trembles, and flees-whose power extends to the huge dwell.
'ers in ocean's unfathomed infinite-man, at whose nod the
giant oak: which for centuries has braved heaven's thunder-
bolts, falls prostrate and rises again in beauty to adorn his
_mansion-who lays his will upon the everlasting rock, and
it becomes as wax~whose highway is earth, and ocean, and
air-whose servant is the lightning-whose intellect spans
earth, and encircles heaven-thinking, reasoning, godlike
man-who can set bounds to the untried power of his mys.
terious will1 Who say to it, thus far shalt thou come, but
no farther."
Who has thrown any light upon this mysterious power 1
What have the mental philosophers of the last six thousand
years, in all their investigations, done to throw one sh,adow
of light upon this dark path 1 Nothing! Are we then to
yield it as beyond the power of man to know 1 Are man-
kind to be compelled to grope on in a fearfhl state of uncer-
tainty, not knowing any thing of the nature and extent of
the mortal spirit 1 We think not. The Almighty never
thus destined his creatures to live, but has given us an agent,
o191t1zed by Coogle
j.NUU.L HAQNJo:'rJSM. 75
under the influence of which we may perceive the dawning
light. Animal Magnetism reveals to us the beings we are-
developes to us the pure state of mind with which we are
created-confirms the truth of revelation, annihilating many
of the doctrines which have been received as Christianity,
and places the immortal mind of man fnr abov:e the depravity
with which it has been frequently associated.
The investigations now are ; what is the agent, and what
the ultimate tendency of it. Years have been already con-
sumed, by scientific men, in searching for the hidden power,
-and probably years more will be spent, ere it will be fully
understood. No effort, however, should be spared to farther
the progress, altho~gh the consummation of our hopes may
not be realised during our lives. The prospect that we may
be anhumble aid in hastening on a day, when a power shall
be fully understood, which shall satisfactorily explain all the
laws of nature-relieve all our doubts respecting the truth
of Christianity, and place their knowledge, respecting the
unfathomed future, upon a basis from which it can not be
shaken, should be sufficient incentives to use every exertion
that lies in our power.
o,9itized by Coogle
oigit,zed by Coogle
APPENDIX.
TsE following cases, are here detailed in order to convey
to the reader, the various phenomena, presented by different
persons, under the influence of Magnetism.
They will show the effect upon .the different tempera-
ments, in a much clearer light than any description, and
demonstrate its truth beyond the possibility of a doubt. Such·
facts must be considered as more than mere coincidences,
as they occur in the experience of every Magnetiser.
Some of them are part of the experiments of the writer,
and none others are named, which are not duly authen-
ticated.
We find the following in Fowler's Phrenological Journal,
of August, 1843, from Rev. Dr. BEECHER,
In October, 1842, on my way to the Synod l1f Genesee, I
8pent the night at the house of Mr. HALL, at Byron. In the
evening I cafled on Rev. Mr. CazLos. On.entering the room,
I found his son, an intelligent boy, aged ten Y:ears, tl_1en in a
eataleptic fit, sitting in his father'a arms, and hts feet m warm
water.
In a few moment6 he recovered. He frequently had from
three to six tits a day. Had received the best medical attend-
anee in the region. Was no better; daily worse. Had lost
entirely the power of speech for several days. Great fears
were klt that he would never recover. There was a sore
place on the back comer of his head and on the spine, occa-
sioned by a fall some months previous. When the fits passed
oft he became hungry, and not at all drowsy ; and durin~ the
iaterval, appeared preternaturally bright, and engaged in
sports with companions as usual. ·
After I had conversed a few minutes, I said, "I would h&ve
him Magnetised '(' to which his father replied, "I don't be-
.Iie-.e ~ it at aUt,. and the mother added, "If you'll pu& ,... to
oigit,zed by Coogle
78 AfPEMDIX.
Bleep I'll believe, and not without." I replied, "I would try
it : it may do good, and can do no harm." During this con-
versation, I made a few passes in front of the child, chiefly
with one hand, and without any particular concentration of
the mind or will, and mostly with my face toward the mother.
In less than a minute the father said, "He is in another fit !
.No, he isn't, I declare : I believe he is asleep." Much sur-
prised, (for l had never Magnetised one,) I said, "It surely
can not be what I have done ; but if so I can awaken him;"
then with a few reversed passes he awoke. "Well, this is
strange,'' said I," but I can put him to sleep again, if it is real."
I then seriously repented the passes with both hands for one
or two minutes, and placed him in the perfect Mesmeric sleep.
I then fixed my eyes on a lady on the opposite side of the
room, the boy not yet having- spoken for three days, and said,
"HENRY, what do you see?" in a full decided voice. Here-
plied," AzusAa." I then looked his mother in the face, say-
ing, "What do you see?" He gave a name unknown to me;
I looked to his father, who replied, " it is her maiden name."
I then took vinegar into my mouth, and said, " What do you
taste ?" " Vinegar," speaking with great tartness, and at the
same time making many contortions of the face. The mo-
ther now whispered to one of the children, who left her seat,
and ~ said, "HENRY, what is she going for?" "Sugar, and I
love tt." She went to the closet, and brought the sugar. I
put some in~u my mouth, which seemed to give him the same
pleasure as 1f I 1'1811 put it in his own. I then said, "What
kind of sugar is it?" " Muscovado." " What is its color?"
"Well sir, a kind of light brown." A small glass jar with a
large cork was now placed in my hand, when immediately I
observed the olfactory nerves affected, and the muscles about
the nose contracted at the s~e momeilt. I said to the girl,
'' What is it?" to which the boy answered, "Hartshorn."
"How do you know?" "I smell it." I myselfneither knew
nor smelt. I then took out the cork and applied it to my own .
nose, when he instantly placed his fingers on that }?IU't of the
nose next the forehead, and said, "I feel it here," JUSt where
I myself experienced the burning sensation.
During all these experiments he sat on his father's knee,
with his head down on his breast, and reclining against his
father. .
I now asked him, " What is the matter with you 1" uMy
brain is sore." " Where?" "At the bottom of it." "Where
it joins the spinal marrow (medulla oblongata) 1" "Yes.,
o191t1zed by Coogle
APPENDIX, 79
'' What occasioned it'1" I fell from the great beam in the
barn." His mother here asked him, "Why did you not tell
us before 1" " I feared you would not let me play there."
" Can Doctor A. cure you 1" ·" No." "Why not 1" "He
don't know any thing about it," (very decidedly.) -"Can Dr.
C. 1" " No." " \Yhy 1" "He don't understand it." "Will
the medicine you now use do you good 1" "No." ''Of what
is it composed 1" " There is turpentine in it." " Does the
Doctor give it you for tape worm 1" u Yes." ''Have you
any 1'' "No." "Would you like to walk '1" " Yes." " Well,
walk." He arose promptly, stepped between the chairs, and
said, "Well, sir, where shall I go 1" "From the wall to the
door, and back." This he did, avoiding every obstruction,
and at my direction returned and satagain with his father. I
now without notice to any one, placed my fingers on the or-
gan of Benevolence, thinking at the moment it performed the
office of Veneration, and said, ''Would you like to pray 1"
'Vith some lightness he said, no. Some questions were asked
by his mother and myself about the Bible, &c., but no Vene-
ration appeared. I then recollected the true office of the or-
gan, and sa!d, "Have you any thing in your pocket1" He
took out a knife. "Give it to me for my little boy," which he
did promptly. I removed my hand. "Have you any thing
else 1" " I have a pencil." " Will yon give me that for my
other boy 1" "It has no head.'' "Never mind, give it, won't
you 1" "I shouldn't like to." " Well, but you will?" I
couldn't come it !" (with peculiar emphasis.) AzuBAH said,
ask him where the head of the pencil is. " Where is it, HEN-
RY'!" 11 Well, sir, in the parlor." "Where?" "On the win-
dow.'' AzuBAH : '' Why, I picked it up and put it there to-
day!" (He certainly did not know this.) I then said,
"HENRY, can you get it1'1 He arose, and went into the parlor
in the dark, and took the pencil-case head ftom the window,
to the very great surprise of us all. Indeed, we were all so
astonished, that it seemed a dream during these and subse-
quent proceedings. He spoke with a promptness, boldness,
and propriety, in advance of his years, and beyond himself
in h1s natural state; and so perfectly evident was it that he
was in a somnambulic state, that no sceptic, I verily believe,
could have doubted.
At my request he returned to his seat. I touched Benevo-
lence, and instantly he handed me the pencil-case. "For my
boy?" "Yes, sir." I then silently, and without any willing,
and with a feeling of curiosity to ~ee and test the matter,
-
o191t1zed by Coogle
80 APPENDIX.
touched Reverence. His countenance at once assumed a sof..
tened and solemn aspect. "HENRY, would you like to pray'J"
"Yes, sir." "You may." He then commenced praying in-
audibly. "You may pray aloud." He then prayed in o.low,
audible voice. On touching Tune, he sang a tune, though not
in a habit ofsingin~. On touching Combativeness and De-
structiveness, he ratsed his clenched fist to strike me. He was
ignorant of Phrenology, and also of my intention to touch any
particular organ; nor did I in any case will the activity of
the organ. I now took out my watch, and holdin~ the dial
towarc! myself, and above the line of his vision, his eyes be-
ing closed, and his head bowed forward, and my hand also
bemgbetween him nnd the watch. "HENRY, what time is it'P'
"Eight o'clock, sir," which was exactly the time by the
watch, though by the clock in the room it was fifteen minutes
faster. "HENRY, how long ought you to sleep'J" "Well,
sir, I must sleep two hours and five minutes." "Will you
then awake 1" "Yes, sir." "Very well." This I did for
the purpose of testing his knowledge of time, aa stated by
TowNSHEND, an English clergyman, whose work on this
subject I had read.
I then said," Will yon go with me to Mr. HALL's 'I" "'Yes."
" Well, now we are therei_we are in the parlor : who is here'I"
''Mr. and Mrs. HALL ; Mr. and Mrs. BARDWELL." " Who
else?'' He did not give their names, but intimated that they
were strangers. He described the room and position ofthings,
all of which I found correct on going to the house shortly
after. These persons were not in the habit of being there in
the evening, but company having come in, they were all to-
·gether at that moment. As this was in his own town, I did
not deem it proof, and so said, " Will you go to Batavia1"
11 Yes.'~ " Well, now we nre there, now we are at my house
-now we will ,go into my room : what do you see 'P' " I
see o. large table covered with black cloth, and with books
and papers scattered -over it." "How large is it 1" ''It is
about five feet long." "How many book cases 1" "Three,
sir." "What sort of a stove 1'' He could not or did not de-
scribe this, for it was so queer a thing as not to be easily de-
scribed. Nor did I press him, for all his answers had been
perfectly correct, and I was sufficiently astonished, for be
'had never seen my study, and no other minister, I am sure,
has such a table (5 feet by 3!) or left in such confusion as
mine was at that moment.
I may here say, that during the whole period of his slt!ep,
o191t1zed by Coogle
APPENDIX. 81
he could hear the questions of others put to him, and would
answer them, if I were willing ; but ifl willed otherwise, or
forbade him to speak, as I often did, he then would answer no
one but myself, not even father or mother; nor could he hear
their conversation with me, nor with each other. -
I now left him for an hour, and went back to Mr. HALL's,
giving him leave to converse only with his father. On my
return, I found him in the same state. He utterly refused
to speak to any one but his father, nod told him that he should
not have another fit till the following Sabbath, (this was Mon-
day evening,) wh_ich proved true; but when that day came,
he had several.
At nine o'clock and three minutes, holding my watch as
before, and standing eight or nine feet from him, I asked the
time. He gave nine o'clock and five minutes. "Look sharp,''
said I. " Oh ! three minutes," said be. We were now cu-
rious to see if he would awake himself at the two hours and
five minutes : and ~the clock in the room reached that time
he did not awake, I said, "HENRY, did you mean by my
watch, or by the clock '1" 11 By your watch, sir." "Very
well." At the exact moment he opened his eyes and looked
around, and this without any act or willing of mine ; and
what was very affecting and convincing, he could no longer
speak at all, and was unconscious of all that he had said or
done.
I have said that he had no return of fits till the following
Sabbath. One day after that Sabbath, he came in to his
mother much agitated, and apparently going into a tit, and
making the passes, he solicited his mother to do it, who,
merely to pacify him, passed her fingers over him, and soon
he fell into the Mesmeric sleep, and escaped the fit. After
this he was so highly charged by his sister, that when she
was ia the next room in the closet, he would instantly taste
any thing she tasted, eat what she ate, &c.
In ten days I retu.rned and Magnetised him again, and
went through several of the above experiments. He always,
w~ile in the Mesmeric state, declared that it benefited .him,
reheved all pain, and would cure him.
After I left, at my suggestion, he was daily Magnetised:
his fits left him, his voice returned, the sore spots on his head
and back were removed, and he recoV'efed l'apidly, till the
family could no longer Magnetise him. A man in the vil-
lage was found, who could and daily did, till he appeared
entirely well. On o~ting it he ,had.a tit or two, Uld it!RS
11
o,9itized by Coogle
82 APPENDIX.
resumed; aud when I last saw the father, he informed me
that they considered the child cured. ·
I mny add, I have since cured tooth ache, greatly reliend
tic doloreux, and removed other pains and swellings, as well
as head ache. I am not, however, a full believer in all which
is affirmed of clairvoyants--what I see and know I believe.
In respect to many well authenticated facts, I neither affirm
nor deny. That there are ml,\ny cases of gross deception and
imposition,I fully believe. On such a subject, it can hardly
be otherwise. This, however, is a reason why men of cha-
racter and intelligence should in'Dcstigate it, rather than
otherwise. "But, it is deception!" Well, then, let us expose
it by a fair trial. "But, it is the work of the devil !" How
do you know 1 What is the evidence 1 What harm bas it
done 1 "Oh, bad men have used it for bad ends!" And what.
is there in the world that bas not been so used 1 If it is the
work of the devil, then we are not to be ignorant of his de-
vices, and should make the examination for one's self, fo·r
ignorant and bad men will not expose his devices. From
experiment and observation, I have no doubt, that as a re-
medial agent, Mesmerism is yet to accomplish much good ;
and no harm can result from it, except, like all other bless-
ings, it be abused.
wM. H. BEECHER.
Boston, June 28, 1843.
The following, extracted from the Pennsylvanian, is a de-
tail of some experiments upon a young man who, although
he exhibited many ofthe different phenomena, yeton account
of the natural dullness of his mind, was not so clear as many
others.
" The subjoined detail of some very curious and interest-
fn~ experiments in Animal Magnetism, which were tried in
th1s city yesterday, is from the pen of the same gentleman
.who furnished ns with a paper upon the same subJect a few
days since, and upon whose accuracy and impartiality, as
·was then remarked, every reliance may be placed :
· "Animal Magnetism.-We were yesterday favored with ·
an opportunity of witnessing some private experiments in
Magnetism made by a Medical Professor of this city, of the
·highest eminence, who had never attempted any thing of the
·kind before, and who, we conclude, was at least a partial
sceptic previous to the trial.
"'l'he subject was a young man who accompanied Mr.
JOHNSoB. Dr. H. succeeded, in a short time, in putting him
oigit,zed by Coogle
APPENUIX. 8S
into the Magnetic sleep. The round, or cir.cular part of a
key, of unusual construction, was taken from his pocket by
the doctor, and held behind his head, he standing behind
him, and be being blinded by a bandage. He said it was
round and bright, but could not be induced to name it. 'I'he
doctor stepped back and stood still. Directly the patient's
right arm was raised. The doctor stated that he had willed
him to. raise the left arm. A thimble was handed by us to
the doctor, who held It behind his head. He bein~ nsked by
him what it was, said it was 'white.' Being asked ngaiu,
said it was ' silver.' Being asked the name, he said 'it was
some thing to put on the hand.' We took a piece of paper
and marked on it with a pencil, the letter A. Dr. H. held it
to the back of his head, and asked what it was. He replied,
' paper.' What is on it 1 ' Letters.' How many 1 ' One.'
"What is the name of it 1 •A.'
"A long purse was held, so that the two ends hung down
like two globes. Being nsked, he said 'it wus round things.'
What is mside 1 'Some thing which shim~s.'
"A circular fan was held behind. He said 'it was.round.'
' What color 1' 'Dark;' which was correct. ' What is it.'
He made no answer, but made a motion with his hand like
twirling a fan. He was asked again. 'Something to <Jo so,'
repeating the motion of the hand.
"The doctor then put some tobacco in his mouth, and
chewed it, without naming any thing of the mouth or taste ;
he asked-' what is the matter 1' 'It tastes bad.' 'How 1'
cSickish, or like liquorice,' the answer not being distinct.
We pinched the doctor's ear. He moved his head. ' What
is the matter 11 'Pinching my ear.' We pinched his hand
severely. He exclaimed, ' oh, don't do so !' 'How 1' 'Hurt-
ing my hand.'
"The doctor opened his mouth wide, and he willed, as he
afterward stated, that he should do the same, he did not do
so but expressed uneasiness, and said, ' 0 1 don't.' It is to
be observed that M~onetised persons will not willingly do
that which they think unseemly when awake. We saw
another gentleman, whom the operator willed that l}.e should
put out his tongue. He ID.IlCle several movements with the
mouth and throat, but did not put it out.
''Dr. H. next asked the patient to walk with him, to which
he consented. After a little"time he said, 'what do you see.'
'A large building.' 'What else?' 'Steps.' 'What am l
looking at 1' 'Nothing bnt the building.' 'What do yoq
o191t1zed by Coogle
APPENDIX.
see now 1' 'A high large window.' 'What do you see now 'J'
•Very curious looking things. I don't know the name.'
"As the doctor afterward informed us, he had taken him,
in imagination, to the University building, and into a room
where were the mastadon bones, and a high window.
"H& then asked him •what he saw in this room.' 'A
~ many queer things down in that dark corner. 1 don't
flke to look nt them, I don't want to stay here.'
" The doctor afterward stated, that he had gone in his
mind to Dr. HAa~:<:'s lecture room, and fixed his attention
upon the apparatus in the corner of the room.
"He then said, 'what do you see now 1' ' 'fhis looks
pleasanter.' 'What do you see 'P 'Books, books.'
"He stated that he had gone in imagination into the library,
and had fixed his mind more particularly on a telescope
which was near the books.
"It should be observed, that the doctor kept his thoughts
to himself the whole time, and that the explanations which
we have inserted in the progress of the experiment, were not
made by him to the company, till the end of it.
" The doctor then declared, that it did appear from the
trial made, that the patient had a perception of what was
going on in his mind. We believe all present were of the
same opinion.
''At the time the patient's hand was raised, the doctor
crossed behind his chair, from one side of the room to the
other. The arm then changed its position, the hand being
moved in the direction in which the doctor stood, without
being put down."
We find this in a number of the New-Haven Herald, pub-
lished in 1842. The writer is one of the many scientifie
gentleman of that city :-
'' We have the following communication from one of our
inost respectable citizens, in whom there is neither guile nor
deception. The facts stated are truly wonderful :-
,,MEssas EoiToas :-The science of Phreno-Magnetism,
has but few believers in New-Haven, and still fewer warm
and enthusiastic advocates. Bu,t as the subject has not been
Without its interest, even amoug the sceptical of oar fair
city, a brief statement of facts, to which the writer was oa
Wednesday evening a witness, may not prove uninteresting
~~re•~ ,
•· It has been my goOd fortune twice, within the lut ten
days, to witness, in a sister city, successful exhibition& of
o191t1zed by Coogle
AI'PJ::NlJlX.
Magnetic pOwer. 'l'he first experiments were made before a
private party in the Hartford City Hotel, and were of an ex-
traordinary character-affording to all present, conclusive
evidence of Mesmeric intlnence. But the experiments of
Wednesday evening, far exceeded the others in variety, and
few who witnessed them, could longer doubt the existence
of some strange, mysterious agent, that assists mind to com-
municate with mind, and thought to respond to thought,
without material or external aid.
''This last exhibition was given at the house of one of our
most distinguished public men, in the presence of several
ladies and gentlemen ofour own city, and a large assemblage
of intelligent citizens of Hartford. The Magnetiser was a
young gentleman of great moral and religious worth, con-
nected with the college in that place. The subject of his
experiments, was an interesting married lady, of high intel-
lectual cultivation, most respectably connected, and of un-
impeachable integrity. In neither of them can there be the
slightest possible motive for attempting to deceive their re-
spective friends or the puhlic; her motive being, as I learn,
some beneficial effects upon her health, which are supposed
to result from the Magnetic condition, united with a willing-
ness, on her part, to be placed in this condition, in presence
of an invited few, that she may aid scientific and candid
minds in their investigations into the phenomena that attend
the Mesmeric state.
" The first experiment perfoxmed, was by several rapid
Magnetic passes down the lady's arms, the result of which
was, their instant horizontal extension, the muscles to the
very extremities of the fingers, being in a state of rigidity
truly frightful-a rigidity which none of us could induce her
to relax, but which was removed by a few upward Magnetic
passes, when the arms fell in their natural state. The next
experiment was through the exercise of the Magnetiser's
will. The lady was sitting in a rocking chair, moving
genlly, when he willed that the movement cease. He then
willed a renewal of the motion, to which she instantly re-
sponded. The same experiment was repeated, under differ-
ent circumstances, but with a like result. To determine the
degree of sympathy between the Magnetiser and the lady, a
~lergyman present, gave the band of the former a most un-
cllristian pinch. The lady started and rubbed her hand,
complaining of pain on the very spot corresponding to the
part dc.OO in the Nffering Magnetiser. This sympathy
o191t1zed by Coogle
i
I
v
96 -APPENDIX.
was farther proved by giving to him various substances to
taste. In doing this, the Maguetiser stood behind her chair,
and no intimation was given to her of the nature of the ex-
periment. But she immediately manifested_ a satisfaction or
disgust corresponding to that of the Magnetiser, and named
the substance tasted.
"At one time she left her sent, complaining that some thing
in n distant part of the room disturbed her. She walked
rapidly toward a corner, and not finding the cause of her
uneasiness: she turned to a table where had just been placed
a stick of sealing wax, und was putting her hand over it,
when a gentleman who was aware of the unpleasant effects
of electrical substances upon' her, instantly removed it from
the room, and she ,returned to h~r chair relieved. To test
this D)Ore fully, another gentleman brought back the sealing
wax, and rubbed it on his sleeve not far from her. She in-
stantly arose, complaining that some thing still annoyed her,
and was not composed till the cause of her uneasiness was
again removed. An eminent lawyer being introduced to her,
she began with him the discussion of some legal question,
astonishing us by the clearness of her conceptions, or keep-
ing us in a roar of laughter by the lively sallies of her wit.
During this conversation, some one behind placed his hand
near her head without ~onching it. She instantly evidenced
embarrassmAnt, forgot the subject of discussion, and could
not go ou with it until the hand was removed.
"'rhe Magnctiser then placing his hand upon her forehead,
her recollection was restored and the conversation renewed.
'I'he Magnetiser then touched the organ of Veneration, when
she abruptly terminated the discussion, assumed an attitude
of devotion, and refused all farther communication with the
physical world. Her devotion being.ended, she was put in
communication with a scientific gentleman, with whom she
held a long, interesting conversation, on the subject of Ani-
mal Magnetism; boldly controverting his arguments, and
giving her own view of this extraordinary science, with great
clearness of thought and beauty of expression. And here
she seemed like an ethereal being-a being of another crea-
tion-and, in the language of the eminent divine,to whose
church she belongs, 'she appeared perfectly sublimated.' After
this she astonished all by determining with wonderful accu-
racy, the phrenological character of various individuals pre-
sent, and described with most minute exactness, their several
diseases, acuteor chronic, incipient or confirmed. In another
o191t1zed by Coogle
APPENDIX. 81
room the Magt\etiser directed her to 'go to sleep for just two
minutes and a half, then to wake for half a minute, and then
to go to sleep again.' A dozen watches were instantly noting
the time-that of the Mngnetiser being taken from him to
prevent the very possibility of a collusion. 'l'he lady placed
her head in the natural position of a person reposing in a
rocking chair, and in precisely the time designated, began to
rub her eyes, which she partially opened for the space of 30
seconds, when she closed them again, and relnpsed into the
Ma~netic sleep.
"-Many other experiments were tried during the continu-
ance of her Magnetic state, in which she remained from ij
o'clock till 11; but I can give only a description of the last
one, which was to me peculiarly gratifyina. A gentleman
present, was requested to sing and play a German song for
her. 'fhe first note struck brought her to the piano, when
during the prelude she persisted in standing, but the moment
he commenced the song she sat down by him, and with a
full, sweet voice, accompanied him in the very words he
sang, nlthqugh in her natural state, she hM no knowledge of
that language. She then accompanied a French gentleman
in one of the songs of his country, and afterward began
again the German·song, which the pianist had been requested
to sing once more. During the performance of this, she
was demagnetised, and, of course, discontinued her accom-·
paniment. Being asked by the writer, why she stopped, and
if she would not still accompany the other voice, she replied
that she knew neither the words nor the air.
"These, Messrs. Editors, are facts, witnessed by several
ofour citizens-facts which can not be denied, however seep..
tics may try to account for them ; and as such I give them
to you without farther comment."
The following extract, from the Philadelphia Spirit of the-
Times, is one of the most conclusive evidences of the truth
of Animal Magnetism. Mr. NEAL is a man of too much
character to be suspected.
" By special invitation, we attended yesterday morning a
private exhibition, at the_room of Mr. JoHNSON, the cele-
brated Magnetiser, whose experiments at the Masonic Hall,
are just .now. the talk of the whole city, and attract every
evening crowds of the most incredulous, curious, inquisitive,
scientific, and unlearned of our city.
ct When we entered his private chamber, (it was at Mrs.
REYNOLD's boarding House, in Chesnut above Seventh st••)
o191t1zed by Coogle
88 APPENDIX.
we found already present, JosEPH C. NEAL, Editor of the
Pennsylvanian, and talented author of the popular 'Charcoal
Sketches,' RowLAND PA.RRY1 of the same paper, Dr. REv-
NELL COATES, a gentleman celebrah>d in the annals of medi-
cine and science; THOMAS EARL, EDWARD M. DAVIS, and
JAMES M. McKtM1 Esq.
"At the request of a sceptic, Mr. JoHNSON stood aside,
while Dr. CoA.TES undertook to manipulate a lady who had
been frequently Magnetised. He succeeded admirably, and
in a brief period, put her into a state that every gentleman
present wns compelled to acknowledge both extraordinary -
and wonderful. It was a sleep, but one differing in all ita
elements from the common sleep, and hence called a ' Mag-
netic Somnolency'-the subject being under the complete
control, mentally, of Dr. CoATEs, the Magnetiser, while phy-
sically, she was insensible as a marble statue.
"As the principal object of Mr. JoHNSON was to satisfy in~
telligent gentlemen that he was no 'humbug,' and in profess-
ing to develope to a .certain extent, the hidden mysteries of
the Magnetic science, he did no more than he was warranted
by facts to attempt, we say nothing about the experimeDtl!l in
clairvoyance, but confine ourself to the statement, that be
d·id succeed, on thi3 occasion, in demonstrating b-eyond the
possibility ofdispute, (though none but a few ignorant <JU!Acks
m science, medicine, and letters, have ventured, in this city,
to dispute it,) that there was such a thing as' MagtUtie
Bleep,' and that he was capable, without uti.fice or col~n,
of producing it.
" To satisfy the minds of the gentleman present still more,
and in order to leave no 'loop to hang a doubt upon,' Mr.
JoHNSON Magnetised the right arm of a young friend. It
became as rigid as stone, and had all the appearance ofdeath,
accompanied with, as usual, the total loss of all sensibility.
Some of the gentlemen stuck a pin into her arm, until the
blood came, while the young lady laughingly exclaimed that
it produced no sensation. Mr. JoaNSON then went so far
as to make a deep incision into her hand with a pen knife-
a shocking, and to us, a cruel experiment-but she only
laughed at the operation, and,observed, that for all the feel-
ing it could occasion, her finger, or whole hand might suffer
amputation. There could be no ' humbug' in this ; and aU
who examined it, voluntarily made such a statement.
"Mr. JoHNSON was fearful that he had notquite convinced
. the sceptical, and proposed to partially Mogneme JosEPH
o191t1zed by Coogle
APPEKDU::.
C. NEAL, Esq., the Editor of the Pennaylvania.n. The
company joyfully assented, for of course, no individual ac-
quainted with Mr. NEAL, could for a moment suspect him
of a disposition to assist in the composition of a ' humbug.'
Mr. NEAL took a seat, and in five minutes, all the muscles
of his face were thrown into such a state of paralysis, that
be was unable to open his eyes, articulate at aU, or even
open his mouth.
' What are your sensations, Mr. NEAL 1' interrogated the
Magnetiser. '
Mr. NEAL made several violent, and contortive efforts to
speak-twisting his chin, and agitating his lips-but not a
sound escaped him.
" 'Open your ~es.'
" He attempted it, but without success••
" ' Can you see 'I'
'' The lips and chin exhibited convulsive motion, but there
was nothing articulated.
" ' Can you hear 1'
" The same motion, but no reply.
"As his arms and hands were not Magnetised, a pencil
and paper were placed in his fingers.
"It will be remembered that Mr. NEAL was only in a par-
tially Magnetic state, it being impossible for Mr. JoHNSON to
Ma~netise any person fully and thoroughly on the first ex-
periment.
"Mr. NEAL then wrote in a clear, bold hand-much
clearer and bolder than he usually employs-the lines run-
ning downward, as a man with his eyes closed would natu-
rally write-'I can hear acutely, more so than common.'
"In a minute afterward, Mr. NEAL wakened up of him-
self, as if from a state of deep sleep ; and in reply to a ques-
tion of our own, remarked that this was the third time he
had been thrown into such a state-having been twice Mag-
netised by a lady before-say a year or so ago.
''This experiment, of course, thrust aside all scepticism.
We presume that no man, be he an editor, a physician, or
any thing else, will now pretend to doubt the existence of
Animal Magnetism, or the ability of one individual to render
another powerless, and deprive him or ·her of all physical
action and sensibility. 'l'his much is established. He who
contradicts it will only expose his vanity and conceit to pub-
lic ridicule. The opinions of such men as Drs. HoRNER,
12
o191t1zed by Coogle
90 APPENDIX.
CoATEs, and MoRRis, are not to be impugned by seiolists in
matters relating to human physiology; though that some
silly ones, puffed up with self importance, ever have been,
and always will stand ready to attack the opinions of the
wisest, is to be expected, since ,
'Fool• ruah in l!:,here angela fear to tread?
precisely because they are too ignorant to be aware of the
danger.''
During our experiments some months since, at Cincinnati,
a correspondent gave the following account of them to the
Editor of the Republican, to whom we are indebted for this
copy:-
" Many of the most interesting and succJssful experintents
I have yet witnessed, were made by Mr. JoHNSON on Thurs-
day evening last. His two subjects, Miss HARRIET and
FREDERicK, were put into a Mesmeric sleep. A gentleman,
wholly disconnected with the operator, made a request on a
slip of paper, that Mr. JoHNSON would will Miss HARRIET
to rise from her seat, descend from the stage, and go down
stairs into the outer room, then return to her place, passing
on her return round the opposite side of the stage from which
she.descended. The whole of this experiment was accom-
plished, (she being blindfold,) except that she, on her return,
ascended the same side of the stage she descended. A small
walking cane, having a dog's head made of white bone, on
the end, mounted with gold,'and the name of the owner en-
graved upon a slip of the gold on the forehead of the dog,
was now handed to Mr..JoHNSoN, with a request that the
sleepers should describe it. On being asked what it was he
held in his hand, both instantly answered, 'some thing long
and round,'' some thing on the end ofit.' Miss HARRIET said,
'a queer )ittle thing,' 'some writing on the top of it,' 'looks
bri&"ht like si~ver,' •dog's head on the end of It.' Frederick
said, 'a queer little thing made of bone on the end of it,'
' writing on there.' Both said, ' to hold in the hand,' 'to go
along with/ and various other equally accurate and remarka-
ble expressions, clearly showing they saw the article dis-
t1nctly through the mind of the operator. A bunch ofgreen
plants and flowers, sent up by a lady, was next desired to
be described. Both described it accurately-both said it 'be-
longed to a lady,' 'looked pretty,'' that's good,' and on Mr.
JoHNSON smelling it, Miss HARRIET said, 'smells sweet,'
'oh ! what pretty flowers.' A silver snuff box, with lettel'8
o191t1zed by Coogle
APPENDIX, 91
plainly engraved upon it, was then handed to Mr. J., with a
request that the letters should be described. This, both of
them failed to accomplish. Miss H. stating the number to be
seven, when there were nine-and making two or three mis-
takes as to the name of the letters. Mr. JoHNSON remarked,
that he had rarely been able to obtain, from either of the
subjects, accurate descriptions of letters. 1'his was the only
experiment in which there was a decided failure, so far as I
recollect, in the whole course of the evening. Another suutf
box, of a dark color, having a handsome painting of a lady
on the lid, was then desired to be described. Both imme-
diately remarked, 'ah ! that's dark,' 'painting on there,' one
·said, the other, ' some thing pretty on there.' Miss HARRIET
said.on t:'lrther interrogation, 'a face there,' 1 a lady,' 'ruffles
round the neck,'' pink handkerchief;' all these were pre· ,
cisely descriptive of the picture. A gold watch was then
handed Mr. JoHNSON. Both said it was '·a gold watch,'" and
on being desired to tell the time, both said, after apparently
cbuilting up the figures, 'twenty-five minutes,' and then
some thing indistinctly about 'nine'-it in reality wanted
twenty-five minutes of ten by that watch, but it was precisely
twenty-five minutes after nine by other watches,..present.
"Mr. JoHNSON's ear was severely pinched-both imme-
diately exhibited signs of being hurt, and on being asked
what was the matter, said 'don't like that,'-' hurts,'-' where
are you hurt 1' was asked-Miss H. said,' on the head,' a~
the same time putting her hand to her ear. Mr. J.'s hair was
then pulled, both said,-' don't like that,' 'hurts,'-' pulling
hair.' Mr. J. now took some tobacco in his mouth; both
immediately began to move their lips, and make wry faces-
both said, 'don't like that,' 'bad.' On being asked what it
was, Miss H. answered 'tobacco.' All these answers were
reported by the committee appointed for the purpose :-they
were Dr. LATTA, EsQUIRE StNGER, and Mr. PLUMMER.
I myself stood by the side of Miss HARRIET, and distinctly"
heard the answers I have detailed. As FREDERICK: was
talking at the same time, and was some distance from me, I.
did not hear half he said, but his answers, many of which
were not reported,) seemed to give entire satisfaction to those
near him, and often times excited a good deal of amuse-
ment.
" Mr. JoHNSON now announced he would make some
Phrenological experiments-and began by exhibiting a dis-
o191t1zed by Coogle
92 APPENDIX.
covery which he and Dr. PARNELL, (the Phrenologist,) had
that day made. Mr. J. gave Dr. P. the credit of making
the discovery, n.s the experiments were made at his sugges-
tion. Mr. J. said, nothing of the kind, had ever, to his
knowledge, been noticed by writers on the subject, and as
Dr._P. claimed it to be original with him, it was but fair he
should have the credit of the discovery. It was claimed
that each phrenological organ on the head, had a pole, or
sympathetic point of the face. Mr. J. placed the ends of his
fore fingers on the corner of Miss HARRIET's mouth, she
immediately began to smile and looked pleased. It was
claimed that these were the sympathetic points or poles of
t~e organ of Mirthfulness. The finger was now placed on
the latter org~n, and she commenced laughing immoderately.
The finger was then placed on the point of the chin, as the
pole of the organ of Combativeness--.she immediately
clenched her fists, scowled, and exhibited other signs of
combativeness, but afterward, to a much a greater extent,
when the organ of Combativeness was itself pre..ssed. These
experiments clearly showed that there are sympathetic points
in the face with the various organs of the brain, as delinea-
ted by Phrenologists. Various Phrenological experiments
were then made, and all with the most triumphant success.
One wn.s remarkable 'to a great d~~ree. The organ of Tune
was pressed; immediately Miss H. began singing the Cra-
covienne; Mr. J. then pressed the organ of Veneration, still
holding his finger on the organ of Tune; she instantly
changed ,the air, and commenced singing Old Hundred.
What is very astonishing, and conclusively proves that there
was no deception whatever in the experiments, whenever an
organ of Miss HARRIET's was pressed, FREDERICK, who
was some distance from her, and who was not touched at all,
would exhibit the same passion or faculty exhibited by her,
and cor~sponding with the claims of Phrenologists-and so
vice versa. For instance,-the moment Miss HARRIET's
organ of Tune was excited, they both began to sing, and
when FREDERICK's organ of Combativeness was excited,
both immediately made the most pugnacious demonstrations.
Nothing can be more complete, than the proof, which these
experiments afford, of the truth of Phrellology.
"I know not when I have been more gratified, than by the
experiments of Mr. JoHNSON on that evening; they could not
have failed, I should suppose, to convince every person pre-
aent of the undoubted truth of both Mesmerism and Phre-
o191t1zed by Coogle
----- -~ - --
.APPENDIX. 93
nology, and such seemed to be the sentiments o( every one
I heard express an opinion on the subject. C."
Amputatiun of a Limb.-The Editor of the Bangor
Courier, gives au account of a surgical operation in that
city, which he witnessed on Saturday-the patient having
been previously thrown into the Magnetic sleep by Dr.
T.JEARE. 'l'he operation was the painful one of amputating
a leg, and was performed by Dr. Hos~;A RrcH, a.•••sisted by
several other gentlemen, up()n LUTHER C,\REY1 whose leg,
from infancy, had been deformed, and had caused him much
pain and inconvenience. The Editor of the Courier says:
" During the operation, the patient complained of a sen-
sation in the bottom of his foot, as though some one was
pricking it ; and at one time, for a brief period, appeared to
be rousm~ from the Magnetic state, and half conscious, by
suspicion at least, that the operation had commenced, and at
this time there was quite a struggle and much muscular
action ; but he was soon thrown more fully into the Mag-
netic state, and was then quite unconscious of what was
going on; entering into conversation respecting the opera-
tion, and proposing that it be postponed until the next week,
&c., and insisting, even after the leg was amputated, that he
would not have it done until it was fully paralysed, at the
same time expressing some doubt whether the doctor would
be able to accomplish this. After the operntion had been per-
formed and the limb dressed, Mr. CAREY was placP-d in his
bed, being still in the Magnetic state, and was induced to
sing. His aged, widowed mother was called, and entered
the room just as he was singing with much zeal, which
greatly affected the aged woman, and she burst into tears.
Mr. CAREY was now taken out of the Magnetic sleep, and
on rousing up appeared quite startled on seeing the company
present ; and, speaking to his sister and to his mother, a shade
of sadness passed over his countenance, as he told them, he
had postponed having the operation performed, until the doc-
tor should be more successful in paralysing his leg. A pass-
ing smile over all countenances, led him to suspect there
might be something in the wind, and it then occurred to
him that he was in bed, and in attempting to rise, he was
cautioned not to do it, upon which he remarked, that perhaps
his leg was off, and he was placed in bed. Upon beina as-
sured of the fact, he in great glee cried out, ' Good ! I am
glad the old leg is off!' He then stated that the only sen-
sation he had experienced was like that of some one prick-
ing the bottom of his foot."
oigit,zed by Coogle
.A.PPENDlX.
neck, and perfectly firm in the socket. After stating to the
audience the prerise condition of the tooth, they requested
that I should extract it; which I declined doing, supposing
that there was some one present who had been selected by
the Magnetiser for the purpose. After the lady was 'tho-
roughly put to sleep,' the audience again called upon me to
extract th.e tooth, but not being provided with instruments, a
considerable time elapsed before they could be procured, and
when all was ready, I applied, from the peculiar situation and
condition of the tooth, the key instrument, and in turning
the tooth outward, from n slight curvation of the fangs, the
external portion of the socket gave way from the force used,
and it became necessary to change the instrument for another,
with which I removed the tooth. During the whole time of
the operation, I could not discover in the sleeper the slightest
manifestation of feeling, or the least emotion, nor did the po-
sition of the moutQ.change in the slightest degree, during the
necessary delay .occasioned by changing the instruments.
'l'he audience unanimously expressed their high satisfaction
at the complete success of the Mngnetiser's power, and also
their firm conviction that there was not the slightest attempt
at deception or collusion in the whole matter. Being re-
quested by Messrs. BRowNE and PIKE, with whom I am
wholly unacquainted, never having seen either of them until
I came into this room this evening, it gives me much plea-
sure to furnish them with the above statement· of facts, just
as they occurred, in justice to them, and also in giving another
well attested proof of the truly surprising and wonderful
influence Mesmerism has upon the physical frame.
ELEAZAR P.ARMLY, No. 1, Bond st.
THE END.
o191t1zed by Coogle
