{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__olcott___animal_electricity.pdf","mytitle":"Animal Electricity","mylang":"de"}
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY;
OR THE
ELECTRIC SCIENCE;
AN
APPLICATION OF THE PRIJ\IARY LAWS OF NATURE,
NEVER BEFORE DISCOVERED AND DEMON-
STRATED; TO A SOLUTION
OF ALL THE
PHYSICAL AND INTELLECTUAL PHENOMENA THAT EXIST.
BY JAMES S. OLCOTT, A. M.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY N. S. MAGOON,
No. 40 Snlem Street.
1844.
oioitized byGoogle
+
ENTERED ACCORDING 1'U ACT OF CONGRE:i!E!, IN THE YEAR
1844, BY JAMES S. OLCOTT, IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE OF THE
DISTRICT COURT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
PBil'fTED BY
WM. WRIT& AlfD H . r. L&WU.
oioitized byGoogle
TO THE PUBLIC.
In presenting this volume to his.fellow citizens, and the
world, the author is not insensible, as it regards the posi-
tion he sustains, and the responsibility he has assumed.
He is well aware that all great changes, either in belief or
practice, in each of the great lines of human confidence
and action, mustbe effected through the operation of causes
adequate to produce the effect; and that especially in
regard to science, the causes must be founded deep in
truth, and the change, while slowly progressive, be effected
by the operation of universal mind. Not less is he aware
that, when that science embraces as a whole, all others of
a human character, the causes must be proportionately
great; the exhibition of truth clear; the result protracted ;
and that, to the same extent, it must be the result of the
universal and concentrated effort of the master spirits of
the world, embracing the past, present and future--the
past and present having, by their individual efforts, discov-
ered facts ; established truths ; formed systems ; perfected
arts and sciences ; the future, to confirm, perfect, establish
and commend that which, as a primary law of physical
action, lays the foundation of a change deep in the UD•
changing and eternal necessity of things. In presenting,
oioitized byGoogle
vi TO THE PUBLIC.
therefore, to the world a new science, professt!dly embrac-
ing all others-or, in oilier words, a new system of
natural philosophy founded on the primary laws of nature
never before discovered ; he feels the necessity of exhib-
iting those laws in the light of fact, proof, demonstration
-with such clearness and certainty, as to make, on the
mind of the man of science, irresistible conviction. Rest-
ing on the labor of the past and present, for the materia
of truth ; and on that of the future, to defend and perfect
what he has commenced ; he is humble in his feelings and
pretensions, and asks nothing more, than for the sake of
truth and universal science, this system may receive a
candid, critical and profound investigation. If not true, it
ought at once to perish ; but if true, it will be thus the
more speedily and universally established.
JAMES S. OLCOTT.
oioitized byGoogle
CHAPTER I.
CHAPTER II.
CHAPTER III.
CHAPTER IV.
CHAPTER v.
CHAPTER VI.
CHAPTER VII.
CHAPTER VIII.
CHAPTER IX.
CONTENTS.
Unity of Matter
The Electric Fluid is this Unity
Nature ofthe Electric Fluid -
Mngnetism an Electric Effect -
Eliptic Motion is an Electric Effect
Vegetable Life and Death-Electric Effects
Animal Li~e and Death-Electric Effects
Instinct and Reason-one and the same.
And Reason superior in Man; because
of the more excellent organism of his
9
10
14
17
24
47
54
66
~~ ~
CHAPTER X. The Different Races of Men, Language,
Laws, Government, Religion 79
CHAPTER XI. Different Languages, Religions-Responsi-
bility, Free Agency 94
CHAPTER XII. Future Organic Existence in Man, after
Death 98
CHAPTER XIII. Food and Medicine- - 10::\
CHAPTER XIV. Purturition-Midwifery - - 104
CHAPTER [XV. Instruction in regard to Electric Operation
on a Subject - 107
DIFF:I:RENT THEORIES-ELECTRIC EF-
FECTS
PATHETJSll[
PHENOMENA Exi'LAINED -
BENEVOLl:NCE-THl: ART OF HAPPIN:I:SS
- 108
- 114
- 120
123
ligitizc· bvGoogle
Digitized by Coogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
CHAPTER I.
VNITY OF MA1'TER.
We start no new theory, nor do we affirm anything
calculated to effect or alarm.religious faith, when we affirm
that matter is a unity, and that all that can be seen, ad-
measured and known as different things, forms, elements,
are only modifications of matter. Ancient philosophers,
and the master spirits of the world, down to the present
day, have so believed and taught. The theological faith and
teaching of the whole religious world has coincided with
the philosophical. God and matter, is a phrase ofuniver-
sal use and acceptation, and the direct inference is, that
if there be unity as it regards God, there must of neces-
sity be as it respects matter. The word also conveys to
the mind the idea of unity. It is matter-" mater terra,"
mother earth; and, since we can have but one mother, so
also there can be but one procreative mass, out of which
all materialities are produced. This is moreover confirm-
ed by the fact, that chemical science is, as it progresses,
continually diminiShing the primary elements, and at the
present day has reduced them to four or five, and from
the fact that at almost every step, they are met by what is
called a' phenomena,' a 'mystery,' 'a fact as yet unaccount-
ed for, and perhaps never to be explained;' and we may
also add, from the fact, that mankind are universally wait-
ing for the discovery of some universal solvent, some key-
stone to the arch of science, some higher and primary
2
oioitized byGoogle
10 ANIMAL ZLECTRICITt'.
law of nature, by which all mysteries, as regards matter,
may be finally known, the temple of truth finished, and
her foundations secured. But if the theory of a unity in
matter has thus prevailed ; if it has been taught by the
great, wise and good from time immemorable ; if, as a cor-
relative, it is thus identified by the unity of the Almighty
One; if the word implies the idea of onenees; if chemi-
cal science is, in the energy of its efficiency and in the
light of its benevolence, diminishing the elements, and if
the whole scientific world pause, hesitate, desire, in re-
gard to some high discovery, in the laws of nature, which
shall dissipate all the_darkness which meets them at every
step, and pour upon them a flood of light, in which they
may see all truth in connection with material causalities;
why may we not fearlessly affirm that all things, forms,
and elements, inert or active, vegetable or animal, are but
formations of a single unity called matter? On princi-
ples of the soundest reason, we may-and so it is.
CHAPTER II.
THE ELECTRIC FLUID JS THIS UNITY.
The electric fluid is that subtle, invisible substance
which we call electricity, and which, when seen passing
from the cloud to the earth, the lightning. Dr. Franklin
has the honor of discovering that electricity, collected in
an artificial manner, is one and the same element. We
contend that this element constitutes the unity of matter,
it being a universal solvent.
That it is a universal solvent, is evident from the fact,
that no element or combination of elements, can be
brought under its influence, under adequate circumstanc-
es, and not become dissipated in its own essence and exces-
sive brightness. Professor, now Dr. Hare, placed anum-
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. H
ber of ounces of duly prepared bicade of mercury, and
of the fluat of lime, into his compound deflagrator, hav-
ing produced by the air pump, and afterwards deflagrated
hydrogen gas, as perfect a vacuum as possible, and brought
a powerful current of the electric fluid to pour upon it.
The result was, that in a few minutes it was dissipated in
purple light, too intense for the eye to endure a moment.
The remains of what was unconsumed was not larger than
a pea. There was nothing into which this portion of
matter could enter. It had to escape through glass,
through which no gaseous substance could pass. It did
pass in the appearance of light and beat. But light and
heat are modifications of the electric fluid. The inevita-
ble conclusion, therefore, ia, that had the conditions been
perfect; that is, had the electric current been perfectly
pure, free from all hydrogen, some of which must be car-
ried with it; had it in no way been retarded bJ the medi-
um of communication nor disturbed in itself; and had
there been a perfect vacuum, that the dissipation would
have been complete; all would have been changed to
light and heat; that is, the electric fluid. Now ten thou-
sand such experiments would give no fuller demonstration
of the truth. It was only necessary for Dr. Franklin to
subject the lightning itself, once to electric investigation, to
prove its identity; nor for Newton to demonstrate but
once, that matter was attracted according to its quantity
directly, and the square of the distance inversely, to au-
thorize him to carry it to the planetary system, and the
infinitude of systems throughout infinite space; nor was
it necessary for Dr. Hare to have done any thing·more,
than to have inferred at once the unity of matter, and
that matter the electric fluid ; because here was in a res-
olution of a part, confirmation of the identity ofthe whole.
The analytic' method is demonstrated in its resolution;
the synthetic, in the formation as prepared in the opera-
tions of nature herself. We then arrive at the conelu-
aion that the electric fluid, being a universal aolvent, consti·
tutes this unity in matter. If there were any other modifi-
cation to resolve the electric fluid itself, so that we might, ill
oioitized byGoogle
12 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
the light of fact and experiment, demonstrate it only an
element, a modification of matter and not the essence,
the unity of matter itself; then, indeed, our conclusion
"must be rejected: but as it is, it is inevitable and the con-
viction complete.
It may be urged, it is true, that this substance may be
God. Be it, or be it not so, the conclusion would follow; be-
cause God is one. We have nothing to do with the ques-
tion theologically considered. This belongs to sectari-
ans, polemics and divines. With us the question is simply,
the unity of matter in the electric fluid. We have de-
monstrated it a universal solvent, in that all other elements
and modifications, may be reduced to itself. It may be
urged that, thus far, we have taken as granted the existence
of the electric fluid, and that it is a universal solvent.
Its existence as an entity, is universally admitted. Its
existence as a material causality, has never been denied.
Its existence, therefore, is a self-evident truth, a well known
fact, .reality, which can neither admit of proof, assump-
tion, or denial ; becau8e that which is self-evident requires
no proof; that which is well known, established iu science,
cannot be assumed ; and because for the same reason ' it
cannot be deilied. 'l'here is, however, one process in
reasoning by which, although we cannot demonstrate its
existence, we can nevertheless throw its existence into an
entirely isolated position, and of course more command-
ing point of light. It is this. In chemical science, which
covers the whole ground, and with which our subject is
as yet alone connected, it is universally admitted, known
and confirmed, that there are, in inorganic matter, five pri-
mary elements, Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, Oxygen,
and Chlorine: and that in organic matter, as plants and
animals, there are only four of these primary elements,
Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen, and Oxygen. But the
electric fluid does exist independent of these primary ele-
ments, which are said alone to constitute inorganic and
organic matter: take away, then, these primary elements,
. one by one, and the electric fluid alone remains. It is
isolated, distinct, and stands (orth in its existence as the sun
in mid heaven. Its existence is independent of all elementa.
,,giti_e byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 18
Planet af\er planet, with or without their satellites, have
been identified and removed, and the sun alone remains;
and that, too, in a pure and cloudless sky. By the same
procE'Ss of reasoning we demonstrate it, and it alone, a
universal solvent.
Neither Carbon nor Hydrogen, nor Nitrogen nor Chlo-
rine can constitute it, because they are the elements, and
the alone primary elements, which constitute inorganic
and organic matter ; and each alone and independent can-
not be. Carbon, as in diamond, cannot dissolve any of
the other elements, nor can it di11solve itself. The same
may be said of each of the other elements, and we may
add, of all and each ofthe infinite variety ofmodifications,
of which the primary elements form the constituents.
But the electric fluid still remains; it exists independe11t
of all these elementary principles; it is the most active
powerful, and perfect solvent conceivable ;-by it the dia-
mond itself can be dissipated in its own brightness, and
were the conditions perfect; perfectly 'so-we have dem-
onstrated the unity of matter-itself this unity-it is,
therefore, a universal solvent. This is conclusive. To
impress a conviction of this fundamental truth more
fully on the mind, let us present it by a simple dia2ram to
the eye. -
A. B. C. Let the figures A and B -represent the two
entities, God and matter; A, God ; B, matter: and C the
electric fluid. As there can be but two entities, God and
matter, then C must be a part or the whole of either A or
B ; but it would be absurd to assume it as a part
of A, and still more so as the whole, because two
entities, and but two are admitted to exist, and still
more because C, the electric fluid, is admitted as material.
C must then be resolved into B, and the figure C be blot-
ted out. Now, since A and B alone remain, and Cis re-
&Oived into B, it remains, as a necessary consequence,
that C constitutes the whole or else a part of B. But it
cannot constitute a part, because we have demonstrat-
ed a unity in matter, and it can constitute the whole only
as a universal solvent ; that is, that by which all elements
2•
oioitized byGoogle
ANIIIIAL ELECTRICITY
and modifications of elementary principles. -may be con-
verted to itself. The electric ftuid, therefore, is a univer-
sal solvent, and, being such, constitutes the unity of rna~
ter, its essence and whole. It follows, also, as a necessary
consequence, that as a material causality, the electric ftuid
is the alone instrument of which, and by which the works
of deity are made, fashioned, beautified and adorned; and
by which they are destroyed ; and that it and it alone, ia
all he created. This is a plain, full, clear, but to many
an overwhelming and astounding conclusion : but it is
nevertheless true. This being the case, it remains that
we receive the truth in the fullness of a rational and
heart-felt conviction.
CHAPTER III.
NATURE OF THE ELECTRIC FLUID.
The electric ftuid being a unity in matter, or rather
the essence of matter itself, all else being only the forma-
tion of itself; however varied, multiplied, or combined; it
follows, of course, can only be described by its effects.
Its nature can never be defined. There is no specific
difference between it and any material thing, modification,
causality, or effect. But by its effects it can be. In a
free state pervading all things; it is that subtle, invisible
fluid which produces the spark when collected in an ar-
tificial manner, as it is made to pass through the air, or
left to pass freely into it, from an overcharged conductor.
The ftuid itself is never seen. The spafk, in either case,
is produced by the decomposition and combustion of the
air; and the report, the vacuum thus momentarily formed,
as instantly filled. It is the same with it as seen in its
effect in the lightning. The electric spark, collected as
the electric tluid held in solution by the water, has been
suffered to escape on its condensation, seeks a vacuum
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 15
'Wherever it may exist; as it passes, the air is consumed
under a more or less intense sple.ndor ; the vacuum it has
made is instantly closed with a tremendous crash, and in
the direction of its path, and as is the density of the m&-
dium, at different points, will be its more or less frequent
and heavy intonations and its distant roll. The varia-
tions of distance from the earth, inequalities of the sur-
face of the earth, and of the soil over which it passes,
will increase or diminish the variations in sound, both as
to heaviness and duration. If, as we have demonstrated,
it be the essence, the unity of matter, then it is the mat&-
rial causality of all causes and effects, antecedents and
consequents. Heat, light, caloric, are only effects or
modifications of itself. All forms, colors, motions. There
can be no other conclusion. To determine its laws in
its infinite variety of formations, as it creates or destroys,
or in the infinite variety of their motions in velocity or
change, is not necessary in order to arrive at this conclu-
sion. As all formations of matter are resolved into it,
all are formed by it, and since in the formation and res-
olution nothing else material can be employed, all
effects are the action of itself according to laws an4
principles yet to be determined. This is abundantly
evident. We need not fear to admit the conclusion
because of the variety of labor, or the amount of dif-
ficulties before us. Newton saw an apple fall to the
ground, and assumed as a cause, a nonentity, an effect; as
gravity or attraction ; we have seized on a material
causality, an entity, the unity and essence of all that is of
a material nature, seen or known. Nor need we fear to
do so, because of the change such an admission must
make in regard to the whole circle of science, should it,
as it must, be followed by the fundamental laws which
govern the universe. Whatever is in all its circumstances
true, will eternally continue to be so unchanged, and un-
changeable. If we assign a true causality, where others
have assigned an untrue or imaginary one; if we discover
the ultimate laws of universal nature, which go above and
beyond all that has yet been known, so as to solve all
oioitized byGoogle
16 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
mystery, phenomena, unaccountable facts, 88 connected
simply with material things, in their form, circumstance,
or change; then we shall do much to enlarge the bounds
of science ; sweep away its flummery, the jargon which
necessity and the schools have thrown around it, and
shall merit well of ourselves and of future generations.
This we propose to do in the work before us.
Having laid the foundation, we would here observe
that as to the essence of this fluid ; how deity operates with
it, or how and why it, considered in itself, thus and thus
acts, forming and destroying its own creations ; we have
nothing to do. As we leave deity here and everywhere
amid the beauty, splendor, majesty and glory of the uni-
verse, infinite, invisible and eternal; so do we the invis-
ible, subtle, universal substance he created, and through the
instrumentality of which he has spread that beauty, majesty
and glory, over and throughout the universe itself.
While speaking of the nature of electric fluid, it may
be well for us to observe that we have to discover and
demonstrate its Jaws of action as we find them exist;
substituting it, as the material causality where as yet only
an imaginary one W88 placed; and those laws as the laws
of electric motion, action and reaction, instead of im-
aginary effects from imaginary causes. We have the
whole world of science and of literature before us. The
works of the Natural Philosopher, Chemist, Mineralogist
and Geologist, are spread around us. We have these high
and fundamental sciences almost perfected at our hand,
and we have fortunately only to take the data already
given, facts, proofs, results, sustained by the highest au-
thority, to effect our object, which is, to advance one step
farther in the world of science.
We would also further observe that, in the discovery of
the laws of electric action and reaction, and in making
the substitution of which we speak, we have to proceed
according to the order of reason and science ; and that, 88
far 88 we advance, the whole ground must be occupie.d.
We must advance surely though slowly, till the work is
effected, and the edifice complete.
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 17
CHAPTFR IV.
HAGNETlSl\l AN ELECTRIC EFFECT.
That magnetism is an electric effect, fOllows as mat•
ter of course, and is a corollary of the conclusion that the
electric fluid is the alone material causality of all cau15es
and effects, antecedents and consequents. It is, however,
necessary to demonstrate the truth, in order that we may
not oply become rationally convinced, but that we may,
by an attention to the most important points in the sub-
ject under consideration, clear the way through the ob-
stacles before us, to that higher object proposed. This
is evidently the n~xt step in the order of reason. Espe-
cially will it appear so, when it is remembered, that in
language and idea, magnetism and electricity are in all
scientific standards confounded together ; and that, in ap-
pearance, here is a silent, invisible influence, ever follow·
ed by effects, which appear to be the result of a magnetic
influence, and still more so, since a long and continued
habit has led us almost instinctively to regard it as a
science. To meet all this, we have to present fact, proof,
demonstration. The proposition is, that magnetism, in
all its circumstances of action and reaction, results from
electric circulation in action and reaction, according to
laws already discovered, defined, and determined.
Let A be a horse-shoe magnet composed of soft iron,
and, when armed, of sufficient magnitude to sustain 2070
pounds, as a magnet. Let D and E be two series of gal-
vanic batteries, of sufficient power to produce the effect
under the ·circumstances required. Let a helex of fine
copper wire, covered with silk, be prepared, sufficient to
try the experiment. Form the circle and pour the gal-
vanic current into the soft iron, and it becomes a power-
ful magnet. Surround it now with a few hundred yards
. of the wire, and its energy is doubled; entirely cover it as
far aa the experiment requires, and it sustains the enor-
oioitized byGoogle
18 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
mous weight of 2070 pounds. It will also be found that
its energy increased exactly according to the square of
the distance the galvanic current passed through the wire.
[Hare.] Now it is universally admitted, that the galvan-
ic current and the electric fluid, are one and the same.
But here is a piece of soft iron converted instantly to a
magnet by the electric fluid. Invert the order, that is,
stop the communication, and in a short time the magnet
loses its power and returns almost to its former condition.
In this single experiment we have the most convincing
proof, that galvanism and electricity are not only essen-
tially the same, but that magnetism is an electric effect.
With 1:1uch an experiment, proof, demonstration, before
them, there must be, in the mind of the reflecting and in-
telligent, full and perfect conviction, and with such,
one experiment is of as much efficacy as a thousand.
But while magnetism is an electric effect, is it the effect
of electric circulation 1 In this experiment it is evident-
ly so. The fluid is collected, the circle of communi-
cation formed, and afterwards the distance increased,
and the several effects follow. Now it is known that in
a perfectly conducting medium, the velocity is directly as
the square of distance, and in a regularly resisting imper-
fect one, inversely as the square of distance. Here the
velocity is imparted and accelerated; the material causal-
ity, electricity, in the line of electric circulation ; the 2070
pounds are sustained ; and as there is no other causality
in all the circumstances of action ; we are permitted, by
the principles ofthe inductive philosophy, to infer, suppose,
adopt, and take this in all the conviction of truth and the
certainty of fact. The reason why it is thus in experi-
ment, fact, result; is because the iron, being an almost
entire vacuum and of course good conductor of the freely
circulating electric fluid, receives it with avidity, and in
celerity and amount to the velocity of the fluid, which is
as the square of distance ; and being isolated, and the
fluid unable to escape, the electricity seizes upon the
iron to become appended as a weight, and in millions or
CX)ncentric circles, as 110 many chains or rivets fasteiUI it to
,,giti_e byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 19
the magnet. The circulation is infinitely rapid; and since
every atom of the iron becomP.s the centre of actiQn, the
reault follows. It may here be asked, how that electricity,
evidently collected in the battery, eYolved and put in cir-
culation, was generated 1 The answer is plain and at
hand. It is by the electric decomposition of the metal
and the acid. As the metal or metals and the acid are.
·electric formations, these, as they become slowly or more
rapidly destroyed, are resolved back again into this unity,
this essence of matter ; and since it is in the line of con-
duction and in an isolated condition ; that is, contained
in a vessel which will not in its present amount and ve-
locity suffer it to escape ; it is, for the time being, a per-
manent fluid of active energy, or of the electric fluid.
This is further evident from the fact that the nature of
the acid and of the metals ; the size of the wire, that con-
ducts ; the magnitude of the battery, in the size and num·
ber of the plates, have all to be consider~d and defined by
experiment-and it is still further evident, since decom-
position is seen in the fluid in the escape of hydrogen gas,
and the metal in diminution of weight, bulk, and of course
of substance. That it is not generated from the atmos-
phere is evident, because the metal is submerged, and be-
tween the air and acid there is an appulsive force; that it
is not in part, because the effect follows in a glass vessel
from which all atmospheric air is excluded. This being
the case, for the terms Voltaic, Galvanic, Electro mag-
netic, Electro galvano magnetic, attraction, affinity, mag-
netism ; we substitute in science, however long the terms
may be used, for the sake of interest and convenience by
the wise, or from ignorance by the unlearned, electric
attraction or appulsion ; or circulation ; as the case may
be, and for magnetism, electricity itself-all that is seen
or known being produced and effected by it in the line
of cause and effect, antecedent and consequent.
We have proceeded now, we think, sufficiently far in the
line of demonstration, to assume the position, which we
shall, in another part of our work, prove; that the electric
oioitized byGoogle
f,
ANUIAt Bti:CTlUClrt,
ftqid, in a pure state, pervades all its formations, and all
space throughout the uniteree; that in each particular
formation, from the largest magnitude to the smallest; in
each element, and in forms resulting from their combina·
tion, and in each particle or atom of what is called mat-
ter, there is an into and ottt of in electric circulation, in·
dependent of the circulation which holds it in existence,
and that it is this, which, when increased by natural or ar-
tificial means, originates, hastens, and perfects similar
formations, elements or forms, or else wastes, dissipates
and destroys them ; that ig, in the synthetic method builds
them up, and in the analytic, reduces them to first princi-
ples, and finally to itself. When we have established
this, we shall hate removed the idea of the annihilation o(
matter, and have thrown before us, in the farther prosecu-
tion of our subject much light, while at the same time
we shall have removed many obstacles in the way to our
final result. We may also assume that this fluid, when
collected either by natural or artificial means, will, as soon
as the energy that collected ceases to act, and the re-
straints that confined are removed, dissipate itself; first,
by seeking a vacuum, and then the undisturbed equilib-
rium of its own essence, and on the other hand that the
more or less perfect vacuum from which it was taken, will,
as soon as all opposing influences and obstacles are re-
moved, become perfectly filled. That its formations are
more or less slowly or rapidly formed, and more or less
rapidly destroyed ; that there is an attractive force between
some and an appulsive force between others, while with
some there is neither, is what is open and known to every
one. Finally, we are warranted in the supposition that,
being a fluid, it acts and is acted upon by the things that
are; that if in any of these there is attraction there is a
want, a vacuum to be filled, an appulsion, an equal throw•
ing off, or.if no effect, that the electric circulation in each
is equal. In all things there is, so far as we have limited
our subject, a material causality, and a causality adequate
.to produce the effect.
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITr, 21
Ofthe Magnetic Needle. But to return to our subject.
If magnetism is an electric effect, then the needle must
be made by electric energy, and should be subject, if so,
to all the Jaws of electric circulation, and, so far as cir-
cumstances permit, action and reaction. We shall de-
monstrate that it is true, and exhibit the most important
reasons why it is. Let us suppose a steel needle per-
fectly balanced, and in all things prepared for the compass,
except that it is not endued with the necetsary energy,
either as positive in itself, or negative, as the case may
be. Now there are three ways of imparting this energy
which prepares it to act as a .compass. The first is,
having placed it directly north and south, the loadstone
is passed slowly from the centre towards the north or
towards the south, as we would give it north or souih .
polarity, This is continued till the thing is effected. The
second is to do the same with the purple rays fornied by
the spectrum. The third is to place it within a helex of
copper wire, in an isolated position, and to bring the elec-
tric current to bear upon the wire. In either of these ways
the metal is polarized. The last is evidently an electric
effect and made by electric energy. We have, therefore,
every reason to believe that it is the same in the first
and second instance. It is so. The loadstone has been
consolidated, under circumstances under which it has been
deprived of a due proportion of the freely circulating
electric fluid. It cannot obtain it from the atmosphPre.
But steel becomes a good conductor, and the velocity it
imparts, as a common sewing needle applied to the stone
enables it, in electric circulation, both to hold up the
needle and at the same time send it into the stone as a
vacuum, while the velocity imparted carries it through
and leaves it permanently a vacuum etill. The stone will
hold one, two, or more needles, according to its size. It
is then loaded. Hence the name. The violet colored
rays, passed through the spectrum, a bad conductor ofthe
electric fluid, are deprived of the freely circulating elec-
tric fluid in light, and the same effect is produced. Now,
whether the effect is merely excited electric action, or
2
oioitized byGoogle
22 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
whether with it an effect has been physically produced,
remains to be considered. We now place the needle
on its pivot, and, though before nicely balanced. the bal-
ance is destroyed. It has a dip. The balance is me-
chanically made, and the needle is complete. But why
the dip 1 We demonstrated attraction an electric effect.
We assumed that there waR an into and out of in the
electric circulation of any modification and forms of mat-
ter. The into is greater than the out of, in regard to the
earth, and hence our specific gravity; anrl as electric ducts,
upright position, and hence the dip of the needle. The
exterior !mrface has been electridated, a thin scale satu-
rated, filled with a larger amount of the fluid than is
naturally required, and the current into the earth resisted ·
on the principle of the lever power, produces the effect. ·
As it points to the north or south, as a north or south po-
larity is given, and since the two needles, one of a north
and the other of a south point in exactly opposite direc-
tions, and moreover since, as in thousands of experiments,
there are demonstrated to be two electric currents direct-
ly opposite; polarity in an electric effect. And lastly,
since by a heavy artificial shock by electric action, the
loadstone and needle may be destroyed, we have the
demonstration complete. The one is no longer a vacuum,
nor the other an electric duct. This being the case, the
neerlle should, as far as circumstances permit, be subject
to all the laws of electric circulation, in action and reac-
tion. It is. Let us state a number of facts confirmed by
experiment, and, as we advance, assign the reasons. A
piece of ~;~teet placed flotant in a tumbler of water, is at-
tracted or repelled as the opposite poles of a needle are
presented, because as an electric duct there is alternate de-
mand and supply. Two needles of equal power and
magnitude, secured by artificial means the one north and
the other a south polarity, become inefficient; separated, ap- .
pulsive; because in the first place neutralized by mechan-,
ical force ; and in the second, efficient by the law of projec-
tiles. A needle between two masses of iron is attracted
by the largest, because it presents the largest electric
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 23
vacuum. A small needle secured to a large one ofoppo-
site polarity, will impede but not destroy the greater, and
impede exactly in proportion to the energy of the smaller.
Now bodies, said to be positive or negative, when thus
circumstanced or placed in an electric current, are at-
tracted or repelled in the same manner. But these are
subject to the laws of electric circulation ; the needle
.. the~, is, as far as circumstances admit, subject to all the
laws of electric circulation, in action and reaction.
Of the Barometer. The Barometer it~ an electric bal-
ance. On the same mountain, with the same instrument,
at different times, in the same hnnd, we obtain a different
altitude; it falls just before a tornado, or typhon drops
down upon the ocean; it stands high all around a storm,
but low within it, and it is demonstrated that there is the
same quantity of oxygen in the air all over the earth ;
upon what other principle, then, than that of electric
action, can these and a thousand other facts and ex-
periments be solved ? The barometer varies not ac-
cording to heat or cold, but the electric condition of
the atmosphere above, or the earth beneath ; and as these
are formed or destroyed, the electric circulation into
and out of the earth vary ; and in the same proportion,
the barometer, as an electric balance, rises or falls.
If the wind rushes to any point, it is in consequence
of an electric vacuum, and the air is hurried onward
by the electric fluid in its course to fill it. If it is
followed by torrent after torrent of rain, it is because of
ncuum after vacuum formed in the air, by which con-
dension takes place, and, becoming specificially heavy, the
rain descends. If the barometer stands high all around
tbe storm, and low within it, it is because the electric
fluid all around, held in requisition by partial influx, leaves
undisturbl!d the electric circulation into the earth, while
within, from a partial vacuum, it is; and in proportion
to the perfection and extent of the vacuum ; and the
fury of the storm will be in the same proportion.
oioitized byGoogle
24 ANIMAL JtLECTRICJTr.
CHAPTER V.
ELIPTIC MOTION 18 AN ELECTRIC EFFECT.
We come now to one of the most important subjects
which, in a scientific point of view, can possibly be pre-
llented to the human mind. If we establish the position
that eliptic motion is, in all its circumstances, subject to
the Jaws of electric circulation in its action and reaction,
then indeed we not only arrive to a unity in matter, and
demonstrate in what that unity consists, but we arrive at
the primary laws, never before discovered, which govern
the universe. If this should be successfully effected, we
shall be enabled to solve, in all the lower departments of
science, ten thousand unaccountable and impenetrable
mysteries, and explain all the phenomena in nature, and in
chemical combination and resolution, which lie more or less
directly under this influence. Especially shall we be able
to substitute significant and definite terms for those which
have a vague and indefinite meaning; to ascertain in the
line of cause and effect, the material agency; to determine,
with absolute certainty, tbe laws by which causalities are
originated, sustained and governed, and effects produced ;
and, in short; while every thing which is known and true
in fact nnd science, under real or imaginary causalities,
and laws now believed to be true, will be more fully con·
firmed, we shall successfully and triumphantly solve eve-
ry difficulty, remove every obstacle which lies either above,
below, or beyond the present knowledge and credence of
mankind. Especially will it explain everything in regard
to the tides, the doctrine concerning which has ever been
crude, uncertain, unsatisfactory and absurd; lunar irreg-
ularities, &c. Since our system may fall into the hands
of some who are not acquainted with Natural Philosophy,
or who, if they are, need their memories refreshed ; and
since what is presented to the eye in the light of numbers
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
lnd demonstration, makes a deeper impression than that
addressed simply to the understanding, we would direct
'them to peruse attentively a brief outline of the solar sys-
tem, embracing most of the important facts now known in
regard to it. They may find this in any system of natural
philosophy. They will then see what is known-and we
would observe that, beyond our system, its sun, planets,
satellites and comets, the most profound philosopher knows
no more than the most ignorant peasant. He knows noth-
ing of the distance, size, motion, of one solitary fixed star.
He may see myriads through a telescope of powerful glass-
es, but he only sees them; of them, except that they are
stars, he knows nothing. He knows that those that are
visible to the naked eye, have been ranked into different
constellations, permanent clusters of standing stars, going
on to perfection, or an unchanging priesthood ; forty-eight
in number with imaginary names ; he learns these names
and the relative position of the constellations to which
they are applied ; be can point them out on the celf'stial
globe, and in the heavens, and 110 can the school-boy do
the same. But he can do nothing more. Not that we
would decry the name, calling, acquisition, capacity,
greatness of the philosopher, even at the present day.
He must be a true lover of wisdom, and one who brings
it to the world ; his acquisition in science immense; his
capacity great ; his understanding clear, profound, dis-
criminating; and his life one of untiring, ceaseless effort.
But being all this, he is only learning to do what others
have done. If he ml\kes any new discovery, it has been
already predicted as certain, arid he i11 dependent on the
advance of other sciences and of mechanical invention.
He has finally to bring his disciplined and powerful mind
down from the heavens, to the little phenomena of the
things passing around us. Who can get fame, or become
useful now, by circumnavigating the globe1 The age of
discovery past, who starts on a voyage of discovery 1 of
chivalry, who would become a knight ? But we would
.encourage the common people by showing to them the
·limits of acienee; to enter upon that which, in the labor o(
2•
oioitized byGoogle
.NIII41o BLBCT&ICITr.
ages is now made known, and which, u far u useful BJJi
instructive to them, lies upoo a level with their capacity
_and ability to acquire.
THB SOLAR SYSTEM,
Those acquainted with the solar system, are well aware
that the planets, which revolve around him as their cen-
tre, move in orbits more or less eliptical ; that the eo-
centricity of the earth's orbit, is more than three mil·
lions of miles; that the sun itself has its diurnal and
annual motion ; that the fixed stars are suns to their sev-
eral systems; and that eliptic motion extends to the in·
finity of suns and worlds. Some of the planets of our
aystem have satellites, others not. These revolve round
their centres as regularly as if there were no sun, with
the exception of an influence which effects equally their
primaries. The comets, of which more than five hun-
dred have been seen, move in orbits extremely eliptic,
making the sun their centre. It is, therefore, eliptic mo-
tion with which we have to do, the laws of which are not
to be inferred, but demonstrated and carried out in sci-
ence. The demonstration has been made ; we have to do
only with the principles by which it is effected, and the
application of those principles-the matt>rial causality in
action and reaction, by which commenced, perfected and
constantly sustained. The planets are at various distan-
ces from the sun, from 36 millions to 1800 millions of
miles, and their diurnal motion, from 24 hours to 9 h. 56
minutes : the annual motion of the most remote being the
slowest, and the diurnal most rapid. The comets vary io
eccentricity, velocity, annual and diurnal motion, form,
size and color. Having presented the outlines of the so.
Jar system as it is taught in connection with its most im-
portant facts we proceed to demonstrate that eliptic motion
is, in all its circumstances, subject to the laws of electric
circulatio~a in the action and reaction of electricity, u a
material causality on its own formation, and is therefore
an·electric effect.
We have demonstrated the unity of matter, and that
oioitized byGoogle
tbe electric fluid ~natiAuted this unity ; and that beinf
the ~senee, the substanee of aU things, it wu the alone
.thing created, and is thealone material causality by wllicla
deity operates-that all that is seen of substance of am..
terial nature .in form or effect. ie geoerateci or destroyed
by it, as a material causality, according to well knoWJl
· iUld determinate laws of action. We demonstrated its
15eparate and independent existence to the exclusion
of the five primary elements into which all forms .of mat-
ter are now demonstrably resolved. We exhibited it in
experiment as reducing pure carbon, tbe diamond, to itself.
.As what is called magnetism resembled in many instances
electricity, and might be supposed to result from a material
causality, either as an essence or modification of matter,
.we demonstrated it an electric effect in its origin, nature,
~md laws of action. The way is now clear. The object
stands out in bold relief. ·It is resolvetl into the single
proposition, Eliptic motion is an electric effect. This d~
monstrated, all the rest will follow as a necessary conse-
quence. It will only illustrate what will be already con-
firmed in regard to tbe primary laws which govern the
universe, and throw light upon the other scenes cOJJnected
with them as fRr as dependent-Chemistry, Mineralogy,
Geology, Botany, and especially those connected with the
constitution of man.
Motion is change of position, either as regards place,
distance and velocity, or a change in the velocity of one
part or particle of a body in reference to itself. The mo-
tion of a sleigh answers to the former ; that of a wheel to
the latter. A chariot in its advance, combinf's both-the
whole the former, the wheels the latter. Mption is an
effect, and an effect of an adequate cause, agency, or in-
strumentality. All motion is straight, circularor eliptical.
Straight motion is the passing ofa body in the nearest dia-
tance between two points. Circular motion is the passing
abocJy through .a figure everywhere equally distjlnt ftOlD
the centre. Eliptic·motion is the passing ofa body through
a figure, every part of which is at all times unequally clis-
~ant from a point called the focus. Theteis a fourth kind
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
of motion called the Cham, which in operative mechanics
combines every kind ; but with thil!, we have in this part
of our subject nothing to do. Direct and retrograde, ao-
celerated and retarded; regularly accelerated, and regu•
larly retarded; voluntary and involuntary, are terms that
explain themselves.
Circular motion must, in ol"oer to obtain with a freely
progressive body, be retained by two unchanging forces ;
that which drives it from, and that which confines
it to its centre; and that which eonfines must be 88
much stronger than the appellant as continually to change
the course from dnec·.t to circular, because on the princi-
ple of projectiles all mechanical, all directly imparted
motion is direct. If we suppose the appellant centrefugal
or projectile, to have been already imparted, then to re-
tain the circular motion it must move in vacuo, mt>et with
no resistance, and experience no directing force, because
a resisting medium retards, and a directing energy dimin-
ishes momentum. Each must act against the body.
Nothing can be more evident. Its moving in vacuo
would not Aupersede directing and of course retarding
energy ; for the reasons already assigned, all imparted mo-
tion is necessarily direct, and all directing energy reao-
tive and retardant. If our premises and conclusion are
correct ; did the planets move in orbits, which were perfect
circles, it would nevertheless require an accelerating i(
there were a material directing energy, some property in
matter to retain called attraction or the centrepetal force.
There would be the absolute necessity fi>r a continually im-
parted as well as directing energy, and since nothing would
be gained by assuming attraction in matter, we might 88
well say that both were of divine operation; unless, in-
deed, there be a material causality, whose action and re-
«etion shall result in these two unequal forces, at on~
increasing or retarding momemtum, and directing a body
iD. its course. Much more might this be affirmed in r..
pd to an elipse, in which a body, instead of swingillg-
IOUAd • oentre, is wheeled around a point more or les8
tV JOIQ01'ed from the centre, and in the eliptieal orbit o(
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRlCITr.
the earth more than three millions of miles, and in that
of some of the comets, billions. But we are not to
prove the impossibility of what is assumed, but the fact,
the certainty, the is of what really exists; that eliptic
motion is an electric effect. We require still, however, a
few more primary truths, apd philosophical facts, before
we can come fully prepared to demonstrate the position.
J.et us adduce them. Space is infinite, because whatev-
er limits occupies space-and we can conceive no end-
the erectric fluid, the essence of matter, occupies all space ;
otherwise there is a vacuum which nature is not only said
to abhor, but which, withoutthe special and continued in·
tervention of almighty power, cannot, on account of the
nature of the fluid, exist. In the destruction of the pri-
mary elements, which are its formations, and all the for-
mations of which these are constituents, it is evolved ill
the changes effected between them, and in them it is some-
times evolved, and sometimes consolidated. Thus in
changing a solid to a fluid, 141° of latent heat is lost, or
the reverse given out. It is well known that an undue
quantity of free electricity will, ifit can pass to a vacuum,
carry the body with it, thus overcoming gravity or attrac-
tion.
Let A be a glass stand ; B and C two metalic plates;
C filled with electricity, and B deprived of it. Put small
images of commo,n paper on C, and they will one after
another rise to B, and as soon as their free electricity is
deposited, they will fly off, or drop again to C, and con-
tinue to do so till an equilibrium is nearly res(ored. Here
has been appulsion and attraction; appulsion from C,
and attraction in .B ; and while attraction is overcome,
electricity is the material causality. Again, remove B;
and let A be charged with free electricity, and cork,
feathers are thrown off; or make it negative, that is, de-
prive it of its fluid, and various bodies are attracted.
It is well known that in all electric experiments, the
electric fluid, when free, does move in eliptic circles, and
in one direction, and that there is ever a counter current.
The influence of different modifications of matter upon
oioitized byGoogle
30 .ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
each other depends upon their nature; that is, the elee-
tric condition in the state in which we find them. . They
have all, except the five elements been decomposed,' and
their decomposition has been effected with so much regu-
larity in the line of cause and effect, as to lay the foun-
dation of the doctrine of atoms in almost mathema:tical
certainty. In the article of decomposed glass, we have
presented to the eye electric circulation in formation.
It is in meniscuses running into concentric circles of
surprising thinness, tint, and beauty. These meuiscuses
are some of them mammalated, and the apex of a variety
and tint in color, surpassing description, or anything seen
in art or nature. In some electric experiments which
have been made expressly to effect rotary motion, we have
seen the most triumphant success. Bodies, isolated and
adjusted, have by this agency been made to circulate
around each other.- In all melted metalic matter, fall-
ing from a distance, we see the globular or round form.
The drop of water, falling from the eaves, can be seen
to assume it, and to retain it in rapid circular mo-
tion.
We shall now present a chemical experiment, in which
eliptic circulation in eliptic motion is absolutely, palpably
and demonstrably effected. It is almost universally known
and can be easily performed, and thus proven true in ex-
periment, by any one with a galvanic apparatus. Take
three glasses, A, B, C, pour into B, the middle one, a sa-
line solution ; into A and B distilled water; into C a few
drops of the solution of litmus, and into B a few drops
of the juice of violets; now connect them by moistened
cotton, and pass the electric current. The alkali appears
in the negative glass, and the acid in the positive; and
neither contain any saline matter. In this experiment, the
electric fluid is the material causality; and as there has been
a complete transfer of these distinct modifications of mat-
ter, it is palpable; self-evident to the sight and taste. That
it could not be effected without eliptic circulation is evi-
dent; f;lecause on condition of no circulation, there could
be no transfer ; and if not eliptic, the appellant forces
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 31
would meet and counteract-each other. ·But there is not
only eliptic electric circulation, but different modifications
of matter have been unchanged and carried by the fluid.
A co~plete demonstration that eliptic motion is an elec-
tric effect. One more experiment. Put in the central
glass B, an alkaline solution, in A of Glauber salt, and in
C pure water. The acid will pass from A to C through
B, and be found there, not having combined in the least
with the alkaline solution, although naturally much dis-
posed to do so. Here is the electric fluid in circula-
tion, and, in that circulation, an actual transfer of matter
has been effected. The eliptic circulation is demonstra-
ble as before. Besides the positive transfer, the identical
materea found where it was not, we have demonstration of
the fact, in the deposit left on the edges of the glasses
in the wet cotton. The deposit of the materea, the dis-
tinct portions of certain modifications of matter, is proof
positive that they have been carried over as they were.
Let us now collect thes·e facts, proofs, experiments, de-
monstration. If by forming a pleonasm and a vacuum
by electricity, and so circumstance them, ns that with ma-
terial bodies gravity or attraction is destroyed; if by a
pleonasm alone, some are repelled and others attracted,
or a vacuum alone some are attracted ; if it is well known,
as in electric experiments on the needle that the electric
fluid does circulate, and that there is ever a counter cur-
rent; if substances composed of different· modifications
of matter, act and react on each othE'r according to the
condition in which we find them, or to which they have
been artificially, that is, chemically reduced; if in their
reduction the quantums in atoms have been reduced to
mathem~tical certainty ; if in glass an electric formation
from electric fusion, we have in that partially decomposed
thin lamina formed in concentric circles to an infinite ex-
tent; if with bodies prepared for rotary motion and duly
circumstanced, we have by the electric current perfectly
effected rotary and circular motion ; if with this element
we hav~_ made a complete and an alternate change; and,
if all this is palpable to the senses, then there is all that
oioitized byGoogle
.NIMAL ELECTRICITY,
is required to prove that eliptie motion is an electric ef·
feet. We thus arrive at full and complete ·conviction o{
the truth.
Before we advance further, it will be necessary to at-
tach definite ideas to the words positive, and negative as
applied to substances, and to the ends of the conductor
in the chain of electric circulation as positive and nega·
tive as applied to substances, arid to the ends of the con-
ductor in the chain of electric circulation as positive and
negative poles. It is evident that l!inee freely circulating
electric fluid fills all things, infinite space, that no modi-
fication of matter is in this re11pect either positive or neg-
ative. It is not less manifest since this is the case, that
if any modification in this respect becomes positive or
negative, it is in the one instance in consequence of a
pleonasm caused either by natural or artificial means, and
the other a vacuum. It is in the line of cause and effect,
demand and supply, antecedent and consequent. The
positive and negative poles of the platina wire in a gal-
vanic battery, result from an interruption in the electric
eirele in the materia of conduction. The air is a bad
conductor. The electric current, like all properties, loses·
its velocity in some measure ; it is seen in deflagrated air,
terminating in a point, at the end on the side of inter-
ruption, and in a round mass at that of continuation.
All not being received as it revolves in eliptie circulation,
it is thrown back again in a counter current. This is
fully confirmed in the change of the different modifir.a.
tions of matter in the experiment of the three glasses.
Again, bodies are said to be positive or negative, as
receiving or rejecting the electric fluid artificially or by
natural causalities, collected in more than an ordinary
degree. Thus steel is attracted and feathers repelled.
This results from the more or less active ·circulation in
which the formation was left in its completion, and still
continues to exist. This electric circulation, in all spe-
eiallmodifications of matter, no doubt constitutes what
bas"Leen called attraction of cohesion, and attraction of
gravitation. It is in the modification fine and rapid in
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 33
exact proportion to its powers of resistance ; and in the
same proportion must be the freely circulating electric
fluid collected and conducted, either artificially or natu..
rally, to overcome and destroy. That in the air destroys
the rose leaf; the lightning melts the watch; the electric
current, in the combined energy of the compound deflag-
erator, dissipates the diamond itself. This accounts al-
so for what is called positive or negative in the line of
conductity in the galvanic battery. Copper and zinc, the
one positive and the other negative, on being soldered to-
gether at theedges, become equally positive; separated they
return to their former condition. The velocity of the
freely circulating electric fluid passing through the one,
gave it sufficient celerity to overcome that of the other,
and having now by the excited energy of the latter, great-
er celerity, momentum, intensity, it is known in science,
what is found on experiment, to be exactly what is wanted
in such an electric apparatus, in order to produce the
greatest effect.
From what has been demonstrated, it is evident that
the common electrifying apparatus is constituted on the
same principle. The chain perfects the cirGle ; friction
between the positive and negative elicits the electric fl1.1id,
which is artificially collected and mechanically employed.
It is moreover evident, under all these various conditions
in which the terms negative and positive are used, there
is an infinite variety in degree, either in the ascending or
descending series. The primary condition is a perfect
equilibrium ; as this is disturbed on one side, is the ascend-
ing, and on the other the descending line by which they
are graduated. Therefore what were negative to the
positive; may become positive and negative in the lower
line of gradation to each other ; and what were positive
negative and positive to each other in the upper, and
so in infinite combination and degree. Hence an in-
finite variety in position and magnitude.
We must attend to one more fact in regard to electric
action, as we consider the differt-nt portions and particles,
or atoms of the freely escaping electric fluid, in the light of
3
oioitized byGoogle
34 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
projectiles. In itself being matter, it has to be thus regud•
ed. It must be thus regarded in its essence; and in a
relative point ofview, under all the various modifications in
which escaping, it can be ejected by the modification in
which it is; or attracted by another body as a vacuum, it
escapes by evulsion, to the more or less forcible and man-
ifest physical derangement and destruction of the body.
·This is in right lines from the appellant point, till the es-
cape from the modification when appelled, and when at-
tracted till it arrive from its point in position to that of its
destination. In its atoJils as it regards each other where
there is no formation, we see the simple action or re-
action in each in right lines ; that is, if it be supposed
that they be appelled in different directions. With single
atoms we should have angles in infinite variety, and all
the rectilinear figures we see in nature, while with a vast
number of atoms thus appelled, we should have all the solid
lines of figures formed in its modifications. When the elec-
tric fluid has escaped beyond the special modification as
appelled, it may then meet a series of attracting modifica-
tions or vacuums, and be inflected in any line of circular
motion ; or here and there one, in right lines, as it passes
from point to point, till it reaches the ultimate and most
energetic position in demand; or largest vacuum. It will
evidently be the same in regard to different modifications
of matter in bodies, as they are ejected and pass from point
to point, or regularly inflected till they are finally deposited
in the body as a part of its whole; or, if thrown out of it,
till they reach the point of their destination. What this
point is, depends on circumstances. If appellant or at-
tractive influences drive or draw it back to itself, the
point in itself is according to the line and angle of pr~
jection. If the line is perpendicular, that is, in the con-
tinuation of a right line from the centre, the point is that
from which it was ejected ; if not, according to the angle
of projection. But if this be not the case, then the point
is to another body, and from body to body till it finds one
with which itcoalesces and becomes a constituent part; or
out ofall influence from other different modificationsofmat-
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
ter, it finds a vacuum in the electric fluid, in which it
strikes, and then circulates around whatever centre be·
comes the electric appellant and attractive point in eliptic
circulation, that is, electric eliptic motion. It is evident,
then, that rectilinear motion, be it direct or retrograde, or
angular, is an electric effect; and that all modifications
of matter, and all bodies are while in it, under either
a directly appulsive or attractive energy; and as such
move under well known fixed and determinate laws.
These two kinds of motion, st•parate and combined, give
us all the figures and forms in lines and bodies, in dia-
grams and solids, which are found in nature, or accord-
ing to nature seen in art. They can give in formation
nothing but regularity in form and figure, and in these an
infinite variety when considered as a whole. This is
beautifully illustrated on a small scale by what is seen in
the Kaleidescope. Twenty-seven pieces of different mod-
ifications of matter, some broken and some regularly
formed, will, on mo\'ing the instrument, give us billions of
regularly formed figures, in which are combined the rec-
tilinear and circular lines, which can alone as effects hav~
resulted from the rectilinear and circular, or in other
words, the direct and eliptic movement of material caus-
alities. As bodies circulate in themselves, and receive
and throw out the electric fluid according to their special
modification ; and as light is the medium through which
all this i~ effected, which is constrained in the sphere to
present to the eye the combined electric effect ; we may
regard this as a beautiful illustration of what is affirmed,
and of what is seen in nature; not in images but substan-
tial formations. It is evident that primary motion, both
direct and eliptical, rests upon the same ground as the
creation of matter ; in its unity the electric fluid. The
first atom could no more move than create itself-and so
of the whole. God therefore energises, makes as well as
creates.·
We proceed now to a demonstration of the position
that planetary motion, as seen in the movement of satel-
lites around their primary planets; and planets around
oioitized byGoogle
36 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
their common centre ; and their common centre; the sun,
with its planets and their satellites constituting the solar
system around some greater, is an electric effect. It is
all resolved to this single proposition; that planetary mo-
tion is an electric effect
What is planetary motion 1 The word planetary is
literally. that which we perceive, or think to be wander-
ing. In the acceptation in which we use it, it is applied
to any body or system of celestial bodies which revolve
about a common centre, and whose relative position is
seen to change in regard to the fixed stars and each oth-
er. We limit it to our planetary system, the outlines of
which we have already given. We find that the Sun has
its diurnal and annual motion. We discover in the data
spread before us the combined effort of universal mind
in its highest efforts laboring for ages; the fact, that
each planet has its diurnal and annual motion; that each
revolves round the sun during its year; that each has its
polar stars, in a northern and southern constellation, in the
heavens; that each revolves in an eliptieal orbit; ·that each
is advancing with inconceivable velocity ; the earth more
than a million and a half miles a day; that the satellites
make the primaries their centre and polar star, and that, ac-
cording to their relative magnitude and distance, they effect
each other. All these things are in the light of observa-
tion, experiment and result, reduced to mathematical,
absolute certainty. Now, since they are all in rapid mo-
tion, they have received the rectilinear, the right, direct,
or projectile, and as they revolve in elipses the elip(ic ;
but rectilinear or direct motion and eliptic motion have
been proven to be electric effects. Planetary motion is
then an electric effect, unless indeed we detract so much
as was given at the commencement of it, and say we
know not how much was imparted by the power of deity
itself. But we take planetary motion as we find it, and
the position holds good ; because already in their posi-
tions, magnitude and velocity, their motion is not only
eliptic, but they require a continually projectile energy, to
drive, equal to the retarding energy which keeps them in
their orbits, unless, indeed, there be a material causality
oioitized byGoogle
•NIMAL ELECTRICITY. 37
whose aetion and reaction shall, according to known and
determinate laws, result in these two unequal forces; at
the same time increasing or retarding momentum, and di-
recting these bodies in their orbits. But we have demon-
strated the electric fluid to be this material causality.
There is no need, therefore, to suppose, as planetary mo-
tion now is, any special intervention because here is an ag-
ency, acting under well known and dtterminate laws, ad-
equate.to produce the effect.
To have a clear conception, however, of planetary mo-
tion, there are many things to be taken into considera-
tion. It is easy to assume an imaginary causality for
a real one; to discover some higher laws and in part
or in whole ascribe them to that causality; to form a
theory, and on it construct a system. The substituting
an imaginary causality for a real one, will not effect
either the nature, extent or efficiency of those laws, so
far as they obtain and are demonstrably true. In an age
of ignorance, when the wisest cannot disprove the im-
aginary cause, and substitute the true one; and when as
yet no higher laws for this very reason can as yet be dis-
covered, demonstrated and fixed; the fortunate man who
has made the discovery, formed his theory and system;
will have the whole world, the ignorant and the learned,
crowd around him to embrace it. It belongs to an age of
superior science to substitute the real causality ; and by
demonstrating'laws connected with it; supetsedir.g all that
is useless, crude, and disjointed in such a system. A
.new system is formed, more beautiful and excellent be-
cause more true. The perfection of all the sciences we
should suppose to be necessary to discover the primary
laws which govern the untverse. To bring these obser-
vations to bear upon the Newtonian Philosophy. Attrac-
tion, or a property in matter, was assumed for the electric
fluid, the material causality ; and the terms centrefugal
and centrepetal for the electric effects resulting necessari-
ly and determinately in its actings on its own formations.
Now these assumptions, these words and phrases without
meaning, have to give way. That attraction in matter,
a•
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
that property in matter, is the essence of matter itsel"
and the centrefugal (that which deity makes fly a hun~
dred times from the centre ;) and the centrepetal (that
which he makes fly an hundred times to seek the centre,}
are barbarous terms in the room of those permanent elec-
tric effects, by whose laws the universe is governed. The
Newtonian Philosophy never accounted for the tides, lu-
nar irregularities, and the thousand less phenomena
which now mee~ us in the pathwny of science. We
shall soon demonstrate that the Electric science and
Philosophy will. The Newtonian Philosophy, although
matter was .seen to act and react on itself by certain fixed
and determinate laws, never superseded the mediate and
continual acting of a God-the electric science does, and
makes now the whole one beautiful and perfect result,
from the laws of electric action and reaction which he
has established.
There is in planetary motion a consideration worthy of
strict attention-perhaps we should say a philosophical
fact. It is this. That although the paths of the satellites
round their primaries, and the primaries round their cen-
tre, the sun; are through the heavens not eliptic circles,
but waving circular lines, doubling on themselves, or ar-
rested at every angle of inclination; yet they do, in fact,
revolve round their centres in the perfect elipse as to ef-
fect; so that, with the irregularities of satellites excepted,
which are now well known as to causality, and absolutely
determinate with mathematical certainty in result; the
field before the philosopher is as fixed and permament in
its limits, as if our system were not progressive in its on-
ward wheel through the heavens. In one word, as if all
these orbs-were all secured by an orrery whose right lined
pieces were silver, and its circles gold. They are secur-
ed, but by an invisible materiality, infinitely stronger than
bars of silver in extensive position, or rings ofgold in re-
tentive. This is the electric fluid, in its action and reac-
tion, on and in its own formations.
We say.not only on but in. Throughout universal nature
there is not only an attractive energy to aggregate, but an
oioitized byGoogle
-ANIMAL ELECTIUCITY.
appulsive to scatter, IUld in each particular body or for-
mation of matter, to preserve itself and appel others.
This exists in an infinite variety in degree. In no case
can it be overcome without conflict, action, motion, a cause
adequate to produce the effect. Keeping in mind the rec-
tilinear as well as eliptic action and motion ofthe attractions
of pure electricity on each other, undisturbed bythe influ-
ence of its own formations ; the demonstrable truth as
seen in experiment, that, while under its influence, its dif-
ferent modifications, under certain circumlitances, were
thus acted on, directed, conducted, fixed; as in the ex-
change of distinct modifications from the extreme glasses
from each to each, through a modification in the centre, all
three remaining unchanged in any particular; and as in
the Kaleiderscope, from twenty-seven irregular different
pieces of so many different modifications of matter, left
entirely to chance in their relative position, yet in billions.
of figures producing each dissimilar and yet perfect in
its whole within lines direct and circular, recollecting the
fact that, in converting a metal from a solid to a fluid
state, 141° of free caloric is lost, and that while the
amount is as the intensity of heat, that it can never be
again melted till that is overeome, or set free; and we
shall ceMe to wonder, because we see the conflict, action,
motion and the effect produced, and a material causality
adequate, under existing circumstances, to produce the
effect.
Before we can advance any farther, we must come to
clear, distinct and determinate ideas concerning heat,
light, caloric. Heat has been regarded as an effect, aJKI
caloric as the cause. We feel the heat, or it is a feeJing ;
bot calorie, or smiting laeat i8 the cause-from " calor'
heat, and " ico" to smite. But this heat, this feeling,
this effect, is still spoken of as existing in 11 latent state,
in bodies almost infinitely cold, and in others almost in-
finitely hot, even while the caloric, or smiting heat, is
raging with all its fury. Henee the absurdity of such
terms and such philosophy. Light has been considered
u both a cause and effect, as material and immaterial, as
oioitized byGoogle
(0 A.NIIIIAL ELECTRICITY.
a modification of matter, and as an element or simple
.body. It has been called a wonderful, mysterious element.
It can exist in its splendor in the extreme cold of polar
regions; and is seen, in insufferable brightness, in the
electric fire, which dissipates the diamond itself. And
yet this light will be passed by some modifications of
matter, in connection with heat or caloric, and no calor-
ic absorbed, or hf'at arrested, while other modifications
will not pass, and while they reject or reflect but little, ab-
sorb both. Light is said to hue been consolidated, and
heat or caloric polarized. Each, separate or combined, in
some instances, appear to possess all the properties of
projectiles. We are, then, reduced to the absolute neces-
sity of making light and heat modifications of matter, act-
ing separately or combined, as the case may be, and acted
upon according to the nature ofthe modifications ofmatter
which they effect, or by which they are effected; and as
such, subject to fixed and determinate laws. If they were
effects simply, they could not be used. If effects simply,
they could not separately or combined be subjected to the
laws of projectiles. An effect could not be used up in
the consolidation of metals, and then in their liquefaction
again produced. We want a philosophy without absurdi-
ties and absolute contradictions. As formations of mat-
ter, they are generated by the electric fluid, and then may
be used by it, and act, and be acted upon, according to
the fixed and determinate laws by which they are govern-
ed. We wish this to be distinct)y understood, and reten-
tively remembered. As color is intimately connected with
light, and since light-as we shall soon demonstrate-is
the medium, and electricity the agency by which planets
· and satellites are seen ; and since the color of this light
is essentially different; we wish, nay, are under the abso-
lute necessity, before we progress any farther in the in-
vestigation of what is connected with planetary motion,
to determine what it is. Is color merely an electric effect,
a modification of matter, or a combination of both 1 This
is an important inquiry. At this time we shall pursue it
only so far as the subject connected with planetary motion
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY, 4i
requires. 1'he different colors, whatever we may C1111 them,
are produced by passing a small pencil of light through a
:spectrum, a triangular piece of glass. The~eolors always
appear in the order violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, or-
ange red ; the violet being that portion of light whiob
has passed through the thickest part of the glass. These
colors may all be seen in miniature, by placing an extreme-
ly thin piece of mica in the formation called ising-glass,
about the circumference of a pea, on the end of the fin-
ger, and holding it at such an angle between the eye and
the sun as partially to see it. The light will be in di-
verging rays, and in these every·color of the rainbow seen.
Wind blowing over melted lead presents correctly to the eye
most of the primary colors. Colors can be obtained from
vegetables, and the colors set, that is, by a chemical pro-
cess, made for a period permanent. From minerals, and
by the same process made more i:asting and permanent.
We get all the colors of the rainbow in passing before a
pendant drop of water upon which the sun is shining.
We may form the rainbow with different acids, or differ-
·-ent precious stones, placed one above another in the or-
der of prismatic colors. The condition of light and
darkness, is not to be considered, because it is in pure
sunlight that color is by the eye to be seen, known and
felt. The primary colors, painted on a circular card, and
put in rapid motioo, appear al1 white. An iron wheel of
many spokes, in extremely rapid motion, its axis parallel
with the horizon ; is seen only in its axis and rim, and an
object can be seen distinctly through its spokes. Certain
acids that were colorless, will, on mingling, produce red;·
add a third, and we have another prismatic wlor. When
.the object is coiored, it is said the particles have only the
power to reflect such and suc'h rays. lo the prism, could
the colors be extended, we sbould ha•e on the left baud
black, and onthe right, white, in approximation, as the per·
fection of all these circumstances wer~ perfect. Still the
question returns, what is color 1
All we now say of color is, that it is an electric effeot,
either as positive or negative, uoder which eitller a ditfer-
oioitized byGoogle
A.NIMAL ELECTRICITY.
ent effect is produced on the eye, or by which the condi·
tion of the body or modification of matter may be identi-
fied. In the prism, the light meets with a continually re-
sisting medium to the electric fluid; the violet colored rays,
therefore, have the least electricity, and are therefore used
in making the magnet an electric instrument. In the mi-
ca, or ising-glass, there is a divergency of rays seen partial-
ly, it being near, through the humors of the eye, which is
a resisting medium, answered for a prism. The wind in
passing over the melted lead, as it passed unequally, left
the oxygen of the air, to combine unequally; hence the ef-
fect upon the eye. The coloring matter from vegetables,
is evidently the effect of light and heat, under vegetable
circulation-but it is coloring matter! We need not ad-
vance farther. Under vegetable life, we shall give it a
· more profound investigation.• Considering color, then, to
be a positive or negative effect on the eye, on account of
the electric condition of the body, or modification of mat-
ter, (that is, so far as we have pursued the subject) we dis-
cover the reason for the different aspects, as to color and
brightness, under which the bodies constituting our plan-
etary system appear; an~ the changing appearance which
the stars, that disappear, assume. Mars is red ; Venus a
brilliant white; the moon a pale silvery white, The
&tars that disappear from their diamond brightness, become
red, then gradually a pale white, and finally fade away.
We have still another consideratitm, and it is in regard to
the condition of a body thrown from another, in what is
called volcanie eruption.
It is evident, on the least reflection, that if a part of a
body be ejected from itself by physical energy, it must be
less than its half, and that, circumstances being the same,
the velocity, momentum, distance, will be as its relative
weight as it regards the masses that compose it. It is the
same, and seen in solid bodies, whose electric cohesion is
• In animal and vegetable formations In tbose parts considered excrescences,
we see formations of matter more than a million of times beyond the powers or
UJU188lsted vision. 'l'bere ia no more roason to doubt that color is, in a positive
oe!!.."!l an electric formation, and In a negative &e!lse an etecme etrect1 tban ill
repru to what Is ~~~ ill eleclrielty 1\self,
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
overcome by rapidity in circular motion. If a small put
of a millstone breaks off in rapid gyration, it is thrown
in a direct line called a tangent, to a great distance, and
less and less according to] the greater magnitude or
the segment. In all evulsion or appulsion there is action
and reaction. If a ncuum were formed, and a part of
the body torn instantly off and hurried into it, the body
from which it was sqndered would have to resist equal to
the force imparted, and the matera around the vacuum to
the same extent. Compression is on the same princi-
ple. The forces compressing have to resist each other.
This principle is too well understood to require illustra-
tion. It is also evident that if a body be ejected, all things
being the same, that electric circulation or attraction, will
regularly overcome the projectile force, the momentum
become regularly diminished, the velocity cease, and then
the mass return back to itself. Ifexactly perpendicularly,
it would enter the same point from which ejected; ifoblique-
ly, as the angle of projection. If a body were torn away
in part by a ncuum, and in part by internal physical force,
it would be carried as much farther as the vacumic energy,
added to the projectile; still, everything the same, it must,
unless carried beyond the recaperative energy of the elec-
tric formation, finally return; but if carried beyond it,
can never return, unless, indeed, by some adequate causal-
ity it be thrown within the sphere of its influence. If a
body were thrown within a ncuum, and its electric cir-
culation in itself and in all its particles were not sufficient•
ly rapid to resist, it would be torn to atoms; if in an elec-
tric vacuum, resolved into the electric fluid itself. If
thrown into an electric ncuum of so small a capacity
and energy, as to resist both the impellant and expellenten-
ergies exerted upon it, and that ncuum was the extreme
point of its destruction, it would stand still in that place
as to direct motion, and if it had progressive motion with
the body, it would still progress in the line and with the
velocity, till overcome--as to the ncuum, its direction
was direct, a right motion the nearest distance between
two given points; but as to the line it made, it was circular.
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
The line itnow makes is direct, and in the nature ofthings.
as the motion of the primary is circular, and this direct; i(
thrown within the circle of its eliptic motion, it must fall
again within its influence ; if without, .not, unless, indeed,
some electric vacuum should be formed to accelerate its ve-
locity, and attract it within the sphere of its influence.
Thrown there, there must, in the attractive and expellant
power, be such a balance as to hold it in its place; if these
are equal in the resolution of ordinary forces they destroy
each other, and the body drops into the primary. The
same difficulty exists, if we suppose bodies formed from
small centres, and finally brought within the sphere of in-
fluence. We get no circular, no eliptic motion round
t>ach other. Let us now bring in electric circulatory elip-
tic motion. There is, after all extra influences are over-
come, mutual action, and reaction, a double force
which draws together and expels. The velocity is neither
increased nor diminished, in the onward course. In a
relative position, the mutual impartation and reception, no
matter where the centre of motion be, produces the bal-
ance. Had God created separately and put in motion,
still this is the agency required, and this is what is em-
ployed. Planetary motion is therefore an electric effect,
That it is so, in all its actings and reactings is involved as
the greater involves the less, and therefore true. The po-
sition therefore assumed is true.
The color and appearance of those stars which disap-
pear is not only an indication of their electric condition,
but their disappearance, of.a high state of electric fusion.
Every thing around us, though under more or less rapid
change in destruction and formation, yet indicates regu-
larity in the progress. Uncommonly sudden changes re-
quire an adequate cause. The earth, water, air, in their
original formation, indicate a slow, regular process. The
sudden decompo1ition of air, water, earth, calls for unnatu-
ral artificial violence. Now thirteen fixed stars have, during
the last three hundred years, disappeared from the heavens.
They have changed color, the same as highly ignited iron
or melted glass; they have finally vanished in an evanescent
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 45
whiteness. Now when we recollect that sight is an elec-
tric effect, and that a body under ignition or electric fu-
sion, ceases to exert that influence, which prorluces an
electric contact and feeling, if we may use the expression;
what other cause is there atlequate to produce the effect1
The eye, the atmosphere, our whole sy~tem is unchanged.
The change is in the star itself. We do not say '' burnt
out," but in an electric condition ; an electric liquefactive
state, in which its projectile capacity cannot reach us.
The m:1tter may still be there. Whether it is or not we
cannot demonstrate. We know not the energies which
almost unlimited space may exert on a star or sun. If a
combination of circumstances and causalities, may, with
this instrumen!ality in the hands of man, dissipate in ex-
cessive brightness the diamond itself, why may not the
Almighty, or a combination of circumstances and causal-
ities, set:ing the instrumentality in play, dissipat~ the !<Un?
But every star is a modification of matter ; and we have
demonstrated that all modifications of matter are electric
effects-in reaction, why not destroy what itself has form-
ed? It is more likely, however, that the star that has
disappeared. no doubt an inhabited world, has only lost
from self conflagration its electric capacity, and disap-
pears ; and that, after series of ages, its elements and mod-
ifications of matter, are reformed. This, on a large
scale, is no Jess reasonable, than on a small. The on-
ly reason is, we are not as accustomed to the occurrence.
Having established the fact that eliptic motion is an
electric effect, and having carried it to the revolution of
the heavenly bodies, and demonstrated it to be, as it re·
gards them, the legitimate effect of electric circulation as
the alone causality; we may now show, and are required
to do so, why the laws of nature, as were supposed to be
discovered by Newton, still hold good in planetary mo-
tion, so far as mathematical calculation and certainty are
concerned, and why they cannot hold good in regard to
all beyond and below their sphere of operation, while the
true Jaws of nature, formed in electric action, and rea('~
tion, resulting in electric motion, do 1 The great end of
4
oioitized byGoogle
46 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
inquiry is, to know from demonstration, to prove, and
to learn. The age of theory and authority is passed,
and we bow only to truth seen in experiment and
fact. The law of nature, that bodies are attracted a~
cording to their quantities of matter directly, and as the
square of the distance inversely, is eternally true, so wng
as these bodies retain the same relative electric capacity,
and no longer. As a general truth, it holds good ; limited
to our system, it will hold good so long as this relative con·
dition obtains. Say they are now attracted thus, and it is
true. And it is true, because the circulation of the elec-
tric fluid and of bodies under its influence, under such
circumstances, is as the quantity ofmatter directly and the
square of the distance inversely. This is demonstrable
as to velocity in the helix of copper wire, circumgyrating
the horse-shoe magnet. Its power is increased as the
square of the distancE\. It may, by a series ofexperiments,
be so proven as to the quantity ofmatter. We have here
only to invert the series. In the circulation here, we
have not similar bodies, and we have a regularly conduct-
ing medium. The one body is a pleonasm, and the other
a vacuum, and the medium of the wire equal and unin-
terrupted. It is, therefore, as' the square of distance, di-
rectly. It is true that electric energy is lost in a regular
escape of the electric fluid from the wire, and that, if
continued far enough, all would escape; but the experiment,
in limited circumstances, confirms the principle. Now
the medium, through which the planets circulate, is the
same, and the resisting energy, therefore, to make the prin-
ciple hold good, is found only in electric reaction. This
Newton never discovered. He supposed such a law to
exist, because there must be-we know it to exist, because
it is, and because it is demonstrably an unchanging law
in electric circulation.
The law discovered by Kepler, that the vector radius
of any planet describes equal areas in equal times, and
that the times are in proportion to those areas ; was, and
is still true, because true in mathematical calculation ; and,
\he laws of nature are ever the same. All that the Elec-
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 47
tric philosophy claims is the diseovery of the unity of
matter, the electric fluid; and that electric circula-
tion, in its action and reaction, resulting from materia{
causalities, constitutes the fundamental laws which gov-
ern the universe. ·
We here gain an important object-and this is now
achieved.
CHAPTER VI.
We affirmed that the tides had never been correctly
accounted for, on the principles of the Newtonian Philos-
ophy. There are three points of position which can nev-
er l.le brought within the laws of gravity and attraction,
but which, in electric science, are mathematically deter-
mined. These arP., why the spring tide, at the conjunction
of the sun and moon, should be less than the extreme
flood tide at their opposition; and why the spring tide
should happen some fifty hours after conjunction ; and
why it is that there is an opposite tide 1 Now the elec-
tric philosophy solves all these difficulties.
4
A m-E----8- B
0
3
2
c E
~m7-------S--- D
Let the line A, B; and, again C, D : represent a part
of the diameter of the earth's orbit-S the Sun ; E, the
Earth; and m the Moon; 1, the position at conjunction;
and, o, at opposition; 2 the moon's true place at spring
tide, and 3 at extreme flood ; 3, 4, the position of the
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
double tide in its eternal gyration and sequency round
the earth. On the .principles of the electric science
in the demand, and supply; as pleonasm and vacuum,
we have the power of attraction; and in the electric
circulation of each body in itself considered, according to
the condition in which it is left; the appulsive. Now in
the resolution of forces, the Newtonian Philosophy has
the attractive, but not the appulsive, and is left on the
same ground, supposition, as in eliptic motion. And it is
the same at every point of solution. Again, in the reso-
lution of forces, were tht•re no di11turbing causality, we
should have the spring tide at the exact time of conjuoc·
tion, and the flood tide at the exact time ofopposition ; but
we get them some fifty hours after. This disturbing
causality is the interception of a portion of the freely cir-
culating electric fluid in demand and supply, as passing
from the sun to the earth ; so that the moon, which
makes her demand almost entirely from the earth, in
part supplied by the sun, does not exert all her power as a
vacuum, till removed from between them. This will be
when arrived at 2, her position at spring tide. At op-
position ; what comes only from the earth, and that of the
sun arrested by it, she will receive the full supply after
it has escaped, together with the increased energy impart-
ed by the earth; and ·hence the extreme flood tide. The
water being a moveable fluid, and the freely imparted elec--
tric fluid making specifically light, we have to bring in the
consideration here, that the swell is an electric effect,
manifested to the eye simply, because of the moveahility
of water. But why the opposite tide 1 Here the New-
tonian Philosophy is absolutely aback. No system or
theory has as yet llJade any approximation in accounting
for it, except as it has hinted that it might be an electric
effect. To say it results from the centrefugal motion of
the earth, would give a high and an eternal tide at the
equator, which would be no tide at all. To speak of a
lunar and terral wave, a moon wave, and an earth wave,
is only to say what is, or, rather, to assign an imaginary
causality for what we can in no way account. All ils
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL J:LJ:CT&JCITT.
plain. The eternal eseape of freely circulating electric-
ity, on the side of the earth opposite to the moon,
. having nothing to receive it, thus manifests itself in the
influence exerted on the water. Hence the t>ternal gyra-
tion and ~~equency of the opposite tide round the earth.
This science solves the many phenomena of swellings,
currents of the ocean, and of the aspects under which it
appears, and also of the winds.
The ever continued, long, changing swell of the ocean,
seen whenever it is calm, results from electric vacu-
ums formed in the air, making an alternate and ever-
changing demand. An almost perfect vacuum above,
extending down in consequence of its contiguity to the
earth, gives, according to its extent, the hurricane, torna-
do, typhon. The free and sudden escape of an undue
quantity of the electric fluid from the earth, on the land
the whirlwind, and on the sea, the waterspout. When its
escape and collection is caused by a vacuum of powerful
and extensive demand, we have the combined Pnergy of
demand and supply, meeting near the surface of the deep.
The water is condensed above, and comes down in tor-
rents; that of the ocean is light, and appears to mount
into the heavens. The electric fluid that escapes cannot
penetrate the deep, for there is no vacuum for it to seek
there ; it cannot smite the vessel, for it becomes an elec-
tric pleonasm. It darts from centre to centre, so that half
a dozen balls of electricity (for it too globates for self-de-
fence) will cause, in rapid change, an almost continued
peal ofdeaft>ning thunder, and flashes ofblinding lightning,
accompanied with whirlwinds, which rend, and twist,
and sweep away sails, yards, masts. When these meet on
land near the suface of the earth, rails, trees, earth, rocks,
iron, are made light amid a torrent of rain and hail, and
as the latter descend, the former ascend toward heaven.
It is well for us to know, not only that these are natural
effects from natural causes, but why it is so. A galvanic
battery has been formed, and, as far as possible, in de-
mand and supply, modific1ttions in the rapidly flying clip-
tic current, are exchanged. The pleonasm is imparted,
4•
oioitized byGoogle
50 .ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
the vacuum filled, equilibrium restored, and the con-
flicting bodies put in motion, wind and water return to
their former condition.
Of tlte Gulf Stream. The Gulf strearo is evidently aD
electric effect. If it were to restore in one part of the
ocean the water that is taken from another, occasioned
only by the trade winds; it should then expend itself ou
the principle of hydrostatics. If to this we add the influ-
ence simply of heat, we should still expect this to be the
case, siuce the equilibrium of heat aud cold is the result
of general diffusion. But it hugs our continent-it re-
tains its warmth. It is evideutly water highly charged
with the free electricity of equatorial regions. It is wha.
has escaped from the condeusation of sixteen and a half
feet of falling water. The earth, ocean is filled, and it
thus escapes. Now when it is remembered that the
changing of water to air, or an invisible storm; is an elec-
tric efftlct-this being far more rapid in winter than in
summer; and that the return ofthat special modification
to water, is from condensation by vacuums, which causes
it to escape; we may well concluee that this is the case.
That we cannot collect this fluid from the water and
make it visihle, is no argument against the fact. Nei-
ther can we from the air. \Vho can collect and admeas-
ure the quantum of light or caloric in a given quantum
of air, as under more or less rapid circulation? Again,
quicksilver, in a fount in the summer, is of the same
temperature as water. Isolate each in equal quantities;
the quicksilver is extremely cold, when the thermometer
indicates its temperature, the same as that of the water.
Jce in thin cakes, isolated by a silken thread, in places on
the north side of a mountain, where it never thaws m
winter, may, in a few days, he comJ>Ietely frozen away:
that is, changed to air, or that modification of matter,
(not of heat and water) call(·d vapor. But we have pur·
sued this subject far enough. That the Gulf Stream, a
river in the ocean, running back to its ten thousand
fountains, and wasted before it gets there; or, rather, an
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRJCI'l'Y, 51
immense fountain, spreading itself over a land of ocean,
is an electric effect, ii.i demonstrably and conclusively
true.
Ofthe Lever Power a11d Mechanical Inventiot~. What is
called the principle of the lever power is well understood.
Place the fulcrum at any point i't1 a given line, and it is
easily determined what is the gain or loss of power.
Any one can graduate it, and make what is called a
steelyard. It is well known that loss of time ii.i gain in
power, and that gain in power is loss of time. Since the
wheel is the lever in a rotary action, and wheel acting on
wheel, is the same as lever on lever in unchanging action
or motion, it is, in any piece of machinery, easily estima·
ted what is the loss or gain; and making allowance for
friction, it is on the same principle. But this is only say-
ing that what is, is. We wish to know the material caus-
ality, why, at a certain distance, four pounds shall
counterpoise 800 at a certain distance from the fulcrum.
Or to make it more striking, why an infant can sustain
800, or if the hand were placed as a fulcrum, crush the
hand of a giant. To lay down the lever and make its
arms the diameter of two concentric circles, and to de-
monstrate that as the radii, or arcs, or chords ofthe one are
to the radii, arcs or chords of the other ; so is the bead to
the weight, or power to the affect; is only still telling that
what is, is. It was true before, and is no more so now.
We want the material causality. This is found in elec-
tric circulation. The centre of motion is at the fulcrum.
The electric current into the earth is permanently un-
changed. This penetrates and circulates in all bodies.
This into the four pounds and squam of distance, direct·'
ly balances the same into the eight hundred, and the
square of distance-directly invert the terms, and the con-
trary effects follow. Thus the earth balances the moon,
and the moon the earth ; the sun the planetary system,
and the planetary system the sun. The fulcrum is the
centre of focal distance, and the focal distance deter-
mines the lever power. Since this is the case, it is
,,giti_e byGoogle
ANIMAL llLECTRICITr.
evident that there is no sueh thing as man's originating
perpetual motion. Whatever he poises and adjusts to
motion, he has to put in motion. If he takes it frolll
material causalities adjusted, it is not what is supposed
-it is not what is sought-he has still to adjust-he
has originated nothing. The resistance of air, the fric-
tion of rough bodies, 'the resistance of gravity, resting
on the smoothest substance or centre, are constant•
ly diminishing the imparted momentum. The more
expanded and complicated, therefore, the sooner it is lost
or expended. The simpler the machine, therefore, the
longer it will run. A pendulum, in a perfect vacuum,
would feel only the resistance of gravity ; but this would
stop its motion. The originator, then, of perpetual mo-
tion, must be enabled to destroy gravity; that is, make
the electric circulation of the earth into and out of equal.
In short, he must originate a self-originating and impart·
ing mass of the electric fluid. He must create, or he
must make and preserve a self-preserving vacuum of the
electric fluid. Either the pleonasm or vacuum, thus
made and preserved, will do. But this is beyond his
power, infinitely, absolutely, and eternally. We have
been thus full because of the far-spread delusion under
which fortune, talent, family, reason and life have been
expended. The whole sum of mechanical invention con·
sists in devising a plan, be it more or less extended or
complex, by which, with a known power, a certain result
may be produced. The only motions that can be em-
ployed are the direct, circular, circular eliptic, and cham.
The direct from point to point, in the same line; circular
from a wheel, or the radius spoke of a wheel, exterior to
the wheel which revoles, giving the figure of the circle in
rotary motion ; the circular eliptic, the band of a wheel,
running on an elipse, or an elipse carrying a wheel ; the
cham, the groove adjusting the motion to any form and
figure. The materials to be used, the preparing them
for use, are, in the judgment, choice and skill of the in-
ventor. The whole operation, in all its parts, is to be
known; the plan to meet every difficulty by a part adjust-
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRWITY.
ed to meet it, conceived; and, securing every facility a
termination which lea\·es the operation complete, is what
is expected of a perfectly successful and able mechan-
ical genius. He will of course require a mind of strong
concentration, of large capacity, of acute discernment,
and of patient investigation. His mathematical talent
need be only the medium. The inclined plane gives the
direct motion and diminishes friction and weight, as its
length exceeds its elevation. Now all power is from elec-
tric circulation. The electric current moves the wihd ;
it rolls on and in condensation pours down the water ; it
fills the cylinder with an invisible modification, wh1ch,
when condensed or made to escape, drives the machinery
and in the ''electro magnetic," the positive and negative
electric, the fluid itself drives the almost invie;ible wheel.
When imparted by beast or man in mascular action, it is
this fluid sent from the brain along the nerves, which gives
a contracting or extending energy to the muscles and
limbs. All mechanical power, therefore, has to be ad-
justed in invention to this element as it moves itself; or as
in moving other modifications, they appear only to operate.
The reason any salutary result cannot be fo~Jnd in me-
chanical inv~ntion, proposing the electric current as the
causality, either positive; or positive and negative com-
bined; is found in the fact, that it is slowly and expensive-
ly obtained-is with difficulty confined, and is obtained
in the instrumentality of too weighty a materea, which, in
all locomotives, has to be self-conveyed. Boats have on
the Neva been propelled at the rate of four and a half
miles an hour ; but it is doubtful whether this process of
originating power will ever prove efficiently useful. Oth-
er modes of originating electric action, less expensive and
slow than the decomposition of metal and of fluids, must
supercede that of which we speak.
In mechanical in~ention, few machines of extensive and
complicated operation have ever been perfected by one
man. One conceives and makes rude and imperfect at-
tempts ; and another makes this improvement, and another
that; and after some thirty or forty years the thing is
oioitized byGoogle
.ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
perfected. The steam engine is an instance of the fact ;
the cotton ginney and cotton gin rnay, with a thousand oth-
ers, be adduced. The most important inventions are only
the application of known principles to known purposes
and modes of operation. The individual hu little left of
which he can can boast, and that little will most likely be
eclipsed by the more splendid achievements of others. If
his ilesign was in an enlarged benevolence of ft>eling; if
he was the first to design or successfully apply the princi-
ple to an important attainment in the line of human econ-
om y; if he has made great, continued, persevering and
expensive sacrificet; and consequently exhibited some of
the noblest traits of moral excellence, he cannot for ages
be forgotton. Fulton and Whitney thus stand pre-emi·
nent. Thus much for mechanical invention. When we
bear of this and that wonderful discovery, we do well to
withhold our belief, till we know that it is a fact ; and
are made acquainted with the modus operandi. We
hear no more of fixing the electric spark; the lightning
itself, so as to illuminate Paris!
CHAPTER VII.
VEGETABLE LIFE AND DEATH-ELECTRIC EFFECTS.
Having established thus far our system by demonstrat-
ing the unity of matter; that the electric fluid constitutes
this unity the essence of matter, all that deity created-
that it i1 the only material agenc·.y by which he operates-
that, in its action and reaction, it is the only material caus-
ality by which all forms, elements and modifications are
generated, made or destroyed ; that it is the cause of
eliptic motion, and its action and reaction in material agen-
cy constitute the primary laws which govern the universe;
having solved the phenomena of the tides on the electriG
circulation, and applied to the lever power in connection
oioitized byGoogle
.ANIM.t.L ZLECTJtiCITY.
with mechanical invention and operation, we come natu~
rally to vegetable life and death. This is an important
subject. We advance upon organic existence. We enter
the middle ground between inorganic existence and organ-
ic existence, endued with self-action and energy, thought,
will, intention, desire, sentiment, affection. The subject
before us is simply vegetable life and death ; that is, what
is it that, as a material causality, originates and sustains, to
a certain point, and then wastes and destroys? And here
we would observe that our whole ground of inquiry rests
not upon definition and limitation, which, however per-
fect and exact, leave the cause only the more isolated, not
the less profoundly unknown ; but on facts, principles,
operation, in which we see life and death originated, per-
fected, complete. We may, in vegetable organic life, make
our own selections from any of the six great classifica-
tions of plants, in genera or species; but here must be
the fact, principle, operation, result. Having presented
instances enough to enforce connection, we may then il-
.lustrate and confirm, as far as the subject requires. The
term organic may be objected to by some as applied to
vegetables. By an organ, we mean that particular part
of a whole, which has its special function and by whose
especial operation the whole is in a measure sustained ;
and by organic existence, the standing out ofthat, which,
while thus standing out, feels their energy of action. That
life doth exist in vegetables, and that in this sense they
have organs, is not denied, and cannot be conteeted.
We shall commence with life in its perfection in vege-
. tables, which is at the moment of perpetuated existence.
That point in existence in which the plant propagates the
most perfectly its kind, may be said to be its highest in
the perfection of life. If it should continue for years
and centuries, still that point of time, in which it could
the most perfectly accomplished this, would be at the per-
fection of its existence.
Since we have demonstrated that the electric fluid is a
unity, the essence of matter, the alone material created,
the alone material causality of all causes and effects, of
oioitized byGoogle
56 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
the formation and destruction of all modifications of mat-
ter j it follows, as a necessary consequence, that vegetable
life and death depend upon the same cause, and that the
bodies in which they are seen, as positive or negative effects,
in all their forms, size, magnitude, are electric formations;
that every organ, however, multiplit>d its formations,
and every vessel, fluid, filament, atom, in each organ, was
equally so, and finally that, though in more complex and
multiplied display, it is all on the same ground1 agency,
operation, result, as the modifications and movements of
matter, destitute of vegetable life. But we wish to carry
out not only conviction, but instruction, into this world of
higher existence. We say lligher, and so it is. We must
forget the infinity of the universe ; our sun, and elements,
and satellites ; the thousands of stars that meet our unas-
sisted vision ; the millions which in telescopic' energy
burst upon the sight; and the million of millions which
in the celestial concave, thus admeasured and adjusted at
every point, however inconsiderabfy small, lie all around,
infinitely, still, infinitely beyond. These on account of
magnitude, number, appearance, velocity; deeply effect us.
Let us not look at them, and for the present lt>t us not
think of them. Or, if we must, lt>t us concentrate mind
in the very act. Let us emerge from the infinity of space
to that circumscribed by our system in it!! ceaseless course ;
from the infinity of number to the eighteen worlds which
compose it ; from these eighteen to our earth. We are
here. It is covered with vegetable life in eudless variety
of form, beauty, and excellence ; above in the midst of this
and sustained by it an infinite variety of beings in animal
existence, from the lowest in degree up to man, who stands
erect in physical beauty, moral excellence, and intellect·
ual energy. Which is the more excellent, the solid earth,
or that which covers it ; the throne, or he who sittest
thereon 1 Now if we will look abroad through the uni·
verse of suns and worlds, let us recollect that they are
each the abode of vegetable life and animal existence in
each, in variety, number, 1md excellence, according to their
own magnitude and relative excellence, and we shall be
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY• 57
. prepared to enter, with due equanimity of feeling, on the
work before us.
In the selection of our subject for intellectual dissec-
tion, we take, in the first place, the Lily. It is a plant well
known to every one. It has a flower of fivP. anthers and
one stigma. The anthers are the almost balanced bodies
which hang on the filament,., The totigma is the central
stem and its termination. On the anthers are a vast num-
ber of small round bodies, which, as dust, cluster together.
Now, in order that seed be produced, it is necessary that
110me of this pollen, which is on the male part of the flow-
er, should fall on the stigma, which is the femalE\. This
is \mown from experiment; and on other plants, ten thou-
sand experiments: for take any non-conducting medium,
and effectually cover the stigma, and there is no seed pro-
duced. Cut off the stigma, or leave the stigma and pluck
off the anthers before the production ofthe pollen, and the
jlame effect follows. Take a hill ofcorn, and co\·er any ear
llS it commences silking, just at the time the pollen on the
stalk is beginning to appear, and there is no corn. Plant
in the centre of a field of yellow corn, one hill of red, and
all around and in the direction the wind is most preva-
lent, at the time the silking and pollening is perfect, will
be scattered the red. In fact no well informed person
doubts these facts.
Let us now take the Lily at the period specified, and by
mechanical means hasten, and see the operation. A small
portion of the pollen is collected on the point of the new
JDade pen, and placed carefully, without touching, on the
stigma. It is in a few minutes completely absorbed. If
we do the same with the Holyhock, or Ocrea, or Cotton
plant, we see a large quantity in·a single minute absorbed.
That it is actually so, we have only to take of the pollen
oftwo plants, the ocrea and cotton, flowering at the same
time, and placing the pollen of the cotton on the stigma
ofthe ocrea, we shall not only see it absorbed, but instead
of finding an edible pod and seed, the pod and seep of a
new speciP.s of cotton. . . ·
· Now, in this absorption, we sj!e an (?lectric effect. ·There
5
,,giti_e byGoogle
59 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
is a vacuum and a pleonasm; there is a materia formed
and a place for the deposit; and however long before itar·
rives there, and how multipliE-d soever its windings, and va-
rious the forms and modifications it assumes, there must
be a material causality to start and to carry it to its desti-
nation. We find the embryo of the seed, if we may use
the exprE-ssion, and finally the seed itself, in the same
condition of the diamond, when no diamond was, and as
the diamond where the diamond is. The extremes are
formed ; they meet, and each is ultimately produced. There
must exist the extremes, the medium of communication,
and the place of ultimate deposit. Now when it is re-
collected that all vegetables are comvosed of the four ele-
mentary principles, Nitrogen, Oxygen, Hydrogen, and
Carbon, and that these are, in vegetable life, so combined
as to produce every vegetable, and every vegetable com-
bination and formation, as found in the works of the
botanist, or of the chemist ; why should we hesitate to
say that vegetable life is an electric effect by which
a vacuum is formed; that this vacuum, filled up with
modifications of its own formation, becomes au active,
circulating centre of matter, which is now reduced
gradually to form; that the into and out of in this for-
mation, while they leave a deposit, dispose the materia
in more or less regular lines, and smaller and more
rapid circulation, and greater hardness at the points in
which resistance is met at the out side 1 It is so. If
there are many seeds produced in one receptacle, then
there are many such centres; if there is beyond what pro-
tects a rind, which afterwards becomes food, that rind was
produced in the same manner, the matter thrown beyond
in myriads of electric lines, direct and eliptic, and centre
within centre. Light and heat, all,the conditions of Yeg-
etable life, are required to bring us to this point; so are all
the conditions for the formation of a single pebble, and as
much so as the conditions for the formation of a diamond.
Where many seeds are produced, the number, more than
the size, will depend upon the circumstances of soil, air,
water and cultivation.
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
But this we shall the more successfully consider under
the continuation of vegetable existence in the germination
or quickening of the seed itself. We have seen the male
and female parts of the plants unite, and in the plant itself
the result of that union in the seed produced. It is an
electric result. From all the predisposing causes and an.
tecedents in the circle.of its vegetable existence, and from
all the sustaining and accellerating causes from its individ-
ual commencement in the parent plant, till this moment, it
is a vegetable, material, electric formation. It now re·
quires another medium; not to create, originate, form vE'g·
etable life, but to place the vegetable life in a condition in
which the vegetable may be evolved. This is an impor·
tant idea, and we therefore repeat it ; the seed now requires
another medium ; not to create, originate, form vegetable
life, but to place vegetable life in a condition under which
the vegetable may be evolved. This is the ground com-
posed of various earthy combinations, and the remains of
decayed vegetable matter. That more or Jess of each is
required ; more or less water, light, heat, cultivation; more
or less time, are only conditions or circumstances. Neither
of these constitute life. Neither nor all of these are veg·
etable life. The vegetable life of that future vegetable is
there, " Whose Jifp, is in the seed thereof." We may re-
tain the seed during months, and of some plants for years,
and yet all this time the vegetable life is there. It may
lay in the ground for months, and of some plants for yean,
and stil! the life departeth not. Well, we wish this seed,
this vegetable receptacle of vegetable life, to evolve the
vegetable life; to be seen and exist in the plant itself.
We put it in the ground, and the result is seen. The
plant appears to flourish, propagate its kind, and de-
cay. But we wish to see this process. Well, without
pain to the plant, and little trouble to ourselves, we
may adopt these methods-we may dissect and examine,
one after another, a hundred seeds, planted at the same
time, and under the same circumstances, till we are satis-
fied-we may put on cotton ftotant, in a half tumbler
of water, seeds that will thus vegetate; and observe, from
oioitized byGoogle
60 ANIIIIAL ELECTRICITY.
time to time the process-we may subject thE' germ, the
vegetable life, of some seeds, so laid bare, as to expose the
first action ofthe first particles visible only under the aid
of powerful glasses. In the first instance, we shall see the
seed moistening, softening, enlarging; the roots, leaves,
stem, more and more evolve and protrude';themselves, till
the plant is perfectly formed, and stands forth in vegetable
existence. In the last instance there commences a rapid
circulation exceedingly fine and limited, and we see
produced the first formation of roots, leaves, stems;
This is enough. We have, in a modification of matter,
the seed in which is life, the life of the plant; electric
action to evolve the plant. We leave, therefore, the
subject of vegetable life, isolated, distinct; and it has an
electric effect clearly seen. Vegetable death would be the
destruction of that capacity for electric action which the
seed possessed, whether it were by a destruction of the
seed or by withholding from it the conditions which were
required in order to fill that capacity and evolve the plant.
By experiments made on the vegetable life of different
plants, in the seed:! gathered ripe, and perfectly dry, and
in bags suspended against a dry wall, it has been found
that, in the seed of the Beet, Celery, Cucumber, 1\langel-
Wurtzel, Melon, Pumpkin, and Squa~;h, it could be pre-
served ten years; in Hysop, six; in Fennel, five; in Balm,
Brocoli, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Horse radish, Mint, Mus-
tard. Ruta Baga, Spinach and Turnip, four; in Corn, Co-
riander, Garlic, Lettuce, Potato, Rosemary and Tansy,
three; in the Bean, Camomile, Cress, Hop, Lavender,
Leek, Onion, Pennyroyal, Radish, Savory and Thyme,
two; and in Asparagus, Carrot, Pea and Rhubarb, but
one. Here different seeds, gathered and preserved under
the same and most favorable circumstances, have, in the
same element, the air, different capacities; or rather ca-
pacities in themselves, of preserving vegetable life. It
consists no doubt in the electric condition of the shell, by
which they are surrounded. This fact is confirmative o(
our position.
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. _61
Again, in Botany, we have six grand classifications of
plants; the Anagama, those which are supposed to have
no sexual organs or propagation; Vascular Cryptogama,
those which have the organs and connection in the
vessels ; and concealed Celular Cryptogama ; those
which have the organs and connection under the rind ;
Gymnospermous Phanerogama, both the organs and
seed open; Monocotyledenous Phanerogama, single pod ;
open, sexuality ; and Dicotyledenous Phanerognma,
double pod, &c. In Fossil Botany, there are four
grand periods; one from the granite to the coal ; one
from the coal to the new red saud-stone; one from the new
red sand-stone to the flint and chalk ; and one from the
flint and chalk to the surface of the earth, identified by
the fact that no two species of any one of the~;:e six great
classfication~ of plants, are found in the one which ex-
ist in the other ; and since the number of species in
each varies to a great extent, it is demonstrably true, that
the variation, and, we may add size, can be assign-
ed to no other cause, than, that, the variatiou in number
and size depended on the t'lectric c.ondition of the seed,
and ofthe air, earth, soil, light, and heat, at the same pe-
riod. As some species are destroyed, others generated,
we must assign the generation from time to time to the
same causality. A result confirmative of our position al-
ready demonstrated.
Once more, it is now universally admitted, that the dif-
rent parts of plants perform different offices; that while
the primary elements enter more or less into their forma-
tion, they evolve more or less of any one of the al-
most infinite variety of forms, modifications, substances,
qualities; that it is not the vegetable mould called humns
which enters iuto them; but that this becomes only the
medium, the condition, in which they can alone flourish.
Another strong confirmation of the truth demonstrated,
that vegetable life and death is an electric effect-life pos-
itive, death negative.
Again, once more ; by mingling the pollen of dif-
ferent species of flowers, we may get an almost infinite
a•
,,giti_e byGoogle
62 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
nriety in tint and color. The common potatoe prese~ts
ll new species, if propagated from the seed of the ball.:
The variety of species in this excellent edible root, may
thus be increased to a vast extent. First, pluck the seed
from the ball, which is the primary centre of vegetable ex•
istence-as it now obtains-the next year plant the roots of
the produced vegetable; on the time of flowering, mix the
pollen of any species of rigorous stock, plant the seed of
this, and so on ; and year after year, you advance in an as-
cending series, a more rigorous and abu~dant growth,
with a vast variety in species and excellence. Full con-
firmation this, of our general proposition.
We shall now present a few facts, and dismiss the sub-
ject. Those kinds of wood which are durable, solid, and
susceptible of a high polish, and of vast variety in tint,
are, as are the diamond and other precious stones;
continue long in coming to perfection; those which are the
reverse, spring up in a few generations, and as speedily
perish. Those trees which occupy a middle ground, as-
sume a medium character in regard to their circumstan-
ces and qualities. In the whole vegetable world, we mark
all that we should expect to find in circles, lines, elipses,
in fixed permanent centres, thus formed, and acted up-
on. They are, according to their primary formation, and
the circumstances under which they flourish. The pri-
mary being the same, they vary as isolated, or together,
according to soil, climate, position. In a forced state, in
which the tree has to spring up in the midst of a forest;
and in the extreme of this, in which the forest tree, in an
isolated position, flourishes in the open field ; it is striking-
ly manifest. In the former case, of the same genera and
species, we find the very eliptic circulation, in lines al•
most perfectly straight ; and in the transverse, the circle
giving almost perfect rotuHdity in form, and it is easily
cut and split; while in the latter, we have irregularity in
every line and angle of vegetable formation, and find
much difficulty in converting it to the same use. When
different species of different genera are found in a forest
growing together, one invariably overcomes the other, as is
,,giti_e byGoogle
ANIMAL BL&CT&JCITY. 63,
tndent from appearance on dissection. The one is stint·
ed ; thrown out of its upright position ; and the heart of
each, the pitb, the primary, eliptic centre of the vegeta·
~le, is thrown into the focus of another elipse which
would, bad it not been for this, have been found a circle.
In all wounds, decayed points, &c., we find the elec--
:tric circulation interrupted in the materia which is de-
posited in self-reparation. There are evidf'ntly whirl·
pools formed, and every line is more or less imperfect,
varied, abrupt, destroyed. Do all the parisite planets
wheel round with the sun in the same cardinal direction T
and do all turn in the same direction on their axis?
·Does water, left free, in entering a natural or artificial
vortex, always circulate in the same direction 7 And are
·these electric effects in electric circulation T So do all
·vines which are sustained by close gyration, wind round
in the same direction, and those which in winding twist
round themselves in the same manner; and so also in the
regularly formed vortex, we have the sall\e ligneous cir-
culation under electric action. Is it a universal princi-
ple that the same materia in consolidating, becomes more
compact, so that unless matter is added, there must ulti-
mately be formed a vacuum somewhere; and is it a fact,
that in a regularly formed body, this is near the centre, as
in the lithites on highly electric volcanic ground; and
the silicious stone turned in the interior to rock chrys-
tals, all pointing to the centre 7 This same principle
holds good, throughout the vegetable kingdom. In some,
we find the centre, in a few weeks, entirely gone; others
in a few months ; some in years ; and some in centuries.
The double circulation, and the double polarity exist-
the into and out of in electric circulation, act and react,
and there is ultimately seen a point from which the one
hils taken and the other deposited. Hence the stalk and
hollow, the stalk and pith, the heart and sap, the trunk
and hollow. External circumstances may prevent, but let
the vegetable, the plant, the tree, in which is the life de-
rived from the seed, flourish to maturity and old age, and
ais ever the case.
oioitized byGoogle
64 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
It is this reason, or rather fact, which is seen, in
ten thousand instances, this series of facts establishing a
principle; facts to which they could assign no reason,
and a principle which they could not discover ; or if they
did, in some distant approximation, dare not avow; that
has l~d some philosophers to hint, and some enthusiasts
and monomaniacs to affirm, and spend life in convincing
others, that the earth and planets are hollow spheres.
The rings of Saturn appear· equatorial belts of former
consolidations, the surface of the earth in continents, and
islands, submerged and thrown up, after lying for ages in
the sea ; immense fissures filled with secondary forma·
tions, or remaining in immense caverns; the masses of
secondary formation extending and thrown into moun·
tains, as the anthracite coal at the polar regions; have
given hints to the one, and certainty to the other. So-
ber science, in her advance, now establishes as a truth,
that which on the one hand was supposed might be, and
on the other assumed to be so. These two laws of elip-
tic circulation, in action and reaction, in which the
electric fluid is forming, transposing, sustaining, de-
stroying its own modifications; is adequate to produce,
and does produce the effect. It is seen in the sex-
ual union of the plant ; in the centre or focus of the
seed; and ultimately, in the plant evolved from vegetable
life. Thin centres are more or less perfect electric n·
euums ; and in degree, as the nature of the electric for·
mation demands. The propagation or rather continuance
of vegetable life, from parts of the same plant, is too
plain to require comment. The bud becomes the elec-
tric centre, and is .in all such in sufficient perfection,
strength, energy, as to give play to the laws of electric
action. Inserting a twig; planting a root in the ground;
inserting a bud beneath the bark; or a sprout into an am-
putated limb; are the four.modes of mechanical operation.
Thus the twig of the willow, poplar, rose-bush, thus in·
serted, puts forth roots and flourishes ; the potatoe, planted
again and again, from year to ·year ; the apple, peach,
pear, plumb, quince, elm, are grafted with this or that,
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
and do the same ; and a thousand of different kinds, and
genera, may be inoaulated by inserting a small branch
with a bud at the extremity of another genera and spe-
cies. The Romans grafted the pear to the elm. We
only lengthen the line of electric circulation in the me-
dium. The engrafted is the line, the electric centre.
The stalk that sustains, becomes only the medium of
communication. This is evident from the looks, taste,
smell and qualities of the wood ofeach; they remain un-
changed, and are essentially the same.
But we must dismiss this interesting subject. We
wish only to establish and confirm the laws of electric
action, as they exist in vegetable life and death. It is
the part, duty, privilege, and life ofthe chemist and bota-
nist, the economist and physician, to carry them out in
all their diversified bearings and results on the principles
of science, and tht> best interests of man. As vegetable
death is only in the particular, and in every particular
plant, the destruction of the electric centre, constituting
life by filling it up, so as to suspend the electric circula-
tion ;· and since all that afterwards follows in de!~om­
position, and reduction to humus, is beyond and after its
death; it is evident that anything further, would be ir-
relevant to the subject. The fullness of vegetable flores-
cency, and the rapidity or slowness of vegetable decay,
may depend on a thousand circumstances and causes. The
undisturbed operation of those laws on which the existence
of the plant depends, will give the perfection of florescen-
cy, and the disturbed operation hasten decay. Their
commencement was life to the seed, their destruction is
death to the seed; their commencment was life to the
plant, their destruction its death. Iu one word-the
electric fluid constitutes the essence of vegetable matter,
all its forms, qualities, modifications, electric results-- .
even from life to death. It is seen, demonstrated, known;
and while it lies at the foundation of all science, connect•
ed in botany and chemistry with the vegetable world,
it should be so received, believed, and taught.
igitize1byGoogle
66 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
CHAPTER VIII.
ANIMAL LIFE AND DEATH-ELECTRIC EFFECTS.
We advance naturally from the organic vegetable
world to the animal. There is a close and intimate con-
nection. They both rest on the same earth. They are
composed of the same elementary principles; share in
common some of the same modifications of matter ; and,
as far as the eye sees, or the skill of the chemist discov-
ers, are in the individuals that compose each, surrender-
ing up their subjects to return more or less slowly to the
same elements; till all that remains is found in humus,
the medium of vegetable florescency, as in part, the for-
mation left from vegetable decay.
In order to a successful examination of this subject,
and demonstration of the proposition assumed, we have
to limit our subject, and divest ourselves of all the preju-
dice and influence, which, going beyond its true timits,
necessarily produces. It is simply, animal life-not spir·
itual life. The former, rests on material causalities, and
is seen in matter, organic and living; the latter, on im-
material causalities, and as separate from matter beyond
the distinction of organic life, in annual formations. As
we have expressed our faith that the electric fluid is mat-
ter, in its essence-the alone material causality, by which
Deity operates; and as it is contended that the soul, spir-
it, is not material, it is evident that, confining ourselves to
the primary laws of nature connected with matter, we
'can give no offence-cannot approach religious fact,
truth, revelation. We must, moreover, in order to meet
the subject fully, and openly, come down from everything
of the ideal, imaginary, invisible world, to this world of
real, palpable existence; we must regard animal life, and
nothing else ; we must regard the subjects we select, in
the combined excellence of all that is seen or known,
from the discoveries, inventions, and skill of universal
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 67
mind, during all the past. Let us then do this. We se-
lect our subject from the perfection of animal life, and at
the time of the highest perfection of animal existence--
in its florescency. This subject is the male and female
of the human species, when the most capable of perpet-
uating existence. They are of the most beautiful of the
hnman race, because Circassian; the most graceful, love-
ly, because of theirformation; clad in the softest, finest,
and most beautiful robes, because such have been thrown
around them by the hand of refined and civilized society ;
in perfect health, else were they not adequate to the work ;
in perfect willingness, desire, affection, else they could
not have been selected, as at the most favorable point of
time in the period of florescency.
Now, in what consists the principle of animal life,
which is seen soon to evolve animal form, and animal ex-
istence ? Whence differs the process, except that fewer
electric, primary centres are formed in passing through
the medium of formation. Here, in these flowers of or-
ganic animal existence, are the anthers, the stigma, and
the pollen. Either of these destroyed, and the work can-
not progress. Here is the pleonasm and the vacuum ; the
one exhausted or the other filled, and it could not com-
mence. Here is the contact, the impartation and recep-
tion; the conducting the materia in its dark, secret, wind-
ing, but certain rout, to its vacuum or resting-place ; and
here is this slowly filling up this c~ntre within; a centre
with the form of human life, animal life; and with it, in
perfection, is eYOlved not into animal life but animal exist-
ence. Animal form and animal life, were in perfection
before, but confined, dependent ; but now unconfined,
self-dependent, free. At the birth, a new electric circu-
lation commenced from an electric vacuum which bad
been formed ; and life, with this new impulse, commenced
as less dependent; not more a reality. The lungs and
arterial blood· constitute this vacuum ; the air-the ma-
teria of conduction, and the freely circulating fluid con-
tained in it, and evolved, on partial decomposition, the
materia to fill it. This being constantly demanded, leaves
oioitized byGoogle
68 ~NIMAL ELECTRICITY.
it a vacuum t-ill death, when the demand ceasing, life ter-
minates of course.
It is true, that in bringing forth the perfection of ani-
mal organic existence, all the electric vacuums which
have been formed, and which all along commence their
operation ; must be filled and emptied by alternate sup-
ply and demand ; demand and supply. The different sys-
tems-gastric, digestive, billiary, urinary, generic; with
their their ten thousand centres, and lines of concomi-
tant action; all the faculties of bearing, tasting, smelling,
feeling; all those organs of the brain which result in de-
sire, thought, sentiment, affection, passion, must be ex-
cited, and brought into lively action : the individual must,
according to his nature, be thrown into his own sphere,
and in twenty years or less, the living, thinking, statue--
the man or woman, is in organic animal existence com·
.plete. Life, however, all along was perfect ; without
some of these conditions, however, it must soon have per-
ished; and without all of these conditions, organic ani-
mal existence could never reach its highest perfection.
' Now, do we wish to bring in observation, experiment.
We have it as fully, clearly, and conclusively presented as
in that of organic, vegetable existence, resulting in vege-
table life, and vegetable life in organic existence.
The female has been, at every week after connubial
endearment, subjected to anatomical examination. The
electric formation bas been traced through the Folapian
tubes, its first electric centre, to the ovaria, thence in a dif-
ferent modification through a continuation of these tubes
into the womb; here, surrounded by the chorion, it has
been watched in its developments to the perfect form. As
none but the dead subject, killed by accident, could be
obtained; comparative animal formation has supplied the
deficiency. The first action of procreative life, has been,
by powerful glasses, seen in larva; to commence in free and
.rapid circulation. In the chrysalis of the worm, and in
.the polywog of the frog, we see the slow, steady and per-
.fect development of one form of animal existence and
Jife into another. The Chrysalis is changed to a gor•
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 69
geous butterfly, with all its superior endowments, tastes,
habits, nature; the tadpole to a frog, with his almost hu-
man form and active limbs.
The human fretus first appears a chaotic mass, with
here and there a filament in a right or circular line.
These continue to multiply. A small red dot which ul-
timately proves the heart, and other centres of action,
which become eyes in connection with the brain, now
appear ; lines of electric action and circulation, forming
arteries, bones, nerves, muscles, and so on, till the whole
is perfected. The first self-action-the electric finid sent
from the brain through the nerves and centres, into the
muscles, is a mere tremulous quivering; by and by, with
the lapse of a few months, it becomes strong and deter-
minate. Thousands of animals have been subjected,
while living, to the knife of the demonstrator; and thus
animal life on to animal existence, fully traced. What
have we here, but observation, txperiment, full, clear and
conclusive. Recollect that it is animal life-its transi-
tion into animal existence, and nothing more. We have
exhibited this in the highest point of perfection; and, in
illustration, confirmed it, by exhibiting the same line of
operation and progression, as it passes through the lower
species of animals in regard to life and animal existence.
And life and existence are still the same. They are dis-
tinct and definite ideas, as the signs of them, and as real-
ities to which these ideas are affixed. Life had become
procreated in the fly, which deposits the egg in the leaf
of the cabbage plant; it remains unchanged in the worm,
which, winding itself up in a non-conductor of heat, be-
comes a chrysalis; in the chrysalis which emerges in a
gorgeous butterfly : but the existence of the egg was not
before it was formed ; nor of the worm, nor of the chrys-
alis, nor of the butterfly. Animal life is one thing, and
individual organic existence is another. Having now dis-
tinct and definite ideas of life and existence, of animal
life and of animal organic existence, and having demon-
strated in the highest series that these are electric effects,
in the line ofcause and effect, antecedent and consequent;
6
oioitized byGoogle
tO ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
we may proceed through all the concomitant lines eoo-
nected with this as the primary, and with this descending
down through all the lower series and their concomitants,
in infinite number and variation; and while the idea re-
mains unchanged, and a conviction of the truth remains
unchanged, we have only confirmation and illustration in
the path of science. Animal life existed in what forme
the oyster, but the existence of the organi"sm-tbe whole,
is the individual oyster, standing out isolated-the is. As
we have pursued this illustration in plants to a considera·
hie extent, we shall be comparatively briE'f in animals.
We shall find, however, that animal life and animal exist•
ence, while they obtain under the same determinate laws
as do those of vegetables, while they are more determin·
ately marked as manifesting sensibility, independent ao.
tion, motion, desire, affection, passion, though determin•
ate on will, reason, judgment, choice, as the case may be,
from the oyster to the man, and from the animalcula seen
from tbe smallness of its magnitude, onlv by two millions
of microscopic enlargement; .and if they exist invisible, on
account of their tenuity, and by perfection in some uno
known science can be ever seen the invisible beings aa
much larger around us, and in attribute above us ; are in
the same parallel lines of order and progression.
The six great classifications of plants, rest on the appear-
ance or non-appearance of sexual connection, and the con•
cealment or open manifestation of their seed to the sight,
with thil addition and distinction, of one or two lobed; te
the two last and highest classes. In passing from these
classifications to the genera embraced, and through the
species of each genera, and through the species which by
combination are formed from these ; there is a different
form, figure, way, organization, texture. In procuring
life, and in evolving existence, there is difference in ac-
tion, motion, time, and the number of entities; and in
the number of centres, producing one or many entities o(
existence. Thus all along, down through all the classifi·
cations, genera, species, orders, names, there is somethi~g
seen or known, common to the individual cllll!S, genera
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY, 71
apeeies, order; or incidental to the name. It is the same
with the (1) classifications of animals. It is true, the
classifications are not as distinct; in language, religious
faith and sentiment, having eo divided the attention, and
confounded the judgment, either antecedently or eubse-
quently, as to leave language deficient and confined ; but
yet, we see by what is, what ought to have been; and in
passing down from classifications to genera, specie~, or-
ders, as we have already observed, it is something that
exists; is seen and known, special and peculiar, which
gives the name, and assigns the location, of each partic-
ular. In each, and in all these, there is something r;pe-
cial, as to the organism. In form, position, figure, number,
perfection, design, use, end, operation, time, result, they
vary. It is true, we are limited in ~ome points-some
one particular, in these incidents, because of the imper-
fection of our faculties. The oyster may have as many
- organs as a man; so that in number, they would be the
same; but in every other respect, in something, they
would be different. Bringing in the aid of comparative
anatomy and phrenology, in the highest series; man ; we
find the greatest simplicity, distinctness, and wisdom dis-
played. As in the most perfect machine, there are no
useless wheels, springs, pivots; t!o unnecessary rnoti~n
gained, or necessary, lost; no unneceesary provision, or
expenditure of power ; each particular part adjusted to
itself, and every part to the whole; so in man, each and
all is perfect, in his organic existence-in an organ-
ism adjusted to effect the highest object-the perfec-
tion of animal organic matter. In hi'l brain is seen, as
in no other, the largest number of orgam'!, all needed, ad-
justed, balanced, and distinct; and yet, all perfectly unit-
ed, as the most perfect piece, of the most perfect mech-
anism, We see the ti88ues of infinitely fine dqcts; we
see the machine in operation as the man ; expressed in
language, looks, gesture, that which is peculiar to his na-
ture ; we mark, as different portions of his brain is laid
bare by surgical operation, the distinct, independent ao-
•ioQ of each organ ; and then, its limited, dependent re-
oioitized byGoogle
72 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
action, with correlative organs; Jiving, we see some
organs of the brain paralized, and destroyed, by vio-
lence; dead, we trace the connection and central point
from the lines of infatuation, derangement, decay; di&-
secting the brain, itself, we come, finally, to the central
point of all ; and from these lines of action, leading from
line to line, from centre to centre, to every limb, muscle,
gland, and articulating fibre of the whole body. All
these are electric centres, and become, under all circum-
stances of action, either electric pleona~ms, or vacuums
to each other. Here, then, in this organism of man, we
have the most perfect organism of organic animal matter,
in animal organic existence. He is as dependent in re-
gard to all the circumstances of his being, as the plant;
and as much more so, as he is the more perfect. With-
out air, he instantly dies. In a multitude-a forest of
men, in solitude himself, isolated, unknown, he in a few
years, becomes more changed than a tree; food, action,
rest, calling, thought, desire, passion, all change-the rel-
ative size and position of the organs of his brain, and the
whole form and aspect of the man. Long to neglect to
use certain organs, leaves them almost entirely to perish.
This holds good, down through all the lower order of
animals. ·
Having specified those points, in which animal organic
existence differs from vegetable, and having shown the
determinate lines of action in each, to be electric effects,
we have all the illustration and confirmation, the subject de-
mands. To the ichthyologist, onnithologist, zoologist, anat-
omist, chemist, is left the pleasing task ofcarrying out these
principles-these primary laws of nature; that animal
life and death are electric effects; and that, too, in all
their concomitancy with animal organic existence, flores-
cency &nd decay. Thus, in all that is palpable, demon-
atrable, known; our argument is conclusive, and our de-
monstration complete. If there be a soul in man, distinct,
but now dependent on the body; at death, living, distinct,
and independent of the body; if there is to be a re-union
of soul and body in a spiritual state; the evidence, proof,
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 73
-demonstration, rest on other ground thnn we occupy ;
and if there is not, it does not affect in the least, our ar-
gument. That ground is revelation ; we have stood on
what is called material existence; and having discovered
the unity of matter, and the fundamental laws, by which
it operates, have only demonstrated aU that is seen in or-
ganic animal life, and organic animal existence, to be ef..
fects under the operation of thisJ as a material causality,
in its action and re-action on its own formations. In
taking a survey of the whole subject, we must come to
the conclusion, th.
at animal life and animal existence, are
as various and multiplied in number and degree, as pos-
•ibility can produce. That wherever animal life and ex-
istence can be, there it is.
CHAPTER IX.
INSTINCT AND REASON--oNE AND THE SAME. AND REASON
SUPERIOR IN MAN, BECAUSE OF THE MORE EXCELLENT
ORGANISM OF HIS BODY.
This subject rests upon a broad and firm foundation.
It follows in the order of nature and reason. We have
examined bodies destitute of vitality ; those possessed of
vitality, but destitute of sensibility; and, finally, those
which, possessed of sensibility, have determinate self-
action, motion, choice, will, desire, affection, passion,
thought, judgment; varying in some, as individuals, and
in all, as·the amount; from imperceptibility, up to the full,
clear, distinct and triumphant display seen in man-the
perfection of organic existence. We have cleared our
subject from all diversion in thought, any obstacle in
prejudice, or contradiction in fact. We now plainly
etate, and openly affirm, that which we shall SOOD conclu-
6•
igitize1byGoogle
. 74 . ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
· sively and demonstrably prove ;-that instinct anil rea-
. son are one and the same ; and that reason is superior in
man only because of the more excellent organism of his
body. First, then, let us establish the point, that instinct
and reason are the same.
Instinct, means, literally, tltat which is infused; and,
as is generally used, means that which Deity has implant-
ed in the nature of the animal formation, inferior to man.
Reason, in its literal acceptation, means that which turns
itself perfectly to the thing; and, as now received, is sup-
posed to be that faculty which man alone possesses;-
. which enables him to think, know, compare, judge, de-
termine; and in the line of cause and effect, antece-
dent and consequent, go on to make continued advances
in science, to an unknown and unlimited extent. It is the
ratio of an infinite series in the line of human existence.
We shall now, for a few moments, lay aside all our re-
ligious feeling in prepossession and prejudice, and exam-
ine the subject in the pure light of reason; that attribute
in which we exclusively glory. 'l'his is what the subject
and our duty require. It is purely matter of fact which
we are to examine, and then, after such examination, sim-
ply to decide. It is not whether man has, or has not, a
soul; nor whether inferior animals have, or have not, a
spirit ; but whether each has reason ; that by which they
know, think, compare, judge, determine. It is not how far
superior is man to them, or they each to the other; but
do all possess. The soul, spirit, spiritual existence, be-
long to another place, and to another science, and profes-
sion of men.
Have animals and men-those which have been called
the rational and irrational creation, each, reason 7-
0r, in other words, do the inferior animals reason 7 Do
they reason, and in the exercise of the same faculties and
organs of man, so far as they are in common possessed by
them 7 They certainly have the same avenues of knowl-
edge-seeing, hearing,·tasting, smelling, feeling. The
eye, ear, nose, palate, skin, are to each the electric vae·
·uums through which the brain is affected, and they know.
igitize1byGoogle
.ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 75
· That they act on such communicated knowledge, is evi-
dent from the fact that they manifest fear, hope, desire,
affection, determination, choice, concert, design, perse-
verance, wisdom. None, attentive to fact, or who believe
the Bible, can deny this. Let us sustain, howe\·er, our
position, by a series of facts.
Beavers select the fittest place for a dam ; choose the
most favorable season of the year to build it; form their
dam in the best direction to resist the force of the stream;
live in a community of public interest, yet have huts of
their own, made two stories, and plastered; lay up their
food; visit, and repair promptly at call to prevent a com-
mon evil. The ants are well known to prepare their habi-
tations as a community to provide food, and lay it up in
storehouses, wisely constructed for the purpose ; and to
impart to each other in the most rapid manner, the
most important information. They not only know, un-
derstand, but accredit. If there is an obstacle thrown in
the line of march, or a prize laid a little out of their way,
the discoverer wheels in direct countermarch, and con-
veys the intelligence by stopping a moment to converse with
each of his fellows. If it be an obstacle of danger, there
is an instant halt, and return of most of the band, and
the second express brings back all with him ; if a prize,
they hasten on, and the second messenger accelerates the
march of the whole army. The testimony of two is ever
sufficient. Any one may make the experiment on their
civil and political economy. The bee, to all these per-
fections in the economy of life, has evidently one of the
most perfect governments that ever existed: They not
only, as male and female, propagate animal life; in a
body seek a fit habitation; construct its interior wisely,
in regard to room, safety, convenience ; but they have
the most perfect civil and political polity that can possi-
bly be conceived. They are regularly divided into great
classes, and thence into sub-divisions. Each knows his
place, and duty. In time of peace, from the king down
to the lowest subject, each discharges his respective du-
ties, or meets the penalty. They prepare and send oft"
oioitized byGoogle
76 .UIDU.L ELECTRIC~•
.colonies, all adjusted as to government and laws; and if
the colony has made an abeolute departure, there is no
J'eturn. In time of war, they set and relieve guard, rank
and file, at the entrance of the hive. They know their
own, and after examining, let them pass ; while they as in-
stantly recognize, and then as instantly inflict death on
the enemy. While this is transpiring, the front and sec-
ond line is instantly fiUed up by two in the front, and
three in the rear rank. The enemy destroyed and dash-
ed without the apiary, ignominiously to the earth, they
return triumphantly to the hive, and enter to receive
their rest and reward. Birds of passage, before they
leave for a far distant region, diet themselves by almost ex-
treme abstinence, during three weeks before their aerial
journey. After they have become light, being divested
{)f all unnecessary flesh, they then feed richly with a me-
dium of exercise; and a few days before their departure
they take frequent flights, each more long and lofty. On
the day of their flight they arrange, according to age and
strength, and in the best possible form, to meet the least
resistance ; rise and press with undeviating course on-
ward to theirdestined clime. The martin will return with
all its progeny from year to year to the same plantation.
It selects its companion ; builds its nest; has been known
when it could not expel its enemy, to wall it in with mud
-imprison, and starve it to death. It feeds most assid-
uously its young; is full of sport, chat, activity ; but a
few days before its young are old enough to fly, gradually
withholds its food, then imparts it rather more abundant-
ly; and, as soon as strong enough, and sufficiently well
fledged, after teaching it by hovering before it how to
trust to the air and use its wings, it withholds it altogeth-
er, and by presenting it at a distance too great for it to
reach, tempts it, till, overpoised, it has to use its unaccus-
tomed and trembling pinions. The dove selects its mate,
is delicately affectionate, unchangingly faithful; and not
unfrequently, at the lo!!S of its mate, dies in sorrow at
its loss. The dog, the horse, the monkey, the lion, the
elephant, have all been taught to perform according to
,,giti_e byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICI'l'Y. 77·
their nature, a most perfect part in theatrica1 exhibi-
tions. The Newfoundland dog, never taught, for it is
beyond instruction, plucks a child from the fire ; and at
the expense of its comfort, and hazard of its life, dashes
among the snow and ice of a mountain torrent, and saves
its sinking master: or when it cannot entirely rescue
him, runs, selects and returns with help. To give the
finish to intellectual and sentimental excellence-know-
ing th'lt he is dead, it not unfrequently watches by his
tomb, till it makes it the grave of his own faithfulness
artd dust ! And is this not reason 1 Most assuredly it
is, and that in lively and most striking exhibition, because
it is seen in those of inferior organism to man. But if
in these, then in all ; and it follows, as a necessary conse-
quence, that instinct and reason are one and the same
thing. It follows, also, as a necessary consequence, that
reason is superior iu man, because of the excellent or-
ganism of his body. This adapts him to all the duties,
privileges and enjoyments of his higher sphere. He has
the more capacious brain, the more multiplied and nicely
balanced organs, the more perfect hand, the more up-
right form. He can record the wisdom of the past, and
profit in the acquisition of science from universal mind.
Still, few political governments are as perftct as that of
t~ bee; while many of the human race debase reason,
d!!krade humanity, and sink far beneath the beast.
It may be said that education, instruction, effects much in
regard to what we see in the dog, horse and monkey. Edu-
cation, instruction, only direct, elicit; they cannot create,
reason. The organism, must be there. Memory, action,
in time, place, number, in degrees, in strength, lines of
position ; and, all along; judgment must exist.
We wish this subject to be fairly, fully and conclusively,
examined. It is time we had definite ideas, on principles
and lines of action, which lie at the very foundation of
truth, and are intimately connected with the operation of
those primary laws which govern the universe.
The argument, that the fish, fowl, beast, ins~t, never,
collectively, learn any more; and that the individua1 bird
oioitized byGoogle
'7S ANIHAL BLBCTRICITY,
never improves on its nest, therefOre it is mere instinct;
lVhile man, because he does, and the individual of the hu-
man race, because he can, improve, is therefore endowed
alone with reason ; is altogether presumptive atld falla-
cious. We cannot enter into their science; we do not
understand their language; we are ignorant of the keen-
ness of their faculties, the extent of their observations.
They mark out new regions of migration, improve from
association, and, for aught we know, the individual bird
may make a better nest. But were it not the case, it
would be the perfection of reason, that it could, in its
sphere, operate invariably right, and never wrong. In all
the less amiable sentiments and passions-in cupidity, de-
ceit, jealousy, revenge, we have, in the animal creation,
the strongest marks of reason, intellij!'ence, mind. They
travel for miles, to gratify desire. Many make use of
the most consummate deceit to foil their enemy, or secure
their prey. The squirrel castrates every male it possibly
can, to secure its own dominion in enjoyment. The cock
will fight to the death. The elephant never forgets nor
forgives an insulting injury. Are all these things-and
ten thousand might be enumerated, mere instincts ; or are
they the results of will, determination, reflection, thought,
reason 1 Most assuredly, the latter. We see all these
things, as manifestations of reason, exciting passion, ac-
tion, as plainly demonstrated, as it would be possible to
be, in man. We mark, then, all in the actions, motions,
looks. If the martin fasten in the unjust occupant of
her house, with a wall of clay, slowly and perseveringly
eonstructed ; it is because she is determined on this meth-
od, to overcome, and get revenge; if the fox, or cat,
crouches low, and lies still, all the time intent on the
mouse or fowl, or creeps stealthily along, and then pounces
upon them; it is sensible of the necessity, and intends the
deception; if the squirrel emasculates all the he ones he
ean possibly find and master ; if he gets others to help
him effect his purpose; and if the male rabbit kills all
the male young ones, if he can find them ; it is because
of prel!eot jealousy, or prospective defeat in his amato-
oioitized byGoogle
ANUUL ELECTRICITY.
ry career ; if the cook will fight to the death-watch,
charge, defend, to the last; aim tn wound, kill, it is be.
cause be seeks revenge and shuns defeat; if the elephan'
uever forgets an injury followed by insult, but will avenge
it for days afterward, in a wise and summary manner; it
is because he remembers, reflects, reasons, feels, deter•
mines; and on such remembrance, reflection, reason, sen•
timent, acts; and finally, iflhe bee, in time of war, places
his double guard, passes his fellows, and arrests and exe-
cutes his enemies; and, in all this, manifests regularity, obe-
dience, promptitude, decision, courage, passion ; it is be-
cause be sees, knows, reasons upon, and then enters up-
on, and executes his plans of self-defence, and political
revenge. Away, then, with instinct. Say that it is rea-
son, acting in its special and limited sphere. The in•
stinct of animals, is then the reason of animals; and
though in less degree, rests on the same· foundation as
that of man, The senses, faculties, organs, reason, feel·
ings, ofone common animal nature-in man superior, be-
cause of the higher excellence of his organic existence,
This is true, in fact, science, experience, observation.
CHAPTER X.
THE DIFFERENT RACEIJ OF MEN, LANGUAGE, LAWS, GOV•
ERNMENT, RELIGION.
It is but of late that any special attention has been paid
to the different races which compose the human family~
Their color has been supposed to be the result of climate ;
their peculiar·constitution and formation to the manner of
life, habits, calling, society, and their language to have
resulted from one common original tongue-or if there
was anything surprising, unaccountable, it was resolved
into a miracle, or the divine will. Things are now regard-
ed differently, and the attention of the benevolent and
oioitized byGoogle
80 ANIMAL ELECTRICIT'r.
intelligent, is called up to a special investigation of facts;
instead of theories, and to ·demonstrations of truth a11
seen in reality, instead of resting on the authority of man.
The age of theory and authority is passed; and that of
sound sense, sober reason, and free investigation, arrived;
Every theory is reduced to experiment, and, as far as pos·
sible, has to sustain this double ordeal of truth. ·
· As it regards the different races of men, they are gen-
erally regarded as consisting of five varieties. The Cir·
cassian, Mongolian, Malayan, African, Indian-there is,
however, another race recognized by some as the Oceanic.
This, however, found in mountains ofthe islands in the In·
dian and Pacific, south of Asia, probably belongs to the
origin of the negro race. These five races are distinctly
marked. The Circassian race is distinguished for ele-
gance of form, fairness of skin, elevation, fullness, and
breadth of forehead, lightness of eyes, hair, grace and in·
telligence.
The Mongolian race has yellow skin, straight, black
hair, square head, flat face, small flat nose, prominent
cheeks, and pointed chiri.
The Malay race has a brown skin, black, curly hair,
soft and luxuriant; prominent, but rather low forehead;
thick, wide, flat nose, and projecting upper jaw.
The African race has black color, wool for hair; thick
lips, projecting cheek-bones, large flat nose, raised chin,
receding forehead; crooked legs, long heels, and flat feet.
The Indian is copper color, coarse, straight, black hair;
high cheek bones, sunken eyes, low, narrow, recedant
forehead, nose and face broad, nostrils open, lips thick.
· The Abysinians are almost identified as a distinct race,
being of a violet color, resembling pale ink. These races, ·
in some instances, vary in themselves, on account of cli-
mate and manner of life, but are so strongly marked, that
all philosophers, however they may attempt to account for
their existence, still agree in acknowledging that they are
specifically different. If placed one of each in a dark
room, they could be discriminated by feeling.
To attempt to account for this variety in the human
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 81
race, from climate, food, manners, is impossible ; because
in the same climate we find the Indian, and Circassian,
and Malayan, and Negro, living on the same food, the
herbs, grain, and animals, of land and water ; we find the
same in sections, and yet unchanged ; and on the same
parallels of latitude all, more or less, in refined society,
remain unchanged and determinate. Some have ascribed
it to perpetuated disease, primogenial deformity ; but dis-
eases and deformities are never thus perpetuated. We
may, nay we must come to the conclusion, that these are
distinct races of men. We are further led to believe this
from the fact, that two thousand years have made no
change, as recognised by history ; and that, with observ-
ant, intelligent men, sixty years have not effected the
slightest variation. We do not say different species, but
different races. To determine to what race different
tribes belong, is of little use to science; but to ascertain
whence, from what series of causes they have mounted
up from an African, black, woolly, flat-nosed and footed,
thick lipped, monkey cunninged, velvet skinned; to the
Circassian; fair, elegant, noble, intelligent, graceful; is
worthy of the most unwearied efforts of the most talented
and learned. To ascertain these causes is tile ohject of
this chapter, and the design of the electric science and
philosophy.
There is no reason, however, that we should not affirm
that there arc different species of men. The canine race
and the feline racf! embrace all the species of dogs and
cats; and yet, who hesitates to say that the Newfound-
land dog, the lox, the wolf, the common bull-dog, terrier,
are different species of the canine race ; or that the pan-
ther, leopard, domestic cat, different species of the feline 1
Is there in either as great a difference as between the fair
Circassian and woolly Oceanic Negro 1 The reason, how-
ever, that we should object, is, because we gain nothing.
\Ve advance no nearer the truth. We discover no rea-
son, no material causality, adequate to produce these
effects. We see nothing of the origin of these races.
Species will not do ;-they do not go too far; but do not
7
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
go far enough. We, therefore, return from a mere verbal
change, and propose, for our serious inquiry, what are
the causes why there are different races of men on the
earth 1 The theological difficulty, if any, which may
arise, will afterwards be adjusted, if adjusted it can be, in
the light of science and of fact. And here let us remem-
ber, that the subject before us regards material, visible
existence, and not immaterial, invisible; that it regards
men, not angels ; the races of mE'n, and not of the invisi·
ble beings composing " thrones and dominions, princi-
palities and powers;" on and of this earth; and not in
and of venus, the sun, heaven.
Let us, in the examinatil.ri of the subject, forget, for a
few moments, all our preconceived opinions; lay aside our
prejudices; and turn the eye from all real and imaginary
greatness ; and as we dtd in a former instance, forget sunS',
and worlds; the boundlessness of space; the infinity of
systems, in infinite variety, inconceivably rapid, and com·
plicated motion; in order that we might regard plants in
connection with vegetable life and vegetable existence-
so let us forget the real and imaginary greatness ofthe
invisible world ; those moral and intellectual satellites
and planets; those stars of truth, holiness, glory, and all
but the upholding, omniscient, invisible, omnipresent-
the " am;" that we may examine man in his physical,
corporeal constitution, his origin, nature, race; or, rather,
since as to his origin and nature, we have already be-
come convinced ; the different races ; their origin, cause,
in which we find them. We have here nothing to do with
his soul, 11pirit; but his body; and not even with his body,
any farther than the specific difference which identifies
the race. We have nothing to do with genera and spe-
cies, in themselves considered. We admit that man is of
the animal race, from animus-mind, spirit; and a con·
naction of" Alia," implying existence; that be is a human
being, formed of humus, the vegetable mould; that there
are different races of men. In one word, we are to dis·
cover and demonstrate the alone material causality, which
has generated the distinct races of men. ·
oioitized byGoogle
ANUIAL ELECTRICiTY. 83
Our subject is now isolated and distinct. It is on the
table before us.:-and so is our work, a work of discovery
and demonstration. Happily, as it regards discovery,
everything is prepared at our hand. Geologie science gives
us a foundation of solid adamant, which no power can
shake. Let us state a series of facts and demonstrable
truths, sufficient in number to answer our present pur-
pose, and, at the same time, remove the objections which
have been urged, militating against them; and then we
shall be able to rear up a temple "composed of gold, sil-
ver, precious stones."
In geologic science, we have fully confirmed and es-
tablished the following facts. The granite is the lowest -
strata in the earth to which man has penetrated ; or the
materea of which, in rock, he has, by physical violence,
seen thrown upon its surface. It is the gray, hard, crys-
talized rock, of which the Astor House, N. Y., is com·
posed, and which generally constitutes the summits of
our loftiest mountains. It composes not the summit rock
of all mountains, because there are some sections in the
lines of special stratification, in which this, in common
with every other, is entirely absent. It, however, per-
vades, lies the lowest, and circuminspheres the earth.
There are above this, ten series of stratification, distinct-
ly marked, specifically identified; each of which is un-
changed in its order of position, and, of which we may
say, in regard to all above, in an unchanging order of
position, it is the lowest; and of all below it, it is the
highest ;-pervades and circuminspheres our globe. Any
one may be sectionally wnnting, or volCanic, electric
physical influence, have sectionally forced through it, or
all, and then in masses ejected oyer the surface of the
portions of different formation ; but in its order of posi-
tion, it is never changed. It is as a lamina, a distinct
formation in the earth's shell, never above or below.
Hence, the value of geologic science to the miner. It is
absolutely, palpably, mathematically, sure. The indices
of a known ratio, are no~ Je~s S!Jf!~, aplf ab~lutel)' knowp1
and determinate, ·
,,giti_e byGoogle
84 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
The old red pudding sand stone forms a stratum in
one of this strata, and lies between (in locality passing
by some of the series) the granite and coal formation.
In this formation, extensively pervading the earth, we
have pebbles of all sizes and colors, in infinite variety,
from common stone to the hardest and purest flint or silex.
They have been worn round by attrition. They are firm-
ly imbedded and encased. The direct inference and os-
tensible fact is, that, before the coal formation, there was
a universal deluge, and before that deluge, all the variety
of formations of which they are composed.
The coal formation is circumsphered between the old
red sand stone, and the new red sand stone. This is
composed principally of vegetable matter, and is found
from the extreme north to the southern frigid zone. That
it is a universal formation_and special deposit, in the or-
der of some periodical change in the high line of cause
and effect, yet to be determined, and not from electric
circulation and deposit, as in the case of the materea in
the glasses, is evident, because vast forests of trees are
found in their natural form-roots, bark, limbs, embedded
in, and changed to coal. These trees could never have
been carried there, upward or downward, through the
other stratifications; besides, all this materea was, before
its formation, organic vegetable existence, sustained by
vegetable life.
The new red sand stone is a formation of vast amount.
The flint and chalk lie directly below the four vast pe-
riods, identified by the filling in the hollow places of the
earth, and in animal organic matter, the dividing line be-
tween petrefactions and skeleton remains.
These four periods, as we have already observed, are
identified by the remains of land and sea animals, incar-
cerated above or below each other in solid rock. They
are never changed. First, we have land animals, then
sea animals, then land animals; and, finally, land and sea
animals concrete. These identify the Eocene, Mocene,
Older and Newer Peocene periods. . ·
Geologic science establishes, then, the fact, that tbero
oioitized byGoogle
.ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
have been various and universal changes, in regard to our
earth, far more important than a solitary deluge, ''covering
every hill and mountain, fifteen cubits and upwards."
"There have been vast ceonomies; periods of vast dura-
tion." ·
In speaking of plants, we were Jed to state the fact,
that there were four grand periods of fossil botany, iu
which no two species of the six great classifications of
plants which were found in the one, were found in the
other; and that they Jay between the granite and the coal;
the coal and the new red sand stone; the new red sand
stone and the flint and chalk; and the flint and chalk
and the present surface of the earth, or vegetable soil. It
is also true, that the size of different vegetables has de-
pended· on the electric condition of the earth and atmos-
phere, and that these changes have been thus efft!cted.
As it regards organic animal remains, we have, from
the granite to the coal, the impressions of shells, and the·
forms of vegetables. Of the shell fish, nothing remaining
but the stamp; and of vegetables, the mould, and a little
carbonaceous earth. In the coal, we have the snake,
toad and lizzard, occasionally broken out alive. From
the coal up to the flint and chalk, we ha\·e petrefactions
of animals and plants; and from the flint and chalk, the
skeleton3 of animals. Of shell-fish, the ol!trea or oyster,
is the only one in genus or species, which has come clown
to us; this only, ofall that existed from the formation ofthe
granite. In genera and species, they have been forming
and perishing, all the way up through myriads ofages--peri-
ods of vast duration. Of•other animals, this has been also
strikingly manifest. Many, in genera and species, have
perished. After we arrive at thP. Meocean Period, we find
thirteen species of the elephant; four of hyena; many of
foxes, birds, and of the thick skinned animals, which
have thus become extinct. As we pass upward, we find
various species, as of the horse, deer, antelope, first ap-
pear. The diluvium of Noah, or a deluge, is identified
by the surface of the earth, all over the world ; but the re-
7•
oioitized byGoogle
86 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
mains of man, as a part of its ruins, are no tDkerc to k
found.
We have, now, all the materea we need, to construct
our edifice; and we insist on the truth of this demonstra-
ble proposition, that the different races of men have each
resulted in regular order, from some of those stupenduous
changes which have thus affected the earth, and its vege-
table and animal existence. These changes have trans-
pired-these results are seen. It would be with man, the
same as with plants and animals, did he exist. But it is
affirmed, he did not exist, because his remains are not to
be found. We affirm that he did exist, and that his re-
mains are not to be found, because of their perishable
nature-besides, the argument that he did not exist, be-
cause his remains are not to be found, would prove too
much, both in fact and for the purpose for which it is us-
ed. We might then say, and believe with the utmost con-
. fidence, man did not exist before the last deluge, because
his bones are no more perishable than those of animals,
and his bones are no where to be found; but the bones of
animals, are, in vast quantities, of those, living only in the
torrid zone, piled up in masses in the polar regions, and
strewed and scattered, as if by the waves of ocean, and
the winds of heaven. We might say, that grass did not
exist, and ten thousand kinds of plants, because their re-
mains are not to be found; when the remains of the ani-
mals are found, which lived only on grass, and the ani-
mals now exist, bt>neath whose feet everything perishes,and
ofwhich nothing can be petrified. The fact is, the remains
of man cannot be preserved by any electric process of na-
ture. He is the most perfect organic formation of ani-
mal existence, and thereforP. soon perishes. This is true
in fact, experiment. Other animals are found in a state
of petrefaction, but man is not. Of all the armies whose
slain have been scattered, and left on the surface of the
earth, in petrefactive regions; of all the travellers that
have perished, we have not one solitary instance. His
bones consigned to the earth, put in caverns, multisphe-
rated by coffin within coffin, cannot be preserved in form
oioitized byGoogle
ANl&IAL ELECTRICITY, 87
Or substance. In Indian mounds, standing for ages, we
have nothing left but a little white chalky earth; and in
the mausoleums of kings, there is only a small line of
black, carbonaceous matter lying along through the cen-
tre of the coffin which contained the body. The only
rational conclusion then is-if man did exist, his re-
mains are not to be found, because there has existed no
natural or artificial process by which they could be pre-
served. The question, then, is simply this, did he exist 1
The only proof we have, are the distinct races before us.
We descend regularly, from the Circassian, down to the
woolly, black, ape-formed African, whose lowest members
are below the monkey, in all the attributes of reason
which pertain to each. There is a regular descent in or-
ganic perfection, and in reason; resulting from the more
or less excellent organic formation. What have we here 1
Why that which can be accounted for by no law in ordi-
nary electric formation 1 It is not the result of climate,
nor of food, nor of manners, nor of education, nor of all
combined. What then 1 Why, they each are the distinct
remains of a race of a former economy. The Negro far
back, and the Mongolian the more near, and the Circas-
sian the last formation of the last great change.
The conclusion, then, is inevitable; that the different
races of men have each resulted in regular order, from
some of those great changes which have thu!~ affected the
earth, and its vegetable organic existence. This conclu-
sion is warranted by the inductive philosophy, that when
all other causes assignable, are inadequate to produce an
effect, then that which alone, is, and under the same cir-
cumstances, has ; may be assumed as the true, and only
true one. And there is nothing, either in truth or reason,
which can authorize- us to reject such a result. Let no one,
then, flinch from the conclusion, because there are diffi-
culties in the way of our further progress, and because
religion is concerned. We are to remove these difficul-
ties, and the electric science demands that we leave the
religion of man untouched, in its excellence and efficiP-n·
cy; stripped or all the darkness, gloom, and despondency,
oioitized byGoogle
88 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
· which friends and enemies have thrown around it. Tk
· difficulties now; religion in the place assigned it in the
caption and subject before us.
We say that on the falling in of some portions of the
crust of the earth, or on a changed polarity, or on both
conjoined, there has been a vast destruction of human
life; and that at each time, commencing with the Ocean-
ic Negro, some, of all the races then existing, escaped;
and that the Circassian race is an electric formation
of the last great change. Thi:>, though our affirmation,
our opinion. our theory, is, nevertheless, capable of as
strong confirmation as the subject requires. Let us ad-
duce some facts, in regard to all but the last position.
That will require a distinct consideration.
It is a fact, that the surface ofthe earth, by which we mean
its crust, continents, islands, oceans, seas, carries this two
fold aspect. It has so been considered by the greatest
men -that is, that it has at some period been larger; and
that its crust has fallen in towards its centre ; and that its
polarity has been changed. That the earth has revolved
on a different a~s, is demonstrable, from the fact, that
the coal formation circuminspherates the whole globe;
that now, on the present surface of the earth, a vast
amount of animal remains are found in polar regions,
which could have belonged only to animals which had
been produced in tropical climates; that the different
stratifications of the earth being universal, and regularly
disposed, and the hollow places of the earth regularly
filled up by deposit above deposit, are so identified by or-
ganic remains, as not to be mistaken; and that these,
with ten thousand striking instances, so marked and de-
terminate, as to leave mind, perfected by the most excel·
lent organic formation, in thousands of individuals, to
rest in full conviction of the fact; are sufficient to con·
vince us of a changed polarity. The facility of such a
change in worlds, is greater than in smaller forms and
modifications of matter. They are globular; are in emp-
ty space; are retained in their position,as already demon·
strated, simply by electric eliptie motion, in action and
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 89-
reaction. As this position of which we speak-the rev•
olution of our earth on its present axis, was the effect of
an equilibrium of electric forces, as it regards itself; so
also, can it, as regards the direction of its poles to any
point in the heavens, within the whole sweep of the
starry firmament, be directed by the disturbance of
that equilibrium; and this is, as seen in the econ·
omy of things; though in remote periods, easily af·
fected. It is no doubt, however, brought about by the
instrumentality of a combination of causes, which, with
this, as with all worlds, is put in play at stated pe-
riods ; and, although we understand perfectly the prin·
ciple, may, as to the special, determinate causes, and fix-
edness of time, be forever above and beyond us. The
sun has its annual motion; it has, therefore, its centre-
it has its diurnal; it has, therefore, its polar star. To us,
it is the source of electric action. A change in its inter-
nal construction, causing it to withhold the quantum we
receive, would leave the earth to wander, as to its axis,
to ano\her point in the heavens. Again, a change in the
condition of the interior and exterior portion of the earth,
might change the earth's electric capacity, and the same
result follow. The greater the change, the more rapid
and stupendous the consequences.
That the earth, and all spherical, consolidating bodies,
become hollow spheres, we have before considered ; since
there is less in centrifugal motion, in its revolution, to
confine to the centre; since all bodies, in consolidating,
occupy less space; and, from the fact, that the exterior
surface of such a body, is the first consolidated. On this
shell will rest the consolidated weight of the ocean and
atmosphere. What shall prevent this yielding to the stu-
pendous weight; especially, when we reflect that volcanic
forces are at work within? The rings around Saturn are
supposed to have been thus formed; and, when we con-
sider this grand law of consolidation and electric excen-
tration, which is now demonstrably and experimentally
true; we may confidently and warrantably affirm, and be-
lieve, that they were. This will account for those higher
igitize1byGoogle
90 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
convulsions, which are seen in islands thrown up, and
continents almost entirely submerged ; lofty plataus, and
beds of seas which strike the eye. The four last changes
have evidently been less violent, and it is from thesa we
date the different races of men. We need not pursue the
subject any farther, in regard to these two points, Wheth-
er a changed polarity, in itself considered, or a changed
polarity and a breaking in of the surface, and some por-
tions of its surface mingling the formations of matter in
a more or less perfect aqueous or fiery deluge, is immate-
rial. These great changes have taken place; these dis-
_
tinct races do exist; and it is only on this ground, that
the former could have taken place, and the latter have
existed.
In regard to the continued production of a new race of
men on every changed polarity, it rests on the same and
no more difficult ground, than that of a new race of ani-
mals of the brute creation. This we have already demon-
strated. The argument, it will be recollected, is simply
this. If they are all along up in different races, and spe-
cies reproduced, why not new races and species of men;
but they are thus produced, so also is man, and thus to
believe and teach, both rational and true. But not with-
out an instrumentality and cause adequate to produce the
effect. This we have to infer, but our inference is sus-
tained by all the proof which the subject demands. As
we have never experienced a changed polarity, we cannot
have experience; and since every thing from others must
be traditionary, we cannot have historic fact. It is not
expected that we see men and women starting up from
the water or ground, any more than any of those more
beautifully moulded and graceful animals, which rise upon
us in the grand changes and reformations of different'
portions of the earth. We, however, in the moulds, pet-
refactions and skeletons, read the former in the history of
the globe, more sure in its demonstrations in lines of
earth and rock, than mathematical demonstration. And
in the existence of the races; and the tradition of the thus
emerging the horse and woman i we have all that is requir·
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 91
ed to make conviction complete. The tradition is, that
Neptune brought forth the horse from the waves of the
sea, and Venus from its foam. Whence the tradition
without the fact, or rather the reality of a more graceful
horse, and beautiful female, having emerged from the
deep 1 This is sustained in the first instance by the fact,
that the horse has appeared ; and, in the second, that the
more beautiful race does exist. This is illustrated, and
made easy to faith, from several facts. It is a fact, that it
is one way by which electric centres are formed in pro-
gressive existence with life unchanged. The frog is from
the water. This is the electric medium. Thousands of
different flies and anamalcula are from this element.
Now what would take place on a changed polarity in
regard to some of the most interesting centres of human
existence? Millions of females would at the moment be
enciente ; and just at that period, too, when all was pre-
pared for perfect formation. They would, the more deli-
cate and amiable, swoon away, and in this semi-living.
state, soon become emersed in electric menstruums, soft
and energetic enough to crush, and at the same time warm
enough slowly to evolve the embryo. This might remain for
ages, and finally perfected, in form, strength and beauty,
come forth into the Iight ofthe sun, and communionofman.
This is nature's process; and it was thus that the last
race was formed ; and at their turns, the different ones,
in their order, which compose the other. We are brough~
to this, as the alone legitimate conclusion. This is no
more wonderful than the production of new species of
plants and vegetables, by just mingling their seeds in the
air, and then depositing the centre formed in the ground;
nor than the change of the mote in the water to a beauti-
fully tufted fly, in whose eye alone can be counted thou-
sands of t"lectric circles. Here only is the frequency-
the thing, the operation, the result is the same. This
does not militate against religion, nor does it weaken the
the Mosaic account of the creation of the world, and the
formation of man. It is evident, on inspection, that man
has been left to form his own religion, so far as his in-
oioitized byGoogle
92 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
strumentality is concerned ; and, if there be anything un-
der the special operation of Deity, in regard to him, it is
through the instrumentality of material causalities. The
essential truths, whether affirmed more or less clearly, or
predicted more or less distinctly, are all there; the first
in fact ; the second in the purpose of an unchanging
God. Had all been taught-which could not have been,
there would have been nothing further to know. It is
sufficient that there is a God ; and, that, as a whole, eve-
rything is infinitely wise, good, beautiful and glorious.
The progress of science, compels us, in every branch of
human knowledge, to use different terms, phrases, lan-
guage, thought, sentiment, faith, teaching ; and why not
in religion? It has, and does. Say that Moses wrote
as a man, and that God discovered to him-if indeed he
did, just what he was pleased ; and we have all that is
required; and to this conclusion and teaching we have to
come.
Thus we have established the fact; that different races
of men do not only exist; but that their existence has re-
sulted from the great changes which have taken place
during intervals of vast duration, and from the electric
perpetuity of human life, in animal existence. Thus be-
ing understood, it must be perfectly plain, why there is
a difference in the different races of men, as regards the
influence which time, as it is passing, has upon them.
One remains wild; another imitative; another inventive.
The phrenological constitution of each, answers to its
origin, and duration, and position. This brings us to
speak of laws and rules of action, as it respects the dif-
ferent races and different sections of each, as of savage
or civilized society; and to present them in the line of
electric action and reaction.
We do well here to observe; that in order to a full and
clear conviction of the truth, it is necessary that we
recollect that the brain is composed of a variety of dis-
tinct organs; each answering as the centre of action to
some one propensity, faculty, sentiment or affection; that
these are distinct formations; and, although determinate,
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 93
as to place and position ; are, nevertheless, as much under
an active, electric influence, and all dP-pendent on one
common centre the sensorium, as are the bodies composing
our planetary system. This is confirmed in the light of
the electric philosophy, and is so accredited and taught
by the learned societies of Europe. The brain is di-
vided into distinct sections as the region ofphysical, social,
religious instincts; of reasoning, perceptive and reflective
faculties. These organs are upon the principle of action
and reaction, dependent in their size, position, and con-
vergency or primogenital formation, both in the male and
female; on maternal sympathy during gestation; on the
habits of life, calling, society ; and in short upon every
thing as it becomes more or less the centre of perception,
reflection, action. We need not illustrate, by presenting
a variety of actual or supposable cases. Now to bring
one raoo directly under the laws of another, or one por-
tion of the same race in a savage or semi-savage state,
under those of another portion, is to hasten together ex-
tremes in electric formation, and a reaction is sure to
take place; though perhaps a benefit to the whole, yet
inevitably destructive to the inferior order in the line of
race or of civilization. This is confirmed in the face of
all history, experience and observation. The less, the in-
ferior is overcome, scattered, destroyed by the superior.
We have only to open our eyes to see it; to reflect, to
know, that it must be so. Thus savage tribes have ever
passed away ; and now the different races are melting before
th'e electric energy of the Circassian. The law, the rule
of action, for the more civilized, is not for the less. The
energy, moral and intellectual, of the former, is too strong
for the latter. Hence the violent opposition, enmities,
desperation, cruelty, destruction, which follow, when
either, through physical force, secure the supremacy.
The same is evident in regard to government. If it
be true in reference to a rule of action, it is still more so,
when made in reference to a system of rules, a regularly,
densed plan, and appropriate functionaries to carry it in-
to execution, embracing a country, and sometimes almost
. 8
oioitized byGoogle
94 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
a contin('nt. They are points of electric formation which
are to each absolutely appulsive. Violence may subdue1
policy circumvent, fear compel ; but there is no heart•
' felt union, oneness. The dominions of a conquerer are
heterogeneous masses, soon to perish in sections, or be-
come self-scattered to the winds of heaven. Hence eo~
spiracies, rebellions, insurrections, revolutions, slaughter.
Not less evident is it, that one religion cannot in any
country, over any race or people, be made sudden!y to super•
sede another. It can be effected only by the sword, and
the lapse of ages. The first is ever the advanced guard.
Witness the whole history of man. See the Pagan, the
Christian, the Catholic, the Mahometan, the Perseic and
the Jewish. Their religious faith is the first for which
men will rally, and the last for which they will contend.
Whether a true or false religion it matters not; the elec-
tric esergies of mind is in them so far as possible cen-
tred, and in its might they contend.
But we need not dwell on the subject. We have pre-
sented the formation of action in science and motive, and
the wise can carry it but in all its bearings upon the in•
terests of individuals, tribes, kinJ(doms, and the world.
They will see much to cause them to reflect, consider,
pause. Thus the moral world is spread before us, and
under the same laws of action, assumes all the certainty,
permanency, and expansion of the material universe.
CHAPTER XI.
DIFFERENT LANGUAGES, RELIGIONS-RESPONSIBILITY,
FREE AGENCY.
It is as evident to any one acquainted with the history
of man, that there are as distinct languages, as there are
races. It is in vain to trace all to one common orig•
inal, as the distinct races to one single pair. In the
attempt, we are met by a thousand facts directly op~
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRI\:ITY.
posite, repugnant, invincible; and are sustained by on-
ly those common incidences, which, in all formations,
octcessarily exist. Hearing, sound, and imitation of that
aound, are at the foundation of all, and every lan-
guage; hen~ there must be, in certain words adapted
to sound, similarity. But, by language, we mean those
radically distinct. Those, which in simple and compound
words, present a pleonasm in themselves-something
which lies below and beyond all that has been effected by
conquest, intercourse, science, fasl&ion ; and that, which,
finally, did we understand all other lauguages on earth,
could be learned only as arbitrary signs; we being com-
pelled to determine the meaning, by the order ofreason.
We thus, in the different languages of Europe, trace in
those very languages, the march of conquest and cil·iliza-
tion. We separate all that is Greek. Latin, and come to
the Gaelic--or of any of the modern langunges, and come
to the I.atin. Now it is a fact, that when we adopt this
rule of action, that language which is the original, if
known, must be of this character, and have this specific
difference. But the Hebrew, while it has the evidences
of an original language, has not the specific difference
which makes it the original of all languages. The Cop-
tic is the only one resting upon it. The Arabic; the
Sanscrit and Panscrit; the Chinese and Japanese, have
the evidence of independent originality; and if. then• be
an original to them, it must be found in the Japanese
alone. The Japanese can learn the Chinese, but the
Chinese with the greatest difficulty, and never to perfec-
tion, the Japanese. In carrying out the science of lan-
guage in the light of the electric philosophy, we see tl.e
operation of the same determinate laws in action and re-
action, which. are seen in the formation of organic and
inorganic matter as it progresses onward to perfec~ion, in
form, life, existence. Every word is au effect, and the
language itself the creation of the individuals which have
formed it. Words become softened, assume a more fin-
ished form, become flexible to different acceptions, and
in some instances, are radically changed. The language
oioitized byGoogle
96 ANIMAL ELEt-"'l'RJCJTY.
assumes, at the same time, in all the:: cucumstances of
form, sound, ease, copiousness, different phases as it is
passing on in the currency of life and thought; business
and enjoyment. If we take the English, in specimens
presented by our great lf'xicographers of different centu-
ries, we mark a most striking ami surprising change.
And we have in this, in the light of its own history, the
history and philosophy of all. We have here in these,
high laws of electric action, certainty taking the place
of doubt; and science, seated on the throne of theory and
speculation
From the languages of the earth, we turn naturally to
its religions; and at once infer, that they are as essential-
ly different in their formation, as are the races of man-
kind, or the languages of the world. Some must, in the
order of reason and nature, become primary ; and some,
secondary ; one, perfectly simple; while all the rest are
compound. The primary religions must have that, which,
in its origin, makes them specific. Not sects, denomina-
' tions-religions springing out of moral and spiritual pu-
rifications; stamped by tenets, forms, and tbe names of
zealous reformers; but religions originated from new
physical changes in nature, or a new teaching of man.
These will make the specific difference required. Thus,
in the Perseic, or fire worship, we have the object of wor-
ship in fire ; and in the indf'structable remnant of the
once splendid religion, an evidence that a fiery deluge
gave it its origin. In the Jewish, the teachings of an in-
dividual, who insisted on the worship of a one God, to
the rejection of idols; and with -the offerings of sacrifices.
In the Christian, the teaching of a filial worship, and self·
sacrificial offering once for all; the same as the Hin-
doo, from which it originated. In the Mahometan, a
rejection of all sacrifice, and-the concentration of all
prophets in self. In the Mormon, (if it become est:tb·
lished,) the' concentration of all gifts, graces and rev-
elation, in a new dispensation. Thus, we must have the
starting point-a centre of-action, from which the for.
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 97
mation is commenced, and by \\hich it is perfected.
They are effects from definite causes ; and causes, too,
as the result provea, adequate to produce the effect.
There must be a foundation, broad, deep and solid enough
to support the edifice. When this is not the case, the
thing which is attempted to be effected, and which is con-
secrated as a religion, peri11hes. This has been the case
in all ecclesiastical schism. It will be the same with the
Catholic and Protestant. When the necesity of protest-
ing, shall have passed away in the light of science and
savor of piety, the schism will be healed in their mutual
coalescency. It will be the same with the Greek and Ro-
man church. But with those on the foundation specified, this
cannot be. The Perses, the Jews, the Alahommetan, the
Christian and the Mormon, have to exist, or be destroyed
by the sword ; because the primary articles of faith, the
cause, origin, the centre is there. Salvation from, and
purification by fire, in connection with eternal life; an
entire change from idolatry to the worship of a one God,
with animal sacrifices and a promised deliverer; an eo-
tire change of animal sacrifices, in the once off~ring up
in incarnate deity of one self-consecrating sacrifice:--one
divine filiation once for all; in the concentration of all
polytheisms to a one God, and all prophets and prophecies
to a one prophecy and prophet; a union of all gifts, gra-
ces, rights, in a one prophet and ·people, on a new bible,
or revelation. Such being the facts, the inevitable con-
clusion follows, that these must be permanent, because
they are special formations, lying deep in the constitution
of man, and of the immutable laws that govern the uni-
verse. Races must be changed, names blotted out, the
primogenital and habitual electric formations of ages de-
stroyed, in order to effect it. Other religions and faiths
are, in the same proportion, indestructible. All this,
which is true in theory, is found demonstrable in fact and
experience. The world's history confirms it. The Per-
ses, the Jews, the Christians, the Mahometans, have
withstood all instruction, motive, violence. Different
sects have resisted unto blood-persecuted and persecut-
e•
oioitized byGoogle
99 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
ing. The viol~>nce of the sword can alone destroy. Now,
how evident is it, in the light of the electric science, that
all the good that can be effected, must regard the world,
and not the people of such a religion. They may be
wasted away-not converted. Sects and denominations
amalgamate for a period, again to originate and flourish.
These changes are as perm:ment and periodical as those
of inorganic, or vegetable and animal organic existence.
The inquiry, in the light of this high science, on what
rests t•esponsibility-the power and obligation to ariswer
righteously, arises before us; and its answer is direct-to
act according toour natural and acquired constitution, with
an intention to do good, and not evil. This embraces the
whole subject and ground of inquiry. The intelligent
and benevolent can carry out the argument.
A second inquiry, not less important, is, on what de-
pends free agency 7 And the answer is not less direct.
It is, simply, the act of choice; accompanying and orig-
inating every self-determinate action. It can no more be
separate from organia animal existence, than the electric
circulation, which is in worlds, or in plants, or the parts
of plants. It may be said to be, as it regards·determinate
action, the focal point. We first choose, and then will,
to act. Free agency, therefore, rests on an immovable
and indestructible basis. Argument, either for, or against
it, is equally useless.
CHAPTER XII.
FUTURE ORGANIC EXISTENCE IN liiAN, AFTER DEATH.
The subject upon which we now enter, is of the high·
est possible interest. It is evident that it can be estab-
lished only on the ground of science. It is, moreover,
manifest, that, since the electric lies at the foundation of
all other science, it can be demonstrably pro-red in the
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 99
light of no other. Arguments drawn from analogy;
those drawn from the testimony of others, when that tes-
timony is met by what appears an absolute impossibility
-as contrary to what is, or can be; and especially that
which rests on tradition, and a persuasive hope and faith
-and, still more, on an internal feeling that it is so; are
altogether short of the subject, and fail in a ration,ill con-
viction.
We must, then, seek more solid ground. To do this,
we have recourse to the highest science of the day; but
one which, though demonstrably true, is, as yet, but par
tially received by the scientific world. We mean animal
electricity. We shall prove, independent of all that has
been done, that it must be necessarily true.
We take the position, that the highest portion of organ-
ic animal existence must have the most delicate, intimate,
perfect and efficient connection with the electric fluid it-
self; and on each special modification of its own nature,
in action and reaction. It cannot be otherwise. It
would be contrary to reason, fact, mathematical progres-
sion, and certainty in result. It is in its whole, and all its
particulars, and in all its infinite variety of centres, in
each particular, an electric creation. This being the
case, the action and reaction must not only necessarily
follow; but must, in delicacy, intimacy, efficiency aud cer-
tainty, coincide with the perfection of the parts and of
the whole. This is too self-evident a truth to require argu-
ment. We have thus in the whole, and each p1l[ticular,
the first in efficiency, and the last in result.
Our second position, that this is confirmed in matter of
fact, observation. Beavers, bel!s, ants, are intelligent,
sentimental, operative, only within the sphere of a com-
mon interest. The formation of animal life,- resulting in
animal existence, is, in its commencement in the highest
series, the result of thought, desire, affection, passion,
action, under which there is mutual action; and in each,
in delicacy, intimacy, efficiency, according to the nature
and perfection of each indi\·idual. After life is originated,
the vacuum is filled up by the most fine and perfect elec-
,,giti_e byGoogle
100 .ANIMAL ELECTiliCITY.
tric circulation ; and is, from·the sentiment, passion, af-
fection, alarm, fear, fright, terror, of the mother, often se-
riously and hopelessly disturbed. Jn the performance of
all arts, in the prosecution of all sciences, we acquire
skill, force, certainty, in regard to execution ; all the sen-
ses, all the faculties, all the members, nerves, muscles,
become more vigorous, active, delicate. Individuals have
arisen at every age and period of the world, who have
been called "prodigies." One plays, at a very early age,
the most difficult piece of music, which he had never
heard; and without a single variation or discord will car-
ry out any part assigned him; another, equally young and
uninstructed, returns answer after answer to the most
complex combinations of numbers, before the question
pertaining to each can be written down. The efforts of
the former would have been beyond a Handel ; and that
of the latter infinitely surpassing Newton. There have
taken place, under the influence of mind, some of the
most stupendous effects. In the Salem witchcraft, per·
sons swooned; lay in trances, fits; were spasmodic; had
dislocation of limbs, piercing pains, partial phrenzy of
mind. Now these are facts. They can be accounted
for on no other principle than electric action and reac·
t.ion; in degree, in delicacy, intimate union and energy,
in exact proportion to the perfection of the organic for·
mation. ·
That there is independent vision, without the eyes or
light, is demonstrable, from the fact, that individuals have,
in the midst of darkness, arisen and performed the most
difficult operations in algebraic analysis, in what has been
called somnambulism. They evidently saw. That they saw
without their eyes is evident, because there was no light;
and, because; when in other instances, they have had
light, the axis of the eyes has been seen to remain all the
time fixed and immovable. But if there may he indepen·
dent vision in one instance, there may be in a thousand.
Now since man is the highest in the perfection of organic
existence, it follows, as a necessary consequence, that in
independent vision, he must surpass all inferior animals;
oioitized byGoogle
.ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 101
and not only so, but to the extent of that superior nature.
There must then exist, if it has not as yet been discover-
ed, some way by which he may thus admeasure the sphere
of his pre-eminency. Independent, therefore, of all that
has been said in regard to such discovery, it is demonstra-
bly trutl that such a science must exist.
It does exist, and has been discovered in animal elec-
tricity. It is all understood at once when we affirm that
it consists in a determinate electric influence ; and that
the electric fluid exerted takes possession of the subject,
acting on the nerves, muscles and organs of the lirain,
under the determination of will, sentiment and affection.
That it differs from ordinary electricity only as modified
by the animalized materia through which it has passed:-
and that since a vacuum has been formed in the brain, it
becomes an eye to be directed, and brought in contact
with whatever existing in fact and reality the electrifier
chooses it to be. The body being an elecwic formation,
and the most perfect of all others ; and the electric fluid
filling infinite space infinitely subtle and rapid; time and
distance are blotted out. The past can be seen, because
all has existed in its own light and energy ; the future,
because with deity all is fixed and unchangeable ; all a
necessary part of one stupendous and perfect whole.
This being the case, all mystery is blotted out in reality,
and we enter upon the high discovery and science, in all
the confidence of truth and righteousness.
Now in the teaching of this science, as it regards a fu-
ture existence, there can be no doubt. The future invis-
ible state is seen; individuals recognized ; a vast variety of
higher intellectual beings seen rising, order above order.
It is on this ground, that future existence is to be believed
and demonstrated. It could not be otherwise. It is im-
possible that any form should ever be blotted from exist-
ence, and become unknown to deity ; and it is impos-
sible that any line or point of electric action, or com-
bination of electric formation, however multiplied or
combined, should lie beyond the discriminating ken of
that point of high organic existence, to which deity wills
oioitized byGoogle
102 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
it to be seen. The question is simply; is it so 1-ifso,
he wills it. We are then to see to what extent this high
science may be carried; and from experiment, how far in
any particular modification or individual. Thus the de-
termination of the fact, the instrumentality and result,
are all distinct questions. The fact is all, and the rest a
sequency in correlative operation. It is on this fact now
known, that we rest our faith in regard to the future
existence of man in the invisible world. It is not our
business here to exhibit the various confirmations made
by men high in professional life, and ofthousands of un-
doubted piety ; nor is it to give in this place, instructions
in regard to the science ; but simply to state the fact that
the discovery has been made ; that the future and past can
be seen ; and mind act on mind, with secret and irresisti-
ble power.
We may now bring in analogy, and the argument is
conclusive. The Ay deposits the egg in the cabbage
plant; and from electric action, excited by the matter
composing the plant, the worm is evolved-the worm an
animal formation, from the materia he has eaten of the
sameplant, and the modification that he has assumed in the
electric action of his organism as a worm ; spins his aerial
palace, which, when finished, excluding the atmospheric
air, prepares an electric vacuum, in which his existence
as a worm is destroyed; but life is left to revive under a
new energetic impulse, and to become evolved in a gor-
geous butterfly. The fly may have come from the water,.
or the leaf of some tree; a fact which remains as yet to
be established, but the worm did come from the cllh-
bage plant, llnd the butterfly from the chrysalis of the
worm. Here a leaf, the air, an aerial castle, are the line
of progressive life in changed progressive animal exist-
ence.
The passing of life in man from a body into the air in
electric formation, so that there is in the same life renew-
ed existence, to us invisible; is not greater nor of any
harder faith or difficulty in science, the principle being
discovered, than that of a worm to a gorgeous butterfly.
igitize1byGoogle
ANIMA~ ELECTiliCITY. 103
Things are too sinal! to be seen, except by excited elE'C•
tric action on; the eye ; they are too subtle to be seen,
except by excited electric action on the brain. Each are
exerted according to the determinate laws of electric for-
mation. A new modification o( matter is created, and
throughout universal nature it is sent forth in its semi-ce-
lestial operation. Hence the certainty of future existence,
and hence responsibility, since every secondary formation,
in its existence, depends on all the lines of action and
reaction which immediately precede. It is so seen in
man. It is so exerted on his electric formation.
CHAPTER XII.
FOOD AND MEDICINE.
It requires but a moment's reflection to discover that
the electric formations of vegetable life and existence;
of animal life and existence, al! it regards food, must have
a perfect concomitancy and congruity. Each must be
nourished by its correlative. As these formations become
more perfect, so also will their nourishment become more
pure. The laws of action and reaction in eliptic motion
and electric formation remain unchanged. It is so. A
thousand facts testify to its truth. Each animal has its
element, sphere and food. 'fhe earth-worm lives on hu-
mus and water, while the humming-bird lives on the
honey of flowers. One species of wasps lives on spiders ;
another on flowers. One kind of fish lives on another,
and one kind of carniverous beasts on another. What is
food to one is poison to another ; and simply because of
a congruity between the two. There must be neither a
neutrality nor an extreme. Man being the highest for-
mation, has, and by art accommodates, a vast variety to
his organic formation. Still he can convert to food
neither wood, earth, or stone.
It is the same in regard to medicine. As he mounts
oioitized byGoogle
104 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
upward, and the purity of his food increases, so also
should that whioh, as medicine, he employs. It would be
absurd to send him down to metals or minerals, however
prepared, since, received into his system, they are too excit-
ant or paralyzing, and liable to be converted back into a
crude and solid formation, even while circulating in the
most delicate and solid pa~ts of his body. This is known
from fact, observation and experiment. This medicine
should be of the vegetable, and of the animal electric.
This coincides with his organic constitution ; and it is
found, on the outgoings of the immutable laws of electric
action and reaction, ever to hold good. For bleeding, su-
dorification must be substituted; and for blistering, friction
and lubrifaction, with an electrified ointment. It is too
late to argue the case. It is now established in the light
of science, experiment and fact. The botanic electric
system is established in nature, and must, in the theory
and practice of medicine, inevitably prevail till it becomes
efficient in science, and universal in operation.
CHAPTER XIV.
PARTURil'ION-MIDWIFERY.
We shall insert in this volume a chapter on parturi-
tion, in connection with the means in medicine, and in-
strumentality which ought to be used in relieving nature,
whenever from any causality she may become aberrant or
inefficient to performance required. That such aberran-
ces and inefficiences do exist, is matter of serious reality.
It will be remembered that the mother is the electric
pleonasm to the embryo, or life in its progress on to ani-
mal formation and animal existence; and that it is an
electric vacuum, which the animal electric circulation is,
immediately after conception on to its birth, continually
filling up. This is the line of cause and effect, action
and reaction, continually resisted and accelerated by the
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 105
vessels of reception and the centres formed in the new or-
ganic formation itself. It is, however, perfected at the
full period of gestation. Changes in the electric state of
the atmosphere, or in the health or sentiment of the moth·
er, or the peculiar energy of the formation itself, may re-
iard or hasten it a few days. When the pl~onasm is near-
ly filled, in consequence of an arresting of some portion
of the various kinds of electric formations, which are
carried and returned through the material system in its
connection with this vacuum, faintness and pains (result-
ing from spasms) are felt. The electric energy restored, tho
the pains cease; if not, the period of parturition has arriv-
ed: As the embryodescends, sincethe regular impartation
which supports lite is disturbed, it makes an extra demand ·
upon the generic organs of the mother. Hence contraction
and relaxation; pain and rest, follow in the line of electric
action and reaction, as cause and effect, antecedent and
consequent. They are all nec~ssary. When the infant
has verged into its new element of animal existence, it is
by the law of electric demand, compelled to receive that
· which continues life through the air, as a medium and the
food required. The deficiency causes spasm; the spasm
pain ; the united action of which results in opening the
mouth, the inhaling air, and consequent crying of the
child. So soon as the antagonistic forces become adjust-
ed, rest and sleep follow. The stomach, as an electric
centre, now begins to act, and all the organs prepared
for digestion are put in play. The mouth contracts and
opens ; the breast is applied, and the materia received for
its electric energy, to change to a formation, which shall
be prepared for the supplying the materia in building up
the body, in the universal electric circulation. We now
insist on the truth of a number of almost self-evident
propositions.
The pleonasm which can sustain nll·the demands ofsup-
ply and abduction, till the full period of full digestion, can,
with ordinary means, complete parturition, except in ex-
treme cases. What holds good in every thing else should
in the present instance. Whatever is calculated to disturb
9
oioitized byGoogle
106 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY•
. the laws ofelectric action, near the time ofpartuition, must
be evidently injurious, and result in difficulty, pain and
danger. These must be prematurely, and in all the line of
electric vacuums and pleonasms, derangement takes plaee•
. It is found true not only in reason, but also fact. Hence
bleeding, by its reactive influence, is injurious, hastening
or retarding; and leaving the system destitute of energy
to sustain labor--especially, still more, in the midst of
parturition-and not less after it is effected. Nature re-
quires all her life-giving power. The blood being the elec-
tric channel; to disturb it is to cut off life; to do it in the
time of parturition is instantly to arrest the work ; to do it
after is to close up the lacteal system, and leave the whole
formation clogged and loaded with that which should be
turned to food for the support of the child.
Since the hand is of a different electric energy, it is
evident that it ought never, except in the greatest danger,
to be inserted, and then, after having discharged its office,
to be instantly removed. As \Ve are sentimental and re-
ligious beings, every expenditure should be prevented in
the misgiving of a cheerful hope, and every assistance
imparted. All violence in voiee or muscular action
should be avoided. It is an involuntary act, through elec-
tric action and reaction, on the mother and the child ; and
all the energies of nature are required, at least none ought
to be uselessly expended.
Such is the teaching of electric science on this impor-
tant subject; and what is more, till that is received, it is
the language of experiment and fact. We have thus ef-
fected our task, and presented from the unity of matter
its most perfect formation in the microcosm man, and in
his individual egress, as a beautiful planet in a cloudless
sky. We have all along followed the operation of the
same laws of electric action and reaction, and have struck
out its strong and determinate lines in motion, formation,
life, existence, death ; perpetuated life and repeated exist-
ence after death. We have accounted for the eliptic and
diurnal motion of worlds and systems; elucidated and
determined the doctrine of the tides; thrown light on the
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 107
geologic history of the globe ; settled the question in re-
gard to instinct and reason ; confirmed the existence of
different races as the remains of old economies ; pointed
out the ori~in of languages and laws; illustrated the ef-
fects of such institutions as are the result of high degrees
of civilization, or of a higher race when forced upon the
inferior; dwelt upon responsibility, free agency, and prE!-
sented a firm foundation for our belief in high perpetuated
existence, ·- after the present period shall have passed.
We leave the whole in the hands of truth before the
world. Our effort is here safe, and our labor wiJJ not be
in vain.
CHAPTER XV.
INSTRUCTION IN REGARD TO ELECTRIC OPERATION ON
A SUBJECT.
Having selected one who, from phrenological develop-
ment, shall evidently in activity of mind, flow of language,
soundness of judgment, and benevolence of disposition,
be of use after be has become an electric centre, retire
alone where there is none to disturb, and taking the
thumbs in the hands, compose the mind and countenance,
and in fixednessofpurpose and benevolence of feeling, fast-
en the eyes steadily on those of the subject-continue till
he close them ofhis own accord, all the time willing that he
sleep. This suspends the inflowing of the electric fluid
through the eyes, and the sending it fi)rth in determinate
volition through the limbs. The brain commences becom-
ing a more perfect vacuum. Lay the palms of the hands a
minute on the shoulders, touching as nearly as you can the
region of the sUbclavian arteries, wiUing steadily the same.
This throws the electric modification of your own body,
itlto the heart blood of the subject. Place them the same
oioitized byGoogle
103 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY,
time on the head and face-this deposits the same on the
head anll face, and excludes exterior influence. Put them
gently over the body, passing down the limbs, and at each
pass throw off from the fingers and with the palms turned
towuds the subject, continue to operate on different mem-.
hers and organs in determinate action and volition, as the
case, experience, judgment, skill, feeling dictate. Each
subject may require a more or le~s varie•l manipulation,
and volition, and each will be affected accordrng to his
peculiar constitution, and the circumstances of the case.
After entire possession, and a perfect knowledge and con-
fidence in the subject, he may then be used in any exhibi-
tion or work of benevolence. With an able electrifier,
and highly perfected clairvoyant, there is no limit as yet
discovered either in regard to time, space, the past or
future, publicity or profound inscrutibility; except what
is limited by the radical constitution of distinct classes
of beings. The butterfly can know nothing of the rea-
soninO", language, feeling of the worm ; nor the worm the
butte~fly; nor can we converse with horses, nor of those
of the inhabitants of the invisible world, who are not of
our order of existence in the line of life; that is, electric
formation in perpetuity. They must be intimately, not in
extremes, connected with man. The dog can know more
of his master, than the master of him. We advance in
an ascending series. The past becomes lost in the per-
fection and brightness of the future.
In the line of operation, all our gestures should be elip-
tic or direct ; that is, in sections of an elipse or the parts
of a triangle, the former coinciding, as near as. possible,
with the figure of which the organ is the focus, and the
line the vector radius, into and out from the centre.
Practice and the electric circulation will make perfect.
DIFFERENT THEORIES-ELECTRIC EFFECTS.
Having carried out our system, it is very hatural to ask,
why there should be so many theories 1 One believes
that an " equilibrium" is· the grand law of nature; and
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 1C9
another that a neuraura is the medium of action ; and
another that "no medium is· necessary, any more than
for thought to act; or, if it is, sympathy is the medium
and Pathetism the agency." Now if we bring these men
to a phreno-electric examination, we shall see at once that
they are the ones that have their origin in their own in-
dividual formation and self-dependent volition, and design,
so that their differing and entire reversion of the primary
laws of nature, in substituting an effect for a cause, and
a nothingness for a material causality, is evidence of the
truth of our system.
Dr. Buchanan says •' that a nervous fluid is eliminated
from the operator into the subject; and this fluid, when
the finger is applied to the cranium of the latter, excites
the mental organ located in the place touched by the op-
erator-hence Neurology is the name of the science."
Mr. Sunderland says, "I find it equally easy to cause
patients to excite their own mental orgims-1 ha\'e a
thousand times produced these phenomena without a con-
tact, and without willing, consequently without any fluid;
therefme there is no electric effect, nor any medium."
Doctors will disagree. Let them ; it is a natural con-
sequence. But what says the electric science 7 Why,
that an equilibrium is no law, but that the lines in which
disturbing forces ever operate are the laws, and those of
eliptic motion in action; the fundamental laws which gov-
ern the universe, and any formation and amount of mind
or matter-thus; if there be a nervous fluid it is a modifi-
cation of matter ; and that the electric fluid is the materi-
al causality-that in action and reaction there must ever
be a medium, according to the nature of the formation ;
that, as regards the person, general or specific effects may
in some instances be produced without will or contact, be-
cause of the electric condition of each; and because there
is ever action and reaction. Distance is nothing; oppos-
ing obstacles are nothing; our ignorance how it can be, is
nothing-the question alone is, is it so 1 We can see a
star-it is an electric effect; we pass to it, and are in it-
it is an intellectual electric effect; that is, we pervade; penr
9•
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
etrate survey, with the brain as a more perfect eye-as the
whole being, the object. We penetrate the past-the
whole circle of electric centres and formation arf' in sight,
"hearing, emotion, through the electric fluid, which forms
them at once before us; we pass onward to the future; the
centres, forms, emotions, to be formed by au unchanging
being, by this as the material causality, in plan and pur-
pose, are open before us. There are limits; but they have
yet to be discovered in science-and his purpo&es in the
exerted energy of the being in his present individual ex-
istt'nce, and future perpetuated existence; in the line of
life, intelligence and perfection.
We now dismiss the subject, leaving the amateur~ of
different arts and sciences, to carry it out in their respec-
tive departments. It is high time that a foundation
should be laid-not in theory, but system; and that
which is founded on the primary laws of nature must, of
necessity, be the alone true and permanent one.
ExPERIMENTs. 1. Throw the fluid in watf'r, giving
it determinate action, as to design, effect; and though
kept for months, and the subject be ignorant of it, it will
effect the object. The electric formation is adjusted to
the organic formation.
2. Place the person before you, lying on a bench
with stiffened muscles, breathe forcibly over him and lift,
and he is lighter according to his electric condition, and
the determinate electric energy of yourself at the time.
The electric fluid makes specifically light, when imparted
in excess; and taken from the air immediately above him,
leaves a vacuum.
3. Extend the arms of the subject, and operate on the
muscles as required, and spasms and apparent vast mus-
cular energy is produced. The electric fluid deranged
as a pleonasm, or a vacuum, produces spasms, or relaxa·
tion; this added to the previous principle, gives the re·
suit.
4. In a clean vial, put a quantity of pure water; in-
sert the fore finger, and invert the vial, and thousands of
exceedingly small bubbles will be seen to ascend; exe~t
igitize1byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. tll
the will, and this will on the subject produce the specific
effect. The escape of the fluid is seen, as well as recog·
nized in its efficiency.
5. Electrify a dollar; and the individual who is the
subject, meets a repulsive, paralizing resistance.
6. Place the subject before you; each stiffening the
muscles, and bracing and exerting all your energy ~ with
the action suspend the will on either side, and you are
resistless, or non-resistless as the case may be.
7. Electrify a quantity of fluid, as a specific for your-
self; change your will and electrify it for another; and
there is nothing definite, either in mind or matter, taste
or sentiment, feeling or affection. The electri<·· modifica-
tions are heterogeneous.
8. Write an epistle, having electrified the ink and pa-
per beforehand ; and, afterwards, placing the letter before
you, as the person, electrify the letter, willing certain spe·
cific effects; and they will, according to the electric con·
stitution of the individual, be experienced, when it is read.
The ink and paper form the contact.
D. Take any subject, whose ear bas become highly an
electric vacuum, and he can hear the lowest audible whis-
per, though made at a mile distant; if it has never been
thus affected, but the eye has, he will in any specified
battle, see all that can be seen; but hear nothing. The
air in one case, and the light in the other, is the medium;
and the electric fluid the material causality-one avenue
is, in either case, closed.
lO. Take a person-one who has died of insanity;
and, wh9, in his affection, has bad all his friendships and
enmities revj!rsed; and, on post-mortem examination, on
the very organs and lines of electric action, it is manifest
to the eye, in inflammation and derangement. But the lat-
ter are electric effects; the former was the result of the
same causality.
11. Individuals have expired ~:~nder the extreme of
passion; and these results have been in all their circum-
stances, according to these determinate la.ws, in the case
of each individual.
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
12. Tears relieve the agony of grief; but tears are
an electric formation-and their rapid formation relieves
the organs of the brain-especially ideality.
13. The best swimmer, on coming into an electric
vacuum in water, instandy sinks; relieved, he has had no
spasm, and nothing but the conviction that he was nerve-
less and heavy. The moment a man, who is successfully
buffeting with the waves, ceases to hope, he instantly dis-
appears, and never rises again. Again, a mall may be
powerless as to his limbs-have confidence, and remain
flotant. But these are, evidently, electric effects. '
14. Certain passions, emotions and affections may ex-
ist independent of will, intention; and continue to exist
against will; or, on the reverse, cannot, on volition, be
produced; or, if produced, continued. A complete de-
monstration that a pleonasm, in electric circulation, will
act independent of what is called mind; and that a vac-
uum, in the same circulation, in the extreme, cannot be
filled. Each case, therefore, is from electric circulation,
as the well known and determinate material causality.
15. Let the person, who has become an almost elec-
tric centre, receive the permission from the electrifier, to
put himself to sleep, or to travel, limiting a certain time;
and in exerting the power, let the clairvoyant limit himself
to intermediate points, and the intermediate points of ces-
sation; and the final one will take place to a single moment.
But that which thus admeasures time must be a material
causality. We cannot say that it is a God, and we sub-
ject it i but rather that we use this invisible fluid accord-
ing to his fixed and unalterable laws of action and reac-
tion, in the line of its universal existence and operation
in man.
To conclude-from all that I have discovered-(and I
have experimented in practical electricity, since the spring
of 1838-and from that time, in all my communications
to the public, have insisted on the truth of the princi-
ples here established;) I have come to the full and perfect
conviction, that, in animal magnetism, we have simply the
electric fluid acting according to its well known laws on
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. ll3
the human constitution, in action and reaction. In April,
.~.I asked, ''Is this God, or does he permit us to op-
erate through this wonderful element, so as to see, hear,
taste, feel, with the eyes, ears, &c., things past, future,
distant, as though present before us 1" .
In all my communications, I have insisted that " this
was the alone element-the material cause of all causes,
antecedents and consequents."
. This, some gentlemen magnetizers have used ; others,
may have since cometo the same conclusions, who had
never seen the articles I have written on the subject. If
I have laid cl_
aim to this discovery on wrong grouJ!dl!,
then let it return to the one who has the merit of discov-
ering the entire laws of electri,c action and reaction; and
of .establishing the science on those immutable laws of
nature, which can never be reversed. If animal electric-
ity be anything, it is all we make it. •We advance one
step farther in science, and acquire a knowledge in the
operation of causes and effects, antecedents and conse-
quents; by which we can solve a thousand phenomena
and .mysteries which before were apparently forever be-
yond the ken of human investigation. Nay, we acquire.
so far as necessary to be used, a sixth sense, in clairvoy-
ance ; by which we are enabled to penetrate into the re-
cesses of disease, and make visible the secrets of the
heart. \Vhile we regard the effects, so new, so vast, so
wonderful, so myterious, we are astonished; but when
we understand the agency, the way, the why and where-
fore, all astonishment ceases, and the :science rests on the .
same open and solid foundation as all others. It is no
more wpnderful that the animal electric fluid should pen-
etrate the solid opaque adamant, than that the silex and ~
pota5h, of which glass is made, !!hould ,become transpa- ,
rent, and the natural eye should see through the solid
body it has formed.
,,giti_e byGoogle
PATHETISM ..
I have carefully perused this theory of the Rev. Mr.
Sunderland, and find it commended for nothing but that
plausibility which rests upon its entire foundation; and
that is plausibility resulting from smtiment. Take this
away and nothing is left on which a discerning and dis-
criminating mind can rest in the confidence of truth and
righteousness. We have nothing against the gentleman;
we commend also the volume on account of a mass of
facts, and an intimate knowledge and skill, in regard to
the physical and moral· energies of man ; and we are
moreover well aware that the author, depending first on
himself, and then upon the well known laws of electric
action and reaction, which he calls sympathy, can wield a
tremendous power upon an individual or an audience.
He concentrates himself upon the most sympathetic, and
having subdued him, makes him an electric vacuum; and
directing all the present out-going electric energy·of the
audience to him upon whom he Jays his band in the de-
termination of will, fastens it upon this and that indi-
vidual, entirely unknown to him, but not to the all-per-
vading energy of electric action. He thus, instead of
exhausting himself, gains electric efficiency. But this
he contends is merely sympathy, even if it effect and put
to sleep a person two miles distant-and the theory he
ealls Pathetism. A person in the pathetistic state, hears
distinctly the least audible whisper eight or ten rods dis-
tant; a partridge is killed, simply by blows inflicted on the
snake that charmed it; violent opposers are subdued by
the jerks, even while they continue to cursfl ; and yet it
is all sympathy. That is simply, here are definite, deter-
minate, life-destroying effects, without any causality,
igitize1byGoogle
P4TBETISJII. 115
eitlur material or immaterial. Now this is contrary to
all sense and reason. It will not bear a moment's inves-
tigation. It does not require it. Any one, on an atten-
tive examination of the volume, must be persuaded that
its author does not even desire it. He depends on sym•
pathy, not conviction; on feeling, and not proof; on per-
sonal success, and not the advancement of science.
We shall place this theory on its true ground, as pre-
sented to the eye, and as seen in the false reasoning of
its author ; and by false reasoning, we mean, simply, iilog-
ical, inconclusive. We attach no blame, no moral turpi-
tude. If he depend on sympathy, feeling, personal suc-
cess, primarily; and conviction, proof, science, be secon-
dary ; it may either result from his personal constitution,
his habits, or an electric concentration among his phre-
nological organs, which leaves him, both as a rational
creature, and as a christian man, entirely emancipate and
free.
~ A & ~
two extremes; under A we place a series of causalities,
agencies, means. And beneath B, the effects results, and
consequences which followed. We select the cases as
accredited or confirmed by Dr. Sunderland.
1. " Use the term life 88 a
fact "-" is not the result of or·
ganization, but a distinct ele-
ment"-" has identity and per·
petuity."
2. "One of the most m7s·
terious agents of nature, is mmd
through the voice "-" bread
pills are given ' -a snake
charming a bird is killed."
3. " A man believes he is
to be executed "-" a lady
This element, regarded 88 a
fact, resists and evolves caloric;
electrifies iron and animal for-
mations ; and there is no me·
dium of connection, nq electric
fluid, no material causality ;-
that is, here are all these stu-
pendous effects, and nothing
upon which either to act or
rest. If an element, it acts
without any connection.
Effects. Anger, love, joy,
sorrow, fear, hope, &e.-vio-
lent purging-the bird suffers
every blow, and dies at the in·
stant the snake does-no con-
nection.
He dies at the time, and no
violence-drops dead-p8rsJiz.
oioitized byGoogle
116 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY•
. reads a letler "-":a man exerts
.his will."
4. " A cock, a fish, a spider,
a cat, are seen." · ·
es his ltomach, heart, dies. No
COI!ne<;ting li.,k.
One abhors, another trem·
bles, another fears arid another
faints. No material cause.
5. "Operate on the brain," All our experiments are pro·
. and separate· ganglion• by will duced-paralysis, spasm, &c.,
-(this his secret.) . jand yet no tluid-no material
. . .. . causality:-no connecting link.
We come now to his false reasoning.
I. He assumes life to be an element. His whole sys-
tem, therefor~, rests on assumption, and the whole is
·begged. Life is evidently an effect, and depends simply
·upon conditions, whether it exist or not. Every hair
cont~ins at its root a living animal; more points of life,
· or the destruction of them, will depend on the food, cir·
'cumstances oftime, place, climate. Every polywog may
become a frog, an entire new modification of animal ex-
istence ; but it depends on temperature, light, air : if life
be an element, it is evidently changed, and therefore
· not an element which admits of no change. Gold can
never be changed to silver; nor the life of a polywog, if
an element, to the life of a toad-but the latter does take
place, and under known agencies and causalities adequate
to produce the effect Life,.therefore, is not an element,
but the effect of laws intimately connected with the alone
element which exists, and which determines both mind
and matter in their various modifications.
2. He assumes mind to be an agent. It is ~imply
the perfection of organic matter. It is as much in animals
as men, but not as diversified, capacious, educated ; and
instinct and reason are one and the same, except as that
we refer the former to animals, and the latter to mankind.
. The mind energizes or paralizes by the will, and yet
there is no connecting link ; and yet tn pathetize, direc-
tions are given to pass the hand over the arm some five
minutes, and it can be known whether the subject is
pathetistic or not, and yet the will must be determined----:-
and yet because he can effect it without touch, and the
person himself ean do it, there is no fluid either nervous
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 117
or electric. Now where is there in this chain, either in
the premises or conclusion, the least logical fairness or
legitimate conclusion 1 There is none.
3. The nerves are not conductors; therefore there is
no nervous, no electric circulation in pathetizing. But
the nerves are conductors when in a living, moistened
condition; and do conduct nervous energy through elec-
tric contact with inconceivable velocity and resistless
power; and in the living state, the determination of will,
does, in the subject, produce the same determiuate ener-
ergy. Since it is exerted in taking away, as well as in
bestowing; and that in determinate volition, and as ex-
erted in most cases, action; there is a paralizing, relaxing
effect produced, as well as a contratile spasmodic.
4. In all the arguments in which we expect a direct-
ly coming to the point, there is absolute evasion; whether
real or intended, we do not decide. Take the following.
"Each of the cerebral organs may be excited, as we
know, through the external senses; but excitements pro-
duced in this way, do not differ from those produced by
pathetism; and hence I infer that the immediate agency
is the same. If there is no fluid communicated or re-
ceived into the nervous system of the patient, when his
caution is excited by a mere sound ; how does it appear
to be a fluid, when I excite that organ by merely placing
my finger upon it?" Are the senses agents? They are
simpIy sources of perception. Are the senses the same
as himself1 Doe11 not sound as an electric effect, carry
conviction by sending the electric fluid, elicited by per-
cussion, to the very organ-caution to vitativeness; or
as the case may be 7 Does he put his finger on an organ
without design, will, determination 7 What evasion !
Again. For if it should be admitted that a fluid is actu-
ally received by the patient from the operator without the
laws of pathetism, we could not tell why it should excite
orle organ any more than another. If it should be said
that the fluid passes from the cerebral organs of the ope-
rator into the same organs in the brain of the subject, be-
cause organs effect their like ; I answer, this is by no
10
oioitized byGoogle
ll8 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
means clear, for we have seen above, that one organ in
the same head, excites others, whose functions are entire-
ly different. Why could we not te117 It would, of
course, effect that upon which it was exerted; and that,
either directly or inversely, according to the then condi-
tion of the subject, and the energy of the operator. That
different organs should effect different organs, is, evident-
ly, a necessary consequence; and as much so, as that dif-
ferent muscles should effect through a nerve, one or a
dozen, as the case may be. In the electric science, all
is plain. There is electric, eliptic motion from others
to my brain, and from mine to the clairvoyant. The elec-
trified becomes frantic-the audience fear, I fear for
them, and he fears for himself through me. The mo-
ment I perceive his fear, I take courage, for there is no
more danger-exert will, and reduce him to quietude, and
then rationality. This, those who learned from self, and
not from others, in magnetism, &c., do well know.
Why is it 1 Electric action and reaction in eliptic circu-
lation, exists.
The expression-" organs effect their like," is only
in part, true ; they effect action and reaction, and are
effected by others of a different character, directly
and inversely. They act and react. Making, as is
fact, the electric fluid, the alone element-·all God creat-
ed ; and all forms, figures, existences of a material na-
ture, as evidences of his wisdom, power and goodness;
and the actings and reactings of these upon each other,
through its circulation, producing all formations and
their ultimate decomposition; and we have a system
sustained by observation, proof, demonstration. As it
passes from the whole person-from the fingers or eyes by
the determinate action of one person on another; 01; on.
any particular limb or organ, it acts as a connecting link;
and is, at the same time, darted from organ to organ ; or
if in a continuous or indefinite circuit, with an energy
adequate to produce the effect. Its velocity-the fact
that it partakes of the same nature as the being who ejects
it, and of the same organ as that from which it is drawn,
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 119
are sufficient to convince us of the congruity between
the agency, instrumentality, cause and effect. On no
other principle can we find a full and satisfactory solu-
.tion. We must have the means. There must be a ma-
terial causality. Perfect and stupendous results must be
brought about by regularly acting, determinate causali-
ties. If the charmed bird feels every blow inflicted on the
snake, there has been formed a strong, and, for the time,
an indissoluble bond. This is the electric circulation
in eliptic motion, swift, strong, indestructible. If an au-
dible whisper is heard eight or ten rods, this conveys it to
the brain, which has been made an electric vacuum and
centre. If we operate at a distance ; and, as I have fre-
quently done, throw my person before another, and cause
it to remain in a clear and silvery light, and in all per-
sonal properties and attributes-and that too for days,
whether I myself were engaged in this or that, is because
there has not only been, but is still, an electric conpec-
tion. The thing is plain; and we speak of it with all
the certainty and rationality of any other operation or law
of nature.
If there were a "neuraura "-a nervous fluid-still
something must direct, sustain, convey, return. This
something would be the electric fluid. But we re-
ceive impressions, sensations, perceptions of things en-
tirely inimical; and of others destitute of life. Whence
sympathy ! whence a nervous communication !
The doctrine of "equilibrium, as the primary law of
nature," is absurd; because a law cannot exist, unless there
are antagonistic principles; and the lines which are in-
variably and imperiously ascribed to these, will require a
plurality of laws. They exist in the very nature of the
things themselves. This is eliptic motion in action and
reaction. This results in perfection or imperfection, ac-
cording to the nature of the case; partial decay, (:wd as
to the particular form or modification,) entire destruction.
It is no more the part of reason to 8peak of the law of
equilibrium, than it would be to contend for the law of
life. Causes an«l effects are not the law; but those
oioitized byGoogle
120 .ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
rules which make causes and effects absolutely certain
and assignable.
It is, however, useless to argue the case any farther
than to sQstain our position, and the cause of truth in a
general manner. We shall have thousands of theories,
until the world has settled down under the fullness ofcon-
viction; and it is the only authority we know in science,
or to which mind can bow. This is becoming the case
with chemistry, as it has been with mathematics; the
same with geology as chemistry; and the same with phre-
nology as with geology, or even anatomy itself. We re-
ject all theory and authority, and de10and proof, deiiJon-
stration-palpability in fact and argument. We can no
longer believe in witchcraft. There must be science;
and that, in the reality of known material causalities iu
antecedents and consequents.
PHENOMENA EXPLAINED.
THE SALE~t WITCHCRAFT. The children first affected
were, in consequence of their original constitution, and
also their habits of life, electric vacuums. A woman of
strong and concentrated feeling, looks upon them; and,
perhaps, in benevolence, touches them. They become
affected-faint, fall. They are disturbed by the minds of
others-especially parents, and have fits. It is noised
abroad-conversed about; and as witcht'raft is believed,
the old woman suspected and hated. This hate and fear
in the congenious fluid, centres in the mind of the children.
The old woman is accused; and, in fear of criminality
and loss of lite, is dragged before the children. The
conflict is now more fierce and terrible than before.
They shriek-are convulsed; and lie, finally, as in a dy-
ing state. The experiment is made again and again;
till, finally, ignorant of the laws of electric action, they
proclaim, try, condemn and punish her for witchcraft.
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 121
Others are suspected; and trial after trial, and execution
after execution, follow. The pious, overwhelmed by the
conviction and sentiments of others, poured into the or-
gans of the brain, confess their guilt; and die, penitent
and believing. The impenitent, in fear, terror, execra-
tion, horror and despair. Thus, as centres were formed,
the work spread; till twenty-seven were executed, and
one hundred and twenty-six confined in prison. Each
one now began to fear for himself;- and as no more elec-
tric formations take place, all is dis!lipated. There was
no witch, no god, no devil there; but barely the ignorant
abuse of the certain benevolent and determinate laws of
physical and moral action,
2. DnEAMs-Are imperfect connection with the real-
ities of the past, present or future; varied according to
the constitution, life, habits, relationship and expectations
of the subject. Hence they appear true and false ; may
be, nothing but confusion and variety ; or the most per-
fect order and re-elation of a past transaction or future
reality.
3. A vessel, in the Indian Ocean, passes out of a
rough sea into a perfectly smooth one; yet sails without
any wake, at the rate of five miles and a half during
three hours; and then comes suddenly into a rough sea;
all the time, there is a perfectly inverted cone of a milky\
whitene!!s, of which the eye is the centre, and the sky
the circumference, and the moon and stars entirely ob-
scured. Solution. There has been a sudden escape of
freely circulating electric fluid from beneath the ocean;
and, as the air is a bad conductor, it remains at the sur-
face of the water. Had the escape been caused by a
vacuum above, a tornado or typhon would have followed
with copious rain, and fearful horizontal zigzag lightning;
because condensation must have taken place; and while
the water was formed, the electric fluid could find no re-
gion in the depth, in which to eacape; there being al-
ready a pleonasm beneath it. There would be resistance
between the air and water, and therefore the wind could
not ripple the surface as though it continued to blow.
IO•
oioitized byGoogle
122 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
The vessel would make a rapid demand on this super·
abundance of the electric fluid; and it, in entering the
vessel, would carry along the water in its wake, and
cause it to up-heave all around it at the surface, and there
would therefore be no wake. The eye is the centre of
vision; color, an electric effect; and hence the inverted
cone, and the consequent extinction of the moon and
stars.
4. A snake fascinates a partridge, till it hecomes pow-
erless-it is discovered at the crisis, and every blow in-
flicted on the snake, tortures the bird ; and as the snake
is killed, the bird dies. There is an electric vacuum
made in the brain of the bird, and the electric eliptic cir-
culation permanently formed. Its energy and strength
is demonstrated by the effect. Each blow agitates it in
the bird in the same manner as its pleonasm ; the snake
is affected. When he is crushed, so is the bird.
5. The light of the moon, though concentrated to
three hundred thousand volumes, does not produce any
perceptible effect on a centigrade thermometer. The
moon has been thrown in volcanic evulsion, from the
earth ; and makes her electric demand, almost entirely,
upon it. The light of the sun being deprived of its elec-
tric energy, comes to us entirely destitute of heat. We
will the sun's light to be deprived of the electric fluid, as
we are electrifying the clairvoyant; and the face of the
electrifier assumes the same appearance of the moon. No
electric fluid enters the eye, which becomes with the
brain, an electric vacuum, to be filled according to the
will of the electrifier.
Thus every phenomena in nature can be solved. We
at once perceive, that the science lies at the foundation
of all others; and .is, therefore, of the most transcendent
importance. ·
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICI'l'Y, 123
BEN;EVOLENCE-THE ART OF HAPPINESS.
The word, benevolence, is a contraction of four words,
derived from the Latin. "Bene "-good, or well; "volo"
-I will; '' ne" lest, and "cio "-I call up. It is, no
doubt, a contraction of an interrogatory proposition-
shall I not excite myself to well willing towards you 1
Will you not will me well? The word will, was supersed-
ded by the less definite term, "wish;" and the conse-
quence was, that the same indistinctness in dE>terminate
volition, and feebleness and uncertainty in result, fol-
lowed. The word, malevolence, is the reverse of benev-
olence; "male," ueing evil. God is infinitely good, be-
cause he wills well ; and the devil, infinitely evil or
bad, because he wills evil. The. one, in his nature,
blesses; and the other, in his nature, curses; that
is, here are the two extremes in beings-in rational
intelligences. This brings us down to the very es-
sence and spirit of character, person, contract, action.
Marriage, is the agreement to have, as man and wife.
The form, ceremony, legality, is nothing but the sequen-
cy-the requisitions ofsociety. The man who has prom-
ised to marry a female, or a female the man; is married
to the person. The deed remains eternally and un-
changeably done; and is ever before God; and is, in the
electric science in clairvoyance, seen, as if cut in marble,
or in diamond; and standing in statuary, in the open
sunlight, thrown by Omnipotence, all around; no shadow
-all seen in every point in Omniscience at once, and
forever. If this is severe morality, casuistry, it is God's
teaching, and the teaching of the Christ of Palestine
and of India. If it is severe, it is the severity of eternal
truth, and the unchanging laws of nature in electric ac-
tion.
This also gives at once, the key to the science and art
of being and making happy, or blessed. It rests upon
,,giti_e byGoogle
1~ ANIMAL BLIICTBlCITt'.
the certain, efficient and unchanging laws of nature, as
taught by the electric philosophy. Those who have care-
fully read and digested this work, will understand the fol-
lowing instructions; and those who have the constitution
and will, may acquire the art and skill to exert it in all
the blessedness of truth, righteousness and love ; or in the
accursedness of unrighteousness and hate..::.in all the
blessedness of blessing; or cursedness of cursing.
TnE ART. Concentrate your mind upon the person or
thing; obtain a distinct idea of the blessing or curse;
limit it as distinctly and determinately in regard to its ope-
ration in time, place, person, number; exercise now a full
conviction in the existence and presence of an infinite
God; as we are in a Christian land, to unite both Jewish
and Christian electric energy, call him Jehovah; if among
Mahometans, the God of Mahomet ; the Hindoos, Br.ama;
as universal, not regarding religion, piety, as sectional-
Jehovah, or the infinite, the alone and only God; if your
idea and feeling is more distinct, by saying name, then
say in the name of Jehovah ; if you can concentrate
mind more powerfully by substitution, take a convenient
piece of wood, or a pillow for the person. Now, with a
concentrated mind on the person or thing; a distinct
idea of the blessing or curse; a full conviction of the
presence of the here-of the Jehovah; and a full deter-
mination of will, independent of !tim as willing; but pres-
ent in infinite power to act; and in unchanging law, in
the materiality of things to be used; say, I will that-
here specify the blessing 9r curse, coolly and firmly ; and
then repeat, I will that it come upon him, her, or it-pause
a moment, and in absolute independence and assurance
of certainty, say, I will that it come-in the name of Je-
hovah, let it come !-I will it! We thus escape diver-
sion of thought, which ever divides the mind, and renders
powerless. This, to a pious person, may at first appear
wrong, sinful, blasphemous; but on reflection, it cannot.
It is not in intention to blaspheme, or speak reproachful-
ly ; it is in full conviction of his presence and power; it
is in the use of the means-the electric energy which he
oioitized byGoogle
ANIIIIAL KL'ECTRICITY. I~
puts into our hands ; and we thus operate, because it
is thus alone, that we can operate, in the plentitude _of
our power-in the economy of our being. This is the
teaching of Jesus Christ. The prayer, "Our Father,"
is absolute. When we ask, we receive-we are to come
boldly-" Father, I will." This is praying. Wishes,
mays, ifs, are not; either in fact or result. We are to
will to have it, and believe that we have it, and it is. If
we are to think of relation and condition in the act of
prayer, we effect comparati,·ely nothing. A man may as
well think of rules in grammar, logic, rhetoric, in ar-
gument, as these things in prayer. In both cases, all
these things are known, understood, used. But we are
not arguing the case any farther than to instruct. We
say, so it is; and in experiment, will be found to be.
It is now understood, that in determination of will, we
use the freely circulating electric fluid; and make it
determine, according to the laws of electric action on
things and in persons, clearness of thought; depth, fixed-
ness, fullness of will in determining to do and havE', being
the conditions in us; the laws of electric circulation in
that, limited only by itself in the use of another; or the
special operation of the infinite God, which can be seen
only in the result.
But there are a thousand facilities in using this agency.
We will specify a train, on the principles of mathemati-
cal science, which will answer all the purposes of the
most enlarged and successful operation. It is always un-
derstood that our ability to operate, will be according to
our capacity, skill, energy, and our more or less perfect
contact or union with the person. That the subject be-
come highly susceptible, and the highest, most perfect,
and beautifying effects fi>llow; it will be necessary to
have a full and perfect possession. But parents, husbands,
wives, children, intimate friends, christians, have the op-
portunity of perfect contact and possession. The beloved
disciple lay on the bosom of Christ. It was said of primitive
christians, "behold how these christians love one another."
Martyrs have been sustained by love; the electric energ7
oioitized byGoogle
126 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
imparted so that they have felt no pain. That it is the
same principle and agency is evident, because we pro-
duce the same effect. We induce affection the most in·
tense, and we render the subject insensible to pain.
That it was God's work, is no objection; because he
then worked as he does now, by means. What was witch·
craft, is witchcraft no longer. Having obtained this pos-
session, and it is easily obtained by repeated experiments
in the line of operation prescribed; the individuals in
any family or society, can have the most perfect union in
sentiment, feeling, affection. They can promote each
other's happiness without any expense, by the still, silent
and powerful operation of affectionate volition. If there
were an expenditure in this operation, either of intellecf.t
sentiment or animal spirits; then, indeed, it would be
less desirable to have the art. But, even then, since
there would be so large a good effected, it might be well
to make the sacrifice. But there is no expenditure. The
reservoir from which we draw, is as boundless and infi·
nite as the universe, and as deity itself; and then, the
principle being understood; instead of diminishing the
flow of sentiment, the animal spirits, they increase them.
This will be found in the light of experiment; which is
the best of instructors.
The truth as to fact, may be commended to those who
may not be able to know experimentally; from the con·
sideration that the materia is not only without us; the
agency in high efficiency in another; but from the fact,
that the direction of the attention to the good of another
-the willing his or her happiness, does, in fact, benefit
ourselves, and strengthen the attention, the sentiment or
affection of our own mind, heart and spirit. The elec-
tric circulation brought in play through these organs, in·
vigorates and enlarges the organs themselves; and we
emerge from the low, plodding, selfish, worldly, rnercena·
ry spirit, into a higher and nobler sphere of existence.
This is the whole secret of love, and art of love. So far
as to its nature and operation, it is laid in· our common
constitution as social beings. We do not say rational,
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 127
intellectual ; because love is common to all. The ant,
dove, deer, sheep, &c., associate, 10\·e-evidently perma-
nently, their kind; have their banquetings of affection,
and the tenderest attachment to their young. They re-
flect, reason. That their memory is limited, and that their
affection, as to individuals, terminates, is no more than is
to be expected, and is seen as extensive as their sphere of
aetion requires. It is in the same ratio and limitation.
Man loves longer and more wisely, in some respects; but
he hates longer and more foolishly in others. His love
is as high, bright, pure, as heaven, and triumphs in death;
but his hate is as deep, dark and polluted as hell; and
as intense, firm and unchanging. J.eaving these things
as they are, in lines of etern:tl truth-however the scepti-
cal, the superstitious, or the ignorantly or wilfully foolish,
may contend \Yith each other about them-let us advance
one step further in instruction.
Take the digits, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9; the squares,
cubes and biquadrates, &c., as of 3, 9, 27, 81, 243, 729;
or any number you please. Now make 1 a definite effect.
Say that it ue to excite religious enjoyment. We wish to
make the person religiously happy. We, sincerely, for a
good end, desire it. This is the motive and object; oth·
erwise, it is not blessing in the line of goodness, though
it might be in present enjoyment. We will, as directed,
it come upon the person. If it be general, it remains as
it is; if special, we limit it to the special grace and or-
gan or organs, which are acted upon, when it is in lively
and definite exercise. If special, and it be love, we may
will 4 to hope, in the same degree; 2, to reverence ; 9, to
marvelousness,; 27, to ideality; 243, to faith; and 729,
to full fruition in action and reaction. Call these num-
bers in the place of tens or hundreds or thousands, and
the result is proportionate; unless, indeed, it exceed the
capacity of the individual; it will then be powerless.
This is determined in experiment; thus, I have found 3,
9, 27, 81, overwhelmingly powerful; but 9, 27, 81, 243,
powerless. In other individuals, I have found 27,000,
81,000, 243,000 and 729,000 in the most lively exercise.
oioitized byGoogle
1~9 ANIMAL EI.aC.."TRICITY.
In Rahway, N. Jersey, a middle aged lady wished to
be made as happy as in the moments of her " first love
when she indulged the hope of the gospel." Judging
from her physical and phrenologicical constitution, I sup-
posed her capacity as then filled, to have increased to 9.
I called the ideal the mingled emotion of confidence,
love and joy. The sums then stood, 9, 27, 81, 243.
The ideas were faith and benevolence; benevolence and
sensibility; the heart, fruition. The result was, a com-
plete resting on the bosom of a covenant God in Christ.
I now put 3 in play, willing it to effect in each, the full-
ness of capacity; and from ecstacy, she sank into infant
weakness, smiles and slumber. The effect lasted 45 min-
utes. Complete, perfect happiness. I imparted strength,
and she departed vigorous, and in a happy, triumphant,
revival spirit.
Without specifying any further, we have here all the
science in order to be happy, and make others happy or·
miserable. We have blessing and cursing. The good
and bad may each select their instrumentality, and clothe
themselves as with a garment. ,
We must add one more rule of action. The husband
wishes to produce in his wife, or the wife in the husband,
the most vivid perception, feeling, of their first love in
the nestlings and banquetings of connubial endearment.
Fix upon the idea. Now select the purest, the most thril·
ling, the most devoted, self-consecrating of the season;
and the whole season, be it weeks, months or years. Car-
ry this through the series in electric efficiency, and we
have the sublimation reduced to the highest cap:tcity.
This is almost insupportable felicity-it is ineffable. This
is what has been called Platonic love. Not cold, but too
warm, bright, thrilling, angelic to descend to physical in-
dulgence. The sisters of the apostles realized this, and
remained virgins and sisters still. It will be laughed at by
some, but let it be remembered that ifthe limbs can be
made spasmodic, the whole physical energies prostrated,
the limb cut off, or as with Madame Plantain, the most
delicate organ, as the breast, amputated, while she is in-
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 129.
eensible to pain and the operation, yet seeing and direct-
ing concerning it; then there is no point in felicity or
misery, within the sphere of our individual capacity, to
which the iudividual may not by this instrumentality be
carried.
We conclude with a last instruction in the art of hap-
piness. The individual who has become clairvoyant, and
who, as a husband or wife, agrees that, when absent, it
shall at stated hours talte place, may make a compact to
~arry into execution the most endearing purposes. Con-
centrate the mind; go through the operation of reducing
to clairvoyance; will your personal appearance and ac-
tion to the persoa as life, and that the transaction follow;.
and the individual will experience the result-and as a
reality. Sublimate this by the electric numbers and op-
eration, and the tenderness and felicity will far surpass
the communion of ·flesh and blood. This is a high exer-
tion of concentrated mind on a beloved and devoted ob-
ject.
Reversion will transport the wife into the presence of
the husband. Few females, comparatively, would have
aufficient determinate and fixed energy of mind. · The
heart would excentre the head~ With those who are thus
electric, though at the time asleep, we have but to say-
calling the name distinctly, as Eliza, awake-and sleep is
oo more. The object starts from sleep with the affec-
tionate inquiry, What do you want 1 Delightful excur-
eions may be taken from city to city, and from coun-
try to country, attended with the most interesting conver-
eation, without expense to either, during the hours of
sleep.
Everything as before being done ; make a covenant to
travel in the way directed, and this energy shall come
from infinite space. Electrify a pencil to this effect;
specifying, as it is electrified, all the particulars which a
general design would require, whert made special; now
.electrify one end to put to sleep, and the other to wake,
and give it the person. 'fhe receiver must specify the
.object, time, place or jaunt, and will to awake him or
11
,,giti_e byGoogle
.130 ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.
herself at such a time. The receiver of the grace will
exercise the power, and enjoy everything as life, without
any demand upon the absent person. I had my form be-
fore a person three days, open, distinct as life, while the
individual was awake; and travelling with the person
when asleep; I being all the time insensible of any de-
mand made upon me; and during the time actively en-,
gaged in all the scenes of busy life. These things can
be sustained by the affidavits of the individuals; but they
are sustained more fully in the light and energy of the
science itself.
Finally, to make most efficient, easily and rapidly;
• take the purest religious enjoyment, or conjugal affection,
as the case may be, and determine the high numbers upon
the hP.ad, hE'art, and that part of the brain or system de-
signed to be principally effected, making each special; as
27000 upon the head, 81000 upon the heart, and 243000
upon any class of organs, or any system; and add, in the
name ofJehovah, let it be-and it is so. The effect comes
upon the mind, heart and system with almost instant ce-
lerity and amazing power.
To conclude. This is a high science, and may be
abused. There are safeguards, however, equal to the
power. The influence is almost instantly felt; and virtue
can know and escape. The name of Jehovah used in
faith, will shield every one, either in a special or general
emergency, from all influence or injurious effect. "I
will in the name of the .Jehovah that this pass;" and it
is gone. Say, "I wiH that Jehm·ah be my shield and
defence;" and it is powerless. The person who doell
not consent, and the truly pious pE'rson, whether Chris-
tian. Mahometan or Indian, is safe. Not that it is evil,
except in evil hands. It is a high law of action now
known and understood; and which will be put in opera-
tion. Though destitute of the first principles of the
science, yet as spreading out many facts, we recommend
the Rev. La Roy Sunderland's system of Pathetism to the
perusal of all those into whose hands this volume may fall.
My object has been to present the science so far as to es-
oioitized byGoogle
ANIMAL ELECTRICITY. 131
tablish animal electricity upon its true foundation. I trust
I have done so, and leave others to make a noise, and claim
immortality forwhat they never discovered and never knew.
I have been throwing these ideas before the public since
1838, when they were as to the unity of matter; that mat-
ter the electric fluid; and what was called animal magnet-
ism and clairvoyance, elcctrice ffects; made known to the
world through the columns of the Charleston Courier, S.
C., and the equilibriists and pathetists of the day. I have
now "written a book "-and for the alone sake of the sci-
ence. If cordially received, we can follow it by some-
thing more extensively illustrative of the principles of
animal electricity, in their bearing upon the high inte-
rests of mankind. The fi~ld is illimitable, and the object
transcendently important.
,,giti_e byGoogle
