{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__pyne___vital_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Vital Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
VITAL MAGNETISM;
a Jl\emeb~:
ar
THE REV. THOMAS PYNE, A.M.,
;( .' ·, \ ..
i'-
;"-·
~~~; .
"Ml8"etiamua, quia paaaim viget, pneter nomen, Dit(ofi40JIIinet: •.. :, ;
nee par&doxua nisi iia qui euneta derident, el in Satanilie'.iblni:DS~
ableganl q112cunque DOD lnlelliganL"-V.llf HBLIIOKT. ~--
LONDON:
SAMUEL HIGHLEY, 32, FLEET STREET.
1844.
CONTENTS.
-
CHAPTER I.
INTRODUCTORY 7
CHAPTER II.
THE AUTHOR'S MIND OPENS TO THE SUHH:Cr l''
CHAPTER III.
A BRIEF HISTORY OJ' VITAL MAGNETISM I i
CHAPTER IV.
THE PRACTICE OJ' MAGNETISM IN RECENT TIMES • 28
CHAPTER V.
THEORY OJ' VITAL MAGNETISM . 37
CHAPTER VI.
OBJECTIONS TO MAGNETISM-METHOD OP OPEB.AT·
ING 55
CHAPTER VII.
CASES AND CONCLUSION . 62
A2
PREFACE.
-
IN issuing the following little Treatise, it seems
reasonable to offer a few remarks as to the causes
of my engaging in an inquiry into the subject of
Vital Magnetism. First, then, I trust I have been
led by a love, for its own sake, of truth, my pole-
star from earliest years. Secondly, I have found
the subject connected with some scientific associa-
tions to which Alma Mater directed my mind as a
student. Thirdly, I have learned that here is
seated a power, which, the gift of a merciful God,
is fraught with remarkable blessings to man.
And, fourthly, I have considered, that, if Mission-
aries were to learn the method, and suitably exercise
it, in subserviency to their exalted calling, they
would gain thereby a great accession of influence,
not for temporal good only, but for moral and
spiritual purposes.
vi PREFACE.
Under these circumstances, though I may wish
that I had more of intellectual stores, and of medi-
cal knowledge in particular, by which to illustrate
the subject, and to add authority to my words;
and, though I regret that some minds, who might
adorn the science, are, through various causes,
little acquainted with it, or may even be ranked
among its opponents, yet I willingly bear any rail-
lery, or, though not insensibly, even graver cen-
sures, to which my attention to Magnetism may
have exposed me, being fully satisfied that I have
entered upon the investigation with a faithful
mind; and in that spirit I commendit to the calm
and candid judgment of my readers.
V I T A L M A G N E T I S M.
-
CHAPTER I.
INTRODUCTORY.
IT is announced in prophecy not only that the
earth shall be full of the knowledge of the glory of
Jehovah; but also np~ry "ii'1f.'l1 that knowledge
-science in general-shall be increased or multi-
plied. With such a prediction before him, the
believer in the Scriptures Ca.nnot but expect a
great augmentation in mental actiVity, and in dis-
coveries, being sure that a matter which has been
deemed worthy of prophetic care must be in itself
remarkable.
Without, then, wishing to concentrate too much
the rays of prophetic light on our day, a danger
against which we should carefully watch, it is yet
reasonable for us to observe the openings of Pro-
vidence, as connected with the Divine word. By
this means our faith will be confirmed; and, instead
of opposing science, or endeavouring to mould it
to our pre-conceptions, we shall receive its revela..
tions with the meekness of wisdom, with gratitude,
8 VITAL MAGNETISM.
admiration, and a desire to use each fresh degree
of information for the Divine glory and the good of
men. Thus, in the best enjoyment of the present,
we shall learnto revere the past, but to live for the
future.
Yet, by the nature of the case, if knowledge is
to be increased, the discoveries must come upon
us as novelties; for what is already ascertained
cannot be the subject of invention. This simple
thought should prepare us for unexpected stores;
while some points may be only the expansion of
· our present ideas, others will, of necessity, be of a
character wholly unlooked for.
We all can bring to mind instances of this kind
of inexperienced truth. In one sense, indeed, they
are necessitated by the state of infancy from which
we grow: but here prescription and example teach
us, and lead us on so gradually, that we do not per-
ceive how much we are called to learn. But, in
another, the world at large is to be a learuer, and
in this character it is inapt in understanding and
slow of heart. It forgets that it, too, has its child~
hood, where, there being no visible parental guid-
ance, and no teaching but from itself, it demurs at
most things, is indisposed for progress, and doubts,
if it oppose not, every truth, not because it is un-
reasonable, but because it is new.
It may be, too, that interests generally attach
VITAL MAGNETISM.. 9
themselves to things as they are. Let but a frag-
ment of cliff fall into the channel and soon it will
be incrusted with sea-weed, and the limpet will
find on it a home; even thus, whatever portion of
knowledge, or of error, has descended to our times,
quickly becomes the basis for spontaneous growths
of advantages and plans.
Besides this, there is in novelty something start-
ling to the human mind. It offends the pride by
which we deemed ourselves already wise; it must
break up some previous theory, and put us in the
place of learners. Then man seeks about for rea-
sons against intrusion. Ignorance wields such
weapons as it can. Ridicule may serve where ar-
gument could not. And persecution is a readier
instrument than reason. Man has forgotten his
sphere of honour as the minister and interpreter of
Nature, and fails, through the excess of vauity, by
making himself her arbiter. Great names are ap-
pealed to rather than just sentiments, and words
are often used to mystify things.
It is, however, by no means intended by these
observations to make light of the cautiousness due
in the investigation of every novel truth. There is
a spirit of scrutiny which is highly needful in
all our reasonings, but which is especially proper
in unexpected paths; and this in the degree in
which they are unusual. To weigh, to pause, to
10 VITAL MAGNETISM.
collect facts, to go only so far as, and no further
than, the premises admit, this is essential to all the
higher exercises of reason. We should scrutinize
phenomena, as we would strangers coming to our
door; but, then, we would not rudely refuse hos-
pitality, knowing, that some have thereby enter-
tained angels unawares. To theorize is a second-
ary consideration; too promptly, indeed, under-
taken in the curious working of our minds, yet,
after all, neither essential, nor ultimately definite,
and offering only the formulte of phenomena, not
the primary causes ofthings. But this kind ofpati-
ent inquiry must be carefully distinguishedfrom the
prejudices of ignorance. It is not the side on which
error is usually found. It is, rather, an instructive
speculation to observe how generally mankind
have sought to smother and destroy the infancy of
truth. Perhaps this hatred has been designed by
a kind Providence to keep humble the men of ra-
diant mind who have discovered it, and who are
naturally enamoured of that which theirgenius has
brought before them, and, at all events, we may
learn the caution due from ourselves in reference
to every unexamined statement, and to pray-Keep
back Thy servant from presumptuous sins. Nor
is it only respecting truths actually new that we do
well to exercise a cautious judgment. Things may
be new to us which are well known to the world;
VITAL MAGNETISM. II
and, at least, truth may have revealed itself in
beauty from an early age to the few holy and hum-
ble men of heart who have adorned our nature in
succession, which to the mass may remain entirely
obscure.
Happy, then, is he who is contented to be a
learner,-a learner evermore at the feet of the great
monitress Nature,-who will receive every ray
which history or science gives him with meek
thankfulness, yet feels the scantiness of his know-
ledge and waits and seeks for more; who bows to
the great truth, that for every fact, as for every
faculty, there must always be a reason and an end
proportionate; and who uses, therefore, his mental
opportunities, in obedience to the will of God, for
the chastening and improvement ofhis moral facul-
ties, for the glory of the Divine Being, and the
happiness of man. Such cannot fail of a reward,
because their state of heart ensures one; they are
recovering the image of the Most High within, and
they enjoy His favour: here they experience the
greater blessedness of giving than of receiving;
hereafter, where ignorance and error are not, they
shall receive abundantly, and grace for grace.
The above remarks apply with peculiar force to
the subject of animal magnetism, on which we are
about to enter. It is a question involving the
great principles of life and the laws of nature, and,
12 VITAL MAGNETISM.
therefore, should be approached only in a religious
and a philosophic spirit. In this temper, even
should any reject the propositions, the inquiry will
not have been in vain: the mind will have been
brought into more near communings with God
and with itself, and at least the disposition will
prepare it for the investigation of other truths.
-
CHAPI'ER II.
THE AUTHOR'S MIND OPENS TO THE SUBJECT
OF VITAL MAGNETISM.
I usE the name Vital Magnetism, not as com-
mitting me to a theory, but because it is the title
in more frequent" use on the Continent, and be-
cause, personally, I prefer it to that derived from a
modem practiser of the art, Mesmer, who made
an attempt to methodise the subject, but left it
sUITOunded with some pretensions of a doubtful
character.
The manner in which my own mind was first de-
cisively directed to the inquiry was by reading the
following passage. I adduce it, not as being my-
self of any consideration, nor as disposed unduly
to be influenced by authority, but because I thought
'''" ob,Google
VITAL MAGNETISM. 13
the practical application of the subject in the hands
of such a man as Lavater was sufficient to make
me sure that it deserved attention:-
In the Memoir of that distinguished scholar by
Heisch, (p. 112), it is stated, that, while at Geneva,
he had frequent opportunities of seeing the opera-
tion of animal magnetism performed; and having
from these observations become convinced of its
salutary influence in many illnesses, particularly
nervous ones, he determined on his return to
Zurich to try this new method of cure on his wife,
who had often been affected with nervous com-
plaints, and was at that time labouring under a
severe and obstinate illness. He found all the
phenomena which he had witnessed on his journey,
or of which accounts had been communicated to
him by others, confirmed. In this .case, too, there
was no fear of deception. Having been thrown
by the operation into magnetic sleep, Mrs. Lavater
conversed on things of which, while awake, she
knew nothing. Lavater, who was so well acquainted
with the extent of her knowledge, could judge
with accuracy of the new ideas she expressed
during this exalted state of her mind. This opera-
tion, which he continued for some time, having
greatly alleviated her illness, Lavater and his bro-
ther, a highly respectable physician, tried it also
upon others; and the following is the result of his
14 VITAL MAGNETISM.
observations, so far as they relate to health, in his
own words:-
" I am not satisfied with the whole of Mesmer's
system, but I believed what I heard from respect-
able witnesses, and now believe, what I have often
seen with my own eyes, and what my brother has
seen more than a hundred times, and what any
one may see every day, that there is a power in
man, which, by a certain manipulation, can pass
into another, and produce the most striking ef-
fects. I believe, that some intelligent persons
suffering under disease, particularly such as labour
under nervous complaints, can, through this opera-
tion, be thrown into a kind of trance, in which
they have finer perceptions than in their waking
state, and often foretel, with the greatest precision,
things relating to their health. I am convinced,
that, through this operation, I have given consi-
derable relief to my wife, and can almost immedi-
ately relieve her when fresh symptoms appear."
Lavater then gives a very proper caution as to the
judicious use of such a power; and his biographer
observes, that " he acted in reference to the sub-
ject as he always used to do when his mind was
occupied with new and important ideas. He corre-
sponded with intelligent men, particularly such as
entertained different opinions, in order to rectify
his own. This practice, and the continual reading
VITAL MAGNETISM. 15
and holding fast the doctrines of the Scriptures,
guarded him," continues Heisch, "from attributing
to the exalted state produced by magnetism any
similarity or affinity to that of the inspired writers."
Now, Lavater, though chiefly known in Eng-
land as a physiognomist, was, according to Dr.
Hunter, the publisher of his chief work, " a man
of the greatest talent. Every period of his life
has been marked with luminous zeal in his cleri-
cal capacity, with intrepidity in his public, and
with primitive innocence in his private, conduct.
His works on a great variety of topics, though all
directed to one end, that of promoting order, in-
structing ignorance, exciting virtue, diffusing hu-
manity, and regulating taste, are sufficiently nu-
merous to fill a library. He was boru a poet, an
orator, a philosopher, a critic." With such a tes-
timony, it seemed to me no longer possible to
doubt the desert of the subject to consideration;
and this sentiment was strengthened when I became
acquainted with the fact, that Cuvier, the best mo-
dem physiologist, was also a believer in it; and that
La Place, the most accurate mathematician, had
declared, that the testimony in favour of its truth,
coming with such uniformity from enlightened
men of many nations, who had no interest to de-
ceive, and possessed no possible means of collu-
sion, was such, that applying to it his own princi-
16 VITAL MAGNETISM.
pies and formulas respecting human evidence, he
could not withhold his assent to what was so
strongly supported*.
This, according to Dr. Elliotson, was in a con-
versation with Chenevix about the year 1816; ac-
cording to whom, (on the same authority), "In
the whole range of human argument, no art or
science rests upon experiments more nwnerous,
more positive, or more easily ascertained."
While, then, we would not defer to names, how-
ever great, who merely pronounce ajudgmentwith-
out examination, we may properly accept the con-
current testimony of accurate thinkers and men
of probity, such as have been adduced. This will
free the subject from the imputation of anything
vulgar, frivolous, or improper, as necessarily con-
nected with it, and has been, to a certain extent,
my surety in commencing inquiries respecting it.
At this time I heard frequent conversation re-
specting it, with much ridicule and opposition
cast upon its advocates: I proceeded to experi-
ment, and found confirmed the statements of its
friends.
* London Medical and Physical Journal, p. 500.
VITAL MAGNETISM. 17
CHAPTER III.
THE HISTORY OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
IT is curious, and may offer a lesson of modesty
to the modems, to observe how many principles
and truths may be traced, at least in their rudi-
ments, in times far remote from our present in-
quisitive and stirring age. Thus, for instance,
toleration, which was only legalized in our country
in A. D. 1688, received its birth in the declarations
of Scripture ; and the respective discoveries of
Watt, Guttemburg, and Gioia, may be found, in
their elements, the first among the attempts of
Archimedes; and printing and the compass among
the Chinese. The great distinction between the
present and earlier reras is not so much in the ad-
vancement as in the diffusion of knowledge, thongh,
again, diffusion certainly tends to advancement,
from the fresh lights reflected from many minds.
The wondrous temples of Baalbec and Palmyra
were surrounded, probably, by shepherds' tents,
as our cathedrals, when rising in beauty, over-
looked almost the rudest forms of habitations.
Men kept their information in guilds or crafts, or
more commonly reserved it as the subject of
B
18 VITAL MAGNETISII,
family secrets. It was a part of their capital, and
the source of their honour; and a natural selfish-
ness led them to prefer their private distinctions
to a public good.
And thus truths affect uswith all the airof dis-
coveries, which have only been extended, and per-
haps methodized, among us. Among these Animal
Magnetism may certainly be placed. Traces of it
are to be met with among the few from a very
early date. Carefully guarding, as in candour we
are bound, against the supposition of the miracles
of scripture having been performed by this art, for
among them are Inany circumstances recorded to
which magnetism could never aspire; we yet can-
not fail to observe details which render it probable
that the subject was not unknown to the Hebrews
and the neighbouring nations. Thus, Naaman
said, when seeking for the prophet's aid. " I
thought he would surely come out to me, and
stand and call on the name of the Lord his God,
and strike his hand over the place, (move his
hand up and down-Hebrew), and recover the
leper*." Pyrrhus is recorded by Plutarch to have
cured persons by the touch of his toe-the same
thing is said to have been done by a family in
Dauphine from father to son in our day. The
* 2 Kings, v. 11.
VlTAL MAGNETISM. 19
prophetic oracular voices were probably rendered
efficacious from the same cause as prevoyance;
and the Druids, who are designated by Pliny as
prophets and physicians, are said, by Pomponius
Mela, to have wonderfully cured diseases, and to
have predicted events soon to occur.
" In the following verses of Solon," says Mr.
Colquhoun, " we have the earliest, and, perhaps,
the directest testimonies to the practice of mani-
pulation, as a sanative process, to be found in anti-
quity. It is surprising that they should have
hitherto escaped the notice of all the writers upon
Animal Magnetism, many of whom have exercised
great diligence in collecting the allusions to this
process which occur among the ancients-
lloillx, 1! le&Af.yrr; &OVnJs p.lya ylyvera' a..\yos,
K' ol11c Av Tls AW~T· 7prm .p.ipp.a.Ka 8ow·
Tov 8( KCliCal:s votluaw-' IOJKtiJp.cvov &.pyaAJ.a,s TE
'A.p&.p.cvos XEI.pol:v aft/ta Tlo-qu' ;,y,~.
Solon apud Stobamm*.
The following remarkable expressions occur in
the Amphitruo of Plautus:-"Quid, si ego ilium
* Thus translated by Stanley-History of Philosophy,
1666 :-
.. The smallest hurts sometimes increase and rage
More than all art of physic can assuage;
Sometimes the fury of the worst disease,
The hand, by gentle passes, will appease."
B2
20 VITAL 'MAGNETISM.
tractim tangam, ut dormiat." These expressions
are evidently used euphemistically in a humorous
sense for "What if I knock him down!" but we
can hardly fail to perceive that there is here an
obvious allusion to some method of setting persons
asleep by manipulations. In the following verses
of Martial, the process in question is not merely
alluded to, but pretty fully described. They oc-
cur in B. 3, Ep. 82, and appear to refer to some
refinement of luxury:-
Percurrit agili corpus arte trsctatriJ:,
Manumque doctam spargit omnibus membris.
We have distinguished between the miracles of
Scripture and Magnetism; for the latter makes no
pretensions to such a power as that of rendering
perfectly sound a withered arm, or of instanta-
neously giving sight, with all the effects of expe-
rience, (the greater wonder of the two), to one
born blind. Locke proposes the question, sup-
posing one born blind to be made acquainted by
the touch with the surfaces of a cube and a sphere,
so that he should be able to distinguish them,
and that his eyes were suddenly opened, and the
bodies placed before him on a table, and he were
asked to tell by the sight which was the cube,
which the sphere? would he be able to do so?
VITAL MAGNETISM, 21
He decides this question in the negative. Diderot,
speaking of a young man who had been couched
by Cheselden, says, "The young man whose cata-
racts were couched by this sMlful surgeon, did
not, for a long time, distinguish either magnitudes,
distances, or even figures from each other. An
object of an inch in size, which, when placed
before his eyes, concealed a house from his view,
appeared to him as large as the house. All ob-
jects were present to his eye, and appeared to him
to be applied to that organ as objects of touch are
applied to the skin. He could not distinguish by
his sight what, by the aid of his hands, he had
judged to be round from what he had judged to
be angular. He attained, though not without
difficulty, to a perception that his house was lar-
ger than his chamber, but he could never conceive
how the eye could give him this information.
Many repeated facts of experience were required
in order to satisfy him that paintings represented
solid bodies; and when, by dint of looking at pic-
tures, he was convinced that what he saw before
him were not merely surfaces, he felt them with
his hands, and was much surprised to find only a
plain surface without any projection. He would
then ask which of his senses deceived him, his
touch or his sight." Similar to this is the beau-
tiful narrative of Caspar Hauser. On being di-
22 VITAL MAGNETISM.
rected to look out of window at a lovely prospect,
(shortly after his release, and before his eye had
become accustomed to objects), he drew back with
visible horror, exclltiming, "Ugly! ugly!" Some
time afterwards, when asked what had caused this
impression, he explained, that, when he looked out,
it always appeared to him as if a shutter had been
placed close before his eyes upon which a painter
had spattered the contents of his different brushes.
Be could not distinguish single things one from
another.
In the Lord's miracles, then, an effect was pro-
duced of a kind different entirely from that of
magnetic agency; for, as the benefits of visual ex-
perience were given, so a higher intellectual range
was imparted. The blind or the withered restored
received, not only a new power, but a fresh mental
development for its adequate and instantaneous
use. So, too, in the storm, not only did the
awakened Saviour make at once a great calm,
hushing, in an instant, winds and angry waves,
but immediately the ship was at the place whither
they went. Thus, as he said on another occasion,
" The Father worketh hitherto, and I work."
But there is another power to which, perhaps, it
may be analogons. St. Paul, in his enumeration
of spiritual gifts, twice mentions those of healing
xap{up.a.Ta wp.O.TWV, placing them after miracles,
VITAL 'MAGNETISM. 23
from which they may be clearly discerned, as
being, however wonderful, only a natural power.
It is to something of this kind, probably, that
Eusebius refers, when, having quoted from Irenreus
a modification ofthe stupendousworks ofChrist and
the Apostles, he observes, "these gifts of different
kinds also continued with those that were worthy;"
and it is, possibly, something of the same kind
that the ancient Chaldeans, and the modem Chi-
nese, (according to the Jesuit missionaries), are
known to practise.
The trust of the North American Indians in
their prophets, who, like those of the Druids, are
also their physicians, may have a similar founda-
tion; as well as the power exercised by the Roman
Church, which has always maintained that mira-
cles were wrought among them; and which, on a
recent occasion, adduced the case of Estatica, who,
clearly in the magnetic trance, allowed a fly to
cross her open eye, walking over the ball, without
flinching, and was only moved from her fixed gaze
at the image of the Virgin, by the priest (her
magnetizer, we presume) coming near, and exhi-
biting the consecrated host.
We find traces of an original revelation of moral
truth through all the tribes of men; and it may be
that fragments of Divine discoveries of this nature
may also have been dispersed, though, partly
24 VITAL MAGNETISM.
through wickedness, and by the influence of igno-
rance, mixed with many superstitions, and con-
founded with the supposition of magical arts. In
the earliest periods of man's history, it pleased
God to allow angels to descend and converse with
his children. Perhaps it was thus that the prin-
ciples of language, so highly philosophical and
above other inventions of a rude people, were
given; and perhaps, too, such a matter as the ob-
taining of fire, as the Greek legend intimates; and,
at all events, we may ask, next to the duties of
man to his Maker and his fellow, what subject
could be more suited to form the basis of angelic
converse than one calculated to raise almost above
earthly ties the human spirit, and to scatter the
blessings of health and the freedom from pain
throughout the world?
There is another curious point connected with
the question, which also merits attention, viz., the
power attributed to royal persons to cure diseases.
Allusion has been made to the power of Pyrrhus
in this respect ; but the accurate Tacitus (Hist.
iv. 81) (supported by Suetonius) is yet more de-
finite. I offer a translation:-
" During the months in which Vespasian was
waiting at Alexandria, many miracles occurred,
by which the favour of Heaven, and the propitious
disposition of the deities towards him were shewn.
VITAL MAGNETISM, 25
A certain Alexandrian from among the common
people, who was known for a disease of the eyes,
fell at his knees, entreating with groans a remedy
for his blindness, which he thus sought by the
monition of their tutelary god Serapis, praying
the prince to condescend to bedew his cheeks and
eye-balls with his spittle. Another, having a
diseased hand, prayed, by the advice of the same
god, to be passed over by the foot of Cresar.
Vespasian at first ridiculed the matter ; yet, as
they continued their importunities, at one time
fearing the imputation of vanity, at another led to
hope, by their entreaty and the voice of his
courtiers, he at length requested the physicians to
give their opinion as to whether such a blindness
and debility could be cured by human aid. The
medical men offered various judgments. ' With
respect to the former, they thought that the
power of vision was not actually lost, and Inight
be recovered, if the obstacles to sight could be
removed; and as to the other, that the limbs,
though in a very bad state, might be restored, if
the principle of health could be exhibited : that,
perhaps, the gods, in their divine benignity to
the prince, had chosen him to this work ; and, at
all events, that the honour of success would be
Cresar's, while the patients only would have the
disgrace of failure.' Vespasian, therefore, deeining
26 VITAL IIAGNETISH.
all things open to his fortune, and that nothing was
impossible, himself, with a glad countenance, the
multitude being all intentness on the transaction.
performed the requisitions. Immediately the hand
was restored to its energy, and the day shone
again to the blind. Moreover, some who were
present, now, when no longer any advantage could
be derived from a falsehood, still aver the facts."
In this narrative the saliva is mentioned, the
power of which, as well as that of the breath, is
not unknown to magnetists ; and it is to be ob-
served, that the patients stated that it was by the
advice of the numen or oracle that they applied ;
which seems to confirm our previous remark as to
the sybils, the Pythian priestesses, &c., being in
possession of the secret. But the point to which
we would direct chief attention is, the idea that
the Cresar or King possessed this virtue of cure.
The same sentiment was held in the middle ages.
Milton, in his " History of Britain,'' in summing
up the character of Edward the Confessor, says,
" He was full of alms-deeds, and exhorted the
monks to a like charity. He is said to be the
first English king that cured the disease thence
called the king's evil : yet Maimsbury blames
them who attribute that cure to his royalty, not
to his sanctity ; said also to have cured certain
blind men with the water wherein he had washed
VITAL MAGNETISM. 27
his hands." The kings of Scandinavia, especial-
ly St. Olaf, and, after them, the French kings,
were reported to have a like power, so that in the
latter case the words " Le Roi te touche, Dieu te
guerisse," passed into a usual form for the oc-
casion. Our faithful chronicler Evelyn, mentioning
the entrance of Charles the Second into the City
(1660), of which he (Evelyn) was an eye-witness,
says, " His Majestie began jirat to Iouck for the
evil, according to costome, thus : his Majestie,
sitting under his state in the banquetting house,
the chirurgeons cause the sick to be brought or
led up to the throne, where, they kneeling, the
king strokes their faces or cheekes with both his
hands at once, at which instant a chaplaine in his
formalities says, ' He put his hands upon them
and he healed them.' This is sayd to every one
in particular. When they have been all touch'd,
they come up again in the same order, and the
other chaplaine kneeling, and having angel gold
strung on white ribbon on his arme, delivers them
one by one to his Majestie, who puts them about
the necks of the touch'd as they passe, while the
first chaplaine repeats, 'That is the true light
who came into the world.' Then follows an
Epistle (as at first a Gospell), with the Liturgy
prayers for the sick, with some alteration; lastly,
the blessing : and then the Lo. Chamberlaine
2M VITAL :MAGNETISM.
and Comptroller of the Household bring a basin,
ewer, and towell, for his Majestie to wash."
In 1684, Evelyn again relates, " There was so
great a concourse of people with their children to
be touch'd for the evil, that 6 or 7 were crush'd
to death by pressing at the chirurgeon's doore for
tickets." Dr. Samuel Johnson is the last person
known to have been thus touched for the evil : he
was brought to Queen Anne by his mother for the
purpose, but without success.
-
CHAPTER IV.
PRACTICE OF MAGNETISM IN RECENT TIMES.
THE seventeenth century, whichwas remarkable
for the spread of knowledge in other respects, has
the honour of reviving or introducing this subject.
A Mr. Valentine Greatrakes had become acquainted
with the power, from what source does not appear,
and exercised it upon the learned author of the
" Intellectual System*." The Bon. R. Boyle
testifies to the excellency of this gentleman, and
to the cures performed by him. A shoemaker,
named Dal, of Auxerre, was also in the habit of
* Cudworth.
VITAL MAGNETISM. 29
employing it ; and a yet more remarkable person,
named Gassner, who became Catholic minister of
Closterle, where he performed, under the pro-
tection and observation of the government, a
number of wonderful cures*. His plan was to
use manipulations ; but he began by thinking
exorcism permissible and useful. This was in
keeping with the superstitions at that time passing
away; but had nothing whatever to do with the
power.
After these arose F. Antoine Mesmer, a native
of Weiler on the Rhine, born in 1734. This
person commenced practice as a physician in
Vienna ; but, having applied himself to magnetism,
he received so little encouragement, that he was
obliged to leave the city. He had written a dis-
sertation on the influence of the planets upon the
human body, which had caused him to be re-
garded by the medical world as a speculatist and
nthusiast; and a subsequent difference with
Father Hell, a Jesuit, to whom he was indebted
for some hints on mineral magnetism, seems to
have affected his fortunes. But, as Bacon says,
"a good notion never dies," and, though perse-
cuted in Vienna, Mesmer carried with him his
secret and his power. At Berne, therefore, and
Zurich he was still successful in cures ; and at
* Calhoun, p. 45.
•
30 VITAL MAGNETISM.
length appeared in Paris with his favourite hypo-
thesis. At first he used metallic rods as the
medium of conveying the energy ; but subsequent
experiments led him to abandon these, and to
conclude that the human frame, well-poised and
healthful, is the best or sole depository.
He put forth his views in twenty-seven propo-
sitions*, but as they were partly borrowed,
especially from Van Belmont and Maxwell, and
were not without admixture of error, it is scarcely
needful to do more than to refer to them. He
was, however, a strong and independent thinker.
At Paris his opinions received considerable at-
tention, and drew upon him, as at Vienna, much
opposition. But as he now gradually assumed an
air of mystery, used darkened rooms, music, and
the baquet or tub, the persecution might not be
wholly without cause. He· made considerable
sums by the sale of his secret, which led him to
be ill thought of; yet, on the other hand, the
fame of his cures was such as to lead the French
government, in 1784, to appoint a commission to
inquire into his pretensions. This committee
was composed partly of physicians, and partly of
members of the Academy of Sciences, and among
them were Franklin and the learned Jussieu.
Franklin, who was unwell at the time, appears to
*See "Teste's Manual of Animal Magnetism," p. 2.
VITAL :MAGNETISM. 31
have paid little attention to the proceedings ; and
Jussieu thought it good to publish a report of
his own, in which he vindicates the subject from
the prejudice and ignorance with which the rest
treated it. But even these, although their report
has been received as giving a final blow to the
cause, appear rather to have established the main
fact which would be contended for by magnetisers.
They seem to have made the ascertainment of a
magnetic fluid the object of their observation, and,
having asserted its non-existence, because of its
imperceptibility by the senses, they conclude that
" Imagination, imitation, attouchement, telle sont
les vrais causes des effets attribue au Magnetisme
Animal." To their report, made, it would seem,
on a very partial examination of cases, they added,
as a caution, " Les procedes du Magnetisme
etant dangereux, il suit que tout traitement public,
ou les moyens du Magnetisme seront employes,
ne peut avoir aIa longue que les effets funestes."
Yet, notwithstanding this appeal to the timidity
of men, and the general ridicule and invective with
which the subject was met, it continued to advance.
One party, observing the errors of Mesmer in ap-
pealing over-much to external things, placed the
principle ofcure solely in the will; but another com-
. bined the truth of the two; viz., the commanding
power of volition as connected with that of which
32 VITAL MAGNETISM.
Jussieu had spoken: "The action which certainly
appertains to animal heat existing in bodies, which
constantly emanates from them, is earned to a con-
siderable distance, is capable of passing from one
body to another, and is developed by moral as well
as physical causes."
Of this school the leader was the Marquis de
Puy&Cgur. By gentle and moderate treatment, be-
ing himself probably of a mild but decided chllfS,c-
ter, he produced the most agreeable as well as
sanatory effects on his patients. The violent crises
and convulsions of Mesmer were avoided; and he
describes himself as transported " at the effects
which a man, with a kind heart and a desire to do
good, may produce by means of animal magne-
tism."
The subject was thus gradually advancing when
the French Revolution occurred, and amidst those
insane proceedings, and the sanguinary struggles
which followed, this, as well as other objects of
science and benevolence, languished, or was almost
unknown. Yet, still in the more tranquil parts of
Germany and France, it was quietly practised, and
again after the return of peace, and, therefore, of
the freedom of human inquiry, attained such consi-
deration, that once more, in 1825, the French
Government issued a mandate to the Academy of
Sciences for their investigation of its truth or false7
VITAL MAGNETISM. 33
hood. This commission was composed of nine
persons, ofestablished reputation for accuracy and
candour, and was charged, by the Academy at
large, to observe, " that the decision in 1784
should by no means sanction them in dispensing
with examining the subject from the beginning, be-
cause no decision in science can be pronounced
absolute and irrevocable."
The commission commenced their sittings in
1826, and gave a report in 1831. All their inqui-
ries were conducted in the. most ,philosophical
spirit; they appealed to those who were acquainted
with them to attest their fidelity and honesty, and
took the utmost precaution against deception.
In their proceedings* they rejected those things
which appeared as mere accessories or accidents in
Mesmer's experiments: they neither admitted nor
rejected the existence of a fluid, because they did
not verify the fact; but they established their obser-
vations under the four following divisions, viz.:-
I. That magnetism has no effect upon persons
in a state of sound health, nor upon some diseased
persons.
II. That in others it is slight.
III. That these effects are sometimes produced
by ennui, by monotony, and by the imagination.
* Report, &c. by Colquhoun.
c
34 VITAL MAGNETISM.
IV. But that they had seen them developed in-
dependently of these last causes, most probably as
the effect of magnetism alone.
Under this head they not only verified the more
common facts, such as a momentary acceleration of
the respiration and circulation, fugitive, fibrillary,
convulsive motions resembling electric shocks, a
numbness in a greater or less degree, heaviness,
somnolency and somnambulism; but, also, several
most curious phenomena ofclairvoyance, and ofthe
prevision of acts or injuries of the organism; and
were decided, in their opinion, that, " considered as
a cause of certain physiological phenomena, or as a
therapeutic remedy, magnetism ought to be allowed
a place within the circle of the medical sciences."
Some of theirmagnetized patients, they observe,
felt no benefit from the treatment. Others expe-
rienced more or less decided relief, viz. one, the
suspension of habitual pains; another, the return
of his strength; a third, the retardation for several
months of his epileptic fits; and a fourth, the com-
plete cure of a paralysis of long standing.
Besides this remedial power of magnetism, they
perceived its efficacy in another highly important
class, viz., that of enabling patients to endure with-
out sensibility, and, therefore, without suffering,
operations from which human nature ordinarily
VITAL MAGNETISM. 35
shrinks. " The greater part of somnambulists, they
assert, whom we have seen, were completely insen-
sible. We might tickle their feet, their nostrils,
and the angle of the eyes, with a feather; we might
pinch their skin so as to leave a mark, prick them
with pins under the nails, &c., without producing
any pain, without even their perceiving it. Finally,
we saw one who was insensible to one of the most
painful operations of surgery, and who did not ma-
nifest the slightest emotion in her countenance, her
pulse, or her respiration."
In this declaration reference was made to the
case of Madame Platin, who, in this state, had her
right breast cut out on account of an ulcerated
cancer of several years' standing, combined with a
considerable swelling (engorgement) of the corres-
ponding axillary ganglions.
Nor is this the only ca~e on record of such in-
sensibility. Mr. Colquhoun, the able translator
of the report, publishes, in a foot-note, the follow-
ing instance:-"John --, farmer, had an abscess
in the internal and upper part of the thigh; the
operation required prudence, as the crural artery
crossed the tumour. Count B-- placed the pa-
tient in a state of magnetic somnambulism and
produced complete insensibility; the operation was
performed in the house of the Juge de Paix, of the
Canton ofCondom, Department of Gers, in the pre-
c2
36 VITAL MAGNETISM.
sence of several distinguished persons, and is re-
ported in the Journal of Toulouse."
In England, also, numerous instances of surgical
operations, without pain, are now recorded. Dr.
Elliotson has published an account of some of
these, to which it may be sufficient to refer the
reflecting reader*.
Surely, then, a power so simple, yet so efficaci-
ous, well deserves the consideration of physiolo-
gists; and especially when we can add, that, as a
therapeutic agent also, it is placed beyond doubt;
but this last consideration I leave to a detail of my
personal experience in a future chapter.
*See " Surgical Operations without Pain in the Mesmeric
State. By T. Elliotson, M.D. Cantab., F.R.S."
VITAL MAGNETISM. 37
CHAPTER V.
THEORY OF MAGNETISM.
OuR duty, in reference to knowledge in general,
is to observe facts, rather than to form hypothe-
$eS. To go on, as Bacon teaches, in the modest
accumulation of positive data; aware that these
are eternal truths, whatever may come of our opin-
ions. Yet, to the diligent inquirer into nature,
some law or ultimate rule will usually make
itself apparent, and then mystery, which was
truth seen in fragments, is perceived to cohere,
and to be as beautiful as it is simple. The comet,
at first, not only astonished, but affrighted man-
kind; and still remained inexplicable till the law
of a body moving in an hyperbola was ascertained.
How wise and needful also the long induction, un-
til, at length, the truth, on which the universe de-
pends, of the attraction ofbodies varying inversely
as the squares of their distances, poured like a
flood of light on the reflecting mind of Newton.
Mariners have used the compass for ages, and yet
the proper theory of.mineral magnetism remains
to be solved, and even the place of the central
abode of the force is but just ascertained. And
38 'YITAL MAGNETISM.
thus, in the subject before us: facts are to be con-
sidered, compared, received. We must not ex-
pect an over near approach to the causes of things
connected with our primary being. Yet something
may be said, and, if in modesty and caution, the
thoughts may offer, at least, a step in the right
direction; and, at all events, may suffice to pre-
vent a priori objections to the whole subject.
First, then, it may be remarked, that the ques-
tion of an animal power, acting at a distance from
the creature employing it, is put beyond doubt by
the now familiar phenomenon of the electric eel.
This animal, though far less energetic than when
found in its native rivers, may still be seen any
day at the Adelaide Gallery to kill fish, put into its
tub as a prey, at a distance from them. The fish
are, at first, full of life, till the creature wills the
shock, and then, at once, though no apparent
cause intervenes, at the volition of the eel, they
rise to the surface dead.
When, then, we compare the lower development
of the gymnotus electricus with the complete ar-
rangements of nature in the most perfect of her
works-man, is it unreasonable to conclude that
something may be found in him similar to this
power, but proportioned to J;he excellency of the
creature, and to those moral attributes of compas-
sion and sympathy which it is the will of God
VITAL MAGNETISM. 39
that he should exercise? For defence and sus-
tenance the eel has received the gift, for compas-
sion and for happiness the nobler being-man.
Secondly, the conditions predicated of magnetism,
although peculiar, are not wholly foreign to us in
our normal state. It is in many aspects, at least,
one whose symptoms are already found; the dif-
ference being, that, in magnetism, they are pro-
duced artificially or at will. The remedial power
of sleep, for instance, is a matter of such universal
experience as to render it needless to insist upon
the fact. Nor is it apparently only by the repose
it affords to the muscular system that it acts; for
while, on the one hand, we perceive that a very
long rest, as a night passed in a reclining posture,
but without sleep, is not sufficient to restore na-
ture, a few minutes even, the mere forgetfulness of
a moment, will often totally reanimate the frame.
It would seem, then, that there is some peculiar
agency acting by the mind upon the nerves in
slumber which renews the principle of life within,
and this will suffice, full often, for the assuage-
ment of pain, and the restoration of health. The
anxious question of the physician, " Has the pa-
tient slept? or, How has he slept?" will shew the
opinion entertained of the importance of this gra-
cious arrangement of nature, which, in some cases,
as in delirium tremens for example, is the sole
,, ,,,,,Coogle
40 VITAL MAGNETISM.
known remedy; while the approximation to insen-
sibility observable in the state may prepare our
thoughts for receiving the notion of a yet greater
withdrawal of the mind from its outposts. But
what is said of natural sleep is, in some respects,
true of that caused by narcotics. These are the
best means hitherto known of producing arti-
ficial slumber; their effects are in a high degree
deadening as to pain, and, were it not for the de-
rangement of the organs produced by some other
of their qualities, the result would, probably, be
far more remedial than it is.
But, whatever these may be, our object is made
out; viz., in the establishment of the two points-
first, of the remedial effects of slumber; secondly,
ofthe possibility artificially to produce it. This is
not precisely magnetism; still less is it the whole
thereof; but it affords a clue to some of its phe-
nomena. The question which remains, as far as
these analogies obtain, is, the possibility of pro-
ducing coma by the means which we assert.
The same kind of argument may be derived
from catalepsy. Here is an insensibility, more or
less complete, with rigidity of the muscles; and so
far magnetism produces, by voluntary effort, simi-
lar results.
We may, advancing another step, observe also
the parallel in normal somnambulism. This state
VITAL lU.GNETISM. 41
differs from that of dreaming chiefly in the con~
trol which the will has in it over the bodily fun~
tions. The mind does not receive ordinary im~
pressions from the nerves, yet it conveys them ex-
teriorly, and derives, to some extent, a conscious-
ness from its own acts. IIi this state, com·ersa-
tion, wayward, generally, and fanciful, yet correct
in result according to the principles assumed, will
be held ; the mental faculties are often refined,
something very like prevision at times occurs, and
the thoughts in one fit of somnambulism, though
forgotten during the waking intervals, will be re~
sumed at the next. Persons have been known to
compose mnsic and poetry in their sleep. Dr.
Franklin observed, that political affairs, both in
their circumstances and results, were rendered
greatly more clear to him in dreams than when
awake. Dr. Abercrombie mentions the case of
Dr. Blacklock, who, having lost his sight at the
age of a few months, had, in his dreams, a distinct
impression of a sense which he did not possess
when awake. In waking hours he discerned per-
sons by hearing them speak, and breathe, and by
feeling the head and shoulders; but, when asleep,
he imagined himself united to them by a kind of
distant contact, which seemed to him as though it
were effected by strings or threads passing from
their bodies to his own. Another case is also
42 VITAL MAGNETISM,
mentioned of a servant girl who had fits of somno-
lency, in which she would both speak and perform
many things correctly, yet who, though, during
the paroxysm, she had a distinct recollection of
what took place in former paroxysms, had no re-
membrance of it at other times. On one occasion
she was taken to church while under the attack,
and there behaved with propriety, evidently at-
tending to the preacher; and she was at one time
moved to tears by the discourse. In the interval
she had no recollection of having been at church;
but, in the next paroxysm, she gave a most dis-
tinct account of the sermon, and mentioned parti-
cularly the part by which she had been so much
affected*.
In these cases-cases of a class so familiar as to
have been instanced in one of the most popular of
our dramas, by a man who knew well the human
heart-" I have seen her rise from her bed,
throw her night-gown upon her, unlock her closet,
take forth paper, fold it, write upon it, read it,
afterwards seal it, and again return to bed : yet,
all this while in a most fast sleep." In all such
instances we have more or less a groundwork for
belief in the curious phenomena of magnetism.
We see something different from the waking
consciousness, at times superior to it. The wonders
* "Abercrombie on the Intellectual Powen," p. 302.
VITAL MAGNETISM. 43
of old received may reasonably prepare our minds
for others more newly established.
And this leads us to some cognate considerations.
The case of infection with disease is generally con-
sidered as established. However hidden the causes,
a long experience has proved the fact of the peril
to health in being near certain classes of fever.
In whatever way we account for it, whether by the
impurity in the atmosphere derived from the
secretions in a state of disease, from sympathy, or
a nervous medium, the truth is granted. If, then,
it be possible to infect with maladies, why not
with health1 When infectious disorders enter a
crowded ship, their encroachments on the healthy
proceed With fearful rapidity; while, on the other
hand, no place is, I will not say more healthy
merely, but more restorative to the sick intro-
duced under other circumstances among them.
The refreshing or sanative power of young persons
upon the aged is well known ; so much so, that
the longevity of school-masters, according to
Hufeland, as quoted by Townsend, has been as-
cribed to this cause ; while, on the other hand,
the young associating chiefly or wholly with the
aged, and especially sleeping with them, are found
to droop, and to contract various ills. The
anatomy schools and the premises of the nacker,
where the atmosphere is impregnated with the
44 VITAL MAGNETISM.
effluvia of old and diseased subjects, are pro-
nounced insalubrious ; while the trade of the
butcher, exercised among the carcases of young
and healthful creatures, is known to be favourable
to life.
Again, I have seen a person deprived of three
senses, i. e., having but taste and touch, who yet
was by no means incapable of holding communi-
cation with those to whom she was accustomed.
The remaining faculties are proportionally quick-
ened, as others are lost ; as, for instance, the touch
and ear to the blind, and the sight to the deaf.
And what is the cause? Is it not that the mind
becomes concentred on these senses? I asked a
partially clairvoyant patient how she could discern
certain objects which I held in my hand when her
eyes were closed. She answered, " I see through
my eye-lids." Another, whom in like manner I
interrogated, when she described objects, one after
another, which I held at the back of her head,
and which, even had not her eyes been shut, she
could by no possibility have seen, replied, " I
feel them." The senses are evidently in great
degree relative. M. Blaze, in his history of the
dog, mentions the case of a servant who had de-
signed to murder his master. A dog belonging
to the gentleman was found most troublesomely
determined to remain in the master's sleeping-
VITAL MAGNETISM. 45
room. At length, the master permitted the in-
trusion, when, in the middle of the night, he was
awakened by the dog having seized the murderer's
throat. Blaze accounts for this susceptibility of
the dog by the supposition of eflluvia passing from
a man when be intends a crime which might fore-
warn the animal. Further, the perceptions of
some creatures, as the grylli, are said to commence
where ours end: yet when we remember that
colour is found to proceed from vibration ; that
every vibration in the aura or substance must have
a corresponding vibration in our nervous texture ;
and that we can accurately perceive the difference
between colours, as scarlet and violet, though the
vibrations of one are 458 millions of millions of
times, and of the other 727 millions of millions of
times in a second, we learn to estimate the incon-
ceivable rapidity of such motions, and, therefore,
the subtility of the impulses which give rise to
ideas in the mind.
For it ~hould be observed that the senses, as
they are called, that is, the organs of sense, are
only instruments for the collection of impulses,
and by no means the ultimate power. They do
but receive and modify exterior impressions, and
so convey them to other nerves, along the solid,
·pellucid lines of which they are to pass to the
sensorium. The eye, for instance, by means of
46 VITAL MAGNETISM.
the dilating and contractile power of the ms,
always introduces sufficient, and only sufficient,
rays to be refracted upon the retina. There the
beauteous picture, at times a landscape of some
forty miles, at others the filaments of the feather
of a humming-bird, is formed, in reverse; then
will the inner nerves commence their activity, and,
by answering impulses, carry on the object to the
seat of perception. So again the ear, with its
self-adjusting sentries, the bones and muscles, and
its long, voluting chamber of sound, will convey
to the soul just so much of the first impact, and
no more, as is requisite for audition. In all these
cases, and, in short, in the whole fabric of the
epidermis, which may be considered a universal in-
strument for the sense of touch, the object seems
to be to deaden exterior impulsions, and to leave
it to the nerves to respond to such degrees, and
only to such, as may be most suitable to the mind.
I once asked a man who had recently lost his
arm if he felt any pain. His reply was, " No; my
only inconvenience is, that I have got my little
finger over the next, and I cannot remove it."
Here, and in numberless such instances, was the
case of sensation retreating to the central nerves.
I well know a person who was subjected occasion-
ally to the distressing consciousness of seeing
things double. It came on in reading Greek;
VITAL MAGNETISM. 47
and he beheld sometimes the words, sometimes
the page, sometimes his acquaintance's face, twice
over at the same moment. The symptom, which
proceeded from derangement of the gastric func-
tions, always yielded to remedies; but it left the cu-
rious sense of the mind's power of multiplying its
images. It is well-known that the blind can dis-
tinguish colours by the touch. In the same way,
a man entirely deaf may ascertain the relations of
sound. "Mr. Sanderson, the blind mathema-
tician," says Dr. Abercrombie, "could distinguish
by his hands in a series of Roman medals the true
from the counterfeit with a more unerring discri-
mination than the eye of a professed virtuoso;
and when he was present at the astronomical ob-
servations in the garden of his college, he was ac-
customed to perceive every cloud which passed
over the sun." In the case of muact.e tJolitantea,
the appearance is of spots or bodies floating be-
fore the eyes; yet the whole cause is referable to
a fulness of the vessels of that organ. Sir I.
Newton remarked, that, when he produced a spec-
trum of the sun by looking at it with the right
eye, the left being covered, upon uncovering the
left, and looking upon a white ground, a spectrum
of the sun was seen with it also. He could also
recover the object by thinking intently upon it;
" and at length, for some months after, the spec-
48 VITAL MAGNETISM.
trum of the ·sun began to return as often as I be-
gan to meditate upon the phenomena, eveu in bed
at midnight."
From the above considerations, not only will
the curious energy of the nervous system be ob-
served, but the power of the mind by attention to
employ particular portions ofit for its distinct pur-
poses. We are, in a sense, all nerve, as we are
all life; while the soul, the queen, receives all no-
tices, and governs and directs her forces to her
especial objects; and yet on the other hand, in
the circulation, the peristaltic motion and the gan-
glionic system at large, even as the herbage grows
spontaneously, and rivers sparkle to the sun, and
from brake and field a thousand sources of na-
tional prosperity, unknown and unbidden, flow; so
here, matters are going on in secret harmony for
the good of the universal frame. We should
have enough to do to take care of our instincts.
A gracious heavenly Parent inworks for us in all.
Thus much for the question of the nerves.
Another point remains in reference to the power
exercised by parties foreign to ourselves upon
them. Wherever there is influence, there must
always be a medium through which that influence
is conveyed. Hence, Sir I. Newton, observing
the attractions ofthe heavenly bodies, justly asked,
if there were not some substance necessarily per-
VITAL 'MAGNETISM. 49
vading space which caused these*; an opinion
which the retardation of comets has since proved
correct. And again he observes, " If in two large,
tall cylindrical vessels of glass, inverted, two little
thermometers be suspended so as not to touch the
vessels, and the air be drawn out of these vessels,
and these vessels, thus prepared, be carried out
of a cold place into a warm one, the thermometer
in vacuo will grow warm as much, and almost as
soon, as the thermometer which is not in vacuo.
And when the vessels are carried back into the
cold place, the thermometer in vacuo will grow
cold almost as soon as the other thermometer.
Is not the heat of the warm room conveyed
through the vacuum by the vibrations of a much
subtiler medium than air, which, after the air
was drawn out, remained in the vacuum ? And
is not this medium the same as that by which
light is refracted and reflected?" When a needle
is magnetised, it receives a power wholly tmper-
ceived, yet of a most remarkable character; and
a wheel, moving with a velocity which in day-
light shall render its spokes invisible, or as one,
seen at the same velocity by the electric light,
will appear to be at rest.
In these cases, then, an aura, or medium, is
* See "Townsend's Facts in Mesmerism," p. 418.
D
50 VITAL XAGNETISX.
fmmd to exist, which is not the ordinary atmo-
sphere, but which, it may be, fills its interstices,
indefinitely subtile, and penetrating alike the deep-
est caverns of the earth and the loftiest regions.
We would not call it necessarily caloric, or elec-
tricity; it may be either; it may be something yet
more rare,-a supposition rendered probable by
the fact that magnetised iron is capable also of
being mesmerised; yet it is sufficient for our pur-
pose that such an aura is found. In certain cir-
cumstances, no heat will suffice for the health and
content of an infant, except that which it obtains
in its nurse's arms; while the method of placing
a body in asphyxia between two living persons
is well known to be highly remedial. If we
take some wool and heat it moderately, so that a
thermometer, placed in it or in the human hand,
will ascend to the same point, a difference may
still be discovered between the kinds of heat,
though none is indicated by the mercury. The
existence, then, of such a medium being un-
doubted, its immediate connexion with life follows.
For not only does every universal agent connect
i~self with our vital functions, but this, in propor-
tion to its fineness, evidently pervades our frames.
The nerves, however wondrous in structure or
impressibility, are still but matter; the mind is
the only source of power; it remains to apprehend
how the two become connected: and as in every
VITAL MAGNETISM. 51.
other force, through nature we see nothing dis-
rupted or out of joint, as in the polypi, the fungi,
the amphibia, or the ornithorbyncus; so in things
connected with so ethereal a gift as mind, it
seems probable that there should be an interme-
diary between the spirit and its bodily organs:
and this, the secondary spring of life, under the
control of its primary, and carried out for effi-
ciency through the bodily organs, is made availa-
ble for the control, to a certain extent, of another
being put into relation to it; and hence, by its
inpouring upon that structure for the assuage-
ment of pain and the restoration of health. Na-
ture loves equilibrium, and God, its author, re-
joices in compassion. Hence, as the rod of iron,
becoming negatively electrified, i. e., losing its
electricity, is found to be a conductor, while the
iron steam-boat (where the metal, being in masses,
retains its charge) refuses fresh supplies, (a gra-
cious arrangement by which, on the one band, our
houses may often be preserved, and, on the other,
we can pass through a charged atmosphere, our
seeming danger our security): as it is thus in
ordinary electricity, so in the auima-magnetic
process: where need is, the deficiency is supplied;
where there is abundance, the life-giving power
cannot be received.
And it is from these principles apparently that
D2
52 VITAL MAGNETISM.
the higher magnetic states known as clairvoyance
and prevoyance are derived. When a stone is
thrown into a calm ocean, the undulations spread
circularly, and would, were there no disturbing
forces, extend from pole to pole. Again, when a mu-
sical chord is struck, the aerial vibrations, the atmo-
sphere being a perfectly elastic, yet ponderable,
fluid, extend spherically, except so far as gravi-
tation, the earth's surface, and other resisting
substance intervene; but the perturbations of an
imponderable perfectly elastic medium will extend
on every side, their only restraint, the vis inertie,
inhering in every form of matter. Supposing,
then, the mind to gain the knowledge of signs or
impressions in this medium, even as it must ac-
quire all ordinary knowledge throngh impressions
or vibrations of the atmosphere, its perceptions
will extend as far as these vibrations; and as we
have seen this agent not resisted by substances,
which ordinarily offer resistances to the grosser
air, the ideas excited in the mind through its in·
strumentality will also pass through such seeming
obstructions. This view will account for some of
the phenomena which seem very like the gift of a
sixth sense, while the same basis of knowledge
will render the mind of the magnetised person,
in certain very elevated conditions, receptive of
the more forcible impressions of the magnetiser ;
VITAL MAGNETISM. b3
and this relation being established, the one will,
in a certain degree, seem gifted with the intelli-
gence and the judgment of the other. To what
extent the magnetised person may become in that.
state percipient of knowledge before wholly alien
to his mind is, perhaps, scarcely ascertained; but
the sources of information just DArned may be the
latent causes not only of some of the extraordinary
phenomena of far-sightedness, but also (though I
do not assert there is nothing further) of what is
called phreno-magnetism. There is a story of
some Missionaries in Labrador who saw the ship
on which they depended for their year's provisions,
and which contained some of their friends, fast on
a rock, at several days' sail from the place where
they stood. This supposed miracle, as also the
fata morgana, and the clear-sight of the native of
the Mauritius, who could discover ship.s at three
or four days' sail from the land, may easily be ac-
counted for on the principles of refraction. But
they furnish a kind of parallel to clairvoyance, so
far as the grosser atmosphere may be comparable
to the finer magnetic medium; while the won·
drous impressionability of mind on mind, the in-
stinctive apprehension of thought, may give some
elue to the experience of the finer harmonies of
the m~"''letic interchange. Let but the agents be
compared, and the results will not seem so incre-
dible.
54 VITAL MAGNETISM.
The whole of nature bears an impress in its
delicate changes to human thought and action,
making, as it were, an open book for the great
judgment; and were our spirits but more observ-
ant on such a subject, we might learn that, even
beyond all that we perceive of consequences, there
is a higher range, not now appreciable, but full of
power, which must meet us in the moulding of
mental character in eternity. The spring of life
is ever-welling, and it forms to itself its bed in its
path to the great ocean. The magnetic effiuvia
course over the earth, not alone to turn the needle
of the ship-man, nor alone for the support of
vegetable and animal life, but for purposes of our
highest being, and to lead us, it may be, to
thoughts of God, the primal mind in its majesty;
and of our own mind its image, and bright, though
imperfect, reflection.
Connected, then, with such a basis, may all our
future life be found. Not only may it form to us
the luminous vehicle of the intermediate state, as
possibly it did when the Judges and Samuel were
seen coming up out of the earth, but the glorious
and spiritual body with which we are to be clothed
upon in heaven, and which, in its aptitude for
movements, in its undecaying elements, and beau-
teous arrangement, will be the fit partner for the
redeemed spirit. The word " seraph " seems to
VITAL MAGNETISM. 55
imply such a substance, while the fact that Ga-
briel was 'l:P'=il ')~~ "weary in tlying," shews
that even that strong archangel has a corporeity
dependent on some form of matter. Just as in the
curious laws of crystallization, after the severest
chemical changes, the body returns not only to
defined particles, but to these in normal forms, and
even in some cases to the very form of its antece-
dent state, as in the residuum ofpyroligneous acid;
110 the arrangements of this subtile rether may be
found superior to dissolution, and remain the ves-
ture of the soul in that happy eternity, in which
Mind shall with mind direct communion hold,
And kindred spirits meet to part no more.
-
CHAPTER VI.
OBJECTIONS TO MAGNETISM-METHOD OF
MAGNETISING.
AN objection is sometimes made to magnetism,
which, were it not for the excellent qualities ofthe
heart of some who propose it, would scarcely de-
serve attention. Yet it is, perhaps, widely-spread,
and that in proportion to the ignorance which pre-
vails on the subject. I allude to the notion that
the effects are produced by satanic agency. With
56 VITAL MAGNETISM.
these parties it is not merely " omne ignotum pro
magnifico," but " pro diabolico." Yet surely such
merciful objects as the assuagement of pain and the
cure of disease would not be within the wish of
the spirit of evil; nor can even the curious exalta-
tion of the faculties, and the various philosophical
inquiries to which magnetism leads, be in any way
shewn to be among his works. It is a curious spe-
culation to observe how much disposed the igno.
rant and marvel-loving have always been to trace
the work ofthe devil in things they know not. Is a
scene rather more striking than usual, it is the "De-
vii's Dyke," "the Devil's Punch-bowl," "La Ca-
verna del Diavolo," &c. The name for a steam-boat
on the Niger is" devil-ship." "Our Arab hostess,"
says Mr. Drummond Hay*, "in Morocco, now
handed us a bowl of milk, and I gained the good
graces of the coterie by addressing an Arabic coup-
let of compliments to them. On this there was age-
neral burst ofacclamation, 'He isArby! he isArbyI'
(anArab). Then followed a thousand questions; but
having accidentally pulledoft'my glove, theclatterof
tongues ceased at once, and all shrank back in hor·
ror at what they considered an act of sorcery, look·
ing aghast and seeming to mutter in alarm, 'What
next?' ' 0 most merciful God I' exclaimed the
* Western Barbary, 184,.
VITAL MAGNETISM, 57
old woman, ' keep us from Jins and from men that
work by the evil spirit.'" When printing was in-
troduced into Paris, and Faustus was found multi-
plying copies of the Bible with wondrous rapidity,
and selling them at thirty crowns, while the scribes
asked 300, it was roundly asserted that the printer
had sold his soul to the devil; and the red ink with
which the volume was illuminated was adduced in
proof, and asserted to be his blood. In this way a
new truth has often been met. But I have usually
found of such objections, that, though like the at-
mosphere, they may press upon me from every
side, like it they yield when once we boldly ad-
vance. God has been pleased to place nature, i.e.,
his order, in various ways under our power; and it
would be an evil day for human happiness should
we ever be induced to yield to such idle fears.
Knowledge should be esteemed the handmaid of
religion; but if religion, forgetful of her proper
and gentle dignity, begins to surmise that she is
attended by a gnome, it may bt> that a separation
will take place, which will lead to a false indepen-
dence in the one, and to the darkness of supersti·
tion in the other.
Another objection of a graver character against
magnetism is, the sentiment of its being unfriendly
to morality. Now, here, as to general tendencies,
it may safely be asserted that nothing can be more
58 VITAL MAGNETISM.
erroneous; for, if a m~onetised person is in the ear-
lier states of coma, the mind is as sufficiently active
to repress evil as it is in ordinary circumstances: if
in the higher condition of sleep-waking, its impres-
sions are withdrawn from the senses, the judgment
is refined, and, in short, the soul is in a condition
of the highest mentality. Townsend says, I think,
of one in such a state, " that it seemed as if the
soul had received for the time the wings of angels."
"Separated," he observes," from the usual action
of the senses, the mind appears to gain juster no-
tions and quite a new sense of spiritual things, and
to be lifted nearer to the fountain of all good and
of all truth."
"A state so simple, so religious, so tender, yet so
pure, is in itself a refutation of the charge of im-
morality. If to this be added the absolute dead-
ness of corporeal sensation which accompanies it,
there will be a manifest absurdity in the supposi-
tion that it is an affair ofthe senses."
The soul is impassive, the physical instincts are
suspended, and conscience, which, as Bishop War-
burton* beautifully calls it, is moral instinct, can
fully work. Besides this, no good person would be
magnetised any more than he or she would con-
verse with those in whom confidence could not be
* " Divine Legation of Moses."
VITAL MAGNETISM. 59
placed: while, as a means of avoiding even the
appearance of evil, it may be always possible, and
is very advisable, to have present some other re-
sponsible party.
But to go on to another subject, this little trea-
tise would scarcely be complete without a brief
indication of the best method of magnetising. This
appears to be, first, to place the patient opposite
to the magnetiser in an easy position, and such
as each can retain; then to put the points of the
fingers upon, and of the thumbs under, the should-
ers, but at a short distance from them; from thence
to draw the palms thus held gently down the arms
to the hands, which should be taken in such a
manner that the points of the thumbs of the mag-
netiser may touch the points of the magne-
tised person's·thumbs, and the tips of the fingers,
the palms of the hands. The eyes should be di-
rected to the eyes of the patient, who should look
without staring at the magnetiser. Meanwhile, the
magnetiser should will the convalescence of the pa-
tient, and feel as though an emanation passed from
the one frame to the other. The knees and feet
may be in proximity or contact; and the position
should be kept till an equality of temperature is
established between the parties. The first signs of
the power will be shewn in acts of gentle degluti-
tion by the patient, then by tranquil sighs; the
60 VITAL MAGNETISM.
eyelids will faU, and, perhaps, the eyeball will be;
with a slight convulsion, raised. The magnetiser
now withdraws his hands, and with the points of
the fingers makes passes at a distance down the
frame, following the great circle of the nerves; and
pointing at times to the feet. No upward passes
must be made, for this, in some cases undoes what
is done, and, in others, has been known to injure*.
The mind of the operator must be kept steady
throughout, and fixed on the patient, and no emo-
tion in the latter must rob him of his calm desire
to do good. Should any hysterical symptoms come
on, it will be well to demagnetise, which is done by
counter-passes, viz., by bringing the back of the
hands together, and then suddenly separating them
transversely ; this should be repeated from the
head to the trunk; and to any limb affected with
rigidity. Should this not be sufficient, blowing in
the eyes, introducing a current of air, or waving a
handkerchief across the face, will succeed. In no
case should a magnetised person be violently dis-
turbed, and in general it will be found well to leave
nature spontaneously to resume her activity. Water
breathed upon, or with passes made over it, may
at times be sent to a distance, and will usually in-
crease the activity of the force; and various sub-
• Teste mentions a person being made to retch for months
by these retractions from the stomach to the mouth•
......
VITAL MAGNETISM. 61
stances may in a similar way be impregnated with
the magnetic energy. In particular complaints
the remedy should be applied locally; and it is not
always needful to be near the parties to effect them,
six feet and six inches being of little perceptible
account in the intensity of the operation. It is
thought that silk is a non-conductor; and some
magnetisers have stood upon a stool of glass.
The operation is universally described to be as
pleasant as it is beneficial; and I never knew any
one properly affected by it, who did not desire it
to be tried again.
Finally, no experiments as such should be at-
tempted; and magnetism should never be practised
by any except by persons of a mature judgment,
and (as disease may be otherwise thus communi-
cated) by such as are blessed with health and free,
dom from hereditary tendencies.
VITAL MAGNETISM.
CHAPTER VII.
CASES.
NoTWITHSTANDING all that has been said, this
little treatise will yet, I imagine, receive its chief
value from experience. I, therefore, proceed to
give a brief account of a few cases, out of many,
which have come beneath my notice, and in which
it will be seen that the words of the parties in de-
scribing their sensations and their cures have
generally been followed. If the medical world
should be scandalized at the seeming intrusion
into their office, others will, at least, unite with
me, I trust, in gratitude to the Author of good,
who has bestowed such mercies on his creatures.
First, then, I may premise, that I have met
with a few instances in which little or no percepti-
ble change has taken place. One friend, on this
point, told me, that he had submitted more than
once to the operation, and endeavoured to commu-
nicate the force, and that he had been capable
neither of receiving nor of imparting it. For my
own part, if I do not succeed in a short time, ten
minutes or so, in producing some effects, I usually
leave off; for the exertion after that is great, and
VITAL MAGNETISM, ti3
I doubt whether the continuation is salutary to
the patient.
But, again, I have met with cases in which the
benefit has been only partial or transient; for ex-
ample, I find this entry in my book:-
----,age 74, rheumatism and numbness
in the right leg and foot, pain now in the abdomen
and thigh; has had it four months. After a quarter
ofan hour he signed his name to this declaration:-
"I feel myselfa great deal better; I can walk much
better without a stick than with one before."
However, on inquiry a month afterwards, the man
told me his pains had returned. Whether, if I
had continued to magnetise him, I could perma--
nently have removed the disorder I do not know.
The man's age was ~ooainst him, and in many cases
I have not been able to repeat often the attempt.
Another man, suffering from pleurisy, was quite
relieved for a few hours, but the pains returned;
he was not a susceptible patient, and I did not
succeed in removing them. He called in a medi:
cal man by my advice, (for I never unduly incur
responsibility), and that gentleman's treatment
cured him.
A young gentleman was received by me at first
every day for a week or ·so, then twice a week for
about a month. He had suffered from a forming
cataract. His father thus wrote to me:-"My
64 VITAL MAGNETISM.
boy's eye-sight is evidently much improved, and
the medical men who have seen him, and were
acquainted with his previous state, are much struck
with the alteration. One of them (the surgeon
and apothecary who attends my family) had a few
months ago thought an operation inevitable, as the
only chance of restoring the sight. He said to-
day, on seeing the boy for the first time since he
has been in your hands, that the eyes will get well.
I have not yet said to them a word of the cause of
this extraordinary amendment."
About two months after the date of the
above letter his sight had not gone back, and he
was still able to read, but with effort, a fine print,
which he could not read till after I had magnetised
him four or five times. Yet it was but a partial
benefit. He was very insusceptible, and I never
succeeded in comatizing him.
The above may suffice as instances of insufficient
or not completed cures. I would wish not to
ftatter myself with hopes beyond the facts. But,
perhaps, even in these, some defect in me, or the
want of the opportunity of perseverance, might
diminish or prevent the effect.
I come now to more complete cases. And, first,
of children. These I adduce because they offer
a strong argument against the remedial power
being merely the inftuence of imagination.
VITAL MAGNETISM. 65
An infant was brought to me aged seven weeks.
Her symptoms:-" She does not grow, screams
much, always craving, never sleeps by day, little
by night." I magnetised her for three minutes.
After eight days the nurse again called, and signed
this declaration:-" The infant is much improved
since Mr. Pyne saw her; she slept three hours-
and-a-half immediately, and has slept well since;
her appetite is returned, and she grows. The
parents are very thankful, and 1."
A child, aged about five years, was brought to
me aiHicted with deafness. I saw her three times.
The mother wrote me this certificate:-" Mrs.
- - feels greatly obliged to Mr. Pyne for the
benefit her daughter has received. She has been
quite cured by him of her deafness. Thanks be
to the Almighty for it."
I was requested to call on a family to see their
daughter, a child of about four years old. I did
so, and found her very ill with an abscess on the
saurus muscle. I only magnetised her for a few
minutes, but saw some change ; the next day I did
it more perfectly; it was evidently better. By the
fourth day it had dispersed. I give the parents'
certificate:-" My child,---, has been aiHicted
with an abscess in the loin for two months. A me-
dical gentleman attended her throughout the time
E
66 VITAL MAGNETISM.
but without relief. It was very bad, and it was
feared she would.not get over it, when the Rev. Mr.
Pyne called, and in treating her in four days she be-
came quite well; for which we feel very grateful.
Her appetite is returned, she runs about, sleeps
well, and her spirits are excellent. The medical
man said if ever she did get over it, most likely
she would be a cripple. Her limbs are quite free.
(Signed by the Father and Mother)."
In passing through my parish, I observed the
horse of a medical officer at the door of a cottage.
I, therefore, went in, supposing that sickness must
be there. I saw a poor woman lying on her bed,
and the worthy practitioner standing by her. The
woman, who had had an internal abscess, connected
with child-bearing, of some continuance, was suf-
fering much from a pain in her side. The medical
man in my presence ordered her a blister and some
further remedies. I said to him, " I think, Sir,
if you would pardon the liberty I take, I could re-
move that pain." "Oh ! certainly, if you can,"
he replied. I magnetised her for a few minutes
locally, and seeing her countenance brighten, I
said, " How do you feel?" " I have no pain in
my side now," she answered; "it is gone to my
leg and foot." I made some passes there, and
again asked her how she was. She said, " I am
VITAL MAGNETISM. 67
easy now." I said, "What do you mean? that
you are free from pain?" " Yes," she replied,
" quite free, and quite comfortable." I turned to
the medical man, and said, " I trust you will ex-
cuse my doing this in your presence." "Most
surely," he candidly answered; " I only wish I
could remove pain so easily." He left the house,
and the woman fell into a gentle slumber. No
blister was needed, nor other remedy. She was
well; better, as she informed me two months
afterwards, than she had been for fifteen years,
and she continued cured. The following is her
simple certificate:-" Dear Sir,-I return you
great thanks that I found so much ease from that
blessing that I received. I thank God for it, as
I was in great pain. Seven years afilicted; found
ease in five minutes."
I need scarcely add, that the medical man's
conduct was here as philosophical as it was
Christian.
The following may shew the charm which
magnetism has had for me. I mean, that the
happiness imparted by its curative property has
rendered me unmindful of ridicule or censure:-
A woman, aged sixty-seven, having dislocated her
right hip four years since, and the dislocation
having never been reduced, the weight of her body
in walking fell upon her left leg, which in conse-
E2
VITAL MAGNETISM.
quence had become weak, and dreadfully painful.
" It is now," she- said, as with evident anguish she
sat down, " like knives sticking into it through
agony. I cannot get any help from the doctors.
I cannot sleep. I have come to you through the-
wonderful cures I hear you have performed. The
thigh is worst, and the chief seat ofthe pain; the
whole leg stiff. I have had the pain all the
blessed winter; worse for the last three months,
now TERRIBLE!" In ten minutes, she said, "I
feel in Heaven now, thank the dear Lord, and
thank the gentleman; God bless you, Sir! Oh,
how comfortable ! I have not had such ease for
many months. I can put my leg up now, and
the stiffness is gone. I shall go home quite dif-
ferent. I can walk well, and had a hard matter
indeed to get here."
The following account I received from the lady
of an officer, at whose request I magnetised both
her daughter and herself. I confine myself to the
remedial effects in the description:-
"My dear Sir,-It will give me much plea-
sure to give you in writing a statement, as far as I
can remember, of the effects of mesmerism on my
daughter; for let me assure you both she and I feel
most grateful for your kind attention, and feel con-
vinced that you were, under Providence, the means
of restoring her to health, when, although there
VITAL MAGNETISM. 69
was no serious fonned disorder, her medical attend-
ant expressed considerable anxiety about her state
of health. She was suffering from influenza, which
had left great debility, pain in the back and side,
which had caused her for several days previously
to walk quite lame; there was swelling about the
under part of the face and total disinclination to
all exertion either of mind or body. You were
kind enough to mesmerise her. Neither myselfnor
my daughter had ever seen it tried on any one, or
had it tried on ourselves. In a very short space of
time she fell into a quiet slumber, sighing very fre-
quently, and appearing perfectly happy. She had
her eyes quite closed; when spoken to, she answered
readily. You asked her if she was oomfortable,
she replied, ' 0, yes!' At one time she frowned
and seemed in pain. You asked if she was so, she
said, 'Yes, in my side,' and pointed to the spot;
you asked if you should remove it, she answered,
' 0, yes;' and after a few passes made by you, she
seemed quite oomfortable and happy. After
an hour you asked if she wished to be awakened,
she replied, 'No, no!' You awoke her, however.
She sat up and said, ' She had enjoyed a delightful
sleep.' No one made any remark to her on the
subject for some hours; but we were astonished to
observe her set about various domestic arrange-
ments, wish for tea, and play with the children,
~.
70 VITAL MAGNETISM .
having evidently shaken off all those listless feel-
ings she had previously felt. She had no pain, and
the lameneu when she awoke was quite gone, and
has ne!)er returned. She slept soundly and com-
fortably all night, and, although not strong, conti-
nued free from pain, and recovered every day after.
" I can also testify to the power of mesmerism
in my own person when suffering from violent cold,
which had caused pain in every bone, so that I had
been two nights and days without sleep; but in a
few minutes you removed all pain, and I enjoyed a
night of refreshing slumber, certainly, I can safely
say, the most delightful sleep I ever enjoyed.
Trusting that this very truly valuable gift may,
through Divine aid, be the means of soothing the
afflictions of many, and hoping you may long enjoy
health to render you a blessing to those around
you, I wish you every happiness."
In one of the first cases of magnetism I had, the
following were the circumstances:-! called on a
person, whom I found very ill, unrelieved by medi-
cal remedies, and apparently sinking. The chief
seat of her malady appeared to be the liver. When
I visited her she said, " 0 that I could sleep! I have
not slept day or night for three weeks." I said,
"I think I could procure sleep for you." "Could
you ?" she said, "how grateful I should be; but I
VITAL MAGNETISM. 71
cannot take opiates; they have been tried, but only
produce greater uneasiness." I said, "Give me
your hands, and look at me." In three minutes
her eyes gently turned upwards with a slight con-
vulsionary movement, and her hand quivered. I
spoke to her, and she said, she felt a rapid pul-
sation at the heart. It was an anxious moment
to my inexperienced mind, but the fluttering ceas-
ed on my passing my hand near the region. She
slept a few minutes, and I awoke her, she smiled
delighted, and said, "0, I feel heavenly! as much
refreshed as by a night's slumber." Her pain in
her side was gone; but a stiffness in the knee, which
for about six weeks had been contracted, remained.
I made a few passes, and the leg relaxed. The
medical attendant expressed his surprise at her
unexpected improvement; and though she was not
cured, convalescence, according to her view, then
began. On one occasion, afterwards, when reclin-
ing on a couch, I asked her why she did not sit
up. She said, she had a drawing of the knees to
the body, and of the head towards the chest. She
thus then sat with her chin and knees very nearly
together; on making a few passes locally, she put
her knees down, and then her head back, and thus
I left her. Good medical advice was pursued in
this case. I, therefore, take no exclusive credit to
72 VITAL MAGNETISM.
magnetism; but it interested me much, and being
among my first essays excited me, with thankful-
ness, to attempt others.
A woman who had been confined was suffering
much pain, and, after six weeks' illness, was getting
no better, but rather worse. I magnetised her
twice-she was well.
Again, A--, aged about 50, was suffering
from excruciating face-ache, apparently tic dolo-
reux. She was very averse to magnetism being
attempted, and was altogether thankless. The
pain left before I quitted the house, the next day
she was very easy, and she has had no return of at-
tacks, though before she was constantly subject to
them.
Another writes, " I cannot omit to thank you for
your kindness in meeting me, and, as I truly be-
lieve, in having made a cure of the pain in my
chest, which I have been suffering with for some
years past. May God bless you for your kindness
to me a perfect stranger." I saw this person three
times. Her constitution seemed generally reno-
vated.
Another, aged about twenty-two: "Sir,-I was
seized with insensibility and loss of sight three
years since. In about half an hour by the use of
stimulants my senses returned, but I had paralysis
VITAL MAGNETISM. 73
in my right arm and side, which, and my tongue
also, would become quite dead, my arms would be
quite rigid, and this was followed by great pain.
I had good medical advice, and by the use of very
powerful medicines had some intermission; but
for the last six months it had returned, and for
three weeks before I saw you the attacks came on
several times every day. You have been so good
as to magnetise me four times, which has effected
in all respects a perfect cure."
Another says, " I have been suffering for thir-
teen years with a violent pain in the chest,
stomach, and left side, for which I have been
leeched and blistered, and taken much medicine.
I have been magnetised once. I feel a different
person altogether. I have had no pain since, can
place my hands firmly on my chest, and no one
could believe the relief I have found. I am well;
and Mr. Pyne's care has cured me at once.
(Signed) -."
Another: " I much regret not being able to see
you again before I left to thank you for your
kindness, and the trouble you took about me. I
must ever consider that I am greatly indebted to
you, as it is the opinion of myself and friends
that through you God's mercy was manifested
and my life ·saved. I know that this testimony
74 VITAL MAGNETISM.
can be of little consequence to you, but it may be
pleasing to find I have a grateful knowledge of
it."
Another: "My eyes have been failing for the
last six years; I have not been able to read a
chapter in the Bible for three years, or to work
by candle-light, nor, indeed, to see well when the
sun shone. You have been good enough to mag-
netise me three times, and have quite restored my
sight. I can see with perfect comfort by candle-
light as well as by day to read, work, &c. ; and I
am very much obliged to you."
Another: "Rev. Sir,-I am happy to inform
you that I am quite well after thirteen years' la-
bouring under a disease of a pain in the breast and
side and shortness of breath. I, therefore, Rev.
Sir, sendyou my most sincere thanks for the kind
office you have done me."
I might multiply these instances; but hasten to
another class. I have not myself magnetised any
one for operations; but in the coma I have, in
some instances, pinched the hand severely, but not
so as to bruise the flesh, without the patient be-
traying any consciousness; and a young medical
friend assured me that he had had a tooth extracted ·
without feeling. There is no reason to doubt this
power.
VITAL MAGNETISM. 75
I have now to speak of exterior ailments or
wounds. The following needs no comment :-
"-- duty to the Rev. Mr. Pyne, and begs him to
accept her sincere thanks for the excellent cure he
has performed for her in curing her broken breast.
(Signed) --." I saw this party three times.
A boy, aged about nine, was brought to me,
having a protruding spine, weak and suffering, and
with a scrofulous sore on the hand. I saw him
once. The father wrote me this letter:-" Sir, it
gives me much satisfaction by informing you my
little boy is very much improved in health and
strength. His hand is quite well, and he is alto-
gether better. Remaining much obliged by your
kindness. (Signed) --."
The following testimony has also been given me:
-"I have been afflicted for five years, with a sur-
feit covering the chief part of my face, and especi-
ally my nose and ears, with malignant sores. No
medical remedies could remove it. It was grow-
ing worse. Mr. Pyne called upon me a few times
and treated me. He has cured me. I thank him
greatly." The father adds, "The above is correct,
and my son has now got employment."
I called on a poor parishioner, aged twenty-six,
confined for a month with a sore foot. The chief
seat being the back of the heel. He had not slept
76 VITAL MAGNETISM.
the previous night for agony; the medical man had
lanced it in the morning; but still it was very ten-
der and full of pain. On magnetising him, in two
minutes he declared the pain gone, and putting his
bad heel (so bad that he could not bear me to
touch it) firmly on the ground, he stood on it alone,
exclaiming to his wife, "See, I am well!" He was
well from that time. I put him into coma for
twenty minutes, (in the meantime calling at an-
other cottage, and being permitted to relieve a poor
woman of serious pain in the face), then awoke
him. Once more he slept for three hours after I
left the house; then arose and played with his
child; and the medical man, I understood, pro-
nounced it a cure.
The following entry also occurs in my book.
I transcribe it, and the certificate of a most re-
spectable gentleman. I have heard nothing to
cause me to doubt of the man's sincerity in the de-
scription of his feelings. He was, however, a
stranger:-
- -- ran a rusty edging iron through his
shoe, and into his foot. A surgeon told him it
had gone to the bone, and he feared he would be
obliged to lay up a week or a fortnight. The ac-
cident caused sweating and fil.intness, but little
VITAL MAGNETISM. 77
hremorrhage. It had occurred three days before
I saw him, and he came to me in evidently great
pain, leaning on a crutch and a stick, and unable to
put his foot to the ground with his shoe on. In
a few minutes he was well, and signed his name to
these words:-" I feel cured, I thank God. I shall
carry my crutch and stick, for I shall run home
or a part of the way."
Then follows the gentleman's testimony:-" I
came into Mr. Pyne's house on a visit, and found
-- -- seated on a chair, Mr. Pyne having
attended to him. The man was rather somni-
ferous,. but shortly recovered himself. He gave
Mr. Pyne the above description, which was read
over to him in my presence, and I saw him affix
his name to it, jump about the room on the
wounded place of the injured foot, and take a
running departure from the house across the gra-
velled road, carrying his crutch and stick. (Signed
----)".
The man after this at once returned to his
accustomed habits, the cure having been com-
plete.
The last instance I shall state is this:-
The wife of a party, who had had a remarkable
cure, in gratitude for it, took me to a man, --
--, aged sixty, lying ill with a most seriously
VITAL MAGNETISM.
bad leg. He had pains in the knee, where a
thorn had run in; and two wounds on the ex-
ternal side of the tibia, one two inches long by
one-and-a-half inches wide, the other an inch each
way; great discharges, and black round the leg for
a hand's length. The woman, who begged me to
go, said, that the medical man feared it would
mortify, and would require amputation, and that
there was great danger of its occasioning the pa-
tient's death. 'l'he disease seemed scrofulous.
His mother had been in like manner afHicted. On
magnetising him, I saw it improve. The next
day I again called, and put him into coma. He
had scarcely slept before. He now slept generally
well. The hue of health returned. It was Sun-
day evening when I first saw him. On Friday he
was down stairs, and said he did not think such a
change could have passed on any one. He was
free from pain, and his wounds closing in health.
He gave me the following declaration:-" The
IWv. Mr. Pyne has read the above account to me.
It is very correct, and my leg, through his care, is
quite well. (Signed----)."
The cure was about three weeks in completing.
I saw him six or seven times.
Such has been some of my experience. I trnst
I have wished to exercise a candid and cautious
VITAL MAGNETISM. 79
judgment in the cases, and in most instances the
declarations of the parties verify the facts.
In conclusion; one chief thought strikes me,
viz., the adaptiveness of God's works to his mer-
ciful designs. In nature, we find the two rows of
petals to the daisy, and the two rings of Saturn
answering exactly similar comparative ends, viz.,
that of concentrating the sun's rays each on their
disk. In like manner, the range of mountains
round the equator of Mercury, given apparently to
cool the air, and add fertility to the ground ; and
the planet (by which our system seemed deficient),
expected by one philosopher, and discovered in
fragments by another, shew the unity of design
throughout the Divine kingdom, and its exactitude
of operation alike in the greatest and the least
things. The more we study and inquire, the
more do we perceive reason to anticipate yet other
discoveries ; and some suited to the peculiarities of
the human constitution, as these are to the fabric
of the universe. The Tabernacle of old was
covered with badgers' skins, dark and unseemly;
but within was the fine twined linen, the ark of the
covenant, the shekinah, and all things appropriate
for the service of the sanctuary ; and when once
we enter the glorious temple of nature, however
different may have been our expectations, all shall
80 VITAL MAGNETISM.
seem wondrous in beauty, and perfect in con-
trivance; and it is then only that we are in a
suitable frame of mind when we receive witt
reverential love the Divine developments, and
pursue our philosophical inquiries for the noblest
ends of God's glory and human welfare, in the
remembrance of the axiom of Bacon, "Non
fingendum, non excogitandum, .sed inveuiendum
et observandum quid natura faciat aut ferat."
THE END.
LONDON:
W. M'DOWALL, PRINTER, PEMBERTON-ROW,
GOI!GH•SQUARE.
