{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__smith___an_essay_on_human_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"An Essay On Human Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
Eptered aeeorf,ta•(o Ao&:Of._,~,•a tb l'-..l&ft.,_ tiP. Ol_••
Otlee of&1M Dlltrict Court ofUle Eat&ena Dlltrlct OfPeluil11valda.
• •
•
...,
I"
•
J
p·REFACE.
THE subject of the following essay, I am well
aware, is, in many places, one of the most unpopular
that I could have chosen to advocate; and I presume,
therefore, no one will doubt, that in thus appearing
before the public in the capacity of an author, I have
been prompted by an ardent solicitude to contribute to
the promotion of human happiness. Those who have
hitherto written upon human magnetism,have furnished
us with interesting accounts of its wonderful develop-
ments, and of the application of its power to useful
purposes. But few of them, however, have seemed
willing to hazard their opinions as to the agent con-
cerned in the production of its phenomena: and even
those few have either left the subject unsatisfactorily
explained, or enveloped it in still greater mystery than
before. From my own experiments and observations,
I have been forced to reject all the theories which I
have read upon the subject, and pursue, in many re-
spects, an independent course, having · . .
"No beaten path to tread, no practised course to steer."
In this course one fact after another has developed
itself, till all that was wonderful in.the science has be~
..
•
-
HUllAN ~IA GNE TISM.
CHAPTER I.
HUMAN MAGNETIS~f DEFINED, AND OBJECTIONS TO THE
SCIENCE CONSIDERED.
TrrE present age is one peculiarly characterized for
important discoveries. Perhaps no other century in
the whole history of man has developed so many in-
teresting facts, and witnessed such advancement of the
human intellect, as the one in which we live. In the
mechanical arts, that which a short time ago was in a
crude state, and of but little use to society, has been
carried to a high degree of perfection, while new prin-
ciples have been discovered by which the known
powers of nature are made more conducive to human
happiness.
New methods have been developed by which cer-
tain portions of the mineral kingdom which in ages
past were considered useless, are now made the sources
of immense wealth. The rugged earth is made to bloom
and groan beneath its luxuriance-in every direction
is heard the busy hum of manufactures-merchandise,
moving from port to port, is outstripping the \-Vinds,
and the various nations, by human inventions, are
brought together into one social circle.
Nor, in the sciences, have the discoveries been less
important and remarkable. Such, indeed, have been
the rapid strides in scientific discoveries within the
last half century, that the indolent student has now
to stand and gaze and wonder, while a large majority
of civilized society are groping in relative darkness,
2
6 BUJIAN MAGNETISM
ignorant of the very first principles of well established
sciences.
1. Snch is peculiarly the case in reference to human
magnetism. This science has claims of the highest
importance, and for many years has justly excited
great interest in different parts of Europe and Ame-
rica. Still but few, even of the edllcated, are as yet
acquainted with its principles, and many of them
would be unable to give any definite or satisfactory an-
swer to the question, what is human magnetism? The
same science has been denominated mesmerism, pathe-
tism, and animal magnetism. I prefer the name that
I have selected for reasons which will hereafter be
mentioned; and suggest the following definition, as
containing my own views of the subject.
Human magnetism is a science which exhibits the
nature and operation~ of the medium of communica-
tion between mind and matter, and teaches the art of
managing that medium for the production of human
happinest~. But for the benefit of those who have not
informed themselves upon the subject, I will endeavour
to give a more simple answer to the above question,
by a brief statement of a few facts connected with the
science. There is a certain independent mediun1
through which communication is kept up between the
mind and the body. lly this medium, the mind is
enabled to receive and send forth impressions, to invi-
gorate or debilitate the human system, and to diminish
or increase its pain:::t and diseases. Through this same
medium or agent, one person can exert a more or less
extended influence over othea·s by his volition, and with
additional means, such as a riveted look with the eyes,
passes, waves, touches, and grasps with the hands, &.c.,
he may extend this influence so far as to put others
into a state ?f ~omnambulism, called the "magnetic
state.". Whale an that ~tale t~e sense~ of the subject
are entarely suspended tn thetr operatton. His mind
can act independently of the body, and receive impres-
sions through any part of his own system, through
IN ITS INFANCY. 7
the senses of another, or direct from distant objects.
Thus he can read without the use of his natural eyes,
can tell the thoughts of others, describe their pains and
diseases, and perform many other mental operations
equally interesting. All his moral and intellectual
faeulties are exceedingly active, and he can transact
business, with the consent of the operator, nearly as
well generally, and in some cases better, than when
in the natural state. Surgical and dental operationR
can be performed upon him without giving him the
least pain. Many pains and diseases may be entirely
removed from the system, and others greatly modified
by the magnetic process, and, what is equally wonder-
ful, all the mental manifestations and actions of the
nervous system, common to the wakeful state, can be
brought forth from the somnambu1ic person by mere
contact, and frequently without contact of the ope-
rator.
When the subject is restored to his natural condition,
he remembers nothing that transpired during his som·
nambulic existence, unless made to do so by the ope-
rator.
2. Human magnetism is a science so remarkable in
its nature, and one which gives rise to so many won-
derful phenomena, it is by no means astonishing that
ignorance, self-interest, and prejudice, with all their
malign powers, should at once be arrayed against it.
Persons of narrow contracted views, and of very
limited information, cannot be expected at once to
enter into full belief of any wonderful discovery. Such
persons generally hesitate in giving a favourable opi-
nion, or perhaps virulently oppose and ridicule. Bet-
tet· things, however, might reasonably be looked for
from those whose circumstances have placed them
within the reach of scientific knowledge. But his-
tory shows too clearly that, not by the unlettered
merely, but by those who boast of their high attain-
ments in knowledge, every important discovery, whe-
ther in the arts or sciences, has been opposed in its
8 HUMAN MAGNETISM
infancy. The useful discovery made by Galileo fur-
nishes a striking illustration of this fact. Some mar-
velled, some ridiculed, while others vehemently op-
posed, with a determination to overthrow his whole
system of astronomy. Galileo himself speaks very
humorously of this opposition in a letter which he
wrote to Keplar, one of his particular friends. "Oh!
my dear Keplar," says he, "how I do wish that we
could have one hearty laugh. Here, at Padua, is the
principal professor of philosophy, whom I have re-
peatedly and urgently requested to look at the moon
and planets through my glass, which he pertinaciously
refuses to do. Why are you not here? What shouts
of laughter we shoulu have at this glorious folly! And
to hear the philosopher labouring before the grand
duke, with logical arguments, as if with magical in-
cantations, to draw the new planets out of the skies."
"Professor Pisa," he says, "made many speeches to
prove that facts are not facts." This opposition in-
creased against Galileo, and at length was so strong
that he was forced to the only alternative, recant what
he had published, and bury the subject in pt·ofound
silence, or to suffer the ignominious fate of pretenders
to miracles. Newton, at a later period, as a reward
of his toils and midnight observations, received the
calumniations of the i~n01·ant, and the ridicule and
contempt of the learned. 1-Iis principles were almost
unanimously rejected, and even at a period of forty
years after his death, according to Voltaire, he had not
twenty followers. 1-Iarvey, for having malle the useful
discovery of the circulation of the blood, had the whole
medical faculty, with all their eloquence and zeal, arrayed
against him, to exclude him from society, as a disturber
of their peace. He lost his practice as a physician, and
was even ridiculed by many who had previously been
his preten.ued friends. The immortal Bacon, after long
and labor10us research after truth, shared a similar fate,
as a remuneration for his important discoveries. Thf}
IN ITS INF.A.NCY. 9
distinguished Doctors Gall and Spurzheim, were treated
as deluded enthtlsiasts, or visionary aspirants after fame.
They themselves were stigmatized with the insulting
epithet of "head-feelers," and the science which they
advocated, with the scandal of "bumpology." And
many of the distinguished and pious advocates of
geology were branded with infidelity, and scourged
with aU the lashes of opprobrium that envy,jealousy,
prejudice and bigotry, could inflict upon them. Such
has been the fate of all who have advocated the princi-
ples of any newly discovered science.
3. The grounds of this opposition are as unreasona-
ble as the opposition itself. Some oppose through an
apprehension that their own interests will be injuriously
affected if the discovery be true; and rather than sus-
tain a small personal loss, they vehemently array their
opposition, even though the discovery might confer
innumerable blessings upon millions of the human
family. Hence they stand ready to seize upon every
weapon that they can pos~ibly wield to their own ad-
vantage. The least failure in experiments, with them,
is sufficient to annihilate fifty well established facts. It
has generally been as it was with Fulton, when he
launched his boat and applied the steam, in high hope
of stemming the current at the rate of six miles an
hour. A slight brealtage in the machinery caused the
boat to stop. This being taken for a total failure, pro-
duced a loud burst of laughter among the gazing mul-
titude, and the contemptuous and self-consoling sneers
of many whose interests were in any way endangered
by his success. One single failure in experjments to
illustrate an unimportant principle, often, under such
circumstances, has more force than fifty like failures
would have, were the persons desirous of success. But
an hundred failures in attempting to remove disease by
calomel, afford no proof against its healing properties.
Some oppose because they anticipate great moral
injury from the discovery, if it be true. This objec-
tion is made by those who have not investigated the
,2W.
10 HU~!AN MAGNETISM
facts, and, whether it be offered from conscientious
motives or not, it is too evidently founded in con-
tracted views of the legitimate result of truth, as well
as of true policy. God is just as much the author of
nature, as of the Bible. The two revelations, therefore,
must perfectly harmonize: and, as both are intended
for the happiness of man, no discovery of truth in
either, can possibly have an immoral or injurious ten-
dency. Let facts every where be facts, and no danger
is to be apprehended in discoveries of any kind. But
if this class of objectors be conscientious, true policy
ought to prompt them at once to careful and thorough
investigation, that they might be prepared to counter-
act the evil which they apprehend. Every important
discovery may be employed as an agent for evil de-
signs, nearly, if not quite to the same extent that it
may be applied to good purposes. All useful dis-
coveries have thus been employed, and we may expect
the same course will be pursued until the disposition of
nun be changed. Let these apprehenders of evil,
therefore, instead of spending their time in opposing,
seek a thorough knowledge of the facts, that they may
turn them to good account.
Some object to any wonderful discovery merely be-
cause it is mysterious. Every thing in nature is a
mystery till understood, and though all natural pheno-
tnena are intelligible, yet for want of sufficient under-
standing, a thousand facts come under our daily obser-
vation which we believe, but which to us, are per-
fectly mysterious. \Vho can explain how the mind
takes cognizance of things through the senses? How
it is that food taken into the stomach is formed into
skin, muscles, nails, hair, &c.? How the same sub-
stance, when eaten by the quldruped, forms horns and
hoofs, and when eaten by the bird, produces the bill
and claws? If, therefore, we cannot explain the most
common phenomena around us, why get up the cry
of mystery when a new discovery is made? For
one person to identify himself with another, so as to
IN ITS INFANCY. 11
make his own senses common to both systems, to bring
the other's body under the control of his own will, and
to enable his spirit, with the rapidity of thought, to
visit places thousands of miles off, and again to return
to its old habitation to communicate the desired infor-
mation from those places, are remarkable facts; but
merely so because we have not familiar·ized ourselves
with the principles upon which they depend.
Much of the opposition to useful sciences in their
infancy, ori~d nates in early prejudice, or preconceived
opinions. There is generally a dislike to give up long
cherished principles, whether right or wrong; or to
yield opinions which are thought to be well grounded.
Any discovery, therefore, which infringes in the least
upon these principles or opinions is, of course, re-
jected at once; and generally, just in proportion to the
opposition felt, there is an apathy or unwillingness to
investigate the truth of the discovery: as in the time
of Galileo, when the people absolutely refused to enter
his house to see the satellites of Juplter. With such dis-
positions, it is difficult for their opposition to be allayed.
They call for proof, that they may be convinced, and
then paralyze their own senses against evidence. With
all the bitterness of their hearts they challenge a trial
upon themselves, and if you fail, even under the most
unfavourable circumstances, to restore to them an arm
that has been amputated for ten years, they pertina-
ciously refuse to yield the least credence, and unhesi-
tatingly attribute all the phenomena of the science to
the agency of some demoniacal spirit, merely because
they, forsooth, cannot understand them. A few of
this class are honest enough, like Thomas of old, after
he had thrust his finger into the side of his Saviour, to
yield to the force of evidence, and acknowledge their
error; while the majority of them continue to cherish
their hardness of heart, and call for more proof. Fur-
nish them with evidence, and they will brand you
with "collusion:'' and it is really amusing to see with
what keenness some of these self-deemetl philosophers
12 llUliAN .MA.GNETIS~!
watch every experiment, as if theia· salvation dependctt
upon their detecting some deception, where they have
every possible reason to believe none was intended.
Were one fourth the time spent in careful and candid
search after facts, that is generally spent in oppositio.n
and ridicule, newly discovered truths would not, as as
common, have to force themselves into credence, and
the advancement of the human intellect would evi-
dently be far greater than it now is. Such, then, has
been the disposition of man to oppose the sciences in
their infancy; and we may naturally conclude that what
has been, will be again, and that the science of human
magnetism will meet wilh much opposition before it
shall be universally received. "To calumniate is the
occupation of the many, and to be calumniated is the
privilege of the few."
CHAPTER II.
A BRIEF HISTORICAL VIEW OF HUMAN MAGNETISM.
IN tracing the history of human magnetism as a
science, I cannot venture far into the past, since some
of its fundamental principles have hitherto, so far as
my knowledge extends, been undiscovered, and the
nature of many of its most important phenomena has
not be~n understood, even by those who have been
most successful in developing them. I shall, therefore,
attempt only to point out in brief what has been known,
taught, and practised of the science, in different ages,
and in different parts of the world.
1. A number of important historical facts connected
with this subject, are to be found in the Bible; but as
I consider a scriptural view of this subject a matter of
IN ITS INFANCY. 13
great importance, and one which requires separate con-
sideration, I shall, for the present, direct my attention
to other sources for information.
2. Retracing the history of man to a period nearly
four thousand years ago, we find a faculty of medicine
in Egypt, removing pains and diseases from others,
by the application of a power which they possessed,
but of the nature of which they were entirely ignorant.
By the use of certain physical operations, such as a
touch with the finger or toe, certain passes or waves
with the hand ovet· the person or part affected, and the
like simple means, they were enabled to perform a vari-
ety of interesting cures, which they could not effect by
the application of ordinary medicines. This was carried
by them to a greater extent than it now is, in any part of
the world. The priesthood of Egypt, also, were long
famed for their knowledge of the healing art. Their
deities they considered as endued with a healing influ-
ence, and from them they received power. They ex-
erted the magnetic influence with great skill and suc-
cess. They reduced the art to a system, and prac-
tised it with all the solemnity of a religious rite, and
under the immediate supervision of their deities. Ac-
cording to Prosper Alpinus, they treated their patients
by certain mysterious mannal operations, or imposition
of hands, often enveloping them with the skins of
animals, which they deemed sacred, and carried them
into the consecrated shrines, and olher holy places, to
be visitetl with dreams and pretended inspirations,
which were supposed to come upon them through the
agency of Heaven: and there, too, they had imparted
to them a foresight of the results of their complaints,
and disclosed to them the medicines and mode of treat-
ment by which they \Vere to be cured.
3. Alike faculty of meuicine in Chaldea, practised the
healing art in the same manner, and with similar suc-
cess. The dignitaries of the temple were the principal
members of this faculty, and performed th-eir cure~
'''ith great solemnity,
14 HU~IAN !tiA.GNETIS~!
4. The Psylli, a people of Lybia, in the north.east part
of Assyria, are said to have performed great cures by
personal contact. They stretched their bodies upon
those of the sick, and sometimes administered water
impregnated with saliva from their own mouths; by
which means they effected the recovery of many.
They were very successful by similat· means, in curing
the venomous bite of serpents.
5. The ancient Gt·eeks, also, were famous for their
mysterious practices in the curing of diseases, and for
various other purposes. Many of their ceremonies
at the cave of Trophonius, and at the shrine of
£sculapius, were mere exhibitions of that power
which we now denominate the magnetic power.
They invoked and received, in the temples of their
gods, vague and equivocal communications respecting
the healing of the sick, and other events, and per-
formed many wonderful cures by the magnetic prac-
tice. The far-famed oracles at Delphi and Dodona,
furnish us with striking exhibitions of the wonderful
developments of this mysterious power. Through
dreams nnd visions, and the inhaling of the "prophetic
vapour that proceeded up from the earth," those who
officiated in the temples were frequently enabled to
point out the fates of individuals and of nations, to
impose upon the credulity of princes and people, and
thus to amass to themsehres their millions of gold.
According to Plutarch, Pyrrhus, the king of Epirus,
a few centuries before the Christian era, practised the
magnetic art, in removing a variety of diseases. Dis-
eases of the spleen he cured by placing his hand over
the region of the viscu~. Such were the important
cures which he effected by his mysterious practice that
he was held in the highest repute among the people.
Even the touch of his gt·eat toe was generally believed
to be attended with great healing virtue.
The Asclepiades, descendants of lEsculapius, for a
long time practised the mysterious art of healing, which
was attended with much success. They revealed the
JN ITS JNFANCY. 15
secrets to but few, and those few they swore by
JEsculapius, Hygiea, and others, not to divulge them
to strangers. At length, however, information upon
the subject spread over Greece, and the art was more
generally practised.
Erasistratus of Stagira, who flourished about four
hundred years before Christ, and who immortalized
his name by discoveries in anatomy and the nervous
system, reduced his practice of medicine to the fol-
lowing general principle :-that man inhales in respira-
tion a spiritual substance which passes from the lungs
into the arteries, where it becomes the vital principle
of the human system. As long as this spirit moves
about regularly, and in due proportion, persons are
healthy and strong, but when it is impeded or made
irregular, then debility, fevers, maladies, &c. are the
result. He rejected altogether cathartics, and blood-
letting, and prescribed dieting, tepid bathing, exer-
cise, and friction with the hands. This celebrated phy-
sician, like many others, in his extensive observations
erred in respect to the nature of the "vital substance,"
but in most respects conformed rigidly to the true
principles of human magnetism, and consequently was
remarkably successful in his practice.
6. Nor were the principles of human magnetism en-
tirely unknown to the Romans. They believed in the
salutary influence of personal contact with the sick,
and practised, to a considerable extent, the curing of
diseases by manual operations. Pliny, a distinguished
naturalist of the first century, and one of the most en-
lightened of his age, contended for the principle that
healing virtues were imparted from one to another by
personal contact, and through the medium of the ima-
gination. According to Celsus, a celebrated physician
whose authority even Doctor Cullen, with all his pre-
judice against ancient authority, admits to be very
good, Asclepiades actually soothed and modified the
ravings of the insane by manual operations, and when
he continued this farther he produ~ed "somnambulence
bordering on lethargy." In many cases he succeeded
16 HUMAN MAGNETISM
in curing the insane merely by passes, touches, and
friction with the hanus. Asclepiades was the first to
bring the art of medicine into reputation among the
Romans, and, according to Pliny, he was peculiarly
successful. On one orcasion, when passing hy a fune-
ral train, he saw that the body conveyed to the funeral
pile 'vas not dead. Ile applied his l•eal ing powers,
and manual operations, and soon succeeded in restoring
him to life, to the great surprise of the by-standers.
This cure and others of similar character, gave him
much celebrity among the people, and enabled him
to make an extensive application of those means which
are now only a part of the magnetic practice of medi-
cine. Vespasian, a king of the first cenwry, is said to
have been possessed of great healing properties, so that
he could remove paralysis by the touch of his imperial
hand, and restore the blind to sight by smearing their
cheeks and eyes with his saliva.
7. Crelius Aurelianus, a native of Sicca, in Numidia, a
writer of the third century, and who was a distinguished
physician, and profound scholar, prescribed friction with
the hancl for pleurisy, and other tliseases, and pointed
out the particular mode in which it should be per-
formed. For "epilepsy the head and forehead must
be chafed, then the operator's hand must be carried
gently over the neck and Losom, and at other times
the extremities of the hands and feet of the patient
are to be grasped, that the cure may be effected by the
very act of holding the limbs." For the hydrophobia,
he prescribed "friction" with ''relaxing remed ies."
8. Nor were the Germans, at a later period, a whit be-
hind others in the practice of the mystical arts. Thev
haye long ~pplied the mystic power in removing of
patns ~n~ d1seases fro~ the. human sys~em, in giving
prescnpt10ns for the s1ck-1n communmg with their
distant friends, and the departed spirits-and in dis-
covering hidden riches. Nor was this confined to the
priesthood, or medical faculty ;-the power was exer-
cised by the people quite extensively. To these facts
many of the German writers give their testimony.
IN ITS INFANCY. 17
9. For a number of centuries past, the existence
of this mystic power has been warmly advocated by
many of the learned in various parts of Europe. In
the fifteenth century Pomponatius, the most noted
physician of his age, advocated the doctrine that some
had the power to cure diseases by remec.Jiate emanation
from their bodies through personal contact with the
diseased, also that the physician could, by his own
will, convey a valuable curative influence through the
imagination of the patient without contact.
In the sixteenth century, the talented Agrippa of
Cologne, and the famous Paracelsus, who was an in-
defatigable student of nature, supported, with great
warmth, the same doctrine. At a later period, the
celebrated Bacon, \Vhose authority of itself ought to
subdue the strongest prejudices, gave his sanction to
the reality of" ani mal magnetism." Van Ilel met, who
was one of the most distinguished physicians of his
day, though somewhat impulsive and eccentric, treats
the subject with much interest. "Magnetism," says
he," is a universal agent, and only novel in its appli-
cation, and paradoxical to those who ridicule every
thing they do not understand, and attribute to Satan
what they cannot comprehend. \Ve can attach to a
body the virtues we possess, communicate to it certain
properties, and use it as the immediate means to ope-
rate salutary effects. There exists in man a certain
energy which can act beyond his own person, accord-
ing to his own will or imagination, and impart virtues
and exercise a durable influence, even on ciistant ob-
jects." I-fe also advocated the improvement of OUI'
intellcctual powers by somnambulism. Unfortunately
this celebrated physician incuned the enmity of a
bigoted priesthood, and fell unrler the ban of the
church, and the persecution of the inqui~ition, by
curing diseases with friction, and other forms of mag-
netic operations. Numerous other facts might be ad-
duced, in addition to the above, were it necessary, to
show that human magnetism is not entirely of recent
3
18 RUMAN MAG~ETISM
origin; that the existence of this mysterious influence
or power has been believed in, and that the magnetic
processes have been used for many salutary purposes
during several thousand years.
10. Hence, from these facts, we can see in what light
to regard the far-famed ].\Tesmer, to whom the discovery
of the science is often attributed. He is by no means
entitled to the honour of the discovery, although he ex-
erted the magnetic power more extensively and suc-
cessfully than any other single individual before him,
of whom we have any knowledge. A brief history
of his magnetical career may, perhaps, be interesting,
ano throw farther light upon the subject under conside-
ration. lie was a German by birth, and educated to the
profession of medicine; a man of more than ordinary
genius, and respectable attainments; but from an early
age was quite impulsive, eccentric and visionary. His
course was bold and clari ng. With well devised plans
he pursued his way independently, and with reckless
determination, sought only to gt·atify his own selfish
and unprincipled ambition. Not satisfied to follow in
the footsteps of his fnthe•· and others who had been
practising the mystical art, in the cure of diseases, and
attributing all their success to a divine agency, Mes-
mer advocated the uoctrinc that the heavenly bodies
were inti mate]y concerned both in the production and
cut·e of human maladies. "I had maintained,'' says
he, "that the heavenly spheres possessed a direct
power on the constituent principles of animated bodies,
particularly on the nen·ous system, by the agency of an
all-pervading fluid. I determined this action by the
intertlion. and remission of the properties of matter and
organized bodies; such as gravity, cohc"ion, electricity,
and irritability. I supported this doctrine by various
examples of periodical revolutions: and I named that
property of animal matter which renders it susceptible
to the action of the celestial and earth] y bodies, animal
magnetism." In 1774, he received from Father Bell,
who was then a professor of astronomy in an instilu-
IN ITS INFANCY. 19
tion at Vienna, a full account of the cure of rheuma-
tism which he had performed upon himself by a mag-
netic process. This information, perfectly congenial
with the views of Mesmer, aroused all his energies
and gave direction to his future course. He imme-
diately procured him numerous magnets of various
sizes and forms, and operated at first gratuitously upon
all who desired his medical aid. He distributed his
magnets fat· and near lo multitudes of persons who
were willing to use them, so that he might carry on
his experiments by wholesale. His fame increased and
in a few years he became the notorious magnetizer.
But at length, however, he brought upon himself what
he justly Jeserved,~the contempt of the people. He
became a mark of ridicule, which increased to per-
secution; to escape which, he l'etired from his native
country to Switzerland, and afterwards to Suabia, in
each of which places he made somewhat of a display.
In J778, he moved to Paris, where he found a more
congenial atmosphere for his magnetic developments.
He there published an able essay in defence of his
doctrines, and in a short time his reputation be-
came so imposing that he had almost perfect control
over the minds of the people. A proposition was
made him by the minister of the French court to en-
dow him with an annual pension of $5,625, and, in
hand, the additional sum of $56,250, accompanied with
the inr;;ignia of the order of St. Michael, if he would
reveal his mystical science to the medical faculty. Thjs
offer he rejected without hesitation, as a pittance too
insignificant, and determined npon prosecuting busi-
ness upon his own account. He selected for the pur-
pose one of the most maj!;nificen t eel ifices in the most
fashionable part of the city, and furnished it with the
richest furniture that Paris could afford. His gardens
were arran~ed with much taste, and beautifully orna-
mented with marble walks, flowers, orange-trees, sta-
tuary, urns, basins, and crystal fountains. He secured
some of the best musicians, and for aids, some of the
20 llU?tiAN MAGNETISM
handsomest youths of Paris. These he decorated in
rich costume, and robed himself in fanciful oriental
sumptuousness, to give him an antique and command-
ing appearance. 1\Iost of his patients were ladies from
the most fashionable circles, and who kept themselves
arrayed in Parisian elegance. \Vith all this array,
and \Vith such subjects, the results of his operations, as
might have been expected, \vere powerful. General
excitement prevailed throughout the country, and, at
length, it was found necessary that commiltees should
be officially appointed to investigate the subject.
...'\.ccordingly, in 17S1
1, two were appointed. one by
the Royal Society of Physicians, and another by the
Royal Academy of Sciences. Their reports were, of
cotJt'se, unfavourable, they being persons predetermined
to condemn l\Iesmet· as guilty, and annihilate, if possi-
ble, the system which he practised. .1\Iany facts, how-
ever, they were obliged to admit, although they could
not account for them. But their decision, in a mea-
sure, checked the progress of the science. lVfesmer
aftenvards became vea y unpopular, and retired again
to Switzerland, where he died in 1815.
Another committee was afterwards appointed, which,
after the lnpse of six years' investigation, reported in
some respects quite favourable, but in general they
fell far short of the truth. Mesmer, in consequence of
his reckless course, brought contempt upon the doc-
trines which he atlvocated, and in ridicule, the system
which he practised was denominated "l\Iesmer·ism."
But he was not the "inventor of the processes and
devices he so successfully practised, or the original
author of the doctrines he inculcatcd." H c endea-
voured to throw around the whole subject as much
mystery as possible, and to palm himself upon the
people as a wonderful diseovet·cr· of mysteries, which
he was unwilling, for love or money, to reveal. His
name should, therefore, never be associated with the
science, except in the light in which a distinauished
uTiter of Louisville has placed it," a daring impostor."
IN ITS INFANCY. 21
11. But, notwithstanding the imposition of Mesmer,
the unfavourable reports of the committees, and the
general contempt of the people, truth was bound to
prevail. The subject was of too thrilling importance
to sink into oblivion. It soon merged from the com-
parative obscurity into which it fe1l, and in the course
of fifteen or twenty years, many of the talented be-
came its firm and decided advocates. The illustrious
Marquis de Puysegu•·, Doctor Wicnholt of Bremen,
Professor Rieser of Leipsic, others at Berlin, and also
the celebrated Cuvier and La Place became its firm
supporters; and a number of journals in Germany and
France, were devoted to the cause. The subject be-
came of such general interest that three distinct schools
\\·ere established to investigate and propagate its prin-
cipies: one by the followers of l\fesmer, who adopted
his system and exhibited the phenomena hy physical
agency alone,-friction, passes, touches, waves, and
gr·asps by the hands. These were called the genuine
1\'Iesmerisls. The second school operated entirely by
faith and volition, and were termed spit·ilttrtlists. All
physical means were rejected, or pronounced accessary
only. By mere resolution m· volition they operated
upon their subjects, and consequently could effect
their purpose at a distance as well as in contact. Che-
valier de Barba1·in founded this school ~t Lyons. He
had many partisans in France, but flourishcu principally
in Sweden and Germany. The third school was
founded at Strasburg by ~farquis de Puysegur. He
took the middle gt·ouncl, and combined the means of
the other two. The 'toill he regarded the principal
agent, but in most cases used other means, such as
passes, grasps, touches, friction, the eye, and any other
cause, which would assist in producing the desirec.J
effect. His disciples were guided by observation, and
called themselves ex perimentalists. In these schools
the subject was carefully investigated, facts were dis-
covered and many important principles of the science
established. Its ad vocales have been rapidly incrcas-
3*
22 HUMAN :MAGNETISM
tng, a number of interesting works have been pub-
lished in its defence, and, at present, many eminent
physicians, philosophers, naturalists, anti indeed persons
of all professions, in various parts of Europe and Ame-
rica, are not onIy firm believers in the science, but are
applyin2; it to useful purposes. ·
12. Nor is the magnetic power limited in its extent;
it has been exerted for various purposes in all ages
of the world, both by man and by the lower order of
animals.
The American Indians, so long as we have any
knowledge of their history, have used, and do still use
it, not only for removing pains and diseases from the
body, bnt for various other purposes. The facility
with which many of them sooth the most excruciating
pains, by what is usually called" pow-wowing," is too
well known to require comment. Diseases of various
kinds are readily driven from the system by them in
the use of physical operations alone.
1-Iundreds of old men and women are to be found
throughout the country, who are quite noted for their
power to sooth and quiet down the pains of burns,
scalds, and bruises, and to cure the tooth-ache by manual
operations, connected, perhaps, with some mystical
signs, saying over a certain form of words, t·epeati ng
scripture, or enjoining secrecy. As useless as this ad-
ditional set of means may be, to produce the desired
effect, the power exerted is no othet· than the human
magnetic power, and the results are the sa me. In fact,
every person is in the daily exercise of this power.
The little child accidentally falls upon the floor and
bruises its head, the mother immediately runs to its
relief, catches it in her arms, and instinctively rubs her
hand over the part affected, and sooths clown the pain.
If one injures himself by a bruise, or feels pain about
his system, his hand involuntarily seeks to quiet the
pain by friction; and if one wishes to call into vigorous
exercise his powers of memory, how natural it is for
him to place his hand upon his forehead, ancl thus to
IN ITS INFANCY. 23
excite his organs of memory. In all our daily inter-
course we are exerting, on a limited scale, the magnetic
influence over each other. If one wishes to excite ten-
der feelings in the breast of another, he takes him by
the hand, and with a gentle squeeze or shake, and a
mild look of the eye, without difficulty effects his object:
or if he wishes to move him to any undertaking, to
restrain him from any course of conduct, or to mould
his character in any particular manner, he makes use
of certain appropriate means through which he exerts
over him the magnetic influence. This is the same
power by which we control the brute creation. To gen-
tle and tame down a wild, fractious horse, we rub the
hand over his head and neck, or gently pat him upon
the shoulder. To quell the ferocity of a dog, cat, lion,
or any wild animal, we stand in a commanding posture,
and look him steadily and firm1y in the eye. He soon
quails under the magnetic po\ver, sneaks off, and rids
us of apprehended danger. The same power, too, we
often see exerted, even more extensively, by the lower
animals over each other. The cat fixes her keen, pene-
trating eye steadily upon a bird, gently waves her tail,
in anticipation of a certain object, and soon the bird is
seen hovering around with hideous noise, unable to
resist the spell, and at length to fall a prey to the de-
vouring appetite of its charmer. The power of the
serpent's charm over other animals is well known.
Birds, quadrupeds, and even children have been made
their resistless prey, under the control of the magnetic
power. Such we find to be the influence which every
person exerts over others more or less extensively:
and that this power, when rightly understood, may be
exerted more successfully, and for many useful pur-
poses, none but the most stupid can doubt.
( 24 )
CHAPTER III.
THE DIFFERENT THEORIES 'VHICH HAVE DEEN ADOPT-
ED ARE INSUFFICIENT TO ACCOUNT .FOR THE HUMAN
MAGNETIC PHENOMENA.
TnE fact that susceptibility to magnetism, anu the
power to exert this influence over others, are uni\•er-
sal attributes of man, proves most positively, that these
attributes are subject to some p;enerallaw of nature, that
they belong to some science, and that that science is
founded in truth. Such has been the belief, fo1· a num-
ber of years past, of many of the most talented, who
have applied themselves diligently to ascertain the prin-
ciples of the science, and who have been led to the
adoption of a number of distinct theories to explain
anti illustrate the va1·ious interesting phenomena which
they were enabled to develope.
Some of these theories I »hall now notice for the
p~rpose of a ready belief in the true principles of the
sciCnce.
1. For many centuries, and until a very recent period
in the history of man, not only the power exerted in
the pt·oduction of the magnetic phenomena, but even
the phenomena themseh·cs, were invariably re,.arde<.l
as the peculiar gifts of an overruling Providence.
Among the heathen they were the gifts of their idols;
and among the more enlightened, the blessings of fiea-
ven, bestowed upon but few, and that for special pur-
poses. And even at the present day many are to be
found, among the ignorant and superstitious, who in-
dulge in the same belief.
2. Another view of the subject, somewhat analogou~
to this, and equally erroneous, was advocated by the
Asclepiades, who practised the magnetic art among the
IN ITS INFANCY. 25
ancient Greeks. They contended that the mystical
knowledge was hereditary, and that parents imparted
it to their ofi'ipring as a kind of family prerogative, or
legacy. Galen, in his writings, supported this opinion.
After this, the power was imparted to strangers by a
formal initiation into the secrets of the mystic art.
Hence Aristotle, at a later period, remarks, that "the
knowledge of mysteries \vas regarded, for a long time,
as an attribute of the Asclepiades." The same cus-
tom of enjoining secrecy, was established by the Alex-
andrian school, partly through belief of its being essen-
tial to the production of the phenomena, and partly to
give character to their practice.
3. A belief somewhat similar to the above prevailed
in the fifteenth century,-that certain persons exerted
this power over others more or Jess extensi\·ely, by
"an immediate emanation from the body." This
was warmly advocated by Pomponatius and others.
These views have now fallen into disrepute, except
among a few of the more superstitious.
4. Not a few distinguished physiolo~?;ists, to account
for the magnetic phenomena, have adopted the theory
that a" subtle fluid is secreted, or in some way formed
by the brain, from the arterial blood with which that
organ is copiously supplied, and, when thus produced,
that it is made to pass, in magnetizing, from one brain
to another, according to the different amounts of it pos-
sessed by different persons." This is quite an inge-
nious hypothesis, and we11 calculated to amuse, but far
from being sufficient to account for· many of the most
interesting phenomena of the science, and easily proved
to be without the least foundation. Those who adopted
it, consic.Jered it, of course, the most reasonable, but
those who now advocate it, are justly chargeable with
·roily. Numerous facts might be adduced to show its
inconsistency, but I shall mention but one, deeming
that, of itself, sufficient for the purpose.
Having put a person into what has been denominated
the "magnetic state," his head may be restored to its
26 BU.l!AN MAGNETISM
nalut·al condition, while all the b·tlance of his system
remains unchanged. In this condition, he can converse,
laugh, cry, or exercise any other faculties of the mind
without the least inconvenience, but his \viii has no con-
trol over any part of his body below the head. Now
if the fluid is made to pass by the brain, why not do it
in this condition of the person, so as to enable him to
raise the different members of his body? The same
fact holds true nni \'ersally with the person operated
upon; any part of his system can be taken from under
the control of his will, by the operator, and again re-
stored in a] most a moment's time, which could not be
true if the above hypothesis were true. The same
fact is farther illustrated by scvering the heads of some
of the lower- order-s of animals, as the turtle, for instance;
the body exhibits life for some length of time after-
wards: but if this agent were elaborated in the brain,
the body would instantaneously die. This hypothesis,
therefore, will not answer the purpose.
5. Others have supposed that there is a "subtle, in-
tervening aura or ether, which is in actual contact with
the brain of each person, and whose presence is dis-
coverable only by its effects;" that this aura "exists
formerly in the atmosphere;" and that it "is univer-
sal in the planetary system." Such an aura might
serve as a medium of communication for one mind to
act upon othet· minds, and account for some of the psy..
chological phenomena de\'eloped in human magnetism;
but it is utlerly impossible, by this, to explain the won-
derful phenomena of magnetic attraction, paralyzation,
and many others equally intet'esting. And that theory
cannot possibly be founded in truth, which fails in the
most important part of that for which it was intended.
6. The theory most commonly adopted at present,
I believe, is, that electricity is the agent concerned in
the development of the human magnetic phenomena,
Etnd that ''this is excited upon the operator, and made to
accumulate upon the subject in greater or less quantities,
by which all the pheoom~na are prpd4~eq," This view
lN ITS INFANCY. 27
of the subject clearly accounts for many of the results
of the human magnetic power; but it is far from being
~ufficient in all cases, and is d1rectly opposed to many
important facts.
(1.) If the subject is filled with electricity, he is less
susceptible to the " magnetic state."
(2.) If the subject be placed on an isolated stool, it
is much more difficult to" magnetize" him.
(3.) 'Vhen a person is put into the" magnetic state,"
his senses are entirely suspended, and his wiJl loses
control over his system.
In all these cases, if the above theory were true,
the results would be directly the opposite. The sub-
ject being filled with electricity would be far more sus-
ceptible to the magnetic phenomena-being placed on
a glass stool would require a much less quantity of the
fluid to produce the effcct_._the medium between the
mind and body being increased, the will would have
greater control ove1· the system, and the senses would
bear impressions to the mincl with greater facility and
distinctness. These facts, I think, are sufficient to
show that the theory is not correct.
7. Another theory of a recent date has been adopted
by a respectable number, and requires some notice. l\Ir.
Laroy Sunderland, of New York, has very ably and
learnedly advocated it in a work which he has pub-
lished. He advocates the principle that there is in the
human system "a distinct class of organs," which he
denominates the "sympathetic and antipathetic nerves;"
that these bein~ operated upon by certain means, "are
heightened, while the other nerves are st~spentled," and
give rise to the phenomena which he classes under the
head of" pathetism." In respect to this theory, it re-
quires no great depth of thought to ascertain the fact
that the whole premises are assttrned. No discovery of
any such ner\'CS is pretended: the only evidence to
prove their existence, is a certain class of phenomena
which are supposed to be the results of such a nervous
~ystem; but all these phenomena may be as clearly
28 Ht:)IAN liAGNETlSM
and more satisfactorily accounted for upon other prin-
ciples, and that, too, without the necessity of assuming
the existence of what can neither be proved nor dis-
proved, by observation or actual experiments. The
theory, therefore, for want of better evidence to sus-
tain it, cannot possibly stand. Bnt suppose such a
nervous system to exist, what is their specific office?
-to form a conductor of impressions between the mind
and the body?-to enable the will to communicate
motion to the different members, or receive impt·essions
from the external world? These offices arc all sup-
plied without this new set of organs. Perhaps it may
be said that "they form a link between the present
system of nerves an<l the external world." Sti1l we are
Jeft in difficulty; for we are under the necessity of
supposing another medium between the "syrnp:1thetic
net·ves" and the mind, and between the nerves and the
external world: these "sympathetic nerves'' must
come in contact with every object from which an im-
pression is received, or else there must be some medium
between them and the objects through which impres-
sions may be borne. The saitl nerves, if in existence,
must be a part of the organized body, and consequently
cannot pass out of that body into another. But it is
found that the agent concerned in the production of
the human magnetic phenomena, is capable of being
transferred from one body to another. That agent
can, evidently, be no part of the organized body, but
the sympathetic nerves are. This theory, therefore,
fails to solve the difficulties, and leaves us just as much
in the dark as befor·e, in respect to the magnetic phe-
nomena. Hence we are, in justice, bound to reject it,
and look for a better.
8. It may not be out of place here, perhaps, to notice
one other method adopted to account for the pheno-
mena of human magnetism. l\fany are disposed to
consider the whole as the resu It of imagination. In
reply to this, I would inquire, in the first place, what is
imagination? But very few probably who are in the
IN ITS JN:F.ANCY. 29
habit of using this word are able to give it an intelli-
gible meaning. There is no such distinct faculty of
the mind as imagination. Philosophically considered,
imagination is the mere result of a certain condition of
a part or of the whole of the brain, just as obviously
so as the solution of any mathematical problem. If this
be the meaning as used by those who attribute to it
the magnetic results, then they approximate some-
what towards the truth; still they leave us in doubt by
a view of the subject far too limited. But it is pre-
sumed that not one in a hundred of them use the
word in this sense. The greater part of its employers
attach to it no delioite meaning, unless they imply by
it a delusion, a whim, a mental phantasm, or something
else equa]Jy undefinable. But if such be the case, how
can we account for the same results, when produceu in
little children of one and two years of age? How
can we account for the same or similar effects when
produced by :r cat or a serpent upon other animals?
And how can we explain the fact of subjects, while bu-
sily engaged in conversation with persons in one room,
being put into the somnambulic state by a person in
nnother room, through the partition, and at the same
time unconscious of any such design towards them?
Such facts ought to be sufficient to stop the mouths of
those who would regard as a mere whim the most im-
portant results ever yet effected either in the mental
or physical economy.
The above-mentioned theories we find insufficient to
solve the difficulties attending the subject under con-
sideration. Some other method, therefore, must evi-
denlly be adopted to explain its wonders. To be
told that "the subject is involved in mystery, as many
other subjects are," is a mere country school boy's
objection, implying nothing more than that we are ig-
norant of its principles. There is nothing mysterious
when perfectly known. A1l the laws of nature may
be understood. Human magnetism is founded upon a
Jaw of nature: in the light of philosophic discovery it
4
30 HUMAN MAGNETISM
is now regarded, a science; the cry of mystery therefore
in reference to its phenomena cannot satisfy the inqui-
sitive mind: and when we reflect for a moment upon
the practical utility of the science, as seen from what
it has already accomplished under the disadvantageous
circumstances which have attended it, we become at
once enthusiastic to ascertain its true principles, that
we may be enabled to direct this master engine to the
promotion of human happiness. Though not much as
yet has been accomplished still more has been effected
than was e'·er before effected in the same length of time
by any other science in its infancy. Every thing at
first in the arts and sciences is in a crude and imperfect
condition, and is of but little use in comparison to its
more full and perfect state. The art of printing, at
first, was confined within a very limited sphere, and
but few could enjoy its benefits. It struggled through
many difficullies, but at length has risen in its glory,
and is now shedding its benign influence over the
whole earth. Commerce in its infancy accomplished
but little, not daring to venture out sight of land.
For years she was impeded in her progress by many
obstacles, but she too at length has triumphantly sprea<L
her wings over oceans and seas, and, outstripping the
winds in her flight, now bids defiance to the fury of the
storms. The same has heen Lr11c of all the sciences in
their infancy. After the cl iscovcry has been made, in
every instance, years have elapsed before the obstacles
could be removed that prc\:ented its successful appli-
cation to useful purposes. What else, then, can be ex-
pected from the science of human magnetism? Hut in
this instance, however, the progress towards a complete
triumph has been more rapid than in most other cases:
and far more rapid would thi~ progress have been, had
the fundamental principles of the science been under-
stood. But these principles, l flatter myself in the
belief, are now discovered, and the science established
upon an unshaken foundation. This I shall endeavour
clearly to show to the understanding of the feeblest
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 31
intellect. In view of these facts, therefore, we have no
reason to fear or doubt the ultimate triumph of human
magnetism. It is destined to force its way into notice,
and ere long to occupy, as it justly deserves, the first
rank among those hitherto discovered. As has been
said by a bold advocate of the cause, "it is the master
element in the philosophy of man," being itself "an
exposition of the true anatomy and physiology of the
brain and nervous system." "A new and important
epoch is about to open on us, not only in philosophy
and the treatment of the nervous system," but in the
improvement of the moral and intellectual faculties.
Opposition, however, we expect. Prejudice and self-
intet·est are powerful antagonists when in the posses-
sion of the talented. Astronomy, chemistry, geology,
and phrenology have been met by hosts of the bitter-
est enemies, ridiculed, scoffed at, and contemned; but
though persecuted almost to martyrdom, they have risen
in triumph, and now, towering aloft, eagle-like, are
proudly waving their laurels of victory to the chagrin
of their inveterate, bllt vanquished foes. Such will be
the proud triumph of hurnan magnetism.
CHAPTER IV.
PRINCIPLES OF MAGNETISM OR ELECTRICITY.
HAviNG noticed, in the preceding chapters, the his-
tory of the human magnetic phenomena, and the dif-
ferent theories adopted to explain and illustrate them,
I shall now endeavour to establish what I conceive to
be the true principles upon which these phenomena
depend, and which give rise to the science of human
magnetism. The idea of human magnetism, whether
it be an appropriate name for the science or not, would
32 HUMAN MAGNETISM
seem to indicate that magnetism or electricity is the
principal agent concerned. This I shall endeavour to
prove, by a variety of facts, beyond the possibility of
a reasonable doubt. Many of the facts which I shall
adduce in support of this principle, I have ascertained
by my own observations, though they may, for aught
I know, have long since been known by others. For
many years I have been a close and careful observer
of the operations of nature, and though I have arrivcd
at some impot'tant conclusions quite the reverse of
those to which my mind had been previously directed
by the study of books; yet these conclusions arc the
simple and uniform results of numerous experiments
which it is not necessary to detail, though a few of
them I shall notice in their proper places. The sub-
ject of human magnetism I have given a thorough in·
vestigation; and having performed a l!:reat variety of
experiments upon a large number of men, women,
and children, I find no difficulty either in establishing
the principles, or in illustrating the wonders of the
science. All appear perfectly simple, and no more
matter of wonder, than hundreds of facts th:1t daily
come under our observation. -
The effects of electricity are equally visible in the
mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms. Its nature,
power, and operations are as yet but partially under·
stood, though sufficiently to enable us to account for a
variety of interesting facts which would otherwise ap-
pear wonderful and mysterious. All the crysta1liza-
tions, petrifactions, and most of the metallic veins in
the mineral kingdom, owe their origin to the moving
powers of this element. All the mineral formations,
from the pebble to the towering mountain, are solely
indebted to this agent for their solidity, which it gives
by producing in them an affinity to absorb carbon, the
only crystallizing property of matter. Those beautiful
forests and landscapes, as they are sometimes denomi-
nated, composed of oxides, and often seen in rocks
when broken open, the delightful moss, as it is called,
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 33
sometimes formed in agates and crystals, the curling
of frost in a cold winter <.lay, the branching of ice upon
the congealing water, and a variety of other similar
phenomena, are produced by the active energies of
electricity. It is the same agent that carries intelli-
gence, in the twinkling of an eye, from 'Vashington
to Baltimore,-that guides t.he wave-tossed and storm-
beaten mariner to his destined haven, by giving direc-
tion to the needle, and that lights up the heavens in
the deep darkness of midnight thunder-storms, leaping
from cloud to cloud, darting from heaven to earth, and
making \vild destructive sport of the very elements
through which it passes. This unh·ersal element,
which for centuries produced consternation to multi-
tudes of the human family, but which the genius of a
Franklin disarmed of its terror, is the same that, on a
more extensive seale, by its attractive and repulsive
energies, balances the stars in the centres of their
~ystems, that gently turns the planets, satellites, and
comets upon their axes, and around their respective
suns, and that binds to{!;ether, in one grand universal
harmony, the unnumbered systems that diversify the
empire of God.
In the vegetable kingdom, electricity is that agent
by whose plastic hand the trees, and shrubs, and moss,
and grass all receive their form and direction. It is
concerned with a11 the germinations, propagations, and
amalgamations in the vegetable ldngdom, and is abso-
lutely essential to the production, growth, and forma- ·
tion of every variety of vegetable substance. Quick-
ening its energies, it bears along up the cellular tissue
from the earth, those particles of matter \\'hich deck
the fields in lovely green and roseate hues, perfumes
the air with sweet and delicious odours, and gladdens
the hearts of mi11ions with luxuriant and inviting
fruits.-And again, diminishing its powers, it disrobes
the earth of its vernal loveliness, fills the air with
autumnal miasma, and casts a dreary mantle over all
nni mated nature.
4*
34 HUMAN 1\IAGNETISM
But let us confine our observations to a more limited
sphere, and notice a few general principles which I
shall bring to bear in the investigation of the science
of human magnetism.
' 1. All material substances in the universe possess
more or less galvanism or electricity, as really as they
possess the element of heat. Some substances contain
it in large quantities, while in others it is so sparingly
diffused as almost to elude the observations of the most
skilful experimenter.
2. As heat may remain in a passive stale, requiring
only certain peculiar circumstances to make it active,
so also electricity may exist in a passive or active state,
and when passive, it requires only a favourable com-
bination of circumstances to make it active. Thus, in
the galvanic battery, the zinc and copper plates must
be placed in a certain position to each other, and sepa-
rated by a definite liquid. Under these circumstances
the passive energies of electricity may be easily
aroused into activity, and conducted off at pleasure by
means of rods. Thus, too, in charging a battery, the
state of the atmosphere, the temperature, and the con-
dition and position of the instruments, all being favour-
able, electricity is readily excited to action. In some
substances it is more easily excited, and when excited
flows more freely than in others. Hence some sub-
stances are said to be good and some bad conductors of
electricity. The best conductors being those along
1vhich the fluid passes most freely.
3. Heat is favourable, and a certain warmth of tem-
perature is necessary to the free and easy development
of electricity. Hence, at certain times, it is more dif-
ficult to make magnets or excite electricity than at
others; and magnets are much stronger at one time
than at another. It is on this account that in cold
climates there are no thunder~storms except in the
summer, that lightning is seldom seen in cold days, and
that eruptions of volcanoes, and large fires are usually
attended with frequent and vivid forked lightning.
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 35
4. Electricity in its active state is a fluid, and may
be made to pass in currents of any size or quantity, not
only along substances themselves, but from one sub-
stance to another, and that too when at great distances
from each other, and separated by intervening objects.
The rapidity with which it thus passes from one point
to another is almost beyond calculation:
'' Nullum tempus occurret."
~'A wheel revolving with celerity sufficient to render
its spokes invisible, when illuminated by a flash of
lightning, is seen for an instant with all its spokes
distinct, as if it were in a state of absolute repose; be-
cause, however rapid the motion may be, the light has
come and already ceased before the wheel has had
time to turn through a visible space."
5. A current of electricity may be made to assume
any direction, either in straight, curved or circular lines.
Cause a current of the fluid to pass upon a rod or
conductor, it will follow that rod in the direction in
which it was caused to pass on, and continue so to do,
whether the conductor be slraight, curved, or circular.
The same directions may be given to the fluid in its
passage through the atmosphere without the conductor,
by means of attracting and repelling forces of other
currents. l-Ienee, we can easily account for all the
interesting phenomena of the aurora borealis.
6. When once the direction of a current is estab-
lished, the substance along which it passes becomes a
magnet, and will remain such permanently and perpe-
tually, unless its electric fluid be counteracted by ano-
ther current stronger than itself, or made passive by
the unfavourable circumstances in which the magnet
is placed. A current of the same force cannot change
it, as may be seen by placing two magnets of equal
strength with their hro positive ends together, both in
the same line of direction; or by causing currents of
equal force to pass on at the two ends of the same rod.
These equal currents meeting, will bound ofr together,
36 HUMAN MAGNETISM
and seel{ some object for which they have a particular
affinity. \Vhen trees, struck with 1ighlning, are shat-
tered to pieces, it is usually produced in this way, by
two antagonizing currents; the one upwards, from the
earth, and the other down wards, from a cloud.
i. There is a tendency, however, in electricity, the
same as in other fluids, to assume an equilibrium so
that the fluid will pass from a substance which is in
the positi,·e magnetic slate to one which is in the
negative."" This tendency (crolcris paribus,) will be in
proportion to the difference between the positive and
negative. lienee currents of the fluid may be directed
out of their course, or destroyed by the ncgative con-
dition of surrounding substances. lt is on this princi-
ple that lightning rods are constructed.
S. Electricity may be made to pass on and off at
any point or points of a rod or substance. In the pro-
cess of making arlificial magnets this principle is fully
illustrated. Tal{e a magnet and draw it ovet· a rocl or
piece of steel from end to end with friction, then raise
it and carry it back in a curved or circular line, and
draw it ovP.r as before. Continue this process, and
soon the rod or steel will become a magnet, \Vith its
current of electricity passing, in the direction in which
the magnet was drawn, on at one end and off at the
other. Reverse, now, the process, and make the
passes in the opposite direction, and soon a reverse
state of the ma~net will be produced. 'fhc electricity
will flow on and off at different ends from what it did
befol'e. Again, take a magnet and make the passes
from the centre or any point in the rod, towards, and
off the two ends, and soon the rod will become a mag-
net with both ends positive, and the point from which
the passes were made the negative, or with the elec-
tric currents passing from that point nnu off at the two
ends. By opposite passes, the two ends may be made
negative poles, and any point in the rod positive of
* Positive and negative I use as relative terms, meanina a greater
or less quantity of active electricily. co
IN l'rS TRUE PANOPLY. 37
both parts of the rod. Thus, the same rod may be
made a magnet with two positive, or two negative
poles. On the same principle a ring may be made a
magnet, with positive and negative poles.
9. The natural tendency of the electric fluid of a
spherical body is outward, in a direct line from the
centre, and off every imaginable point of its surface.
This may be clearly illustrated by exciting electricity
upon spherical bodies, or by passing a current of the
fluid perpendicularly upon the centre of a circular steel
plate covered with white paper upon which are strewed
some filings. The filings will arrange in Jines radi-
ating from the centre towards the exterior of the plate.
Such is the fact in case of the earth. Electricity has
a tendency to flow outward in lines from the centre of
motion, and off at every point of its surface. It is on
this account that a rod or bar of steel, standing or
hanging for a length of time perpendicularly to the
earth's centre, becomes a magnet. The fluid passes
upward, and creates a current upon the rod. The di-
rection of this current becomes established, and makes
the rod a magnet. For the same reason tools hanging
in the mechanic's shop are generally good magnets, ns
also, ft·equently, shovels and tongs, and a variety of
articles about a house, are magnets. Hence, too,
vegetables grow in that direction in preference to any
other. And the same principle may be farther illus-
trated by the following interesting experiment. Plant
seeds in the exterior of a wheel, and then put it in
motion with sufficient celerity to counteract the force
of the earth's attraction, the seeds will sprout and grow,
the roots inward, and the tops outward, in a line direct
from the centre of motion. If, now, electricity be
made to pass on the wheel at the centre of motion, it
will flow out and off in the direction in which the
plants grow.
10. Electricity will pass off from points rather than
from a plain surface, and most freely from those which
are farthest from the centre of motion. Thus, in de-
'
38 RUMAN MAGNETIS)I
veloping electricity upon cylinders of different forms,
wherever there is a point or part farther from the cen-
tre than any other, the fluid will pass otr that part: and
if the cylinuel' be elliptical, with the equator farthest
from the centre, the electricity will flow more readily
from that part than from any other. lienee, in case
of the earth, elect•·icity flows more freely from tower-
ing mountains, than from valleys or plains; also from
tall trees, than from those which at·e low. For the
same reason it passes more freely from the equator
than from any points of equal height approaching the
poles.
11. Two or more currents of electricity have a. ten-
dency to unite and form one and the same current.
Take two mngncts and place them near each other,
side by side, with the positive of the one to the nega-
tive of the other-the currents of the two passing in
opposite directions will unite, and form one continu-
ous cunent, flowing regularly round in the dir·ection
of both, off the positive of the one and on to the nega-
tive of the other. This tendency of the currents to unite,
will attract the two magnets towards each other. If
the currents arc running in the same clireclion, the two
magnets, if a short distance aport, ·will repel each other,
either by the force of opposing currents from opposite
points, or· else by reverse action in the exterior of the
main currents. But if the magnets are in contact, or
near togethe.., they will attract each other by reason of
the cur'l'ent's tendency to unite. If the currents be op-
posite, and running in the same line of direction, the
smallet· will yielu to the larger, and both take the
same direction. Hold a large magnet to a small one,
directly in the line of both cunents, but with the cur-
rents flowing in opposite directions, or with the posi-
tive of the one to the positive of the olher, and in this
position, the larger will attract the smaller magnet,
because of the tendency of its fluid to follow the best
conductor, and will keep it in its position by the
force of the larger cut'fent; but the smaller current will
I
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 39
yield to the greater, change backwards its course, and
be borne along by the greater, like the little rivulet
flowing into the river. This change in the direction
of the smaller current may be temporary, during the
lime the magnets are kept 1n that position, or penna-
nently, according to the difference or inequality of the
two currents. A very powerful current of electricity
meeting one that is very weak or small, sometimes
will instantaneously and permanently change the es-
tablished direction of the weaker current, and conse-
quently the polarity of the rod or substance along
which the current passed. It is on this principle that
electricity from a cloud occasionally destroys the power
of magnets, or changes their polarity- sometimes
deadens trees and kills animals down which it passes.
If we now combine a few of the principles which
I have stated, we shall arrive at another important
conclusion in reference to the earth. Electricity has
a tendency to pass outward in direct lines from the
centre of motion -to flow more freely from those
points the most remote-the earth being elliptical, elec-
tricity passes off more freely at the equator, and Jess
freely at each imaginary point, proceeding towards the
poles-two currents of electricity have a tendency to
unite into one, and the lesser to merge in the greater;
there must consequently be a tendency of electricity to
flow from the poles of the earth towards the equator.
Such is the fact with an elliptical cylinder, and such
appears to be the case in reference to the earth: and on
this principle may be accounted the fact, that if a rod
or bar of steel be placed in the line of that direction,
it will become a magnet in the same way as one sus- ...
penued perpendicularly to the earth, w·ith the fluiu
passing towards the equator. This all'o accounts for
the needle or magnet assuming the direction of that
line. From the foregoing principles, too, we see why
thunder anu lightning are more frequent and terrific in
mountainous regions than elsewhere.
12. A magnetized body may have its quantity of
40 HUMAN MAGNETISl\1
electricity increased or diminished, or it may be en-
tirely discharged of the active fluid, and again techarged
at pleasure. Take two pieces of steeJ, pass one over
the other from end to end, as above directed, in ma]dng
a magnet, and soon both will become magnets; conti-
nue the process, and their power will be increased.-
Reverse, now, the process, and the power will gra-
dually diminish till neither shall have the slightest ap-
pearance of magnetic pm.,rer. In this ca~e both arc
discharged of active electricity. Continue this last
process, and they will both gradually acquire magnetic
power, and soon become good magnets again; but they
will be in a reverse magnetic state, or their polarity
will be opposite to what it was at first. The same
principle is seen illustrated in the relative position of
magnets to the earth. 1\tiagnets placed in either of the
lines of direction from the earth's centre outward, or
from the poles to the equator, so that their currents
shall pass in the direction of those of the earth, will
always remain magnets, and never Jose their power
while their relative position remains unchanged. But
if these magnets be reversed, their currents of electri-
city will be in opposite <lirections to those of the earth,
and as the lesser will always yield to the greater, they
will gradually diminish till the magnets have become
discharged; and at length opposite currents will be eata-
bl ished, and the polarity of the magnets be changed.
But if magnets which have points or poles o£r which
e]ectricity may pass, be placed in any other position
than those above mentioned, they will gradually lose
theit· magnetic power and become dischargec.1 of acti vc
electricity. Hence the polarity ofmagnets depends on
their relative position lo other 1nagnets whose cw·rents of
electricity are stronger than their own, while the repulsive
and attractive powers ofmagnets depend on the direction of
their currents ofelectricity. lienee the stronger the cur-
rents of electricity, the more powerful the repulsive
and attractive forces. Hence, too, the fallacy of two
kinds of electricity, "positive and negativc," or "vitre-
ous and resinous."
IN ITS TRUE .FANOPLY. 41
13. In recharging a magnet the process may be
continued till a stronger current than it had before is
produced, and thus the magnet be made more power-
ful, provided the magnet with which it is recharged
have itself a stronger current.
14. A magnet, by being discharged and recharged
frequently, acquires susceptibility to the magnetic in-
fluence, so that after the operation has been once per-
formed, the effect can be produced with less difficulty
at another time; and this susceptibility to the influence
is increased by habit.
15. The same magnet may be discharged and re-
charged easier at one time than at another, owing to
circumstances already stated.
16. A magnet acquires power by using it to charge
and discharge others.
CHAPTER V.
THE PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN .MAGNETISM.
THE foregoin~ principles of magnetism, are all that I
deem necessary to state for present purposes. We will
now direct our attention more particularly to the sub.
ject under consideration, where, by application of these
princi pies, we shall not only be enabled to see striking
analogies between the nervous influence, electricity,
galvanism, magnetistn and human magnetism, but, that
all their phenomena are produced by one and the same
agent, brought into action by different means, and ope-
rating under different circumstances. In the animal
kingdom it is concerned in the same way and for many
of the same purposes, as in the mineral and vegetable
}{ingdoms. Here it is in its most active state and se]..
dom passive. It is common to all parts of the nervous
5
42 HUMAN 1\IAGNETIS!f
system, the medium of communication between one
part and anothet·, and that upon \Vhich all nervous action
depends. It is concerned in respiration, djgestion, se-
cretion and the circulation of the blood-the only bond
of union between the mind and the body, and the agent
that bears impressions to the mind through the medium
of the senses-it is the medium of communication be-
tween mind and mind, betw,een one disembodied spirit
and another, and the grand rail-road upon which the
desires of intelligent beings are borne from the altar of
prayer to the throne of Omnipotence, and upon which
celestial cars descend richly freighted with the fruits
of Paradise.
This agent exhibiting itself in the animal kingdom,
I denominate the human magnetic fluid, because it here
exhibits all the properties of the magnet, is directed
mostly by different means, and gives rise to many in-
teresting results which differ widely from any thing
developed by the same agent in the mineral and vege-
table kingdoms. It might perhaps with some propticty
be denominated the nervo-magnetic fluid, or nervous
force. This, however, would seem to confine its ope-
rations within limits too contracted for the numerous
effects which it produces. It is an agent common to all
animals, and many of its manifestations arc the same
among the lower orders of animals as among men.
It is on this account that the science has been called
"ilnimal Jllagnetism;" bul its most interesting and use-
ful parts are limited to intcll1gent beings. I-Iere I
shall confine my observations, and apply the princi-
ples already established to what I have denominated
human magnetism. In doing this I should be gratified
could I follow in the same line of direction with those
who have advocated the cause before me. llut, yield-
ing to the stubborn influence of facts, I must <>ecasion-
ally take my leave of the beaten track, and endeavour
to straighten the crooked paths of the pioneers.
It has hitherto been believed and warmly advacated
by those who admit electricity to be the agent con-
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 43
cerned, that in transporting a person into the "mag-
netic state," we" supercharge the system, with electricity,"
or in other words, the operator causes the fluid passing
from himself to accumulate upon the subject in greater
or less quantities, by which means the different phe-
nomena are exhibited. I have already endeavoured to
show the incon~istency of this view of the subject, and
shall only repeat, that if this fluid be a medium of
communication as above stated, and generally admitted,
then lo increase the quantity would, at the same time
and to the same extent, increase the control of the mind
over the system, strengthen the bond of union between
the mind and the body, anti cause the five senses, with
greatet· activity, to bear impressions to the mind from
different parts of the system; all which is directly op-
posite to truth in reference to the subject of the human-
magnetic experiments. \Vhat then is that influence
which we exert over the subject operated upon? Or
what do we effect when we transport a person into
what is usually called the "magnetic state?" This is
the important question which has hitherto been found
difficult to solve, and the true answer to which clears
away all rational doubts as to the truth of the science,
and renders its "insolvable mysteries" perfectly sim-
ple, as well as remarkably interesting. In reply to
this question, let us inquire what is lo be effected upon
the subject on whom we operate? In the mineral and
vegetable kingdoms we have found that electricity
naturally tends upward in the direction of lines from
the earth's centre of motion, so that mountains, trees,
shrubs, &c. become conductors of the fluid which passes
up and off, radiating into the surrounding atmosphere.
The same principle holds true in the animal kingdom.
The magnetic fluid passes up the human system, by
natural tendency, hearing impressions to the mind,
thence radiates into the surrounding atmosphere, or is
borne off by some other conductor, or by the mind is
made to change its direction, and carry back the man-
dates of the will to the different members of the body.
44 HUl\fAN MAGNETISM
The human system therefore is already ehargecl with
the human magnetic fluid, and the mind is dependent
upon the upward passage of this fluid for a11 its im-
pressions from the body.
1. If now we deprive the system of this upward
passage of the fluid, we remove the connecting link,
and cut off all communication between the mind anti
the body. This is what we effect in the subject of our
magnetic expcri ments. Instead of charging or "su-
percharging" his system, therefore, we discharge it of
the hllman magnetic fluid. 'Ve counteract the currents
which are flowin~ upward to the brain, and that carry
impressions to the mind. Thus we transport the sub-
ject from the acti,.e into the pa!'si ve m:1gnctic state. \Vc
here effect the ~amc that is effected in di~charging an
artificial magnet, and the same that is often effected by
electricity passing fr·om the cloud down the tree, ot·
lightning-rod, or magnet when it deprives it of its
magnetic power. lienee it is that we usc the down-
ward passes, waves, friction, &c., to counteract the up-
ward tendency of the magnetic current.
2. This discharging of the system may be effected
partially or entirely, as with an artificial mngnet, and
all the phenomena developed will vary accordingly.
The fluid being slighl1y checked in its upward passage,
the subjer.t feels drowsy or sleepy; continue the pro-
cess of dischar·gi ng, and he feels a calm and soothing
influence stealing over him, and, at length, passes into
a quiet and happy state of existence, from which he
dislikes to be a1·oused. The fluid being ~lopped in its
upward passage, the nerves of sensation cease to perform
their office, the mind loses her power to receive im-
pressions through the senses, and consequcntly, wounds
inflicted upon the body have not the slightest impres-
sion upon the mind. The link which bound the
mind to the animal part is cut, and she can now sit
and manifest herself through the body, or quitting her
old habitation can tower aloft, and spread herself upon
angelic wings at her pleasure. If the process be con-
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 45
tinued, the entire system will at length be discharged
of the fluid, vital action will cease its manifestations,
and perfect unconsciousness or the condition of trance
will be produced. In this unconscious or dormant
condition, persons may remain for a long time, and
again be restored to the active energies of the natural
state. In the same or similar state, serpents, insects,
and certain quadrupeds remain a considerable part of
the winter season.
3. By pursuing the same course auoptcd to dis-
charge the system, or to put it into the passive mag-
netic state, it may be surcharged, or put into the reverse
magnetic state. Thus opposite currents will be produced,
and the polarity of the system, for the time being, be
changed, the same as with artificial magnets. In this
state, the mind of the subject can send impressions to
the different parts of the body, but can receive none in
return. But these reverse currents, howe\'er, may be
increased, till the whole system becomes paralyzed,
when the mind loses all control over the body. A few
~udden passes down over the subject, will frequently
render him perfectly rigid-sometimes by a single
pass of the hand over persons in the passive magnetic
state, I have paralyzed them in the act of walking,
talking, singing, or speaking, and rednced their bo-
dies to perfect statues; and again, in less than half a
minute, by checking the magnetic current, caused them
to pursue that in which they were engaged. Thus, in
the magnetic process, a per~on may he carriecl from
the wakeful state through every degree of discharging
the system, until perfect insensihility or unconscious-
ness is produced; and by pursuing the same process,
he may be carried on through every degree of sur-
charging the system until perfect paralyzation beef-
fected, provided the operatol' have sufficient magnetic
power. The subject, however, cannot be surcharged
with a stronger current than that with which the ope-
rator is charged, unless by the use of extra means, such
5 ~
46 HUMAN MAGNETISl\1
as magnets, galvanoids, &c.-Hence, no danger is to be
apprehended under judicious management.
4. But the process may cease at any point or degree
of the discharging or surcharging of the system; and
the subject being once carried to any degt·ee or condi-
tion, acquires susceptibility for that condition; so
that when he submits to a second trial, he will have
stronger affinity for that degree or condition than for
any other. The susceptibility for that particular
state will inere:u~e. and shortly become a condition of
being or state of existence, in which there will ue
a disposition to remain. Hence we see what is, or
rather, what may be the "mngnetic state." Per-
sons are usually said to be "magnetized," when they
are carried so far as to suspend the operation of their
senses, and render their minds capable of acting inde-
pendently of their bodies, while they have no control
over their systems, except at the option of the operator;
or, in other words, when we have deprived their sys-
tems of the upward passage of the human magnetic
fluid, or put them into the passive magnetic state.
There may be, however, as we have seen, a great
variety of other states or conditions produced in the
process of magnetizing.
5. In putting a person into the passive magnetic
state, quite a change is ft·equently produced in the
circulation of the blood. Sometimes the pulsation is
increased to a hundred and forty and even fifty a
minute. The heart itself is powerless without the
magnetic fluid. It is kept in motion by the alternate
charging and discharging of the different parts, and
the muscles thus contracting and relaxing, cause
the blood to rush out to different parts of the body.
Hence as the fluid is increased or diminished, so is the
circulation of the blood, and the consequent beating of
the pulse. But in the process of discharging the sys-
tem, the passes, waves, &c. made downward; this being
the same direction in which the fluid passes from the
brain to the heart, while discharging the system ge-
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 47
nerally counteracting the upward current, the nerves
distributed to the heart may be more highly charged,
and consequently, the pulse be more rapid, which will
continue till an equilibrium be restored,-or the circu-
lation of the blood may be made to cease almost en-
tirely, and the action of the heart apparently stopped,
in the process of discharging,-or it may be made to
cease almost entirely in one part, while it flows freely
in all other parts of the system. Highly surcharge
any part, and the blood in that part will cease to flow.
Hence it is that by a shock of lightning, or one from
a powerful battery, the natural current of the magnetic
fluid to the heart is interrupted, the action of the heart
stopped, and death produced. The circulation of the
blood, therefore, in the magnetic process, depends much
upon the magnetizer.
6. There is also a peculiar tendency in the magnetic
fluid to pass from one who is in the active mag-
netic state to another who is in the passive state.
This tendency produces between the magnetizer and the
subject what is called magnetic attraction; and is more
or less powerful in proportion to the susceptibility of
the snbject to receive, and the power of the magnetizer
to impart the magnetic fluid. Between the subject and
the operator there is sometimes not the slightest indica-
tion of attraction, while in other cases it is so strong
that by holding his finger to the end of the subject's
finger a short time, he can not only raise up the arm
of the subject, but actually draw him from his chair,
and lead him about the room with his arm extended,
merely by the force of attraction. Sometimes the
operator, by placing his hand over the subject's head,
can thus raise him upon tip-toe by the same power-
placing it one side or front or back of his head, and
·then withdrawing it slowly, the head will follow.-
The feet of the subject may be attracted in the same
way, and not by the operator merely, but by those put
in communication with the subject. A magnet held
near the head of the subject, will sometimes be attracted
from its position on the same principle.
HUl\IAN ?tfAGNETIS~{
7. Having o\·ercome the upward tendency of the
magnetic fluid, it may be made to p~ss regularly r·ound
through the magnetizer and the magnetizec, a tendency
of the fluid in that direction be pr·oduced, and thus a
partial or entire comrnunityr'or identity be established
between them. This being effected, the senses of the
operator perform their functions for both himself and
the subject. 'Vhat he feels, tastes, and smells, arc
fe1t, tasted and smelt by the subject, am] that just in
proportion as the identity is more or less perfect. The
medium of communication between the mind and body
of the operator are made by him, common to both
systems, thus enabling him by his will to act upon the
body of the subject, on the same principle that he acts
upon his own. Sometimes this community is esta-
blished between persons in their active magnetic Ol'
natural state. Such was the fact with the twins whose
case was presented to the Royal Academy of Medicine,
by M. Cayentre. Every ill of one was common to
both. In 1831 both had two molar teeth come at the
same time-in 1832 both had the bronchitis-in 1834
the ear-ache and intermittent fever; and in all these case~
the symptoms and different stages of the diseases were
simultaneous in the two systems. Other cases of a
similar character are upon record. But seldom is the
identity so perfect between person~ in the active mag-
netic state, as is frequently established between per-
sons, one of whom is in the active, and the other in the
passive magnetic state. Here it is sometimes rendered
so perfect that the pulsations of the subject conform in
their beating to those of the operator. Hence we see
how it is that pains and diseases are transferred from
the operator to the subject; and from the subject to
the operator. It is on the same principle that they
are transferred from one part of the same system to
another. I have often taken a violent headache, as well
as other pains, while removing them from others. I
h::~ye frequently, too, transferred pains from one part of
the system to another, and from one per~nn to another
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 49
by the magnetic medium. In the magnetic process, the
operator may or may not thus identify himself with
the subject.
8. A number of magnetic currents may be made
to pass in different directions in the body of the sub-
ject, which curTents antagonizing with each other,
will give rise to almost every variety of neuralgic
affections, taking their character from the direction,
uniformity and momentum of said antagonizing forces.
If we proJuce currents passing down the arms of the
subject from the top or his head to his fingers, and
then clasping his hands in ours, suddenly counteract
those currents by others pa8sing down our O\Vn arms,
we shall thus produce in the subject trembling, spasms
or convulsions according to the momentum of the two
forces.
The same may be illustrated by letting the subject
pick up a load stone, or the positive end of a powerful
magnet. The subject here causes a magnetic current
to pass down his arm to give him strength to pick
up the article, that current is resisted by an opposing
current from the load stone or magnet which produces
the effect. The convulsions produced by the galvanic
battery are on the same principle.
9. The nerves are the appropriated conductors of
the human magnetic fluid, and though it may be made
to pa~s 1n other directions, yet it will follow the nerves
or pass in the line of their direction, in preference to
any other. Thus when a person is partially or entirely
discharged of the magnetic medium, nervous action is
to the ~ame degt·ee more or Jess suspended. If now
I conduct the fluid from the point of my finger, or by
a magnet, or by any other means whatever, to any nerve
in his system, the parts to which that nerve is distri-
buted will resume their action, and the oqz;ans pet-form
their office with greater or less activity, acrording to
the quantity of the fluid I cause to pass upon the nerve.
We find the same fact developed invariably when by
any means electricity is applied in cases of suspended
50 HU~IAN 1.\!AGNETISl\(
nervous action. If we cut one of the nen·cs of volun-
tary motion, the member to which that nerve is distri-
buted will soon have lost its power of action. Cause
now a current of galvanism to pass down that nerve,
and action is again resumed.-Sevcr the nerves of in-
voluntary motion, which are distributed exclu..-ively to
the organs of nutrition, and digestion ceases. Cause the
fluid to p1ss upon these ner·ves, and the organs w iII
again perform their office more or less aeli vcly in pro-
portion to the quantity of the fluid.-Cut the par vaga,
which distributes itself to the organs of secret ion, and
secretion will stop. If a current of galvanism be made
to pass down that nen·e, the organs will rc~ume their
action.-Sever any nerve of sensation, and the p:trt to
which it is distributed will lose.its power of sensation:
and by a current of galvanism passed upon that nerve
sens~tion is again restored: and in all cases, if the cur-
rent of galvanism be interrupted the organ depending
on the nerve for a supply will refuse to perform its
office. The action of the ore;ans will vary according
to the quantity of the fluid by which they are charged.
The numerous experiments of Sir \Villiam Philip, Sir
Charles Bell and Sir \Villiam Johnson, with rabbits and
cats, satisfactorily establish this principle.
These and other similar facts, prove that the agent
concerned in the production of the IH1man magnetic
results is no other than that for which I have contend·
ed, and that the nen·es in the human system are the
appropriated conductors of the fluid.
Hence we see how to account for the great activity
of the nervous temperament, and fot· the sluggishness
of the lymphatic; why it is more easy to discharge
the latter than the former;-and why~ in the process
of discharging, sensation may be suspended without
much affecting the organs of nutrition.
10. Thus we can very easily account for the increase
nnd diminution of animal heat in magnetizing. The
magnetic fluid acting through the nervous system,
causes the blood to pass from the heart into the arte-
IN I'l'S TRUE PANOPLY. 51
ries, thence into the veins, darkening its colour and
increasing its heat during the process. lienee if a
nerve is cut, that part of the system to which it is dis-
tributed cools very rapidly, commencing at the extre-
mities. The same is effected by discharging the sys-
tem~ or any part of it, of the magnetic medium. The
e.xtremities sometimes become quite frigid in the opera-
tiOn, and the whole body much reduced in its tempe-
rature. But when the nen"es distributed to the heart
are unusually supplied with the fluid, the opposite effect
is produced. So, also, by antagonizing forces of the
magnetic fluid, the tern perature may be increased in
different parts of the system.
A simple experiment will illustrate the same princi-
ple still farther: cause a current of electricity to pass
through blood, drawn from an animal, and it wdl darken
its colour and increase its temperature in the same man-
ner. l-Ienee we arrive at the conclusion that animal
heat is kept up through the nervous system by the
magnetic energy.
11. By similar experiments it is found that impres-
sions are borne to and from the mind in the direction
in which the magnetic fluid passes at the time, and in
no case against it.
12. Different parts of the human system may be
successfully treateu without much affecting the other
parts. When a person is in the passive magnetic state,
we may conduct the fluid at pleasure to any part
of his body, so as to influence that part separately
from any other. This class of experiments, which
has been subjected to much ridicule from preju-
diced and uninformed opponents, who are perpetually
crying "collusion," at the development of every
thing which they do not understand, is remarkably
interesting, and all the consequent phenomena perfect-
ly consistent with true philosophical principles. The
subject is discharged of the magnetic medium, I form a
conductor by my finger, or a rod, or something else,
from my own system which is charged, to the nerve or
52 HUMAN ~tAGNETISM
nerves distributed to the part of the subject which I
wish to affect. That part is, accordingly, charged,
and being charged, is called into action, while all the
other paa·ts remain discharged. In this way, I may
produce in the subject nearly every variety of actions
and feelings common to a human being.
Again, we may cause the same fluic.l that is conducted
to the nerve of one person to pass to the corresponding
parts of any number in the passive magnetic state, so
that nil shall simultaneously be influenced in the same
manner.
1\Iany persons who are not in the passi\·e mngnetic
state may also be successfully treated in this way. An
arm, a leg, and sometimes one entire side of a person
may be discharged, and put into the reYerse maJ!;netic
state, while the balance of the system remains in its
active ma~netic state. I was informed, a short time
since by J.\IIrs. Day, wife of Captain Day, United States
army, that she had submittec.l several times to human
magnetic operations, and each time her entire left side,
from hcac.l to foot, was discharged, while the other side
was not arTected in the least. Ilea· mind had no con-
trol over that part, nor could she feel pain from any
wound inflicted upon it, any more than if by some un-
known cause she had been put into a state of paralysis
hemiplegia. As we found in the case of ma~nets, so
we fwd here, the fluid is made to pass on and off at
certain points, between which a current passes in one
direction, while, in the balance of the system, it con-
tinues in its natural but opposite direction. Thus any
condition of paralysis or palsy may be produced. In
the same way the quantity of the fluid may be dimi-
nished in ~!most .any pa:t of the b.ocly to any degree
short of dtsc~argt ng, Ol' 1t may be. 1ncreased to a very
great extent, m almost any part ol the system without
affectin~ any othP-r part. In persons who ha\·e been
magnettzec.l this may be done very easily, as well also
as in some very susceptible persons, who have not
been subjects of magnetic experiments.
lN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. .53
A person in the positive magnetic state may thus
operate with success upon one who is in the negative;
but the greater the difference, the more powerful, ge-
nerally, will be the eflect. One who is highly posi-
tive, holding his hand a few minutes over and near the
hand of one in the negative state, will be enabled to
raise that hand by the attraction of his own. Also, by
r.ontaflt of his fin~ers, to excite the organs of his brain,
and give rise to a variety of interesting phenomena, on
the same principle, and with nearly as much case, as if
the said subject were in the passive magnetic state.
By use of extra means, such as magnets, batteries,
&c., almost any person may be successfully operated
upon in this way, and the effect produced will vary
according to the balance of the magnetic force in
favour of the operator.
Thus, by the simplest of means, the operations of
that agent, which is concerned in every action and feel-
ing, may be increased or diminished in the human sys-
tem, or any part of it at pleasure.
13. llaving shown what is effected by the process
of transporting a person into the passive magnetic
state, it will not be difficult to understand the nature
of restoring him to the active magnetic state, or his
natural condition. All that is to be done is to recharge
the system with the magnetic medium of which it has
been discharged. The same as \\hen we wish to re-
store the power to a magnet, which n·e have discharged
of electricity. The fluid is made to resume its natural
direct ion, which is accomplished by means directly
oppo~itc to those used to discharge the body. Rigidity
of the muscles, numbness, frigidity, &c., produced in
the process of magnetizing, arc removed upon the
same principle.
14. As in the ca~e of magnets, so also in rechar~ing
a person, the process may be continued till the fluid
shall pass more freely than it did before, provided
the operator possess more of ·the magnetic force than
6
54 HUMAN liAGNETlS:&l
the one operated upon, and in such case the subject
feels refreshed, invigorated, and stronger than before.
This is one principle on which the simple process of
discharging and recharging the system, is beneficial
to the sick and debilitated.
15. Any part of the system may be recharged with
the magnetic medium while the balance remains dis-
charged. Recharge the head without the body, and
the subject can talk, sing, laugh, &c. without the least
inconvenience, but is unconscious of pain from any
wounds inflicted upon the body, and is un3ble to get
up, or move a single member of the body below the
head. Then restore or recharge one arm- he has
power ovel' that, to lift and move it about, but the
balance of the system is still beyond the control of
his will. He may raise the discharged arm with that
which is recharged, but the moment he Jets go, the
discharged arm suddenly drops, as if it had been pal-
sied for years. Recharge the other· arm, and the balance
of the system still remains beyond the control of the
subject's will. Thu3 you may continue recharging, part
by part, till the whole body has resumed its natural
strength and vigour.
These experiments arc amusing, and, indeed, re-
markable to those who do not understand them, but
by no means mysterious, when the principles of the
human magnetic medium are understood. In the first
place, the whole body of the subject is in the passive
magnetic state, discharged of the so]e agent which
bore up impressions to the mind, then the body is par-
tially surcharged, or a downward current is produced
While, therefore, the fluid has a tendency to pass down
the whole system, by recharging the head, a current is
made to pasi upward from the neck. Here then, are
currents flowing in opposite directions from the neck,
one down and the other up, ami the mind, not being
able either to receive or send impressions, except in
the direction of the currents, is thus cut off entirely
from the body. She cannot receive impressions from
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 55
the ~ody, because the fluid is passing downward from
a pomt below the mind. She cannot send impressions
to the parts of the hotly, because the fluid is passing
upward from a point above the body. ]f we now re-
charge one arm, we cause a current to pass up and join
that which i~ flowing from the neck; and thus connect
that arm w1th the mind, and so on with the other
pal'ts, till the mind has resumed her control over the
entire sy~tem.
CHAPTER VI.
THE POWER OF THE WILL OVER THE HUMAN MAGNETIC
FLUID.
THE human magnetic fluid is, to a certain extent,
su bjcct to the control of the mind. Our Creator, by
his own will, controls this universal element to the
governing of his empire. Having "made man in his
own image," he has delegated to him a portion of that
power, to enable him to regulate and control his own
system, and exercise an influence over others, and es-
pecially over the lowel' classes of animals. Numerous
facts might be adduced to prove and illustrate the
power of the human mind over this fluid, to retain its
natm·al directions through the system, and its conse-
quent strength, vigour, and activity, or to cause it to
pass off from the system, leaving it almo£:t destitute of
vital action ;-to cause it to flow from one part of the
system to another, to strengthen and invigorate that
particular part, or to dil'ect it over others, to stimulate,
control, and subdue, as occasion may require.
1. One of the most striking illustrations of the power
of the human will to discharge the system of the mag-
netic. fluid now upop record, is the case of the honour-
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 51
the sick!!!" SL Stephen gives account of a young
man who would pass into a swoon, and then prescribe
for the sick. Ha,·ing remained some time in that
state, he prescribed for a disease which he himself
had-bathing in salt water-he followed it and was
cured. St. Austin mentions the case of one, who, by
effort of his will, could also pass into a state of un-
consciousness. Burton alludes to cases of the same
kind, and says, the celebrated Caruan boasted that he
"could separate himself from his senses when he
pleased." Celsus, to whom allusion has already been
n1adc, makes mention of a priest, who possessed and
exercised the same power. Cases of this kind would
be far more common, were not persons prevented,
through ignorance or fear, from exercising a power
which they possess more or less extensively.
2. The power of the \viii to increase the quantity of
the magnetic medium, or to concentrate its force upon
certain organs or parts of the system, is far greater
than what people generally have the least idea of.
Avicenna, the most distinguished of the Arabian facul-
ty, and the first physician of his day, describes the
case of one whom he examined, who" by an act of his
will, could paralyze his own lhnbs." St. Austin states
the case of a man, who "could perspire whenever he
willed it." l\iany persons can do the same, and also
shed tears at their pleasure, merely by effort of the
mind, directing and increasing the human magnetic
fluid. Even 1hose most hostile to the science are forced
to admit this fact. A physician near Baltimore, ex-
amining a lady's arm which had been paralyzed by a
magnetizer, and finding that her pulf'e had ceased to beat
tn that, while they were regular in the other, declared
to the aud icnce " \hal was no proof of magY"Jetism, be-
cause many persons coold do the same in the wal{eful
state,-there were clLses of lhe kinrl upon. record, well
authenticated." I-Ie wanted "better evidence than that
to convince him of animal magnetism;" though he
"believed that persons might be put into a state of
6*
58 HUMAN .MAGNETISl\1
coma or stupidity, so as to be partly insensible to pain,
because the mec.lical faculty of Philadelphia had tho-
roughly investigated the subject, and had tested that
fact." 1\lirabilc dictu! To what extent will not blind
prejudice lead a man! But here, as is frequently the
case, his very objection was proof of an important
principle of human magnetism.
Nor is it now a vc•·y singular phenomenon for a
person to paralyze parts of his system. A gentleman
who has been fo1· some time lecturing, and quite suc-
cessfully too, upon "animal magnetism," told me, not
long since, that one of his subjects "could paralyze
any part of himself whenever he pleased," that he had
"seen him do it,'' and that "it had shaken his faith
Yery much in the science!" It is well that all men
arc not constituted alike, if they were, such important
facts as these, instead of leading to usef-ul discoveries,
might be subjected to perpetual burial in the thick
mists of ignorance.
3. The will has power to a very great extent to sup-
press pain and disease, or transfer them from one part
of the system to anot her by the magnetic fluid.
The celebrated Khant, who spent nearly his whole
life in the study of the meatal faculties and powers,
assures us that he could "suppress pain by resolution of
the mind and voluntary exertion.''-lle was "most
successful in spasmodic affection, and e~pccially in
cramps." lt is a well known fact that persons, with
firm resolution, can easily endure pains, which to the
timid and sensitive, would be almost excruciating. The
truth of the matter is, the impression of pain is upon
the mind, borne to it by the nervous energy or mag-
netic medium. 'Vithout the magnetic fluid therefore
there can be no pain-and just in proportion as this
fluid passes from the part affected to the brain more or
less freely, so will be the impression upon the mind, o1·
the intensity of the pain; and as the mind has power to
increase or diminish the quantity of the fluid, and direct
it to different parts of the system, it is not difficult to
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 59
see how pain may he increased or suppt·essetl, and
transferred from one part of the body to another, or
how various diseases may be augmented in their ra-
vages, or driven from the system, merely by determineu
resolution of the mind. A striking illustration of the
power of the mind in locating pain in any part of the
system, came under my observation a few months since
in Hollidaysburg, Penn. The case was related to me
by the Rev. 1\tlr. Bell; but I afterwards had an inter-
view with the subject himself. A Dutchman of that
place had one of his arms amputated neat· to the shoul-
der. Afterwards he continually complained of pain in
his un·ist, hand and .finger of the amputated arm; but he
could feel no pain at the point of amputation! Such
cases are not uncommon.
4. The power of the mind to receive or reject men-
tal impressions, from external objects, by means of the
magnetic met1ium, is a very common phenomenon; but
in reality as much cause of wonder as the paralyzing of
an arm by the same means. Every one is familiar with
the fact that when the attention, or rather when the mind
itself, is directed to one of the senses, with determina-
tion to receive impressions through that sense, those
impressions ar·e far more distinct than when the mind
is nol thus attenti,·e. The mind sometimes, in receiving
impressions from one direction, or throu~h one of the
senses, is so intent as entirely to.reject all impressions
from other directions, or through the other senses. In
such cases the impressions received are in general re-
mat·kably vivid: just the same as when a considerable
current of the galvanic fluid is made to pass upon the
particular nerve through which the impression is re-
ceived. This power of the mind is forcibly illustrated
with persons in the passive magnetic slate. The resulls
to which it gives rise are peculiarly interesting; but
no part of the subject appears to be less understood, and
numerous errors, and I might with some propriety say
blunders: have consequently been made here, calculated
to confuse and perplex the mind. But these principles
60 HUMAN ~IAGNETISM
ought to be understood, and I shall not timidly conceal
the truth upon these points, because of its striking at
the very root of some long since supposed to have been
establiihed principles in mental philosophy.
It is an important question, in what relation does the
mind stand connected with the senses. If the mind is
dependent upon them for its impressions, then the more
interesting and important points of human magnetism
cannot be true. In order therefore to set this part of
the subject in its true light, I shall point out particu-
larly the peculiar condition of the senses of the person
in the passive magnetic state. The senses are the appro.
priated conductors of the human magnetic medium,
which bears impulses frotn the external world to the
brain, and thence to the mind, and also from the mind
reversely to thevariousorgansof the body. Independent
of that agent they become passive, and no impression of
pain or pleasure, can the mind receive through them
from the body, or the external world. In the magnetic
process we interrupt this agent in its course, and turn
it in another way, thus suspending one sense after ano-
ther, as in the process of death, till the last has com-
pletely ceased to perform its office. Feeling is usually
the first to be affected. The extremities become numb,
after which the whole body participates in the dormant
influence of retiring energy. The eyelids usually close
very soon after the first effects are produced; but in
certain cases they continue to wink, or perhaps quiver
for some time, and the eyes not unfrequcntly remain
unsettled, and occasionally open, after the power ofsight
has departed. Hearing is usually the last to surrender,
and sometimes continues till after the subject has been
operated upon a number of times.
During the pt·ocess also (a fact which we often wit-
ness in the sick and dying) a part of the senses are in-
creased to near)y the last, and then suspended of a
sudden. This is on the same principle that some per·
sons having lost one or more of their senses, have usu-
ally greater power with the others. The mind which
IN IT~ TRUE PANOPLY. 61
has control over the magnetic medium, increases the
currents that flow in that direction. Hence we see n·hy
some arc so very sensitive to noise, and others to un-
pleasant smells during the magnet:c process.
But when perfectly in the passi\·e magnetic state,
the whole body is rendered insensible to feelin<T. Ice
or boiling lead held in the hand, or a lancet thr~st into
any part. of the bocly, make no impression upon the
mind of the subject. The eyes are shut, the pupils are
turned back more or less, and remain set as if dead.
The strongest liJ!;ht will not affect the pupil of the most
sensitive, or make the least impression upon the optic
nen·e. Things of the most di~agreeablc taste, may be
put into the month \vithout effect. Bitter and sweet
are one and the same to them. Snuff, ancl even the
gum of ammonia, may be crowded into the nose of the
subject, and pistols fired at his ears, and not the slightest
sensation of smellin~ or hearing produced. They are
dead to the voices of those around them, and can11ot be
moved by their threats or tears or entreaties.
But impressions may be borne to the minds of sub-
jects, either through their senses, or any other part
of the body. Thus the touch of the operator is in-
stantly felt, and recognised hy the subject; himself
being charged, and the subject discharged, the fluid is
conveyed from him to the subject's mind, where the
impression is made.
The voice of the operator, when directed to them,
they hear distinctly, but when directed to others, they
either hear indistinctly, or not at all-the reason is ob-
vious-when the operator directs his voice to the sub-
ject, he causes the magnetic fiuid to pass to the audito-
'ry nerve, and thence to his mind, but when not di-
rected to him, the fluid may or may not pass to his
mind. The same facts hold true with those put in
communication with them. These impressions may be
borne to the subject's mind also by other means. Thus
a galvanic current passed along the optic nen'e, pro-
duces the sensation of sight-applied to the auditory
62
nerve, produces l1earing-to the olfactory nerve, pro- .
duces smelling, and to the lingual nerve, gives rise lo
the sensation of taste. The same may be done by the
use of magnets, or by the operator's finger directing
the 6uid.
But the mind is not dependent upon the ~enses for
impressions. It may receive them through other ports
of the body, while in the passive magnetie state, as
well as through the senses, by causing a current of the
magnetic fluid to pass through that part to the brain-
on the same principle that the impression of sound
may be borne to the mind by contaet with the teeth.
Thus some subjects will see out of the forehead, the
top or baek part of the head, the nose, chin or fingers.
Some hear out of the back, or stomach-some hear,
feel, taste, smell and see all from one partieular part of
the body. The reason of this is obvious on principles
already established. Eleetrieity may be made to pass
in any direction, on and off at any points, and when the
direction is established, will continue the same. Here
the magnetic fluid, is made to pass from a particular
part of the system to the brain, conveying impressions
to the mind. This direction becomes established, and
consequently a habit is formed, and the points ftom
which the fluid passes, form substitutes for the senses
thcmseh.·t-s. This habit of recei\ring impressions from
those points will be increased, so that in a little time,
j mpretisions conveyed through them will be as distinct
as those received through the natural senses in the
wakeful state. The senses therefore may be trans-
ferred from one part of the system to another.
The operator may cause impressions to pass through
his own senses to the mind of the subject, and when
the two bodies are identified with each other, the
senses of the operator become the common vehicles
through which impressions are borne to the minds
of both, and thence to corresponding parts of the
two systems. Hence, prick, pinch or cut any part
of an operator's body, and the impression of pain
•
IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 63
is made simultaneously ~1pon both minds, and located
the same in the two bodies. Give the subject a hat and
tell him to put it on his own head, and he will immedi-
ately place it on the head of the operator, thinking it
his own. If the operator drinks, the subject moves his
lips, swallows and thinks himself drinking. Hence if
the subject's throat is dry, so that he cannot talk or sing
easily, the operator drinks, and the subject's throat is
cleared of its dryness. If the operator eats, the subject
chews and swallows, and thinks himself eating the
same thing that the operator has in his mouth. If he
give to the subject an apple, and himself' eat an
orange, the impression of an orange is made upon the
subject's mind, and he believes he is eating such. If
the operator eats and is satisfied, the subject is satisfied
though he may not have taken a mouthfuL If the
operator puts snuff, ammonia or any thing else to his
own nose, the subject feels the same sensation as he,
and as keenly.
The impressions thus made upon the mind of the
subject are usually of the same strength as upon the
operator's. Hence if the operator withstands or braces
against the pains produced upon his body, the sensation
will he slightly felt by the subject. The same is true
also in respect to the other senses. Great care there-
fore is necessary in experiments of this kind to prevent
error.
Here then we have a simple solution of the interest-
ing, but much ridiculed phenomena of what is usually
denominate<l "The Transposition of the Senses." Nor
are the phenomena of Delusion in the passive magnetic
state any more difficult of explanation. They are ex-
hibited upon the same principle, and go still farther to
illustrate the relation of the mind to the senses. The
impressions being borne to both minds through one and
the same vehicle, by one and the same agent, under
the control of the operator's will, must of course be one
and the same in both cases. Whatever impression
therefore is made upon the mind of the operator, whe-
DUMAN !lA811E
thfr it be received from a rea or imaghiai'y"Gijlet,
in like manner made upon the mmd ofthe subjeet, aa
the consequent perception or the object also the •ms
Hence if the operator places in the hand or the IUbjelt
something that is cold, for a thing that is laot, the sub-
jeet will receive the impression of hot upon his mind,
ana cast from him the article as such. Plaee itt his
hand a soft substance, telling him it is Aard, and the hn-
pression of hardness is made upon his mind. Givehitn
a stick or piece of paper, and tell him it is an ifl.{flftl, he
will nurse it as such. Present him with a bouquet,lor
the hand or a beautiful young lady by the nrrme of
1\'Iiss , and he will go thro~gh with all the cere-
monious etiquette, as if it we~ really Miss - , and
he in his wakefulstate. Give him rttntnfort~it&for~,
be drink~ it with the helief that it is tueh, and reeein~
the same impression upon his mind as if it were real.
Give him a poppy for a tulip, and he smells a tnlip.-
Smell is delicious or oft"ensive; taste is S\Veet or ~titter;
ring is p1euant or unpleasant, and the sipt is de-
l or disagreeable, just according to the impre•
pon the operator's mind,oras he chooses to make
phenomena, wonderful as they may &Jlpear
to f()me, are perfeetly simple, upon the prineiples
which I have endea-voured to establish, and we here
have positive proof by direct experiment, that the mind
~ receive impressions by the magnetic ftuid inde-
pendent oCthe senses.
.$. A peraon may, through the magnetic medium, hy
tbe power of his mind, transfer the relation that exists
· between cause and effect, from the real te an unreal or
fancied cause, so •s to be effected by the un~al wlan-
cied cause lbe ame as he would have been, were the
J>MI cause present and active. Hence it is that medi-
cines often produce the effects which the mind intend-
ed them to produce. It is on this principle thal Sir
• Ellie, was 4tliYated by bread pills. The hype-
cbondriac Is a atrikftr1 illustntion or this etate br the
aind. Very often, lfpenon1 tlafM theyeee, bee
IN I'!'S TRUE PANOPLY. 65
or smell any thing, the effect is the same as if what
they thought had heen real. A person fancies he sees
food, and the sa) ivary glands are excited ns if he had
seen it. Some fancy others their enemies, and the
effect on themselves is the same as if they were rea11y
such. The timid, sensitive young lady, who fancies she
sees a ghost, robber, or a poisonous and destructive ani-
mal, is not unfrequently overcome by fainting, convul-
sions, or perhaps something still worse, when there
is no real cause to produce the effect. It is on this
principle that some persons, ha\7 ing been put into the
' passive magnetic state in a certain chair, a number of
times, by sitting in the same will soon pass into that
condition. Hence, too, under the same circumstances,
and by the same means to which the subject has been
accustomed, he is more e3sily effected than under
any other circumstances, or by any other means. On the
same principle, holding or looking at a ring or substance,
which the subject supposes to be magnetized, will
sometimes produce the passive state of existence. Also,
on the same principle, some persons have been put into
that condition of being, by readin~ a letter from a
magnetizer, stating that the reading of it would produce
that effect. This power of the mind is strikingly illus•
tt·ated by persons in the passive rnagnelic state. Give
them almost any substance for a certain medicine}
making them believe that it is the said medicine, and
the effect will oflen be the same as if it were reaL So
also if they desire any thing, give them something else
for the thing they desired, and it satisfies them as if it
were the thing itself. I was once requested by a sub-
ject to give her some hot coffee to strengthen
her. I magnetized a glass of cold water, and told her
I had procured what she desired, but it was so hot that
it would cause her very hlood to rush into her face.
She drank it with as much cautiousness as if it had
ber-n boiling. It immediately caused an unusual red·
ness in her face, and actually gn~e her the physical
strength for which she desired the coffee.
7 .
..
66 HUMAN MAGSETISJ{
Jn all these cases, however, there is no proof against
the existence of the real causes, but d irectl v the re-
verse. There can be no effect where no real ca~sc exi~t~,
and in cases of this kind the mind has only transferred
the relation from the real to a fancied causl!.
6. This power to receive or induce effects from an
unreal or fancied cause may become a fixed habit of the
mind, so that the fancied cause shall invariably produce
the same e.flects as if it \vere the real. This accounts
for the singular fact, that in some cases the same thing
invariably produces opposite effects upon different per-
sons. Thus certain kinds of food, peculiarly delicious
and nutritious to some, are often offensive and powerful
medicines to others. Certain animals and other ohject~
in this way become, to some persons, the causes of very
deleterious effects, while to others they are very agree-
able: some can scarcely endure the sight of a dog, cat,
rat, spider or snake, while others pet them with tlelight..
Erasmus, it is said, would always tremble at the
sight or smell of a fish; Blake, the cclcbratc<l astro·
nomer, would become paralyzed in his limbs at the
sight of a live hare; Lord Chancellor Bacon would be
thrown into a fit by an eclipse of the moon: the phi-
losopher Boyle could never endure the sound of water
drawn from a cock; and La Mollie la Voyer received
equally unpleasant sensations from the sot1nd of music.
7. By the same medium a person may induce effects
merely from a mental apprehension of Lhe real cause.
Thus somo persons are sea-sick at the thought of
sailing upon the ocean. Some have nauseous feelings
at the thought of an emetic. Some, having procured a
dose of medicine, lay it a~icle, and are benefited by it,
the same as if they had taken it. Sometimes the tooth-
ache is cured by sight of the forccps.-Poverty and
various other misfortunes, a~d numerous diseases, al'e
brought on in this way. In times of epidemics,
some, in the very act of fleeing from danger, are over-
taken by d isease, while the resolute and b1·ave expose
68 HUMAN MAGl'fETISM'
do it, and that, too, when the subject and operatot· were
at considerable distance from each other. \Vhen per..
sons are in that state, in many cases they can be affected
by the will of another, nearly as well as by contact.
He can contract and expand their muscles, render their
limbs rigid, and frequently paralyze theit· bodies by re...
solution of his O\Vn mind.
9. Besides this, one person may unite the power of
his own will with that of anothcl', and accomplish, by
the combined power of their wills, what neither could
do alone. Thus, in discharging an individual of the
magnetic medium, if his mind, and that of the ope-
rator, are kept steadily fixed in anticipation of the
result, he can be discharged much easier than by the
will of the opea·ator alone. And after the subject is in
the passive stale of existence, the two minds may unite,
and act upon a single part of the subject's system, di-
recting the magnetic agent to that part, and giving it an
unnatural degree of strength and acti\'ily. The entire
strength of the two minds may thus be concentrated
upon a single part of the subject, or be distributed
through his whole system at pleasure. I ha\·e enabled
subjects in this \vay to perform feats of strength, which
would cause the strongest skepticism to surrcnuer. A
muscle, under the power of one will, can support 100
lbs., which, when separated, would be tor·n asunder by
the weight of 10 lbs. The same, under the power of
the two wills, may be made to support nearly twice
that amount: and it is not unfrequently the case, in per-
forming experiments, that one or more of the subject's
senses is much increased or heightened. Thus, taste
or feeling, for instance, is sometimes increased to an as-
tonishing degree, so as to enable the subject to distin-
guish what the operator himself could not. This is
frequently occasioned merely by the attention of the
subject being directed to one particulat· thing, to the
exclusion of all others-and it is also sometimes occa-
sioned by the operator uniting his own mental powers
with those of the subject; thus acting in harmony,
,
ENROBED IN ITS 'fUUE PANOPLY. 69
by their combined mental force, increasing the quan-
tity of the magnetic fluid in a particular direction, they
receive, upon the mi!id of the subject, impressions of
that acuteness or distinctness. which neither could do
by his own powers alone. And this is on the same
principle as that on which the two minds unite in
gi,·ing strength to any part of the subject's body.
Such, then, is the power of the mind or will over the
human magnetic medium. I have been more particu-
lar upan this part of the subject, in hopB that I should
be able clearly to illustrate some interesting phenome-
na which have hitherto been much ridiculed: and from
the forcgoin~ principles, \Ve can readily see why it is
difficult to discharge or unmagnetize a person against
his will,-whv, also, it is more difficult to affect some
lhan others, '~hen they nre willing. The greater the
momentum of the magnetic fluid, the more difficult it js
to counteract it. This is true not only of persons, but of
.JJ/agncls. 'Ve see too why il is more difficult to discharge
the same person at one time than at another. Circum-
stances may increase or diminish the quantity of the
fluid to be counteracted,-the mind may hold on to it
with greater tenacity at one time than at another, or
the operator himself may possess less of the magnetic
force, at one time tha11 a tanolher.
CHAPTER VII.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PASSIVE MAGNETIC
CONDITION.
HAvING, in the prececling chapters, endeavoured to
establish the true principles of human magnetism,-to
explain the nature and operations of the magnetic
agent, and to illustrate the power of the human will
7*
70 UUllAN blAGNE'riSM'
over· this agent, I proceed to point out some of the
me~hods o~ ~ransporti ng pers~ns into the p~ssi ve mag-
netac conthtwn, and of restonng them agam to their
natural state. But before I describe these methods, l
deem it necessary to notice some of the circumstances
which are found to be more ot· less fa\·ourable to the
success of the magnetizer.
1. Nearly all the phenomena of nature require cer-
tain peculiat· circumstances fot· their easy and ready
development. This is e~pecially true in human mag-
netism. Some persons may be successfully operated
upon by certain other persons in almost any situation.
But it is not so generally. There are certain causes
which, in most cases, would very much retard, if not
entirely prevent those results, which, differently situ-
ated, might be easily produced. And here I venture
to state, as a general rule, that a combination of those
circumstances, which are the most favourable for natu-
"""al sleep, and for experiments with the electrometer, are
~e most conducive to the development of all human
ma~netic results.
For successful experiments, it is quite necessary that
oursel\'es, as well as the subjects, should have our per-
sons dry, be in a tlry place, still atmosphere, and mo-
derately warm.
The place, also, should be as quiet as possible. Most
subjects, owing to causes already statetl, are exceed-
ingly sensitive to noise while being put into the pas-
sive state of existence. Whispering, laughing, spitting,
coughing, or moving of persons, and sometimes even
the tick of a watch, will very much annoy them, and
hinder the desired effect. Continued noise, however,
such as that of a steam-boat, factory, or water-falls, is
often very favour·able. Soft, agreeable, and continued
music at a distance, is, in most cases, conducive to the
desired results.
All intervening objects more or less impede the
effect. Hence, thick clothing upon the su~ject is not
favourable, especially if it be a non-conductor of elec-
(
ENRODED IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 71
tricity. On the same print'iple, non-conductors placed
under the person operalell upon, will very much retard
the discharging of his system. A person being placed
upon non-conductors, the fluid has not the same oppor-
tunity to pass off~ and consequently it will be much
more rlifficult to c.li~chargc him, than if differently
situated. Iron or steel about the subject, will also fre-
quently retard the effect.
If the subject be a lady, one or two judicious persons
favourable to the results, had better be present; in
other cases, generally, it is not so well to have persons
about, unless it be perfectly agreeable to all parties.
We should a1 ways avoid being surrounded by persons
who are incredulous, or opposed to the results. Both
the operator and the subject, are affected by the sym-
pathies and antipathies of those around them, especially
if they are in contact; and serious injuries sometimes
occur from the antipathies of skeptics. In all cases let
the circumstances be such that there will be no inter-
ruption.
As to the time for the experiments, there is no ma-
terial difference, provided it be when the mind is calm,
and the stomach is not loaded with foou. A little be~
fore meal-time is better than afterwards. The e\·en-
ing is commonly the most favourable, there being less
noise, and less anxiety of mind than Llut'ing the day.
These circumstances arc all favourable to the results:
but in public the experimenter must do the best he can;
as he wilJ always haYe to put up with n10re or less
inconveniences. He should, if possible, secure the
good will of his audience, so as to have them co-operate
with him by their wills, or at least be favourably dis-
posed to the results. It is better, generalJy, to make a
trial upon a person first, under the most favourable
circumstances.
2. There are also certain qualifications requisite to
make a person successful in the practice of human
magnetism. Every individual possesses the magnetic
power, which he may use for the benefit of others, and
HUl\IAN .MAGNETISM
nearly every one may succeed in transportin1r othcr:s
into the passive magnetic state. But there is a va~t
difference among per~ous in this respect. Some can
discharge almost auy one merely by their own ma•r-
netic force, while others can successfully operate up~1
but few without extra means.
The bi Iious, net·vo-bilious, sanguine, ot' nervo-fan-
guine tem perarnen t is better for macrnetizing, than the
lymphati~, or nervo-lymphatic. It i;genl'raOy difficult
for one person to tlischargc another whose tempera-
ment is the same as that of himself, aml he can operate
more powet'fully and successfully upon those of oppo-
site temperaments to his own. The grcateJ· the con-
trariety in this respect the better.
Health is also a necessary qualification. No person
should attempt to experiment upon others, under ordi-
nary circumstances, unless he enjoy good health; for,
as we have seen, diseases and pains may be readily
transferred from the operator to the subject, and those
diseases, too, which arc not usually considered conta-
gious. Hence persons who are sick or debilitated, should
generally defer their magnetic experiments, till they
have first healed themscl ves.
In some cases per~ons can be successfully treated
by physical means alone, but a certain power· of vo-
lition or of willing an effect, is very requisite, and
the more of it, generally, the better. Firmness, self-
confidence, patience, perseverance, and tenderness oi
feeling, are all conducive to the effects, and to a consi-
derable extent necessary. From the commencement
we should continue calm, delibera.te and determined
upon the results. All excitement should be allayed,
and the mind not allowed to become the least rufficcl
or ao-itatecl. Excitement of either body or mind, and
espe~ially of the latter, will diminish our magnetic
power, and very frequently do serious injuries to the
su~ject. . . .
Purity of mottves ts also very necessary. A destre
to do good gives determination of purpose: and con~e-
ENROBED IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 73
quent success, while evil motives beget fear·, want of
self-confidence, agitation of mind, and excitement of
the nervous system, all which are detrimen~l to the
production of human magnetic results.
As to the age best adapted to magnetic experiments,
the same principle holds true here as in other cases
where physical and mental power are required. In
the youth and the aged this power is soonest exhausted,
and generally theit· magnetic forces arc sufficient only
fo.t· the purposes of their own systems. Hence the
vigour of manhood is best, when a person can endure
the greatest fatigue of body and mind. This is espe·
cially true when attempting to effect cures upon the
sick. For the same reasons, the male sex are usually
more successful than the female, though many of the
latter are powerful and skilful operators.
Ability lo adapt oneself to the condition and views
of the subject, is in all cases beneficiaL By this means
a variety of cireumstances wilL join in to assist in pro-
ducing the result. Aptness for the work is also neces-
sary here as in other cases; though skill in applying
the magnetic powc1· is acquired by practice, on the
same principle that a mechanic acquires skill in the
particular branch to which he devotes his attention.
Faith is beneficial, but not absolutely necessary in
producing the passi\'C state of existence. Some of the
greatest skeptics in the science, have succeeded in
transporting persons into the passive magnetic state,
and thereby been convinced of its truth. l\Iy own
experience will testify to this fact. But still, whatever
a man tirndy believes he can do, he will undertake
with detel'mination, and be lil<e1y to accomplish; while,
if he doubts the reality of the very thing for which he
labours, he will not be likely to put forth much effort,
either physical or mental. And, in the present case,
mental effort is one of the principal means used in pro·
ducing the effect. Hence, it is very necessary that we
should have faith in the science.
Nor is this all: no person should ever undertake to
74
perform magnetic experiments upon others, uqle•
first knows what he is going to undertake. One ~
!oundly i~nora~t of this, and almost every other ••
Ject, havmg w1tnessed the process, peradventure, i*'
attempting the same, may succeed in transportin& a
person into the passive magnetic condilion, where be
may pf'rform with him a variety of interesting experi•
ments, and again safely restore him to his active maa-
netic state! So may a person ignorant of the proper·
ties of medicine enter the apothecary shop, deal out
drugs to a patient, and chance effect a cure! But who
that knows the danger in either case, is willing to
trust himself with a quack? It would be difficult to
tell in wt.lich case there would be the greater riak. Let
an individual, then, before ~e attempts to experimeat
upon other~, first become acquainted with the nalt&N of
the magnetic agent In addition to this, if he would be
a successful magnetizer, he must acquaint himself tbo..
roughly wath the nervous system. The nerves being
the appropriated con,luctors of the ftuid, it is very im..
portant to understand their situation, direction, and
respective functions. ..\nd again, if he wishes to per·
form experiments in phreno-magnetism, or to apply
the magnetic power to the cure of mental diseases, be
must become well versec.l in phrenology. A know..
ledge of these branches is indispensable; for wit.hout it
a person with innocent intentions, may produce eerioua
injuries to the nervous system, permanent mental de-
rangement, and even death itself, or something tan•
mount to it. If a single gush of the electric fluid, in
its passage from the cloud to the earth, can shatter into
splinters the stubborn oak, what disastrous consequences
may not the same agent produce, when antagonizing ita
forces upon a delicate " harp of a thousand strings?"
It is necessary, too, that the balance of the bu&Jli.IL
magnetic power be in favour of the operator. The
upward tendency of the fluid must be counteracted by
a stronger force than itself, or else no eJfect will be proe_
duced. We should, therefore, poaseu more of theI.W.
ENROBED IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 75
than the subject; if we make use of physical means
alone. But if we combine physical and mental means,
and the subject do not oppose with his mind, we may
succeed with Jess quant1ty than that of the subject.
For, in this case, the magnetic agent of the subject, to a
considerable extent, yields to the control of our will.
If the subject oppose his mental effort, or is unwilling
to be put into the passive state, it ""·ill require a strong
mental effort, and a large quantity of the finid, or in
other words, it will take a strong magnetic force to pro-
duce the desired effect. But if the subject surrender,
and at the same time possess a small quantity of the
fluid, while the one who operates ha!'l a large quantity,
and strong powers of volition, then there will be no
difficulty in producing the effect in a few minutes.
A person, by frequent1y exerting his magnetic power
over others, will incr·ease ils momenlurn, so that after
a while he wiJl be able to succeed with some whom at
first he could not effect; and a pass of his hand over a
subject will be forcibly felt, and easily distinguished
from those of persons \Vho are unaccustomed to mag-
netizing. This is in part to be attributed to acquired
skill in applying his magnetic power, but only in part;
for by using him~elf as a magnet to operate upon others,
he actually incre3ses his magnetic force, the same as
the power of an artificial magnet is increased by using
it to make other magnets. ,
3. There are certain conditions, also, which render
persons more or less suscepti l1le to the magnelic influ-
ence. Every person may be made a subject for suc-
cessful development of magnetic states; though there
is a great ditference in the time and effort necessary
to produce these states in d iflercnt per~ons. Some,
the first attempt may be put inlo the passive magnetic
state in two minutes or less, \\bile others may require
fifty trials of an hour each. This differcnee in the
suscepti bi Iity of persons to the magnetic influence,
is the same that \.Ye wit ness in many other cases.
Some can never expose themselves to slight changes
76 HUMAN .MAGNETISM
of the weather without sickness, while others can
endure almost any exposure, and not suffe1· from it the
slightest inconvenience. Some arc very difficult to
be affected by '!led icine, while in others, the very
smell, and somet1 mes the mere thought of it will pro-
duce powerful results. Hence, in medicine it has be-
come a maxim,'" that every thing depends on the idio-
syncracy of the patient;" or the peculiar condition of
different individuals, which makes the same remedy
act differently on d iffcrent persons.
In respect to the susceptibility of persons to the
magnetic power, their temperaments make an impor-
tant difference. The sanguine, bilio-sanguine, and
highly nervous, are usually difficult suhjects to dis-
charge, unless they are considerably debilitated. The
lymphatic, nervo-Jymphatic, and bilio-Iymphatic tem-
peraments are gener·ally discharged without difficulty.
But there a1·e a variety of circumstances which may
render persons of the strongest temperaments even
more susceptible than many whose temperaments are
of the lymphatic composition.
The age of persons makes qnite a difference in their
susceptibility to the magnetic influence. Infants and
very old persons are easily affected, but not readily
transported into the passive stale of being. This is
owing, probably, to the difficulty in keeping their
minds calm and composed. Although I have suc-
ceeded with a number under two years of age, and a
few over forty-five. In the prime of life there is more
of the magnetic force than at any other age, and con-
sequently ~reater power is required to discharge the
system. From the age of ten to twenty-five, persons
are generally more susceptible to the magnetic influ-
ence, than al any other period of life. In this period,
the mind is more calm and free from cares and anxieties.
Persons have less fear of consequences, and greater dis-
position to yield to the influence. For the same rea-
sons, women are usually more easily affected than men.
Young ladies who are free from cares, of quiet habits1
ENROBED IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 77
and accustomed to but little bodily exercise, are com-
monly very susceptible. And generally young per-
sons of amiable, mild, and quiet dispositions, and free
from mental anxiety, most readily yield their magnetic
pO\VeJ-.
The peculiar state of the subject's health renders
him more or less susceptible to the influence. There
is no difficulty in succeeding with persons of perfect
health, but generally sickness and debility, (creteris
paribus,) are favourable circumstances. Persons who
are very much reduced by disease, however, are some-
times difficult to affect, owing to pain of body or rest-
lessness of mind. Bodily pain is frequently a great
obstacle, but not insurmountable. I recently succeeded,
the first time, in putting a ]ady into the passive state,
in less than two minutes, who, at the time, was in al-
most excruciating bodiJy pain.
Restlessness of mind is a still greater obstacle to be
overcome. The patient, if possible, should be divested
of all excitement, be perfectly submissive to the influ-
ence, and unconcerned about the result, or the means
used to produce it. l\luch anxiety to be put into the
passive magnetic state, also, produces impatience, which
may very much hinder the desired effect, if not pre-
venl it altogether. Hence, previous to the first trial
upon a per·son, his mind should be p1·epared. I have
sometimes been obliged to stop in the midst of the
magnetie process, and request the subjects to a11ay
their anxiety and be passive. Roving of the thoughts,
is, in like manner, unfavourable. For this reason, idiots,
or those labouring under great mental derangement,
are not so ('asily affected as others.
Faith, or belief of the subject in the truth of the
science, is not indispensable, though favourable to the
results. I have discharged of the magnetic medium a
number of profound skeptics, who challenged me for a
trial, and some of them would not have believed it
then, had I not recharged their heads without their
bodies, and challenged them to get up ifthey could.
8
..
ENROBED IN ITS TRUl) PANOPLY. 79
5. I come now to speak more particularly of the
process of cl ischarl!,ing persons ofthe magnetic medium.
A.s we h-ave already seen, the tendency of the fluid is
ttp1L'arcl. To discharge a person, therefore, we must
\!ountcrael this upward tendency. This may be done in
{;\variety of w<ty-s, and we may ndopt either, as our juug-
mcn l shall dictatc, under the existing circumstances.
In m3ny cases we .may succeed with persons by
1nentnl ctlort ~doge, their minds co-operating with
ours. The subject, placing himself in some easy
po~ilion_, is directed ttJ look the opcl'ator in the eye,
or at some object across the room, ot· upon the floor,
~trJadily, in anticipation of the result, while the ope-
•·ator him1'elf fixes ~1is e~~cs upon tho~e of the sub-
ject, and wills tile e.ffect, whieh he wi~hes t? produce.
In this proccs:-;. prLbaiJly as much is effected by the
~ubjecl as by the operator, and, in many cases, even
more. But few nrc so yielding of the fluid, as to be
dischC!r~ed solc!y b.y tbc will of an.oth.~r, until they have
been fi I'~ t d i~chnr~cd by the use of additional means;
though there ~ire some cnses of the 1\incJ. In these in-
sfances we bring Olll' \viii to bear upon what we wish
to accontpli::dt, in .the same manncl' as we will any
thing else, which we uesitc and intend to have. By a
strong determination of the minu, in this way, we may
frequently effect our ohject ~ome distaucc off, and at
our first trial.
Somcti mcs persons may be readily affected, .9Y lay-
ing their hands in their iups, palm5 down, and arms ·
extended, while the magnclizer places his hands upon
their~, p1•od11ee~ a cpti\'et'ing 111otion in the dirccti<?n of
their arms, looking al!d "'illing as above direclecl ·
The manipulating procel~ses, howc·ver, arc g~ncra1ly
the most succe~sful. The subject scats himse-JC (or in
case of s1<"kness reel ines,) in a comfortable position,-
direets his eye~ steadily to some obje.ct on the floor,
across the room~ to the eyes of th~ operator, or to some
part of hifl person,-a litt1e elevated or depressed is
better, with his hands iu his lap .9.nl his mind p-atiently
...
•
80 HUMAN 1\lAGNETISM
fixed upon the certainty ofthe result. The operator takes
his position facing the subject, standing or·sitting, a
little elevated above him, lays his hands upon those of
the subject, or holds his wrists, with his thumb lightly
pressing upon his pulse, or what is better, takes hold
of his thumbs, so as to have the bal1s of the two come
together, to equalize their temperatures. In this posi-
tion, with his eyes fixed upon those of the subject, aJH.l
his mind bent upon the effect which he wishes to pro·
duce, he may continue until he has effected his object:
Or after a few minutes he may raise his hands, and
from the top of the su~ject's head, make a few passes
down over his face, as far as his waist ot· lower, as he
chooses, then off, widening their distance, and in a
curved or circular line, raise them to the top of the
head, and again pass them down as before. If he
chooses he may carry both hands down, and ont Lo the
right or left of himself; or in their upward pass:lge he
may turn both inward towards himself. In the lat-
ter case he will identify more perfectly the two sys-
tems. All the manipulations should be in curved or
circular lines, and the 'vrists and elbows should be
limber, so as to revolve easily. When making the
downward passes, the fingers should be loosely extended,
and the ends off which the fluid passes, should be car-
ried near to the subject; hut ''"hen making the upward
passes, they should he turned the other way, and carried
farther from the subject. These manipulations he may
continue till he has effected his object, or a part of the
time he may hold one hand as at f.lrst, and with the
other make his passes, occasiona11y laying it gently on
the forehead a moment or two, then down and round
a·s before. Either of these methods may be con-
tinued or varied at pleasure. It is not necessary
to touch the subject with the hand or hands in the
passes, but the nearer the ends of the fingers are carried
to the face of the person in the downward passes, the
better. Passes slowly made are usually most effectual,
as those which are quick create currents of air, which
are unfavourable.
'ENllOUED IN ITS TRUE PAXOPLY. Sl
t
Sometimes both hands pressed lightly upon the head,
or upon the extremities of the shoulders, in the down-
ward passPs, or light friction along down the insidB of
the arms to the hands and off, or from the back }Jart of
the head al<mg front and down as far as the eye-brows,
OJ' from the top down ovel' the temples, and the balance
of the w..ty without friction, will often facilitate there-
sult. Sometimes, in the downw:-trd passes, gently
grasping the at·ms ot' hands, pressing the fingers upon
the pit of the stomach, or holding them to the eyes
for a moment or two, \Vill accelerate the effect. The
operator, if he chooses, may sit by the side of the sub-
ject, hold one or both of his hands awhile, and then
witl1 one make his passes; or stanuing by his side, lay
one hand on the lop of his head, atHI the other on his
forehead, and occasionally pass one downward over the
face and pcr~on, as above stated ;-or Jet the subject'~
head Jean back and rc.5t in one of his hands, anJ with
the other ma]\e the passes, occasionally laying it on his
forehead: or he may stand in front, and gently wave
ot· pass one or both hancls uovvnward, as above directed.
In this way some persons l~:ln he discharged at a dis-
tance. If, durin~ the process, the arms of the subject
become l'igid, as they sometimes do, the passes should
he made over the face and bouy.
The foregoing are some of the sin1ple methods
which we may continue, or change from one to anotherJ
at our ple~sure. But generally it js better to usc one
set of means invari:.1bly, for the same person.
Persons mar be dischnrgetl of the magnetic medium,
by means of a magnetic machine, a galvanoid, large
magnets, ot· by pressing the fingers upon certain organs
of the l)l'ain; but by these ways there is greater
liability to do injury, ami the above named methods
had better be adopted. Small ma~nels, however, if
used cautiously and skilfulJy, will often be great as-
sistants. The subject m3y lay them upon his breast,
ot· in his ]a p, or holu them in his hands, or let one end
rest upon the floor, and the other against his knees, or
8~
•
82 HUl'tlAN l'tiAGNETISM
•
in his hands;-and in every case let the point oft'
which the fluid passes be downwards;-or the ope-
rator may hold them in his hands while making his
passes, or perpendicularly over the subject's head, a
little above, with the positive points next to the subject.
The opposite position of the magnets will retard, or
prevent discharging a person. Sometimes, if the ope-
rator magnetize any substance, and let the subject hold
it, it will facilitate the results, or produce the effect
alone.
After the relation is perfectly established between
the two parties, the one can discharge the other at a
distance from him with the greatest ease, often with-
out his being sensible of the intention, and in some
cases contrary to his wishes. Dr. Nott, president
of Union College, tried the experiment upon a young
lady, who was engaged in conversation with another
gentleman, and ignorant of the Doctor's intentions; in
another room, with the door shut between them, the
Doctor, in less than five minutes, put her . into the
passive magnetic state. This has frequently been
done, and may be done again; and that too, not only
when the subject is in another part of the house, but
\Vhen in another part of the oity or di~trict of country
from that of the operator. The subject, also, may dis-
charge himself by means of magnets, and in some cases
by his will, as we have seen.
6. Thus far, in the process of discharging persons of
the magnetic medium, I have spoken of the methods
to be used with individuals only: but the magnetic
power may be successfully exerted upon a large num-
ber at one and the same time.
The experimenter may exercise his power upon a
whole audience while standing, or sitting at a short
distance from them. He directs them to look steadily
at him, or at some object 'which he points out, and
continue their attention to the article named, with
calmness and willingness of mind, anticipating success.
He being a little elevated in position, fixes his eyes
I
ENROBED IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 83
upon them, and with determination of mind, wills what
he wishes to effect. Thus continuing twenty or thirty
minutes, under favourable circumstances, some one or
more will, most likely, be seriously affected, and per-
haps some ten, fifteen or more, be transported into the
passive state; or, in connexion with his power of voli-
tion, he may make a few passes or waves with one or
both hands over the audience generally, or in the direc-
tion of some individuals, whom he may think quite
susceptible to the influence. This method should not
be resorted to, unless under the most favourable circum-
stances.
The operator will meet with more general success,
if he select some dozen or more, and form a ma{{netic
line. Let them be seated in a line, and gi\·e them
directions as above stated. Place a long rod, or large
wire in their laps, and have them all clasp it with both
hands; if the rod is a magnet, it will be better than
otherwise. While thus sitting, he may lay his hand
upon the hand or forehead of one of them a few minutes,
and then make passes over them from the top of their
heads to the rod, and off towards the positive pole,
willing the effect which he wishes to produce. This
is often a very successful method.
Another method is the magnetic ring. This I have
found very seldom to fail under favourable circum-
stances. Let any number sit down in a ring or circle~
clasping each other's hands or thumbs, so as to have
the inside or balls come together, and all look steadily
at some place upon the floor. The operator, stand-
ing in the circle, holds one of their hands in his, a
few minutes, then makes passes over them from one
to another arounu the ring, with one or both !lands,
occasionally laying his hand upon the forehead of some
of them, as in the previous case. Great care should be
taken in making the downward passes over one, not
to make upward passes over others behind. As soon as
some are affected, he may direct his attention more par-
ticularly to them, and in the course of thirty or forty
ENROBED IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 85
This being continued a few minutes, all carefully join
hands as at first, and the superintendent proceeds with
his passes for a few minutes, then each one carefully
disconnects himself from the chain, and proceeds as in
individual cases. This may be continued a longer or
shorter time as circumstances shall dictate. Some in
the chain will perhaps be in the passive condition in a
few minutes, and with them it is necessary only to
make occasional passes to keep them in that state. In
the magnetic chain a large number can be tried at once,
and some be affected who could not be alone. So
powerfu1 is the magnetic current sometinfes passin{!;
around the chain, that distinct shocl's will be felt in
their hands and wrists.
There is one other method that 1 have found very
convenient in difficult cases, which is the 1\I.AGNETIC
BATTERY. Select three or four good magnetizers, of dif-
ferent temperaments, and let them all join in a circle
with the subject, and concentrate upon him the com-
bined force of their ma~netic po\.vers. In this way
they can accomplish much more than either could do
alone. But they must be united upon the one effect
which they wish to produce, if they would cause tha
stubborn oak to yield.
We can generally tell when we have carried the
process of discharging sufficiently far for the purpose~
which we desire. The suhjccts, if inquired of judi-
ciously, in most cases, can inform us in what condition
they al'e, or to what degree they are carried. Some-
times, however, they are unable to speak, when thus
inquired of, their wills having no control over the lin-
gual nerves. In such cases we should make two or
three passes with the thumbs or two fingers, from
the centre of the lips and neck outward; and partia1-
1y charge the tongue, by touching it with the finger.
Asking them a few questions, in respect to their senses,
will enable us generally to decide. When these are
all suspended, as we have seen, the natural tendency of
the magnetic currents is entirely counteracted. In
ENRODED IN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 87
Skeptics, and those who are offensh•e to the sub-
jects, or opposed to the results, should not be allowed
to participate in the experiments, and seldom should
have any thing to do with the subjects. For the pur-
pose of illustrating the importance of this precaution,
suppose an experimenter, in order to convince me or
others of the trnth of the science. shnll allow me to take
the hand of his subject in mine, feel his pulse, press
and bend his ri~id arm, lay my hand upon his fore-
head, &c., or, &sis very customary, he shall appoint me
"a committee to examine his subject;" now, I being
offensive to the subject, or a skeptic, what must be the
1egilimate consequence? If I am offensive to the subject.
every psychological experiment, or such as arc connected
with the mincl ofthe su ~ject, must of course be more or
Jess imperfect. The subject will refuse to perform what
I desire, or if he performs, will do it imperfcclly, as his
natural disposition shall prompt him under such cir-
cumstances. If I am skeptical, or opposed to the re-
sults, and am thus allowed to come in contart "vith the
subject, I can cause most, if not all the physiologiral
experiments, or such as are performed upon the body,
to be total failures. The subject being dischar~ed of the
magnetic medium, while I tlm charged, in rnany case:-;
immediately, and generally in a few minutes, I can
establish a communication between myself and him.
so as to have nearly as much control over his system
as the magnetizer him~elf. l-Ienee, in examining the
arm, leg or body, I find it, (or rather make it) and thus
show it to the audience, not quite so rigid a~ he sup-
posed, and in reality hacl made it. This may be done
without any intention on my part, simply from the fact
that the fluid passes from my body to that of the sub-
ject, and produces results opposite to those effected by
the magnetizer. But if I choose to produce failures, I
will do it more successfully, by exerting all my magnet-
ic force to counteract his. Hence the inconsistency
of appointing a pr~judiccd committee to try the expe-
dments, and test the truth of the sci~nce for a whole
11
88 HUMAN 1\tAGNETISl\(
audience, or perhavs community. It is better for the
magnetizer to manage his own subjects, and let skeptics
be convinced in some other way.
lf a subject is discharged in a ring, chain, or
battery, he is more or less in communication with all
connected, and consequently more or less influenced
by them. All therefore should keep calm and composed.
Should any become frightened, the subject will be af-
fected by it, perhaps thrown into convulsions, or· some
other state equally bad. Hence no person should be
admitted into the ring or chain, who is liable to become
frightened at any thing which he might witness. Care
should also be taken that they do not wake the subject,
as they may very easily do. Sometimes, by a part of
them laughing, a subject through sympathy will be
aroused to his active energies. All therefore should
be calm and sedate.
In experiments with the subjects, Jet every· thing
be done deliberately. Always give them ~uilicient time,
and never weary them by too long continuance.
Always treat them as 1·ational beings. Motives are
to be resorted to, the same as if they were in the active
magnetic or wakeful state, to get them to do any thing
which depends at all upon themselves. Their disposi-
tion being the same, it is usele~s to expect success in
exper·iments upon any other principles. \Ve should
nevea· presume, that, because we have gained new and
perhaps additional control over them, we can by this
means for·ce them into measures contrary to their
natural di:-;positions. Nor should we injure, or allow
them to be injured, by overloading their stomachs with
food, and other things, as if they were mere freight
packets, into which every thing might be jammed
with impunity, or allow their flesh to be pricked,
pinched, and cut, us if they were invulnerable to inju-
ries. \Vhile in the passive state, they are inscnsi ble to
the pain ot· injury; but when restored ag~in to their
active condition, the consequences of such til treatment
will be nearly if not quite equal to what they would •
.·
ENROBED JN ITS TRUE PANOPLY. 89
have been, had the injuries been inflicted while in the
wakeful condition.
In all cases of rigidity, whether in the entire body or
any part of it, occasioned either in the process of dis-
charging,or intentionally, after the suhject is discharged,
\Vc may easily remove it by passes opposite to those
which produced it. One or two slow passes, with a
little friction, up the arm or part of the person made
1·igid, will generally produce the effect. \Ve should
be careful, however, not to carry the passes up over the
face or head, unless for the purpose of waking, or re-
storing him. The rigidity is caused by changing the
polarity of the parts affected. Care should be taken
therefore to counteract, and no more than counteract
those currents, that the subject be left in what I have
denominated the passive magnetic state.
Sometimes, when requested, the subjects are unable
to walk, or even to stand. This may be owing to their
having become rigid in the pro:·css of discharging; if so,
it may be removed, as I have above stated. But more
commonly it is occasioned by producing a point off
which the fluid passes from the system, leaving all be-
low that point still in the natural state. In such cases,
the mandates of the will cannot be sent below that point,
because that would be sending impressions against a
magnetic current, which is impossible. That current
must be counteracted, which may be easily done by
making a. few passes down as far as the feet, and off.
When persons are magnetized for removing pains,
or diseases, they should never be troubled with expe-
riments, or wearied with unnecessary questions. If
rightly managed, they will be able to describe their
case without difficulty or injury to themselves. They
should not be put in communication with others who
have pains or diseases, because their own are enough
for their nalive energies to remove, without the addi-
tion of others. They can tell, too, how long it wiJl be
best for them to remain in that condition, and when
they should be treated again. After a few times, they
9
,
90 DUMAN MAGNETISM
will also be able to point out the progress of their irn..
provement, and predict the time of their restoration.
as also, in many cases, to prescribe for their cure. They
should be questioned with sincerity, as if their state-
ments were solely to be relied on. And if any other
course is taken than that which they have pointed out,
or to which they have given their consent, it should not
be made known to them. Sometimes, especially in cases
of chiltlren, it may be necessary for us to exercise
our own judgment, as to the time of sleep, or the
prescriptions, if any. A number of hours every day
will not injure a person, if properly managed. In ali
cases restore the su bjecls to their wakeful state when
they request it, unless by easy per5uasion, they can be
prevailed on to continue longer in the passive state.
3. I will now point out briefly a few tl irections to
be obsen·ed in restoring the subjects to their natural
condition. Generally it requires but little time and
effort to recharge the system.
Immediately before it is done, the subject should be
apprized of the intention, that he may not be too much
surprised, when first coming to the exercise of his
natural senses. Should he be unwilling to be restored,
as is frequently the case, persuade him to it, or· let him
remain awhiJe. If, when we are about to restore the
subject, we tell him to wake up, we shall find it much
easiet· for ourselves: for then, he will exert his own will
in connexion with ours. In many cases the subject's
will is sufficient, if he is told some time previous, to
wake at a certain time.
We should also remove all excitement from the
room, anti have surrounding circumstances nearly the
same, if possible, as when we commenced. It is quite
unpleasant for one who has submitted to a trial, in a
quiet room, with two or three friends present, to be
restored to his natural senses in the midst of a multi-
tude of loud laughing spectators. This should be
guarded against. If persons are admitted after the ~ub­
Ject is in the passive stale, they 8hould leave before
(
(
ENROBED IN ITS 'rRUE PANOPLY. 9)
he is restored, unless their presence is very agreeable
to him.
The system should also be regulated, before any at-
tempt is made to recharge it. If the polarity of any
part is changed, remove the reverse action of the fluid;
if antagonizing currents have been produced, regulate
them; and if any organ or organs of the brain are ex-
citeJ by currents, opposite to the natural direction of
the fluid, allay that excitement, and have the whole sys-
lem in the passive state, calm and composed.
To recharge or restore one to his natural condition,
in general, we should adopt means directly opposite
lo those used in discharging him. The best and most
common method however is, by "rP-veraing the
passes." \Vith the palms upwards and the fingers
near the subject, let the hands be carried from the feet
upward to the top of his head and off, then round in a
circular or curved line, and up again, and off as before.
A very few such passes will generally recharge, or
wake up the subject. They should be carried some-
what quicker than the pas~es in discharging. Some
of them may commence midway the person, or a
little below his head. Sometimes placing the balls of
the thumbs under or over the eyes, and carrying them
a 1ittle up and outward with friction, or placing the
palms of the hands on the ~ides of the head, or on the
forehead, then carrying them up and out quickly, or
quick passes made up over the frontal regions, or slight
friction along the arms from the fingers upwards, or
laying one hand over the back part of the head, and
with the other making passes up over the face and
temples, and occasionally from down towards the feet,-
either, will facilitate the recharging of the system, and
often be sufficient of itself. Jf any part of the body
has become rigid,or frigid, make the upward passes with
friction, clasp that part with one or both hands, bend
it a little, and breathe upon it along upward, as if
making a pass with the mouth. To restore one part
of the bo<.ly at a time, the passes should be made from
below that part upward, and then off as in other cases-.
9*
92 UUMAN MAGNETISM
1.\lagnels may be successfully used in recharging
persons, their position being opposite to that in dis-
charging, Ol' such as to cause the fluid to p:tss up the
system. These of themselves are frequently sufficient
for the purpose.
Care should be tal{en that the whole system be re-
stored to its. active magnetic condition, and all numb-
ness, stiffness, and unpleasant feeling remo,·cd, which
may in all cases be ascertained by asking the subject.
When a number of persons are put into the passive
slate together, recharging one will usually recharge all
at the same time.
Generally there is little or no difficu1ty in restoring
subjects, unless perhaps in cases of some who have been
experimented upon by unskilful persons,or bysome who
have become frightened. In such instances, however,
under p~per management, no danger need be appre-
hended. Allow no person who is frightened to be pre-
sent, and the farther they are removed the better. Let
a skilful, judicious magnetizer put himself in commu-
nication with the subject, by holding his hand, or laying
his own on the subject's forehead,-then make a few
passes downward, as in the process of discharging, and
if possible, get him to convcrse,-after which he may
proceed to restore him, as in ordinary cases. If, how-
ever, he should fwd difficulty in restoring him, let
him keep caJm, and rest awhile-fear would only in-
crease the difficulty.
Persons highly susceptible, who fall into the passive
magnetic condition voluntarily, may be prevented by
putting them into that state, and then directing them
particularly not to fall into it again. Get them to
promise that they will not; then restore them, and
whether they remember it or not, the direction will
generally be obeyed.
4. When subjects are restored to their wakeful con-
dition, the sudden transition generally produces in them
considerable surprise.
If they wake of themselves, they commonly attribute
,
lll!fBOBQ Df ITS TB1U; UJIOPLY. 91
their waking to the firat impression made upqn the
mind through the senses. If snuff, for i.nstanee, has been
put ioto their nose, and, on bei.ng restored.t the mind
first receives an impression from that, they will attri-
bute their waking to the snuff; and so generally, the
first impression they receive through the senses, is con-
sidered by them, the cause of their waking.
When restored, they seldom remember what trans-.
pired during their passive magnetic existence. Some-
times they have a faint recollection or certain things;
but this is owing to their having been only partially
discharged, when those things ooourred. They may be
made to recollect any part, or all that occurred, by ex-
eiting the organs of memory, and directing them to re-
collect what has transpired, and sometimes by directing
them merely.
When they are in the passive magnetic ition,
they generally have a distinct recollection every
thing that has previously occurred in that state; unless
it be certain things done under the excitement or the
phrenological organs, in which cases they selclom re-
me~ber any thing, until under the sa01e excitement
aga1n.
The above named facts aad directions, I have consi-
dered necessary to be known and observed, by all who
would be practical magnetists, and therefore have
been particular in detailing them. That evil conse-
quences may result to the subject, who submits to fre-
quent magnetic experiments, I know full well from the
nature of the agent concerned; and that some injuries
may have been produced by magnetizers, is very pro-
bable; for, as I ha,·e already stated, nearly every vari-
ety of neuralgic affections, may be produced in the pro-
cess of discharging and surcharging, and by creating
and establishing antagonizing currents in the system.
If, for instance, in my experiments I become alarmed or
excited, that sla.t~f mind is communicated instantane-
ously to the sub t, and he, being in a condition pecu-
liarly suaceptib e to el"ecta by mental apprehension,
