{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__yorke___absorption.pdf","mytitle":"Absorption","mylang":"de"}
7? 233-
%^3 ABSORPTION
/ST4/V
m
:
*
AND
THE CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM.
\m
A RATIONAL AND CONSISTENT
SYSTEM
OF
MESMERISM;
EXPOSING MANY OF THE FUNDAMENTAL
ERRORS
PREVALENT UPON THIS SUBJECT.
"Nature unadorned is adorned the most."
EMBRACING, ALSO,
UNIVERSAL CONNEXION,
*
*
$
K
BY DR. A. YORKE,
PROFESSOR OF MESMERISM.
COMPILED CHIEFLY FROM NOTES OF HIS NUMEROUS EXPERIMENTS AND LETTERS TO
HIS PUPILS THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATES.
£ PHILADELPHIA:
GRUBB & REAZOR,
178 NORTH THIRD 6T.
1844.
&
r^
The following Works, among many others, possess considerable interest
;
for the historical and matter-of-fact information which they furnish.
11
Mesmerism ; or System of the reciprocal actions and re-actions," &c, by
Dr. Frederick Anton Mesmer. Edited by Dr. Chas. C. Wolfart,— Berlin,
1814—German.
" Commentary upon Mesmerism," by Dr. Chas. C. Wolfart; 1815
—
German.
" Townshend's Facts in Mesmerism"—English.
Deluese's Work—French to English.
Teste's late Work—do do.
" Attempt to Establish Animal Magnetism as a Therapeutical Agent,"
by Dr. C. A. F. Kluge, Prof, of Surgery at the University of Berlin ; 3d
edition ; 1819—German.
" Attempt to Explain the apparent Magical Nature of Animal Mag-
netism, according to Physiological and Psycological Principles," by Professor
Eschenweyer ; 1816—German.
" Pathetism," by Rev. La Roy Sunderland ; New York, 1842—English.
« The Wonders of Magnetism," by Dr. Louis Vogle—German.
" Progress of Animal Magnetism in New England," by M. Poyen
—
English.
Stilling's Writings—German.
Wirth's Treaties— do.
" Somnambulism," by Prof. F. Fischer, of Bazil ; 1839—German.
" The Magnet," (still publishing,) by Rev. La Roy Sunderland ; New
York—English.
Psycography," by Dr. Robert H. Collyer ; Philada., 1843—English.
" Researches into Vital Magnetism and Clairvoyance," by Dr. J. C.
Passavant ; 2d revised edition—1837. Contains a good history of Mesme-
rism, from the earliest ages down.—German.
The latest work from the German press, is by Prof. Eunemoser, of Munich,
entitled,
" Magnetism in its relation to Nature and Religion,"— 1842. It is
highly spoken of by those who have perused it.
'ABSORPTION:
A RATIONAL AND CONSISTENT
SYSTEM
OF
MESMERISM;
EXPOSING MANY OF THE FUJTDAMBNTAI
ERRORS
PREVALENT UPON THIS SUBJECT.
'Nature unadorned is adorned the most.'
EMBRACING, ALSO,
UNIVERSAL CONNEXION,
THE CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM.
BY DR. A. YORKE
PROFESSOR OF MESMERISM.
COMPILED CHIEFLY FROM NOTES OF HIS NUMEROUS EXPERIMENTS AND LETTERS TO
HIS PUPILS THROUGHOUT THE UNITED STATliS.
p PHILADELPHIA:
GRUBB & REAZOK
178 NORTH THIRD ST.
1814.
K m±
1? >
"
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1844, i
BY J. M. REAZOR,
In the Clerk's Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
GihoN & Porter, Printers,
8. E. corner of Seventh and Market Streets.
DEDICATION.
To the faithful, the candid pioneers of Mesmerism, hi the United
States and in Europe ; in token of admiration for their benevolent, per-
severing, yet unpopular labors in the cause of truth ; this brief treatise is
respectfully dedicated, by
The Author.
PREFACE
In throwing hastily together'the few following pages, which give
but a brief outline of my System of Mesmerism, I have rather
consulted the necessitous condition of the subject itself, than my
own interest. For it is my sincere desire to dispel, if possible, a
portion of the darkness and superstition which thickly envelope
the noblest subject within the sphere of our investigation—a sub-
ject teeming with the most profound interest to the whole world,
and worthy the attention of the mightiest intellects.
The exceeding brevity which I have been compelled to adopt, I
fear will render my remarks somewhat incomprehensible to the
first view of general readers ;
yet, to those who are investigating
the subject, for whose perusal they are chiefly intended, they will
be found perfectly comprehensible.
In the main, my remarks are entirely new. I am aware that my
positions in Part Second, will be laughed at by many skeptics,
who reject the whole subject of Mesmerism. But I do not heed
this—quod scripsi scripsi—I have given my opinion with candor
;
and am willing to abide by the consequences.
I entered the field of Mesmerism under a very unfavourable
opinion ; honestly disbelieving all that I heard, and saw of it.
About a year ago, however, I accidentally became convinced of
my error by my own experiments ; since which moment, I have
devoted to it, both .by day and night, my undivided attention ;
and
kept up an incessant, untiring, practical investigation, including
several hundred subjects of various temperaments, ages, habits,
and conditions ; and under almost every variety of season, location,
and circumstance imaginable. During my investigation, I gave
every thing that met my view, which professed to throw light
tipon the subject, a faithful, and an impartial examination. But in-
stead of finding the subject reduced to such laws, as in reality seem
to govern, it, I found, that it had been treated, by most writers, in
such a vague, mystified, and inaccessible manner, that I almost
despaired of ever arriving at any rational conclusions.
But, I took facts for my guide ; I saw that there was a founda-
tion to the thing itself; and, determined to spare neither labor nor
expense to arrive at the truth, I toiled on in defiance of the scoffs
and gibes of the prejudiced, and but little heeding the dreads and
fears of the superstitious ; leaving not a stone unstruck, which seem-
ed to promise a single spark of light, upon the subject. And thus
VI. PREFACE.
from an entire skeptic at the beginning of my researches, I have
been led on, step by step, to appreciate and adopt the sublime
truths of Mesmerism ; bordering closely upon " the spirit land."
The conclusions to which my numerous experiments have led
me, as will be seen by the following pages, are greatly at variance
with the opinions which have been adopted, as it were, by com-
mon consent, by most mesmerisers, down to the present time.
My system of Absorption effectually abolishes the glaring, the
ridiculous, the inconsistent idea, that the imperial "ivill" per-
forms" so many curious, absurd, mystical, sublime, whimsical, ay,
fearful convolutions, and gyrations of action, as have, by our
" Lecturers," been attributed to it ; by which they have frightened
the sober notions of our philosophers, and rendered Mesmerism a
subject for mirth, even among scientific men.
Although the following system may disturb the felicity of some
of the potent ivilled quack mesmerisers, who are spreading them-
selves throughout the country, I feel confident, that it will be glad-
ly received by all whose purpose is the discovery of truth. And,
even should they have adopted the common hypothesis of "will,"
they will recognize, at once, the errors under which they have
been laboring; and, generally willing to make an exchange of
what they cannot but own to be a defenceless mass of confusion,
for that which may be brought within the sphere of our accustom-
ed modes of reasoning, they will, willingly, suffer their tottering
fabric of prejudice or superstition, to tumble uncoercedly into that
burial place, where, hidden from the unmerciful, relentless, stare
of ridicule, the darling opinions " that were," are lulled into silent
repose ; whence nought, save their shapeless ghosts, are suffered
to escape, to wander down to future generations, playthings for
the mirth of school-boys.
Should my other duties permit me to do so, I shall, within a
short period, publish an elaborate work o'n the subject of Mesmer-
ism. In the meantime, I offer, to the investigating public, the
present brief pamphlet ; trusting, that by eradicating some of the
fundamental errors prevalent upon this subject, which have hidden
its real worth from the view of scientific men, who otherwise must
have seen and adopted it, I shall discharge a duty, which the rights
of my species demand.
A. YORKE.
PART I.
ABSORPTION.
CHAPTER I.
Man is very justly considered the most exalted creature of the
animal kingdom. Besides this, the intellectual faculties, with
which his species is endowed, which, through means with which
he is every day becoming more and more familiar, may be ele-
vated to a far more exalted capacity than their ordinary condition
exhibits, justly entitle him to be ranked in the Kingdom of Spirits.
For the purpose of being systematic, I shall consider man in
three distinct divisions. First, the Body. Second, the Vital
Principle. Third, the Mind.
In the first, I shall include the solids, together with all the pon-
derable fluids, of the human economy. In the second, I shall in-
clude that principle, which has for its basis, an imponderable fluid,
upon which depend the life, and action of the system. The third,
which is the mind, or soul, is entirely immaterial ; and includes
thought and sensation. Some, indeed, have added a fourth divi-
sion, to embrace the soul, which they have considered as being
distinct from the mind. Be this as it may, the'above three divisions
are sufficient for my present purpose. Nor do I see the utility of
going beyond this third division, and then confining ourselves to a
fourth : just as well might we add a fifth and a sixth. For, whilst the
fourth division is entirely beyond our comprehension, equally so is
the third ; the existence of which, however, we are necessarily com-
pelled to admit; i. e. a capacity for thought and sensation. But
of the manner in which this capacity acts, we are totally ignorant
;
and may ever expect to remain so, whilst under our present terres-
trial organization.
Of the first division, I need say but little in this place, as we are
already familiar with it. The second, then, only remains for our
consideration.
This embodies, by means of an imponderable fluid, and its
properties, the connecting link between mind and matter ; it em-
bodies the principle of life, and the medium by which the mind,
which is strictly immaterial, acts upon, and influences the body,
6 ABSORPTION.
which latter, is strictly material; as well as the medium by which
the body, when influenced by outward objects, communicates, in
turn, itstihfhien.ee to the mind.
The existence of this fluid was for some time a matter of doubt
to many who attempted to investigate the subject ; but at present,
I think that there is no practical mesmerizer who has arrived at
any degree of proficiency in his a*rt, that entertains even the slight-
est remnant of doubt upon this point. I consider it unnecessary,
therefore, to offer any especial proof of its existence, beyond what
may be gathered from the tenor of this work. Several speculations
have been advanced, for the purpose of identifying it with the
electric fluid ; which have been, thus far, unsuccessful. And, as
my present means of making a chemical analysis of it, for the pur-
pose of determining the precise quantities of any primitive sub-
stances, that may enter into its composition, are entirely inadequate
to that task, I shall content myself, for the present, by denying its
strict identity with electricity ; at the same time contending that
that fluid forms its basis, which, however, becomes variously mo-
dified (as I shall hereafter show) by a variety of other substances,
as it occupies the different parts of the system. Was it pure elec-
tricity, its effects would be uniform ; and, if all subjects were not
affected precisely alike by its influence, at least the same subject
would be affected*precisely alike by the influence of every mes-
merizer, which is hot the case ; for every individual possesses this
fluid under a modification peculiar to himself.
This medium has received a variety of names, according to the
caprice or inclination of each individual treating of it; such as—
"Vital Principle,77
"Nervous Force,
77
"Magnetic Medium,77
and
some others. But I shall call it the Mesmeric Fluid ; that being
a name of generic import, and one that will exclude no principle
which may hereafter be discovered to belong to it.
That fluid, with which the system of the subject is charged,
when under mesmeric influence, being that which abounds- in
negative electricity, I shall term Positive Mesmerism. Its contrary,
of which the subject is at that time deprived, and which abounds
in positive electricity, I shall term Negative Mesmerism.
This fluid, like its basis electricity, is universal ; and in addition
to this, by its being modified by other substances, it is capable of
pervading, in right lines, all known substances (which I have yet
tested) whether conductors of electricity, or otherwise, and whether
conductors of common light, or otherwise, i. e. whether transparent
or opaque. This latter condition it is, which renders it a medium
for vision to the lucid subject. ; as the common light is a medium,
for sight, to the natural eye, and gives him that capacity of clear-
sightedness, or Clairvoyance, by which he is enabled to see, dis-
tinctly, through substances which are opaque, with respect to com-
mon light.
ABSORPTION. 9
This arrangement is'as conceivable, and as admissible to our
perceptions, as, that common light pervades glass, water, the at-
?nosphere, and other transparent substances; and thus informs
our sight of the presence of objects beyond them. Nor would it
be any more absurd, for a person who is blind, and does not pos-
sess the natural means of vision, to deny the existence of light, and
its properties, because he is unable to comprehend them, than for
one, who has not been in a lucid mesmeric state, to deny these
principles of the mesmeric fluid, merely because he has not per-
sonally realized them.
This fluid has the atmosphere for a reservoir of its general prin-
ciple, electricity ;
yet, in its modified condition, resides upon the
nervous system of animals, and, more particularly, upon the nerves
(including the brain) of the human economy. Whilst, in this
latter capacity, it furnishes, as I have before said, the connexion
between the material, and immaterial parts of our nature; was it
not for this, the spirit must necessarily exist separately from the
body; and the mind would lose its ability to recognize the indivi-
dual habitation to which it belongs. As it is, however, the body
becomes a repository of thought and sensation, by means of this
connecting agency.
Each external cause of sensation, produces a peculiar modifica-
tion of this fluid, which is then deposited upon an appropriate part
of the nervous system, where its peculiar import is recognized by
the mind. By the commingling of these various deposites, which
first originate in simple sensations, material is furnished for all the
combinations of ideas which we possess; and thus is means
established for the support of an endless train of thought and
action.
I shall leave the further consideration, of this part of the subject,
until I come to treat of the Consequences of Mesmerism.
This fluid is subject to disorganization ; which causes pain, and
disease in the system ; and, good clairvoyant subjects tell me, that
they can detect this disorganization, by the fluid's exhibiting a
dark, dull color, in contradistinction from that of the healthily or-
ganized fluid ; which, they say, has invariably a white, luminous
appearance.
When a pain, &c, is to be removed by mesmeric application,
the immediate cause of which is, always, an unhealthy organiza-
tion of this fluid, it is easily to be understood, how, when this por-
tion of the fluid, which has become unhealthily modified, or de-
composed by some means or other, has been dislodged, and a por-
tion of healthy fluid established in its stead, by the operation, the
pain is removed.
One of the most valuable laws, as I shall hereafter show, which
governs this fluid, is its tendency to seek an equilibrium upon the
nervous system.
2
10 ABSORPTION,
Not only does this subtile fluid serve as a medium lo connect
thought with our individual bodies, but also, by its action upon
the motor nerves, furnishes the muscles with the power of Con-
tractility and relaxation ; thus rendering our bodies capable of mo-
tion and action.
It appears to me, that, in order to contract a muscle, the poles
of certain fibres of the nerves, are thrown into peculiar positions,
with relation to each other, in such a manner, as to cause tfne set
of poles to become positively mesmerized ; whilst the other, on the
contrary, remains negatively mesmerized ; which conditions pro-
duce a principle of attraction, similar to that manifested by the
opposite poles of electricity, and thus cause the contraction in
question.
If, for instance, we suppose that the fibres, at one pole, are
erected in such a manner as to extend their points, which points
may serve for the collection of negative mesmerism, in a similar
manner to that in which steel points serv^e to collect the electric
fluid, and that the other poles, by being relaxed, absorb, in their
turn, the positive mesmerism, we have no difficulty, whatever, in
understanding how each pole may be supplied with its essential
principle, from the adjacent parts,or from the general reservoir itself.
It is still difficult, however, to determine how these nervous fi-
bres are brought into action by the command of the mind. It
seems equally difficult, too, to determine whether the mind acts
independently, in issuing its mandates to the fluid, or whether the
action of the fluid (which is, of course, modified by external cir-
cumstances) takes place in accordance with some former actions,
which it has performed. For the peculiar state in which the fluid
was left, by its former actions, united with the influence of external
causes; may, peradventure, produce, as a necessary and unavoida-
ble consequence, not only the present action, but, at the same timer
the will to perform this action.
This last proposition, which is not without some share of sup-
porting evidence, throws the action of the mind into the position
of an effect, instead of a cause j i. e. makes the fluid the motive
power, and thought the consequence ; and was it established,,
would save us the trouble of enquiring hoio the fluid *is brought
into action by the command of the mind. But as it seems impos-
sible to arrive at any satisfactory conclusions, with respect to the
manner in which the immaterial and material parts of our nature
are connected, I will quit the discussion of this mysterious question,
for the present, and proceed to speak of more tangible matters
—
maintaining the position which I have taken with regard to the
poles of the nervous fibres, and premising, still farther, (as my
practice corroborates it) that the negative mesmeric (electric)
points, when in action, are generally directed towards the ex-
tremities
ABSORPTION. 1
Each individual part of the system possesses this fluid under a
modification peculiar to itself. This is strongly manifested by
the brain, where each portion serves for the occupation of some
particular kind of thought, sensation, &c. And, further, as no two
individuals are precisely of the same constitution and disposition,
neither do any two persons possess this fluid in precisely the same
degree, either with respect to quantity, or quajity.
Lastly; the fluids belonging to the systems of two or more indi-
viduals, may, by means of the mesmeric operation, be brought
into communication with each other, when many curious, interest-
ing, and important phenomena may often be developed.
CHAPTER II.
Although the fluid, of which I have been treating in the former
chapter, the positive kind of which constitutes the material for
mesmerizing, is possessed in different degrees by different indi-
viduals, no one, at all acquainted with the subject, will pretend,
that the ability to mesmerize is confined to a few individuals ex-
clusively ;
yet, it is not to be denied, that, like with every other
faculty, with which we are endowed, nature has dealt more libe-
rally with some of us than others, in measuring out our capacity
to mesmerize. She has, on the other hand, also, been partial to
some, by constituting them more susceptible to the mesmeric in-
fluence, than others ; thus, making them natural heirs to the bene-
fits to beHerived from it.
The different degrees of mesmeric capacity depend on certain
conditions of temperament, and mental organization.
Those, with whom the sanguine, or bilious temperament pre-
dominates, usually possess positive mesmeric fluid in a strong de-
gree; and, hence, they have, by their nature, a supply of the ne-
cessary material for mesmerizing. Yet this alone does not con-
stitute them efficient mesmerizers; for, let it be especially observed,
there is a vast difference between the mere possession of the
material for mesmerizing, and the power to call this material into
action.
The capacity to use this material to advantage, consists in a
peculiar mental organization, in an ability to exert a strong degree
of mental energy, an irresistible and unremitting determination to
succeed in what we have undertaken to create, and support, un-
tiringly, a superior degree of nervous action. This is usually,
chiefly manifested by the organ of Firmness being well developed ;
which renders us capable of continuing in any pursuit, in which
li ABSORPTION.
we may have engaged, at the suggestion of the other organs of
the brain. Although this constitutes the sine qua non of the
mesmeric power, this power is greatly modified, as well as
strengthened, by a liberal share of Benevolence ; which is, perhaps,
of as much, or even more importance, than the leading principle
of continuance, itself.*
Those who are naturally more susceptible to the mesmeric in-
fluence, generally have the nervous, or lymphatic temperament
predominating; and possess an abundant share of the negative
mesmeric fluid. (It may be well to remark here, that the
peculiar physical constitution, proposed for the mesmerizer, as
well as this contrary one, here offered, for the subject, or recipient,
pre-suppose the residence of the particular kind of fluid, which I
have allotted to each of them ; which peculiar degree, of positive
or negative fluid, is essential to the well-being of each, to whom
it has been allotted, whilst they are in their natural state, and,
when the positive and negative degrees are changed, from what
the constitution naturally requires, mesmeric phenomena are pro
duced.)
Certain conditions of the mental organization, are also advanta-
geous to the recipient ; the chief of which, is an ability to devote
the whole attention to the mesmerizer. This is shown by the
organ of Concentrativeness being strongly marked ; which creates
an ability' to keep the attention fixed upon a single subject, to the
exclusion of all other thoughts.
The recipient, too, should be of an amiable disposition, and free
from any thing that would tend to render him, in the least degree,
disagreeable to the operator.
The combinations of the physical and mental conditions, which
I have here proposed, are seldom met with in any considerable
degree of perfection. Those who are so happily constituted, are
capable of producing truly wonderful effects^ whilst those who
possess the necessary conditions in part, are still able to produce
some phenomena ;
yet there are many others, who, from an abso-
lute absence of all such essential combinations, are totally incapa-
ble of either producing or receiving any beneficial effect, whatever.
CHAPTER III.
It is a lamentable truth, that, in addition to the very indifferent
manner in which the modus operandi of mesmerism has heretofore
been understood, efforts have even been made, by some who have
* See Part III., Chap. 3.
N
ABSORPTION. 13
Created the subject, to render it even more mysterious and incom-
prehensible, than they, themselves, found it. We hear it, every
day, most profoundly asserted, that the fluid is subject to the will
of the mesmerizer—that the mesmerizer "wills" a thing to be
done, and it is done ; and all this unconditionally. And, without
any further explanation, whatever, we are told, that the "will"
of the mesmerizer, sends out this fluid; i.e. eradiates, directs it;
to the system of the subject ; depositing it in this place, and that,
at its option. Some lecturers upon the subject, have even been
hardy enough to assert, that they have thrown subjects into the
mesmeric state at the distance of half a mile, without knowing
where they were at the time, and without their knowledge of the
operation, &c; and leave their hearers to understand, as best they
can, how their wills have eradiated a fluid, through a densely
populated city, in every direction, to the distance of half a mile,
until it has sought out, from among the crowds the object for which
it ivas intended, and there deposited itself, in strict obedience to
the commands of its imperial master, the will* Statements, of
these kinds, are more readily made, than either understood or be-
lieved ; and are but illy calculated to assist in establishing that
confidence in the subject, of which, at present, it stands greatly in
need. It is fully time, therefore, that such deleterious errors,
which are rather* the offspring of superstitious folly, combined with
a morbid love of the pageantry of "mystic lore," than of scientific
reflection, should be eradicated, and a rational and comprehensible
view of the subject taken; such an one, as will not presume to set
at naught all the known laws of nature—nor challenge our credu-
lity beyond its utmost stretch ; but will comport with our daily ob-
servations of nature's laws, and accord with the knowledge that
we already possess of her operations, which canno^ fail to enlist
the attention.of philosophers.
In order to produce mesmeric effects, the mesmeric fluid, of the
operator, and that of the subject, are brought into communication,
by contact, proixmity, or mutual correspondence ; by which means
they become so modified, as to cofomingle with each other, almost
as though they were the common property of both.
miction of the nervous system, or of any part of it, requires the
presence of a greater degree of negative mesmeric fluid, than in-
action; or action requires a supply of negative mesmerism (elec-
•
tricity) whilst inaction may survive on positive mesmerism. In
the mesmeric operation, the nervous system of the operator is
thrown into voluntary, even energetic action—the negative mes-
meric (electric) points of the fibres, of the nervous substance, are
erected, and extended in such a manner, as to collect, most effec-
tually, the negative mesmeric principle, essential to the condition
* See first note, Part II., Chap. 1.
14 ABSORPTION.
of action. On the other hand, the nervous system of the subject
of the operation, is suffered to relax into a state of repose and in-
action; in this condition, it requires a less quantity of negative
mesmerism than it already possesses ; but, in its stead, a supply of
positive mesmerism. The fluids of the two systems, are now con-
nected, and the operation about to take place—the two conditions,
of activity and inactivity, are present ; one at either end of the
chain—each with its peculiar want to be supplied, and each pos-
sessing that sort of fluid, which is not only unnecessary, but abso-
lutely destructive, to its own continuance ;
yet the very desideratum
of the other. As the operation continues, a mutual exchange of
the fluids occurs ; the negative mesmerism (electricity) passes to
the active system of the operator, which requires its presence,
whilst the positive mesmerism passes to the inactive system of the
recipient, the condition of which, also, requires its presence. And
in this manner the operation of mesmerizing is completed. But
is this exchange of the fluids brought about by the " will" of the
mesmerizer, sending out, propelling, eradiating, and directing a
fluid to the system of the subject, as has been heretofore univer-
sally contended ? I think not ; and I believe that every candid
reader must agree with me in this opinion. Instead, however, of
its being effected in so mysterious and improbable a manner, it is
accomplished, as will be seen by what has alrea'dy been said, by
the simple process of Absorption, with the existence of which
principle, our daily observations have made us familiar.
I am fully aware, in making this correction, by substituting a
theory based upon philosophic principles, for one, the leading fea-
ture of which is romance, that I shall greatly spoil mesmerism—
-not however, of its grandeur, its sublimity—not of its noble balmy
purposes—no$ of its high benevolent, and sympathetic character
—
but of a part of one of its most attractive outward ornaments
;
namely, its mystery ! ! Nor am I ignorant of the prodigious con-
sequences that must result to mankind, from the general application
of the principles here laid down j but, of this, I shall speak in
another chapter.
This absorption is not confined to either the operator, or the
subject ; but produces a mutual exchange, of the opposite kinds of
fluid, between the two parties.
It will be seen, that the mesmerizer, by performing the active
part of the operation, absorbs from the system of the subject, the*,
negative mesmeric fluid; whilst the subject, in turn, by remaining
inactive, absorbs the positive mesmeric fluid from the operator's
system. Hence, each has become a recipient ; the former, how-
ever, of negative mesmerism, (electricity,) which principle sup-
ports him in an active, and waking state ; and the latter, of posi-
tive mesmeric fluid, who is then said to be under mesmeric in-
fluence.
ABSORPTION,
CHAPTER IV.
This theory of absorption, is supported by an extensive range
of phenomena which I have seen produced, and I know of none
with which it does not satisfactorily accord.
(
How is it, I ask, that, if the' fluid is subservient to, and dire&ted
by the "ivill," we sometimes throw persons into the mesmeric
state, when it is not our will to do so, and of which we are entire-
ly ignorant at the time? For it not unfrequently occurs, that, at the
end of a tedious operation on a difficult subject, the operator dis-
covers one or more persons who are sitting near him, and whom
he has had not the slightest intention to mesmerize, to be under
mesmeric influence. Writers have not been sparing in their essays-
on foreign influence : i. e. the subject, when mesmerized, receiving
the influence of those around him, which often causes some trouble
to the operator to remove it ; for this they have accounted, by sup-
posing it to be produced, by the " will" of the bystanders, who
merely wish to try their mesmeric skill. But concerning this fo-
reign absorption, of which I have spoken above, i. e. the subject
becoming mesmerized ivithout the will of the operator ; which is
of nearly as frequent occurrence as the other, they have all re-
mained perfectly quiet; perceiving no doubt, (as they easily
might,) that their theory of "will" would not embrace it. The
principles of absorption, however, will satisfactorily explain them
both. *
Again : a person who has made but one or two attempts to mes-
merize, will often be found capable to remove the influence from a
subject in a shorter time than it could be done by an experienced
operator : the reason is obvious ; namely, that the responsibility
and novelty of his situation, with which he continues to be im-
pressed during the whole time that the subject is under the influ-
ence, prevent the negative mesmerism (electricity,) from escaping
into the general reservoir; hence it is retained upon his system
—
ready to be returned to the subject at the least notice. With the ex-
perienced operator, however, it is often different ; for, at the end of
his operation, he having nothing to keep his nervous system in in-
voluntary action, relaxes it, and suffers the negative mesmerism
which he has absorbed from the system of the subject, to pass into the
atmosphere : (this, ofcourse, is very essential when operating for the
relief of disease : for it throws off the diseased fluid, and replaces it
by a fresh supply from the general reservoir.) the consequence of
which is, that when he desires to aivake his subject, he is often
compelled, first to re-collect a fresh, supply of negative mesmerism
to be returned to the subject, instead of that which he (the opera-
16 ABSORPTION.
tor,) had absorbed. No one will presume to doubt, that in these ci
ciimstances, the ivill of the experienced mesmerizer is as strong as
that of the inexperienced one, or even stronger.
Besides this general principle of absorption, which depends
principally on the positive and negative qualities of the fluid, there
is also a secondary principle which deserves our attention, and is
equally important and interesting in its effects with the former.
It ^ this, that, as each part of the system possesses the fluid under
a modification peculiar to itself, so each part has a tendency to
absofb from the corresponding part of the system of another, in
preference to any other part.
This principle is manifested in many ways, and particularly in
that class of curious phenomena in which the senses of the operator
and subject, are said to act in sympathy. If, for instance, when
the conditions are such as may render the sympathy of taste de-
monstrable, the operator should take a sapid substance into his
mouth, the gustatory organs of the subject may receive the same
sapid impression, as that which the operator has received.
Elucidation. In the first place, as I have already premised,
each external cause of sensation produces a peculiar modification
of the fluid ; and also the negative mesmerism (electricity,) is par-
ticularly essential to nervous action. Now the operator has absorbed
upon his gustatory organs, a superfluous quantity of this principle,
from the corresponding organs of the subject : hence, the sapid body
being brought into contact with his gustatory organs, produces a
peculiar effect upon the fluid there residing, i. e. modifies it in a
peculiar manner, by which it conveys to the mind the knowledge
of some particular taste. If, for instance, the sapid body is an
aromatic, its action upon the gustatory fluid is such as will change
the qualities of that fluid, in such a manner that it will be recog-
nized by the mind, to have been in contact with a body.possessing
aromatic properties. During the time that the operator is tasting,
he is collecting the negative mesmeric principle for the action ; and
ivhilst he is making an effort to increase the taste in his own mouth,
(supposing the subject to be still passive,) the subject will receive no
impression by sympathy whatever, nor until the operator relaxes
his effort to taste, when the gustatory organs of the subject, being
called into action, will re-absorb from the corresponding organs of
the operator the negative mesmeric principle, essential to the sup-
port of their action ;
(yet no longer necessary to the relaxed, or inac-
tive state of the gustatory organs of the operator,) bearing with it the
aromatic modification which it has received. Thus his organs of
gustation receive the same sapid impression as those of the opera-
tor, and in a similar manner, convey a knowledge of it to his mind.
This phenomenon may likewise be produced by another person
taking the place of the mesmerizer, (i. e. being put in communica-
tion with the subject,) demonstrating clearly, that the subject when
ABSORPTION. 17
tinder mesmeric influence, may absorbYrom the system of another,
a portion of negative mesmerism (electricity,) which did not original-
ly belong to him.
In fact, I have seen a case of a young lady, in which, by this
kind of absorption, severe strangulation was produced by the per-
son who was in communication withUher, having swallowed a
small portion of capsicum annuum ; and even after she was taken
out of the state, the biting continued on her lipsduring severalhours.
The same principles of re-absorption which I have here given,
may be equally applied to the senses of feeling and smelling, (I
have never yet seen a satisfactory case of sympathetic hearing :
and for this reason shall pass over it, at present,) of vision, I shall
speak in another place.
In feeling, if the operator's hand should be wounded in such a
manner as will cause pain ; a similar sensation will be produced on
the corresponding part of the subject's system. If the hair of the
former should be pulled, the latter will complain of his head ; and,
often after being awakened, will charge some one withbh^ing
pulled his hair ; which clearly proves my position, with regard to
the peculiarities of the different parts of the system ; and the mutual
preference of the corresponding parts for each other.
In smelling, too, the olfactory sensations, which are often trans-
fered very correctly, from the operator to the subject, are conveyed
by the same process of local re-absorption.
When any corresponding parts of two systems are equally ac-
tive, or equally inactive at the same time, no exchange of the fluids
takes place by the secondary or local principle of mutual absorp-
tion, (yet, independent of this, a greater or less effect may some-
times be produced by the general, or positive and negative principle,
which, by dint of the tendency, which the fluid has to seek an equi-
librium, spreads its influence throughout the system.) And also,
when any particular part or organ of the mesmerizer's system is
thrown into action, whilst the corresponding one of the subject's
system remains inactive, a mutual local absorption takes place,
and that part, or organ of the subject, is brought under mesmeric in-
fluence. This is an elucidation of the mystery (concerning which,
the wits of many of our amateur mesmerizers have been greatly at
a loss) of that important branch of mesmerism—popularly termed
" Local Magnetism."
CHAPTER V.
It has been supposed, that, during the mesmeric operation, a
community of thought and feeling was established between the
operator and the subject—a unison of the action of the two minds
3
18 ABSORPTION.
was kept np ; and in accordance with whatever organs of the
operator's brain were the most active, the corresponding organs
of the subject's brain were excited by means of sympathy; and
this, during the operation. This is an error as egregious as many
others, which, before I finish this work, it will have fallen to my
lot to correct : nor can I^ee any plausible philosophic excuse for
it ; for such communication from the operator to the subject, can
only take place by re-action—re-absorption ; whilst, on the contrary,
during the operation, a direct opposite action of the corresponding
organs is produced.
Elucidation. When a particular faculty of the operator's
mind is active, it becomes the province of the organ supporting the
corresponding faculty of the subject, to supply with negative mes-
merism, (electricity,) the like organ of the operator, which is in an
active state ; and in its turn, to absorb from that active organ, the
positive mesmeric principle, which renders it more and more
inactive. Thus, if that faculty of the operator which gives him
thegfeejing of " 'perseverantia omnia vincit" is active, it will tend
to exhaust the active principle of that faculty from the subject,
who, by this means, allows himself to become flexible and sub-
servient to the operator ; and a suspension or relaxation of the
activity of that faculty on the part of the operator, during the
operation, is often attended by the risk of arousing the subject, by
allowing him to re-absorb the active principle upon the organ in
question.
If benevolence is active with the operator, and produces a feeling
of pity and concern for the welfare of the subject—a desire io give :
it necessarily absorbs the active principle of that faculty from the
subject, as in the former case ; and instead of" benevolence" being
excited in the subject by sympathy, a willingness on the contrary
to receive a benefice is established ; in consequence of its action
being depressed by exhaustion. The same may be said, on this
point, with respect to the other organs; to some of which I shall
allude in treating of the abuses of mesmerism.
I may also observe in this place, that, when an organ is exceed-
ingly large and active in the brain of the subject, the operator is
sometimes visibly affected by it ; by direct local absorption from
it. For .a large and naturally active organ, whilst being lulled, in
common with the rest of the system, into a passive state, may very
readily and suddenly absorb the inactive principle from the like
organ of the operator, upon the slightest opportunity being given,
by such organ of the operator becoming excited in the least
degree; which consequently must, in its turn, absorb the negative
mesmeric or active principle.
I have witnessed several striking phenomena of this kind, and
believe that they are not of very rare occurrence. One case in
particular, in which combativeness in the subject's brain was very
large and excitable ; the like organ of the operator being large.
ABSORPTION. 19
After the connexion had been formed and the absorption carried
to considerable extent, and whilst the latter was still going on, the
faculty of combativeness of the operator became suddenly excited
without any visible external cause, to such an extent, that it was with
^reat difficulty he restrained himself from actually striking the subject.
But upon raising himself, and looking leisurely into the subject's
face with the involuntary feeling of a most bitter antagonist, and
observing an unusual degree of placidity in his expression, he
apprehended, at once, the cause of his excitement ; readily per-
ceiving that he had acquired it by local absorption. Upon this he
endeavored to relax that feeling and become calm ; the conse-
quence of which was a re-action of the negative mesmerism upon
the subject's combativeness, which, by this re-absorption, became
more and more excited as the operator grew cairn.
Another instance I have seen, in which tune was strongly de-
veloped in the subject; with the operator the like organ was/w//.
In this case the operator involuntarily commenced humming- a t
tune ; a thing entirely foreign to his usual habits, and especially
on such an occasion : (he being at the time exhibiting phenomena
to a public audience of several hundred persons in Reading, Pa.)
I have seen this latter phenomenon at different times, both during
and after the operation, and account for it as in the former case.
Hence it will be seen, that, during the operation, the faculties do
not act in unison. When the operation is completed, and the
subject reduced to a deep state, the operator, by decreasing the
action of his nervous system, causes a suspension of the adverse
action of the corresponding organs ; but even then, by re-absorption,
the negative mesmeric fluid that is re-absorbed by the subject,
which constitutes a vehicle for the thought or sensation, takes its
journey at the expense of the operator. In a word, it may be
resolved into this, namely, that whilst the faculty of one is being
supplied with the active principle, by local absorption, the corres-
ponding one of the other is becoming exhausted.
CHAPTER VI.
I shall now proceed to consider briefly, that interesting and
valuable branch of mesmerism which has recently received the
titles of " Neurology," " Cephology," &c, but is more generally
termed " Phreno-magnetism."
With regard to the manner in which this class of phenomena is
produced, I shall have to disagree in part with both Dr. Collyer
and his opponents; for he does not admit that the organs of the
20 ABSORPTION.
brain are ever excited by manipulation-, or, in other words, that
the excitement of the organs is caused by a fluid communicated by
the fingers, but that the faculty is excited by " will" Whilst
some of his opponents contend, that they can always be excited
by " touch ;" which process they consider indispensable. This
latter error is certainly much the greater, and seems to betray a
paucity of experience in the examination of the subject ; whilst 'the
former, I admit, may, despite of much industrious application, for
a long time baffle our efforts to detect it ; owing to the many
difficulties usually attending an impartial investigation of this
matter.
There are three distinct methods by which this kind of phe-
nomena is made manifest, which may either act seperately or
conjunctively. These are : first, Manipulation, second, Local Ab-
sorption, third, Perception. With regard to Manipulation, of
which I have yet premised nothing, the fact will be readily under-
stood, that the fingers, when vigorously extended, which erects
the negative mesmeric (electric) points of the nervous fibres
toward the extremities, become excellent absorbents for the collec-
tion of the active principle ; and upon being relaxed, will suffer
this principle to escape ; re-absorbing in turn the positive mesmeric
or inactive principle. This fact is strongly corroborated by the
effect produced by pointing the extended fingers towards the eyes
of the subject, and then relaxing them whilst in this position : to
the consequence of which latter act, many an amateur mesmerizer
can attest the surprising discomfiture that he has met with by
performing it, either through ignorance or inadvertence. So in
bringing the fingers in contact (proximity,) with an organ of the
brain, if they are already sufficiently charged with the active
principle, re-absorption may be brought about immediately upon
their being relaxed, and the organ thus excited. This capacity
of exciting the organs of the brain, by manipulation, is confined to
the principle of general absorption, and can have place only in
those cases in which the law of equilibrium predominates over
the principle of local absorption: and there are many cases in
which this principle of local absorption, i. e. the preference which
each part has for the fluids of its corresponding part, is so tenacious
that it entirely precludes the efficiency of manipulation in exciting
the organs. And, in fact, I think the cases comparatively few, in
which manipulation alone is sufficient to produce this effect. I
am not ignorant of the precautions necessary to prove this opinion
of manipulatory excitement, and have been favored with the
most unimpeachable evidence of its validity in cases in which all
the usual hindrances upon this point have been removed. In
many cases, however, the influence of manipulation is available,
when acting in adjunction with either of the other exciting
methods ; for it then often adds vigor to the excitement already begun.
ABSORPTION. 21
When a particular organ is to be excited by the second method,
local absorption, the corresponding organ of the operator's brain
must first be excited—receiving its active principle partly by local
and partly by general absorption : (which latter includes absorp-
tion from foreign parts of his own system, and the general reser-
voir,) which organ as it becomes relaxed will re-absorb the
positive mesmerism from the like organ of the subject, which, in
its turn, by dint of local re-absorption, will receive the negative
mesmerism necessary to arouse it to action. I would have sup-
posed that this sympathetic excitement could not have escaped
the notice of any practical observer, as it is by no means of rare
occurrence.
The third method, perception, which is perhaps as useful as,
and more applicable than either of the preceding ones, consists
simply in informing the subject which faculty the operator desires
to become excited. This may be accomplished in a variety of
ways; by mental correspondence,* by which the subject will
perceive what is expected of him ; by any external sign which
may have been given him on a former occasion ; by telling the
subject plainly the operator's desire ; or by any thing, whatever,
being done which would indicate that desire to him.
In a case of this kind, the susceptibility of the particular organ
which the subject perceives it to be the intention of the operator
to excite, is aroused by his apprehension of the excitement which
is about to take place ; which causes it to collect the active prin-
ciple by either loeal or general absorption, as the case may be.
The general tenor of this last method agrees, I think, with Dr.
Collyer's views of the subject, given at his lectures in Philadelphia
in the spring of 1843, and embraces what he means to imply by
" WILL."
Any two, or all of these methods, may often be advantageously
combined.
These phenomena may also sometimes be produced by a third
person, or one put in communication with the subject as in the
case of the external sympathies; (see chapter IV., of taste, &c.,)
and as they resemble them in many respects, are likewise governed
by the same general principles.
I deem it scarcely necessary to say more at present to prove
my theory of absorption, which I think will be found intelligible
to every person who is familiar with mesmeric phenomena, I may
only add briefly, that in removing the influence from a subject, a
complete mutual re-absorption between him and the operator takes
place, either local or general, as the case may be—that where there
is exhaustion, i. e. a loss of either the positive or negative principle,
it is finally re-supplied by a gradual re-action from the general
* See Part IT., Chapter 1.
22 ABSORPTION.
reservoir. And in order that t may not swell this part of my
work beyond its intended limits, I shall conclude it by a few
concise remarks on manipulation. I havealready alluded several
times to the efficiency of manipulations, and premised that the
ringers are excellent conductors, consequently manipulations are
often used with great advantage during the operation, both as
general conductors and absorbents for collecting any truant par-
ticles of fluid which may have escaped the local absorption, and
which might otherwise cause convulsions.
Rev. La Roy Sunderland seems to entertain such a high opinion
of manipulations in the operation, that in N$. 1, Vol. 2, of his
"Magnet," a valuable monthly periodical on the subject of mes-
merism, published in New York, he says that their use "will be
found equally successful, and far better than the old process of
staring persons in the face." By which delicate language, I
presume he alludes to holding a connexion by having the eyes
mutually fixed. With such an opinion I cannot agree ; for the eyes
are both excellent and very natural conductors, and in many cases,
such a connexion is indispensable in mesmerizing a new subject.
In many cases, too, in which children are to be operated upon, and
when it is impossible to hold their attention in any other way, it
must be admitted to the "sine qua non" of the process. It is
entirely foreign from my present design, to write a dissentation on
the art of mesmerizing, although I have at my command the most
ample resources for such a purpose ; still, whenever I meet with
any thing under that head, the nature of which seems calculated
to mislead, and rather to throw darkness than light upon the paths
of investigation, I shall deem it my duty to correct it.
In conclusion. In using manipulations for removing the in-
fluence from a subject, the fingers are relaxed that they may re-
absorb the positive mesmerism, and if "passes" are used they are
generally made from the extremities toward the body, throwing, as it
were, the negative mesmeric fluid upon the negative mesmeric
points of the nervous fibres of the subject's system ;
(which usually
extend toward the extremities,) which now being called into action,
are erected,-and consequently re-absorb the active principle.
PART II.
UNIVERSAL CONNEXION.
CHAPTER I.
Man is not that independent, thinking, being, which, for
many plausible reasons, he has long been, and still is generally
supposed to be. 1 intend to reserve the general discussion of this
subject, for a future and more proper occasion. In the mean time,
however, I introduce the assertion, in this place, merely as a
ground-work for a single position, that I am about to advance;
namely, Universal Connexion : i. e. a general connexion of
thought throughout the universe. This position will, doubtless,
seem extremely novel at first, and to many, eccentric and absurd ;
yet I shall not, on this account, hesitate to advance it, for it is both
radical, and demonstrable ; nor do I despair of being able clearly
to prove and support it, by bringing forward a succession of illus-
trations, the evidence of which, cannot for a moment be doubted.
In the first place, the mesmeric fluid, of which I have already
given some description, has for its basis the electric fluid, (which
is universal,) which fact alone pre-suppose a universal connexion;
and was this fluid identical with the mesmeric fluid, doubtless the
connexion would be much more complete than it now is ; as it is,
however, the basis being modified by the human system, the
strength, or weakness of the connexion (as with mesmeric experi-
ments) depends greatly upon the proximity, or distance, to which
the connexion is carried.
*
* In speaking, in a former chapter, of persons being mesmerized at the distance
of half a mile, I do not mean to imply, that a connexion cannot be held at that
distance; nor do I deny the possibility, in some cases, of performing the operation
at that distance ; although there are many intervening circumstances that may
interfere with the genuineness of such an experiment. Nor would I be understood
to imply, that action of the nervous system does not embrace that mental action,
which mesmerizers misname " will" But it is the absurdity of making such
assertions in public, without their proper reasonings, to which I chiefly object;
for rational people will not believe such statements, without, at least, a plausible
explanation of them ; and consequently, they are worse than thrown away.
24 UNIVERSAL CONNEXION.
Secondly. The basis, (electricity.) may at any time form a ve-
hicle, or rather a medium, for the modifying principles of the mes-
meric fluid.
Thirdly. The manner of producing many mesmeric mental phe-
nomena, is but an extension of our usual means of performing
mental actions.
"The possibility of mental transfer has been established beyond
the remotest chance of a doubt."
There can no longer be any doubt of the truth of the above
quotation. Every mesmeric practitioner must be familiar with the
fact, that a state of mental correspondence may often be produced.
In producing the almost startling class of phenomena exhibited
by this state, it is necessary, that the subject should receive, by
local absorption, the mental impression from the brain of the.ope-
rator, or person in communication with him.
In order that the uninitiated may not be at a loss to know to
what class of phenomena I have reference, I will insert the follow-
ing extract from an article in the " Lehigh Bulletin/7
of August
16, 1843:
" On Tuesday evening, of last week, after going through a suc-
cessful course of clairvoyant,* and phreno-magnetic experiments^
Dr. Yorke announced his intention of exhibiting on Thursday
evening, an experiment with a bowl of molasses, by means of
which, he would reflect t the rays of an embodied idea, from the
* These experiments, though called clairvoyant, were mental correspondent,-
exhibited in the ordinary manner.
—
The Author.
| Dr. Collyer first introduced this experiment before the public, in the Spring
of 1843, and since advocated it in his pamphlet, entitled, " Psycography ;" on
which occasions, he explained it as the " reflection " of the rays of an embodied
idea, from the surface of the liquid. It was having witnessed his experiments,
that induced me to make the trial, on the present, as well as on several other oc-
casions, with equal success ; and for some time, I felt quite enthusiastic about it.
Since, however, I have discovered the error into which I was unwittingly led;
therefore I correct it.
After much anxious investigation to discover the truth of the hypothesis, I was
compelled to relinquish my purpose. My subjects told me, upon inquiry, that, in
many cases, when performing this experiment, the images seemed to rise out of
the liquid ; whilst in others, the images appeared of their natural size, and entirely
independent of the mirror. They told me too, that, in those cases in which the
images seemed to rest upon the mirror, that appearance was caused by the per-
sons in communication with them, holding upon their mental vision, the image of
the mirror, in connexion with the image of t]ie object desired to be seen ; or by
their own, (the subjects') knowledge of the presence of the mirror: and, conse-
quently, their connecting its image with the image presented by local absorption.
Which explanations I consider very rational.
I also found that the same results took place, when the angles on the opposite
sides of the mirror were unequal, as when equal. And, in fact, I found no change
when I, (privately) removed the liquid altogether; for even then, by dint of the
supposed presence of the mirror, the images were often seen, as before, resting
upon the surface of the liquid.
Again : if the rays of this medium were actually bent in a similar manner to
UNIVERSAL CONNEXION. 25
brain of one person, looking into the bowl at a certain angle, to
that of the recipient, at the same angle, on the opposite side. The
announcement was, of course, received with much incredulity ;
and even his most sanguine friends were disposed to smile at what
they considered his enthusiasm. But Thursday evening came,
and, after a few appropriate remarks, Dr. Y. threw a young man,
of this place, into a magnetic sleep, in about fifteen minutes ; a
table was then stood before him, upon which Dr. Y. placed a small
bowl of molasses ; a medical gentleman, from the audience, then
took a seat on the opposite side of the table, and was requested to
look into*'the bowl, and bring before his mind, any image which
he choose. The recipient seemed intensely searching for something
in the liquid ; and, after a few moments, said, in a distinct and au-
dible manner, *
I see the State House, at Philadelphia.' A short
pause ; when he added
—
w
I see a wagon.' At this, the gentle-
man stated that he had described the images of his thoughts to the
very letter ; and that*the < wagon ' was the one well-known as the
''Black Maria,' used to convey the prisoners. The result of this
experiment was heard in profound silence by the audience, and
so great was the sensation produced, that actual stupor and doubt
seemed depicted on nearly every countenance. A clergyman then
took the seat ; and, after a minute of breathless suspense, the re-
cipient said, i
I see an engine house with white doors'—a momen-
tary pause
—
s
now I see a church'—pause—'they have brought
the engine out, and stood it before the door ' —short pause—' and
now they seem to be drawing it through a large body of people.'
At this moment, an involuntary exclamation of surprise escaped
from the lips of the experimenter; which was followed by a burst
of astonishment from the audience, as the flash of conviction fell
upon their minds, whilst he described the scenery which had pass-
ed through his mind, corresponding with what the recipient had
said, in every particular.
We saw Dr. Y. repeat this experiment on Saturday evening
;
when, among others, a gentleman entirely skeptical took the seat,
and brought before his mind, the falls of Niagara ; the recipient,
after a moment's pause, and with some degree of apparent sur-
those of reflected light, as Dr. Collyer supposes, the images would be seen, by
the subject, in an inverted position ; which is not the case. He also, in his
" Psycography," where he maintains the necessity of the angles, on either side,
being equal, introduces, as a parallel case, the phenomenon of the Egyptian Magi,
with the " magic mirror." But in the accounts which he there furnishes of the
manner in which they perform this experiment, there is nothing, whatever, ad-
duced to show that an equality of the angles was observed ; which, had it been
done, could not have escaped the notice of the inquiring parties engaged in it.
—
Hence I shall consider the phenomenon in question, as a result of simple local
absorption, without the necessity of bending the rays of the fluid. Though I am
still perfectly willing to alter my opinion, whenever sufficient evidence shall be
produced, to warrant me in doing so.
4
26 UNIVERSAL CONNEXION.
prise, cried out, ' Is it a dam ? ' The gentleman seemed to change
his opinion.
Another striking demonstration of mental correspondence which
Dr. Y. gave, was this : One of the audience placed a row of six or
seven pieces of money before the recipient ; Dr. Y. then told him
to gather them up, one at a time, until the person who stood be-
hind him willed him to stop. He commenced picking them up
and, at trie will of the person near him, promptly stopped; it was
requested to be repeated ; Dr. Y. consented ; and the same result
took place, to the astonishment of the whole audience. The ex-
periment was then tested by about twenty ladies and gentlemen,
without a single failure."
I might adduce many other equally striking and successful ex-
periments, which have come under my immediate observation and
practice ; but as that would not forward the chief design of this
part of my work, (believing that the above-mentioned will suffice
to point out the particular kind of phenomena of which I am now
treating,) I shall not occupy the attention of the reader with them.
It will be seen, as I have already hinted, that, by local absorption,
i. e. by the active principle being conveyed from the brain of one
person, to that of another, correct mental impressions may be
transferred. These impressions too, as every practitioner knows,
are often transferred to the lucid subject undesignedly ; and to a
considerable distance.
The degree of accuracy, with which an individual idea is thus
transferred, depends upon the degree of the natural capacity of the
parties to be in communication ; the distance between them, (on
which, as I said before, depends the strength of the connexion,)
and the degree of concentration upon that particular idea. I have
already premised that this mesmeric communication is but a
heightened degree of our natural* means of communication;
hence it is governed by the same general laws, and a reduction of
the accuracy of that communication, brings it more and more in
proximity with our usual mode of communication ; until, finally,
it commingles with it, and they are lost in each other.
According to the above, the universal basis of the mesmeric
fluid, forms a medium for connecting, in a greater or less degree,
the minds, the thoughts, the immaterial parts of all mankind.
This connexion is manifested in a variety of ways ; not only in
the mesmeric condition, but also in many cases of nervous disease,
and in the normal state.
I have already shown some instances of mesmeric connexion ; I
will adduce one instance more, which bears a greater proximity to
natural connexion. Having repeatedly mesmerised Master George
* I use this word, merely in contradistinction to mesmeric, to imply that there
has been no voluntary effort to increase the strength of the connexion.
UNIVERSAL CONNEXION. 27
Wundcrlich, a lad eighteen or nineteen years old, at Allentown,
Pa., I took, what I then considered, my final departure from that
place, for Reading, distant thirty-six miles ; whence, after remain-
ing upwards of two weeks, I unexpectedly returned to Allentown,
being very anxious to find George, for the purpose of testing some
mesmeric experiments. On my arrival, I was not a little surprised
to learn that George had anticipated my coming j and with such
certainty, that he could not rest until he had satisfied himself of
the fact, by inquiring for me. He said that he " knew " that I
was coming ; but how he knew, he was unable to tell ; but added,
at the same time, " Is it possible that you have such a powerful
influence over me ?
"
Elucidation. There was a strong natural connexion between
the fluids of our systems ; which had been rendered stronger, by
our former mesmeric communion. By our proximity, and the ex-
treme activity of my mind, from anxiety to find him ; and tr»at
activity too, being strongly concentrated upon him, as it had often
been before, my brain was rendered particularly .susceptible to that
same modification of the active principle, which had supplied it,
on many former occasions, when its action was concentrated upon
the same object. At our greatest proximity, which was a little
less than a quarter of a mile, (my lodging being that distance from
where he was at the time,) there being, as I have intimated, a
strong connexion, my system, (the electric fluid being the medium,)
absorbed from his the active principle. This condition alone,
might have caused such feelings to him, as he had often before
felt in my presence ; and thus reminded him of me. This feeling,
however, being aroused on his part, may have caused a re-absorp-
tion from my system ; and thus fully corroborated his first im-
pression.
In disease, this phenomenon is often strikingly manifested. I
visited an old lady, last summer, in Northampton County, Pa.,
who had been blind for several years. This remarkable personage
is constantly in a state of semi-mental lucidity. After conversing
for half an hour, I discovered that she was taking cognizance of
my thoughts, by absorption, in a very accurate manner. This
lady almost invariably anticipates the (irregular) visits of her phy-
sician arid friends, within a few minutes.
In seeking in the normal state, for a parallel to the above, I will-
simply point the reader to the vulgar phrase, "Speak of the Devil,
and he ivill appear. 77
It is a remarkable and well-established fact
that persons do make their appearance in company, whilst being
spoken of, or thought of, much oftener than for which the rules of
chance will account ; hence it is that the above phrase has been
repeatedly heard by nearly every one. The proper reading, how-
ever, is, When an acquaintance approaches, he is spoken of.
This remarkable mental phenomenon, like every thing else that
*S UNIVERSAL CONNEXION.
savours of the wonderful, has oftener elicited momentary surprise,
than philosophic enquiry. I think that the same principles of con-
nexion, and absorption, which I adduced in the former cases, will
satisfactorily explain it. Deeming these instances sufficient of
their kind, to give the reader some idea of what I mean by uni-
versal connexion, which cannot be doubted in the mesmeric state,
I shall proceed to draw still closer analogies between this, and the
normal state.
CHAPTER II.
Who does not know that we can convey our ideas to some per-
sons, with much greater facility, than to others? And who does
not know, too, that we can better convey them to those with whom
we are familiar, -than to strangers ? Why is it so ? becomes a
matter of rational enquiry.
One obvious reason why we can better communicate to some
than others, is, that the connexion is naturally stronger—that the
capacity to be in correspondence is greater. For, although in con-
versation, our words, (as such,') may be as intelligible to one, as
another, the fact that the fluids of our systems, do not so readily
commingle in some cases, as in others, is sufficient to create a vast
difference in the efficacy with which we are capable of rendering
our ideas comprehensible.
That it is not the sound of words alone, which conveys an idea
to the mind, is evident; notwithstanding that we may be quite fa-
miliar with those sounds ; hence it is, that, when one's mind is
already engaged, he may be addressed with the most distinct
words, the sound of which, the ear cannot exclude, yet they will
not convey the intended impression to the mind. To make him
understand the meaning of the sounds, we must have his attention^
i. e. his susceptibility must be excited, which will render him ca-
pable of absorbing from our systems, the principle necessary to
complete the idea which the signs of sound may have caused his
excited susceptibility to anticipate.
This ability to yield the attention, or to become in correspon-
dence, differs in different individuals, as I have already hinted
;
and upon this depends, in part, the greater facility with which we
can convey our ideas to some persons than to others. I shall be
told, that the ability to give the attention to the speaker, depends
upon some peculiarities of temperament—certain conditions of
phrenological developement—a general capacity to concentrate
the mind, &c. I admit that it does; and, in return, reply, that
upon these very same conditions, depends, in a great degree, the
UNIVERSAL CONNEXION. 29
'capacity to conduct, successfully, the phenomena of mesmeric
mental correspondence.
Doubtless, some reader has, by this time, enquired, how we are
to account for the capacity to convey ideas by means of writing,
&c, and how it is that we are capable of receiving mental impres-
sions, from books, which, being inanimate, could not possibly sup-
ply the necessary fluid, for the confirming of an idea?
In cases of this kind, the susceptibility is excited by certain
forms (of words,) which the mind recognizes as having before
seen ; i. e. these certain forms comport with impressions which
have formerly been deposited upon the brain, which impressions,
consist of a fluid under such peculiar modifications as to be recog-
nized by the mind, to contain some particular meaning, as I have
stated in a former chapter ; and which, when excited, may be com-
bined in such a manner as will produce the necessary, susceptibility
of the author's meaning; which excited' susceptibility, may be con-
firmed simply by the reader's absorbing the active basis, either from
foreign parts of his own system, or the general reservoir.
No sign of form, however, which the author may make, although
he may attach to it the most important meaning, will convey the in-
tended idea to th^ mind of the reader; unless it comports with some
mental impression already resident upon the brain ; which impres-
sion was created on some former occasion, by joining a particular
meaning to a similar sign ; and which now may serve to connect
this external sign with a similar meaning. Finally: this method of
communication is weaker and less accurate than that of personal
correspondence ; for it loses the great advantage of local absorption,
and the advantage of communion by the eyes, which are unrivalled
conductors of thet
fluid ; which renders them, as it were, the " index
to the soul."
Who does not know, that, when persons wish to interchange
their ideas, they get as close together as convenient? g Who ever
saw two persons conversing with their backs towards each other,
or with their eyes shut, for the purpose of facilitating their corres-
pondence ? I think no one.
I have not written this last section so much to strengthen my
present position of universal connexion, as to avoid the appearance
of inconsistency ; and to furnish an excellent, analogy to a part of
mesmerism, which has not yet received its due share of attention.
It is this : that some subjects have the capacity of going into the
mesmeric state, from sheer belief that the mesmerizer is operating
upon them.
Elucidation. The susceptibility of the" subject is excited by
his anticipating the result, in a similar manner to that in which it
had been excited on a previous occasion, when in presence of the
mesmerizer ; which renders him susceptible to the same result.—
And, though it may be urged that he absorbs the principle for
30 UNIVERSAL CONNEXION.
confirming his anticipation, from his mesmerizer, with whom he
may be in communication, it seems reasonable to suppose that a
great part of the confirming principle is absorbed from the general
reservoir; which confirming principles, however, is often modified
by his susceptibility, in such a manner as will place him in com-
munication with no one, save the person whom he supposed to be
mesmerizing him.
Again ;
we can better communicate with those whom we know,
than with strangers ; because the connexion of the fluids of, our
nervous systems has been rendered stronger by dint of repeated
approximation, correspondence, &c. The strength of this connexion
is augmented by long-continued and frequent correspondence ; and
is weakened by distance, and the length of time which that distance
may be continued. In a word, this condition is governed by the
common laws of connexion and absorption.
Besides what has already been advanced in favor of universal
connexion, it only remains for me to refer the reader to the mani-
festations of this law, in its powerful effects upon tribes, communi-
ties, neighborhoods, and nations, to satisfy him entirely of its validity.
Why do the different members of a tribe possess the same gene-
ral character—the same ideas of G-od and eternity—the same mea-
sure of justice, &c, with each other ? Because of the general com-
mingling of the mesmeric fluid of their systems, by the laws of
mutual absorption—of action and re-action—of equilibrium, &c.
It has been disputed (upon what ground I know not) that a "ge-
neral idea ". ever existed. In my opinion, general ideas are not
at all unusual. For instance : neighborhoods and communities
entertain the same general idea of right and wrong—the same
general regard for the wonderful—the same disposition towards
hospitality, &c. I know that imitadveness may have its especial
weight in some of these things ; it may teach men to construct the
same kind of dwellings—to adopt similar forms and customs in
living ; but it will never teach them to think alike—it will never
excite them to mutual enthusiasm upon a particular doctrine of
religion (numerous, and startling instances of which, every reader
must have before his mind,) no ; it requires a more potent law of
nature, to accomplish these purposes ; that which spreads the me-
dium of thought throughout the habitable globe, and forms a uni-
versal connexion between all mankind ! In extended nations too,
this principle is still manifest ; though diminishing in strength as it
extends ; according to the distance to which it is carried, &c. I
might adduce many other evidences of equal weight with these
that I have briefly given ; but, thinking that I have already said
enough to illustrate the point in question, I shall reserve the more
elaborate discussion of it for a future occasion.
In conclusion, I can see nothing particularly eccentric in the
opinion that there exists a universal medium of thought, which
UNIVERSAL CONNEXION. 31
may be capable of conveying any modification, from the human
system, that may be consigned to it ; especially when I reflect that
there does exist a certain universal medium which is capable of
conveying modifications in the form of epidemic diseases, &c, a
striking instance of which, we have in the Asiatic Cholera ; which
spread its invincible terrors throughout the earth !
CHAPTER III.
Clairvoyance, or the ability to see through substances which
are opaque with respect to common light, is one of the most dim-
cult conditions which mesmerism now aims to produce. I have
premised an explanation of this phenomenon in the commence-
ment of this work.
By this faculty, the subject is enabled to see through space, and
substance, having the universal connecting principle for the me-
dium of his mental vision, to an immense distance ; when he ac-
tually sees objects as they exist, without being informed of their
condition in any other manner. And, as his mental vision is not
restrained by any external apparatus, as is the natural vision, he
has no 'difficulty on this account, in discerning small objects at a
distance, with the same facility, as large ones. I suppose, in some
instances, however, when a subject gives an account of what is
passing at a distance, that he establishes a communication with
some individual who is present at the scene which he is con-
templating ; and thus, although at considerable distance from that
individual, gains his information from him, by local absorption.
This, however, is very difficult to determine.
This state of mental lucidity too, has also been manifested with-
out the aid of mesmerftm, as in the cases of young Yarnell, (the
Frankford boy) Emanuel Sweedenborge, and some others.
PART III.
consequences' of mesmerism.
CHAPTER I.
The general Adoption of mesmerism into any community, must
be attended with the most important results. At present, however,
the subject is enveloped in such mystery, and the usual explana-
tions of its phenomena savour so much of the magic, and astound-
ing, that the attention of the mass is attracted more by its novelty
than its usefulness—more through a desire to be astonished, than
to be enlightened. Oftentimes too, its phenomena are so startling
and unaccountable, as to cause even those who have produced
them, to doubt the evidence of their own senses. This -state of
things is calculated to give rise to ample scope for the propagation
of quackery. For, whilst those of the multitude persist in grasping
at what they consider the ridiculous, the absurd, rather than the
plain and intelligible, whilst they evince a sickly desire to be de-
ceived, rather than fail in their attempt to be astonished, there will
always be found those who are prepared to cram their gaping
mouths with that loo palatable nostrum—vulgarly termed " hum-
bug." And until the subject takes a more scientific turn than it
has heretofore enjoyed, these evils are des^ned to continue and in-
crease.
Owing, too, to the great ignorance which is prevalent upon the
subject, joined to this love of the wonderful, many radical, and
ofttimes hazardous errors will continually be committed ; and igno-
rant operators will often become dupes to their own folly.
In almost every branch of mesmerism, many false, impressions
may be made upon the subject ;
(i. e. such impressions as are made
by causes which escape the detection of the unwary operator,)
which produce delusive phenomena—in appearance, so much like
genuine ones, that it is often a matter of great delicacy to separate
the two classes. For instance, in endeavoring to produce clair-
voyant results, much care is necessary to be taken, lest the subject
be influenced by the minds of those around him ; as in mental cor-
CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM. 33
respondence, which would totally destroy the genuineness of the
result. I have often. met with this kind of confusion, and where it
is not sufficiently guarded against in cases of the examination of
internal diseases, the most dangerous consequences may ensue.
I have seen dupes, too,^ to this^rror, where I thought that I had least
reason to look for them—even among those who had gained some
notoriety as mesmerizers, I have found cases in which they com-
sidered the statements of one recipient, upon a particular subject,
greatly corroborated by the corresponding statements of several
other recipients, when it must have been evident beyond a doubt,
to any'one acquainted with the subject, that there were false im-
pressions produced by local absorption, i. e. mental correspondence
between the operator and recipient. Such apparent errors, whether
committed through ignorance, or for the, purpose of deceiving,
often form the connecting link between the sublime and ridicu-
lous, and furnish our opponents with abundant material for raillery.
Indeed, owing to the rare satisfactory production of the clair-
voyant state, many of our modern mesmerizers, who have not been
able to produce it, doubt the existence of it altogether; I for some
time, did the same, but since I have given the subject a careful
examination, I no longer hesitate to yield it my support.
On the other hand, a few modern operators claim for mesme-
rism, a condition ofprophetic vision. I have met with several re-
markable, and seemingly unaccountable phenomena of this kind ;
which I forbear inserting, because I have not yet adopted the
hypothesis, yet I am far from being prepared to reject it. This,
indeed, would seem like crossing the threshold of the spiritual
world, and would throw consternation upon many who should
consider it an ungodly attempt to elevate man beyond his proper
sphere. I would, however, calm the fears of such, as well as allay
any expectation that may be. abroad, of a general participation in
this novel branch of ontology, with the words of Rev. Mr. Town-
shend, who says, " In being permitted to view the mesmeric state,
there is nothing to make man proud ; but all to make him humble.
Then too, mesmerism has its restrictions which keep it low to
earth; even while it hints to heaven. Many are the conditions
required for its accomplishment. Carefully hedged about, is it, by
the barriers of opposing will ; by defective sensibility; even by a
spirit of skepticism. Its highest capacities are exercised with dif-
ficulty—its loftiest wonders are few and fleeting."
CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM.
CHAPTER II.
The chief advantage that we have thus far gained from m'esme~
fism, is its healing virtues ; which cannot be too highly esteemed,
As a remedial agent, it is the most natural, and most effectual
means with which nature's God has endowed us. It has already-
severed the compact long established between death and several
formidable diseases; and is the most potent antagonist with* which
that last visitant of mortals has to contend. When judiciously ap-
plied, it has often been found successful in the cure of 'Nervous
Headache, Chronic Pains, that excruciating malady the Tooth-
ache, Convulsions, Locked-Jaw, St. Vitus Dance, Tic Douloureux,
Catalepsy, Spinal Disease, Blindness, and many other maladies
that "flesh is heir to."
Its usefulness in producing insensibility- of the system in cases of
surgical operations, is incalculable. Yet many of our Medical In-
stitutions deny the reality of mesmerism altogether, and, regarding
it as a species of chicanery, have closed, and barred, and sealed
their doors against it; so that they will neither admit it, nor are
they likely to discern from their isolated stronghold. " what man-
ner- of thing" it is, that they have thus excluded. A remarkable
instance of this character recently occurred in on^ccasion of
a report being read, of a case of the amputation of a limb, without
causing pain, whilst the patient was under mesmeric influence.
But I need not now record the inconsistent, I might justly say, the
contemptible conduct, of some of the members of upon
this occasion, as it must be remembered by all, to have been total-
ly unworthy of such men ; and must long remain a stigma on their
philosophic pretentions, whilst it will stand as a sturdy column
of patience, in the annals of mesmerism.
Much stress has been placed on the assertion "that, if mesme-
rism really posesses the dignity that it claims, it would 'have been
brought to light by the regularly bred man of science ; and not
have been left to the investigation of a few obscure individuals."
But have we not regularly bred men of science engaged in its ad-
vocacy? What are Dr. Eliottson and Dr. Collyer ? What are the
hosts of German and French Professors ? It is true that some
other intelligent and benevolent persons have entered the field as
mesmerizers, and efficient ones too. I shall not, however, essay
to palliate the gross inconsistency of some not being learned men ;
for I esteem truth equally pure, beautiful, and valuable, whether it
flows through the channel of the unsophisticated, unbiased reason of.
Nature's favored pupil, or the hedged intellect of him, who,
reared within the precints of the nursery's walls, has been taught
CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM. 35
byJiis college axioms, to revere with sacred awe, the preconcep-
tifns of his respective preceptor. And in fact, I begin to fear that
if our Medical Schools still persist with their blindness, in excluding
a knowledge of the very fundamental laws of the human economy
from their regular course of instruction, the time is not far off,
when their diplomas will be regarded as but a pitiful testimony of
medical knowledge. .
Did my limits permit, I might name many benevolent and per-
severing mesmerizers, in this country and in Europe, who have
successively applied mesmerism as a medical agent—who have
eradicated several diseases between which and death, scarcely a sha-
dow was discernable—who have repelled some of the most loath-
some, and ugliest enemies to health, that venture to assail our
species ; and who have reared monuments to the triumph of mes-
merism, which the indifference, the bigotry, and the prejudice of
ten thousand medical institutions cannot overthrow ; as it is, I may
not, nor have I room to give the particulars of but few ofthe many
cases with which I have met, of the successful application of this
ageht as a therapuetic. Dr. Collyer relates a case in which a per-
son apparently dead, and whose coffin had already been procured,
was resuscitated by its application; and I cannot too forcibly im-
press its importance in this capacity, upon the mind of every phi-
lanthropist. Undoubtedly, many persons are supposed dead, long
before they really are so ; and as long as a single spark of vitality
remains upon the system, especially if the system has been formerly
rendered susceptible to the mesmeric influence, a mesmeric com-
munication may be established, by which a 'departing spirit
might often be recalled to inhabit for a while longer, its earthly
home.
It is worthy of remark in this place, that in an attempt to introduce
any new remedy into medical practice, the innovator is required in
the outset, to perform cures in the most hopeless cases that can be
found; which have baffled the efficacy of every established mode
of practice. He must perform miracles, and repeat them, under
every possible disadvantage ; and, this too, in the very infancy of
his art, before he is able to bring his remedy into notice. •
This is
emphatically the case with respect to mesmerism, which is not
only capable of curing diseases which all other known remedies
have failed to cure ; but, when judiciously applied, is a very
pleasant, prompt, and safe cure for many others which are often
successfully treated by the usual modes of practice. In short, its
influence imparts general vigor to the declining system; and in
cases in which only a part of the system is affected, and the system
generally is brought under mesmeric influence, the affected part
will, by a natural right and capacity, absorb to itself, the healthy
fluid which its convalescence requires, according to that valuable
law of equilibrium, before alluded to.
36 CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM.
Upon the healthy system, too, its judicious application may he
repeated day after day, without any disadvantageous results.
Besides this, the healing virtues of mesmerism aspire to purposes
of a far more exalted character; they purpose to heal diseases of
the mind—to restore to health the wandering intellect—to bring
back departed reason—to assuage the mental woes of afflicted man,
with a power and precision, at which no other remedy ever yet
aimed. Repeated cases of both total and partial insanity, have
been cured by them. A variety of the most important and thril-
ling mental phenomena that can be imagined, have come within
the scope of my immediate practice. For an example^ I will in-
sert the following brief notice of an interesting case. From the
Reading Gazette, Nov. 18, 1843:
—
"I first saw Miss H , of Reading, Pa., (the subject ofthe above
mentioned operation,) at a public lecture which I gave at that place
Nov. 13th, 1843. On this occasion she was led forward to the plat-
form incompany with another, desiring to be mesmerized. I ob-
served at the time, a peculiar reservedness in her manner, for which
I did not then attempt to account ;
yet I have since attributed it to
the real state of her mind. Amid the very limited opportunity of
learning the character of a subject, and the usual restlessness and en-
thusiasm exhibited at such public lectures, in this country, I seated
the above mentioned young lady. But, after exciting her suscepti-
bility, ajid commencing the absorption, I was led, by observing the
eccentric progress of the operation, to apprehend some unusual phe-
nomenon : which prompted me to desist from throwing her into the
state, before the audience. I therefore, removed the influence, and
concluded my lecture with some other experiments ; immediately
after which, feeling interested in the case of Miss H., I obtained a
private introduction to her, and during the same evening, performed
the operation alluded to by Mr. Miller.
Instead of an elaborate history of this case, suffice it to be said,
that Miss H. had given her affections to a certain gentleman, Mr.
T , of R , which had been but illy requited by him.
This, her reason was unable to support—she became broken
hearted—in a word, a monomaniac. In a fit of calmness, however,
when reason presided over the passions, when self control held the
sway over the more tender feelings, she resolved, through the
agency of mesmerism, to banish from her mind, all remembrance
of the joyless past.
When I took her out of the stale, she was a different being !
Instead of that wan, dejected look, which, but a few minutes before
had marked her features, and beneath which reason itself seemed
to reel, there now beamed from her cheerful countenance, all that
sprightly joyousness so characteristic of health, youth, and inno-
cence ; not even a vestage of her former sadness remained; he
who had harrassed her mind, found no longer a place in her afTee-
CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM. 37
tions ; when his name was mentioned, she denied having ever
heard it before—when the circumstances were alluded to, she did
not recognize them. The facts seemed to have vanished from her
mind, as though they had never existed.
In reply to my questions, she said that she had forgotten nothing,
but that a great weight had been removed from her mind, and
that she felt unusually and unaccountably happy. Some days af-
ter this, she was. intentionally brought face to face with him she
had once known and loved ; and it was a moment of the most
thrilling interest to her skeptical friends, who were acquainted
with the facts, when they observed the modest, unchanging ex-
pression of her features, as she said " she had not before met him."
This state of things continued for two weeks. In the mean time
some notice of the facts had been taken by the public prints, which
gave rise to circumstances that rendered it necessary to procure a
greater amount of evidence than was then extant, to prove that
the lady had ever made the statement to her friend, concerning
Mr. T.
In the condition of affairs I was again called : I stated to Miss
H., that to prevent her friends becoming involved in serious diffi-
culties, she must be mesmerized, and throw herself upon our gen-
erosity for a few minutes.
Without comprehending what was to be done, she consented
;
I mesmerized her, and desiring her to recall all the circumstances
which I had formerly caused her to forget, took her out of the
state, w^hen she raised her eyes, and immediately burst into a
flood of tears. Here again I recognized ihe features of her who
had been led forward at my lecture. I shall not attempt to delini-
ate the feelings of any one present ; words cannot convey an idea
of the anguish depicted in that appealing look of despair.—All her
former grief had returned, and with it, a remembrance of all the
particulars concerning him she had loved.
She at first, refused to answer any questions concerning him ;
but, after telling her the necessity of the tale being re-told, and that
she snould in a few minutes forget all again, she recited, as calmly
as possible, the particulars of the source of her woes : when, hav-
ing obtained .the necessary evidence, I again closed the scence, and
in a few minutes more re-awoke her to* the enjoyment of cheerful-
ness, health, and happiness. The statement which she had just
given, corresponded exactly with that given to her friend just two
weeks before.
Elucidation. The impressions made upon the brain, by the
painful circumstances in question, had become "diseased by the
continued increase of the active principle upon them ; whicli ren-
dered them peculiarly susceptible to the re-action of the inactive
principle. By an effort, the subject allayed the excitement of the
impressions : thus causing the parts containing them, to absorb an
•
1
3S CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM.
abundance of positive mesmerism, which displaced the active
principle, and rendered the impressions too faint to be recognized
by the mind, when in the normal state.
This power to allay the excitement of a mental impression, is
not peculiar to the mesmeric state ; it is but an extension of the
same capacity which many of us can exercise in a low degree,
whilst in the normal state.*
Several months after the above had occurred, and a short time
previous to this work going to press, I addressed a letter to Mr.
Miller, wishing to know the final termination of this case. The
following is a copy of-his letter in reply.
Reading, April 1th, 1844.
Dr. A. Yorke.
Sir.^I have received yours of the 1st inst., asking information
concerning the case of Miss H -, and as you desire that I shall
be careful that the evidence be accurate and impartial, I shall say
nothing for which I cannot vouch.
About one month after your departure from Reading, Mr.
T , the young man who she said caused the trouble, was
taken to the house of Miss H , and asked her "do youknow
me?" she replied "yes;" but denied the circumstances. The
next day, my wife, in my presence, went into a detail of every
thing which she had said concerning the transaction, and of what
had been done for her relief. It appeared to me, that during the
recital a light was dawning upon her mind, when finished, she
declared it was all true, and that she remembered it distinctly.
Yet I could detect no appearance of grief or sorrow, neither at that
time, or since. She now associates with Mr. T , but appears
to consider him as an acquaintance only.
I am very respectfully yours,
W. R. Miller.
By this letter it is shown that a knowledge of the forgotten cir-
cumstances has been recalled ; this, however, for along time*with-
stood the daily efforts of her acquaintances, who, as they could not
believe the existence of the phenomenon, used every means in
their power, to bring back to her mind, the forgotten facts. The
value of the operation, however, has not been lessened in the
slightest degree by thistermination ; for the remembrance of the
facts has returned
—
stripped of all its grief and sorrow, a know-
ledge of the facts has been restored to her perceptive faculties ; but
the exiled woes that formerly attended them, will never return to
their native home—the propensities.
*See the conclusion of this chapter for an elucidation of the recalling of the
facts which had been forgotten.
CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM; 39
"
It will be said, that time would have had the same effect in re-
moving the grief from the mind of Miss H . So it might :
but it would have exhausted and impaired her system, to have
waited for the cure of that tardy physician.—And this is what I
have prevented by mesmerism.
Finally. View this mesmeric phenomena in every particular
trace it carefully down through all its various stages, until -it is
lost in the normal state ; and it will greatly corroborate my posi-
tion respecting the homogeneousness of the phenomena of two
conditions.
The use of mesmerism in educating, too, is invaluable; and in
this, it is, that the value of the capacity to excite the different facul-
ties of the mind is chiefly manifested. The moral faculties of the
subject may be stimulated t*> increased action ; whilst the animal
propensities, where their action is too strong, may be subdued.
The perceptive and reflective faculties may be rendered more ac-
tive : which will add strength to the powers of memory and reason.
In fact, the whole man may be rej^Kiied. All the finer quali-
ties of the mind may be made to flny their greatness; whilst
the courser'ones are made subservllff to them. Facts, too, the
particulars of which had been forgotten years before, which it had
baffled every ordinary effort of the mind to recall, have, through
this agency, been brought back to the knowledge of the subject,
with every circumstance connected with them, as distinctly deline-
ated, as though they had occurred within the last hour.
Elucidation. The knowledge thus recalled, although it had
been dormant in the memory for years, h*L never yet gone out of
it ; i. e. the impressions made upon the brain by the deposites of
fluid, modified by the external causes of sensation, which were
present years before, had never yet been entirely erased, although
the lapse of time, by dint of the law of equilibrium, might have
rendered them very faint. These faint impressions are now
aroused by concentrating the whole attention upon them, using
contagious impressions (as in cases of ordinary recollection,) to
point them out: the effect of this, is to excite the susceptibility of
the pans of the system containing the impressions in question ; thus
causing them to absorb from the general reservoir, the active
principle necessary for the confirmation of the impressions.
It will be seen that there is nothing here proposed, but what has
already been premised, namely : an extension of our natural men-
tal capacities. In this case, an increase of the power of recollection.
The above faint outline of an explanation, which has been given
that I may not subject myself tothe same charge of inconsistency
that I»
B
have brought against others, in the forepart of this work,
for leaving their assertions in too crude a state to merit belief, em-
braces a portion of my theory of memory, at which I have already
hinted several times, namely : That each external cause of sensa-
40' CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM.
tidn produces a peculiar modification of the mesmeric fluid, which
is then deposited upon an appropriate part of the nervous system,
where its peculiar import is recognized .by the mind. That the
strength' of this peculiar modification, depends upon the degree of
concentration, with which it is made, the qualities and the quan-
tity of the confirming principle, the length of time that its action
is continued, the lapse of time .from the cessation of its action un-
til it is again called forth, &c. And that an external cause of sen-
sation, bearing a relation to that which formerly produced the
resident modification, is capable of producing, a modification,
which, by its congeneality will commingle with the former dor-
mant modification, and excite its susceptibility to a re-supply of
the confirming principle, and thus reproduce the original mental
impression. But I have rather digressed from my subject; I shall
now return to it, leaving the special consideration of memory, for
a future occasion.
*
CHAPTER III.
The great, benevolent, and legitimate design of clairvoyance^
seems to be the examination of internal diseases.
By this capacity,.a lucid subject will often. point out the diseased
parts of the system, either of himself or of another, with the great-
est accuracy. This, hmvever, I am inclined to think, is often done
by a peculiar modification of clairvoyance ; which enables the sub-
ject to see with greater facility, on account of his close communi-
cation with the patient, than he otherwise could do. (This pur-
pose, too, is often effected without the necessity of clairvoyance.
I think that it may also be practically applied to other benevolent
purposes.
This necessity for benevolence, in true hicid mesmeric phenome-
na, is a sad poser to many of our mercenary would-be-skeptics. It
is the part of mesmerism, which above all others, they are least
willing should be true ! If, says one, you can prove the truth of
clairvoyance, under any circumstances whatsoever, I shall be sure
to double my wealth next year, by digging up hidden treasures
&c. In fact some such mercenary attempts have already been
made, the results of which I need not mention ; as the mesmeric
vis operandi requires an exercise of benevolence ; and certainly
there is nothing particularly benevolent in the proposition #of our
opponent, who, when he finds his anticipations foiled by fhe very
spirit of the subject, sneers at what he tries to consider a happy
hit on the part of mesmerism, to avoid scrutiny.
CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM. 41
We want more benevolence in the world : or rather, we want a
greater exercise of that faculty than we now have. And until
men cease to pervert their noble mental endowments, until they
become convinced that "the love of money is the root of all evil,"
the most lamentable evidence of which has been developed in
every age of the world, mesmerism can never, and will never be-
come a subject of general use and application.
Each one of ninety-nine persons, out of every hundred with
whom we meet, (in this country at least,) is eagerly striving to
swallow up the substance of the remaining ninety-eight—a thing
in itself, morally impossible, the whole soul seems absorbed in the
one ideal, the greatest of all possible follies—an attempt to get rich,
a thing in which no sane man ever yet succeeded.
Every efficient mesmerizer, I think, can attest to the justice of
my remarks upon the high office which the benevolent feelings
perform in the vis^operandi. We know that when we are suddenly
called upon to throw a patient into the mesmeric state, who is suf-
fering in any way, and our sympathies are excited by his condi-
tion, (making every allowance for his susceptibility,) we are capa-
ble of exercising a degree of power, to which we are entire
strangers, when operating merely for the sake of experiment. In
the former case, we find our subject passing into a deep and tran-
quil state, with an ease and a rapidity, which plainly show us that
Ave are really at work ! Whilst in the latter, the effort that we
are often compelled to make, teaches us that there is a want of
stimulas, and that our power is a mere plaything, when benevolence
is not enlisted.
Mesmerism, like many other useful things that we have confided
to our charge, is liable to some extent of abuse ; I am satisfied,
however, that the apprehensions on this account, of many who
have but partially examined the subject, are entirely ungrounded.
From the tenor of my former remarks, it will be seen, I thi-nk,
that the laws which govern mesmerism, will, in a most beautiful
manner, confine the exercise of its higher powers, to those to whom
it naturally and properly belongs. And I am fully persuaded that
much more evil will result from ignorance, than design. Experi-
ence, too, fully corroborates this opinion ; for, whilst we have re-
ports, almost weekly, of unpleasant results arising from the mal-
practice of some incompetent operator, we have but few, if even
one solitary authentic instance, of the power having been designed-
ly abused, since Mesmer first introduced the subject in Europe,
nearly a century ago.
I anticipate that my theory of local absorption and exhaustion,
given in my modus operandi, may, at first thought, be called into
question in this place. I will, therefore, subject it to the test.
There we see that the activity of a faculty of the operator, reduces
the activity of the corresponding one of the subject : the same will
6
44 CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM. >
be the case here. —If the operator's design toward the subject is
evil, the faculties of destructiveness, secretiveness, cautiousness,
combativetiess, &c, will necessarily be active. This, indeed, would
tend to exhaust the corresponding faculties of the subject ; and
could this state of things continue unchanged, the most dangerous
results might be looked for. But, where is the thing in human
shape so void of conscientiousness, that is able to keep up an un-
remitting determination to injure, in any way, a person who has
just confided himself to his protection ? And unless he is capable
of exercising such natural, such demonical concentration, his pur-
pose must utterly fail. For at most, he can only exercise his de-
structive faculties alternately with his better feelings, which will
cause a confused re-action—the subject will become restless—will
grow alarmed—and although he knows not why, will oppose the
efforts of the operator ; thus, a feeling of antipathy is established,
and the susceptibility of the subject is destroyed. But even sup-
posing that he should succeed in inducing the state, the subject,
upon any injury being offered him, would immediately arouse his
energies, and throw off the influence. For nineteen subjects out
of twenty, are capable of coming out of the state at will; and the
reason of their not generally doing so, is that their condition is a
pleasant one. But just as soon as the state becomes unpleasant, just
so soon, will they call their energies into action, and come out of it.
And even in those cases in which they do not possess this pow-
er, their failing in their attempt to exercise it, will throw them into
convulsions ; which is the most disastrous consequence that I can
conceive, of actual designed abuse of the mesmeric power.
I cannot, however, be too positive in my denunciations against
the attempts of persons to mesmerize, who have never examined
the nature of the subject, especially^when their motive is mere
curiosity. In attempting to relieve the suffering, they will be
less.likely to do harm ; but even should they do so, would be far
more excusable, than under the former circumstances.
From an unwary practice of this kind, I have known very seri-
ous consequences to ensue. Persons are thrown into a profound
mesmeric state, from which the untutored operator finds it impos-
sible to arouse them ; and the most fearful, and painful convulsions
often result from such temerity. During my visit to Easton, last
summer, I was called to remove the influence from a young man
who had been suffering painful spasms and convulsions, for forty-
eight hours, in consequence of having been mesmerized by an in-
competent person. Whilst in Lebanon, Pa., last December, I was
called about midnight ; when I arrived, I found the family in the
utmost consternation, on account of a young lady being thrown
into a deep mesmeric state, by a child only eight years old, from
which state, they found it impossible to arouse her. But I need
not multiply instances ; I have said enough to show the reader
CONSEQUENCES OP MESMERISM. 43
that certain laws are connected with this power, without a compe-
tent knowledge of which, it is a thing that should not be tampered
with.
I consider it of no small importance, that the mesmerizer should
possess good mental parts ; for the impressions made by re-absorp-
tion, are often permanent. But to discuss this matter in detail,
would occupy more room than I can here allot to it.
CHAPTER IV.
There is a stage in mesmerism, in which the subject tells us that
he sees heaven, fye. This is analogous, if not identical with the
ecstatic state of religious enthusiasts. The most material differ-
ence that I have marked, is the greater degree of coolness exhibited
in the former case. I have not unfrequently listened to the most
unpassioned, connected, and majestically sublime descriptions
given by my subjects, of the world of spirits—in excellent keeping
with the vision of Paul. I took a subject out of this state, who
was fully conscious of having spent a whole year in heaven ; and
retained a distinct recollection of all that had passed there. Now,
I am not prepared to say that my subjects held an actual commu-
nication with departed spirits, &c, yet, from what I already know
of mesmerism, I have no philosophic evidence that they did not.
It must be admitted, however, that the descriptions which they
give us, may generally be ascribed to impressions which they have
received in some other manner.
Finally. A subject under mesmeric influence, may be made to
experience any variety of sensation, which may be suggested to
his susceptibility. He may be made to feel hot or cold, hungry, &c.
He may be made to partake of a hearty dinner, with all the sensa-
tions of one who is really eating ; and, even if hungry before
being mesmerized, may be taken out of the state with his appetite
fully satisfied, and remain fully convinced that he has eaten ! In
fact, I can conceive of no impression whatever, that he may not
be made to experience !
In perusing an assiduous investigation of this important subject,
I have spared no pains whatever, to arrive at its true laws. At
every step that I have taken, I have been startled by the light of
some new phenomenon. In testing the power which one mind
possesses over another, I have often stood amazed at what I my-
self have done. I see that mesmerism has suddenly spread out to
our view, a new, extensive, and fertile field of moral philosophy,
which the mind of Plato, of Democritus, of Des Cartes, of Bacon,
14 CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM. .
of Locke, of Leibnitz, and of Reid, never entered ; and what may
we not expect from a faithful gleaning of its productions ? When
we bring the conditions of natural somnambulism, trance, religious
excitement, dreaming, &c, under the laws of mesmerism, have we
not a light thrown upon them, of which our most sanguine hopes
never before dreamed ? When we find ourselves possessed of
feelings and notions of which we would fain be free, we refer them
to the laws of mesmerism, and from them expect relief. Nor are
we any longer at loss to account for the phenomena of persua-
sion, love, attachment, friendship, &c, with their opposites. We
can also see reason in the laws of mesmerism, why the sympathetic
parts of systems, have an affinity for each other.—This will in-
form us why woman are inclined to kissing in their salutations,
why men join their hands, and why the natives of the South Sea
Islands join the ends of their noses, on similar occasions. They
inform us, too, why we are inclined to embrace those of whom we
are fond. They reveal the secret of the mysterious power which
has ever been justly attributed to lover's eyes •
and explain why
the hands of trembling lovers are wont to meet ; and why, when
they come in contact, a mysterious, thrilling sensation is sent
throughout the whole system.
By a philosophic and impartial investigation of this profound
subject, we are enabled to discern a beam of rational light shedding
its grateful rays upon many of the most important passages of the
Holy Writ, which have heretofore been shrouded in mystery so
dense and incomprehensible, that they have not only made skep-
tics of all rational men, but have exhausted the faith of even the
most devoted bigots. For whether the ancient prophets, the
Witch of Endor, Jesus Christ and his apostles ever enquired into
the modus operandi of what is now called mesmerism, or not,
doubtless they were well acquainted with the existence of this
power and its principal results. And whether the theologians of
the present day, are willing to take up the sublime study of this
subject, and, by giving it the zealous attention which its dignity,
importance, and profundity demand, avail themselves of an invalu-
able assistance in their professional expositions, or not, doubtless
the time is come, when the incongruous, artificial readings of many
passages of the Holy Scriptures, are often heard from the pulpit,
with feelings of mingled pity and disgust for the timorous dupe of
either his own ignorance, or his too great devotedness to the es-
tablished dictates of man, in preference to those of his reason, his
conscience, and the true spirit of the Sacred Record.
By an examination, too, of this subject, we find no difficulty in
explaining the causes which gave rise to the superstitious notions
of witchcraft, and the sanguinary deeds .which too often accompa-
nied them. And one great lesson which we are all being taught
by the havoc that mesmerism is making of our skepticism, is this,
CONSEQUENCES OF MESMERISM. 45
namely : not to denounce any subject until we have examined it
let its first appearance be ever so absurd or ridiculous.
I cannot close these hasty pages, without first soliciting the seri-
ous attention of physicians generally, to a thorough investigation
of this subject, which bears an immediate relation between them
and the greatest interests of mankind. I know that many who
are engaged in the healing art, still remain skeptics upon this mat-
ter ; and I can only express my regret that they have been so un-
fortunate, as not to have met with circumstances which might have
convinced them of their error. And whilst I acknowledge every
due feeling of toleration for a moderate share of skepticism, in
matters which at first seem repulsive to our reason, I cannot but
think that there is sufficient light now abroad upon this subject, to
arouse to action, the sleeping energies of every well wisher of
mankind ; and as this light can no longer be hidden from the com-
munity, skepticism will no longer screen the ignorance of medical
practitioners. But there are also many medical -willing skeptics, who
are fully convinced of the efficacy of mesmerism, yet fear to own
it. They tell us that they have "characters to lose !" that they
" do not wish their names mentioned, in connexion with mesmer-
ism, for fear of injury to their practice ! ! Can there be any im-
aginable, pusillanimous position, more repulsive to the feelings of
nature, of justice, and of humanityjthan this ? . Popular prejudice,
I know, makes sad inroads upon the moral courage of feeble man ;
but I ask in very pity, how can any man, possessing one spark of hu-
man feeling, be moved by mercenary motives, to withhold his
support from what he knows would be of benefit to his suffering
patients? How can he, with a shadow of conscience, or of moral
principle, for the sake of " filthy lucre," compare the lives and
health of his confiding and supplicating patients, to the 'price of a
few sordid dollars? He who can do this, certainly subjects him-
self to the just censure of every true friend of benevolence; and
renders himself unworthy of the name which marks his species. I
do not wish to appear severe in this place, upon the faculty ; for I
am pleading the cause of suffering humanity ! and call rather with
the voice of supplication, than of demand. I wish, if possible, to
impress the importance of the subject upon the minds of all who
are engaged in the healing art —to encourage them to an investiga-
tion of it. They will find that their labors will be more than
compensated by their acquaintance with this " ne plus ultra" of
modern materia medica. And if any one should lose, for a while, the
empty smiles of the prejudiced, or even be minus a few dollars at
the end of the year, I fearlessly promise that he shall be doubly
repaid, by the consciousness of having done his duty !
In conclusion. There is much yet to be learned of this subject.
Much delicacy and patience are necessary in the investigation of
it ; and every one who commences the investigation with skepti-
46 CONSEQUENCES OP MESMERISM.
cal feelings, can only advance in his knowledge, step by step. It
should be borne in mind, too, that throughout nearly the whole prac-
tical part of the subject, much depends on susceptibility, a branch
which I intend to treat more largely on a future occasion than the
limits of these pages could possibly permit. There are many
other important branches too, belonging immediately to this sub-
ject, which I have entirely omitted, some, for want of space to ex-
plain them, and others, because they do not properly belong to a
work, not professing to be a practical one. I have, however, in
preparation, an elaborate work on Historical and Comparative
Mesmerism; in which I shall fully discuss every thing that may.
seem to have a direct bearing upon the subject.
FINIS.
[From the Reading Gazette, Nov. 18, 1843.]
ASTONISHING RESULTS OF MESMERISM.
" Thou canst not administer to a mind diseased." Shakspeare.
Notwithstanding Shakspeare has thus written, events that have transpired,
during the present week have convinced me, that if Diseases of the Mind
could not be removed in his day, they can in this ; and I cannot rest satisfied
without informing the afflicted, that ' there is a Balm in Gilead,' ' a cure for
wounded hearts.'
A few evenings since, being in company with Dr. Yorke, he for the gratifi-
cation of the company, consented to magnetize a young lady, and while she
was in the state, he was informed of a desire on the part of the lady to forget
some circumstances which had lately occurred, and which were a source of
great uneasiness to her. The Doctor having satisfied himself of the fact, im-
mediately willed her to forget the circumstance and persons connected there-
with ; the result of which has been very satisfactory. The lady has not been
able since to recall the name of any of the parties, denying ever having known
them; and although the strictest watch has been kept upon her countenance,
not the slightest emotion has been visible, eyen when the circumstances have
been directly alluded to. Previous to the operation, however, she was moved
to tears by the slightest allusion to them.
There have also been several other cases of a similar character, which have
fallen under my notice, in which the power of Mesmerism as applied by Dr,
Yorke, has been equally successful.
Any persons desirous of availing thmselves of the efficacy of Mesmerism, and
wishing to be more fully informed as to the correctness of the above statement,
can, by referring to me, obtain ample evidence of its truth.
WILLIAM R. MILLER,
Franklin street,
Reading, Nov. 18, 1843..
NOTICE.
The Author of 'Absorption,* will continue to impart instructions personally,
and by letter, on the practical application of Mesmerism, to Medical Practi-
tioners, generally, and other competent persons.
TERMS.—Per course Fifty Dollars.
N. B. Single lessons, or letters, or any number less than a complete course,
will be given at Five Dollars each, to such only as have already obtained
some knowledge of the subject.
Reason is the Philosopher's highway to truth. Experience, the best
monitor of even fools, has placed facts along for way-marks, to guide him on
his journey. Hence
" He who will not reason, is a bigot ;
He who cannot reason, is a fool ;
And he who dares not reason, is a slave."
