{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__a_convalescent___spectral_visitants_or_journal_of_a_fever.pdf","mytitle":"Spectral Visitants Or Journal Of A Fever","mylang":"de"}
srEGTRAL VISITAKTS,
.
OR
JOURNAL OF A FEVER.
:
BY
A CONVALESCENT ~
" Fantastic forms - cnf=rrieras 11trange and wild,
S pring from a fevered brain ."
PORTLANb :
S H . COLESWORTHY ,
BOSTON :
H LIBURTON & DUDLEY.
ie45 ,
"
,,
......
... ......
. ..
. .
. .......
... ....
?syc
COPYRIGHT SECURED ACCORDING TO LAW .
F1 (,;\ q
F
,. 1 \
Ii ~\..i=-
THURSTON, ILSLEY & CO., Printers nod Stereotypers.
......
... ..
.......
...
...... ...
INTRODUCTION.
SICKNESS and pain are often teaching us important les-
sons, which we learn slowly and reluctnntly. These lessons
are sometimes of great value - more instrurtive, doubtless,
to the sufferer than they can be to others.
Few attempts are made to explain to others one <'lass of
lessons in sickness, which are doubtless more frequently
learned than remembered. I refer to the strange pbanta-
sies an<l hallucinations of a disordered brain.
There is reason to believe, that these are very common
in fevers, and in some other forms of disease, and that they
sometimes occasion great suffering, which might be wholly
relieved, or greatly mitigated, were both the patient and
the attendants acquainted beforehand vvith such phenomena.
It is greatly to ue clesired, that the operations of the
mind, both in its normal an<l its disordered states, should
be more thoroughly and generally studied than they have
liJeen. The hnp)Jy influence of this, both in sickness and in
health, will be clistinetly seen when tho subject is better
understood.
It is a happy omen, that obstacles to the study are dimin-
ishecl, anrl works on the mi11<l nre beginning to attract atten-
tion in schools and uc!lflctnies, <rnd in the fomily cii:cle;
nnd, that successful efrorts have been made to present the
subject in a manner to be stuclied and underst9ocl by the
''"'·'n~ S'tO '1~'
The "YouTu's BooK ON THE l\1 IND ii* is 11ow st11clied
with <lecp interest in common schocils, nnd can Lie profitalily
introduced u11iversally to tho more advanced classes of our
common schools, an<l prepare youthful minds to enter upon
more extensive and difficult works at an early period. It
may be studied with profit in every family.
'f he more extensive works of Professor Upham tam be-
coming deservedly popular in high schools, aca<lemies and
colleges, an<l his treatise on "D1soRO~RED lYlENTAL Ac-
TJON," t ought to be as extensively known. Indeed, it
ought to be thoroughly studied by all who are in <langer of
being sick, or liaLle to be entrusted with the care of the
sick.
Readers of The New Englander~ will thank Preside11t
Hitchcock for a very interesting description of his own ex-
perience of optical illusions in sickness, and they will find
instruction in the effort of Prof. Fiske, to explain the same
on philosophical principles, whether they adopt all his co11-
elusions or not.
The letters in this volume were \Vritten as they purport
to have been, and at the place and elates they IJear, while
the wr iter was recoveri11g from siclrness. They were
written not for publication, but as a means of employment
to the mind, which would be constantly actiYc in some way,
although the body was too \Yeak to endure much action.
They were sent to a (li~tant, anxious wife, ns a mea ns nf
beguiling the ti111e of our separation, ancl giving her a di .~ ­
tinct view of the phenomena, desc:ribed ":hilc they were
fresh in the memory.
They are now given to the puhlic, in nccorda11ce with
wi:shes frequently expressed by those who sympathised with
* Publislwd by William Hyde, Porll and. Embra.ciucr au out-
line view of the three departments - the Inte llect Se11~ibilities
a nd Will. ' '
t Elements of l\le11tal Philo:;ophy, in three vol:;. Vol. l The
Intellect; II, The Sensibilities; III, The Will. N. York; Har-
per & Brothers.
±By Harper & Brothers.
II .New Englander for April, 1845.
The writP.r in sickne-ss, or who ha \·e since learned something
of the hnllucinatiomi here described. They are given with
very slight revi:;ions of the urnr1t1script, and will not, per-
haps, e1idure a scn~re criticism as to style, any l;etter than
the feeble frame which pennecl them, would then Lear
rough handling. But the '" riter has chosen to leave the
letters es:;entially as first written, rather tbnn re-write with
a view to 111ore elegance of composition.
It is hoped tlrnse descriptions may be of some service, to
those who niay read them, if they shall ever experience
similar illusions, and that they may aid those who bave care
of the sick in understanding and properly treating the ca:<:e
of patients visited by similar spectres.
The writer is deeply indebted to a previous acriuaintance
with works on Mental Philosophy, and previous observa-
tion and analysis of mental illusions. Without this kno\'.'·
!Prlge soiuc of the speclrt'3 would have Leen distressingly
annoyiug, whereas with it they were easily disarmed or
controllecl, and in most cases were exceedingly amusing.
THE AUTHOR.
MAY 24, 184.1).
PREBLE ST. HousE, PoRTLANn, JAN. 29, 1845.
MY DEAR vVrFE :-It is three weeks to-day since
we parted, and what scenes have passed in this brief
period! I have been on the borders of the grave,
and you have experienced anguish such as has ne-
ver been your lot before in the more than twelve
years of our married life. I can believe you when
you say "The bitterest grief of all has come; that
you should be sick and I not able to come to you."
And again "It may be that I may be called to bear
the only trial which seems past endurance #.' * *
Yon know better what I am suffering than I can
tell you, and you know that God has given me a
strong heart) but this suspense is racking. 0 ifyou
were but at home so I could nurse you, or at least
pray with you ! I3ut it cannot be-we have learn-
ed to submit, let us do so now."
Yes, I can understand you when you write thus.
A strong heart and a true one gives utterance to its
swellings in truthful words which a husband can
well understand when recovering from sickness so
8
'.'Sudden and sev·ere as mine has been. Thank God
the pressure of disease is rem10Yed anct I feel that I
am rapidly recmrering.
I can now understand ho.w my fit~t letter should
have given n. heavy hlo\ aftc·r the clays of snspens
in which you expected my return. Yet when J
wrote it I supposed it was a. very sensible letter, and
one that would relieve youz <J:.nxiety. The truth is..
I was h~lf insane-reeling under the secon<l, or
pleuritic att<J;ck of my disease ; and the letter was.
a desperate· effort o rcI1cve you of anxiety and
bring S. to my help. But I trust the last mail has.
carriBd you evidence ofreturning health ·vihich will
lift "the black cloud'' you speak of and bring snn-
shine to your heart. My Physician encourges me
in the hope of riding out to-morrow, and thinks if
very careful, and. if no accident oc·cu:ir, I may ride
home in a week from that ti1ne. I som,etimes fee]1a
ittle impatient at s0: long de}ay, but have assured
the Dr. I shall wait for his pass-word. I am strong-
ly inclined to fill up this time, in part, in writing
you a description of my sickness, and of the Spec-
tral Visitants, of which I gave a hint in on~ of
my letters. Some of those visitOJ:s will a:muse you
if I can succeed in desc1ibing them.
I bdieve the premonitory symptoms c,if disease
\Vere npon me before· I left home ; and during the
remainder of the week there were frequent sensa-
tions unusual ·with me. I had a capricious morbid
·ap.p.etite ; and an indescribable heaviness, and an
indecision, which I could not shake off I had sev-
eral items of business which I found it exceedingly
difficult to. snm1nons. reso.lnti.o.n to ~ttend to... Sev-
nal tl ttempts to purchase <.1, cooki11g stoYe all prornd
failures; although the most favorable terms and
conditions were offered. Finding I should not fin-
ish my business till late on Saturday, I sought and
secured an exchange for the Sabbath in the parish
in Falmouth, where we had lived for a time; and
where you had enjoyed life so well.
On Thursday evening I attended the Installation
of Officers in the Ancient Brothers Lodge, and on
Saturday evening, in the Ligonia Lodge, in both of
which I was courteously invited to officiate as Ch~p­
lain. Friday evening I spent with the 'Washing-
tonians, in the City Hall; and addressed them,_by
request. After the Installation on Saturday even-
ing, which closed a little before 9 o'clock, I came to
this house where I had put np, found my horse in
readiness as I had directecl. ancl started for Fal-
, "
mouth as the bell was ringing, having engaged to
reach there by ten o'clock. 'rhe lodge room was
warm and comfortable, and the services delightful,
the Grand Master, Rev. James Pratt officiating. I
think I had unusual enjoyment in 1he devotional
~ervices, and the solemn, breathless ~tillness, during
prayers was very impressive. But there was a sense
of weariness and a dull pain i~1 my side and back,
which made it hard to sit up-right. In riding to
Falmouth, I found the night air chilling, although
it was not a very cold night, and unfortunately, as
it was dark, I missed the road, and strayed away
011 to the Plain road. I could not see the track, the
'· p<my·' troubled me with effort , to call at the hou-
::J:-:-) · that T cam1_, near being thrown out~ more
t! :tn °11<'C.
10
·when I arrived it was five minutes past ten
o'clock ; and my_feet and hands were suffering with
cold. I could not unharness till I had warmed, and
found relief from this suffering. After thoroughly
bathing my feet, and taking warm drink, I retired
in a warm bed and was soon lost in sleep. But a-
bout midnight I woke in great distress in my side
and back, and with a strange diziness in my head.
I at first resolved to rise immediately, and let my
sufferings be known, but then I remembered that
there was no man who could go for a physician,
and I feared the chill of the night air if I left a
warm bed. I also doubted my ability to put on my
clothes and go down stairs, and find the way to the
sitting room. So I tossed and groaned and sought
relief in vain, till five o'clock. My breathing had
become groaning, and gasping ; and every respira-
tion seemed like driving a sharp knjfe through my
body. I knew I .must get relief or die. With a
desperate .ejfoTt I -Uressed and went down stairs, I
knew not how. The cold air ofthe house increased
the difficulty so that for ::t time it seemed as if every
breath must be the last. Mrs. G. was suddenly
roused by my groans, and arose and kindled a fire
so that my breathing was slightly relieved. I then
called for cold water and drank two tumblers which
had stood in the pail and was nearly frozen. She
went to the nearest house and sent a man for Dr.
S. During her absence I found the water and drank
some four tumblers more. This checked my raging
thirst, and relieved my breathing greatly ; and soon
the pain subsided, so that when the Dr. arrived,
scarcely any remained. He was anxious to take
11
blood, but I desired delay. I was not reconciled to
being sick away from home, and I felt afraid of
the effect of bleeding on my intended journey, and
also on my system. I did not think it necessary,
after the pain was r.elieved, but consented to send
for him, for that purpose, if the pain should return.
I took from him an emetic and its effect was to re-
lieve the stomach of a large amount of bilious mat-
ter of a formidable character. In the P. M. I was
so far relieved that I prevailed on friends as they
returned from meeting to harness my horse and
suffer me to go into Portland. rrhis was opposed
with great earnestness, and I suppose they thought
me insane to attempt it. But my reasons were co-
gent. I desired if possible to go home next day.-
If this could not be, I wished to write home. If I
nrnst be sick away from home, I greatly desired to
be in the midst of brethren of the order which I al-
ready regarded with interest. I reached this place
without serious injury, and immediately sent for
Bro. R. to counsel me as to a Physcian. But I must
close this letter here abruptly.
Your Affectionate
HUSBAND.
LET'rER II.
PREBLE ST. HousE JAN. 30, 1845.
MY DEAR S.-You will remember this as my
birth day, completing my fortieth year. You have
heard me sometimes express a sort of presentiment
that I should not see forty,years. This feeling pro-
bably had no more substantial basis than that my
father died at 38, and the fact that so many broth-
ers and sisters have fallen around me. But here
1 am) after a severe attack, passing the day which
closes two score years, with fine prospects of reco\~­
ery) and of permanent health. I left the narrative
_
of my sickness at the point of my return to this city.
I was now in the care ofOdd Fellows and soon found
bymy side Dr. G. a Physician) whose views ofmycase
seemed just and reasonable; and in whom, from the
first, I had implicit confidence. He is the nephew
I believe of a late Governor in New Hampshire, of
the same name; and has had a first rate rn.edical
education. Then his sagacity, and penetration ;
his clear eye, looking right thwngh ones difficulties,
and his cool persevering decision in directing his
remedies-the most simple that will answer-right
to the point, and stopping short when the point is
gained. All these qualities have commanded. my
admiration and won my heart. I verjly believe
that the entire confidence I reposed in him, has had
great influence in securing the result~ his prescrip-
tions were designed -to reach. On Sabbath evening
I think he ordered nothing but hot bathing of the
1')
.)
feet, witl1 a generous jJOrtiou of mustard iu the wa-
ter, and a free use of not lemonade as a drink. The
brethren desired. I would have watchers but I thought
i1 needless ; and I do dot think I suffered in conse-
t1uence. I think it very certain that one event oc-
curred that night which might have been interfered
wi1h; had watchers been present, I mean a solemn
review of the past, and a careful survey of my pres-
<'n t position, a.nd prospects. I saw by the Dr's.
nuumPr that he viewed me as in acritical,.yethope-
ful ~itnation ; and learned that his plan of treat-
ment '"ro11ld delay my return at least one or two
rlays. I knew you would expect me Monclay with-
out fail, and would be very anxious. I supposed 1
could send no word which would reach you till it
shonld go by Tuesday's mail. I felt that my case
was critical-that a slight cause would prostrate
me. I was not sure but my ride from F. had been
seriously injurious, although I had suffered nothing
till after I had been in the house for sometime-and
then it ~was but a slight difficulty of breathing and
pain in my side, which the hot bathing had nearly
removed.
A~ I lay upon my bed my mind seemed instinct-
iv ly dra1vn to such a review as I have mentioned
alJo-rn. It required a great effort to follow the im-
pulse of my feelings referred to. I was very wealr
and my head seemed heavy and oppressed. I could
not bnt reflect how desparate would be my case,
now if l were c: \Vithout hope." I had freedom in
prayer and :ome delight iii it-and what was
rnorc important, I btained at length great strength
and . upport in going through the scrutiny vhich
~ eeml d to be demanrlcd.
14
I thought first upon my ministry ; and there were
some recollections very pleasant-I could see some
fruit and rejoice in it ; but still much of it looked
dark and barren. I felt some desire to be restored
to my pulpit again ; hoping I might -preia,ch better.
The impenitence of numbers of the young people of
my Congregation hung heavy on my heart, and the
tears flowed freely, as I thought perhaps my want
of fidelity may be the cause of their ruin. I plead
for mercy in view of the defects and imperfections
of my ministry, and for my young friends who for
two years had attended upon it with no saving bene-
fit. The answer to prayer seemed only "God will
do right." And this was enough.
I then reviewed my relations to my family. I
seemed to look in upon you all as in a quiet afternoon,
but you could not see me ;-and, as yet, knew not
of my sickness. The boys were busy with books
and play. The little twins were sitting on the floor
and you were sewing, and rocking little Charlies
cradle, with your foot. The rest of the family were
busy about the house, so I did not notice them. All at
once, the little twins seemed to see me and Agnes,
in her arch way, sung out, "tate tare thei;e," "see
there," Marion lifted up her hands with that quiet
imploring look which asked me to take her up; and
her sweet voice thrilled through me as she said,
"eh, eh, eh." But I could not get to them.-I
seemed fettered, and my heart ached. The burn-
ing questions came home to me; as the sternest reali-
ty, '(Can you leave this little group? Can you
trust them ·to the Providence of God, in a world of
sin? Can you believe that the ·widow's God will
15
sustain that mother and those helpless ones?" My
heart faltered a little time, but then firmly answer-
ed, "YE , I CAN." I WILL-Father I leave them in
tliy care. Then I seemed to see how you would be
provided for. I saw that S. and M. would stand by
you so long as you needed them. I thought with
their help, you would be able to open a school
which would yield some support, while educating
the children. Or else you would have some board-
ers. I saw that the members of the church and so-
ciety, would be kind to you, and I knew the Odd
Fellows would not let you suffer. I saw clearly
that if the little band at H. were to be unable to
provide for you as they would desire, here were
scores of strong hearts that would be open to your
necessities. I was content ; and felt perfectly at
rest.
I thought on my pecuniary embarrasments, and
felt as if the strongest desire of my heart, on this
subject, was to be frustrated. I should not live to
pay the last debt. But I did not feel condemned or
reproach myself with intentional wrong, either in
contracting the debts, or in my inability to pay
them. I thought of the man who had deprived me
of the power to pay these, and stripped from me, by
sheer fraud, more than four thousand dollars, which
was more than six times the amount of all my debts.
But I could forgive him, and say, Father forgive
him, he knows not vvhat he has done. My heart
bled for him, in view of what seemed to be the re-
tribution awaiting him, even in this life, for pecuni-
ary transactions like that, which had prostrated me
and p1y dependent family.
16
I ihought of your severe sickness ; arnl felt as if
I had never been able to sympathize with you as I
could now, having never been sick myself. It seem-
ed to me that if I should be well again, I could do
better in these matters. As to my prospects, if call-
ed to die, I could say little for them, save that my
trust in G-Gd was strong and unwavering. I had no
rapturous anticipations-no certain evidence that I
should be permitted to dwell with God. But I had
an overwhelming sense of the justice, goodness, and
Glory of God, which made me keep whispering,
God will do right.-I:le will do just right. I close
again in haste, Y om Affectionate
HUSBAND.
LETTER III.
PREBLE ST. HousE, .TA~.; 31, 184;3.
MY DEAR S.-My sheet was full yesterday, be-
fore I thought to tell you that I rode out, and breath-
ed the free, bracing air ; and felt it thrilling through
my whole system. I also went dow;1 stairs to break-
fast and dinner. I have also taken breakfast below
this morning, and am gaining strength rapidly. I
enjoyed, last evening, pleasant visits from three of
om H. friends. One of them Bro. G. has promised
to call and tell you that he has seen me, which I
~appose will be some satisfaction ; although, at his
fl rst call, I was rather stupid from weariness ; it be-
ing 0118 part of my system to gain strength by task-
in£ myself to wea:ri110.ss every dCty.
, y lust letter closed \Vlth a review which occur-
recl on Sabbath night, and which has left my mind
in a 1·cry peaceful state c\rer since. It aTRo left mP
in a state to sccnrc a tolerable share of quiet sleep
that night: so that on Monday, I rose quite bright,
Y<'t witlt cousiderable fever npon me. It being ne-
<'Pssary to secure an effective operation of physic,
l >r. Cf. prescribed accorclingly, ancl with complete
~nee ss ;-1:io that my fever was considerably reduced.
l felt at 11ight that watchers would be needless, ancl
prevailed on the brethren to dispense 'vith them
again and leave me alone. The night passed quiefly
and on 'I'uesday morning my symptoms were bet-
ter ; so that the Dr. gave me encouragement, thai
if I would keep q11iet through the day, I might pos-
sibly ride a little way towards home on "\Vednesday,
should no reverse occur, and should the <lay be very
pleasant. But there was still npon me a good deal
of fever, notwithstanding the great rnlief I had ex-
perienced. I can now see that my mincl ·was :reel-
ing, and I unwittingly committed a serious fanlt.
Intent on going home next day, I forgot, almost im-
rnediately, the condition prescribed by Dr. G. oi
keeping qnjet through the day; and I reasoned
.·ornewhat plausibly from the premises which I re-
tained into the conclnsion that it was proper for me
to walk ont. The rcasonin g -..vas on this wise : If
[ can ride a considerable distance towards II. tomor-
r w, i l i snrely safe to -..valk out a little time to-clt1 y;
and C\ pe ially us I need additional flannels· for my
jonnwy. So being pretty much at my O\Vll <1i~po-
5.ul, I wrc pprd up with some care, borro-..1
:cd a cane
at tlw ofllee. and went out, and made scver::ll calls.
18
purchased flannels, and spoke for a piece of plank
or board to heat for our feet, as I was to have a
\
companion. I was out as I supposed but a short
time, and thought I felt much better for it; although
it was very annoying to have people stare at me
with such anxious, earnest gaze, as if I were doing
some strange thing. The entreaties and remon-
strances of Mr. F. and his family, also made me feel
unpleasantly, yet I persevered and went out, even a
second time, and I am told that I walked down to
the Post Office, but of this I have no recollection.-
Nor dare I depend upon memory as to the length
of time, of these excursions. My impression has
been, that one was about ten minutes and the other,
about fifteen. I am told that I was out an hour at
one time. It was a very cold raw day, and had I
not been beside myself, I should have known that
it was very wrong to go out thus. But as it was, I
thought I felt better, and should be better prepared
-~ go to H. next day. My friends, I afterwards
··, learned, felf far othei:wise. One Brother said he
'\vouid rather have given fifty dollars than to see me
coming·into his store. I suppose my letter to Bro.
B. reached H. that evening, but I have no recollec-
tion of its contents. I believe I was more nearly in-
sane, or more insane that evening than I had been,
yet this was not discovered, and I remained still
without watchers, notwithstanding the wishes of my
brethren. A boy brought in two pieces of board
which we were to put at our feet next day, and I
recollect putting them near the stove to heat, and of
thus filling the room with smoke. I rose from sleep
nearly suffocated, and I then put them on top of the
.....vn,-it bemg an air tight with a high border.-
Here again they filled the room with smoke, and
again woke me, to find the room excessively heated.
I then placed them back near their old position, be-
hind the stove. I recollect going to open the door,
and ventilated the room three times, in the course
of the night; and of suffering very much from ex-
tremes of heat and cold. I now feel sure that I
must have heated the stove red hot, more than once,
otherwise I could not have burnt the boards as their
appearance shows.
I suffered much in the course of the night; and in
the morning was in a very miserable condition. I
knew that a new attack was upon me, and that I
was in a worse c~ndition than before. Yet I rose
in the morning burning with fever, and a severe
pain in my side. I saw it snowing furiously, but I
put on two pairs of flannels and drawers, called for,
and settled by bill, and put myself in readiness to
start before the Dr. came. Yet I felt that it would
be only going home to die, or starting to die on the
way, and when the Dr. came, I was quite ready to
yield the point, lay aside my extra clothing, and take
my bed. I do not know the time of day when he
called, but I recollect that before noon Niss F. came
and offered to take care of me, and I gladly accep-
ted the offer. I believe I had previously consulted
the Dr. about sending for S. and he strongly recom-
mended it. I think the letter I sent you must have
been written in the P. M. and I sent for lVIr. M. the
driver, to come and sec me, so as to be sure of see-
ing S. by the next stage. I think it was in the even-
ing call that Dr. G. having learned that I walked
20
out the a ~rv before, questioned me rn regard to lt and
.eemed to .feel much grieved, and as though I had
done very wrong. As I can now vie\V the case
I do not wonder at this. It was indeed tre::i.ting
him very rudely, but I thought nothing of it at the
time) and supposed I was doing right. I did not
think the ·walking out had injured me, and I still
feel sure that the injury I received in the night, was
far more serious than that t recieved by going out
dnring the day. I believe it was on Wednesday
that he first ordered a mustard poultice upon my
side, which had become very'painful. My congh
was extremely annoying, and the mucus which was
ihrmvn off freely, was highly colored and very of-
fensive. Still the lungs were not affected, but my
apprehensions were quite serjous, that the disease
might soon attack my lungs or brain; and in either
case, I felt that the result might be fatal. I have
been in the habit of tasking both so severely, that I
f;Upposed I must meet a heavy penalty in case of
disease in either. On Wednesday evening I was
quite content to have watchers, and Bro. M. of the
H. L. and another Br. were with me through the
night.
I have already brought the journal of my sickness
beyond the time of the commencement of my spec-
tral vjsitants, and it will be more simple and intel-
ligible; if I continue the narrative down to the crisis
of my fever, and the commencement ofmy recovery.
I can then group the visitors into a more definite and
distinct view. But niy sheet is full. I have only
time to say that I rose at six this morning, and did
not lie do-\·1
.rn till n ar fonr P. M. Rode out nnd
21
made calls-Dined at Bro. Us. and wa::; absent from
half past eleven, till half past three.
Your Affectionate
HusBAr\D.
PREBLE ST. HousE, .FEB. 1, 1845.
1\1Y DEAR S.--Your letter is received, and like
all from the same source has been read three or four
times, and with increasing interest. I regret to learn
that your own health improves so little, but perhaps
we could not rationally expect it to be otherwise,
under the pressure of such anxiety as has been upon
yon of late. I long to return and have strength to
relieve you of some part of the load of care which
yon cannot e<:tsily shake off in my absence. We
will hope that Dr. G's. prescriptions will meet your
necessities, and that soon we may meet with renew-
ed vigor, and increasing faith, to pursue life's jour-
ney with a :firmer step than ever.
1\'Iy letter of yesterday brought down the thread
of my disease to Wednesday evening, January 15.
How much allowance must be made in that narra-
tive, aud in the three or four days following, on the
~:core of disordered mental action, and impaired
memory, I will not say. I write in accordance with
my recollections, having daily recorclPd incidents
after S. came to aid me. l\Jy spectral visitllnts com-
menced on Tne~day e rening, and c ntinnecl verr
22
evening till the crisis of my disease) on Sabbath
evening the 19th. But these I omit) till we have
traced the progress .of disease to that point. The
disease was now Pleuretis. 'The pain and inflamma-
tion in my side was becommg mo1~e and more for-
midable. The mucus membrane was also much
inflamed, the mucus being streaked with blood,
and otherwise highly colored. The fever still con-
tinued with considerable violence, my cough very
distressing, and no permanent relief gained by mild-
er means, on Thursday evening about nine o'clock,
Dr. G. resorted to the Lancet, and with some difl.i-
culty took from me a considerable quantity ofblood.
A sensible relief in some respects followed this.-
The pressure and haziness of my head were less.
My cough and breathing did not distress my side
quite so severely.
The attention given me by night, an,
d by day,
was now of the most thorough and effective kind.
Two good brethren of the Order, were by my side
every night, acting out with the feelings of a broth-
er, the principles of Odd Fellowship, as applied to
the care of the sick. Every thing necessary for my
comfort and well-being was sent in to me, from -
various quarters. By day Miss P. did everythjng
which could be done, supplying a lack of experi-
ence by a tact.and skill, which few could so well
exhibit. Through the day on Friday, the disease
continued with only slight and temporary checks in
those features I can most distinctly recollect. My
side having been pretty thorougly irritated with
mustard, was crowned with a blister. The annoy-
ance of this upon the surface was almost equal to
23
the pam within, and I sometimes fancied there wa3
a sort of contest between the two, to see which
should be most successful in securing my attention,
and trying my patience. At evening S. arrived
bringing your letter,~ and warm sympathies, and
warm flannels. I believe I cried for joy, for I had
become a mere child, and when I had fairly en-
wrapped myself in the flannel dress, it seemed as if
my prospects of recovery were greatly increased. I
recollected you had two or three times recovered in
it from severe sickness, and it became to me at once
a sort of talisman. Then I had such unbounded
confidence in sisters skill in nursing me that I al-
most fancied I had begun to get well. The blister
was dressed in the evening; and in the morning was
found well filled. I have little recollection of the
day on Saturday, except ofthe unwearied and cheer-
ful exertions of S. while I could not help discover-
ing that her heart was heavy, and her fears great.
I remember too having numerous calls from breth-
ren of the Order, and from personal friends, among
whom were four ministering brethren. Bro. D. had
been in to see me previously. I remember how very
soothing was the voice of Prayer, leaving a)wcet
refreshing sensation long after the brethren left me.
Yet I was so weak in body and mind, that I seem-
ed incapable of following them, except as I took
fast hold of their hands. I never before conceived
what power there is in prayer, in certain stages of
disease ; although I have often noticed very visible
effects when officiating by the bed ofthe sick. The
reading of the Scriptures too by my watchers, \Vas
very soothing. I was generally able to designate
1ehapters I desired read, and it seen1ed to me that
those passages \Vere never half so lovely and im·
pressive before. My sickness seemed a vivid com.
mentary or expositor, which made the sjmplest pas..
:sages radiant \Vith light, and fuH of power and
::;weetne·ss. On the Sabbath my disease was less
violent, and my mind in a state to appreciate the
day in som-
e degree. I had numerous visitors, and
among them Brs. D. at 1100!1, and C. at evening. I
had a strong conviction that my case was mentioned,
and prayers offered in each of the Congregational
Societies in the city, and also in the beloved church
in H. ; and I knew very well that in my own fami·
ly there \Vas such prayer, as none but a Wife and
Mother can offer. During the day I seemed to be
getting strength of faith, that some good would come
of all this. Then the prayers of the ministering,
and one or two lay brethren by my side, -..vherc I could
grasp their hands, seemed full of encomage1p.ent.-·
This feeling was peculiarly strong about sunset,
when Bro. C. visited me, and gave me·to understand
that prayer had been offered for me in the congre-
gation. He gave m.e some ideas of a sermon from
1st John 3: 2. which he had preached that after-
noon to M:r. D's people, as they had exchanged.-
This at once revived some previous thoughts upon
the passage which I had enjoyed, having preached
extempore upon it several times, in different parts
of the State. After he left) in the dusk of evening,
as Bro. M. was- sitting by me, I fell into a sort of
reverie, and a scene of transcendent loveliness and
beauty passed before me, producing intense emotion
and enjoyment. I reserve any description of the
25
,scene to the closing up of my spectral visitants. It
is sufficient to say here that this scene seemed to
stani in immediate connection with the crisis of my
disease. When I returned from the fancied excur~
sion, it was with a degree of mental energy and self-
possessioni I had not before experienced since the be-
ginning of my sickness. I could then see that I had
from the first been laboring under strong mental ex-
citement, and more or less of disordered mental
action. I felt that the violence of disease was now
broken, and that I should again recover. I was then
conscious of my weakness. Up to this time the excite-
ment of fever, and of my mind had given me a sort
of forced and unnatural strength. Now I felt great
weakness of body, and yet great strength of faith.
I thought I understood what Paul meant when he
said, " When I am weak, then am I strong." " His
strength is made perfect in my weakness." I was
happy-happy for your sake and the children. I
knew that my escape had been narrow indeed, and
I felt that deliverance had come in answer to prayer.
From that hour m r<~covery has been rapid-won-
derfully so. The hand of God is in it, and I hope
to join you soon to speak of his goodness.
Your Affectionate
Hu::>.AND.
LE1.,TER V.
PREBLE ST. HousE, FEB., 2, 1845.
l\'.Iy DEAR S.-lt is the holy Sabbath. Its still-
ness is very little disturbed by secular movements,
and it seems indeed a day of rest. I do pot propose
2
to continue the jonrnal of my sickness, or to med-
dle with those spectres, of which I have bid you to
expect a description. I reserve all these for another
day. But I can hardly i'efrain from writing you a
few reflections which crowd upon me, and which
I have no disposition to restrain. One is the sur-
prising change in my health, and the progress of
recovery since the... period where my last letter closed.
Two weeks ago to-day the fever was still upon me,
and till evening my mind in some degree reeled and
staggered under a load I could not. easily throw off,
or sustain. Now I seem to have no disease, I enjoy
food, and find strength greatly increased. Then it
was'with trembling limbs and faltering step I could
go from my bed to a chair, with one to steady and
sustain me. Now I walk with a-firm rapid step. I
went yesterday to the P. 0. and made several calls.
Then I could sit up but a short time in a day;
now I rise at six, and scarcely lie down till eight or
nine in the evening. Then I could follow a minis-
tering brother in a short prayer; only by grasping
his hand firmly. To-day I have been to church,
and listened to the ordinary morning services, though
it must be confessed, with some weariness of body
and drowsy dullness of mind. Yet I enjoyed it so
much as to determine on another trial this P. M.-
No other effort yet seems so easy to me as writing;
perhaps because in no other effort does the affection
and sympathy of wife and children come so fully
to my aid.
Another thought which fills me with wonder and
gratitude, is that with. af! this disease and exposure
my brain and lungs have been spared. 1 feltthis eve~
27
in the most hazy periods of my sickness, as I have
before stated. It seemed to me certain that if eith-
er my lungs or brain1 should be attacked, my case
must be hopeless. I have used and tasked both so
severely, that I could expect no release if either
should be seriously iniiamed. I can but adore a
merciful Providence that shielded and sustained me,
and spared to me these important organs. I would
hope for farther use of them in his service ; whether
with more fidelity or more prudence than before, re-
mains to be seen.
Another pleasant thought is the wonderful care
and skill, with vvhich my disease has been treated.
It seems to me as if there were hardly another phy-
sician living, who could have done for me what Dr.
G. has done, and 1::>top just at the right place. ,.rhen
too, you know that while yonr hands are tied, no
one else could take care of me like S. So care-
ful-constant-efficient-safe-gentle. Every thing
wa:) done right. My watchers ·also; seemed to be
selected with ~pecial reference to my case. They
came in at the rjght time, prepared to do just what
'vas neede<l, arnl with the kindness and affection of
Brothers) giving ns no care, or anxious feelings in
:selecting and secm·jug them, and no solicitude about
their fidelity. Thi~ feature of Odd Fellowship is
most admirable. It calls ont and disciplines the
body of its members for service at the bed side of
sickness. It brings them there to illustrate the prin-
ciples of Friendship, Love and Trnth, and there is
a clw,rm in the development of fraternal feelings;
among those of nll trade~~ profrRsions, pariii:s and
28
denominations, in a way to exert a most soothing
and salutary influence upon the spirit ofa sick man.
It is a great thing in sickness to be free from all care
and anxiety, and to feel that all will be well.
Sabbath Evening.-The twilight is again here-
the still sacred twilight of a day of rest. I have re-
turned from the afternoon service to muse and won-
der and adore. For three Sabbaths in succession I
have been kept from the sanctuary by disease, an
occurrence which has not taken place before for
twenty-five years. For thirteen years, I have scarce-
ly been prevented from preaching for a single Sab-
bath. The privation I trust will be profitable. It
does help me to value the privileges ofthe s::mctoary,
as I could not value them before. The day has been
peculiarly interesting. Although we divided the
day between t\vo churches, the same voice proclaim-
ed the gospel in both; and it was the same that two
weeks ago about this hour, in soothing accents of
conversation and prayer, was instrumenta:l in pre-
pairing my mind for the revery to which I have
alluded, and which stands closely connected with
the crisis of my disease, and the commencement of
recovery. That voice will ever be dear to me on
account of the delightful associations connected with
that event. The text in the morning was Ecc..8 :
11. "Because sentence agajnst an evil work is not
executed speedily, therefore, the heart of the sons of
me is fully set in them to do eviV' It was a faith-
ful sermon, fitted to probe the heart and conscience,
kindly, and thoroughly.
In the P. M. the sermon was based upon the
29
declaration in 1st Peter, 2: 7. " Unto you therefore
which believe he is precious." The discussion of
the subje:::t was worthy of t!le text, and of the occa-
sion. It was a communion season, and after the
ermon we were privileged to celebrate his love, and
enjoy his preciousness in the memorials of our Lord,
which are fitted to keep us in remembrance of him.
My heart straggled with emotions which sought ut-
terance1as Bro. C. invited me to take part in the ad-
ministration of the SL1pper, but I felt that I ought not
in so much weakness, to attempt to speak. I need
not say that I very much desire to occupy again
my own pulpit, and preacl; of Christ more earnestly
than I have de
mo. It seems to me as if I could
preach better for this sickness. I am very sure that
many parts of the Bible read to me by watchers
never seemed so full of light and truth, and glo-
ry before, as since; and during my sickness.-
Never did I have a more full and satisfactory evi-
dence of .the truth and stability of the evangelical
system of doctrine in distinction from every system
which opposes it.
The doctrines of revealed religion, as unfolded
by the puritan fathers, and held by orthodox congre-
gationalists, I believe will stand the test and scruti-
ny which they must pass, and it is certain that the
soul can rest its hopes upon them with great com-
posure in the hour of trial, when heart and flesh
are failing.
It has been a matter of surprise and joy to me,
that, in the severest stages of my sickness, when
my mind was in its most excited and bewildered
30
state, at the very time when spectral appearances
were occurring every evening, with the exception
of one or two nights the Bible should have had
such power over me. I could hear two or three
chapters read in succession by the watchers withont
weariness, and every chapter and verse seemed per-
.vaded with heavenly light and comfort. I could
scarcely refrain from following up the reading with
a running comment, or preaching a sermon on each
verse. I must say one word also as to the power
of music. Two sisters of Col. F. have very sweet
voices, and they would occasionaly come in and
sing some gentle airs with soft soothing tones which
thrilled through and through me. Even at times
when it was necessary to exclude company almost
wholly, their music was to me a perfect spell, and
its happy effect would linger with me long after
they liad ceased. 1\1y sheet is full, and I have only
to write,
Your affectionate
HUSBAND.
LETTER VI.
PREBLE ST. HousE, FEB. 3. 1845.
MY DEAR S.-The sweet light of another morn-
ing finds me ·wakeful and ready to greet it. My
rest last night was unusually quiet, refreshing, and
almost uninterrupted. No injury was received by
going out to ·cliurch, and a sweet savor of the servL
ces of the sanctuary remains with me still. I have
strong hopes of securing the Dr.'s "Travelling pa[S
word," so as to leave here for home to-morrow but
'
I shall be entirely reconciled to his decision. This
31
chamber has for me, precious charms, which the
recollections of my sufferings here has no power to
destroy. I have had joys and discoveries here,
which I might well consent to purchase, at almost
any expense of suffering. Still home - "sweet
home," sends in a plea to my heart that urges me
in that direction, with a force I cannot describe ;
bnt, while detained, I will continue to write you; and
it is now time to introduce you to my spectres.
In the narrative of my sickness you will readily see
that some stages of it were well fitted to invite such
visitors. I esteem it a great favor that I had stud-
ied such phenomena in books on Philosophy. The
le sons we have learned together on these subjects
from Rush, Abercrombie, and more particularly the
works of Prof. Upham, enabled me to get along
with these visitors, and entertain them as I could
not have done otherwise. I knew how to manage
them, and thus was saved from a great deal of di -
tress. Indeed, they often gave me great amusement,
when, if I had been ignorant of their nature, they
would have driven me nearly or quite frantic. En-
thusiastic as I have .been in reference to the study
of Mental Philosephy, I never felt its value so deep-
ly, as in this sickness. I never felt so much grati-
tude for having been permitted to prepare a book
on the mind for the young, and thus attempting to
bring the study of Mental Philosophy in a systemat-
ic form in our common schools. W11e.i1 a second
edition is called for, I shall desire to add a chapter
on disordered mental action, and apparitions. You
recollect that some four or five causes of apparit-
ions and spe·ctral illusions are mentioned in the va-
rious works we have read. Neglect of letting blood
where persons had formed the habit of being bled
periodically, is one of those causes. Another is in-
flammation on the brain. Another, fever, or a high
state of febrile actim1. Another, hjgh excitement
of the nervous system. Another stiH1 the effect of
opium. Doubtless, in many cases, two or more of
these causes may be combined. I am -inclined to
believe that the chief cause of them in my case,
was fever. Perhaps the slight quantity o.f opium in
the powders I was taking, :may have contributed
their ·share, acting upon my highly strung nervous
and sanguine temperament. I do not think any of
the other causes had much to do with them. My
brain was not inflamed, although somewhat excited
- I have never been in the habit of periodical
blood-letting, and it is certain that bleeding did not
~estroy the spectral visits, although I believe th xt
were a little shorter, and less vividly defined after
that. My nervous system was doubtless much ex-
cited, but I believe it was generally under a pretty
firm and steady control of my will -when awake.
It is also certain that the spectres disappeared with
the breaking up of my fever on Sabbath evening.
We are now prepared to be introduced to
THE FLRST VISITORS.
This group, I believe, came in on Tuesday eve-
ning, not long after the twilight. Their position was
near the window, at the foot of my bed, and pre-
cisely where they must be effectually concealed
from me by the high foot-board; but the foot-board,
33
you must know, presented no obstructions, for I
could see through that as well as through my closed
lids. The most prominent figure in the group ,vas
an old physician. He was a very tall; gaunt, ro!.md
shouldered man, with a low, retreating forehead, a
to~.illy halcl hca<l, save a few white locks that
~treamed straight back from the back of his head,
just above his shabby coat collar. He had on an
old pair of iron bowed spectacles, resting on a very
long nose, so crooked as almost to form a semicircle.
His chin was long and sharp, so that it was almost
painful to see his nose and chin in such formidable
attitudes in relation to each other. I thought to
myself, you look more like "time in the primer"
than any one I have seen this long time. You only
need the "foretop," the hour-glass, and scythe, to
complete the picture. Theri I thought, perhaps he
has some other instrumen.t of death that will do as
well as a scythe; and the old couplet passed through
my mind as distinctly as if I had repeated it:-
"Time cuts down all,
Both great and small."
I was struck at his vacant stare and perplexed
a.ppearance; but immediately I saw the cause of it.
'There were some twelve or fifteen elderly matrons
in earnest conversation with him, and trying to in··
fluence his prescriptions. They were none of th~m
persons that I knew, but the general features of their
characters \'8re written in their faces as distinctly
as one coul<.l <lc~irc. The faces were not in general
very ugly, but nearly all were such as you would
not care to 1iYP in the hou~e with. even in health.-
34
Several of them \\rerc egregious snuff 1akers, of the
most offensive cast. The larger part of them wore
glasses, but r1ot all; and about two thirds had on
their bonnets and shawls. This was some comfort,
because I thought they did not all intend to stay.
But their honnets and extra garments were very an-
noying. They all seemed to pride themselves on
being superior nurses, and I wondered how they
could think of coming into the room of a sick pa··
tient with bonnets on. While they were talking ,
very earnestly to the doctor, one after another would
steal away from the group, and stand close to me
and there adjust her spectacles, and hitch back her
old bonnet and look at me with such a doleful look
as made me shudder. I was more than disgusted.
I was almost vexed enough to cane them. And yet
I saw they were all very well meaning people, and
desiring to do good, but I could plainly see they had
little hope in my case. But there the Dr. stood, en-
circled by his advisers> desiring to please them all,
and seeming to have as much confidence in their
opinions as in his own. But he was very much
perplexed. One was for giving me a hemlock sweat.
Another wanted to bathe me frequently in saleratus
water. Another thought salt and vinegar rubbed
on with a hot flannel would be altogether better.
Another insisted that there was nothing like new
rum to bathe with, as that would prevent the fever
from striking to my stornach, and bring it out on
the surface.
One was very earnest that I should have good hot
penny-royal tea; but another insisted that before
taking that, I ought to have a good strong dose of
Thorough-wort. Another was equally confident
that balm tea was the best thing I could possibly
take; and still another insisted that Hysop was bet-
ter than that. In the midst of all these pretensions
the old doctor was very much tried. I thought of
the maxim, "In the midst of counsellors there is
safety;" but instead of safety, the word perplexity
would come in, and I could not help it. But then
I thought, perhaps it is my safety. In such conflic-
ting counsellors, you are not likely to do either one
thing or another for me, and I shall luckily escape.
I saw there was very little chance for the Dr's. lan·
cet, epicach or jalap, and I was coming to feel quite
encouraged. One and another of the old ladies
gradually and mournfully retired. I began to re-
flect farther that I had not sent for this physician,
and that he had no business with me. I was under
the care of Dr. G., who knew what he was about,
and could prescribe without any such dictation. I
began to suspect that what I had seen were spectres, ,
and was about to address them as such, and show
them that I did not care for ~them, or want their
services ; but just then I opened my eyes and they
had fled, Dr. and all. This was a great point gain-
ed. I thought that speetres could not deceive me
again.
Your affectionate
HUSBAND.
35
LETTER VII.
PREBLE ST. HousE, FEB. 3, 184.5.
MY DEAR S.-1 find spectres so much more easily
disposed of now than when I had to wait upon
them, and my strength is so much improved that I
have commenced a second letter, and I will proceed
at once to introduce you to the next group of spec-
tres.
THE SECOND VISITORS.
This company visited me on 1Neclnesday evening,
I believe before the watchers came in. Miss F. had
taken care of me through the day, and I believe
was sitting in my room when the visitors came. I
had closed my eyes as was natural, to exclude the
light of the lamp. They were very weak from
excess of light through the day, as I had not real-
ized what was necessary to remove the an :~ o ra1J e
As I lay in this state, a group of young persous as-·
sembled. They came in, one, two and tliree at a
time, till their number was ten or twelve. They
seemed to have come in to see me, and manifest
their kind sympathies; but, after bestowing a little
attention upon me, they very naturally gave their
attention to each other. They were well dressed
young people from the country, and with such no-
tions of social intercourse as sometimes prevail in
country villages. None of them were very beautiful,
and none were decisively plain, or homely. Among
them were about four of the most mirthful, fun-lov-
ing faces I ever saw; and all were in good spirits.
There were three young men, the rest were
females, and all were ripe for a gale. They began
by playing bntton with all its forfeitures and penal-
ties exacted to the last farthing, and thns in various
games they spent a long time talking and langhing
merrily. I thought they were rather noisy for a sick
room : and if they knew how sick I was, I felt sure
they would not be so hoist rous. Ij thought; c: How
they will feel if I should die! They will think of
this evening with deep sorrow." I was about speak-
ing to them, and telling them that their noise dis-
turbed me very much; but then I reflected, these
are not young men and women, they are nothing
but spectres, and why should I let spectres trouble
me again when I have detected them once. But
this did not satisfy me. Something seemed to say,
''That cannot be-spectres never wear such young
funny faces as those are. You are not spectres, are
you T' By this time I remembered the effect of
opening my eyes in dispelling snch appearances,
and as soon as my eyes were opened, all the com-
pany fled.
THIRD VISITORS.
Thursday evening.-! am not quite sure whether
the group I am now to describe, appeared before the
watchers came or not. It was of so queer and noi'-
el a character, that I despair of giving you any
thing like a just impression of it. First came a box
nearly filled with water, and stationed itself direct-
ly across my bed, about six or eight inches aborn
my person and about midway from my face to the
foot board. The box ..was about eighteen inches
wide, and s~me fourteen or HJ inches deep, and four
38
or five feet long, being just long enough to reach
across my bed. The box then canted up, water
and all, so that the water, remaining stationary, as
when the box was level, stood at an angle of
about forty or forty-five degrees, so that with my
head pretty.well raised by pillows, I could look di-
rectly on the surface of the water with the greatest
ease. I now saw that the water, except a little
space around ·the border of the box was covered
with a group of living creatures, and all in unnatu-
ral positions. My attention was at once arrested,
and I was greatly interested. I thought withinmy-
self, if you are spectres, you are exceedingly in-
structive ones. "You teach me lessons in human
nature. You are all acting out of character, but
so are a large portion of the human race. How
many there are who have no personality, no char-
acter of their own; and are mere imitators of the
foibles and follies of others." I saw that all my
visitors were lying on their backs, on the surface of
that water, and all trying, in one way and another,
to attract my attention; but no one in his own ap-
propriate character. I now began to examine them
separately and leisurely, being fully aware that they
were nothing but spectres. The first was a medi-
um sized toad, lying,-like the others, on her back,
and endeavoring to look at me through a common
opera or quizzing glass. But the position of the eye
in her head was such as to render this impossible.
She tried every method to get the glass fairly before
her eye, but when this was accomplished, she could
only look back into the water. Then a desperate
39
effort was made to twist the head or the body, far
enough to bring her eye in the right position to look -
at me. But the effort was a failure. She was
obliged to give it up after all the kicking, scratching
and twisting it was possible for her to perpetrate. I
was about giving her some sage counsel in relation
to acting out of character, but my attention was
attracted by her left hand neighbor. This was a
large, resolute Bull-frog. Lying 111 the same posi-
tion, he was attempting bolder feats. He was en-
deavoring to put on a pair of common spectacles,
and at the same time to tie upon his nether jaws a
large pair of whiskers. One of the fore feet was
engaged in trying to confine the spectacles, and the
other in tying the whiskers; while the hinder legs
were in desperate commotion in trying to help the
others; but really, in making matters worse, and
spattering the water about in various directions, to
the annoyance of his associates as well as myself
I thought, as I looked at him and his utter failures,
"\Vell, you are, if possible a greater fool than your
neighbor, and yet many of my fellow creatures are
as silly as yon are; and then you are nothing but a
spectre.', About this time my attention was attract-
ed somewhat, by an interloper. A spider of con-
siderable size, had fastened a strong ·web, or thread
to a little iron staple in the plastering over one of
the foot posts, and thence to the upper corner of the
box, and having secured that quite thoroughly he
had made several ineffectual efforts to continue it,
and make it fast to my nose. But owing to the
distress I had in lying down, I had been bolstered
40
up, and my head was too high, so that his efforts to
get from the box to my nos3 proved a failure. He
finally gave it up, and retreated half way from the
box to the plastering, and there waited to watch the
progress of events, or lay other plans. I then re- ~
turned to examine more of my water visitors.
Next to the frog was a common mouse of medi-
um size, lying on his back, and endeavoring to tie
on a dickey. He had actually tied it on, and so
tight as to make him pant for breath, but then it
was not on right. The open part of it was directly
under the right eai:, and one corner of his dickey,
which was a thoroughly starched one, _
stuck up even
higher than his nose, and. the other corner rose in
the same way, passing directly up the backside of
his head. The poor fellow was screaching and'
scratchi~1g, and trying to turn and adjust that dick-
ey, but all to no purpose, only to annoy him still
more, by drawing the string still more closely round
his neck.
Next to him was a large house rat. He had
either been guilty of some misdemeanor, or was
afraid of some impending mischief, and was at-
tempting to conceal his real character. He was try-
ing to tie on a mask which would give him partly
the appearance of a weaslc, and partly that of a
lion. He had succeeded in_ tying it, but now the
trouble was, to conceal the ugly strings. He seem-
ed to know that these would betray him, and tried
to conceal them behind his ears; but in spite of all
efforts they would show and tell every beholder that
he wore a mask. It seemed strange to me that he
41
had not wit enough to know that his long tail would
betray him. This was flying round all the time he
was trying to conceal his mask strings, and nobody
could douht that this Ylas the tail of a rat. This, I
thought, was very much like human conduct. Ma-
ny seem perfectly satisfied if they can only blind
their own eyes, so as to fancy that they are some-
thing different from their real selves, and yet the
effort to conceal only serves to fix attention on their
true character.
1.,..ext to him was a large sized, broad-winged
grass-hopper, trying to swim on his back. He had
no difficulty in floating, for, like all the others, he
lay up entirely on the surface of the water ; but
then the difficulty was to make any progress. He
had no propellers, sav~ the raw-boned, elbow-look-
ing joints which rise above his bac·k in his natural
position, and which; when used right, answer very
well to hop with, but as for swimming, and on his
back, it was e:1tirely impossible. It was acting out
of character, and he made no progress.
At this stage my attention was drawn again to
the spider, whose web was in such commotion as
to shake him violently. I soon saw the difficulty.
A small green snake, about five inches long had
...rawleJ up over the corner of the box, apparently
to join the company insicle. Coming in contact
with the web, he had got entangled; and in his
struggle to escape, had wound it fast round his mid-
dle, and hung struggling, suspended over the water.
The spider seemed greatly delighted, and dancing
backward and forward on his web, as if here was
a prize of some value. He was cautious about ap-
proaching too near, while the snake struggled vio-
lently, but after he became quiet and seemed rather
lifeless, he ruµ along down the line to despatch and
make sure of his prey. But in this he was mistak-
en. He had not counted the cost. For almost as
soon as the spider reached his body, where the web
was wound round him, the snake opened his mouth,
and darting up his head, seized the spidor by the
middle, and almost closed his mouth upon him,
holding him like a vice. There that poor spider
lay a prisoner, with some of his legs sticking out on
one side of the snake's mouth, and some of them
with his head, feelers, and forceps, on the other:
stuggling in great agony and terror. He made all
manner of gestures to me with his head, and feet;
and feelers, to release him from the grasp of the
snake. I thought he was a queer fellow, to get
caught thus virtually in his own trap, and then ap-
ply to me to release him with so much servility in
his manner, and this, too, after his varied attempts
to fasten his vile web on my nose. But then I reas-
oned thus; "Yon do imitate human conduct won-
~ derfully for a spider." I felt some disposition to help
him, determining to show fair play and release
the snake too, but I could not reach them. I could
not easily move in the bed. Bnt I knew them to be
spectres, and that there was no need of sympathy.
Before I could return to the box to examine farther
the gambols there, something caused me to open my
eyes, and they all disappeared at once. I believe
this was caused by the coming of the Dr. about.
43
nine o'clock to bl ·(~d me. The group gave me so
much amusement that I would have welcomed their
return, but I saw them no more. I examined mi-
nutely only those I have described, and these were
but a few among several scores. I could only see
that there were little fish, bees, wasps, hornets, and
almost all manner of insects and reptiles, bnt all
acting out of character. This group visited me at
about the severest stage of my disease. I could not
at this tima lie down, and could only retain my
breath by being bolstered in an almost erect position.
Your affectionate
HUSBAND.
LE'I1TER VIII.
PREBLE ST. HousE, FEB. 3, 1845.
Mv DEAR S.-Three letters a day you will think
rapid writing for a convalescent. But my thoughts
set towards home with such a strong tide that I may
as well give them scope, and let them run on before
me, even if they are various, and if they bear
nothing to you but spectres. I ha e been making
calls since closing the above, and feel inclined to
write a little at twilight, especially as I have just
read your letter by to-days' mail. As it is drawing
near the time of evening when spectral visitors were
wont to come to my room; perhaps I can array them
more nearly in their true dress than I could in the
light of day.
FOURTH VISITOR.
Friday night visitor was a solitary one, and not
very amiable; but I was able to manage him so
44
completely, that I am sure it will not give you the
night-ma_
re to read a description of him. This fel-
low choosing darkness rather than light, and seem-
i ig conscious of evil designs, did not come in tiil
after my watcher had been in ~some time. Prob-
ably it was_ near midnight, when who should
come in but a staunch, savage lo::>king negro, with a
heavy club or bludgeon, about two feet long. With
a threatening aspect he came uninvited and Eeated
himself on the back side of my bed, about midway
of the rail. There, after raising his club, and
showing his ivory in formidable style, he demand-
ed my money. At first I viewed him with a little
earnestness, and questioned with myself, "Are you
a real negro, or only an apparition? You talk
and act like a very vile fellow, but I believe you
are nothing but a spectre." Then I opened my
eyes, and as usual the spectre vanished. But the
moment my eyes were closed, there he was, at his
old tricks, with violence and threatening sufficiently
formidable to make up for previous defeat. As a
farther precaution, I looked out the other side of my
bed for the watcher. I could distinctly see the out-
lines of Bro. D's honest face, quietly reposing in
the arm chair, and another was on the sofa. I knew
that all was safe, so I closed my eyes again to see
what my visitor would do, and to give him a fair
chance. Ther-e he was again, brandishing that
club, and using very bad language, but I did not
fear him. I could even lie there and laugb at him.
I:-Ie seemed more and more excited, till, in one of
his most violent motions with the club, his arm 9-rop-
ped off at the shoulder, and club and arm all disap-
45
peared together bi;!hind the bed. But nothing daun~
ted he clenched the other fist, and swung that, and
scolded and threatened if possible, more wildly than
before. Soon the other arm came off at the elbow,
but this did not check him; for although disabled,
he still demanded my money as resolutely as before.
While talking in a most violent rage, his under jaw
all fell oft~ so that there were no more words. Still
he sat there in violent agitation, and piece after
piece of his face and forehead fell off, till at last no
part of a skull or brain remained, except a small
piece of angular bone on the backside of the head;
and then the unsightly spectre all disappeared at
once.
l lnve n::> dc
mbt th:.it this visitor would have giv-
en me great trouble if I had not studied the subject
of apparitions so thoroughly before my sickness;
but as it was, it gave me no uneasiness or fright, but
rather amusement.
FIFTH VISITORS.
lVIy Saturday night visitors were rather a shabby
set; and hardly worth describing except as they
mark one stage in the progress of spectral visits.
In this case the personages were numerous, and all
in human form, but they were dwarfs, not more
than 13 or 14 inches high, and all of them buffoons,
but it was impossible to determine whether they
were male or female, by any particulars of dress or
111.anner. rrhe first group appeared to consist of
some sixteen or eighteen, and they hopped upon the
bed just forward of my face, or midway between
ffif face and the foot-board. Here they commenced
J6
a sort of general dance, each one by him or herself,
and each making all manner of wry faces and
grimaces that could be conceived. They were very
closely grouped, yet each seemed to have scope
enough to play the fool, with every part of his lili-
putian frame and mernbers. rrheir design seemed
to be to make me laugh, but they were ineffably
silly and contemptible; and after they h1,td become
rather tardy, up came another group) and danced
between them and me; but there was very little to
choose between them, The group in the rear now
took every measure to get sight of me, and attract
attention by looking ove,t the sho-i1lders of the inter-
lopers) and s9on there-was an irregular sort of skir-
mish to break through and again secure the prece-
dence. While this game was going on, a third
group came in, and then a fourth, of similar ap-
pearance. A general scramble, and even riot now
took place between these different groups, so that
their attention was diverted from me, and I was
glad t9 Jose sjght of them; for spectres as I knew
them to be, I thought they were very silly ones.
Pretending to be human beings, and debasing them-
. selves thus,'I could not but feel for them a great
- deal of contempt. They interested me less than
any of the other visitors. l\Iy next will unfold to
you scenes of a very different character1
and will,
perhaps close the period of disordered mental action,
in any thing like a permanent form. If the reading
of these hasty descriptions shall beguile a weary
hour) while the time of om separation lingers; I
shall not have written in Yain. I attempt no philo-
47
sopical explanation of them at present. Indeed 1
do not knowthat any other can be given than that
the excitemeut of a fever may produce strange
phantasies, which cannot be explained with entire
satisfaction.
Your affectionate
HusBAND.
LETrrER IX.
PREBLE ST. HousE FEB 4, 1845.
MY DEAR S.-I approach the subject of this let-
ter with a degree of reverence which almost forbids
me to proceed. There is something so sweet and
sacred in the recollection; and the whole impression
of the scene referred to, that I almost foar to distgrb
it by any written or verbal description. Yet as it
must evidently rank among the varieties of disor-
dered mental action, I feel that to omit it would be
to leave my description of phenomena under this
department entireiy incomplete. I stated in a pre-
vious letter that the violence of my disease had been
checked in some degree before the Sabbath. At
least the intensity of my bodily suffering had, in
, some measure, been relieved, and I felt on this day,
very weak and dependent. It was peculiarly com-
forting to have Bro. D. come in at noon and pra.A
with me, although it was very difficult for me to
follow hi1n, as I did not take his hand. It was also
a matter of joy that my case had been mentioned
in the churches, and the prayers of christians en-
listed in my behalf. Several lay brethren, and
brethren of the order called to see me near ever;:ing~
48
tne of whom led in prayer; and, as I seized his
hand firmly, I could follow him very well, ann with
satisfaction. Not long after, Bro. C. came in, and
his conversation and manner were very soothing.
He told me ~hat he had been preaching from that
afternoon, and gave me a little idea of his sermon.
It was on the text, i John 3: 2. "It dot!t, not yet
appear what we shall be, but we know that when he
shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see
him as he is." My mind instantly recovered and
seized upon some precious thoughts I have had at
variou,.s times in preaching extempore on that same
passage, as I had several times preached thus upon
it in different parts of the country. I believe I gave
utterance to two or three strong expressions in con-
versation with him, but then I did not speak near
as long or as earnestly -as I had on various passages
r2ad me by the watchers on previous nights. He
led in prayer while I held his hand firmly, and
seemed to rep_eat the words of his prayfff in concert
with him. After the visitors left, Bro. M. volun-
teered to stay with me ti!l the watchers came, and
·releases., who had been very much exhausted with
care and anxiety. ·when all was still, and the dark-
ness of evening curtained us, about the usual time of
my spectral visitors, a very pleasant looking man
appeared to invite me to ride with him. He was a
stranger, but I seemed to know him at once, and
believed him to be an earnest and deeply experi-
enced christian, and also a brother of the order. I
felt great confidence in his guidance, but everything
looked singular for a ride. There was a very beau-
19
tiful) easy caniage, just large enough for two of us
to sit in, without any covering, and we were to ride
with no extra clothi1i.g and with our heads uncover-
ed. This seemed a strange adventure for a sick
man, and the ground covered with sno.w; but with-
out hesitation I took my seat) and he followed and
sat at my left hand. rrhere was another difficulty.
The car was mounted on a slight rail or track, eleva-
ted considerably above the surface of the earth, but
there was no steam engine, and I was quite sure
the track was not strong enough to bear one, and I
saw no hope of motion, unless a strong wind shonlcl
rise to propel us. But, by the time we were fairly
seated, the car began to move with inconceivable
rapidity. I perceived we were moved by electrici-
ty; and was very glad to think that this discovery
of moving machinery by electricity was at length
made, and applied to practical purposes. But I per-
ceived that our car was not moved by any artificial
application of lightning. vYe had no galvanic battery
to look after, no machinery to superintend, but were
moved by the lightning as it exists in the atmos-
phere. There was no rumbling of wheels-no
tremulousness of motion. We moved silently and
steadily as the moon in her orbit. But I discovered
that my mind had .acquired new power) and moved
even more i:apidly than our car, far out-stripping
the speed of lightning. For rapid as was our flight,
I could perfectly note and understand every object
we passed, and I reflected upon all with the utmost
clearness, and, at the same time composed and de-
livered discourses on all things in the whole range
3 t ~
,_
50
of vision, so as to keep fully up with our joumey.
The cold snows of winter had been e~ehanged for
the most beautiful summer scenery that the sun
ever warmed into life, and joyously smiled upon.
Our journey commenced in the later half of the
afternoon; and some of the first scenery which at~
tracted my attention seemed to be a combination of
parts of views which I had seen. Some of the most
beautiful features of numerous Islands in Casco bay,
were grouped together, with points and parts of the
main land, to form one of the· ~t splendid land-
scapes that-imagination ever pa:mted. Trees, :fields
wavy CTops, water views, dwellings, villages, cities,
with the speed of lightning, we were continually
passing, and my mind as·rapidly gi·~sping and. ma-
turely considering every object, composing essays
upon them and delivering them to my companion;
not in words, for these would answer no purpose;:
but they seemed to fly off' from my heart tohis, with
the same facility that they rose in my mind. Grad-
ually the sun went down in a fleecy c-loucI of g!ory,.
too bright for the natural eye, out which my own
eye was strengthened to gaze upon, as upon every
thing else within the :range of vision. My vi.isi©fl
was enlarged, fully equal to the operations of my
mind._ Mercury was distinctly visible; and ab©ui
the size of our half-moon. Venus wa~I' apparently
two or three feet in diameter, and Jupiter presented
a disc apparently about seven feet in diameter..
Saturn, too, appeared in similar proportions, with
its rings in the most favorable attitude to display
the peculiar glory of that planet; and what deepl)1
51
in~erest~d me was, that I could distinctly see living
bemgs m human form, moving upon the three plan-
ets last named. My enlarged vision enabled me to
see into the starry heavens, far beyond what any
telescope has penetrated, and I felt assured that with
proper instruments and opportunity, I could secure
an angle, and measure the size and distance of any
of the fixed stars of the first magnitude. My dis-
courses embraced a survey of the starry heavens,
with various philos_ophical discussions, and compar-
isons of hypotheses, all of which seemed to be
absolutely complete; and I felt, sure my researches
would aid greatly in the progress of modem astron-
omy, and correct many errors and false notions
which now retard its progress. Thus we travelled
far south of the equator, and then easterly, so as to
make a circuit which brought about one half of the
surface of the globe within the range of sight, and
a similar portion of the starry heavens; all of which
was subjected to the close examination that a mind
fully enraptured, and moved by lightning, would
naturally give to it. The earth was at peace. As
the evening advanced, the voice of prayer and
praise seemed to ascend from every dwelling.-
There was no distressing poverty-- no grasping av-
arice. Plenty and prosperity everywhere abounded,
and the temples of God which were everywhere
seen, gave eviderice that his worship and his bless-
ing went hand in hand through the wide circuit of
our journey. Every view of the earth, every hu-
man dwelling, every waving field seemed full of
God's presence and glory. The name of Christ
5:2
was everywhere a perfect talisman, and it vvas easy
to see, that with all the bright beams of God's glory
which shone in every part of creation, still the
theme of redemption touched a richer chord, and
unsealed deeper fountains of feeling than any other.
The clear views of the starry ,heavens were intense-
ly grand and sacred on this account. The whole
celestial hemisphere seem radiant with the presence
and glory of God; and the heaven of heavens seem-
ed pervaded with the majesty of the Son of God,
and the influence of his heavenly mission. It seem-
ed very plain that his incarnation and atonement,
and the redemption he wrought out here upon the
earth, sent forth a mighty influence, which was felt
in the most distant planet, and the sun that shines
upon it; and that the transformation which had
taken place on the earth was viewed with wnnder
and adoring love through all Jhe hosts of heaven.
·when my mind was wrought up to the highest
point of wonder and adoration, in view of such
glorious manifestations, and my soul was full of in-
expressible delight; then, as with the voice of an
angel, the passage rung through my ears, and thrill-
ed through my soul again and again, '!ft dotli not
yet appear what we shall be). wlwn He shall appear
?ce shall be like Fiim / we shall sec hini as he is."
My discourses continued embracing every subject,
and unfolding the fullest emotions of my-soul. They
were thrown off, one after another, and such power
of language, beauty of expression, and eloquence
of style, no mortal tongue ever uttered. You need
never ask me to give you a specimen of the style of
53
those discourses. I can neither write nor utter a
single sentence in such words as we employ to con-
vey our thoughts. Nothing but words of fire en-
chanted and conveyed by electricity could do it jus-
tice. In other words, the mind must be in a disor-
dered state, ' to imitate or originate such composi-
tions. As I closed the last discourse, which dwelt
particularly on the influence of human redemption
on other ordeTS of intelligences, and upon the moral
government of God, and the happiness of the uni-
verse, our car gradually checked its velocity, and at
length stood still at our starting place. I saw that
117 discourses, if they could be understood and
printed, would make an octavo volume, of some
five or six hundred pages, but that it could never be
published in the language of sounds. I was soon
conscious of lying in my bed, quiet and refreshed.
So far from feeling any weakness or weariness from
the excessive mental effort of the last half hour, (for
it was not above thirty or thirty-five minutes that
the vision lasted,) I was perfectly refreshed. I had
not felt so much bodily or mentttl comfort since first
attacked. I felt that a change had come, ·that I was
better, and should soon recover. I was directly more
fully in possession of myself than I had been, and
saw with the utmost clearness that I had been labor-
ing under a state of disordered mental action, al-
most constantly from the first of my sickness. This
evening, as you already know, was the turning
point in my sickness. From that very hour I have
been recovering with a rapidity which seems almost
as wonderful as my excursion.
54
I hope soon to see you, when I can speak of what
I have now written, with less embarrassment than
I can write. If I am not mistaken, I have succeed-
ed in writing a more accurate description than I had
supposed would be possible. I cannot review it
now - no two or three previous letters have so
tasked my strength of body and mind as this.
Your affectionate
HUSBAND.
LF;TTER X.
PREBLE ST. HousE, FEB., 5, 1845.
MY DEAR S.-1 commence this letter almost with
the feeling that it is my last date from the Preble
St. House, a place, however, made very dear tome,
both by suffering and enjoyment. Were there not
another place called "home," with attractions too
strong to admit of a moment's comparison, I could
very cheerfully remain here weeks longer, and re-
view the scenes of the last four weeks, and write
their lessons more deeply on my heart. But there
are strong chords fast~ned on my heart, drawing
me to the domestic fireside, where wife and chil-
dren await our return, and to the beloved church
and congregation that have attended on my minis-
try, and shown their love to the gospel by so many
acts of kindness to us. I never felt so anxious to
be again in my pulpit, as I now do. Friends here,
are afraid I shall go into it next Sabbath, and that
this would be hazardous. I feel perfectly at rest in
the matter, that the Providence of God will direct
aright, and that we can safely trust his decision.
My task is almGst done, ro far as my spectral visit-
ants, or the journal of my sickness is concerned.
The rest is rather the history of my recovery, which
need not 'be i:ninutely reeord:ed. One or two circum-
stances, hov.1ever, deserve attenti<m, as they throw
light upon the condition and necessities of the sick.
One was, the extrem.e weakness after the crisis of
the fever. Up to that period, the fev-erish excite-
ment kept up a semblance of strength, so that causes
and occurrences became painfully annoying, afte1· the
crisis, which did not disturb me at allbefore. The
light, which till Friday night had been freely ad-
mitted, with nothing but thin white curtains to pro-
tect.me, after thecrisis, I eould not endure at all; and
it became necessary, for two or three days, to make
the room so- dark, that persons com.ing in, could not
see so as to recognise each @ther, or fin.d the way t •
my bed without a ·guide. But when by experimentI
could endure a little light, the joy it :gave me was
intense; and when, in a dloudy day, I eouid have
the curtain removed so as to look .out a few mo-
ments upon the snow and the buildings, which cer-
tainly, from our wind-ows,:areootthemost beautiful,
it seemed to me I had never seen anything which
could awaken dee.per em0tions of be.w.ty .and gran-
deur. And, till my strength. .of vision was restored,
so as to see as usual, whenever I looked out, my
mind would be canstantly revolving that passage,
" Truly, the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is
for the eyes to behold the sun." Soof hearing; our
56
room, situated near the door of entrance, exposed
us to a considerable noise from those who put up
at this house. There were times before the crisis,
when noises were very annoying, but still more so
afterwards; especially anything out of the usual
course. One evening two young fello>.vs came in,
who seemed determined to prove themselves rowdies
of the lower sort. Outraging the general quiet and
order of the house, they must talk nonsense and
·ing some lo\v, silly songs; and then, they must
dance after the most approved fashion of cowhide
boots, when the chief end is noise and bodily exer..
cise. This was almost insufferable, and especially
as their sleeping room was directly over mine, and
they seern_cd to fee1, that they must consecrate that
with their devotions to the god of nonsense. But
when I made known this grievance to the master of
the house, it was soon abated, and finally rnmoved.
Visitors, of _
whom we had large numbers, did not
seem to weary or injure me at all, till after the crisis
of my disease. I could talk earnestly, and on vari-
ous subjects, and felt as much delight and enthusi-
asm on favorite subjects, as ever in my best health.
But after the crisis, 1 it soon became manifest to
friends; that frequent Yisits ·were injuring me. Breth-
ren of the order at once set themselves to correc6ng
the evil, and on V'{ednesday they posted on my door
the following notice.
I. 0. 0. F.
LwoNIA LoDGE, No. 5. F. L. & T. Jan 22, 1845.
Brethren of the order, and others are respectfully
r~quc ~ted not to visit Bro. P., unless they axe inti-
57
mate friends, or call on special business; and when
they do, to converse as little as possible.
Per order, --- ---
Chairman Visiting Committee.
This seemed to me rather a hard case, for I de-
sired very much to converse with all I saw, and to
see many v1s1tors. I prevailed upon S. to write un-
der it in pencil mark the following :-Clergymen
may be admitted at all times, unless Miss S. thinks
it is not proper. I can now see tpat this measure
for excluding visitors, was a measure of vast im-
portance to my recovery. I doubt whether it would
have been possible to have saved me from serious
injury of brain or lungs, if visitors had not been re-
strained. Another feature of extreme weakness,
was developed in my sleep. I had slept but little for
some nights before the cnsis, and the same difficul-
ty remained for a time afterwards. But there was this
difference. Before the crisis, free perspiration was
uniformly a source of relief, and evidently contributed
much to diminish the febrile action. But after the
crisis, for several nights, I could sleep only from ten
to :fifteen minutes at a time, before I would be thor-
oughly drenched in perspiration, and then a sudden
change would come, seeming like the condensing of
steam; and then the saturated garments, and the
drops that stood upon me, would seem like ice; and
nothing but a sudden increase of covering, and
brisk friction could prevent very severe chills. And
if I slept beyond fifteen minutes, my mind, on \vak-
ing, would be totally bewildered. So late as Friday
'evening, after I began to recover, and when I had
come to incline to sleep, and fall asleep '-'~-
the evening while waiting for the watchers, S. sat
by the bed, very much exhausted with a week's in-
cessant care, leaned her head upon the bed. I soon
fell asleep, and the first I knew "\Vas a sensation of
coldnessi extending from my chest, nearly to my
feet. I thought I had been laid into a pool or pud-
dle of water, and I could distinctly trace the pro-
cess of freezing in. There I seemed frozen in solid,
with only my feet and head a11d shoulders out, und
they \Vere exposed to a cold winter atmosphere, and
then there was no one to help me. I thought S.
had gone off and left me, and I,could not make any
noise, nor could I get to the bell cord to ring; that 1
was about resigning myself to my fate, when I felt
a soft hand on my face, but still I was sadly bewil-
dered, and came near tearing my clothes from me
as means of getting out of the ice. It Was sometime
before I knew where I wasi or who I was, and prob-
ably seemed more like a grieved helpless child, than
during any other period of my sickness. I resorted
to friction with btush and flannel; as soon as I had
sense enough, and when I found that S. was there,
and pileing on clothes, and doing all that could be
- done, I believe I cried for joy. I could not have
slept more than thirty or forty minutes, but the ef·
feet _
was great. I did not fully recover from it till
towards night the next day. Although in all other
respects I was gaining, my mind and nervous sys~
tem still trembled under the shock. These night
sweats were very unpl~:isant, and, but for the most
careful attention of my watchers to wake me at the
Lt moment, it seemed to me I could hardly have
stirvived them. I should have been chilled: or tak-
en cold so as to renew my disease. Two or three
times I had slight seasons of mental aberration from
this cause. It seemed a great point gained when I
could sleep an hour, and not awake in the cold chill.·
of these night sweats. And now that for four or
five nights I can sleep most of the time without in-
jury, and awake refreshed, the time past seems al-
most like a dream. But surely; whether dream or
reality, the arms of our heavenly Father encircled
me, and his angel watched over me.
Your affectionate
HUSBAND.
LETTER XI.
PREBLE ST. HousE; FEB. 5. 1845.
MY DEAR S.-My pen still runs on, so that I must
give it scope enough fo write one more letter before
leaving this_ consecrated chamber. In ·your l::tst,
speaking of my rapid recovery and prospect of re-
tnrn, you say, "It seems like a dream to thinlr of it.
'Seeing is believing.' My faith does not extend
much farther than that. * * I am always sure that
if Christ should speak to me audibly, his first words
would be, " 0 thou of little faitlt." I am always
repenting, but never believing. I have been puz-
zling my brains in vain to conjecture what necessity
there could be for your having this fever in Portland.
-\Yhat good it could do at all for you to be sick away
GO
from all who love yot1. Doubtless you have form..
ed some new friendships, but such a sickness is a
most exorbitant price to pay for new friends, when
you have more old ones than you can treat with
common civility. Danbtless it is for a wise pnr...
pose. If it was that you might be an example of
faith and patience, very much benefit must result to
many persons, to meet my ideas of loss and p1:ofit.
If Satan desirrd to have you, that he might sift you
as wheat, I hope you will, to his great disappoint~
ment, come out of the sieve; not chaff, but "Pearl of
great price." Whatever the lesson may be, I trust
and believe, and hope and pray that you may prove
an apt scholar, that one lesson may suffice, and that
yon will ~10t, like me, be compelled to repeat, and
rep~at every few months. till you all but sink under
the task; while the why is still a mystery, and you
remain as ignorant as ever." I write on~ this pas-
sage, because I see it in your very heart, flowing
out in all its fulness. I am reminded also of those
kind words of the Great Teacher. "The spirit is
willing, but the flesh is weak." Faith reels and
staggers sometimes through infirmity of the flesh,
For when we, through weakness, dare believe only
as far as we can see, and then through disease can
see only a little way, and that but faintly or un-
steadily, then it is hard for us to understand the
"why." But there is one thing which I always no~
tice, and that is, when a crisis comes, and you have
no other resort, you always have faith enough to
meet it, just as well as if you could see the why.
You recollect too, that it has been a favorite maxim
61
with me, when the why is not visible. "What I do
thou knowest not now, but thou shalt know hereaf-
ter." John 13 : 7. Now I think this is broad enough
to cover all the clamorous whys that come up toques-
tion and perplex faith in the sorest extremities that
arise. But as it regards my sickness, and the rea-
sons and circumstances of it, I believe there are
many things that we may know already. Aside
from all the queries you mention, each of which
may have its meaning, I may mention several
things.
1. It has taught me a great lesson in relation to
the value of health. You know that however much
I have enjoyed life and health; I have not so valued
health as to be always careful of it. Your frequent
cautions to me on this head, and your own suffer-
ings before my eyes, have still left me a dull scholar.
I have learned a great lesson on this subject, if it
will but last.
2. It has taught me a better estimate of my own
constitution. I have almost felt as if this was in-
vincible, and could not easily be shaken. Now I
have learned that a 'slight cause may break it down
and leave me weak and helpless as a child; and
what a mercy is this lesson! learned too, as I hope, .
without the ruin of my constitution, for surely it
has rallied "'l.vith energy, and my rapid recovery is
evidence, that with care it may serve me yet for a
time.
3. I have learned lessons in regard to sickness of
gr-eat value to a minister, or to any one who has to
dc>al with t k. 'The murativel have given you
62
will show this in some degree. I have learned how
u11safe a guide may be the wishes and plans of a sick
person in certain stages of disease. I have learned
' hvw easy it is for the mind to be unsettled and dis-
ordered so that its action is all unnatural. I have
learned how important are prompt and careful at-
tentions, and skilful nursing and watching, and
confidence in all these, and in a physician. Confi-
dence which leaves the mind at rest-frees it from
anxiety, and inspires it with hope. It seems to me
that neglect, oi seri0tts deficien~y in any one of
these particulars, during the first two weeks of my
sickness, would have been fatal to me. ·what a
source of joy it was to me every <lay, with slight
exceptions, to feel that everything was done just
right.
4. I have learned that it is a blessed thing to have
a firm hope in Christ to rest on in sickness. It is an
anchor to the soul. ·what could I have done with-
out this anchor? My poor brain was like a ship
tossing on the billows; but the name of Christ was
at all times a strong hold. Prayer, and the word of
God were among my most efficacious medicines.
They seemed to be operating on my mind with as
direct effect on my health as were the medicines
upon my physical system.
So it was with sweet, gentle music. It was like
the breath of heaven causing the very fibres of my
soul to vibrate so soothingly, that it was like a re-
freshing cordial. It was not musical sounds alone,
for the effect depended very much upon the senti-
ment. Those tunes ·were most effectual; which were
ded with Christ and the spirit of pure
.devotion.
5. I have learned that the doctrines of the gospel
as I have embraced and preached them, are as pre..
cious in sickness as in health. I have before refer~
red to this, and here repeat, that the great features
of the evangelical system of faith, the way of sal-·
vation, the character of Christ as a Savior, and the
methods of his grace as I have received and preach...
ed them to my fellow...creatures, seemed to me in-
describably precious in the times of greatest weak~
ness and suffering. I felt as if they were all matters
of personal experience with me, and they seemed to
lie upon the very face, and be engraven on the heart,
and constitute the essence of those parts of the Bi...
ble read to me by the watchers. These embraced
a large portion of the shorter epistles, besides parts
of the Romans, Hebrews and Corinthians, and con·
siderable portio11s of the gospels by John and Luke.
I recollect repeatedly entering at once upon the ex·
position of passages read by the watchers, so full of
light they seemed on the christian system.
6. Another lesson learned, is, that sickness is a most
unfavorable time to prepare for death. I do not see
how it would have beei1 possible for me at any stage
of my sickness, till nearly removed, to have taken up
the matter of personal salvation as an inquirer, with
any hope of coming to a right and safe decision.
The review of my hopes and my condition men-
tionecl in a former letter, was as much as I could
possibly summon my mind to at the time, although
drawn by a powerful impulse, which seemed almost
64
like instinct. And I do not see how I could have
done that, if surrounded by watchers, or at any la-
ter period for the first fifteen or sixteen days. 0
I have felt as if, should I be able to preach again,
I should preach more earnestly the great truths of
the gospel,and urge upon my hearers more solemnly
the necessity of embracing them, and making sure
of Christ while in health and vigor.
7. I have learned lessons of great interest in rela-
tion to the power of the mind in its disordered states.
I esteem it one of the special favors of God that in
nearly all of my wildest m_
ental reveries, and in the
highest stages of disordered mental excitement, I
was so nearly able to trace, recognize andremember
what passed. It is to me an extremely interesting
view that it is possible to be visited with apparitions
and spectral visitants, with so little annoyance, and
that by previous acquaintance with them, and with
Mental Philosophy generally, their power to annoy
a sick person, can be almost wholly destroyed. I
have no doubt that the suffering o.ccasioned by them
in fevers, and in cases of severe excitement, and then
of prostration of the nervous system, is very great;
and it would be a great point gained, if children
and youth should learn the actual character of these
visitors, and the disordered states of the mind which
lead to them, that, whenever they should occur,
they would 'be no more distressed by them tban by
their shadows, or the echo of their voice.
But I speak of the power of the mind in its dis-
ordered state. I have no doubt that my mind was
frequently in a state to take up and discuss a sub-
65
Ject with more clearness and strength, and beauty
of language, than I could ever command in health,
and this at times when I could not possibly walk
across the floor. I am satisfied that some views of
geology, and philosophy, and expositions of scrip-
ture1 and criticisms on the sentiment and style of
articles read to me by watchers, and upon the char-
acter of the authors1were more vivid and striking
than I could write when in perfect health, while
perhaps at the times these were given off, I was so
feeble in body, that it was very difficult to ut-
ter words; and even what little strength there was,
resulted rather from the excitement which the mind
in its disordered state produced upon the bodily or-
gans. In the last reverie which I described1 beside
being filled with the vivid coneeptions of such myr-
iads of natural objects1 and with the most intense
delight while viewing objects with the speed of light-
ning, I am very sure that my mind1 in that half
hour, actually composed1and in the most glowing
and finished style of composition, such as I was
never yet capable of producing in health, matter
enough, could it he put on paper) to fill a closely
printed octavo volume of some six hundred pages;
and this, too) without the least weariness or exhaus-
tion; but on the contrary producing the most sooth-
ing and salutary effects upon mind and body both.
What doctrines or hypotheses this fact might seem
to confirm in reference to the power of the mind1
when unencumbered with this frail body, or invest-
ed with a spirituaJ body, I ·will not attempt to say.
66
You ~ill readily call to mind certain speculations
of Coleridge, and views advanced by Prof. Upham,
where Coleridge's views are recorded.
I can readily believe the truth of Dr. Beecher's
description of the rapid action of memory and con-
science, he says "The retrospections of the mind are
as rapid as the flashings of lightning. More rapid
are they than the transmission of ideas by the tele-
graph between Washington and Baltimore, or than
that transmission will be when, as such may hap-
pen, thoughts are carried in a few moments round
the earth.
"I knew a man -who said that, in falling twenty
feet, when he expected to die, the thoughts of a life-
time crowded through his mind. He thought of
his business, of his- wife, of his children, and of
that eternity to which he was going. A life seemed
to pass through his mind, and nothing was lost. So
it will be when memory summons the acts of life at
the last tribunal. Nothing is lost. Thoughts once
impressed, but apparently lost, will come out again.
A life is written on our memory, as with invisible
ink. It is apparently lost to our frail sight while
here. But in the judgment light, it will be seen en-
, veloped around us, and will be unrolled till every line
and letter is made visible. I knew a sailor once, who
said that when once in a storm on the giddy mast,
while trying to furl a sail, and could not, he cursed
God. It passed out of his mind for twenty years,
but now, in .a season of excitement, he said, now I
remember it, I am lost."
67
There is nothing improbable in such statements,
after the experience of excited mental action I have
realized in this sickness.
Another topic I intended.to speak of in this)etter,
but its length forbids this, and I reserve it for anoth-
er, or for familiar fireside talk.
Your affectionate
HusBAND.
LETTER XI.
MY DEAR S. -- My last letter enumerated several
important lessons learned in this sickness away from
home, and closed with the intimation that another
might be added. It is this - 7'he practical test and
illustration of Odd Fellowship. This illustration
has been the more full and impressive from the
circumstance that I was away from home. Had it
been in the midst of my own beloved people, and
had the members of our own Lodge done all that
has been done by the brethren here, it might be
supposed that it was done from feelings of attach-
ment growing out of the pastoral relation and the
workings of Odd Fellowship had not been so dis-
tinctly manifest. You already know the general
fact that I was at once adopted and cared for as a
brother and every provision made for my comfort
by day and by night, which human skill and sym-
pathy could devise. The chairman of the visiting
committee of Ligon.ia Lodge was the first to know
68
of my case. The committee consists of seven, each
of which has his day in the week to look after any
case of sickness among brethren, and secure watch-
ers and whatever may be needed, and all co-operate
and communicate with each other through the
chairman. . The case of a sick brother is promptly
reported in the Lodge to which he belongs and my
case was reported to all the Lodges in the city, as
well as to the H. Lodge. Watchers were drawn
from the different Lodges, and great care manifested
to select skilful watchers. As there are some eight
hundred men in the prime of life in the three Lodges
it was not difficult to secure a good selection. For
thirteen nights two brethren were promptly at myside
each evening at a suitable hour-men of intelligence
-and one or both oftµem having previous experience
in care of the sick. When so far recovered as to
need less attention, but one was needed, and young
men with less experience could then take their first
lessons. About 30 different members of the order
were called to my bedside as watchers, and the in-
terview enjoyed with them in this brief acquaint-
ance will not soon be forgotten. Daily my table
was furnished with ··whatever could be useful or ad-
minister to my recovery or comfort. The kind
sympathies which were daily overflowing were fit-
ted to soothe and rejoice my heart. When it was
seen that company must be restrained, the prompt-
ness and delicacy with which this was done was a
delightful feature of the arrangements. It is diffi-
cult to see how any arrangements could be more
GV
skilfully made or better adapted to promote a speedy
recovery.
1. One interesting feature of the order is that it
becomes thus a school of sympathy and kindiiess.
Is a brother sick ? His case is reported and the
state of his disease at each 'meeting, and the hun-
dreds of members are all thus led to sympathize in
his suffering. The feelings of humanity are thus
called into play, and the sickness of one awakens
~ympathy in the bosoms of scores or hundreds.
2. Another feature of the order, is, that if is a
school for training the members to take care of the
sick. Each member is liable to be called to watch
with the sick, in the fulfilment of a voluntary
pledge or obligation. He feels assured that in ac-
quiring skill in watching with the sick, he is only
discharging a reasonable duty imposed by his obli-
gation, but one' which others at some day must per-
form for him in accordance with the same obli-
gation.
3. Another feature is that four times every year
each member is laying aside and consecrating a
small portion of h_is earnings to meet the necessi-
ties of the sick, to bury the dead, to cheer the wid-
ow and to educate the orphan. This habit of con-
secrating a small sum periodically to the cause of
humanity exerts a happy influence in resisting self-
ishness and promoting benevolence.
4. Then every case of sickness, suffering and
necessity which draws assistance from the treasury
of the lodge draws a voluntary offering from each
mr.mber's heart through the act of his vote. In all
70
these ways are the feelings of humanity and benev.
olence called into play, and the exercise of such
feelings is fitted to do good. It makes the individ·
ual better. It is idle to pretend that the practice of
these duties leads men to overlook and treat with
indifference, or in any way operate unfavorably up·
on those who are not members. The cultivation
and development of the benevolent feelings in a
limited circle prepares them to act in a broader one,
and the example of benevolence practically acted
out ·n a community, operates beyond the limits of
the circle in which benevolent acts are performed
The temperance pledge, whe~e members act consis-
tently, operates far beyond the limits of the society
embraced in the pledge. So with Odd Fellowship.
·with all the prejudices against secret societies in
general, and this in particular: at the outset, it is
manifest that the principles of benevolence and
charity have been materially increased in the com-
munity by the establishment of the Order in this
city.
5. Another feature of interest is, the cementing of
the bonds of society and promoting fraternal feel·
ings among those of different professions, parties
and denominations. Among my thirty watchers,
and scores of visiters, were members, I believe, of
every church and congregation of the 'city, unless
it be the Roman Catholics and the Millerites. There
were lawyers, publishers, brokers, merchants, bak-
ers, bread carriers, tavern keepers, tailors, barbers,
cabinet makers, blacksmiths and sailors, besides
clergymen of some seven or eight different congre-
71
gations. Th~n there were Democrats and ·whigs,
and men who are not unconditionally pledged to
either of these parties. Men of all these callings,
professions and parties are associated in the fellow..
ship of this order, and it exerts apowerful influence
an their social relations and sympathies, in over..
coming the repellances of party and sect, and cul..
tivating a blander and broader humanity. Taking
our common humanity as it~ basia, and honor, in-
tegrity and benevolenceas its eondit.icms of member-
ship, there is a platform on which honest men of
all parties can meet and exchange the friendly
greetings, the kind courte$-}es of benevolence and
charity, and find sympathy with truth-loving minds
to which they might otherwise be strangers. It
has been delightful to feel the warm gushings of
human kindness flowing from such variety of sour-
- ces, and in so many different channels.
6. It has been interesting to see that a very gen~
eral impression favorable to spiritual religion is
made upon the members. With all the diversity
of religious sentiment and profession it was easy to
approach each member on the claims of personal
:religion; and all were ready to admit that the ob-
ligations, the emblems, and ceremonials of the or-
der imperiously urged upon them duties, such as re-
ligion enjoins, and such as they could not fully meet
without divine assistance. Every one was ready
to admit most freely that he ought to be a better
man for the instructions and privileges of the frater-
nity, and that the motives to .a religious life were
increased by their connexion with the order. The
effect of these instructions and obligations in curing
habits of profanity and others of a kindred char-
ucter, in those given to such practices before seek-
ing admission, is an interesting feature. If one
were unwittingly admitted with such habits1 be has
seen and felt the inconsistency of them with the
plainest principles he has professed, and felt con-
strained to relinquish them. Several interesting ca-
ses of entire reform in these respects have come to
my knowledge. And if a member fall into a~1y
such habits, the principles of the order enable and
constrain the brethren who understand his case to
counsel and reclaim him, if kind and faithful reproof
can do it. The association becomes thus a sort of
mutual insurance office, in relation to morals as well
as in relation to care and pecuniary aid__in sickness.
The order is thus in its natural tendency, directly
favorable to morals and vital piety, and gives a
m{nister of the gospel favorable access, and the fa-
cilities for doing good to numbers who otherwise
might not be accessible.
I am satisfied that a faithtu'i minister in this city
may increase his influence, and do immense good
directly, and indirectly, by a connexion with the
order, and an intelligent-participation in its exercises.
Probably a residence in the city for months, in
health, would not have given me so- deCisive and
impressive a conviction of this truth, as the scenes
of this sickness have occasioned. '"I'here is, in the
mysteries of the order, a key to the heart and· con-
sciences of men, as well as to the pecuniary benefits,
73
secured by its constitution and laws-. I could illusw
trate this by examples, if it were necessary.
7. I have found by experience that the workings
of the system are very favorable to recovery in sick-
ness, and in my case at least, a real help. At first I
felt as if I must come home. That I could not be
reconciled to beingsick elsewhere, and that if I were
to die, it must be in the bosom of my family, and
among my own people. I knew not how to meet
the expenses of sickness here. I was however ob
Eged to learn the lesson of submission, and wher
this point was gained, how perfectly was every ne-
-cessity met, every want anticipated! I had no care
or anxiety in relation to watchers, or their skill and
-capacity. There was no room for anxiety or dis-
quietude. It might be said perhaps, that all would
have been done which was necessary without Odd
Fellowship; and I have reason to believe that chris-
.tian friends would have exhibited commendable
sympathy; but it is impossible that the same per-
fect system and arrangement could have been made
without a similar organization. It is the perfect
system and order secured by Odd Fellowship that is
the charm of its action in sickness, where properly
understood, as it seems to be here. Had it not been
for the entire freedom from solicitude secured by
these arrangements, my sufferings must have been
increased, if my recovery had not been defeated.-
Then had it not been for the benefits conferred in
sickness, I would have been unable to pay expen-
ses incurred. The sum guaranteed by the laws of
the order were promptly paid over to me by the Li-
4
74
gonia Lodge, and with what I had in possession, a~
my physician declines any fees for services, enables
me to pay all bills and our passage home. For
such a result I feel truly grateful as I know you
will.
8. I have found, too, when apparently on the
borders of the grave, that it is a privilege, if I must
leave wife and children in poverty, to leave them
encircled with the sympathies of Odd Fellowship.
I know that if I were called away while connected
with our beloved church, that their sympathies
would surround you; but I know too, something of
· the hardships and privations of the families of min-
isters left penniless in the bosom of kind people, and
1 could feel assured that in this Order there was an
additional safeguard, so far as human sympathy
can rnlieve the pressure of widowhood and orphan·
age. I am more and more impressed with the idea
.that this institution is to be one of the great instru-
mentalities to soothe the horrors that death throws
in upon the family circle, and to develope that
-broader humanity which is yet to bless the earth.
It is to do this not by superseding the blessed influ-
ences of the gospel and the appropriate mission of
the visible church, or by the discovery of any new
· principle not embraced in the gospel, but by the
peculiar method of employing established principles
and revealed truth, and bringing multitudes to con·
template, acknowledge and act upon the principles
of Friendship, Love and Truth, before they are
prepared for membership in the visible church. I
etm persuaded that if intelligent hristians shall em-
75
brace the facilities afforded by the order, to impress
its great principles and lessons upon those who, in
form, embrace them, a powerful antidote to scepti-
cism will thus be applied and a healthful religious
influence diffused, in place of a careless indifference
or a narrow sectarianism. In this hope I eherish
the progress of the order with deep interest, as it
will tend to counteract that sectarian, exclusive spir-
it which is wont to sever christians of different de-
nominations. The principles of the order summon
the brethren.of all sects around the couch of a sick
brother, and around his open grave, and then
around his a:ffl.icted wife and children, without in-
quiring what was his religious creed, or what may
be theirs, and without inquiring after his political
relations or preferences. But it was not my design
to detail all the bearings of Odd Fellowship, or at-
tempt its eulogy, or defence; but to notice rather its
practical developments as exhibited in tllis sick-
ness; and with this I close the journal of my fever-
_
and leave the scenes of the sick room, with its
~pectral visitants, to join you and our loved ones in
the endearments of home.
Your affectionate
HusBAND.
