{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__raleigh___metaphysical_healing_v1.pdf","mytitle":"Metaphysical Healing V1","mylang":"de"}
METAPHYSICAL HEALING
These lessons are the practical experience of Metaphysics applied to dis-
ease in all its aspects to restore Health on all planes, Physical,
Astral, Mental, Soul and Spirit. They show how to
master disease and gain and retain what the
world is seeking, Equilibrium and Health
By
EIGH
Volume I
A Course of Private Lessons given
to his personal pupils
THE HERMETIC PUBLISH lNG COMPANY
3006 Lake Park Ave. Chicago, ill, U.S. A.
Copyright, 1932 by •
The HERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
Copyrighted and Registered at Stationers' Hall,
London, England
(All Rights Reserved)
CONTENTS
Page
LESSON ON
Health and Disease ....... ................... 7
LESSON ON
Astral Chemistry ............................ 12
LESSON ON
Functional Diseases ...... ................... 18
LESSO
N ON
Menta l Chemistry ............................ 23
LESSON ON
Mental Picturing • ••• • ••• • • • • • ••••••• • ••••••• 30
LESSON ON
Uric Acid Diseases .......................... 35
LESSON ON
Starch Poison .......................... 41
LESSON ON
Sugar Poison • • • • • • • • • •• •• •••• •• •••• •••••• • •• 47
LESSO
N ON
Cancer ...................................... 53
LESSON ON
O
verfeeding ••• • ••• • • • •••••••• ••••• •• ••• • •••• 60
LESSON ON
Suggestion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
LESSON ON
Magnetic Healing 75
LESSON ON
Sexual Healing ........................... 82
L E S S 0 N 0 N
H E A L T H A N D D I S E A S E
Disease is from dis-ease, that is, a lack of harmony, or discord.
Health is the reverse, namely Harmony. Harmony of what?- and discord
of what? Of vibration of the system. Remember that the gross physical
body is permeated by energies of a much more subtle form. These energies
are in a continuous state of vibration. Never for one moment are they
still, never do they become motionless, but it is ever a process of
continuous motion, ever moving in accordance with the diverse r ates of
vibration. As the rate of vibration is, so will be the character of
their influence. They a re vibrating on the different octaves; the
Mental Body, the Astral Body and the Etheric Double are each and all
of them in this continuous state of vibration.
Motion is going on perpetually. This motion is either in accord-
ance with harmony or else it i s discordant. If it be discordant it will
manifest itself in a disordered condition of the system ; be it chronic
or acute, it must at all times be a physical disturbance proportionate
to the discord which has taken place in the vibrating energy of the
system. This may be in the Astral Body, the Mental Body or the Etheric
Double.
In every case Health is the result of harmony of the vibrating
force; disease, the effect of discord. Not only is this true, but there
are specific diseases which are the effects of specific kinds of discord,
that is to say, specific degrees of discord in the manifesting vibrat-
ing force, but also a particular kind of discord, discordant in the
sense that there are certain notes of inharmony manifesting themselves
there. A certain type of discor d must necessarily express itself in
and through a given disease. The changing of this form of discord
into some other form will consequently eventuate in a change of one
type of disease into another. As the type of discord is, so will be
the type of disease.
By either thinking in discord or feeling in discord, or also by
7
living in such a way physically that the Etheric Double vibrates in a
discordant manner, we will establish this discordant state, which,
descending to the Gross Body, establishes discord in the cells and
thus will produce this state of inharmony, this state of disease, as
we term it . Fevers, chills, rheumatism, neuralgia, malaria, in fact,
everything, in a word every disease that fle sh is heir to is but an
expression of a definite form of discord.
It may occur to you to ask, "Well , isn't it a fact that the in-
fluence of our physical environment will produce disease? " Undoubtedly
it will , because the physica l environment will produce a state of dis-
cord. The vibration of the atmosphere may be inharmonious , there may
be putrifying substances about which will produce discordant vibrations
in the a ir, which will poison the food you eat , the water you drink ,
so that these, in turn, are discordant in their vibration . If this be
true you will naturally take on this discordant influence and your
principles will be made to move in the discordant manner that is prompted
by the discordant influence around you. In this way you take on that
condition, you develop that phase of discord and, in the course of time,
it descends until the physical body is made to respond and you contact
the disease . If you can maintain your harmony, however, in that en-
vironment in spite of the discord that is all around you, you will
discover that you can maintain perfect health notwithstanding the
diseases that are going on a bout you.
When you contact contagious diseases it is not due to the a ction
of germs; it is due to a discordant auric force which sets up a corre-
sponding discord in your own aura and this, des cending , throws your
system out of gear. The one who is able to preserve perfect harmony of
vibration in his own aura, may go into the worst pest hole on earth
with perfect impunity.
Poisons produce disease by reason of their ability to breed
discorda nt conditions, but if one is so permeated with the spirit of
harmony that nothing can disturb it, that no discordant element can
ruffle this sta te of harmony the least bit in the world, he will find
he can drink poison with impunity.
In the treatment of disease , it is, therefore, only necessary to
establish a state of harmony instea d of discord. If you can accom-
plish this result you will be able to cure any disease in the world.
It is because of this fact that New Thought , Christian Science, the
Science of Being - all those metaphysical cults, are so wonderfully suc-
cessful . Analyze them and you will discover that their methods are
oainly directed to the end of establishing a state of harmony, through-
out the system. They work against any discordant element , and work to
the end of harmonizing everything, and thus by producing this harmony of
vibration, you will find they are establishing the state of health.
Health is being continually suggested by this operation, by this
8
activity, by the method which is adopted , and t he result i s, health
and harmony are induced.
To bring out of this discord a state of harmony is, therefore,
the cure for all the diseases to which flesh is heir and nothing else
will cure them. This is the problem. The method which is adopted
must work unto the accomplishment of that end . Methods are of value
only as they lead unto the realization of this state of harmony. Any
method which will accomplish this result is effective . A method which
does not, should never be resorted to.
It should be borne in mind that if we know just what the rate of
discord is, we may bring about the state of harmony much more easily than
if we do not understand it. If we do not understand it we may try to
bring it into harmony with a certain r ate of vibration which is really
much more antagonistic to it than some other . We must know the general
character of the vibratory activities of the body and bring all the
discor dant states into harmony with them. We must also recognize the
antipathies which exist between the human organism, particularly the
organism of our patient, and certain influences, and thus avoid all
such antipathies, acting through the sympathies rather.
To accomplish this work requires the skill of a Master and no one
else should ever, at any time, attempt the healing of the body.
In the treatment of disease everythi ng which will harmonize
with the condition of the patient and bring about this state of har-
mony, must be resorted to. A careful study of the colors, of the
cha racter of perfumes , if the person wea rs them, all the arrangements
about the house- everything must be conducive to HARMONY and must also
harmonize with the condition of the pa tient. Nothing discordant should
be permitted, because it will simply aggravate the disease .
It should a lso be borne in mind tha t the people with whom we
associate exercise a great influence upon our being. They are likely
to either harmonize with us or become antagonist ic. Their auras may
be out of harmony with our own. If so, it will have the tendency to
establish a state of discord within our own being . Thus many people
are made sick because of the company they keep, because of their fam-
ilies . As a matter of fact , one should never try to live with disagree-
able people if he has any regard for his health. ?.~ore people a re made
sick because their fa:lilies, their friends are Dot agreeable , not con-
genial, than are ever ~ce sick because of oala=~a germs , or anything
of the kind. Do not har;e c :.sagreeable people a!'ound if you would main-
tain a state of hea lth , beca~e they will !lecessarily disturb your
emotional states and antago:1:.ze the e!ltire being. The r esult will
be a state of discord wh:.cc =~s~ express itself in a corresponding
disease . I n order to cure a pet. ~ e::-: l..U:lder such conditions it is
necessary that he should be re=o~ed from those conditions which have
given rise to that state of discord.
9
Also, it must be borne in mind that if a person within himsel f
live a life of antagonism, a life of bitterness , of hatred, - main-
tain a discordant condition within his own being, then he is sinning
against the Law of Harmony, the Law of Peace . The result is he is
establishing that state of discord which must express itself in cor-
responding diseases, and so sickness is really the punishment for sin;
it is the consequence which a life of discord brings , and sickness can
never be permanently cured except by the permanent removal of the
causes, namely, the state of Discord. Harmony must be produced within
the very being before he can be brought into a state of permanent health.
Also remember what we call disease, those eruptions, so to
speak, manifesting in the physical body, those types which are ordi-
naril y termed disease, are merely the symptoms of the real evil which
lies within. The real disease, remember, is a state of discord within
the Aura- that is the enemy with which we have to contend. This expresses
itself in a discordant state of the cellular structure of the body. The
diverse organs , the tissues, even become disturbed and this disturb-
ance arising, produces certain effects -usually because of the
accumulation of effete matter in the system; because there is some-
thing there which is not proper from a physical standpoint, they manifest
themselves in the ordina ry way. But be that as it may, remember that
the physical troubles which we try to cure are the effects of those
discordant states in the vibration of the Aura, that being the REAL
CAUSE, the physical disturbances that we call Disease being merely the
outward expression, the effect, the excrescence, so to speak, of this
inward state of discord, consequently the curing of the symptoms while
the discord remains, will, in every instance, be found to produce no
lasting benefit, but to simply "salve " the matter over. The elimina-
tion of the discord by the establishment of harmony, is the only per-
manent and rational cure of disease . It is in this sense that the dictum
of New Thought is true, namely, that a ll physical troubles are the
effects of mental troubles, and a diseased mind is the cause of a diseased
body, therefore, cure the mind and you will cure the body.
If we understand that a disturbed , discordant Aura is the cause
of all the influences detrimental to health, manifesting in the Gross
Body, consequently that all physical troubles are the effects of Auric
Disturbances , Auric Discord, we will then have the key to the situation.
So the only radical method of treating disease is by establishing Har-
mony within the Aura, harmony of vibr a tion throughout the finer prin-
ciples of man's constitution. When you have accomplished this, you have
accomplished a cure for all diseases.
Therefore, remember that Health is the inevitable result of an
harmonious state of vibration throughout the finer principles . A dis-
cordant state of that vibration, where there is any antagonism, where
one rate of vibration is contending with another, where there is in-
10
dependence in the vibration, half a dozen, or a dozen, each acting
independentl y of the others, where there is the least disharmony, the
least discordant influence, it must express itself in a disturbed state
of the body which we call disease.
Also each specific type of discord represents itself in a corre-
sponding disturbed condition. In other words, it is establishing a cor-
responding type of disease, a type corresponding to the type of discord
which gives expression to it. Also this discord may be brought back
into a state of harmony. Whenever it is, the disease disappears and
becomes a state of health.
Lastly, Disease can be cured only by replacing Discord by Harmony,
a nd when this is accomplished, it will be cured in every case, without
fail, as disease cannot exist in a body nourished by an Aura vibrating
in a state of Perfect Harmony. Any attempt to cure disease without
recognizing it as being the effect of discord within the finer prin-
ciples, any attempt, in a word , to cure by r egarding disease as being
a physical condition and not the effect of the higher conditions, must
result in mere patchwork, which will, perhaps, remove one symptom, but
allow the manifestation of discord through some other symptoms.
Health is HARMONY:- Disease is DISCORD. The problem of Thera-
peutics is the problem of replacing Discord by Harmony.
11
L E S S 0 N 0 N
A S T R A L C H E M I S T R Y
One of the most important factors to be dealt with in the science
of disease is the chemical influence of the emotional activities of
the being. Very few realize this fact.
It has been recognized for a long time, that joy, sorrow, etc.,
exercise a certain influence upon physical health ; we know for instance,
that when we can develop the right kind of emotional states, can stim-
ulate the proper feelings, we will, by reason of the fact, be able to
greatly improve the health of the patient, but it is not generally
known that the emotional states actually generate chemical substances ,
which have the capacity of healing or poisoning the body. Yet, this is
absolutely correct.
It should be borne in mind, th.lt there is a certain rhythm apper-
taining to all emotional activity, a rhythm different from that of
Mental activity, or Physical.
To make the matter a little clearer, we must understand that
from the Kosmic Energy, Mind, Astral Light and Ether are alike gen-
erated; in other words, each of these substances is constituted by
reason of the formation of a unit or ultimate atom, which is itself, a
structure formed by the combination of a vast multitude of the atoms of
the Kosmic Energy, or Buddhi. This combination causes the Unit or Ulti-
mate Atom to move with a certain rhythm, or, in other words, on a certain
octave . Now, all Atoms and Molecules moving on this octave, that is to
say, the Astral or Desire Octave, become, by reason of that fact, Astral
Fluid, or Desire Stuff, we might ca ll it. This Desire Stuff is, there-
f ore, moving on this octave and this is the material of which emotions
are formed, that is to say, emotion is the a ctivity of this principle;
cut it should be borne in mind, also, that all emotional activity when
::c=!.!lg from thought, or whatever it may be , has the effect of moving
o !l t !:is r!lytbm and thus expressing itself through this substance, this
..:..str a l Fluid . The Astral Fluid is, t herefore, drawn from the Astral
12
Plane, and also generated within the human aura by reason of the ex-
pression of Emotion, feeling at any time and under all circumstances.
Not only is this true, but there are two general classes of emo-
tions, those which we term positive and others which are termed nega-
tive. Now we are not to understand by these expressions a lways exactly
the same thing . In the more chemical sense or the physical sense we find
that those positive emotions are the ones which move outward from the
center; that is to say, the ones which have the effect of causing a wave
of emotion to pass out through the Desire Body, moving outward from the
center to the surface and thus acting upon the world without ; the nega-
tive emotions are those, the tendency of which is to cause the wave to
pass inward , so a vortex is thus formed and it is drawn through this
fluid to the center, as it were, being an indrawing, a sucking motion,
which draws inward from the world without.
These are the two emotions which may be briefly described as being
Will and Desire. Whatever is operative from Desire will, therefore,
make the person subject to outward influences , or become subjective,
while all those emotions are positive, act from the center on the world
without and thus become objective. The two may be described as being
active and receptive in their character.
Each emotion, however , has a r ate of vibration peculiar to itself,
different from what every other has; that is to say, whenever an emotion
is awakened within a being it causes the Astral Fluid to move in ac-
cordance with that oarticular r ate of vibration pertaining to that
specific emotion. The result is the rate of vibration in the Astral
Body is continually changing; never is the same . It is always fluctu-
ating in accordance with the diverse eootions which ar e active within
the Desire Body. As are the emotions so will be the vibra tions of the
Desire Body at a given moment . Now, each of these rates of vibration not
only expresses itself in this way and as the expression of a certain
emotion, but it also expresses itself in form, color and sound , so that
by l ooking at the Astral Body of a person you can tell, if you know how
to interpret the colors, the emotions, which are moving within his
being. Not only this, but you may also, if you are clairaudient, hear
the sound which emanates from him, and thus ascertain the nature of
those emotions ; and not only can you do this, but you will see certain
geometrical figures, which are continually for=dng in the Desire Body
fluctuating back and forth, presenting a kaleicoscopic view before you.
These geometrical figures, which are for:nec by the atoms of the Astral
Fluid as they gather, continually changing according to the emotion,
which is moving this force, form the crystals we will say, though of
course, in the Astral form, of chemicals , which are just as definitely
chemical as anything we meet v;ith in the pharmacopoeia. The chemical is
here generated through the emotion, and each specific rate of vibration,
representative of each specific emotion, expresses itself in a chemical
13
quently in a case of this kind Magnetism should be applied in order to
bring it out.
Generally speaking the upper part of the head, from the eyes up-
ward, indicate the intellect, from the mouth upward the emotions, and
downward the physical powers, though this is not always the case, and
by stimulation of those parts o.f the body we may stimulate the organs
which they represent and consequently the parts of the body which are
under their control.
There is a statement in the Bi ble that Joy doeth good like a
medicine , and sorrow drieth up the bones and in this sense it is true
and the Organ of Hope and also the Organ of Mirthfulness will be found
exercising a very great healing influence when stimulated, by reason of
the vitalizing essences which they pour forth.
If you wish to treat a certain local trouble in this way and do
not know its phrene organ, it will ordinarily be found sufficient to
press the hands closely on the head; go over the head completely with
considerable percussion with the ringers. The moment you feel a sensa-
tion in the organ which you want to treat - remember you should go over
your own head and when you feel in that organ the sensation, or in fact,
any sensation , know that you have found the ·mental pole, the cranial
pole of that organ located the same place on the head of your patient;
apply magnetism there and you will succeed in reaching the organ and thus
strengthening it .
In the treatment of functional diseases it will be found that this
Phreno-Therapeutic method is more than ten times as efficacious as the
application of magnetism direct to the bodily organ could be, because
you are now touching the center, as it were, the spring which directs the
current and which is supplying the power to that organ. You are at the
same time developing it so that it will of its own volition as it were,
produce much more power than it did previously.
This is, in brief, the system. It may be applied in almost any way.
It is simply the application of the magnetic or psychical force to the
phrene organs, governing the different functional centers of the body and
as you apply this force, quickening and stimulating an organ, and there-
fore, sending forth a current of energy, charging, vitalizing, magnetiz-
ing the organ which is weak, you will thus build it up, strengthen it,
compel it to perform its function . It is the natural method of stimulating
the diverse organs of the body, and will be found to be effective in every
instance no matter what the trouble may be.
14
It is now known that joy, hope, cheer , optimism, happiness , cheerful-
ness - all these diverse emotional states, laughter, mirth , wit, etc . ,
have a beneficial effect on the body, as well as courage, determina-
tion, resolution, - everything of a positive character. On the other
hand, sorrow, misery, despair, agony, hatred, jealousy and everything of
t hat kind have a detrimental effect and are, consequently, termed Nega-
tive in their character. But why is this? Because these emotions generate
certain chemicals , it has been said of old, "Joy doeth good like a med-
icine, but sorrow drieth up the bones . " As a matter of fact, Sorrow in its
activity gener ates a substance which cannot be detected from ca rbonate of
lime and therefore , increases the lime in the bo::tes, the mineral matter,
which makes them dry, hard, and brittle, which procuces the condition
of old age, as it settles in the system. Joy, co::tsequently, has the
counter acting effect, it increases the animal ~atter and thus neutral-
izes t he accumulation of lime , and perpetuates a state of youth.
Those emotions which are Saturnine in their character, that is
to say, such as deal with Black Art, Magic, Sorcery, Occultism, etc.,
emotions accompanying those things and the use o~ those powers to do
evil - the emotions which would accompany such an attitude of mind ,
gener ate lead, and are capable of lead poisoning .
The use of the Will, or the activity of the Will, generates iron,
and is the sovereign remedy for improvished blood , ~here iron is
lacking.
Sexual love generates copper, and it will be found to be there
in great abundance, owing to this influence .
The activity of a continuallY changing emotional state, fluc-
tuating from one state to another , continually changing, going up and
down as the mind changes ; the emotion, which is expressive of this
changefulness will generate mercury.
A violent, quick temper, not given to hate, but rather that which
flies froo one extreme to another , will produce quicksilver.
Hatred, fiendish antagonism , or anything , in fact, which we ex-
press under the term of hate , where there is wish for evil to come to a
person, where hate is expressed, will generate sulphur, and the system
is liable to beco~e poisoned under the influence o~ s~lph~ .
These cheoicals are very often found in the bocy, when it is
definitely known that no such chemical has bee::t ~ake::t into the system
physica lly. In fact, the body is composed of c!!e::=icals . It is well-
known, that it is nothing but a chemical laboratory, but it is not so
well-known, that the Astral Body is likeTi se , a laboratory of Astral
Chemicals and those checicals in the p~ysical body, are simply the
Astral Chemicals, desce::tding, and =anifest ~ng on the physical plane .
If you succeed in removi::tg those ~st ral Chemicals, that is to say,
changing them, changing the e=otions so that those astral chemicals
will cease to be produced , you can in time, change the chemica ls of the
15
physical body, for the physical body is nothing in the world, but the
production of the condition of the astral body on the physical plane.
Remember, however, that it takes a little time for the astral chemicals
to descend and manifest in the physical, consequently, simply changing
the emotions will not cure a state of poisoning, which has already
taken place in the body. By changing the emotions you simply cease to
generate any more of those emotions and consequently the poisons no
longer are formed, but a ll that are there in the astral body still remain
unless you can bring a powerful influence to disorganize them, which
is possible, but very difficult, - those remaining will descend to the
Etheric Body, and ultimately to the Gross Physical Body, there gen-
erating those chemicals; consequently the treatment must go on until
those astral, etheric and physical chemicals have been eliminated. But
no treatment will be successful, which does not take notice of the fact,
that a ll those poisons are the results of astral poisoning, growing out of
emotional states because, if the old emotions continue to go on, if the
person continues to be swayed by them, he will continue to generate
those poisons without any cessation and consequently, he will have to
continue to neutralize those poisons, and continue to have them cured
and removed, because just as long as the poisoning goes on, just so
long will there be a job for the doctor, and it will continue just as
long as those emotions are continued. Consequently, there is no such
thing as perfect health, until man has learned to feel properly, has
learned to nave the right kind of emotions; and this is the reason why
the influence of certain religions, Christian Science, New Thought and
others are very often so beneficial. It is because , they change the emo-
tional state, and changing that emotional state , everything is found
to be in a state of harmony, a state of health and peace .
Do not, therefore, for one moment, conceive that health is pos-
sible, excepting through an harmonious state of vibration - harmony with
one ' s self, with God and the Universe. Dissatisfaction and everything
inharmonious; discordant states of vibration, which do not make peo-
ple good, indeed, can only express themselves in a state of physical
discord, or physical poisoning, must be dealt with the same as any other
kind of poisoning .
Improper emotional states, must, therefore, continue to poison
the body just as long as they are endured or tolerated. When we have
learned to bring about the proper emotional states the positive states,
generally expressed under the term optimism, in place of the negative,
detrimental, inharmonious, malevolent states, expressed under the term
pessimism, generally those which are pessimistic toward others as well
a s toward ourselves - whenever we have done this and not before, will we
displace the state of poisoning, resulting in ill health, with that
state of harmony resulting in perfect health. Disease being the out-
growth of emotional poisoning, can be cured only by those particular
16
states of emotion which develop those chemicals, which are the na tura l
antidotes for those poisons .
Now, as every chemical, that ever is found in a poisoned body may
be generated there through certain emotional states, it follows, that
the fiction of the physician, that you have to have drugs to cure cer-
tain conditions is absolutely untrue . It is never necessary to adminis-
ter drugs to the body in the physical form, because the emotions are
quite capable of generating every chemica l in the world, and will do
so if the proper emotions are active.
The cure, therefore, for all those troubles is the CONTROL of
the EMOTIONS; keeping them under proper guidance, so tha t we will feel
the way we want to, we will have the emotions, which we realize we ought
to have, and therefore, will generate the proper chemicals. If the
physician can control the emotions of his patient, he can cure every
disease from which the physical body may ever suffer.
17
L E S S 0 N 0 N
F U N C T I 0 N A L D I S E A S E S
When physicians get hold of a patient and cannot tell what is the
matter with him, they say he lacks tone; the system must be toned up,
yet there is not one of them who knows or pretends to know what he means
by this expression, toning up his system and the lack of tone . This
lack of tone, really represents a condition which is at the foundation
of all diseases of this type which are so difficult to handle . Just what
is meant by "Tone" is the question. As a matter of fact "tone" is the
condition presented when all the functions of the body are being per-
formed in the proper manner; the lack of "tone" is when a functional
disturbance takes place.
Functional diseases are not to be confused with conditions where
the body is astrally poisoned or anything of that kind. They have a
specific place in pathology. We speak of heart disease, for instance,
but as a matter of fact, we do not mean that the heart is diseased. Were
anything to get wrong with the heart organically the patient would not
last very long. What we mean by heart disease is a weakened or dis-
turbed condition of the cardiac nerve center, which causes the heart to
get out of gear in the sense that the proper quantity of nervous stimuli
is not communicated to the heart. The result is, the heart is not able
to perform its functions; thus we say it is diseased; that is, it is
out of harmony, so with all the other diseases that are to be included
under the functional head.
We should conceive of an organ or muscle as being a machine, a
.::Jotor , in f act, or rather, a machine run by a motor. The nerve center
controlling this organ or muscle is the motor that runs the machine.
:-;ow, the analogy is perfect between the nerve center and the motor in
ordinary machines ; if the motor receives a proper quantity of electric-
ity .:..twill run the machine in the proper manner. If it does not receive
a sufficient quantity, the force will be weak, and consequently, the
machine will run at a very low pressure. The more electricity the motor
18
receives, the higher will be the pressure at which the machine will be
run. If the current becomes too strong, the press ure will become too
high and the machine will be over run, or r ather, will run to pieces.
If the current is not steady, but is disturbed, of course, the
action of the motor will be disturbed.
The grea t problem, therefore, is to preserve t he equilibrium in
the electrica l current running to the motor; so that the machine will be
run properly. Wires connect the motor with the dynaoo where the elec-
trica l current is generated, consequently, if anything gets wrong with
the wires the motor will not get the proper current, or if the dynamo is
not being run properly.
Now, in applying those principles to health, the motor, or nerve
center if it receive the proper quantity of Prana , ·.rill a ct in the proper
manner. By reason of this stim:ulation, it will ca rry on the organ,
causing it to perform its proper function. If the curre3t becomes too
weak, then the activity of the nerve center will be correspondingly
weakened. If the current becomes too strong the pressure will be too
high ; there will be an over activity of the orga n ; or i!' t.be c~rent s
be interrupted, broken, then we will see a spasmodic acti·;it.Y of the
organ as in the case of palpitation of the heart foll owed b:t a cepression.
The nerves a re the live wires which convey the Prana to t.he nerve
center and if the proper quantity of Prana - and not too ::uc::: - be
communicated along these nerves to the nerve center, it r.ill act normal-
ly; if too much, then abnormally.
The dynamo which directs all the Prana going to the fucc~.:.onal
nervous system is so far as the physical is concerned, the Sola::- ?lexus
and Sympathetic Nervous System being closely identified with t!:!e f:mc-
tional state of health.
But the point you should bear in mind is this : If the curre:!t of
nervous stimuli flowing over the sympathetic nervous system anC. reach-
ing the nerve centers governing those organs , be normal, if the equilib-
rium be maintained, perfect health in those functions will 'be ~he result ;
each nerve center will receive a sufficient quantity of ?::-a:!a to
enable it to compel the organ to perform its proper fu_~c~ions . But if
the current be weak or too strong or spasmodic a correspo=C.ing result
will take pla c e .
Functional diseases then, are simply cases o!' : o"' y.:_talit y ; too
much stimulation or a weak circulation of the ·.-:.:.a!. !'orce. They are
not to be treated in any other way except.i11g .:..::!. a:!C. t:::rough the regula-
tion of the circula tion of the nerve force . I!' you ca:l control this, you
can cure any functional disease in the To!": c , no c:atter what it may be.
The question, then, for the physician to solve is HOW to control
the Circulation of this Vi tal Force . ':here is no other cure for func-
tional diseases, and this will cure in every instance . If physicians
would only realize that functiona l diseases a re due to a low state or an
19
:.=;:-::;:er __:-:..:a::.c:l of the vital principle and not cue to a lack of any
::::=:.=~-= :.:: :::e s~· st em or to the presence of any chemicals. if . in a
::-::. . - .::::· rc::::: treat functional diseases biologically r ather tha~
a 1rould have no trouble in the treatment of those diseases .
~~· :::e ~uestion is, why is the circulation of the vital force
:.:-:-a.g"_:a.
...? ~;"nat is the cause of this disturbance in the equilibrium?
.:::·.:.:as :.t not always circulate regularly, equilibrimatically? Why is
::: :!lc: !.~is discordant condition takes place at a ll? This matter is
::..::.::: c! ear when you realize that the Prana which is the life principle
c::- ~orce which circulates through the nerves, is opera tive in and
-.:-::-ougb the Astral Body; that is to say, the currents of Prana run through
\.::e As tra l Body. As these pranic currents are passing through the desire
stuff it follows they must be influenced l argely by the circulation of
the desire principle . As the movement of the Desire Body i s, so will be
the movement of the Prana , that is to say, the Desire Body is its can-
st i tuent principle , moves along a certain line, takes a certa in channel ,
and the result is, it carries with it quite a quantity of Prana , con-
s equently, the circulation of the Prana is governed by the circulation
of the Desire Body. As the Desire Body circulates in accordance with
the emotions, every movement in the Astral being the effect of a corres-
ponding emotional state, it follows that the direction of the circula-
tion in the Prana depends upon the emotional activities .
Those emotional activities, being dependent upon the particular
nature of the emotion , upon each specific emotion, it is, therefore ,
seen that the entire circulation of the Life Force is absolutely the
effect of the emotions of the individual. A man suffering from a func -
tiona l disease is suffering from it because of the discordant char acter
of his emotions; because they are not under his control, but are moving
in an improper manner. If the circulation be spasmodic it indicates that
his emotions are spasmodic, they are flighty, there is nothing steady,
nothing continuous in the emotional state . If the current be too strong
and if it be too strong all over the body - generally speaking , if there
be an over- stimulated condition, it is because the person is excitable ,
passionate, and his emotions are always at a fever heat. At any time
wben this condition is present, it indicates a fever heat of eootions .
If, on the contrary, the system is weakened and there is a very l ow
state of vitality, it will generally indicate Ipsea l emotions; every-
!.~i~g is self-relative; he is thinking of self a ll the time, and that
C::::-aYs the Prana inward, the result being that there is none l e!'t to
s~:=.llate the a ctivities of the bodily organs.
But usually these functional troubles manifest in the form of a
:a::~ o!' balance in the vitalization of the diverse parts of the body;
: !:a:. :.s to say, one organ is well stimulated; another is starving. It is
::o:. :eca:4se there is not a sufficient quantity of vita lity, but the bal-
a=ce , t~e equilibrium , is not preserved. It is not more vitality that
20
is required but rather a proper distribution of the vital force .
Now, when you realize that every class of emotions is related to
different organs of the body, just as the different parts of the body
are related to the mind, the different parts of the brain and different
kinds of thought - there are certain parts of the body, however, that
are specifica lly related to corresponding emotiona l states - conse-
quently those emotions will stimulate, corresponding nerve centers; at
the same time they will draw the nerve force away from other nerve
centers. Just as sure as those emotions are persisted in, they will thus
starve the system of the blood which it requires . The student should, for
this reason endeavor to ascertain, in a given case what the emotional
states are which are at fault. He can discover this by a little examina-
tion. See the disturbed condition, find out just what it is; what nerve
centers are weak and what are over stimulated and then notice the dif-
ferent emotional states and see, as nearly as possible , what the physical
effect is of the different emotional states of the patient . In time he
will be enabled to diagnose the case emotionally, that is to find out
the emotion that is at fault . Then try to restrain this emotion, to
stimulate one that will have a counter acting effect ; that is one that
will st imulate the weakened nerve center and restrain the over-
stimulated one . When the equilibrium in the emotional activity is
established it will always result in a corresponding equilibrium of
the vital circulation. Given this equilibrium, we will have the cure
of all functional diseases, and they cannot be permanently cured
otherwise.
It is for this r eason that those healing cults which appeal to the
emotions, with the object of establishing a state of emotional equilib-
rium - to always maintain the state of poise, balance, self-centered-
ness - where there can be no disturbance, have the effect which they
have. They would be of no practical value were it not for this influence
which they exercise upon the Desire Body, and consequently upon the
circulation of the nerve force or Prana.
Any method which will restore the equilibrium in the circulation
of the nerve force will cure any fW'lctional disease in the world. You may
benefit the condition by applying nervous stimuli direct to the nerve
center controlling the organ. Magnetic Healing and the other meta-
physical healing methods have , therefore , been found of very much val ue
in the treatment of fW'lctional diseases, because they give the nerve
force which that nerve center is starving. Giving this nerve force, they
establish the equilibrium, they strengthen the organ or rather the
nerve center, so that it makes the organ perform its proper functions .
Likewise, Suggestive Therapeutics is of great value because it
regul a t es the cir culation of the nerve force and this sends that force
to the nerve center, enabling it to compel the organ to perform its proper
function.
21
The only value of any treatment eoployed by the physician, then,
for functional diseases is in its ability to sticulate the vital force
in those centers . There may be various oethocs o= co:.ng this. There may
be different causes which lead up to this d:.s~~~~ce o= the nervous
circulation , as, for instance , pressure of t!:e ·;e::--:ebrae upon some of
the nerves. However , this does not effect the o:-ga= . ~eca~se it is not
the cerebro- spinal nerves so much that lead to -:2::::, :::: :.!:e s:-:::~pathetic
nerves; but the bones may press upon some of ::::e ::: :--;-:s . ::: :.!:at case
it requires the work of an osteopath, or a chirop:-ac:=:- ~: ::-e!!eve the
pressure, but it is simply the application of t.!:e sa::a ;:-:.n~:..;:e: or
in increasing the circulation in certain muscles, :::='!:a:::- :::e:-apy, ap-
plied in the form of manipulation, will increase ::::a c:..:-:::.:a:.:.o:::. of the
nerve force and consequently, will relieve the t.:-c::::: .
But bear in mind that in a l l those methods -:.::e ::::.::; ::::a: C~"RES
is the equilibrium in the circulation of the ne:-~e =o:-ce :.:: t!:e ::1erve
center. The method that is employed is simply a ::ea::s ::.~ =:-!::g:.::g about
this change in the circulatory proportion of :::e ~::a: ~Q:-ca . Real!zing
this, the treatment, therefore, should be a::l~~:::.::g -:~:. :..:: :eae up
to the accomplishment of this equilibrium ir! :::e c!:- c~a:.o:-:· ac:.:v:ty
of the Frana. That method which will most eas:::· :ec:C. ~t.c :::::s :-esult is
the best, under the circumstances.
There is no disease of a functional c harac~e:- :.o Th!c!: t:esh is
heir, that cannot be cured by this method and cu:-ec :.:~ co::parative
ease. There is no functional disease that can be c:.::ee ;:e:-:la::e!ltly in
any other way. Even those medicines such as arse:::.c a:::: cact:.r!a that are
given by physicians, are really given for the p:.::;ose c= accc::plishing
this result, by causing a certain stimulus to be !::parted to the nerve
centers in an a rtificial manner which will t!:us caw: to them t he nervous
force.
Remember, therefore , that in our method of healing we are em-
ploying the same fundamental principle that all intelligent physicians
employ. Our methods are, of course, a little more scientific, they are
more fundamental than theirs, but it is not a new departure, it is not
a new fad, it is simply the application of the old physiological method
of removing the cause and allowing Nature to take care of itself .
22
L E S S 0 N 0 N
ME N T A L C H E M I S T R Y
The Astral Vibrations are really nothing more than duplicates
of' the Astral Octave of' vibrations which have already taken place on the
Menta l Octave. The Astral Plane is but the reflection of' the Mental
Plane. Nothing ever takes place there until after it has taken place on
the Mental Plane. The result is such vibra tion as it operates through
the Manas. expresses itself on the next lower octave, or the Astral, thus
producing an emotion corresponding to it.
All our emotions are, consequently, but the duplication of our
thoughts. No thought is ever generated in the mind but what sooner or
later is duplicated in the heart. Of' course, the emotional duplicate
may be much more powerful in one case than it is in another, but our
emotions are the effects of our thinking.
Having rea lized the influence of the emotions on the health both
in r eference to the directing of the Life Force and thus the cure of
funct ional diseases or their cause in either case, and a lso to the gen-
eration of' chemical substances which poison- when we realize that all
this emotiona l a ctivity i s but the effect of the thought, we can readily
see the importance of thought control. The statement, "As a man thinketh
in his heart, so is he," is absolutely true; that is, as a man thinks in
his emotions, the emotion being the effect of thought . Now as man's
thought descends to the Mental Octave and generates corresponding emo-
tions, so the man becoces, that is, so his entire character is made up
and every thing of' the kind.
The point we ~ant you to notice is this : tne activities of' the
heart are emotional expressions , a r e 3ot self- generative, but are the
effects of thought vibrations , and each thought sets up a vibratory force
in the Mental Body, which V".!.ll, in ti!:le, descend to the Astral vehicle
and set up in the Astral substance a corresponding emotion. It is not
simply that thought generates emotion, but each specific thought gen-
erates a thing in harmony with itself', and also thoughts are divided into
23
positive and negative, corresponding to the positive and negative emo-
tional states. In fact our emotions of fear are the outgrowth in the
Desire Body of a belief in danger. were it not for a previous thought of
danger, there would be no emotion of fea r and it is always the outgrowth
of our opinion about things, about their nature, that is expressed in
fear, horror, anger, resentment, and all those emotional states. It is
likewise, the thought of one's self as being inferior or subordinate to
another, as being dependent upon another, upon outside influences, etc.
which manifests itself in fear of those objects and in emotions which
move inward from the surface. A thought which is self-expressive, which
makes the self the center and its positive outflowing in its attitude,
will necessarily produce positive emotions, which will ha ve the same
influence.
It is not necessary to go into details here. All tha t is necessary
is for the pupil to bear in mind that the emotions are the sha dows , the
reflections of corresponding thoughts on the Mental Octave, and must
always respond to the nature of that thought no matter what it may be.
Man's attitude of mind and reeling has a very great deal to do
with the state of his health. In fact, when we realize that the Astral
Body, controlled by the thinking, is in fact, the expresssion of
thought on the Astral Octave, and that it controls the circulation of
the Prana, and therefore, the conditions of functional diseases, vital-
ity, etc., and also generates all the chemical combinations which are
found in the body, we can readily see how terribly important the
character of our thinking is in reference to the treatment of disease.
It should also be borne in mind that our own thought determines
our positive and negative relation to the universal thought. All the
thoughts which others have thought are drawn to us when we become neg-
atively polarized with them. In fact, we are at all times more or less
influenced by the thoughts of others, it being utterly impossible for
one to entirely disconnect himself :rrom the thought of others individ-
ually and collectively. In fact, thought which has been generated in all
past ages is still there and is drawn to us to a greater or less extent.
The more we harmonize with this thought, being negatively polarized, the
more thought we draw to us.
Diseases which are the outgrowth of popular thinking are very
likely to be drawn to one who is under those influences.
I t should, likewise, be borne in mind, that there are forces in
nature which are vibratively harmonious with those thoughts and thus
by maintaining this attitude of mental vibratory harmony, we draw those
forces to us. The result is a disease which has been generated by
thought vibrations of a certain kind, expressing themselves through
emotional vibrations of the same rate, will also have that rate of vibra-
tion, for it must be borne in mind that disease is not simply a sub-
jective condition; it is really a form of energy which has been generated
24
in the physical body by reason of this discordant state of vibration. It
is a kind of spiritual virus, so to speak , which is present in the Desire
Body. Now, this poison, this Septic Ether, continues to move with the
same rate of vibration as the Diseased Mind and Astral Force move with.
It is in fact, the physical aspect, that is to say the Etheric aspect of
that same force, that same Astral vibration. Now, if one is thinking
thoughts which have the same vibration, he is polarized with the
disease. If he becomes negative, he will naturally draw it to him, be-
coming the negative pole, and thus contract it.
It is largely due to the fact that man ' s thought is diseased,
that he is drawing to him the disease influence of those around him.
There would be practically little danger in times of epidemics if people
were perfectly pure and spiritual in their thinking, if there were
nothing in their thinking which was in harmony with the epidemic, be-
cause in a majority of cases, epidemics are a diseased influence, that
is a discordant , inharmonious inflUence lihich has been generated
through the improper thinking and reeling of the public. It is terrible
to contemplate, nevertheless, it is true that epidemics of vice are just
as prevalent as epidemics of disease. These epidemics of vice come about
and go from mind to mind, and usuallY they are followed by epidemics of
disease . In fact, these epidemics of impure thought, followed by im-
pure emotions and lastly by impure action, must also be followed by im-
proper states of health and disease. When we realize this we can then
see what a terrible thing it is to follow habits of discordant thought.
Bear in mind that each phase of discordant thought, that is each
type of mental discord, manifests itself ultimately in a corresponding
type of physical discord or disease. If one at the same time be negative,
whether he has this particular type of thought or not, if he be negative,
he is likely to draw it to him, and this is why in time of epidemics
there is so much danger in fear, fear representing that attitude of
mind which makes the Mental Body of man negative; which causes it to
draw the currents inward from the surface, with the result that vor-
texes are formed which will allow the entrance of forces from the out-
side . Thus the person opens the door for the entrance of a ll those
influences. There is a story of a man, in the Orient, meeting the Spirit
of Cholera and he asks him who he is . He says, "I am the Death. I came
from Damascus; fifty thousand died there; I killed five thousand and
Fear killed the rest ." And this is really true. The fear of people has
the tendency to draw the force of disease to them when it would not come
otherwise ; that is, it opens the way, makes them respond to the in-
fluence.
Now, it is because of this fact, that the cities are so unhealthy.
It is not because of improper sanitation, because of the dirt and those
things, although they are bad enough, - it is not from physical causes
that cities are so much more unhealthful than the country. It is because
25
t!::e general mind, the public mind is there so much more powerful in its
suggest:ve influence, than it is in the country. In the country dis-
~:::-:cts, can is able to preserve his integrity of thought much better
t!:a.:1 be is in the crowded cities, because the mind of the crowd not
be:ng anything like as powerful there as it is in the cities. It is prac-
t:cally impossible for a man in the densely populated city to preserve
a::ything resembling integrity of thought . He must submit to the mind of
t!::e crowd , and therefore, he is influenced, - he is dragged down to that
level . Also in uninhabited localities it is found much better, and much
core conducive to health and everything of the kind because more con-
dueive to individuality of thought to live in those out of the way places,
than even in the country where there are very many neighbors, because
in this way you escape the mental environment and are able to establish
one of your own.
Further, it should be borne in mind that as thought vibrat ions
move, each moving in accordance with its own particular rate of vibra-
tion, the lower rates of vibration stay close to the earth. There is an
attraction between them and the earth. It is only the thoughts which
have a correspondingly high rate of vibration that are able to rise to a
high elevation and as they rise to this high elevation, they are thus
liberated from all contact with those below and cannot easily be drawn
down to the grade generally vibrating very low in their thinking. The
result is that those higher vibrations, that is, those high in the sense
of being more elevated physically, are more removed from the psychology
of the crowd, consequently less liable to generate diseases .
It will be found that they will also have less power to determine
the direction of one ' s thinking, thus enabling him to attain a great
deal higher degree of individuality of thought than he could otherwise .
It is for this reason that high elevations, the tops of mountains , have
been from time immemorial, the favorite resort of recluses and thinkers ,
philosophers and mystics who have sought to get away from the spirit of
the crowd, because they are there able to think clearly, to think as they
want to think instead of being dominated by the lower influences. As
we thus rise upward, we get above the thoughts of the crowd, and are ,
therefore , not dominated by them and do not, as a result, draw to us
those influences, of a physical and astr a l character, which correspond
to the thoughts of the crowd.
It will, therefore, be seen that it will be much better for sani-
~a=iums and hospitals to be placed on the tops of mountains, than to be
placed in the crowded cit.ies or down low. By placing them t here, the
pat:ents will be brought out of the lower thought atmosphere and thus
.:.:: be able to get free from those disease influences. It is true, on
~!:e o~!:e:r- hand, that if one wants to be of great service he may live in
t!:.e crowd, in the cities, on the lower elevations and thus, by think-
ing ~he i!i.ghest that he can, help to purify and elevate the thought
26
atmosphere of the world and in this way make it easier for others to
maintain a higher elevation of thought than otherwise they could.
Thought vibration is really the principle that governs Emotional
Vibration, therefore, all diseased conditions that manifest in the
human body are directly or indirectly the effect of emotional states
engendered by thought vibrations which are , in turn, the effects of men-
t a l at titude . There is no greater error than the idea that disease can
be cured permanently without changing a man's opinions. The idea that a
change of religious belief, philosophical belief, etc. will bring about
a change in man's physica l condition is absolutely correct . The fact
wh ich has been so often noticed by modern students , that the acquiring
of a belief in New Thought, Spiritua lism , any of those cults which has
brought about a r adica l change in the mental view point has been a ccom-
panied by an improvement in health, is absolutely true . The general
belief establishes a certain mean Thought Vibration, it establishes a
certain type of t hinking, which i s all of that general vibratory type .
The result is, a typica l vibrat ion i s established, which, in turn, man-
ifests itself in a typical Astral condition eventuating in typical
physical vibratory states , which produce chemicals of t hat particular
type . The result is, man' s physica l condition is, in the l ast analysis,
the effect of his beliefs, of his creed, so to speak. Where a man rea lly
believes a creed, and is sincere in it, that creed establishes his sta te
of health. A man who is pessimistic must necessarily become a hypochon-
driac, in every instance , it cannot fail. The man who has a belief that
a ll the people in the world are sinners and a re going to hell and every-
thing of that kind, who acts from a pessimistic view of humanity, is sure
to get bilious , and it affects him all the way through. We find it stated
that Robespierre became so bilious , as a result of his conducting the
French Revolution during the Reign of Terror , that his stomach would not
digest anything but or anges ; he had to live exclusively on a diet of
oranges, because they were the only thing t hat would counteract the bile
which was continually gener a ting in his system by r eason of his line of
thinking . Many people have been sick all their lives because of the dis-
ease conditions that were generat ed by their beliefs . It is utterly
useless for a person to argue to us that the old orthodox Calvinists
ever had good health ; they were bound to be bilious or hypochondriacal ,
one of the two. The feeling of jealousy must generate a jaundiced con-
dition, always . On the other hand when a person becomes optimistic, the
circulation of the blood is stimulated and it has the tendency to cure
most of his disease . Optimism is a splendid antidote for nearly all dis-
eases . It is not that pessimism is wrong morally so much as that it
gener a t es a certain type of vibrations which express themselves in cor-
r esponding physical conditions that poison the system. When one, there-
fore, who has taken an unhappy point of view, changes his philosophy,
his r e l igion, he begins a new form of thought vibration which stimulates
27
cc~~e spo=cl3g emotions and generates new chemica ls, and those become
:::a:.:.::a: !:Y a.!l antidote for those chemicals tha t were generated in the
sys:.e:J of his former belief. Consequently be is a lmost sure to improve
~o:- a period of time, a t least, after his change of thought, though after
a while he may establish a new system of poisoning, when he will need
another change -in order to transform his vi br ation and thus change the
chemical combination of his being.
It is for this reason that the crystallization of thought is not
good for the health, whatever it may be for the philosophy ; it is not
good for the health, it is better that there should be a continual proc-
ess of change, a transformation of thought going on all the time . Nothing
is so disa strous as fossilizing of the mental senses. I nstead of this,
we should try to grow a nd expand , and tra nsform our thought. Our minds ,
in f a ct, should be in a state of flux, so that we are going through this
transfor mation all the time. In this way our vibration will continually
be changing; the chemical combinations will go through a state of trans-
formation; instead of the body being a pharmacy or a chemical estab-
lishment, it will become an Alchemica l Laboratory where there will be
continual transformations and that is rea lly the :foundation of health -
continuous change. This is possible only by a vital. living , transform-
ing mental a ttitude, which is continuously expressing itself in new
thoughts, and therefore, new emotions which l astly express themselves
in new vibratory conditions giving rise to new chemicals. and therefore,
building up a new body. As the body is thus continually renewed, is giv-
ing way to new conditions, going through new transformations, perfect
health is the r esult. Disease grows up as a result of stagnation which,
therefore, must be overcome by origina lity of thought , by a continuous
changing of the thought and thus the Desire. As the Thought Vibr ation is,
so will the Emotiona l Vibration be , and as is the Emotiona l Vibration, so
will be the chemical combinations which a re formed in the physical
body, and as these chemicals are, so will be the state of physical health.
Likewis e, as is the emotional vibrat ions , so will be the circula tion of
the Life Force, t herefore, so will be the state of functiona l health
throughout the system.
There can, therefore, be no perma nent healing of the body and no
permanent establishment of a correct emotional state excepting by a
change in the intellectua l view point, a change in the man 's thinking. It
is, therefore, necessary that we should entirely transform the point
of view, the philosophy and the religion of a man in order to heal his
body permanently.
Disease is the natural effect of sin ; not simply sin which is ex-
pressed in outward emotions, but sinful emotion and sinful thinking ;
that is, incorrect and erroneous thinking, and consequently man must
lea rn to think correctly, truly and in harmony with unity. When he has
lea rned integrity and unity of thought, when he has learned to think
28
in the Cosmos instead of a Cha os, and ha s learned to pra ctice t hat
higher principle of thinking in ha rmony with Divine Law , he will then
generate the correct emotions which will establish correct vibratory
states, resulting in correct chemical forms in his body. This habit of
correct thinking will express itself in a perfect physical condition.
When he quits sinning mentally, he will quit suffering the consequences
of this menta l sin. He will cease to draw to himself disease, and will
sow in his system health, because he will think healthfully, rationally
and justly.
We can never permanently heal the body except by healing the
mind, except by bringing the mind into a state of Cosmic Order in harmony
with Divine Law. When this is accomplished, we will have a ccomplished
the perfect health of the body. It does not require any medicine to cure
a man when he has ceased to sin in his thinking. Health will be the
natural c onsequence of proper normal and harmoni ous thought. "As a man
thinketh, so i s he ; " that is t o say, so he becomes, because all the lower
principl es of his being are nothing but the effects of his thinking .
29
L E S S 0 N 0 N
ME N T A L P I C T U R I N G
The force which dir ects the vibrative forces throughout the
system is MENTAL PI CTURING. Form, color and sound being inseparabl y
connected with all vibratory manifestation, it follows that whenever a
certain rate of vibration is established within the auric forces, it
manifests itself through the formation of forms, or figures in that
energy corresponding to the pictures, likewise in certain colors,
shades and tints and also in corresponding colors .
The point that the s tudent should bear in mind is this: When-
ever the energy begins to move in accordance with a certain rate of
vibration, immediately that energy, by reason of that vibration ,
gathers into certain geometrical figures, corresponding to that rate
of vibration, each figure being the effect of that vibratory state .
These organisms are formed just as distinctly as any organisms on the
physical plane, these geometrical figures being the organs of all
chemical formations. Likewise, the colors and the sounds are produced
and these are all the effects of corresponding rates of vibration ; the
rate of vibration must necessarily express itself in this form, color
and sound. Inasmuch as the vibration expresses itself in this way, it
should be borne in mind that by visualizing the consciousness upon a
given form, color, or sound so that there is repeated in our conscious-
::tess the vibration corresponding to that , that form, color or sound is
set up within the aura. If it be a clear mental perception or rather mental
p!.cture, that is to say, a picture of an intellectual character, it
w::1 set up that vibration in the Mental Body. If it be emotional rather ,
:.~ !'ollows that it is established in the Astral Fluid. In either case,
~oTe~er, we have the vibration springing from the picture.
It has been shown in previous lessons that vibration is the force
:a~~ ~!'the different states of health and disease , in fact, health
==~=; =a~ely an harmonious state of vibration, while disease is a dis-
cc.:-:.~: ·:::~atory state, and it was also shown that chemical formations
30
were produced through vibrations in the mental body, for Mental Chemis-
try is nothing but the effect through the chemistry of the :form which is
generated through the vibration passing through the Mental Body. Astral
Chemistry is also the organisms which are produced in the Astral Body
by reason of the vibration imparted to the Astral Fluid. The emotion,
therefore, generates the form, the geometrical :figure which is the
product o:f this vibratory activity. Thus all of the vibrations which
act upon either the Astral or the Mental Body, and through the Astral,
upon the life force, that which also acts upon the Etheric Double - in
fact, that vibra tory force which is the l aw back of the manifestations
in the three worlds, is the effect of Mental Picturing, by the picture
which is formed in mind or the idea, in other words, the vibration is
established. The moment we form in mind the picture, or the idea, we set
up the corresponding vibration. As we are negative, drawing into the
center, being governed by Desire, we cause this motion, this vibratory
impulse arising from the idea, to :flow inward, from the surface to the
center, and as we are positive, as we a re acting through the Will, we
cause, through the fiat this vibration to move outward from the center o:f
our being to the surface . This vibration is the outgrowth of Mental
Picturing, the first step from the Picture, Will, being the positive
expression of this vibration, causing it to flow outward :from the center,
while Desire becomes the Negative expression and causes it to flow in-
ward :from the surface toward the center. These twofold activities,
inward from the surface to the center, or Desire, and outward from the
center to the surface, or Will, are the twofold activities of Mental
Picturing. Mental Picturing, however, is the principle back o:f vibr a -
tion, which expresses itself in and through vibr ation. Everything , ther e-
fore, is the outgrowth of Mental Picturing.
In order, therefore, to accomplish any results which we would
wish to accomplish in our bodies, it is only necessary to establish
the requisite vibration. If we can control the vibratory activity of
the aur a, we can in this way, control the state of hea lth, the cheoicals
that are formed in the aura, the circulation of the di:ffere::t prin-
ciples and everything of the kind, because the state or condition of
all those principles is the effect of the r a te of vibration Thich is
going on within the aura. Consequently, to control :.t.e ·::.br ation is to
control the harmony or discord as the case may be , T:::..cb is the cause of
health and disease. It is also to regulate the fo:-:::et. ! on of chemicals and
everything of the kind.
It will be readily seen that c ontr ol of t!:!e vibration o:f the aura
gives control of the entire physical, astral and oental condition of
the being and as this vibration i s the direct result of the mental pic-
turing , of the pictures tha t are specifically f or oed in the conscious-
ness, it will follow that t he contr ol of those pictures gives a control
of the entire system, because it controls the vibration. It is the func-
31
:.:..:::: c~ :.~ e :.=agination to form those pictures . Of course, in the
s::::-:.c:.es: se:lse of the word, the pictures formed by the imagination are
~::-al ~<1:.:.e as much as they are mental ; but the imagination deals with
:.:::e ~or=ation of pictures - images- and it is thus its function to reg-
·~c:.e t~e :magination, the visualizing upon certain things, and as we
cc:::.!'o: the visualizing, we secure a control of the vibration as it goes
c:: ~~oughout the entire system. It is for this reason that control
o~ :.!:.e imagination is so very important. The difficulty is, so many peo-
p:e do not realize that the imagination is always directing vibration.
':~ey are willing to agree that a person can form mental pictures by con-
centration, by direct, systematic visualization, of course , he can
form those pictures, but to their minds, it is not true that he is form-
ing those pictures anyhow.
Now, this is the point which the student should bear in mind very
carefully and persistently: You cannot keep from forming those pic-
tures as you are allowing your imagination to operate, for all imaginary
activity is imaging, is painting pictures in the consciousness and
such visualization is directing the vibration of the Aura, is thus
exercising its influence on the Astral and Mental Bodies and the Etheric
Double. Thus the whole system is the product of the imagination, little
as people are willing to realize it.
It is as true today as it was in Napoleon' s time, that imagina-
tion rules the world, for every thought and every emotion is really the
outgrowth of imagination. The vibratory forces which move throughout
the system, which build up those chemicals in the Mental Body, the Astral
Body and the Etheric Double, are the result of corresponding pictures
which are the product of the imagination.
Do not for one moment be deceived. There is no force in your nature
so potent for weal or woe as your own imagination. The Imagination
should , therefore, be kept under control . You should use it for the
purpose of forming mental pictures to direct the vibration in the proper
manner. By this we mean that you should lay down in your mind a general
field of vibration ; you should realize the vibratory forces which you
want to maintain; that is to say, realizing what effect you want to
produce and the pictures necessary to generate the vibration which
will produce that effect, and keep them always before the consciousness,
by holding before you the picture. Keep imaging that result; contin-
ually keep visualizing upon it and in this wa y; by this process of vis-
ualization, keep the vibration going which will bring about that result.
It is really as a means unto the end of maintaining these pictures
in mind that Healers have adopted the use of affirmations and denials .
Jenials , however, will be seen to be very undesirable when we realize
teat the power of everything of this kind consists in its ability for
the forcation of mental pictures, because denying a thing is just as
efficacious for forming a picture of it as affirming. It is not what
32
you say about a certain condition that directs the vibration; it is the
fact that you have in your consciousness a picture of that condition,
consequently, denials should never be resorted to because they simply
help to fix in the subconsc ious a picture of the undesirable condition,
ane therefore , set up the vi brat ion which will bring about the reali-
zatio~ of that state . Affirmations, however, work along constructive
lines, for by the affirmation we form a picture of the thing affirmed,
and that is the end and aim of affirmations .
Suggest ion is resorted to for precisely the same reason, and the
onl y value in suggestion is in its utility as a means of forming a pic-
ture in the patient's mind of the desired condition.
Christian Science works along the same lines; its methods are
simply directed unto the formation of the picture of health.
Banish the picture of disease, wha tever it may be and establish
the picture of health, a nd by so doing you are establishing the vibration
of harmony in pla ce of that of discord , and therefore, bringing about
a state of health.
The healer in order to heal, must establish the vibration of har-
mony throughout his system, by the format ion of the picture of health,
and then transmit this harmonious vibration to the body of the patient.
So, as a matter of fact , Mental Picturing is the force back of vibra-
tion and vibration the influence which heals .
There is no greater force in all the world than this force of
mental picturing and it should be used as a means unto the end of bring-
ing about health. However, it is not confined to t hera peutics , but may
be used for any kind of development. We may use it in the line of psychic
development or for psychological unfoldment or anything of the kind.
It is not, however, the key to the entire problem of human evolution.
The Bible says, "As a man thinketh i n his heart, so is he , n and why?
The thought of the heart as it descends to the ma n is an effect of the
picture which is formed in the consciousness and thus, as in the pic-
ture, so will be the vibr a t ion, therefore, so will be the activity of
the diverse principles of the being ; so will be the vibratory force
which will build up the being, a long those lines.
We are the product of our ideals , because the ideals fix and de-
termine the picture, hence the vibrati on and , t~erefore , the act ivity
of the entire being . The value of the social or public ideals consists
in its utility as a means of fixing a certainp:..cture in the minds of
the multitude. The public at lar ge has the p:..cture fixed in its con-
sciousness; this pi cture is governing all its activities , governing
its thinking and feeling, its physica.:.., :1oral and mental states are the
natural outgrowth of that picture, which is , in turn, the effect of the
ideal.
Our ideals, therefore, oake us . Civilizat ion is the effect of
our Utopias , because those Utopias determine the pictures which a re
33
built up before us, and therefore, the vibration which shall pass
through our principl es, which determine the formation of their chem-
icals and build up our being.
Visualization upon the picture is, therefore , the force back of
vibration. Everything which is accomplished through vibration is the
effect of this imaging. The imagination, being the i::laging faculty ,
is the creative faculty of the human consciousness . I~agination be-
ing creative, we become what we imagine. No matter wbet~er we intend
it as constructive imaginat i on or not, we are, neve::-":1::e.:ess t!:e effect
of our imagination. All development is the process o~ .-_:r:e 11
:5"7er be-
coming. " We are everlastingly becoming what ~e ~=ag~=e, =ot Y~at we
imagine ourselves to be, simply, but whatever tbe ~=as~~:~o~ ~ay be .
Whatever comes into our imagination, whatever pic:.-..:.:-s :.s ~o::-=eC: estab-
lishes the rate of vibration corresponding to :.:sa.:~~~ :~ :.s i~ time
builds up, in the finer principles of our bei~g a cc::-::-as~~=~=-~s state .
Thus our very being is the effect of our i mag~a~=-~= a=~ Te ca-~ot in
any way escape the consequence. The only v;ay ~s :.c ·-z-; :.::;i a ::sT set of
pictures in our Mental Picture Gallery. If we C.o ::C:~s , Te -r~:: . ~ time
establish different vibrations, having differs:::. ~~:~a=~es .
The thing to be borne in mind is that ~::a,g.:-a:~:= ~~es =ot simply
regulate the human character, the memory a::C. -::=:c::e :2::.=;s. :::::: ~t really
governs the formation, the organism of t:.e ::o~: a=~ G~ :::.e c=::s:. ~tu­
tion of man himself.
Imagination is not simply a mora~ ~ c::-~e. ::.:: ~s E: sc c::.e=ical ,
its influence being quite as effective ~= :.~e =~a.:= c~ ~:.==~s:::-? as any
of the other influences .
And so as are the pictures whic::. we !:a:::g :..:.:;: ~:: .-_:::e ?~ct:.u-e Gallery
of our Mind, so will be the vibratio:! o!' c:.::- .l.::.:!'a a:1C. as is the vibration
of the Aura, so will be the cheoical p::-ccesses o~ the Mental and Astral
bodies and of the Etheric Double, and as a::-e ~:::e processes of chemical
formation in those principles , so will be t:::e chemical state of the
body, and as is this chemical state, and the vibration, the harmony
throughout the system, so will be the state of health or disease through-
out the entire being.
34
L E S S 0 N 0 N
URIC AC I D DISEASES
One particular type of diseases is due to the presence of Uric
Acid in the Blood. The poison growing out of this condition or rather
the effect of this poison in the blood, produces quite a number of
diseases such as Rheumatism, Eczema, Scrofula when not caused by
syphilis or mercurial poisoning, bright ' s disease and all of that type.
These diseases are simply the effects of Uric Acid in the bl ood
and tissue . Of course, while it is simply in the blood it does not
produce this disease effect, but it is the effort of Nature to throw off
the uric acid poison, which produces the disease .
Understand, t hese diseases are simply curative attempts on the
part of nature to accomplish relief . The body becomes diseased in this
way.
What is the cause of Uric Acid getting in the blood? What is
Uric Acid? It is an acid poison that accumulates in the system as a
r esul t of too much cooked prot ein. It is due to this and nothing else .
The system requires a certain quantity of protein in order that the
muscl es and tissues may be built up, protein being the great tissue
builder; but when this quantity has been supplied, when the tissues
have been nourished with a sufficient quantity of protein , a sufficient
quantity placed in the system, and the quantity placed in the system has
continually increased until the tissues can make use of no more , until
the maximum amount of nutrition has taken place and no more protein can
be used by the system, if we continue to feed it, a fermentation takes
place and the residue becomes tra.nsmuted into Uric Acid. Uric Acid is,
therefore, the result of the fermentation of the surplus protein that
has accumulated in the system. This Uric Acid a ccumulates in the blood
and t here r emains in the form of an Ursal poison.
I t is the mission of the kidneys to separate the Uric Acid from
the bl ood and they will do this to the full extent of their ability.
When the kidneys become overworked it is because there is too much work
35
!'or them to do. Bright 1
s disease and a ll kidney troubles of that type
a:::-e due t o an overworked condition of the kidneys and to the fact that
t~e kidney itself becomes poisoned, diseas ed , and the uric acid begins
to dest r oy t he tissue of the kidney. It is for this reason that Bright 1
s
disease is so difficult to cure. It is not, like the other uric acid
diseas es , merely an effect of the poisoning of t he system, but it is due
t o the destruction of the kidney itse lf, and of course, as the kidney
i s destroyed, its efficiency as a cleanser, as a separ a tor is dest royed
and thus the poison gets worse and worse. Dea th is inevitable unless it
can be cured at a very early stage .
The other diseases are due to a poisoni ng of t he tissue; that is
to say, scrofula and eczema are. Rheumatism i s due to the a ccumulation
of uric acid in the joints, in t he case of chronic rheumatis m and in the
muscles in the case of inflamma tory rheuma tism. When it a ccumulates in
the muscles, the muscle becomes inflamed and this produces tha t acute
painful condition.
But these are all efforts at the purification of the blood. Those
medicines which are found to be most efficacious in the cure of those
uric acid diseases owe their curative properties to their utility as
stimulants of the kidneys, as by stimulating the kidneys, they help
them to throw off a greater quantity of the uric acid, while other
remedies are also advantageous in tha t they drive it out through the
skin. Anything which will quicken the excretory functions will be found
to be advantageous , to a certain extent, but the kidneys must do the
principal part of the work because it is their function to separate the
uric acid from the blood.
When one eats raw protein it will not cause this uric acid forma-
tion because it will not be digested. The System will not digest any
more raw protein than is required, it becoming difficult to digest it
in proportion to the quantity that is eaten , therefore, over-eating
will not do any serious harm if it be a raw food diet ; but if the food be
cooked it becomes easy to digest and as a result of this ease of diges-
tion we find that the system takes up too much of the food; it goes into
the blood and enters the tissue and thus produces the poison condition.
Of course, all meats have this tendency because they are a ll eaten cooked
and will be found to be very injurious. Beans, peas, lentils, in fact all
t he legumens, are very detrimental for the same reason. Cheese is also
detrimental because it is made by applying heat to the milk, and boiled
mil k , nut preparations made by heating are also detrimental . Peanut
butt er unless made raw, is also detrimental because it impa rts too much
cooked pr otein. The protein contained in cereals is also detrimental
to the health of the system, has a tendency to impart too m
uch ur ic acid
to the system. All nuts in the cooked form, in fact, everything contain-
:.~g protein , if cooked will help to increase the quantity of Uric Acid.
I n or der to treat a patient who has any of t hose d isea ses it will,
36
therefore, be found necessary first to stop him from eating cooked
protein in order that he may not accumulate any more of this protein
element. Therefore, whole grain bread if cooked, should be entirely
excluded from his food. Put him on a diet of white bread if he is eating
cooked bread. Do not allow him to eat any cheese, or any nut preparation
made with fire, any parched nuts or nuts cooked in any way, meat, the
legumens or anything of that kind; and a lso it will be found advantageous
to entirely exclude from his diet all protein, for the time being, be-
cause the system is now loaded up with protein. This disease would not
have come on had it not been that there was too much protein, and for a
short time it is better to cut the patient off from those things, giving
him a diet composed exclusively of sugar, starch foods, the organic
salts, etc.
Also it must be borne in mind that the protein when taken in too
large quantities does not stay in the system long, but is soon fermented
and becomes uric acid, therefore, the abstaining from any protein should
be for a few weeks at most; then begin to give the patient a diet of raw
protein with the other foods .
But the uric acid must not only be kept out of the system, that is,
we must not only cease to put the cooked protein into the system so as
to make more uric acid, but we must get rid of that which is already in
the system, therefore, a mere refraining from improper diet will not,
alone, cure those diseases. We must get rid of the uric acid , and this
is accomplished by nature, through the agency of the eliminant salts.
These salts are potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, and
silicon; but the inorganic salt is not an eliminant, only the organic
salt; that is the salt where the molecules are bound together in loose
affinity. They eliminate the poisons in this way; a molecule of sodium is
united in loose affinity to another combination. You will find sodium
and chloral united, forming sodium chloride in close affinity. To this
compound molecule of sodium chloride there will be joined in loose af-
finity a molecule of sodium. When a molecule of some poisonous gas or
acid comes in the vicinity of this sodium chloride as it has a strong
affinity, a close affinity for sodium, the sodium leaves its loose a f -
finity and goes to its close affinity and thus joining witb it, goes to
the lungs, and having reached the lungs , the carbon dioxide , if it be
carbon dioxide, is expelled; then the sodium goes back to the sodium
chloride again. Thus we see, the loose affinity oerely keeps these
policemen of the system ready to escort carbo3 dioxide out of the sys-
tem, and what applies to carbon dioxide .here , applies to the other
poisonous gases of the system in other ways .
Sodium in the organic form is , therefore, the means of eliminating
from the system poisonous gases and acids, but when it becomes inorganic,
bound in close affinity, it does not exercise this function. It fol-
lows, therefore, that in order to get this efferent principle it is
37
~e c essa::-y that the salts be organic, bound together in loose affinity.
::::e =:..::er a l sa lt is always inorganic ; the vegetable salt organic when
:::; -
~ cooked . 'Ihe giving of mineral drugs is consequently improper ; they
:..:: ::ot ha ve this eff erent action; this can be secured only by the use
c:" ·;sgetables in the uncooked form.
: he way to t ake medicine is, therefore, to eat it in the form of
~ coc , and to eat it raw. These salts are conta ined in fruits, nuts ,
ce:-eals , and a number of vegetables and in herbs more than the vegetable
=~:.. ts . There a re more of them in spina ch t han in anything else , though
ca:oage, cauliflower and kale contai n quite a good dea l ; also the vege-
: a!:le fruits, s weet peppers, egg plant, toma toes , and cucumbers are
~ ~und to be quite rich in the efferent sa lts .
A patient with any of these uric acid diseases should consequently
be put on a diet of green herbs in the form of salads , such as kale,
ca uliflower, cabbage, spinach, asparagus , mustard gre~ns, and l ettuce.
Celery is also good, and the vegetable fruits such as tomatoes , cucum-
bers , egg plant , sweet pepper s, etc., also the frui t s such as apples
and pears will be found very advantageous. Ripe olives when not pre-
served in salt, a r e excellent also , because of the large quantity of ef-
ferent sa lts contained in them, particula rly potassium. Melons are
one of the greatest storehouses of efferent salts and should be eaten
freely in troubles of this kind. If these herbs and vegetable fruits and
other fruits a re eaten in proper quantities it will be found they will
soon supply the organic sa lts in sufficient quantity to carry out the
uric acid from the system, but it should be borne in mind that a ll they
can do is to carry this a cid to the organs whose duty it is to eliminate
it . They will carry a part of it out through the skin, it is true , but
principa lly through the kidneys ; they will pour it into the kidneys,
a s it were. The kidneys mus t be strengthened in order that they may
elimina te the poisonous acids . It is for this reason that mere dieting
will not cure a disease of this type. It is necessary to resort to
s omething else. The kidneys must be strengthened and to do this we must
resort to metaphysical treatment . Sugges tion is a very good thing -
exer c i ses a great influence . We suggest tha t the kidneys are working;
t~e for ce of them is str engthened and they a r e eliminating, throwing
oat t he uric acid , because the kidneys will d o what we suggest for them
to do . The kidneys of the patient will obey the physician ' s suggestion
~e do t hat work; also they will get strengt h if the sugges tion that
:::ey a r e strong be given , because strength will be imparted to them by
::-eason of this suggestion.
:.ikewise, if we resort to the u se of magnetism or ps ych ica l fo rce
e ~~ co even greater good, because as this is imparted to t h e kidneys ,
::- : ::e ::e::-·.;e centers controlling them, they will gain strength and thus
:.:-.:-:w ~::: :.l::e poison. It is, theref ore , necessary in giving a magnetic
:.:-ea:=e:::, to visua lize upon the kidneys, to send the current of mag-
38
netism there and see them eliminating the poisons; make a picture of
them gathering the uric acid out of the blood, separating it and throw-
ing it into the bladder so that it can be eliminated in the form of urine .
In this way we will be able to remove the poison, and rheumatism, eczema,
scrofula and those diseases will be cured; of course, not overcome be-
cause eczema and scrofula are skin diseases due to the elimination of
uric acid through the skin, and so when we have taken out all of the uric
acid from the blood the skin will still be inflamed; the poison will
still be there. In this case it will be found necessary to entirely
magnetize the body and then cause a current of magnetic force to flow
outward through the pores of the skin, dissolving the poison tha t is there
in the skin and taking it out in the form of an ether, and you have got
to see it, to see this magnetic force flowing outward, the healthy aura
carrying out the aura of the disease until it is entirely eliminated.
Likewise, you have got to treat the joints, or the muscles in a case of
rheumatism, causing the healthy ether to flow through and to drive out
the ether of the disease , and carry it out of the system completely be-
cause it permeates the entire system, and you may heal the body but if
this condition is in the etheric double, if you do not throw off the
etheric counterpa rt of the uric acid, you will find it will poison the
system again ; will descend and accumulate in the system and the patient
will have to be cured over and over again.
As we thus accomplish the work of freeing the system from uric
acid, we cure those diseases; but Bright 1
s Disease, being a disease of
the kidney itself', presents greater difficulties . In this case we must
treat the organ by sending a current of magnetism through it and re-
building the tissue that has been taken away, that has been consumed.
This must be built , and as it is rebuilt, replaced, the kidney is built
up, becomes firm and solid and is able to do its work properly. Then it
will be found, to be relieved of this specific condition, it must re-
ceive more vitality so that it can throw off the uric acid.
Now, what is it that causes the perishing of the kidney? It is the
accumulation of the acid there faster than the kidney can get rid of
it which causes the poisoning of the tissue; therefore, the treatment
must be to give strength to the kidney and to stimulate its throwing off
tendency so that it will be helped to eliminate and get rid of this
poison more and more, faster and faster, and as it gets rid of it, is
cleaned off, then we must build up the tissue by the action of magnetism,
by the use of mental picturing and by the activity of the creative energy
as it is sent there. Suggestion should be used to this end, a lso and by
building up the kidney in this way and by helping it to get rid of the
uric acid, you will be able to cure Bright 1
s Disease or any of the other
diseases.
To recapitulate briefly, the treatment for all uric acid diseases
must be:
39
First - Abstinence from all cooked protein in the diet, and from
a ll protein of any kind for a short time .
Second - A diet largely composed of vegetabl es and vegetable
fruits, eaten raw, supplemented by other fru:. t.s a:ld nuts co::J.taining ef-
ferent salts, but preferably fruits and nuts , oy;i.::g to -:!:e large quan-
tity of protein in the latter.
Third - Suggestion as a means of stim...:la:.:.::g -:.::::s
kidneys.
-,....- .: .....; ...._
c.-.-_ .. _ ... ! of the
Fourth - The use of magnetism to help t!:e ~:.:::::::; : =:.:::ow off the
poison.
Fifth- Certain exercises, Yoga pract:.ces. :.=.a:. .:...:..: ·:e :'ound
advantageous in stimulating the kidneys and c: ::::::- :z:::-:· a: ~:-,gt=t""'s .
Sixth- The practice of concentrating c:: ::::: _;-==.:.:..::::, c.::::.sing a
healthy ether to permeate his etheri.c doub: e ~=- ~:.
.-:.:.::b ::::. a:-~ :.he
diseased ether until it is driven through t!:e :;::.:::-::: :::' :.~= :::.;.~ a::C.. thus
escapes from the patient .
Seventh- For Bright's Disease, the :.::-::=.:.:::::.-: ::' :.:::: ~: :..::e: :.tself
in order that it may be built up and nouris!:e::. - -:.::.= ::- :;;::::.:.s.::::...:.::.g of the
perishing tissue.
If all these factors are intellige::::7 ~====-===- · :.: :.:: te found
that all Uric Acid Diseases, Bright' s :>:.seas: :::::~:.=:., ..::==::.::: :>::-o-
gressed too f ar, can be cured without :-e:.:..; :-..::. :.: =-~ _
:.::::-::· ~e :ess to
try to cure them without regulating :.!:e c.:.:: ::' ::::: ~E::.;:::. :ecause
he is continually putting into t he sys:.e:: : :::: ~.·:::-:- ::::.=: ;::..s:::. ::::..ch is
causing the disease .
Bear in mind that Uric Acid D:.seases a:-e ::.: ::-;::; :.:::e - c-:.:'es:.ations
of poison which is in the syste:=, -:!:e c:.:.: Ta:-::. -~- :.::-es-:a-. :. ~ :: a C'..:!'ative
attempt in other words, and the disease, -:.::::e::-e:'ore , ca::1 be ?::'~~e::-ly
cured only by getting rid of the uric ac:.c , e::c ~~is cenno~ te co~e
while the patient is continually acc·..u::ulati!lg ~ore and core o:' .:.~ ; but
free the system from Uric Acid and every tiric .Acid Disease wi:: d:.sappear
in a comparatively short time.
40
L E S S 0 N C :;
S T A R C H ? 0 I S 0 N
One of the greatest sources o~ c!sease is ~£e poison which a c-
cumulates in the system from eat!::1g :.co =.lcb cooked starch . The starch
globule is by nature provided T!t~ a woo~~ envelope which entirely
covers it, excluding the saliva, so that it is "ith considerable diffi -
culty it is digested . It is no~ t :-:.J.e, J:owever, that the saliva is abso-
lutely unable to act upon this woocy envelope . That is the theory
ordinarily held by physicians, but it is inaccurate . The saliva can act
upon this and dissolve it and t hus get to the starch globule so as to
act upon it, but it requires a considerable quantity of saliva to accom-
plish this feat . It is with considerable difficulty that this work can
be accomplished, therefore , there is but a small quantity of starch that
can be digested in this way. As a result, there is no danger of starch
poisoning where the starch is taken into the stomach in t he r aw form.
That which is not dissolved and thus a cted upon by the saliva will simply
pass through the system without any change taking place , will go through
the bowels and escape; but when cooking t akes place, when fire is ap-
plied to the starch, this woody envelope is dissolved by the heat . The
result is, the saliva comes directly in conta ct with the starch and thus
transmutes it . It should be understood, also , that the starch is no
longer organic; that is, the molecules bound together in loose affinity,
but by the a ction of heat, has become inorganic , this loose affinity
having been broken up and they are now bound together in close affinity
or else not connected at a ll. When the starch is taken into the mouth in
this form the saliva transmutes it, not into grape sugar , as it would if
it were in the raw state , but into Glucose , and in this shape it enters
the chyle and thus passes into the blood . The same thing takes pl ace
tha t t akes place when you put cooked starch in water , tha t thick, milky
solution is formed , and thus it mixes with t he blood. If you wer e to put
raw starch into the syst em that way, it would not mix at a ll, and unless
it were changed into the chyle proper and could become a pa rt of the
41
constituency of the blood, it would simply pass away without any
~~ure at all; but when cooked, it produces this condition in the
blood ; the blood becomes poisoned by it and in time it acts upon the
tissues so that they become permeated with this glucose. The system
U3dertakes to eliminate the glucose; the blood wants to get rid of it;
:~ t ries to purify itself by eliminating the glucose . It does this by
transferring it to the tissue and a number of diseases grow up out of
this effort of nature to eliminate the glucose from the blood. The
oucous membrane receives the glucose and undertakes to get rid of it,
and a cold is nothing in the world but the condition of the mucous
membrane growing out of this glucose poisoning. The glucose is carried
to the mucous membrane and there is being discharged, and a cold is,
consequently the effort of Nature to eliminate the glucose from the
mucous membrane. A change of air does not originate a cold, it simply
precipitates one; the origin of the cold is in the glucose that is
poisoning the tissue. A change in the temperature or a change in the
s tate of humidity in the atmosphere, exposure, anything of that kind,
simply precipitates this poisonous influence that is operative in the
system, causing it to come to the surface and is, therefore, a healing
action. It is a curative act on the part of nature - is a form of
elimination. '
When there is so much glucose in the system that it cannot be
gotten rid of in this way, but continues to pass through the mucous
membrane, becoming chronic and l asting an indefinite period of time,
it becomes catarrh. All of these diseases such as Hay Fever, In-
fluenza, Diphtheria and Tonsilitis, are manifestations of the same
thing. Not that we would deny the germ of diphtheria, for instance, or
affirm that there is no truth in what physicians teach in regard to
the nature of those diseases, but this we would affirm and that abso-
lutely without question or limitation; those diseases can operate only
in a fruitful soil; they must have congenial environment and that
congenial environment or fruitful soil is provided by tissue permeated
with glucose and in no other way, consequently, all of those diseases
are where there has been an effort on the part of Nature to eliminate;
attempts to get rid of the glucose. The disease of bronchitis is
another of the same class; lagrippe and everything of that description
are simply the efforts of Nature to eliminate this glucose. Lupus is
another one of the same class, a disease where the system is eliminat-
~~g glucose , through the skin and so much of it is brought to the
s~~ace that in time it starts up tuberculosis of the skin, and then
~~e germs can get in their work.
Sow, those remedies are only valuable as corrective for lupus
~=--E -
- ~e:p to eliminate the poison from the skin, such as the Violet
~a:, ~~e Tinsen light, the Sun baths -anything of that kind or other
~~ea~=e=~s which have the influence of inducing copious perspiration
42
and stimulating the eliminating action of the skin. Whenever you do
this and get rid of the glucose, the disease will disappear.
Consumption or Pulmonary tuberculosis is another form of the
same trouble. It is a case where the glucose has accumulated in the
lungs and this provided a favorable feeding ground for the bacilli
tuberculosi. Consumption is, therefore, the effect of Starch Poison,
just like all the other diseases of this type . If the glucose accumu-
lates in the lungs a case of consumption is inevitable. If it can be
kept out, there is no danger.
The treatment for consumption must, therefore, first of all, be
the elimination of all forms of cooked starch from the diet because it
was in this way that so much starch accumulated in the system, more
than the nutrition could make use of. We must confine the patient to
a diet of raw starch. What is it that must be eliminated then? Potatoes
of every kind, because they are almost exclusively starch; also
carrots and parsnips and every thing of that kind, if cooked; cooked
chestnuts, because they contain quite a quantity of starch. That crowning
iniquity of modern degeneration, cooked bananas, must also be elimi-
nated for they are almost entirely formed of starch; white bread of
every description, in fact all kinds of cooked bread excepting gluten
bread, where the starch has been taken out of the wheat - that may be
used - but all other forms of bread, all cooked cereals, legumens,
unless eaten while green, and everythlng of that description must be
eliminated from the diet. Let the diet consist of nuts and fruits,
mainly. Sugar and protein, with fats also should be a considerable
part of the diet. It is best to entirely eliminate starch for a few
days and then begin on a diet of raw starch with the other foods. Do
not follow the theory, however, that a meat diet is necessary in cases
of consumption. There is no truth in this, but what is important is a
diet of protein, mainly. Sugar is not a good substitute for starch
because they are both carbon-hydrates and are very closely allied. The
other elements are fats and protein and should be employed freely.
The use of meat has grown out of the idea that it was the only
form or at least, the best form in which protein could be made use of.
It has also been supposed to be the best form of fat. Cod liver oil
and all those abominations are not at all necessary, but a diet of
nuts, nut butter and olive oil, - vegetable fats are what are required.
A great many physicians think that animal food is necessary for
the consumptive. This is not true, either. There is no occasion for
the use of animal food at all . Eggs, butter and milk are not needed at
all and a diet of nuts and acid fruits, with plenty of fats as con-
tained in vegetable oils will be found to give much better results
than any form of animal food.
The patient suffering from any of these troubles should be in
the open air, as much as possible; as the oxygen he gets in the system
43
will have the effect of building up the fires of tbe :,oc.:; anc driving
out a nd destroying this accumulated glucose . ~nus ~~e ~ea: ~~ ill be
greatly improved. Also, the Prana which t~e pa~ie~~ ~ :: ge~ ~~ the
a ir and f rom the sunshine will help t o bui:c 1:.:.:: ::p a::C. s~=- e~gt.hen his
sys t em and enable him to throw off those po:s:=s .
It should be borne in mind that the pe~s;~~a:::= =:en o~e
t hrows off by reason of physical exercise !:as :::: :.=::o:·.::=c: :>~ carrying
away t he poisonous glucose and in this waj·, =~~:s~ =~:=s : :: ~e
f ound advisable, but should not be taken to s7.:=~~ . := ~~== :ase there
wi l l be danger of the system being weake~ee a= ~ ~=;::::~ :~ ::s
vitality.
Another thing that should be borne i~ =:=~ :s :~: a:: :~~se
types of disease are due to a magnetic co=C.i: : := =~ :~: ~- =:::-: ­
M
agnetic forces of the body; that i s t o sa:,·.:::.: .=.: ::..::-.::.:.a::.::1 o=
glucose in t he system produces this magn e :~ c :: = ~:: ::= . an~ :::.: equi -
librium is overturned, the system gets wea~ : = :::.: ::::·:-: : a: =o::-ce ,
a nd a cure can be brought about only by res~:::-:=g :~: =~ -!::= ::-::.:=,
consequently it will be found advantageous : : :=: ::- :~s= - ~= :::~:::-ical
force in the body. Any kind of treatment ~:~::. ::: ::c~ :: -:.a:
r esult will be found to be advantageous .
The patient, should in addition to :~: ~::: ~==•= ~::-:s:::-::ed,
eat freely of green herbs and vegetable =~ : -s ::. ::.: :-a s:a :a so as
t o secure as much of the eliminant sa: :s as ;:~s:::: . =~ ::.is ay he
will be able to eliminate the princ ipa: pa~ · =~ ~::.: ;:~::se ;::so3. He
should also be given treat ment by sugges:::= ~~ =cg=::::a :::· . =o::- the
purpose of dissolving and driving o::~ :::e g:.:~:s: ==-== :::.: S¥s:e=,
driving it through t h e t issues and a: s~ :'..!: == :~=:. : : : :. ; see:.:
di ssolve, throw it int o the et her CL!t ::::= :a~s= :::.~s e:~er :o =:o~
out wa rd through the por es of the s~:= ~ ::: :: : s e=::::-e:y e::~i3at.e d
f rom the system. If you have t o t.::-ea: a case == cat.arrb t.hi s curr ent
of magnetic force should be made t o pe::-=ea:e :~e body and gr adually be
thr own out through the mucous membr a,e , T i~ ~ a picture of dissolving,
throwing off and carrying out all t he po: son , and also a ll of the
~nfl ammation - everything of that kind . See i t sweeping out and clean-
i!lg out of the membrane all of this poison, inflammation and everything
of t hat kind. If it be Lupus, then let it go to the surfa ce and in
your mind's eye see it dissolving and carrying this poison out through
: be por es of the skin, allaying the infla mmation and cleansing the
s~~ . If it be consumption, you must work on the lungs and dissol ve
:~e g! ucose , throw it into the ether and drive it out through the
:~gs ; destroy the disease germs , dissolve all the corruption or pus
-:2: wa:· be in the lungs, and everything of that kind - all the
C.~~=ase:C:. poisonous m
atter. This must be dissolved into the ether and
~ :· ·:= ::::=p: etel y out of the body and beyond the Aura. Then, the
-:~ss~e. :~ ~: be decaying or eating away, must be healed up. When a ll
44
the diseased tissue has been dissolved and carried out, then it must
be treated and healed up and this must also be done by Magnetism ;
then, when you have healed it up, if you are treating metaphysically,
you may continue your treatments to make the cells grow back again and
cause the cavities to be filled up with new cellular tissue . Of course,
you have to keep the picture quite distinct and see the cells as such,
growing back, going back into place . If you do not, instead of forming
new cells you will simply form a mass of connective tissue, which will
be better than the cavity, but nothing like so desirable as to have
the cavity filled up with new cells and air passages; but you can
completely restore the lung by treatment of this kind.
By the combination of proper dieting , proper exercises and fresh
a ir, sunlight, etc., hygienic methods of living , with suggestive
therapeutics and magnetic healing - or the higher forms of healing are
still better - it is possible to cure any case of consumption where
the patient has lungs enough to enable him to live until you have time
to accomplish the cure. There is no question about your ability to
restore the lungs if your patient l ives ·l~?g enough for you to do i t.
The only danger is that he will die before you have time to get in the
work. But with the method herein outlined, it is possible to cure any
case of consumption in the world.
Fresh air , sunshine, plenty of exercise, the electrical prin-
ciple in place of the magnetic , and the proper diet as herein
directed, coupled with the proper mental attitude, and plenty of
magnetism (but the magnetism should be positive, that is to say elec-
trical force rather than negat i ve or magnetic) will cure any case of
consumption in the world, where the patient has strength enough to
hold out until the treatment has time to get in its work on his organism.
Remember, the bacilli tuberculosi operate only in congeni al
soil. They are not the cause of consumption, but rather the effect ,
the instrument of destroying the poison which has accumulated in the
system and , therefore, an effort on the part of nature toward a cure.
They are the efforts of nature to get rid of the poison that you ha ve
placed in the body. Usually they kill the body in clearing out the
glucose, but the proper treatment and diet will r elieve the disease of
so much rubbish and will , therefore, make it quite easy for the glucose
to be eliminated and permit the patient to live .
It should be borne in mind that cooked starch, when taken into
the system goes through a process of fermentat~on and all of the grape
sugar or glucose, r ather , which goes through this fermentative process
is transmuted into a lcohol , excepting that which goes into the forma-
tion of carbonic acid gas . The poisoning resulting to the system from
carbonic acid gas , is, therefore , due largely to the fermentation of
the starch or rather the glucose that comes from grape sugar. The
dangers coming from carbonic acid ga s or from carbon dioxide are
45
largely due to the practice of eating cooked starch. An avoidance of a
diet of cooked starch will greatly relieve the system from the poison
of carbonic acid gas.
46
L E S S 0 N 0 N
S U G A R P 0 I S 0 N
The type of disease which we will consider this time is that
which might be denominated "Sugar Poison," that is to say, those
diseases which are the efforts of nature to eliminate the surplus
cooked sugar which is accumulated in the system.
The longer we study the food problem, the more clearly it will
be impressed upon our minds, that raw food will never accumulate in
the system.
The stomach and other digestive organs can digest only a suffi-
cient quantity to satisfy the demands of nutrition when in the raw
state, but when in the cooked state it becomes so much easier to
digest that the stomach and other organs will digest the food and thus
a larger quantity is converted into chyle and enters the blood in that
state, much more than the system really requires and consequently, it
cannot be made into sound tissue, but accumulates in the system in
this form and then in the course of time must be eliminated in some way.
The system then in its effort to eliminate this poison will produce
certain diseased conditions.
Now, there is one point which you must clearly understand namely,
disease is NOT an evil. Disease is an effort on the part of nature to
eliminate poison. It is an effort to cure and consequently is desir-
able compared to that state of poison which it attempts to eliminate.
Now, when we know this fact we can understand the desirability
of giving to the system only a sufficient quantity of food to supply
nutrition; but when the food is cooked, all that enters the stomach
goes through the digestive processes; therefore, the only safe course
is to eat only uncooked food and in this way the system cannot be
overfed; it will simply pass out through the alimentary canal.
When sugar is cooked there is a chemical change which t akes
place, the result being that it goes through a process of fermentation
when it enters the stomach and by this process of fermentation, a large
47
quantity of it is converted into alcohol ; in fact , all of it which is
digested by the process of fer mentation . The balance goes through a
change which c~nverts it into carbonic acid gas . Now , that part which
is not fermented is taken into the system in the form of organic sugar
and then is used by the system in that way, but it is much more diffi-
cult to organize this cooked sugar into tissue than to organize the
uncooked sugar. As a resul t the gas, of course , poisons the system and
must in the course of time be eliminated ; but also the sugar enters
the system, and that which has been converted into alcohol has pre-
cisely the same effect on the system as any other alcohol will have .
Now, it may not seem reasonable, but let us say absolutely that
there are people , to our personal knowledge , who never touch alcoholic
liquor, who are tetotalers, and yet they have the red nose and , in
fact, ever y sympton of alcoholism, and those persons will be found to
be heavy eaters of cooked sugar. We once knew one , who at every meal ,
would take sugar, make a syrup, and eat a teacupful of the sugar- syrup.
The way he did it, - he would set it down by his plate and whenever he
got ready to eat a morsel o~ bread he would dip the slice of bread
into the syrup and then eat i t - saturated with syrup. All the bread
he used he ate that way ; in fact, he always ate a teacupful of sugar-
syrup besides sweetening everything he ate . He would take a tumbler
and would put in all the sugar that would dissolve in a tumbler of hot
water . I t showed itself in h i s life, in his body and even in his mind .
He acted like a drunken man , although he never touched alcohol .
This evil is avoided by the eating of sugar in the raw state ; it
is not organic, but inorganic sugar, which ferments and makes alcohol.
By cooking sugar it is disorganized and thus easily goes through this
process of fermentation . I f you want to avoid this alcoholic effect,
the only way is to take organic , that is to say, raw sugar into the
system.
Now, when we take a certain quantity of cooked sugar into the
system i t not only produces t his alcoholic , but carbonic acid poison
as well , and it also enters in the form of inorganic sugar into the
system, saturating the tissue and producing the poisonous effect. In
this state man would not live so very long if it were not for the
action of the kidneys in eliminating this poison from the system. Now ,
as long as the kidneys are able to keep out a sufficient quantity of it
and eliminate it , there will be no serious results; but sometimes the
kidneys become overworked and are unable to handle this surplus
quantity of cooked sugar. They cannot get it out of the system, or in
doing so, have become overworked and become deranged. Diabetes is
nothing but the result of cooked sugar in the system. No case of chronic
diabetes has ever been cured by the ordinary medical practice, and
diabetes in the chronic form cannot be cured permanently without a
change in the diet . If you will eliminate cooked sugar from the diet,
48
you will have removed the cause of diabetes. That does not mean that
the patient will get well immediately because when it manifests in the
form of chronic diabetes there has usually been an a ccumulation of ten
or twelve years of sugar poison and it is necessary that we get rid of
that poison before we can ever hope to cure the patient.
What then are we going to do? Well , we must first eliminate
cooked sugar from the diet so that there is no more put into the
system. Then we must adopt a diet which will help to eliminate this
sugar and then we must give such treatment, metaphysical treatment we
mean, as will tend to help the elimination, to get rid of this poison.
At the same time the kidneys must be strengthened because they are
eliminating this poison from the blood and they must be strengthened
so as to do more work. At the same time if there be any organic defect
it must be built up and cured.
In the first place, let us consider the elimination of cooked
sugar. What foods must we eliminate in order to get rid of cooked
sugar? In the first place, we must eliminate all commercial sugar
because it is all cooked, whether cane, maple or beet sugar. It must
all be entirely eliminated from the diet, consequently we must have
nothing to do with it at all . We must eliminate pies, cakes and every-
thing that is sweet which has been cooked. Preserves and canned fruit,
in fact all of cooked food of every description must be eliminated,
also evaporated fruit, and every kind of fruit, in fact, which has gone
through the process of cooking. Candy must be eliminated; the person
must not be permitted to eat anything of that kind, anything of a sweet
character which has gone through the process of cooking. Boiled milk
which, with so many people, is such a great palliative of all the ills
to which flesh is heir, must be eliminated because it has poisoned the
sugar contained in the milk, being in the cooked state.
You say then where a re you going to get the sugar required for
nutrition? You must use organic sugar; that means use fruits in the
natural state, either sun-dried or else fresh. You must use those
fruits; you may use honey also, as it is not a cooked sugar, although
it is not so desirable as the natural fruit sugar contained in sweet
fruits. Ripe bananas in the raw state are very desirable, excellent
food, but should never be cooked. That crowning abomination of deso-
lation, that has entered into the dietary of modern life - fried
bananas, must certainly be eliminated in every case of this kind.
St. John's bread is an excellent form of raw sugar.
Now, no matter how much you ea t in that state it will not hurt
you for the simple reason it may give you a case of dia rrhea, but you
will soon get over it.
Of all the ridiculous nonsens e in the world one of the greatest
is the idea that it will not do for children to eat raw fruit. People
are afraid it will make them sick to eat fruit in a raw state, but
49
will let them sit at the table and stuff themselves on evaporated
fruits, preserves, j allies and all kinds of cooked fruit, the only form
in which it can hurt them, because it gets into the system, otherwise
it simply passes through the alimentary canal. We find this kind of
dietary regime will cut off all sugar poison. Syrups of all kinds must
also be eliminated.
How are we going to get rid of that sugar which has already
accumulated in the system? In the same way we get rid of all the other
food poisons, namely, by taking into the system large quantities of the
efferent salts, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and
silicon, and these efferent salts will help to carry out of t he system
those poisons, no matter what they may be. They will carry them out
through the lungs and thus the blood will be purified from that condi-
tion and those poisons will be carried out of the blood. Now, this is
a natural way of purifying the blood, by the different salts carrying
impurities out of the blood through the lungs and throwing it out.
The way, as we have said befo~e, to secure the salts is by eating
green vegetables such as spinach, cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce and
other vegetables along those lines; also it may be secured in large
quantities from the vegetable fruits, - cucumbers, tomatoes, sweet
peppers, egg plant, and from melons of all descriptions; also from
squash, pumpkin and such. Among the fruits the richest in the salts is
undoubtedly the olive, that is ripe olives , dried not pickled olives.
Olives that are soaked in brine are of no value, and, in fact, are
detrimental, the same as everything else that has been pickled; also
practically all nuts contain considerable quantities of those salts.
Among tree fruits, the apple , the fig, and the date contain
considerable quantities.
By eating these foods you get the salts into the system so that
those poisons are eliminated in this way.
Now, by adopting a diet of this kind, by drinking considerable
water and by bathing so as to help the system throw off those poisons,
you accomplish all that can be done by naturepathic treatment.
Here we have to introduce the metaphysical treatment. Remember
that for all this type of diseases such as diabetes and everything of
that type which is caused by sugar poison, the treatment is practically
the same. Of course, if it effects different organs, t hose organs must
be strengthened, but in a general way, the treatment is the same. For
this reason we must deal with them coll ectively.
Remember the thing you want to accomplish is the elimination of
this poison from the blood and tissue, so if you are giving treatment
by suggestion, offer your suggestions in this way for this purpose;
direct them to the destruction or disintegration, disorganization, dis-
solution of this sugar poison which is in the blood, so that it may be
dissolved, and then by this process throw it into the ether and have
50
it flow out through the system. If you are practicing suggestive
therapeutics, you want suggestion of that kind, also you want to
suggest that the sugar poison which has accumulated in the tissue, is
disintegrating, is dissolving, throwing it into the ether, and let it
pass out from the sys.tem. Also, stimulate the kidneys, having the
poison go to the kidney and pass out through them as the sewerage
system for this purpose, and strengthen them. If there be any weakness
there, send a current of vitality to the kidneys that they may be able
to perform their work properly.
If you are giving treatment by magnetism, treat the same way,
only send a current of m
agnetism through and through the body of your
patient, not to any particular locality, but let it go from the crown
of the head to the sole of the feet, permeating every tissue, and cell
of his being, and as it goes through thus, you want, by a process of
mental picturing, to dissolve this poison; this inorganic sugar must
be dissolved, disintegrated and thrown into the ether, and then as you
continue to send more and more of this magnetic force through the body,
drive this poison out of the system, out of the surface, and let it
flow out until it comes to the pores of the skin and outside of the body
a considerable distance. Let this Aura stream forth, and this Aura
must be magnetism which you are pouring in.
The same is true in treating by spiritual, psychical, or Divine
Healing. It is the same process, dissolving the poison, throwing it
into the ether and then letting it flow out through the tissue and
through the pores of the skin until it has been expelled from the body.
At the same time you want to act upon the blood; magnetize the
blood, throwing a powerful charge of this current through it. The
blood becomes magnetic.
In this state you want to dissolve the sugar poison, disinte-
grate, throw it into the ether and drive out and even burn it up.
Imagine a fire r aging through and through the blood and the system,
which is burning up and consuming all these poisons until t·hey have
entirely gone and the system is cleared up.
Now, remember in all those methods of treatment you do not want
to take the attitude that it is going to do this Qy and~ but always
you must maintain the attitude that this is now taking place . You see
it is doing this, it is taking place, see it 'l>'ith your mind ' s eye,
watch the process going on just as you want it to go on . Never for one
moment tolerate the idea that it is going to co it by and by, but see
it doing it now, and as you make your suggestions , make them in that
way - that it is doing it now, and always at the end , see the system
entirely cleared of everything of the kind so that the sugar poison is
entirely eliminated from the body.
By processes of treatment of this kind you will be able to reach
the most perfect results, but in no other way is it possible to cure
51
•
c:sease~ =~ ~~: =~ac ter.
-==~~=~=~ ~~e Naturepathic and Metaphysical treatments in
_:: =~ able to eliminate the poisons and thus the disease
::-::.~e ::ecause its cause will have been removed; we will
~~--~ :2£~= GTC~ ~~e poison which expressed itself in the form of dis-
=;~=::~=~= ~ :: be nothing there to cause the disease any longer,
::=:=:-==~:~ . ~ t disappears by itself, but in no other way is it pos-
.:::.::: :: :·.:.:-a a disease of this kind.
:: :s, therefore, utterly useless to attempt to cure a patient
-=:=:::: :·:):1 can induce him to quit eating cooked sugar. You may by
;=-~=~~ force which you may bring to bear, eliminate all the poison
:.= : ~s system or destroy it so that its action is neutralized, so tha t
:~~ :ody is clear of poison. In that ca se your patient will be well,
:~: ~ernemb er if he goes on eating cooked sugar ; in the course of time
~~s body will again be filled with the poison and the same disease
. ::1 come back and that is why the work of healers is found to be not
permanent, the same as that of physicians, because they do not stop
the cause , and it reproduces the disease in time.
Also , you may eliminate enough of the poison so that the system
will be cleared of it, and it will not manifest itself in the form of
that disease again, but in the course of time the poison will increase
and the patient will be sick again.
We must, therefore , understand that it is only by the permanent
elimination of this poison that it is possible for one to be cured of
diseases of this description, therefore, do not let yourself be drawn
into the practice of many physicians of curing symptoms , but know that
the only way by which i t is possible to cure disease is to remove the
cause , and the only cause of all this type is the accumulation in the
system of the poison coming from cooked sugar.
52
'
L E S S 0 N 0 N
C A N C E R
CANCER is caused by the waste from meat; not by protein or any-
thing of that kind, but by the waste which is left from meat . Now the
reason why this is so , is because the waste left by meat is in
particles larger and also traveling in a larger circuit in their revo-
lution than the affinity of the kidney can eliminate. They have a
l arger circuit and consequently the kidneys are unable to eliminate
that waste .
Now, the kidneys are provided by nature for the purpose of
eliminating waste from the particul ar organism that possesses those
kidneys . An animal kidney will eliminate animal waste, but a human
kidney can eliminate only the human waste -the waste that accumulates
t hrough the activities of the human body. Now, unfortunately for meat
eating people, their kidneys are not adapted to the elimination of
animal waste . The vessels are not l arge enough, consequently the animal
waste cannot pass through the kidney and thus be transferred to the
urine, consequently it cannot be eliminated, but remains in the system.
The chemical food value of meat is not taken into consideration
here . Cooked protein does not cause cancer; no kind of cooked food
has such influence; it is solely the animal waste and becaus e the ani-
mal waste cannot be eliminated through the kidneys, it rema ins in the
bl ood and in the tissue. We know this is the cause of it, for a number
of reasons .
In the first place, there has never been knorn a case of cancer
in a nation of vegetaria ns .
Second : there has never been a ca se of cancer in a family of
vegetarians who lived in a country where other people were meat eaters.
In the Third place : an individua l who was himself a vegetarian
has never been known to have cancer, and lastly, the proper diet will
cure cancer, or at least make it much better.
Now, inasmuch as the waste from meat eating is the cause of canc·er,
53
you can readi l y see that cancer cannot be cured by any method a s long as
people continue t o eat meat. It may be t hat the individual cancer can
be cured, but t hat w
aste i s st ill i n t he sys t em and must manifest
itself in some way unt il we get i t out .
Cancer is an effort on the part of Nature to cure this trouble,
to eliminate this poison. As it cannot be el iminated through the
kidneys , neither can i t be elimi nated thr ough the bowels, it must get
out in some other way ; the only way by which t his meat waste can
escape i s in t he form of cancer. If there i s an abr asion on the sur-
f a ce of t he body anywhere it will strongly t end to caus e cancer to
f or m t here . If there is nothing of the kind, it may form anywhere. It
m
ay f or m on the surfa ce of the body, or it m
ay form on some internal
organ, but in every case the formation of the cancer i s an effort on
the part of the system to eliminate the waste that came from meat .
When the cancer is first formed it appears to have at its base,
roots running in, looking like veins, only they are darker, or black,
in fact, and running in. These roots which appear, .are the streams, so
to speak of this waste; that is, it is going forward from different
directions ,and converging in the mass of the cancer. As long as the
cancer continues, however, it enlarges and it does so because as ,it
stays there, this meat waste is continually coming to the front; it ,is
continually drawing to that point and, therefore, the increasing size
of the cancer simply_means that the waste is being taken from the
system. In this respect, it is an advantage, and the eating of a cancer
is always an advantage to the system unless it goes on to the point
where it becomes so large and eats so deeply that it destroys some
physical organ or something of the kind. However, of course, jt
greatly lowers the vitality as the vital energy is necessary to sustain
life and sustain the _ravages of the cancer, and as it continues to in-
crease and destroy the tissue becaus e of this poison accumulating, as
the tissue is being des troyed, it is, therefore, making the building of
new tissue more and more _necessary a s we go on.
Well then, what are we to conclude? We see that the presence of
a cancer indicates a continual separating force, an eating, ~ destruc-
tion of the tissue, simply because the meat waste is destructive. This
poison is such that it will destroy living tissue; it is a putrifying
force and will destroy in the same way that putrid flesh attached to
a living body in time act so as to destroy the living tissue. It,
t heref or e , becomes a destructive, eating s ore; but we must bear in
mi nd that this is the organization of the wa ste when allowed to mani-
fest itself. It is not allowed .to accumulate and manifest ordinarily,
but the poi s on is still in the system.
Now, a number of diseases are the efforts of Nature to eliminate
poison , and i n those efforts the body may be so weakened that life
will be extinguished. The body may be destroyed, in Nature ' s efforts
54
to heal. Cancer is an effort to eliminate meat waste, remember, con-
sequently no permanent cure can be accomplished that does not take
cognizance of this fact and act accordingly. If we leave the meat waste
in the system and continue to feed it by feeding upon meat, we may
cure the cancer, but we leave the cause in the system and the next time
it may appear on a vital organ, so that life will be extinguished much
quicker than it would if the cancer were on the surface of the body.
Many methods have been devised to treat cancer locally. The old
idea was to remove it by an. operation. This, it is true, will remove the
principal part of the cancer, but remember, this is simply a gathering
of the cancerous influence. The small veins back. of it still remain and
they will simply get larger.
To remove a cancer by operation is like removing or filling up a
hole filled with water and allowing the stream to keep running in all
the time.
The next method which was adapted was the X-Ray, which treats
cancer by battering it with the anode and the cathode so that the tissues
dissolve; that is better than using the knife, because we can go much
farther up and get the roots out to a much greater degree; but still this
is simply treating the effect; the cause is left untouched. The Violet
Ray and the use of Radium are still better because they dissolve it
without the bad effects of the X-Ray, that is, they do not leave a hole,
but actually dissolve it; but still those methods a re all merely local,
merely treatments of an effect, leaving the cause intact.
The use of drugs for cancer is the same way. They may cure the
cancer, but leave the cancerous poison in the system.
The only way to permanently cure cancer is by treating this can-
cerous poison, therefore, the rational treatment of cancer is to first
cease eating meat. As long as the patient lives upon a meat diet he can
never be cured of cancer; therefore, the first step is to put him on an
absolutely vegetarian diet, or, at least a meatless diet. Understand,
the use of cheese, butter, milk, eggs, etc., are not detrimental to
cancerous treatment; it is meat that must not be used. Put the patient
on a meatless diet so that no more of this waste will accumulate in the
system. But that is not sufficient to cure. To stop the patient from
accumulating any more meat waste is not going to get rid of what has
already formed. You must get rid.of this in some way, and this can be
very greatly aided by proper dieting. What we want to do is to get as
much of the efferent salts into the system as possible . The efferent
salts are sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, silicon and phos-
phorus. You want to get as much of these salts into the system as pos-
sible, because they will combine with the waste and help to eliminate
it, and they will also carry this waste to the cancer, and thus, by
increasing the cancerous discharge, help to get rid of the waste very
quickly.
55
:!:!e foods which contain these salts to a large degree are the
~:~:s, in fact, green vegetables of every description, and spinach,
.zz::age , cauliflower and kale contain more, perhaps, than any others;
C.:.so there is a good deal in celery. Among the vegetable fruits also,
:·ou will find tomatoes, sweet peppers, egg plant, cucumbers and such
contain those salts. Melons and pumpkins contain considerable, and
e::~ong fruits the apple and the olive. Nuts of all kinds contain a large
percentage of those salts.
Now, remember this: these foods contain those salts in the organic
form when RAW. Whenever any of them are cooked this salt is disorganized,
becomes inorganic and from that time it is unable to perform this func-
tion of eliminating the poison from the system. It is no longer a living
force , but becomes a chemical deposit in the system.
Organic salt, therefore, does not injure the system, does not
lead,to old age, etc., but inorganic salt always does. So the vegetables,
fruits, etc., must be used in the raw state by every one who would at-
tain the best results along those lines .
One other point _you must bear in mind is that the pickling of foods
destroys these salts, destroys the form of organization, tears it to
pieces, and thus its effectiveness is removed.
Now, when you begin to give a diet of this kind to your patient,
you will find the cancer will get much worse, get larger, it will break
and begin to run, it will seem to get into a terrible state . This is just
what you want to take place. It gets that way simply because there is
three or four times the usual quantity of meat waste that has been dis-
charged there, consequently it breaks and runs. When it sloughs off that
way, you are getting rid of that waste.
Do not get the idea so many people do, that these foods are not
good for cancer, or make the cancer worse. That is the way we cure cancer,
by discharging the poison.
However, the cancer may be so far advanced that this kind of
treatment will not save the life of the patient . It is quite often the
case that you must get rid of the poison in some other way, to keep it
from destroying the life of the patient, but this is the way in which
cancer must be cured, by ELIMINATING THE MEAT WASTE from the system.
Now, at the time you are treating your patient by this method of
diet, you should also employ metaphysical methods of healing to work
in conjunction with the treatment. By working in conjunction with it, we
mean apply it in such a way as to do the same work as this dietary regime
is, namely, carry the meat waste out of the system.
In the first place, you may employ suggestion along this line, for
the carrying out of that meat waste, and carrying it out through the
cancer, making that the avenue. Make suggestions so as to cause the mind
of the patient to bring out this meat waste, bring it to the surface
ther e and elimina te it.
56
Also in giving Healing Treatments , either Magnetic or any of the
higher forms, when you have permeated the patient with the magnetism,
the proper thing to do is to bring a current of magnetism through the body
and out through this cancer, at the same time picturing the meat waste
being separated from the system and in a soluble state, so to speak, in
this magnetic force which you have caused to permeate the body of your
patient. Draw it out to the surface and carry it out. Let this current of
magnetic force flowing from the body, stream out through the cancer ,
carrying away this waste product.
Also, while treating your patient, you must in this magnetic way
disorganize these particles of meat waste; break them up into smaller
fragments or better still , dissolve them into the ether , so that instead
of being solid matter, they become etheric . Now , in this etheric state ,
cause this waste to flow out through the tissue , which will be quite
easy. Then with your magnet ism, make it flow out through the surface,
out through the cancer until it has left the body.
Also, you can drive it out through the pores of the skin through
the entire being and with each treatment cause it to be driven out this
way, through this cancerous opening , so that it will entirely disappear
and be dissipated from the system. Next, remember , that by breaking it
up into small fragments you make -it possible for the kidneys to e limi-
nate the poison which they could not do before , and as the poison is driven
out through the cancer in this etheric form, there is , in consequence ,
much less to be eliminated by the kidneys.
Also, do not lose sight of the fact that you must get the cancer-
ous ether out of the etheric double as well as getting the solid waste
out of the gross body.
Next, bear in mind that you must not neglect the local treatment
of the cancer as well as the system, and, by the local treatment, we mean
that this cancerous tissue which is eating away and poisoning the sound
tissue, must also be permeated with magnet ism. This tendency must be
killed and it must be dissolved into an ether and thrown from the system.
I t must be entirely removed and pass out , so that it gradually dissolves
and passes out into the Aura around the body.
You must kill this cancerous state and remove this tissue in this
magnetic way, or by suggest ion or by any method of that kind, at the same
time you are eliminating it from the system . Do not wait until you have
a ll the waste out of the system before you commence on the cancer. If you
do, it may have gone too far , may have destroyed some vi tal part of the
body. Treat them together, but whatsoever you do, do not try to heal
up the cancer. Simply eliminate the meat waste from the system and a l so
this cancerous tissue . Concentrate a strong current of vitality so as to
intensely vital ize that part of the body, at the same time giving the
food which will help to throw off this cancerous poison.
Now remember, if a cancer is on an internal organ you have to use
57
the same method of treatment as you would otherwise, only, of course,
you have to visualize upon the organ so t hat in your mind's eye you can
see the cancer. Concentrate your attention and then disorganize the
cancer by dissolving the ether and dissolving the cancer itself and
throwing it into the form of an ether and letting it saturate the system,
so it is broken up, disorganized; then cause this ether to flow out,
eliminating it from the system. Make it pass out through the pores of
the skin, through the entire body, until it leaves . You must eliminate
the poison from the system as you would in the ordinary case of poison,
but first you must cause the cancer to disorganize and throw its force
out through the system. You must also be sure to build up the tissue
of this vital organ. You must vitalize it to a much higher degree than
it would otherwise be so as to prevent any disorganizing effect and any
eating action of the organ itself .
It is in this way, and in this way only, that internal cancer can be
cured.
Now, notice the most effective methods for cancer have been, -
speaking of the physical, - the use of the X-Ray, the Violet Ray and
Radium, - in other words, the application of electro- magnetic force for
the purpose of disorganizing the disea sed tissue . That is found to be the
most effective method of treatment known to the medical profession. By
the use of magnetism we are really employing that in a much higher sense
than the physician is able to do. We are concentrating the same force
on a higher plane- vital magnetism- to break up and dissolve this
diseased tissue and eliminate it from the sys tem.
If you are treating a case of surface cancer, it may be found ad-
visable to place the left -the magnetic hand - that is to say if a man be
practicing healing, t he right if a woman be practicing - but place the
negative hand over the cancer and t hen in your treatments , while you are
driving out the poisonous forces, with the negative hand draw them out,
and be very careful in doing this. If you make the slightest slip you
are liable to take the cancer yourself, because you are really drawing
those forces out into your negative hand , therefore , after you have given
a trea tment, be sure to concentrate your force very positively and make
it flow out. In other words, make this the pos itive hand for a few
cinutes; then shake it with all the force you have, as you would shake
water off the ends of your fingers, shaking it fifty or a hundred times,
·.rigorously, at the same time, concentrating, visualizing upon a current
o~ cagnetism running out through the ends of your fingers. Be careful
~o be very positive while you are doing this, without questioning your
a~ility to eliminate this poisonous ether; otherwise you will be almost
s:.:..:-e to contract a case of cancer.
Also, while treating a patient for cancer do not let any one else
ste7 in the room; there is danger of giving it to others; also it is best
:Jot to treat another patient for fifteen or twenty minutes after treat-
58
ing a cancerous patient because there is danger of the evil magnetism
effecting the next patient, and the room should be fumigated with incense
of a very powerful character, immediately after a treatment of that
kind, so as to destroy the poison which is driven out of the system.
If t hese methods are followed, any case of cancer in the world
can be cured in three months, and generally speaking, if not too far
gone , a month is sufficient to accomplish a cure, but no method will
accomplish permanent results unless the person forever abandons the use
of meat. You must bear in mind, however, that abandoning the use of meat
does not get rid of the waste already in the system ; therefore, you must
use methods of t he kind described; but by a combination of vegetarianism
and a diet of raw food consisting principally of green vegetables, also
the employment of suggest ion and magnetism in the treatment , in this way,
you will accomplish a cure in every instance .
One thing we must call your at tention to : Do not follow the prac-
tice of placing the positive hand over the cancer and directing the
force inward; t hat method is simply following the methods of operation
which are employed by all the physicians . What you want to do is not to
drive the force into the cancer, but draw the poison out of the system
through the cancer, as the cancer is the effort of Nature to eliminate
this waste from c eat, and we should co-operate with this effort , work
in conjunction with it and by doing this we will be able to hasten the
cure.
59
L E S S 0 N 0 N
0 V E R F E E D I N G
One of the greatest causes of disease is Over Eating ;- there are
quite a number of diseases which grow out of the gorging of the system
by over feeding and the consequent accumulation of effete matter in the
system. This type is not due to the eating of any kind of food partic-
ularly, which is detrimental in itself, but it is more owing to an im-
proper quantity of food than to improper quality.
When we eat, the system takes up as much of the food as it is able
to assimilate. This is employed in tissue building and nourishing the
system, all that is left from this quantity that is assimilated, remains
in the system in the form of waste and must be eliminated in some wa y,
or, if not eliminated, must continue to accumulate .
Diarrhoea, for instance , is nothing in the worl d but an effort on
the part of Nature to eliminate that accumulated waste material from
the bowels . The bowels become gorged, as it were, filled with the effete
matter and then Nature goes to work to get rid of it; in the ordinary
form it cannot be evacuated with sufficient rapidity. The result is,
Nature causes the waste material to go through a change which partially
decomposes it, throwing it into a watery state which will not be re-
tained by reason of the tenacity of the bowels, and the result is it flows
out, and in this watery discharge, eight or ten times as much of the waste
caterial is evacuated from the bowels as would be possible under ordinary
cir cumstances.
Di a rrhoea, bear in mind , is not an evil, but it is an effort on the
;;a;-:. of Nature to clean out the bowels . Then it should never be checked;
:::::-a is no more pernicious practice than the effort to check a diar-
=-==cea: if it were not for the diarrhoea, you would die, - it is the
= ~~ -=-: 0::1 the part of Nature to eliminate this accumulated effete matter.
::: ::.:e e:!.arrboea alone; quit eating. Go on a Fast just as long as the
C.:!.G!':-:.:~ea !.asts, because the diarrhoea is caused by the accumulation of
~oo =~~= aste in the system, and you should abstain from food; drink
60
plenty of water to help clean out the system. Do not undertake to stop
or suppress any of these out of the ordinary activities of the system,
but , on the contrary, co- operate with Nature in a ccomplishing the puri-
fication of the system along this line , and as you co- operate with Nature ,
you will find that Nature will accomplish her purposes and thus relieve
the system from this accumulated waste .
Now, it may be, in certain cases, necessary to r egul ate , to a cer -
tain extent, this evacuation; you may need a means for partia lly check-
ing it ; because there will be so much of this waste substance ac-
cumulated in the system and in the bowels tha t it will take so long to
clean it out , and the discharge will be so violent that in certain in-
stances there is danger of ulceration of the bowels. In this case , it
is of the greatest importance that we clean out the bowels gradually.
We should fast and at the same time , we may check it a little if it is
going too far , but not with the effort of suppression.
Flux is another one of the diseases which grow out of this prac-
tice of gorging the bowels . Flux is simply a chronic case of diarrhoea.
It is so because there has been an accumula tion in the bowels and not
only there, but throughout the system, and as the bowels a re evacuated ,
the waste material throughout the system is carried back into the
bowels and thus this drain is kept up.
Another thing that we must bear in mind, however, is that in case
of flux, the system becomes so derang ed by reason of the continuous
accumula tion of effete matter and the necessity of continually dissolv-
ing and liquifying this waste, that it may be carried away, that it
gets to dissolving pure food in this way also , so that, which is not
naturally waste goes through this chemical change and thus is eliminated
in the form of waste. In this way the system is robbed of its proper
nourishment because it is not simply the waste, but also the proper
and natura l nourishment which is thrown off in this liquid state a nd
carried away.
While in the case of flux we cannot employ the f asting treatment ,
because it will take so long to train Nature back into this , its proper
channel a nd way, t hat we must practice abstinence rather than fasting ;
that is, we must adopt a diet which will not accumulate, which will give
only the proper nourishment. We should a l so in this case , avoid those
foods which will cause fermentation , and that ceans all kinds of a cid
foods ; we must use only such foods as will go i~to ~he building of
tissues without any f ermentative waste . Nex"t. , '-"Se those foods which
will help to eliminate waste, and those are g!'ee:l herbs , etc .
As we have shown in the previous .:.essons, Te :::::~st also use foods
which will prevent any ir!':.tat:.o:1 . :!:a :. =eans that we must not use any
salt or animal f a t in the :'ooc, a ::C. v:e =ust have everything sufficiently
fine. What we mean by fine is, coarse cereals , and a nything of that kind
which would ha ve a tendency to irritate the bo•.vels , must be avoided.
61
::: o::-ce:- :.o e·..:oid these diseases, therefore, (flux, we mean, and diar-
:-.:::sa e ::::st C.elp nature to eliminate the waste properly, and at the
sa=e : :.=e ::ot permit the system to throw into this watery state, good ,
;;::-:;;::- ::.::;~ishoent . Be sure to cut down the diet to about the limit which
:!:: s~·s :.a= can subsist upon. Then give treatments metaphysically for
: ::e :-::.:.x c ondition ; treat the bowels and the system generally ; give them
s :::-:::g:.:-:, pour a flood of vitality in, so that they will be able to per-
:»::-= :.::e ir func tions in the proper manner, without this improper dis-
so: :.::.i on, so to speak, of the food .
Another disease of the same type which is due to the same cause,
a::.c i s an aggravated form of diarrhoea, is cholera morbus, and must
::e t reated in the same way. Cholera itself, is due largely to the same
co:1dit ion; not that we deny there being a cholera germ, not that we
should say that cholera is not a contageous disease, but we say that
t he cholera germ can operate only in the system which is poisoned by
the accumulation of effete matter. I f a person ' s body is entirely clear
of effete matter , it is perfectly safe for him to nurse cholera patients
without any fear of taking the contagion. It is only because the bowels
become clogged with effete matter ; the blood is charged with it ; the
whole system, the very tissue is permeated with it ; it is for this reason
and this reason only that cholera is a menace to life and health.
Let us see now, what the treatment for cholera should be . First of
all, we must get rid of this accumul ated effete matter; that is the
first thing to do, therefore, we must keep the bowels open and get rid
of this as fast as possible; also place the patient on such a diet as
v.rill help him to get rid of the effete matter . Pay no attention to the
germs. Purify the system. At the same time , remember that cholera is due
to an intensely electrical condition of t he s ys tem, as we will show in a
future lesson . It is an electrical condition of the system which pro-
duces cholera, but this loa ding of the bowels and the system with effete
ma tter is what provides a basis for cholera. It is what enables this
electrical condition to manifest . Now, the thing you want to do is, of
course, to establish a magnetic condition of the system and this mag-
netic condition will throw off the accumulated effete matter. So, in
treating metaphysically, you want to make the body magnetic rather
than electrical ; that is to say, if you are a man, you want to treat the
per s on with your left hand, and the man should treat the patient with the
lef t ha nd because the magnetic force is in the right hemisphere of the
br ain a nd goes through the left hand, and - well in fact in either case
:.hat is true , the woman the same as the man . The left hand is the magnetic
;:a:!c . However, magnetic healing treatments given by the woman will be
:fc:..:....
,d to be more effective in cases of cholera than when given by a man.
:::;-:·se:::.ery is a lso due to the same cause.
:o:1stipa tion is largely due to the accumulation of effete matter
:.n t ::e sys ~ eo so that the bowels become charged and then being full,
62
they will not admit of the proper activity. The motion of the bowels
which helps the elimination, which moves the contents along and helps
in the elimination, also the peristaltic action of the bowels is not
permitted because of the bowels being fully swollen out so to speak,
therefore, constipation is the result, and in curing constipation you
have got to get rid of this accumulated waste and prevent its future
accumulation. In order to prevent constipation you must have something
to help the peristaltic action of the bowels . The best thing for that
purpose is green vegetables used in the raw form, as they do not become
so packed, and by r eason of the slight irritation to the walls of the
bowels, will permit the peristaltic action . If you can ' t get these, or
if you do not want to use this method, if you do not want to eat vege-
tables, then cerea ls will help this perista ltic action ; and cereals for
this purpose should be coarsely ground and they should also contain bran
as this will greatly assist in the peristaltic elimination. Further, the
use of nuts may be found beneficial; if they are used for this purpose,
they should never be blanched, but the outer skin should be allowed to
remain because of this. Fruit should not be pared, but the parings should
be eaten with the fruit, as it will help this same peristaltic action.
The greatest cause of constipation, probably, is the use of white
bread. The starch being cooked, is eaten and forms a pasty substance
which seals up the bowels. This may be greatly relieved by the use of
coarse ground cereal breads, etc . But also , bear in mind that for
constipation a great deal of water must be drunk . Under certain condi-
tions, the use of the method of flushing the colon may be found advan-
tageous, but ordinarily we do not rec ommend it. It is unnatural, and it
should be borne in mind that any unnatural method of trea tment is, gen-
erally speaking, disadvantageous. Liquids should enter the system
through the mouth and not otherwise. Consequently, ordinarily speaking,
we do not f avor it . The drinking of an abundance of water will answer
the purpose in a much more natural way as it has to go somewhere - it
has to escape. Of course, a great deal will pass through the kidneys,
but it is objected that the kidneys are overworked, tha t the kidneys
therefore , will be worked more than normal; that is a ll right; the work
of the kidneys carries away a good deal of waste through the kidneys.
However, in constipat ion you will give those treatments largely
for the effect of loosening the bowels, of removing the resistance, so
that they may be eva cuated, also to increase the peristaltic action.
One of the disea ses also caused by this kind of debauchery is
fever . There is not a fever in the world tha t is not due solely to the
accumulation of effete oa tter in the system; the system cannot get rid
of it, it cannot wash it all away, hence there is a lot of effete matter,
accumulated in the tissues which we cannot get rid of, the bowels will
not eliminate it, it cannot be gotten rid of otherwise ; hence what does
the system do? Why, it simply buil ds a fire to burn up the waste just as
63
we, in ordinary life, kindle fires and burn up the waste a r ound the
house , when we get so much we cannot get rid of it in any other way. The
feve r is a fire which nature has kindled for the purpose of burning up
this waste material , therefore, a fever is ::1ot an evil, but is an effort
on the part of nature to accomplish a cure . T~at . the!l are we to do? Why ,
obviousl y, we should quit eating while the :'e·:e:- lasts ; quit filling
up the system with effete matter and, of co:.::se, :::- -:~e fever lasts long
enough it may be necessary for us to eat a lit::e so=e:::::.:J.g, o·.1:. just
enough to sustain life and let the fever go o::: . :e: :.: t·2"::1 up a::~d con-
sume this waste material. Of course, if it gets :.oo :::.g:~. t!:e:J it is
better to lower it, to reduce the fever, but l et .:.: go a.:-:ead until it con-
sumes the waste material.
Typhoid fever never would exist were ::. ::10:. =-~=- :::e :'act. that the
patient is filled up from head to feet with ef!'e:e =a;;:s:-, i.s entirely
poisoned with it, which this fever has to c o:ts~e a=c ··:::.en would re-
quire quite a length of time to consume it . It · c:.:.:.c.. :a~e so lo::1g to
consume this waste material and that is reall:
~ !::"" :.:. :a.'.{es so long for
a case of typhoid fever .
Now, the old conception of the doctors t!:a: t:;?!;.o!c !'ever must
not be broken up , but a llowed to run its course, was p:-o-;;en sound ;
that doctrine is sound ; the fever is to be allowec :.o go on until it has
a ccomplished the burning up of all this effete cat:.e:-; a::d the modern
method of curing a case of typhoid fever in a fe'i' da:;s are wrong. They
may do it, that is true, but remember, they ba·;e :e!':. -.!le poison in the
system unless they go to work and get rid of t!:a: po:.so:J first ; then they
can cure it.
Now, of course , if they get rid of it, tne~ t~e very cause of the
fever has been removed, the fire goes out for the -.rant of fuel. It is
true , however, that we can cure typhoid fever in a short time by meta-
physical healing methods. The way we do this is to dissolve this effete
matter into an ether and drive it out of the system, so that the work
which it would require nature two months, perhaps, to accomplish even
by the use of high fevers, is by this method , accomplished in a few days ,
or, if you have sufficient hea ling power, in a few hours, or a f ew
cinutes . The only need of a fever is to get the effete matter out of the
system and if you can dissolve that in the ether and drive the thing
e::ltirely out, you could cure the fever in a very short time. Now, the
:.cea which the old doctors had, that a person with a fever must avoid
::·;:e::- eating, was also perfectly sound . They say, for instance, tha t
:::e ::.~se should make up her mind what the sick person ought to eat and
: ~e:: g:·:e him just about half as much as she thinks the sick person
o~g:::: :.c !:ave . And thus , you see there is very little feeding done, and
:!:e s::·s:e= has a chance to get rid of this effete matter; it is a sub-
co::sc:.~·.:s ::-ecognition, apparently, of the truth that it is effete
matt.e::- T:::.c!: causes the disease .
64
We a re further informed t hat it is very import ant to regulate the
bowels, and we notice that in a case of typhoid fever, diarrhoea i s a l-
ways found accompanying the fever. The reason why this is so is the
f a ct that the fever i s caused by the accumul ation of effete matter , and
the diarrhoea helps t o eliminate this, but in a case of typhoid fever,
there is so much being disgorged through the bowels, not simply what is
there, but there i s a lot of this poison being poured into the bowels
and it is eventually disgorged. There is danger, sometimes of the
bowels ulcerating or bursting ; in this case, therefore, we must con-
tinue to get all of the effete matter out; and a lso go about it slowly;
don't let the bowels disgorge too much ; keep them under control; how-
ever, a llow the accumulated effete matter to escape, as this i s the only
way by which the trouble may be cured .
Now, all diseases which are accompanied by fevers are due in
whole, or in part, to the accumulation of effete matter in the system
and the fever is an effort on the part of nature to get rid of that
trouble . Consequently, the way to treat diseases accompanied by fever
is to get rid of effete matter. Any way that will accomplish this , any
method, r ather , that will lead to the r ealizat ion of this end , will cure
the disease. No matter what it may be, it will be found benefic ial ,
and this was the foundation of the old idea that the way to cure these
troubles was first to give the patient a cathartic; the idea was to
put him on a purgative treatment until the bowels were purged out and
then go to work and t reat the fever afterwa rds. While this was right in
theory, the practice was not very good; it was decidedly a harsh method
to get rid of effete matter i n the tissues , by giving a person black
pills and calomel, as their action was s i mply to gather up the liquids
of the system and thus, by r obbing the system of its liquids, to flush
the colon so to speak; that is really the method the cathartic employs,
and of course, the method is a cure because wha t you really want is to
e liminate the poison from the cells , to clean out the tissues and pour
it into the bowels and , of course, you have got to have the bowels elim-
inate it, but you need not be in any wa y uneasy but what the bowels will
evacuate the poison if it comes into them.
The presence of diarrhoea is a lways found to accompany fevers
when the fever bas reached a very great height .
Another thing which you must bear in mind in treating a disease
of this type, is the fact that bilious troubles should be left alone.
There is no greater fallacy than that you have to 'i"ork the bile off.
Whenever you get too much bile in the system it will work itself off .
There is one type of diarrhoea known aoong physicians which is
called bilious diarrhoea, which is caused by accumulation of bile until
it causes a diarrhoea to set in. Now, if you let that diarrhoea alone and
don 't try t o check it, why it w::11 run on until all the effete matter is
driven from the system. After the bowels are cleaned out , then for two
65
c:- :cree days, the patient will pass pure bile . We know this by our own
:~e:=-ience . We have passed more than two quarts of pure and unadulterated
::.: e without any trace of anything else, thus we know this is true.
When you get bilious, therefore, you have really accumulated the
::etural purgative of the system; bile is the purgative which nature has
p1'ovided , and when you get sufficiently bilious, it is truly impossible
to retain any effete matter in your system, or, at least in the bowels;
they will be cleaned out; that is rea lly the natural method of flush-
ing the colon. It is the bile that carries it all out and when everything
else is carried out, then the bile will pass away. There is nothing in
the world so beneficial for cleaning out the system as a real, first
class , full grown case of bilious diarrhoea. It will do more good than
a~l the doctors in Chicago can do for eliminating the effete matter from
the system. In many instances this condition is due to accumulation of
fecal matter in the bowels, though, of course, generally speaking, the
difficulty is due to starch poison, but sometimes the difficulty is due
to the accumulation of fecal matter in the system. If so , fasting will be
found to cure it. Whenever fasting cures one, it is because that condi-
tion is due to the accumulation of fecal matter in the bowels, and by
fasting, we thus cease to feed this condition any further, and thus when
we have eliminated the effete matter which was there to begin with, we
find that we are a ll right, the system perfectly cleaned up.
One other point which we must touch on here, though it does not
naturally come under this head, is the nefarious iniquity of using salt.
There is nothing in the world so detrimental to the health as salt, that
is, inorganic salt, which we buy in the stores, such as is employed in
the ordinary seasoning of food. Inorganic salt is in its very nature a
disrupting force . We take cucumbers, or other food, for that matter, and
soak them in brine. Why do we pickle them? To keep them from decaying.
Now , the natural course would be for these green vegetables to disin-
tegrate in time after reaching a certain point, and then they will decay.
We employ salt because it will separate the organic salt in the fruits
or vegetables, and by so doing, will prevent the natural decay. As this
salt becomes inorganic, it has the tendency when taken into the system,
of disrupting all the organic arrangement of the body. There is noth-
ing in the world so undesirable as the use of mineral salt . In every way,
it not only has this effect on the foods, but when we take it into the sys-
:e::::J, it ac ts upon our food there and upon the salts which are accumulated
.:..:: :he system ; it prevents the elimination of carbon dioxide and the other
;;o:.so:Js of the system, and the eliminants of the system are the organic
sa:: s of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus and silicon.
3:;- -.:::e ~se of inorganic salt these organic salts are disorganized, be-
~==:.::; :.!!organic and cease to eliminate, and on the contrary, they be-
g:..:: : c se;>arate and break up and they present the tissue building , so that
:::e:-e !.s ::o:hing in the world so detrimental to the health as the use of
66
inorganic salt : in fact, if a single grain of salt is taken with an en-
tire meal, it has that effect to the extent that you use it. Of course,
it is better to use a small quantity of salt than to use a large quantity,
nevertheless the use of salt in any sense, is decidedly undesirable .
You ask me, then, what are we to do? Is it not a fact that we have
to have salt : that the system requires it? Yes, but it is organic salt
which the system requires, and this is found in vegetables and not
in mineral form. Man never was intended to eat anything that was taken
out of the ground. His real diet is composed of those plants which are
adapted to his use, never animal or mineral food . He can use animal
food , however, much better than he can mineral food . Don ' t employ min-
erals in your food; that mineral is the natural food of plants, and plants
are the natural food of animals ; therefore, get all your salt out of
plants.
Now, if you eat cereals and nuts and certain vegetables and get
salt in this way, it is always organic, provided you don't make it in-
orga nic by cooking. It will also be noticed that the diet of uncooked
food does not require the salt that a diet of cooked food requires .
When you acquire the habit of eating uncooked food , particularly if
you eat cereals, fruits, and nuts, you will not want salt. Salt is
mainly required in eating meat and things that grow under ground. The
appetite for salt comes in this way and also when we are eating cooked
food .
Now, it may occur to you that animals require salt ; that they have
to be salted at regular intervals or they get in a bad state of health.
This is true, but remember that the domestic animal is given only such
food as his keepers will provide him, to a great extent; he cannot
have the proper kind of food. The result is he does not get the salt
in its organic form, that he requires , and the substitute for this is
provided in the mineral salt. Also the animal eats a l arge quantity of
food, his food is r aw and consequently the salt that he eats does not
do so much harm. Remember, the animal will perhaps have salt once or
twice a week; he will eat a handful of salt or less; horses and cows
will eat less than a handful of salt once a week, or less . At the same
time , they will eat fifty ears of corn in a day, and the result is the
effect of the salt in this amount of food is not so bad because there is
so much food that it is not disorganized ; also beca:1se of the plainness
and simplicity of their diet , it does not r~7e ~~is bad effect . Further-
more, the animal is much more coarsely organ~~ed and does not suffer so
much from those effects and he does r.o~ ge~ i.::l !:is food the organic salt .
The wild animal also at certain tioes wants to go to a salt lick and get
sal t, because in the wild state his d:et l a rgely consists of grass,
bushes, etc . , and he does !lot :::a·;e a::1 opportunity to select the fine,
choice diet that the can !:as. 3ut for the man who is able to get the
proper diet, diet containing salt in the organic form, he should never
67
t ::.·..:.=~ :.:: ::-~2::: =~ =:.::er a l salt in any way. Mineral substances a re the
.:..z·_:::-~: ~:::. ~ : :- ; :G.!lt.s ; vegetable substances the natural food for man.
68
L E S S 0 N 0 N
S U G G E S T I 0 N
The various methods of Suggestion may be classified as
FIRST: Auto Suggestion; that is to say when suggestion is offered
in your own mind.
SECOND: Suggestion when offered by another.
THIRD: Telepathic Suggestion.
FOURTH: Larvated Suggestion.
FIFTH: Hypnotic Suggestion.
All the various suggestive activities fall under one of these
five classifications.
Now, the purpose of Suggestion is to impart to the mind or to form
in the mind a picture of the desired condition, inasmuch as the picture
:formed in mind has the effect of setting up the rate of vibration
corresponding to the condition pictured, resulting in a changed
vibratory state, expressing itself in an altered condition of the
state of the body with reference to health, etc. Auto-Suggestion
is employed to enable us to form the desired mental picture. It may be
presented in the form either of affirmation or denial. Denials are
never desirable, however. When you realize that the purpose of sugges-
tion is to form the picture of a condition, you will then realize that
denying a condition is just as efficacious for forming a picture of
that condition, as it is to affirm it. When you deny , in your sugges-
tion, a fever, you are making a picture of fever . Now, it does not
make any difference what you think about tbat picture, when the picture
i s formed, it sets up the vibration correspond:ng to it, and these
states of vibration ~~st express the~selves i~ a condition naturally
appertaining to thee.
Auto- Suggestion, t~e~. :s a~y aspec~ of the oind which naturally
leads unto the establish=e=t o~ a co~responding picture . It is a means
unto the formation of mental p::ctures, so that, as a matter of fact,
a ll our lives are practically put in, in giving ourselves auto-
69
~---=_g::: _ :::.: , :.;:e term "AUTO- SUGGESTION11
is usually made use of in
~ == =~==== : ~ s ~a tements of thought, definitely formulated mental atti-
:-~ =~ . =
=
=t ee express purpose of producing these mental pictures and
~= ~ =~~~g certain conclusions.
In making Auto-Suggestions for the sake of health, we should
never try to cure disease. We should, on the contrary, affirm health;
make the picture of the condition which we want, not of something which
we want to get rid of. In this respect Christian Science is perfectly
logical when it denies the reality of disease; that is to say, in
affirming that all is good, affirming perfect health and strength and
everything of that kind, its members are following along the line of
true philosophy, but where they are wrong is in denying certain
diseases in order to help them form the picture of the absence of
disease. They should follow their methods to their logical result and
simply affirm what they want, treating the undesirable condition with
silent contempt. If they would do this, they would find themselves
able to cure practically all diseases much more easily than they do at
the present time and without the disastrous results which sometimes
follow the practice of denial. Denial, then is never to be resorted to.
Affirmations may, at all times be practiced. Affirmations are neces-
sary, and part of the law of Auto-Suggestion.
It is true Auto-Suggestion is sometimes practiced without the
positive affirmations which a re very often used. We may go to work and
suggest in mind certain conditions taking place, certain processes in
the body or anything of that kind, when we do not throw anything like
the force and vim into them that you do in making positive affirmation.
On the other hand, in making suggestions, never suggest that you
are going to do so and so; that you are going to get well; never
make suggestions to take place in the future, because the object of
Auto-Suggestion is to form the mental picture; therefore, always form
your suggestions in the present tense. Form it in such a way as to
induce the picture of a present activity, as health right now, so as
to govern the vibration and produce this state of health. Consequently,
the injunction in the Scriptures that when you pray for anything,
believe that you receive it and you shall receive it, is found to be
in strict accordance with psychological law.
Now, Auto-Suggestion is reallY the key to all the other methods
of suggestion. All other methods are simply so many means unto the end
o~ establishing the suggestion in the patient's mind. In the Auto-
S~ggestion, the suggestive impulse originates within the patient. When
s~ggest ion is practiced from the outside, that is, when the physician
~ s g~v i ng the suggestion, he gives it in such a way as to cause the
;e :~ ent t o repeat it to himself so that the mental picture is pro-
e~~ec ~n hi s mind. Now, if the patient does not repeat the suggestion
to ~self, it is absolutely valueless. It can influence him only to
70
the degree that he forms in mind the picture which is suggested by the
word of the physician, and to do that he must repeat the suggestion to
himself. In other words, the patient must believe what you say in
order for it to have any influence on him.
The entire medical practice is made up, as it were, of expedients
to produce these pictures in the mind of the patient. All the tactics
which are resorted to by the physician to establish confidence on the
part of the patient, to make him rely upon the skill of the physician
to accomplish his cure - a ll of these methods are so many tricks to
cause the patient to suggest the cure to himself; in other words, to
produce the same effect as a strong Auto-Suggestion would produce.
Go where you will, you see this activity in continuous opera-
tion, therefore, the physician who would practice suggestion must
always manifest confidence himself, because there is nothing so con-
tagious as confidence. If the physician has within himself a doubt of
his ability to cure his patient, a doubt of the efficacy of any
remedial agent which he may apply, this doubt will make it impossible
for the agent to have the desired effect, because it will be impressed
upon the mind of the patient so that he will not have the requisite
degree of confidence, and therefore, will not repeat the suggestion to
himself; will not be cured.
What is LARVATED SUGGESTION? The masked suggestion is practiced
whenever a physical agent is administered for the purpose of inspiring
confidence in the patient; that is to say, a drug is given not with
the expectation of curing the patient with the drug, but simply to
establish confidence so that the patient will expect to be cured. He
will be in an attitude of expectation and this attitude of expectation
will cause him to form the picture of health, will establish the
vibration which will heal his body. The use of ninety per cent of the
remedial agents, so-called, of the intelligent physician, is simply
for the purpose of masking a suggestion. In a case of this kind it is
very often highly beneficial to make the patient believe he is taking
a very strong agent of some kind; that the medicine is very powerful
and you do not know whether he will live through it or not; it is very
likely to kill him if it doesn't have exactly the right effect, and
remember the patient is expecting relief from the drug and conse-
quently he must think he is getting a very powerful one . A case in
point is that of a physician in the South whom we knew personally. He
has accomplished a number of very wonderful cures . He has built up a
great reputation for successful practice and he says himself , that the
cases that have made him , were cases where be did not know what was
the matter with his patients and he would l eave a bottle of water with
the patient, to be measured out and taken and then await developments,
and the water has cured the patient and it has built up this physi-
cian's reputation. There was a man whose wife had been troubled with
71
sciat~ ca = c~ ~uite a while. This doctor had treated her, had given her
eve::-:.·:.:.:.=; :!:.e books prescribed, but even though relieved, it would,
~~ e ~= ~: :i=e , come back. The husband finally came to the doctor and
sa~~. -~ ~- or, my wife is down with that sciat ica again and suffering
: = ~~~ ::7 . C
an't you do something?" The doctor opened a drawer in his
::: ~k. sc.:·.!.!lg, "Well, I hate like thunder to give her these tablets,
:~ : : b~e ss I will have to," and he took out three tablets, gave them
: : :!:.e =an and said, "You take these home; give one to your wife as
s: :~ a s you get there. Tell her I said she would get better right
s:::-a i ght , but if in half an hour she is not relieved, give the second
o=e end if that doesn't relieve her in half an hour, give the third,
a2c I know the third will cure her . But you tell her I said she
~o~ld get better right straight after she takes the first." Well the
can went home and said to his wife, "Mary, Doc sent you some medicine
now that will cure. He said for you to t ake this tablet and you would
get better right away." She took it, suffering terribly. In half an
hour she got up, put on her clothes and got supper, and for two years
after that never had a touch of sciatica. Her husband was talking to
the doctor and said, "Doc, that must have been terribly strong
medicine you gave my wife. She has never had a touch of sciatica again.
What was it Doc?" and he replied, "Loaf Sugar."
This is a fair sample of the way many physicians practice,
although there are not many who have the courage to carry it out the
way this doctor did ; nevertheless, it will accomplish wonderful re-
sults. So many cures have been accomplished by physicians who are
simply giving remedies as agents for Larvated Suggestion. When an
agent is given that way, the patient believing it to be a s trong
medicine and having confidence in the use of drugs, it will naturally
produce a more powerful picture in mind than could possibly be pro-
duced in such persons with any other kind of suggestion. For this
reason, it is often the most beneficial method that could be resorted
to . People should never be given drugs, but it i s very often quite
beneficial to give them loaf sugar or starch or flour, or cold water
and tell them it is medicine . If they think it is a dr ug it may have a
ouch more beneficial effect than if they knew what it really is. In
the pra ctice of Larvated Suggestion , therefore, we simply use an agent
as a means of est ablishing an Auto- Suggestion in the patient's mind .
In Telepathic Suggestion, we do not speak. It is not something
a say or something we do that communicates the suggestion, but it
:s : !:.e t hought . The thought is projected from the mind of the phys ician
::~=-=~~ t.o t he mind of the patient . This may be either conscious or
-=::=scious . The most of suggestion of this kind is unconscious. If
- :.=~= : s a cegree of sympathy between the physician and t he patient ,
:!:.;:-: ~ s ~ge r of all the physician ' s thoughts being communicat ed to
~ .:.=~~· ~==: as soon as t hey enter his mind; consequently if a phy-
72
sician gives up hope of curing his patient he should immediately drop
the case. No physician should try to cure a case that he does not
believe he can cure, because every time he visits the patient he is
projecting the pois onous thought . He is suggesting unconsciously to
himself, death, and is consequently building up a picture of death
which will, in time, establish the death dealing rhythm and, of course,
the patient is mur dered by the skepticism of his doctor. But aga in,
we have silent suggestion which is resorted to for the express purpose
of establishing t he picture in the mind of the patient. That is, we
may think thoughts for the purpose of acting as suggestions . In other
words, we practice suggestion, only we do not Lpeak it . We think the
suggestion silently instead of speaking it, and this is just a s
powerful, in f a ct, more so, than the spoken suggestion. The practice
of Christian Scientists in sitting by the side of the patient and
realizing health f or him, without saying anything, without t alking,
but practicing the Eddy Silent Method, as it is called, silently real-
~z~ng health and truth for the patient, is based upon this principle.
As we formulate in mind a picture of the patient in that condition
which we desire him to realize, we in this way, establish that state
of mind, we establish in him that consciousness, consequently we a re
practicing bona fide suggestion. We do this by sitting by his bedside
or we may practice it at a considerable distance, in fact, thousands
of miles, in some cases, the method being perfectly the same.
The possibility for telepathiC suggestion unconsciously, even
to the one who is making the suggestion, that is to say, t he capacity
of thought for traveling from the mind which projected it, to another
mind, without the will or desire of either party concerned , makes it
very danger ous for sick people to be in the environment of those ~ho do
not understand the law and who are not living in har mony with health-
ful thoughts , etc. I t is, for this reason that it i s much better for
patients to be treated in sanitariums where they will be separated
from their friends, from everybody a s nearly as poss~ble , ~£o will be
thinking adverse to their recovery. It is also best the~ tee ~orld
should not know of their condition, part i cul arly i= t~ey are in a
critical state, becaus e if it be known, there wi~l ~e c~ger of the
thought of the world comi ng to the patie!lt , .:.:::! sp~te of ever ythi ng that
can be done.
Hypnotic Suggestion is tee same as t~ e ~as: eescr ibed , with the
exception tha t t he patient , whe!l byp=o:i~ec, :.s ~able to r efuse the
suggestion. In other f or~s of sugges:~on, ~~s jucgoent i s a ctive. He
may accept or re ject the suggestioD at w
:.::, but when he is hypnotized
it is utterly i mpossible for bi~ to exer cise any such selective
judgment. He must accept whatever suggestion comes from the hypnotist
and, accepting i t , he must repeat it , and t hus it f or ms the mental
picture which will express i tself in vi br ation. In a word, when hypno-
73
~~= =.:.. y:·.! =.: =ot have a word to say in regard to the pictures that
c:~ ~ ~E ~~ ~ 7our mental picture gallery. The hypnotist decides this
=== ~~=;~:=, ~d for this reason a hypnotic suggestion is much more
~=T~~_: ~~ ~-the ordinary suggestion. It cannot be gainsaid at all;
7 ::·..:. ::-:..:a·.·e .:..t ; you cannot help believing it because your intellectual
~-: : :.·.-.:..::· c...::C. everything is governed by the will of the hypnotist,
::~~;~~:=~ly it is more powerful in its effects on the physical body
~~=~~. o
=course , detrimental to the will of the patient. The hypno-
-
~ .::::, :::oTever, is not suggesting by what he says, but what he thinks.
z·:::-: :!:ought which comes into his mind is immediately projected to
:~: ~=d of the patient. He knows exactly what is in the mind of the
c~ :~ator ; knowing this he acts upon it . It is, therefore, highly
~-po~tant that the hypnotist should have absolute control of his
~ ~inking while he is hypnotizing his patient, because it is not what
~e says , but what he thinks that really constitutes the suggestion,
a nd when the suggestion is formed, has gone into the mind of the
patient , has formulated a corresponding mental picture, it is then, of
course, too late to remedy the evil, if it be an evil which is formed.
Suggestion, then, is the application of thought either expressed
in words or not so expressed, for the purpose of formulating a mental
picture of the desired result in the mind of the patient - Auto-
Suggestion when it is formed by the patient himself at first hand; in
other forms of suggestion it comes from another. External Suggestion is
a means unto the formation of Auto- Suggestion within the patient. The
suggestion is a definite statement which, in its nature, has the effect
of establishing the corresponding picture.
In one sense a ll suggestion is by affirmation; that is to say,
the statem~nt conveys with it a certain picture; it thus affirms that
picture . But denials, while affirming the picture, may be denying the
very thing which they affirm; that is to say, they may deny in an
intellectual sense, that certain conditions exist, nevertheless, they
a re forming the picture of that condition.
We may speak of ourselves, in practicing Auto-Suggestion, in the
first person, or in the second person. A very good way to practice
Auto-Suggestion is to give yourself a t alking to once in a while; talk
to yourself in the second person. That is quite a good way.
But in any event, Suggestion is a means unto the formation of
~.:..c:ure s of a desired condition and it is, therefore, to its use as an
e;a=-: unto mental picturing that all the efficacy of Suggestive Thera-
";:..::.:.cs is due .
74
L E S S 0 N 0 N
M A G N E T I C H E A L I N G
The basis of Suggestive Therapeutics, it should be borne in
mind, is the ability to direct and control the activity of the mag-
netic current within the organism of the patient by reason of the
influence of the imagination acting thereon, likewise the ability to
control the Astral energy through the mental pictures which are formed
in the mind of the patient by reason of the suggestion offered. It
will be seen, therefore, that in a general sense , particularly in the
treatment of functiona l diseases , the principal utility of suggestion
is the influence which it exercises upon the magnetism or vital cur-
rent of the patient. Any other method, which will control the magnetic
current of the patient or which will supply the healer ' s m
agnetism will
be likewise efficacious.
Suggestive Therapeutics is, in rea lity the direct ion of those
forces within the body of the patient, through the instrumentality of
a suggestion offered to his mind.
Magnetic Healing is the application of the magnetiso of the
healer to the body of the patient in such a way as to direct the cir-
culation of the patient's magnetic current to restore equilibrium in
the circulatory activity of the same , to co::1trol :.!.s cistribution a nd,
in some instances, t he supplying of the ~ag~e~:.s= o~ the healer dir ect
to the body of the patient for the purpose o~ ac~ :.=g in place of his
own. This latter method is pa!'ticular::y :-esor~ec t.o in cases where the
patient l acks t one, where ~e is wea~ - co~st:t~tional treatment , in
other words. Even in local t :-eatt:!e!lt , !:o\'lever, it may be found neces-
sary to magnetize the organ and l ocal nerve center in order that it
may perform its work until the system has had time to recuperate its
own energies.
The oldest method of l~agnetic Healing was by passes . The passes
a re r esorted to for the purpose of directing the circulation of the
vital force . The r ationale of magnetic pa sses lies in the fact that
75
you may control your own magnetism wherever it may be . If it is in the
body of the patient, it is just as much under your control as it is
when in your own body. By magnetizing the patient ' s body, in such a
way that your own magnetism becomes mixed, as it were, with his, and
directing the circulation of this magnetism, ~hich you have pla ced in
his body, you are , in this way, able to direct the circulation of his
own, : he pa sses are, therefore, made either with contact , that is when
~he fingers touch the body, or without cont ac~ , ~hen they are made at
a slight distance from the body. In either case , you must keep a
current of magnetism streaming through the e~ds of your fingers, enter-
ing the body of the patient and blending wit~ ~is own magnetic current.
~;ow, you should begin with the brain of the pa~~e~~ and gradually,
while maintaining the mind in a state of deep co=ce3tration, draw the
bands down in the same way, continua lly keep~=; ~~e picture in mind,
drawing his magnetic force down to the pl~e w~e ~e ~he weakness is ,
where you want the magnetism and even below: ~~~s ~eep the current
going through it until you have concentrated a:: ~~e cagnetism you
can. Then as you r aise your hands, be care~~ ~o ~~3 thee so that the
back of the hand will be exposed to the pat~e~t, a : so bringing them up
with a curved motion going outward for a ~h~:e ~c teen going back so
that they are brought together again over :~e top o~ his head . In this
way you will not draw the magnetism upTa~d T~~ : e you are raising the
hands. If you allow the arms to be near t~e pa~ient you will have the
effect of drawing the current backward ; then repeat the passes , drawing
it down again until the treatment is over . :n this way you will be
establishing the circulation in that part of the body.
The passes in this way act in precisely the same way upon the
nerve currents that massaging an organ, or the application of mechano-
therapy- manipulation to a muscle , does in stimulating the circulation
of the blood . You have turned the circalation of the nerve force into
that particular part of the body. You have charged it with the magnetic
force and it will continue to flow there for some time afterwards, and
the energy that you put there will in the meantime have accomplished
its work.
Do not be deceived with the idea that the relief which follows
a magnetic treatment is permanent - that is to say, that a chemical
change has taken place and that the symptom is permanently cured be-
cause it has disappeared. The relief which usually follows a magnetic
:~eatment is due to the f act that artificial stimulus has been supplied
:o :ne nerve centers, They are able to do their work much more effect-
;.·:e:y than they did before, but they are doing this work with a force
=:~e~ ~han their own. After a while, in the course of time, it will be
=.:.~r::: ·.- e.:-ed that the special stimulus has been exhausted, consequently
:~e ~a~~ent will be in the same condition as before. The magnetic
:~;a:=e=:s, therefore, must be continued for some time after the
76
patient is apparently cured, U3til the defect has been removed , and the
patient has had a chance to acc~~ate t=e ~eces s ary amount of energy
unto the successful perfor=ance of ~~e Tork .
In a word, a per oanent c~e i s one thi=g ; the r elief of disease
symptoms by magnet i c treatment is quite another t~ing . In some ca ses
you may want to give simply a general constitutional t r eatment, that
is, to send the magnetic current through the body. Ther e oay not be
any particular local trouble you wish to relieve, but you may f ind it
expedient to stimulate the circulation of the Prana throughout t he
system. In this way you should make your passes from the top of the
head down to the soles of the feet, even below, swooping downward, and
remember, do not make the passes in jerks , make them in one continuous
motion. Let there be one continuous movement from the top of the head
to the soles of the feet, swinging the hands backward, swinging the
arms around , bringing them up to the top of the head. In this way you
will give a continuous current.
Remember, also, there are certain directions in which the vital
forces circulate in the body and you should follow that natural
course, so as to quicken and stimulate the circulation, in the regular
way, not going contrary to the regular course of things; consequently
if you want to treat a disease which is a manifestation of a weakness
in the cerebro-spinal nervous system, you want to follow that course,
that is to say, you want to make the passes down the spinal column
until you come to where those nerves br anch off from the spinal cord.
Whenever you reach that point, you should swing your hands along that
nerve, so as to reach the organ; that is the proper way to make the
passes.
If you want to stimulate the entire cerebro- spinal nervous
system, bring your hands down the spinal cord close together, and down
to the sacral plexus and then down either limb and to the ends of the
toes. It is a very good way in giving treatments of this kind, to place
the patient on the table, face downward, and then come down the spinal
cord, following the course of the cerebro-spinal nerves.
If giving passes by contact, it will be found expedient in many
instances, to have the patient nude and to press rather firmly on the
tissue, with the fingers, while making the passes. However, you can
give this kind of treatment through the clothing (though it is a
little more difficult ) providing the patient does not have on any
silk. If wearing silk garments , it will be found very difficult to
give a magnetic treatment. You may, of course, if you are performing
Spiritual or Divine Healing, accomplish a great deal through the
clothing even if the patient have on silk; but silk is an absolute in-
sul ation to Physical magnetism and the Astral magnetism, which con-
tains the Prana, cannot get through it a s well as through other
garments, but, where possible, it will be found best to treat the nude
77
body. For ~~ :. s :-aaso:1 i t is very often expedient to pretend to practice
oassage T~:: : ;:-ac::cing magnetic healing. Massage or Osteopathy,
C~!'c:;l:-a= ::. ~ c:- ~echano-therapy are frequently excellent blinds to use
:.~ ~a=~~:.=~ ~ = :~e pra ctice of magnetic healing.
: : s~ :::.:.: c.. be borne in mind also, that any disturbance in the
~: = ~~~::.:= o= a nerve will effect all the organs and muscles which
a;c 5:.r;;;;:.:.ec by that nerve, consequently where the vertebrae press
~;:~ :~e =e:-ve passing between them, it will be impossible for the
~:-:;::- s=~~t of nervous stimuli to pass through that nerve.
~~e pr a ctice of Osteopathy and Chiropractic are, therefore,
=====ec ~p on a truth. In order to restore the state of health perma-
=== ::.~ . :.t will be found necessary to relieve that pressure . This may
=e co=e e ither by mechanical manipulation as those systems do, or it
=-a:· be done by the application of magnetism, stimulus to the nerves
~~ :. ch will so act as to relieve the pressure , by causing the muscles
to move and separate those vertebrae which have been pinching the
nerve. However, the mechanical adjustment will give relief, although
it i s undoubtedly better in the long run to have the adjustment grad-
ually a ccomplished through the activity of the m
agnetic force, than to
have it accomplished suddenly through mechanical adjustment. The
r eason for this is that had the nerves been acting properly, had the
proper degree of stimulus been received and had the muscles properly
r esponded to the same, no such condition would ever have existed. The
adjustment is required only by reason of the f a ct that the body is not
pr operly responding to this nervous stimulus. Now, to apply a mechan-
ical force is to relieve the muscles of the duty of responding to
nervous stimulus, consequently, to m
ake them less amena ble to such
influence. It is, therefore, better to have the adjustment a ccomplished
through the concentration of magnetic force than t hrough the a pplica-
tion of mechanical adj ustment.
The principle which I wish you to bear in mind is this: In
appl y ing magnetism you must follow along the natural course of that
ner ve ci rculation - never go against it . Consequ ently in stimulating
the cerebro- spinal circulation, you must act along the course of the
cerebro- s pinal nerves . It should be borne in mind that, genera lly
speaki ng, the cerebro- spinal nerves control t he human structure, the
shell, a s it were, the bodily organization, while the organs, the
f~ct i onal part of the body, the vital activities, are controlled by
~~e sympat hetic nervous system. Alwa ys bear this in mind; never try to
t:-eat the l a tter troubles through the cerebro- spinal nerves, but work
tL:-ough tbe sympathetic nerves . Bear in mind that the sympathetic
=er·..-o~s system centers in the solar plexus . Any weakness of the sym-
pa :~a~:.c nervous system is due to the fact that there is not a suffi-
c:.e=: qua:Itity of nerve stimuli flowing to the Solar Plexus. You
ca-~o: , t~erefore , r emedy a weakness of the sympathetic nervous system
78
as long as the Solar Plexus is weak. The first thing to do then, is to
stimulate the circulation of the Prana in the Solar Plexus, so that it
is charged, as it were, then act upon the sympathetic nerve, which
runs from the Solar Plexus to the particular organ which you wish to
treat. If you do not know just the direction, make your passes in such
a way as to go from the Solar Plexus to that particular organ the best
way you can, and they will find the nerve which will lead there .
Another way in which you may treat the weaknesses of the body is
by a lways remembering that there are two currents, the electrical and
the magnetic. These two currents are found on all the planes of
nature, i n ea ch of the principles. Bear in mind that Prana is both
electrica l and magnetic. The electrical force is generated in the left
hemisphere of the bra in; the nerve currents crossing , it consequently,
flows down t he right side of the body. The spinal column or spinal
cord i s double , having an el ectrical and m
agnetic side . Those nerves
which branch off from the right side of the spinal column, the three
large pairs of ner ves , are electrical; the left side, on the contrary,
is magnetic . Each of these pairs of nerves is double, there being a
sensory and a motor nerve and these divide into the diverse branches.
Therefore, if you f i nd your patient is l a cking in magnetism, make your
passes from the spinal cord to the left over the left side of the
body. If he is l acking in electricity, make them from the spinal cord
to the right side of the body. A very good way to do this is to make
them down the ri ~Qt arm and the right leg, or the left arm and the
l eft leg, as the case may be, but you may make them over the body in
general - the particular side of the body which you wish to treat .
However, it should be borne in mind that different sections of the
cerebro-spinal nervous system are controlled by different plexuses and
the particular plexus which controls that organ should be stimulated,
therefore , if you want to govern or control the nerves in a certain
part of the body, make your passes in such a way as to draw the cur-
rent as far down as the plexus, below the one controlling those
nerves . Remember, the head and face are controlled by the medulla
oblongata direct, that is to say, the nerves of the head and f ace
radiate from the medulla oblongata and do not go down the spinal column
below that.
The shoulders and the upper chest are governed by the Cervical
Plexus i mmediately between the shoulder s where they join the neck lying
on either side of the spinal cord.
The lower chest and back are governed by the Dorsal Plexus where
the shoulders join the back proper, that is to say, at the lower ex-
tremity of the shoulder. The Lumbar Region or Spinal Region, properly
speaking, is, of course, gover ned by the lumbar plexus.
The pelvic cavity, together with the sex organs , the hips and
the lower limbs, are governed by the sacral plexus . This, in fact,
79
governs the entire sacral region and lies on either side of the spinal
column at its lower extremity. All the nerves which have not already
branched off from the spinal column, branch off there. It may be found
by examining the point where the hips join the backbone - right there
is where you will find the Sacral Plexus and that is the point, the
positive pole, so to speak, of the nervous circulation in all that
part of the body.
Remember, that the positive pole is the plexus, and the nerve
center, which you wish to control, is the negative pole, therefore,
place your positive hand, which if you wish to treat electrically,
should be the right, if magnetically, the left -place this positive
hand over the plexus controlling the nerve centers, which you wish to
treat; place the negative hand over the weakened part, the nerve
center where you want the current to go, and then concentrate and the
current will be established and flow from your positive hand through
the plexus and through the nerve center into the negative hand. As
long as you keep your hands there and keep up this concentration, the
current will flow, and you treat it in precisely the same way you would
treat with an electric battery. If you wish to strengthen the plexus,
then you proceed in a different way; you place your negative hand over
the plexus which you want to treat; your positive hand you place
either along the spinal cord at the base of the brain and gradually
draw down to the negative hand with passes, thus directing the current
down, or else you may place it at the base of the brain, and then, by
concentration, make a current go down through the spinal cord. You
place your hand, that is , your positive hand, upon the Solar Plexus
and your negative hand over the region of the nerve center which you
wish to treat, if you want to treat the sympathetic nerves in this way
by stimulating the activity of certain organs; or else you may place
your right hand on the patient's head, and left or negative hand, on
the Solar Plexus and treat in this way. In some instances you may
place the right positive hand on the Solar Plexus, charging it direct
and with the left hand clasp the patient by one of his hands so as to
close the circuit, and thus impart the magnetism in this way.
Remember, now, that magnetism is physical or vital as the case
may be, the physical being the electric- magnetic force of the Etheric
Double and the same as electricity; the vital being the electro-
magnetic life force which acts through the Astral Body. In either
case, however, it is no higher than the Astral. It is closely analogous
to the sex force, in fact, it is an aspect of the sex force, particu-
larly Astral vital magnetism. This is generated in the organ of vita-
tiveness and amativeness and if you want to give your patient more
magnetism, you can very often accomplish it through the stimulation of
those organs .
In healing it is, therefore, discovered that the magnetism of
80
the healer is imparted to the body of the patient, and he is bene-
ficial in just the degree to which he imparts his own magnetism to his
patient's body and the purer the magnetism is , the freer from detri-
mental influences, of course, the better will be its effect. Whatever
is the condition of the healer - physical condition, we mean, that
will be imparted to the organism of the patient, through his magnetism.
Suggestion is employed for the purpose of directing the patient's
own magnetism.
Magnetic Healing is the magnetism of a healer imparted to the
body of the patient , either for the purpose of acting as a substitute
for his own magnetism or else as the means of directing that magnetism.
81
L E S S 0 N 0 N
S E X U A L H E A L I N G
In the study of the diverse healing or therapeutic agents pre-
sented in the human constitution, it is peculiar to observe that no
one, apparently, has recognized the great healing potency resident in
the polarity of the sex principle. Far more efficacious than simple
magnetic healing is this sex principle. We =ean the application of the
sex principle as such. It is, in fact, the application of the law of
pol arity to magnetic healing, magnetic healing dealing , as it were,
with magnetism in the united or blended state without reference to the
pole t o which it belongs, whether it be electrical or magnetic . A much
greater percentage of diseases, however, are caused by an improper
polarization of this electro- magnetic force. What we mean is that if
we get too electrical or too magnetic a s the case may be, there are
certain diseases which result directly from this condition. Amongst
the diseases which are caused by an excessively electrical condition,
may be included all forms of fever, c~olera, cholera morbus , diarrhoea
and everything of that kind . All di seases indicated by a looseness of
the bowel s, in fact, are due to an excessively electrical condition.
Now, it will be borne in mind by the student that in previous
lessons, it has been indicated that those bowel complaints were due to
the fact that the system had been clogged up with effete matter, and
that is true , but that miGht cause a ll the flowing or running of the
bowels and it is an excessively electrical condition of the system
which causes the expulsion from the system of those waste products .
It should be borne in mind, therefore, that the natural cure for
a clogged up system is to induce an electrical condition. If you treat
the system with magnetism, you will make it worse . By employing the
e!ectrical pole, the masculine , electro- magnetic energy, it will be
seen that you will almost immediately bring about this change which will
expel the poisonous substances from the system through the healing
current, manifesting itself in a discharge from the bowels .
82
Also, it should be borne in mind t hat the accumulation of effete
matter has a tendency to es t ablish an electrica l condition which will,
in turn, expel it from the system. This i s a wise provision which nature
has made. When t he system becomes clogged and loaded with effete matter,
this effete matter produces an electrical condition, and the electrical
condition expels the matter from the body. Consequently, if let alone
the accumulation will expel itself and thus bring relief, providing
the accumula tion is not so great that the electrical condition becomes
too powerful, producing a violent dia rrhoea , in which case, of course,
it must be checked by the application of magnetic force to neutralize
this excessively electrical condition.
Fevers are electrical in the same way and manifest the electrical
heat-generating principle which destroys effete matter and thus brings
relief. Fever or any other electrical condition is the natural destruc-
tive agent and therefore, natural curative agent for these accumula-
tions, though if it become too high and it is found expedient to cool off
the fever, it should be borne in mind that the remedy is magnetism; if
electrical force be employed it will kill the patient in a very short
time .
Heal ing, therefore, by one who does not understand the law of
polarity, is very dangerous, just as the practice of electro-therapeu-
tics, by one who does not understand this polarizing law, becomes ex-
ceedingly dangerous.
We know cholera to be an electrica l condition. One of the facts
which illustrate this point to perfection was brought for war d in Naples
dur ing the cholera epidemic quite a number of years ago. There was a
steel weight, weighing one hundred pounds, which was held suspended by
magnetic attraction between the points of a horse shoe magnet which
was suspended from the ceiling in the Gallery of Science . This had been
there for over a hundred yea rs, the magnetism in the magnet being strong
enough to maintain it in its state of suspension. The cholera wa s
raging. All Italy was prostrate. The entire army was there and they
undertook to handle the sick. People were dying in the streets, the fever
raging everywhere . It was as if a pall had fallen over Naples . All a t
once there was an earthquake. Instantaneously the steel weight f ell to
the floor, the fever cooled on every patient in Naples and the epidemic
was over. What is the explanation? The a tmosphere was intensely elec-
trical, everything was electrical and consequently the air had the
cholera; everything had the cholera, and it affected the people . They had
a ll taken on an intensely electrical condition. Cholera was, therefore,
raging. From some cause, planetary influence , perhaps , there was a
tremendous influx of magnetic force which charged the whole air, r ender -
ing it magnetic . The result was, the steel became charged with magnet ism,
and therefore, became for time being a magnet. As two magnets a re mu-
tually repella nt, the magnetic a t traction ceased ; it was driven from the
83
=.E~:: : :: :::e !':-cor, each repelling the other and the atmosphere becoming
::.::.;:::::::. :::_: people were charged with magnetism from this magnetic
z:=:~;:.::-:, : !:e ~agnatic current neutralizing the electrical current,
z=:. :2:-.:s ::::~ c~olera was expelled from them. the fever left them.
:-:.s aarthquake was, of course, due to the proximity of the vol-
::a.:::, -.-;s·~·;ius, and the magne·tic current which filled the air and the
;a_-:=- a=c everything, awakened the electro-magnetic force in the vol-
::a::::. T!:i.cb produced the earthquake .
:-!)is , therefore, illustrates to perfection the principle that
::::::::e:-a is due to an electrical condition of the organism, and anything
w::::.c!: will induce a magnetic condition will accompl ish a cure. It also
szp:ains why some people are far more susceptible to cholera infection
:n~ others, being more electrical, and therefore, having less magnetic
r esistance to be overcome in order to establish the electrical cholera
condition.
The heal er who is successful in treating cholera is, consequently,
the magnetic person, and the person who is intensely magnetic will find
it comparatively safe to treat and nurse cholera patients, as such a
person has so much magnetism that it is difficult for it to be overcome .
The treatment, then, for cholera must be magnetic, not electric .
Now, among those diseases which are caused by an intense, an ex-
cessively magnetic condition, are all forms of cold, catarrh, consump-
tion, hay fever and all that type of diseases, although, of course, the
remote cause is the accumulation of starch poison in the system, but that
condition will manifest itself in those diseases, the immediate cause
being a n intensely magnetic condition of the body. The magnetic condition
causes the expulsion in this way, and if you will look at it properly
you will see that the magnetic influence is one of the laws which Na ture
has devised to relieve those conditions, it being thus the manifestation
of the Great Wisdom which has been shown in causing the accumulation of
effete matter, and in this case produce a magnetic condition which will
expel it from the system.
If you wish to treat these troubles in such a way as to stop the
symptom instead of allowing the elimination in the ordinary way, or if
the e limination is too rapid- if you want, in a word, to stop the symp-
tom as it manifests, the treatment should be electrical, not magnetic,
unless you want to aggravate it.
Everything which manifests itself by choking or constipation of
the bowels, is also a magnetic condition and in order to induce a loose-
ness of the bowels, electrical force should be applied, the electrical
!'o.rce having the tendency to relax the muscles and consequently allow
:.!::e expulsion of the excrementory matter, while magnetic force has a
ten~ency to contract and , therefore, retain it.
Now , it should be borne in mind that heat is a mode of electrical
84
vibr ation, while cold is a mode of magnetic vibration. Wherever cold is
applied it produces the magnetic influence and heat the electrical. It
will, therefore, be seen at once tha t the practice of using inj actions
of warm water into the colon for relieving a constipated state of the
bowels, is strictly in harmony with the electro- magnetic principles
which we have been applying all the way through. In a word, it is a means
of imparting the electrical influence to the colon. Cold wa ter would
impart a magnetic influence; consequently. cold water is a perfect cure
for a discharge, and it has been discovered that even in the menstrual
discharge when it goes beyond the proper time, when there is danger of
the patient bleeding to death, by immersing the body in a bath of cold
water, the worst kind of a discharge, the most alarming . can be stopped in
a few minutes . This is the application of the same principle.
Now, by using the magnetic principle in electro- therapeutics ,
that is to say, the negative pole of the battery, you can produce the
same effect, in a way, or the positive pole for the electrical influence,
as the case may be.
But now, to come to the application of these principles to Sexual
Healing. The masculine sex energy is electrical , what is commonly termed
positive, while the feminine is magnetic, or negative, as it is usually
expressed. The positive or electrical force is gener ated in the left
hemisphere of the brain and passed in currents down the right side of
the body ; the feminine or magnetic principle, is generated in the right
hemisphere of the brain and passed down the left side of the body. In
the male, of course, the electrical principle very greatly predominates
over the magnetic , while in the female . the magnetic greatly predom-
inates over the electrical; but we find in the human f amily, various
degrees in the proportional manifestation of these activities. It should
always be borne in mind that mankind is largely the product of those
forces. We see a person who is excessively electrical, so much so that the
femini ne principle is practically absent. The result is, he is dried up,
as it were; the skin becomes hard and dry. There is no brightness in the
eyes; the heart becomes hard and the joints stiff; the step is halting;
there is no life to speak of. He becomes jaundiced i n a way. Now, if we
l ook at this case properly we see that the man is intensely electrical
and is dying for want of the magnetic principle. In such a case let him
fal l in love; l et him particularly get married, and it will be found that
in a comparatively short time this condition will have entirely left
him. His flesh fills out , his eyes brighten, his complexion clears , his
entire being i s pulsating with new life. What are the facts in the case?
He has simply drawn from his wife the magnetism which he required to
restore the equilibrium; he has obtained equilibrium by reason of feed-
ing on his wife ' s magnetism and for this reason marriage has bee?, for
him, very desirable . It is not anything like so much in sexual inter-
course as in the magnetic exchange which is secured by reason of the
85
society of the wife, which benefits the married man in this particular
way.
Bow many people have noticed the fact that old bachelors become
c:r-.1sty and harsh in their ways, and it has been discovered, therefore,
t~at generally speaking, love between the sexes has been advantageous.
:-r:e reason why old bachelors become what they a re is because of the
excessively electrical condition, which becomes developed within them
~d they require the magnetic influence. On the other hand, old maid-
ishness among women is due to an excessively magnetic influence. The
reason why married women do not become old maidish is because they are
drawing the electrical principle from their husbands , and at the same
time giving off their magnetic principle to them. Thus the equilibrium
is maintained.
Now, when a woman is transmitting magnetism to a man who is starv-
ing for it, if she has an over abundance of magnet ism, it is good for her,
but if she has not, then it is not so desirable, and vice versa. The prin-
ciple of love and marriage is that interchange of the electro-magnetic
principle between the sexes.
Now, this principle manifests itself in certain characteristics.
We see children who cannot be still, they are "fidgity," and all the
time full of mischief, in many instances . The bad boy, the mischievous
child , is not so because he is constitutionally mean. It is really from
a superabundance of life, energy, sex energy, in a way, because the
sex energy manifests long before the time of puberty, in fact, during
all life, but this differentiation becomes very strong after puberty,
and boys of this type and men, are such because of the superabundance
of electrical energy. Fast girls and women, on the other hand are such
because of the superabundance of magnetic energy. If they could get rid
of this they would become normal. The normal type is where the equilib-
rium is properly maintained. The abnormalities are due to an excessive
condition one way or the other. Now if they are married, or if they are _
in
love, there is then an interchange of these principles which brings the
relief required, or in any event, allows them to transmit to the beloved
object the over abundance of energy and at the same time to draw from
that one the other element, so as to maintain the state of equilibrium.
Artists, painters, etc., transmit a great deal of their sexual energy to
their work, etc.
Now, what we mean by Sexual Healing, is that the principle which
is unconsciously applied in marriage and love may be consciously and
deliberately applied in the practice of therapeutics. What we mean is
teat those persons who find themselves suffering from a superabundance
o~ sex energy, may employ it in the healing of disease. Thus they may
get rid of it . However, it must be borne in mind that to do this prop-
e!'.!y, in those cases, men should be healers of women and women healers
of cen. Of course , a case of "Lost Manhood" should be treated by a man
86
because in such case there is a lack of the electrical principle, and in
women, cases of sexual impotency should be treated by women because
there is a weakness of the magnetic principle. Generally speaking,
sexual disorders should be treated by the same kind of magnetism which
the patient may possess , because in such cases, it is due to a weakness
of the normal principle ; but there are, of course, except ions even in
sexual disorders but in the main it will be found better for men to have
female healers and for women to have male healers . Particularly in
treating those diseases which, in their nature , indicate an abundance
of the electrical over the magnetic force in male patients, women should
be resorted to, to impart the magnetic principle . On the other hand, where
the disease indicates an over abundance of magnetism, the electrical
principle should be imparted to maintain the state of equilibrium. This
practice will be applying the strictly natural principle to the treat-
ment of disease. It will be extremely rational in its character because
it will be removing the cause, it will be supplying the natural defect,
and at the same time it will relieve the healers of the superabundance of
sex energy which they, themselves possess.
There is absolutely no question that the susceptibility of girls
to seduction is due to their intense femininity, or the intense mag-
netic state. There is a demand for an outflowing, a demand absolutely
that this magnetic force should escape and in such cases they are easily
induced to commit sexual crimes . Many girls become prostitutes for no
other reason than the fact that they have a superabundance of magnetic
force which must express itself in some way, and society has not seen a
way to provide a means for this, consequently they yield. The dissipa-
tion and sexual perversion of men are due also to an excessively elec-
trical condition, and by the development of this method of healing,
there will be provided a natural avenue of escape for all of this energy.
In this way it will be seen that Nature has really provided rem-
edies for all the ills of life, if we only knew where to look for them.
Let the fast woman and amorous man, therefore, engage in the practice
of healing and let them heal persons of the opposite sex, and they will
find the avenue of escape. This may sound strange to the reader, to be
recommended, in cases of excessive voluptuousness, or amorousness, or
wantonness to go into the practice among members of the opposite sex,
but this is exactly what is requisite. In this way they will get rid of
that force, that energy which is prompting them along the lines of
sexual excess.
The sexual pervert is , therefore, simply one who has an over
abundance of sex energy, which is improperly directed. Those cases,
however, where women contract an unnatural passion for members of their
own sex are due to the f ac t that they are not normal women; that is to
say, not magnetic, but are intensely electrical, and are demanding
magnet ism. They must get rid of the electrical force, consequently they
87
are drawn to women, and this trouble can be relieved by their going into
the healing business and healing other women, having women for their
patients instead of having men patients. Likewise, men who have an un-
natural inclination toward other men may have the condition relieved
by treating men because in such cases, they are feminine, in a way. They
are full of the feminine principle, or magnetism. Thus the allusion to
certain characters as being effeminated, is correct , if we understand
by this term not weakness, but simply an abundance of magnetism ,
rather than electrical force; and the "~.~annish" woman is such because
she has more electrical force than magnetic .
The great difficulty has been that Western Doctors have failed
to realize the two principles and the:.::- operation throughout all nature .
Now, the Yogis understand this perf ec:l:r a:1d a great portion of their
philosophy is built up upon this pr:.::1c:.p:e of the twofold sex differ-
entiation in nature. We learn, in tne:.r p!::ilosophy and that of the
Sankhya school, likewise, that t!:e:-e a:-e t.To currents which pass down
from the brain. The spinal cord is rea :!y represented by a number of
figure "8's," one r esting over the o:.!:;e::-. ::"lese figures will, therefore,
represent two hollow tubes, o:::e o:: e:.:.::er side, with also a place be-
tween where they come together, a:::.c i:. s!:ould be understood that that
also, is tubular. Now, down the ::-:g!::. s i de of this, down the right tube,
flows the electrical force, down t.=e left side, the magnetic . What we
term the electrical or magnetic force, they term the "Gunas," and the
two Gunas flow through the system. :!:ey go down until they have gone
over the body. They reach the bottoo of the spinal cord, the triangular-
shaped pocket at the bottom of the spinal cord, the sacral plexus. There
the sex energy accumulates ; that is to say, that which is not used up by
the body in the ordinary vitalizing processes , and by the sexual organs
and sexual intercourse, that which does not go to generate the sexual
influence, that which is left after all other purposes have been ful-
filled, is stored up and coils up in the Serpent, the Kundalini, which
remains in that pocket at the bottom . Now, it cannot return the way it
came, as this hollow which is between the two, right in the center of
the spinal cord, is stopped up by a bony partition which covers the
triangular pocket in the sacral plexus. This stopped up or coiled up
Kundalini, the Serpent, may however, by certain regular practices be
oade to strike on the partition as it is raised up, and as you make it
::-ise up and strike there, it will at last, batter away that bony parti-
tion and open the way. Then, in time, as it continues to accumulate , by
certain Yogi practices , it may be raised up until it reaches the lumbar
p:exus , when it gives a certain degree of illumination, physical illum-
i:lation , we will say. Illumination on the physical plane comes from this.
i\=en it has risen until it has reached the dorsal plexus , Astral illum-
.:.nation comes . At last, as it reaches the cervical plexus, Mental illum-
ination is the result, and when finally it is brought on up to the Medulla
88
Oblongata, it there leads to Buddhic illumination, and when fina lly the
Kundalini goes on until it fills the Thousand- Petalled Lotus of the
brain, Spiritual illumination comes to us .
We, therefore, find that illumination consists of the drawing up
of the Kundalini, through this opening, to the brain. The circuit is from_
this time restored. The sex force then, when it goes down to the bottom
of the spinal cord to the sacral plexus and has nourished the body, is
drawn upward and flows back, both poles together. Being now polarized,
it flows back to the brain, and this gives Adeptship, Illumination, etc .
It can now be seen why it is so dangerous !'or any one but celibates
to practice those exercises, the design of w~:.c:-: :s to draw up the
Kundalini. They draw the sex force upward , :::: ~!' :.~:.s be dissipated,
through indulgence, the result will be :.::sa:::.::~:.:: every instance. One
who does not lead a perfectly chast.e ::.:-s :::-::-.::.c. ::e·:er think of perform-
ing those practices.
It is, consequentl:· ::.:·::-::;.::a:-:=:::;:!' :::::se !"orces which a re
ordinarily sent !'or:!: to c::e c!' : :-:: ::;:.:;:s:.:: s:::, :7 polarizing them
and bringing thee =ac~ :::;:. :.:::: :-~ : _ :::.::;, ~es:o~:.~g them to the
brain, that t.he rege::e~a::.:::: =~ :::= ::::::~ :s ::a~e poss:.ble . The Sexual
principle is, t.~ere~o :- e, :!::e great. !::ea::.::g :'o~ce of the human organism
and should be employee .:::1~elligently as a !:ealing agent ; but to do this
it is necessary to lead a pure life. It is for this reason that celibates
are able to do much more effective healing than married men and women
or than people who do not lead perfectly chaste lives. If they do not
lead lives of perfect purity, they will transmit what force they have,
of course, but it will not be anything like as effective- may, in fact,
rob them of the energy which they require.
The Sex Energy is generated in the Organ of Amativeness, conse-
quently, to develop this principle in another person, you should apply
magnetism to his Organ of Amativenes at the base of the brain. If you
want to stimulate magnetism, apply it to the right organ, the one in the
right hemisphere of the brain. If you would stimulate electrical force,
apply it to the left, and in this way you can stimula te the correct force
or principle by stimulating that center, that faculty, which under
ordinary conditions will generate that principle within the organism.
If it is inconvenient to treat only members of the opposite sex,
for instance, if you want to give both kinds of treatment, both elec-
trical and magnetic, you may accomplish the work by always using the
right hand as the positive hand when giving electrical treatments, and
the left hand should always be the positive hand when giving magnetic
treatments. Also, when stimulating the magnetic force in your patient,
place your left or magnetic hand upon the right side of the brain. Your
right, or electric hand, if you want to treat the brain, also, should
be placed on the left or electrical side; but if you do not wish to do
that, if you wish to treat the body, then take the patient's right hand
89
as being the electrical side ; if the contrary, use the other hand the
sa::ne v;ay. Remember always, that the left hemisphere of the brain and the
r:ght side of the body are electrical, the right hemisphere of the brain
a:Jd the left side of the body are magnetic, and give your treatments ac-
cordingly, and you will find you will be able to apply the Sex principle
i:J healing, in the most perfect and most efficacious manner conceivable.
It should be borne in mind that the sunlight is electrical and
:be moonlight, magnetic , consequently sun baths may be found very ef-
ficacious for patients who need more masculinity, more of the electrical
force , but should never be indulged in by persons who have too much, and
require magnetism or feminine force. Moonlight walks at night, sleeping
in a room where the moonlight can enter, getting in connection with
moonlight, will be valuable for those needing more magnetism or fem-
inine influence. For this reason it will be found that ordinarily it is
better for women to take sun baths and men moon baths, only in cases where
women are suffering from sexual impotency, when moonlight is very
desirable for them, and in cases of sexual weakness in men , sunlight will
be found advantageous . For the same reason , it is found that women or-
dinarily prefer hot baths, and hot baths are better for them because
they draw off the magnetism of the wooen and impart the electrical force,
and so, in a limited degree, will be found to be on the same principle as
a love affair ; while cold baths are much better for men, drawing off the
superabundance of electrical force and imparting more magnetism, and
will be found quite as valuable as a l iaison. However, there is an ex-
ception to this in cases of men who are sexually weak, who want to become
more masculine . Such men should bathe in warm water; and women who re-
quire more femininity should bathe in cold water, as in this way they
will draw off some of the masculinity and take on more of the feminine
or magnetic principle . Any application of this general rule will be
found to be an application of the general law of Sexual Healing.
Sexua l Healing is simply the application to therapeutic uses, of
this principle of sex polarity, which i s found to work throughout all
natur e.
90
RALEIGH BOOKS AND
LESSONS
Complete list of the Hermetic works by Dr. A. S. Raleigh, published in book form
and which will be sent postpaid at prices listed:
The Central Spiritual Sun and
The Virgin of the World . ............... . . . ..... . ......S 1.00
The Lakshmi Avatar, Lakshmi and the Gopis. . ............. 1.00
The Law of Karma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
The Two Paths or the Parting of the Ways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00,
Woman and Super-Woman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.00
Shepherd of Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.50
Stanzas of Dzjn (Theogenesis) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Philosophia Hermetica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Scientifica Hermetica ........ 0 • • • 0 • • • 0 • 0 • • 0 • • • 0 0 • 0 • • • • • • • • 10.00
Hermetic Art . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Philosophy of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Science of Alchemy ........... 0 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 10.00
Speculative Art of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Science of Motion and Number . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Fundamentals Revealed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Consciousness Unveiled . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Magic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Occult Geometry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Phrenogarten Course (explains the brain) .................. 10.00
Metaphysical Heating, Volume I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Metaphysical Healing, Volume II .. 00............... .... .. 7.50
Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's Story, Brushwood Boy
and the Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's Story, They . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Manuscript Le &ons, nicely typed and bound
The Secret Sermon on the Mount or the Way of Rebirth . .... 10.00
Inte...--pretacion to Henry Van Dyke's Story, The Other Wise
Man . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
We also make a specialty of rare. out-of-print book! along the line of Occult:i.sm,
Mysticism, the Kaballa. the Tarot. llipc. Alchemy. - ymbollim.. 1lythology, Rosicru-
cianism, Hermeticism and kiDdred rohjecu. A circular ilio~-i.ng title! and prices of
our list of rare, out-of-print books "'ill be sent free of cost upon request.
HERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
3006 Lake Park Ave. Chicago, TIL, U. S. A.
