{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__bush___anastasis.pdf","mytitle":"Anastasis","mylang":"de"}
V
A N A S T A S I S :
OR
THE DOCTRINE
OF TUB
RESURRECTION OF THE BODY,
RA TIO N A LLY AND SCRIPTURALLY CONSIDERED.
“Eon aúpa wevpanKov.
Paul.
BY GEORGE BUSH,
m o rE sa o R o f He b r e w , n e w yoiik c ity u n iv e r s it y .
LONDON:
W IL E Y AND PUTNAM, 6 WATERLOO-PLACE.
1845.
[Entered at Stationeri-Hall.]
Digitized by Google
;
Digitized by Google
P R E F A C E .
It is, I am persuaded, but seldom that a work is presented to
the public under a more oppressive load of conscious solemn re­
sponsibility than which presses upon my own spirit in delivering
over to the verdict of the Christian community the present vol­
ume. By no possibility can I disguise from myself the fact, that
the results which it announces are of very momentous import to
the interests of revealed truth. From the inevitable relations
ofthe doctrine of the Resurrection to the cognate announcements
ofthe great scheme of Scriptural Eschatology, or the doctrine of
the last things, a course of reasoning, or a theory of interpreta­
tion which goes essentially to change the established view of
that tenet, must necessarily'work a correspondent change in our
estimate of a whole class of subjects bearing upon the theme of
human destiny in another life. Now it is certain that the con­
clusions to which I have arrived, and which will be found em­
bodied in the ensuing pages, must, if built upon sound premises,
present the grand future under an entirely new aspect. The
resurrection of the body, if my reasonings and expositions are
well-founded, is not a doctrine of revelation.
I cannot be unaware of the shock which such a declaration is
calculated to give to the settled preconceptions of a great portion
of Christendom. Nor can I be insensible to the imputation,
which it can scarcely fail to draw after it, of an uncommon
degree of temerity in thus .virtually assuming to arraign and
to convict of error the current creed of the Church for the space
of eighteen centuries. The severity of judgment reasonably to
be expected on this score I know can be propitiated only by an
overwhelming cogency ofproof of the truth of the main position.
This it would doubtless be rash to promise; but it may go some­
yGoogk
VI PREFACE.
what perhaps in arrest of a condemning verdict to assure the
reader, that I have profoundly weighed all the considerations
which naturally urge themselves upon one who ventures to such
a length of rational and exegetical hardihood as he will probably
find evinced in the work before him. I beg him also to believe,
that nothing short of the most intense conviction of the truth of
the principles on which my conclusions rest, could have prevailed
upon me to stand forth so much in the attitude of an impugner of
the fixed beliefof good and great men both of the past and the
present. For to say nothing of the rashness of hazarding a du­
bious theory upon a cardinal doctrine, I have, in a worldly point
of view, every thing at stake : as no former services in the cause
of biblical truth can be expected to redeem any man from the
consequences of a subsequent radical error. It is doubtless
reasonable that this avowal should carry with it some weight
in evidence of the strength of my own convictions of the truth of
the positions I have assumed to maintain, although I am well
aware that this is not the kind of evidence neoessary to secure
the convictions of the reader.
If any thing can be cited in the way of apology for thus going
against the prevalent views of the Christian world on an import­
ant point of doctrine, it is the establishment of the principle
maintained in my Introduction, of the progressive development
of Scriptural truth. This principle I believe to be a sound one,
and under its tutelage my conclusions must take shelter.
On a candid review of the whole subject, I cannot divest my­
self of the impression that both my premises and my conclusions
are sound. If so, let it not be thought strange that my solicitude
for the result embraces my readers as well as myself. Truth
has the same claims upon them that it has upon me. As it must
necessarily be a matter of serious moment with me to propagate
that which is false, so it cannot be a thing of light import with
them to reject that which is true. It is at any rate certain, that
no one can justly feel himself at liberty, in the forum of his own
conscience, to repudiate or decry the positions assumed in this
book without a thorough examination of the grounds on which
they rest, and a competent exegetical exposé of the fallacy of my
reasonings. I feel, with great force, the justice of my demand,
that the argument shall be fairly met, and this it cannot be but
by a process of investigation similar to that which I have myself
Digitized by Google
PREFACE. Vll
instituted in the ensuing pages. No candid mind, therefore, can
fail to appreciate the earnestness with which I enter my protest
against the hasty verdict of mere prejudice and preconception.
Putting, as I do, every thing at stake on the score of reputation,
influence, usetulness, and temporal well-being, I feel that I have
a right to be heard in defence of conclusions so fraught with
weal or woe to their author. When such a hearing can be
secured on the part of enlightened minds, I cannot say that I
cherish much, concern as to the issue. I have the utmost confi­
dence that the evidence, when fairly presented, will strike them
as it does me. Yet but a slight acquaintance with the history
of opinion, and particularly of religious opinion, is requisite to
beget the anticipation, that the work will be condemned, if at
all, by those who will be so much offended at the conclusion,
that they will not deign to put themselves in possession of the
premises. It is, however, a consolation to which I should blush
to be insensible, that Truth has Omnipotence for its Patron,
and that, like Wisdom, it will eventually be “justified of its
children.”
After all, I know not that a mainly deprecatory tone is that
which the true character of my work most properly warrants.
If I could deem myself to have come forth as an opponent
to the great truth involved in the doctrine of the Resurrec­
tion—if I had invaded in a ruthless way the faith of a future life,
ofimmortality, of retribution—I might have stronger motives for
seeking to soften the sentence which I could not hope to avoid.
But it is not in this character that I claim to appear before the
tribunal of the Christian public. There is nothing destructive
in the bearings of the theory here presented. I have advanced
nothing that is intrinsically calculated to weaken the force of
the great moral sanctions of the Gospel. I leave the sublime
announcements ofthe Resurrection—the Judgment—Heaven—
Hell—clothed with all their essential practical potency, as doc­
trines of revelation, though placed, as I trust, upon their true
foundation, and eliminated from the mixtures of long adhering
error. I may venture then to say, that whatever sentiments of
repugnance the views here broached may encounter in limine,
it will arise rather from the hearsay results which I have an­
nounced, than from a calm and candid scanning ofthe entire ar­
gument The issue of this I am confident will be a far more
yGoogk
M i l PREFACE.
elevated and satisfying view of man’s ulterior destiny, than that
which is afforded by the common construction of the subjects 1
have treated. The theory here announced ofthe Resurrection,
while it perfectly obviates the objections from Reason, clothes
the Scripture statements with a new interest, from the bare fact
that they are seen to be capable of uttering their oracles in har­
mony with the dicta of science and philosophy. Every exhibi­
tion of Scriptural truth which goes to wrest its weapons from the
hands of a cavilling skepticism, in fact achieves for it a new tri­
umph, and the more perfectly it can be shown to echo the voice
of Nature and of Law, the more complete must be its authority
over the human mind.
It is far from improbable that some lapses of statement—
some errors in reasoning—some faults of exposition—may be
detected in the minor details of the discussion. For the exposure
of such blemishes I shall be truly grateful, while at the same time
the candid critic will feel that the argument claims to be met at
its strong, as well as at its weak points. Especially would I ex­
press the hope that the avowed substantial identity of the theory
with that of Swedenborg may not operate to the undue dispar­
agement of the whole work. That I have been here and there
indebted to Mr. Noble’s able and interesting “ Appeal in Behalf
of the Views of the Eternal World and State held by the New
Jerusalem Church,” will be seen from the several quotations I
have made from it; but I here repeat that my main results have
been arrived at by a purely independent process. But the course
of argument pursued by that writer I regard as sound and suc­
cessful ; and neither my convictions nor my habits allow me to
consider the force of truth as neutralized, by being found in con­
nexion with incidental error. As to the claim of Sweden­
borg to have received his doctrine on this or other points by a
supernatural illumination, I have nothing to say. The acquaint­
ance I have been led to form with his character and writings
have inspired me, on the whole, with sentiments of respect for
the man, while at the same time the very principle which he so
strenuously inculcates, of admitting no evidence but that which
satisfies the reason, prevents me from acceding to many of his
leading views, particularly in the interpretation of Scripture.
His psychology I regard as standing on an entirely different ba­
sis, and to be judged of by its own evidence. This is certainly
yGoogk
PAEFACE. IX
worthy of a degree of attention which I am persuaded it will
eventually receive; and I would fain have it distinctly under­
stood, that it is m reference to this part ofhis system exclusively
that any such concession is made.
The reader will perhaps be prompted to inquire why, as I
have treated the Resurrection in connexion with the Judgment,
I have not also displayed it in its definite relations to the Second
Advent, with which it would appear to be equally intimately
associated in die great Bcheme of Eschatology. To this I re­
ply, that an accurate examination of what 1 have advanced on
the general Bubject will readily disclose my own opinion that
the Second Advent of the Saviour is not affirmed to be personal,
but spiritual and providential, and that the event so denomi­
nated is to be considered as having entered upon its incipient
fulfilment at a very early period of the Christian dispensation.
To this view I am compelled to adhere, so long as the declara­
tion stands unrepealed—“ Verily I say unto you, there be some
standing here, which shall not taste of death till they see the
Son of man coming in his kingdom.” If the word of inspira­
tion can be shown to contain the announcement of any other
Second Coming than that which commenced in the lifetime of
the generation then living; and if this can be proved to be truly
a second, instead of a third coming, I shall be ready at once to
embrace it. In the mean time I must confess my mind to be so
constructed as to be incapable of receiving an alleged doctrine
of revelation, without adequate evidence that the interpretation
upon which it is founded is sound.
I shall, however, after all, deem it strange, if it should not be
said, that my argument amounts to little, for the reason that it
assumes to know what Godhas not been pleased toreveal. The
simplefa ct ofa resurrection, it will probably bemaintained, is all
that the Scriptures announce; and that it can be nothingshort of
perilous presumption to attempt to determine any thing as to the
nature of the raised body, or the mode by which its resurrection
is effected. All such attempts are, in the opinion of multitudes,
to be set down to the account ofmere empty speculation, and of
being wise above what is written. They go, it is said, on the
principle of subjecting Faith to the ordeal of Reason, and are to
be peremptorily frowned down by all the genuine reverers of
holy writ.
yGoogk
X PREFACE.
Now if it is implied by this, that there is really any more
assumption on the theory which I propose than on the common
one, I deny the truth of the implication at once. Indeed, it is
precisely on the ground of the assumed knowledge of what is
not and cannot be known, that I dissent from the popular view.
That view takes it for granted that the truth of Scripture teaches
the re-construction of the future body out of the dissolved and
dissipated remains of the present one; and that, too, by a pure
miracle, in entire independence of the working of the vital prin­
ciple. This fact is assumed to be known, because it is held that
revelation teaches it; and that knowledge is necessarily made the
standard by which the alleged ignorance of any contrary theory
is to be judged and convicted. How can any eentiment be ar­
raigned on the score ofignorance or error, without some assumed
criterion of knowledge and truth ? Now I distinctly charge up­
on this assumption, that it is groundless, fallacious, and false. I
hesitate not to aver, that the knowledge and certainty claimed
for the prevalent views of the resurrection, and on the ground
of which vain speculation is charged upon the contrary, have no
foundation. When once submitted to the ordeal of the un­
derstanding, they are seen to involve ideas at war with each
ohter, and therefore cannot be intelligently received. There is,
then, to say the least, as much speculation on the one theory as
on the other; and if that which is here proposed does not satisfy
the reason, just as little is reason satisfied by the common view.
But here I am accosted again by the stern interrogatory,
What right has Reason to demand satisfaction at all on a point
of doctrine addressed solely to Faith? To this I reply, that
Reason certainly has a rightful claim to be clearly informed aB
to what is the doctrine to be believed; nor can it possibly be re­
quired to forego its prerogatives in dealing with a professed reve­
lation from heaven, containing the points to which our assent is
demanded. While it is the office ofReason reverently to receive
all that God has clearly and incontrovertibly taught, Reason
must still act in determining the true sense o f what He has
taught. It is human Reason that originates the rules ofinterpre­
tation for the inspired volume, and we claim nothing more for it
than its appropriate function, when it is thus called in to decide
the meaning of revelation. This meaning, when really at­
tained, must always be in harmony with its own oracles.
yGoogk
PREFACE. XI
All truth must of necessity be eternally consistent with itself.
No man is required to hold views of revelation to which a sound
and enlightened science or philosophy can solidly object. No
intelligent believer in the Bible will yield the rationality of his
faith to the skeptical assailant. He will give to no one on this score
a vantage ground on which he can laugh in his sleeve at the
weakness or credulity which receives, as points of faith, dogmas
at war with known facts or unimpeachable deductions. If the
averments of that word which professes to have emanated from
the Omniscient Spirit, clash with any positive, fixed, irrefragable
truth in the universe, then the word itselfmust be a forgery and a
lie ; for God would never set one truth in contradiction to another.
Panoplied by this principle, which is as firm as the perpetual hills,
if, in the careful scanning of that word, the letter speaks a lan­
guage contrary to clearly ascertained facts in nature and sci­
ence, he will take it as type, figure, allegory, metaphor, symbol,
accommodation, anthropomorphism—any thing, rather than the
declaration of absolute verity. His Bible comes from the same
source with the philosopher’s boasted Reason. God is the Infi­
nite Reason, and it is impossible that the reception of his word
can involve the denial of that lofly prerogative in man.
May I hope then for exemption from any special severity of
judgment, on the score ofthe freedom with which I have entered
upon the examination of the doctrine of the Resurrection as
popularly held? Our grand object of quest, as rational and ac­
countable creatures, is Truth. What possible interest can any
man have in adhering to error rather than truth ? What con­
ceivable motive can weigh with any one to close his eyes to the
real, difficulties which may encompass any particular article of
his faith ? Can he wink them into non-existence ? Is it not bet­
ter to look them full in the face, and acknowledge all their force ?
Is it not well to inquire if there be not some solution of them
which shall be consistent at once with right reason and with
sound interpretation ? This is the task which 1 have essayed
in the present volume. With what success remains to be 6een.
The idea maintained throughout the work, that the Resur­
rection is effected by the operation of natural laws, may strike
some of my readers as a virtual “ limiting the Holy One of Is­
rael,” who, as he was originally free and sovereign in the estab­
lishment of these laws, must be regarded as equally free to dis­
yGoogk
Xll PREFACE.
pense with them in any part of his procedures. This we may
doubtless admit, provided there is any thing in the nature of the
case, or in his own declarations, which lays the foundation for
such a belief. Otherwise, the presumption undoubtedly is, that
he will adhere to the fixed constitution of things, in bringing
about the purposed results of his providence, however grand
or stupendous, or baffling to our comprehension. In the present
case, we believe nothing can be cited from the express intima­
tions of his word, which enforces upon us the necessity of refer­
ring the event announced to the purely miraculous agency of
Omnipotence; and we know too little of the laws operating
throughout the universe of being, to affirm their irtcompetency
to the production of the result in question.
It can scarcely be necessary to remark, that the theory ofthe
Resurrection disclosed in this volume, brings the present into en­
tirely a new relation with the future life, and clothes the subject
of human destiny with an interest to which no reflecting mind
can be insensible. If well founded, it strikes an effectual blow
at all those crude anticipations which would throw forward the
awards of eternity to an indefinitelyfuture period, interposing an
interval of such extent as greatly to relax their force as moral
sanctions, and plants us in the closest proximity to the spiritual
world, with all its unutterable grandeur of interest and power of
appeal. The ordinary gross conceptions of the local relations
of heaven and hell to each other, and to the present sphere of
our existence, are done away, and we look to the precincts of
our own bosoms for the constitutive elements of each.
It remains but to close with an earnest invocation to the di­
vine Spirit of Truth, to own and crown with his blessing the
well-meant labor undertaken and accomplished in the present
volume. G. B.
New-Yobk, Oct. 1, 1844.
yGoogk
CONTENTS.
Introduction .— The knowledge of Revelation Progressive,
PART I.
Page
13
Chatter I.— T he Argument from Reason, ‘ '
Chapter II-__Distinction of Personal and Bodily Identity,- -
Chapter III.— The True Body of the Resurrection as inferred by
Reason, - - - - - - -
PART II.
T he Scriptural Argument.
Chapter I.— Preliminary Remarks, - - - * "
Chapter II.__The Old Testament Doctrine of the Resurrection, -
C hapter III-— Onomatology ; Definition of Terms, - -
Chapter IV.— Ezamination of Particular Passages, - .- -
Genesis 17: 7,8, - - - " "
Job 19: ...........................................................
Psalm 16: 9, 1 0 , ......................................
“ 17: 1 5 , ...............................................
49: 1 4 ,1 5 ,......................................
Isaiah 2 5 :7 ,8 , - - - " “ "
“ 26: 1 9 , ......................................
^ Ezekiel 37: 1 - 1 4 , ......................................
Hosea 6 :2 , - - - * " "
•• 13: 1 4 , ...............................................
Daniel 12:2, - - * ‘ "
C h a pter V.—The New Testament Doctrine of the Resurrection,
C h a pter V I.—Origin and Import of the word ‘ Resurrection,’
used in the New Testament, - - - ■
C h a pt e r V II.—The Resurrection of Christ. - - - -
- 85
92
- 94,
96
- 97
99
104
105
108
111
114
121
123
- 126
131
141
as
- 144
151
D igitized by Google
IV CONTENTS.
Chapter VIII.—Examination of Particular Passages, - - 1G6
1 Cor. 15: 12, 1 3 ,................................................ 169
“ “ 1 6 - 1 8 , ................................................ 170
“ « 2 0 -2 3 ,........................................ 173
“ “3 5 - 3 7 , ............................................. 174
“ “ 3 8 -4 1 ,................................................182
« " 4 2 - 4 4 , ............................................. 184
" “ 5 0 -5 3 ,........................................ 189
Mat. 5: 2 9 ,3 0 ,............................................... 203
“ 10: 2 8 , ............................................... 205
“ 22 : 3 1 ,3 2 ,............................................... 206
“ 27: 5 0 - 5 3 , ...................................... 210
John 5: 28, 2 9 , ................................................ 234
“ 6 : 3 9 , 4 0 , ...................................... 241
“ 11: 2 1 - 2 6 ,............................................... 246
Acts 2 : 2 9 - 3 5 , ...................................... 249
“ 24: 14, 1 5 , ............................................... 251
Romans 8: 10,11, . . . . 255
“ “ 22,23, - - - - ' - 258
2 Cor. 5: 2 - 4 , ..............................................259
“ “ 1 0 , ...............................................262
1 Thes. 4: 1 3 -1 7 ,.............................................264
Philip. 3 : 2 1 , ..................................................270
2 Tim. 2: 1 6 -1 9 ,..............................................272
C hapter IX.—The Resurrection viewed in connexion with the
Judgment, . . . . . . . 274
Chapter X.—The First Resurrection and the Judgmentof the Dead, 300
Rev. 20 : 4 - 6 , ...................................... 304
« •• 1 1 - 1 5 , ..........................................316
Chapter XI.—“ The Times of the Restitution of all Things,” - 348
Acts 3: 1 9 - 2 1 , ..........................................349
Chapter XII.—Christ’s “ Delivering up the Kingdom," - - 365
" 1 Cor, 15 : 2 4 - 2 8 , ...................................... 367
Chapter XIII.—The Conclusion, . . . . . 385
yGoogle
A N A S T A S I S ;
OR
T H E D O C T R IN E OF T H E RESURRECTION, &c.
INTRODUCTION.
T h e Knowledge of Revelation Progressive.
T h e proposition which is virtually embodied in the head­
ing o f th e presen t section, flows by natural sequence from the
general a n d universally admitted truth, that the human race
itself is progressive, not merely in physical continuity, but
in m en tal development. That our collective humanity,
like e a c h individual that composes it, passes through a child­
hood, a y o u th , and a meridian manhood, can scarcely be a
q u estio n w ith any one who casts his eye at the page of his­
tory o r th e universal analogies of nature. We should be far
from d o in g violence to truth, should we slightly alter the
poetic aphorism , and read—“ Progress is heaven’s first
law.” I f so, the thesis may stand unassailable, that the
know ledge o f Revelation, like that of Nature, is destined to
be co n tin u ally on the advance. So far as the latter is con­
cern ed it w ill not be denied by the reflecting mind, that
even a t th is period of the world man has arrived but at the
th resh o ld o f that august temple of Truth into which he is
called to enter, and to become a worshipper at its inmost
shrines. H e is now in the scene of his pupilage—in the
low est form s of that school in which he has been set to learn
the le sso n s o f the universe.
f 2
y G o o g k
1 4 INTRODUCTION.
In this capacity he has two great volumes placed before
him which are to be the theme of his perpetual pondering—the
volume of Nature and the volume of Revelation. In regard
to both these volumes we know not how to resist the belief
that the same great law holds good, viz. of gradual develop­
ment. No one can entertain a doubt that it has thus far
been by slow and toilsome steps, that natural science has
achieved its triumphs. The arcana of creation have hitherto
been laid open fact by fact, and principle by principle.
Ages elapsed before even the true method of prosecuting
physical inquiries was fixed by the genius of the immortal
author of the Organon. And at the present day Geology,
for instance, is but just beginning to unwrap the bandages
which have swathed for countless centuries the mummy
globe which we inhabit. And so in every other field of the
naturalist’s investigations the process of discovery has been
alike tardy and gradational. Who can question that the
most advanced outposts of the territory conquered by the
science of this generation, will have dwindled and become
scarcely perceptible to the retroverted eye of the philosopher
of 1944?
If such then be the case with the book of Nature, is
there any reason to doubt that the same law obtains in re­
gard to the book of Revelation ? Is there the least ground
for surprise or offence at the intimation, that there may
be new discoveries in Revelation, as well as in physical
science?—that the diligent study of the sacred volume may
open new and unexpected views of truth leading to the
most momentous Tesults? There is doubtless a strong
predisposition in pious minds to rest in the persuasion, that
all the important truths of Revelation have been long since
ascertained and fixed, at least in their grand outline. It
will perhaps be admitted that its doctrines and disclosures
may be more clearly and accurately defined in detail—that
the different parts of the great scheme may be more nicely
discriminated, balanced, and adjusted—that its separate dis-
INTRODUCTION. 1 5
tinguisbing features may be brought out in bolder relief,
and their various relations and consequences more dis­
tinctly exhibited. But still it is supposed that the system
as a whole is well settled and incapable of extending its
bounds. The mass of Christians probably look upon the
progress of Truth somewhat as they do upon that of a con­
quering power, like that of Israel in Canaan, which has
completely overrun the limits of the invaded country, and
attained the ne plus ultra of territorial acquisition, but
which yet has a good deal to do within those limits in
achieving an entire subjugation, and in parcelling out the
region under the new regime.
Or, to vary our illustration somewhat, the views enter­
tained by many, perhaps by most, of the Christian world, on
the subject of Revelation, are similar to those entertained on
the subject of Geography. We are conscious to ourselves
of understanding the general form, dimensions, and divi­
sions of the earth. Its great continents and oceans— its
mountains, rivers, and islands—are all mapped out to our
mind’s eye. And so also of its political distributions into
empires and states. We feel entirely assured of having
mastered— of having brought within our mental ken—all
the grander features of the globe which we inhabit. And
if the question were asked what farther knowledge we ex­
pect to acquire on this subject, we should at once reply,
that our acquaintance with particular regions—their local
aspect— their peculiarities of soil, production, and climate
—the manners and customs of the races that inhabit them—
may be indefinitely increased. So in the field before us,
we admit the possibility of a greater amount of information
as to the particulars of revealed truth—the clearing up of
certain verbal difficulties and obscurities in the sacred text—
and the happier illustration of certain passages from the
manners and usages of Oriental life—while at the same
time we no more look for any farther grand and momentous
Digitized by Google
16 INTRODUCTION.
disclosures than we do for the discovery of a third continent
of equal dimensions with the eastern or western.
This we believe may be safely affirmed to be the prevailing
impression and attitude of the Christian mind throughout
the world, and we would by no means intimate that there is
not a substantial truth involved in this view of the subject.
There are doubtless certain great fundamental and para- '
mount facts in revelation which lie open on its very face,
and beyond which we cannot possibly anticipate any higher
or ulterior disclosures. Who, for instance, could think for
a moment of educing from the pages of revelation any
truth to be set by the side of the sublime central fact of the
atoning work of Jesus Christ in the matter of man’s salva­
tion ? This constitutes the very core of all inspired truth im­
parted by God to man, and neither time nor eternity will
develope any thing to supersede or equal it. So, again, as
to the great system of moral duties—the code of ethical
precepts designed to govern the intercourse of men in their
relations with each other—we have no reason to suppose it
ever will or can be improved upon, or that any discoveries
will ever be made that shall supersede, vacate, or alter its
imperative claims. In whatever other department of re­
vealed truth we may^look for advances to be made, we anti­
cipate none here. It will never be any more or any less
clearly our duty than it now is to love God with all our hearts,
and our neighbor as ourselves, and to do to others as we
would that they should do to us. *
But while we hold this as an impregnable and indis­
pensable position, we do not hesitate at the same time
to affirm, that many things connected with this mediatorial
scheme—many things in its sanctions, many things in its
typical shadows, many things in its predicted issues— do
admit of, and will doubtless eventually receive, a vastly fuller
and clearer exposition than has yet been afforded to the
world. And, in reference to the discussion upon which we
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 1 7
have entered in the present volume, we cannot but very sen­
sibly feel that we shall labor in vain to commend to our read­
ers’ assent the views advanced, so long as the impression is
dominant in their minds that the ultimatum of inspired truth
has already been attained, and that scarcely any thing
new is to be expected in scriptural elucidations. On this
point we confess to an extreme anxiety to make our readers
partakers of our own convictions. We perceive clearly that
in the course of our ensuing investigations we shall be obliged
to draw largely on any concessions which they may see fit
to grant in the outset, that biblical science, like all other
sciences, is progressive; and what conception can we form
of progress in this department which does not modify, and
in some cases perhaps supersede established ideas 1
We repeat, then, our main position, that our knowledge
ofthe contents of revelation is destined to be progressive ; and
in support of this position we certainly have the advantage
of the argument drawn from the general analogy of Nature
and of Providence. Throughout the whole range of crea­
tion we recognize the perpetual presence and operation of
this gTeat law. The principle of progressive advance from
the imperfect to the finished—from the rude to the refined
— from the infantile to the mature— from primordial
elements to elaborate formations—from tender germs to
ripened fruits—from initial workings to ultimate consumma­
tions—is every where apparent; and why should it not hold
here also 1 If progress is heaven’s law in every other sphere
of observation, the presumption certainly is that there is no
exception here; and we are at liberty to affirm the fact,
unless some adequate reason can be previously assigned for .
questioning or denying it. But we appeal to positive proof
of the point which we have assumed, and advert—
I. T o the fact of actual confessed obscurities remaining
at this day in the word of God, after all the efforts that have
been made to remove them. Is any thing more obvious than
that multitudes of such obscurities occur throughout the
yGoogk
18 INTRODUCTION.
pages of holy writ ? Have we not often had occasion to
complain of them, and to exclaim, “ O for some Daniel—
some dissolver of doubts and shower of hard sentences—to
unriddle the intractable enigmas!” Does not the most
casual perusal discover phrases and passages, paragraphs and
sections, which to the mass of readers are shrouded in a veil
of triple darkness T This, we admit, is more particularly
true of the prophetical writings, to which, from their nature,
a greater degree of obscurity attaches than to any other por­
tion of the sacred volume. But the characteristic of which
we speak is not confined to the prophecies. In the histor­
ical, poetical, typical, and even the preceptive parts, we
continually encounter passages which baffle our utmost
powers of apprehension.
It is indeed true that in all matters of vital importance
—in all points involving the fundamentals of a commanded
faith—the pages of the Old and New Testaments are distin­
guished by a sun-like lucidness, so that it is no less truly
than tritely said, that “ he that runneth may read,” and
“ the wayfaring man, though a fool, need not err therein.”
Were it otherwise, in fact, the very end of bestowing a
revelation would be defeated, and the term itself become a
misnomer; for surely a revelation not intelligible, would
be no revelation at all. But notwithstanding the homage
thus paid to the inspired oracles in this acknowledgment, it
is vain to deny that vast obscurity does rest upon certain
portions of the book of God. Chapter after chapter pre­
sents to multitudes of readers little else than a mere
dead letter. They may perhaps glean a consistent and use­
ful sense from detached texts and single expressions, yet as
to mastering the general drift and argument of the whole—
seeing the logical connexion of the different parts—and
eliciting a clear, well-compacted, and satisfactory meaning
from the writer’s language—in this they are obliged to con­
fess themselves sadly at fault ,* and if asked, as Philip
asked the Ethiopian eunuch, “ Understandest thou what
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 1 9
thou readest ?” would be constrained to return the
eunuch’s answer, “ How can I, except some one should
guide me?”
Now we propose the question; whether it is. probable
that these obscurities will always remain to cloud the lustre
of the word of God ? Is there not every reason to suppose
that these dark places will be eventually cleared up to the
entire satisfaction of every mind that is covetous of the
truth ? If it were not so, would it not be in contravention
of the highest conceptions we can form of the character of
God and of the whole analogy of his providence ? Can we
divest ourselves of the impression, that there is something
derogatory to the wisdom and goodness of God in the idea,
that perpetual shades are to rest upon large portions of the
lively oracles, making them a complete terra incognita
even to the most ardent explorers in this region of inquiry ?
Has he filled so large a portion of his word with matter
calculated merely to defy curiosity—to mock research— and
to disappoint hope ? To an enlightened mind there is
something unwelcome and repulsive in the thought, that
even any portion of the earth’s surface should remain in­
accessible to the enterprise of travellers and voyagers. We
do not love to think that mountainous masses of ice shall
ahoays frown defiance upon the hardy navigator who would
urge his way through the perils of arctic seas to the very
points of the poles. We cannot sit down with perfect com­
posure under the belief that the interior of our globe shall
never be more fally known, and the great problems of geology
remain for ever unsolved. As religious men, we have a
deep interest in the development of the mysteries of nature;
for the more that is known of the works of God, the larger
is the provision made for the nourishment of devout and
pious sentiments in the heart. It is utterly beyond the
power of words “ to wield the matter ” how much piety
would lose were science to be extinguished.
But if, as the Psalmist tells us, God has “ magnified his
yGoogk
2 0 INTRODUCTION.
word above all his name,” can we suppose that the myste­
ries couched in it shall never be solved 7 Is not the glory
of its Author as much concerned in the development of
the treasures of revealed truth, as in the illustration of the
hidden things of science 7 Are we not conscious of as
strong an inward moral demand that these obscurities shall
be cleared up, as that the secrets of creation shall be dis­
closed 7 But in all the departments ofphysical inquiry the
progress of discovery is continually and rapidly onward;
and we see not therefore why the analogy of Providence
does not favor the position that the development of scrip­
tural truth is also progressive. We know assuredly that
advances have been made in the solution of Scripture mys­
teries and obscurities, and why should they not continue to
be made ? We infer the future from the past. We can
think of no causes that shall arrest the march of clearer and
still clearer elucidation.
But how will this result be brought about 7 Will the
mere progress of time, without human effort or research,
remove the veil from these mysteries 7 Will the discovery
be spontaneous 7 Will the truth utter itself without being
interrogated 7 Might we not as soon expect the echo to
speak without being awakened 7 Has physical truth ever
thus shaken off its own envelope, and stood forth self-
revealed to the gaze and the embrace of its votaries?
Does Time alone command Nature to disclose her secrets,
and does she obey? Has the chemist ever dreamed that he
might lay aside his crucible and blow-pipe, and sit down
with folded arms and wait for the solid substances to resolve
themselves into gases, before he could determine their com­
position 7 Would not the geologist as soon expect that the
huge mastodons and monsters of a former world should start
forth in living forms from their sleep of ages, and again
stalk abroad over the earth, as that their skeleton remains
should be discovered without digging 7 Should we have
now heen transported as on the wings of the wind in passing
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 31
from place to place, had there been no experiments made on
the power of steam, and no skill attained in the construc­
tion of machinery ? Every thing thus far in the progress of
human improvement has been the result of patient and
long-continued study—of elaborate and oil-repeated experi­
ments.
Why, then, should not the case be the same in the de­
partment of revelation ? Can any sufficient reason be
assigned why the law of progress which obtains in every
thing else should not hold here also ? Why should not our
attainments in sacred science depend upon the same con­
ditions with those of physical science—to wit, the diligent
and faithful application of the appropriate means for com­
passing the ends of our inquiries ? Have we, then, at this
day, any signal advantage on the score of means to warrant
us in the hope of attaining results beyond the measure of
our fathers in the field of biblical research 1 Let us look
for a moment, in the second place, at this question.
n . The volume of revelation comes to us clothed in the
drapery of a foreign and a dead language— a language spoken
in a remote age of the world, and of which we have but few
monuments, so far at least as the Hebrew is concerned,
except the Scriptures themselves. It is obvious that we
understand the record only so far as we understand the lan­
guage in which it is written. But the means of understand­
ing the language are constantly multiplying upon us at this
day, far beyond any thing enjoyed by our predecessors.
Grammarians, lexicographers, and critics are putting into
our hands the key to unlock the treasures of Oriental philol­
ogy ; travellers and missionaries to the East are making us
familiar with the manners and customs, the monuments and
traditions, the arts, sciences, and modes of speech, which
suggest and explain so many of the allusions in the sacred
text. Add to this the signal advances made in latter times
in the principles of biblical interpretation—a department
which, under the title of Hermeneutics, and having for its
2*
yGoogk
2a INTRODUCTION.
object the ascertainment and the application of the true
canons of interpretation in their reference to the sacred
writings—is rapidly elevating itself to a high place in the
circle of positive sciences. Minds of the first order in onr
own and other countries are incessantly engaged in settling
upon an immovable basis the fundamental rules by which
the sense of the sacred record is to be determined; and
it is every day more and more obvious that philology is
giving laws to theology. Is it any arrogance in us, there­
fore—is it any disparagement to our fathers—to lay claim
to those superior advantages for illustrating Scripture which
Providence has thrown in our way? Is it a claim which
ought to incur the least degree of odium towards those
who modestly make it ? The truth is, new light is forced
upon us by the very spirit of the age, and we cannot resist
it if we would. The spirit of investigation is not, and will
not be, confined to the departments of physical or meta­
physical science. No narrow minded taboo, in any part of
the wide field of inquiry, will be brooked in this age of un­
shackled research; and it is utterly in vain to expect any
exemption for the sacred volume from this searching and
most inquisitorial scrutiny. We may dread the keen en­
counter as the lifting up of axes against the carved work
of the sanctuary, but it cannot be avoided. Men will in­
quire, investigate, sift, weigh, and reason in a matter that
concerns them so nearly as a revelation from God. They
will compare its averments with what they know of its author
from other sources—from his works, from his providence,
from the inward promptings of their own minds ; and it is
to be remembered that they will come to the, investigation
of scriptural truth with the same habits of close and accu­
rate analysis which are acquired in scientific inductions.
If there is strictness in the one department, there will not
be looseness in the other. And no one can question that
there is at this day a sterner demand for evidence—a greater
impatience of mere traditionary authority—a more rigid
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 23
requisition for positive certainty—in all the fields of know­
ledge than ever before. The result of all this, we think,
must be a deeper insight into the interior soul of revelation,
and a more luminous apocalypse of its shrouded mysteries.
And in this connexion we cannot forbear to adduce the
authority of such a name as that of Bacon, the father if not
ofphilosophy, at least of philosophizing. “ Let no man,”
says he, “ taking the credit of a sobriety and moderation ill
applied, think or maintain that men can search too far in
the book of God’s word; but rather let them excite them­
selves to the search and boldly advance in the pursuit of an
endless progress in it; only taking heed lest they apply
their knowledge to arrogance and not to charity; to osten­
tation and not to use.”
These are sentiments worthy the immortal name that
sanctions them, and they must surely find a response in
every bosom in which an enlightened reason has taken up
its abode. But go back in idea two or three centuries, from
the time of Francis Bacon to the age of his predecessor
Roger Bacon, and how different would have been the recep­
tion of such sentiments! Imagine the entrance of a big­
oted devotee of the Romish hierarchy into the laboratory
of the philosopher, while employed in the midst of his cruci­
bles and retorts and other scientific implements. We can
easily picture to ourselves the sinister and lowering expres­
sion stamped upon the brow of the minion of the mass, as
he gazes upon the strange apparatus before him. We see
him looking upon the glowing crucible with its fused con­
tents as he would upon a witch’s caldron burning with red,
blue, and yellow flames, and filled with incantations for
holding unhallowed converse with.the world of spirits. We
can easily imagine, moreover, that he might, in the plenitude
of his zeal for the interests of religion and the glory of
God, give a significant hint to the philosopher of the thun­
ders of the Vatican and the lightnings of the Inquisition.
But what would the intrepid student of nature say, in reply
yGoogk
24 INTHODUCTION.
to these ominous givings-out of the son of the church?
"Would he not stand erect in the conscious dignity of reason
and truth, and say, that the universe was made to be known,
and the human faculties given by which to know it. And
why, we would ask, may we not say the same of revelation?
Was it not given to be understood? And is there any
more harm in the theologian’s interrogating Scripture, than
in the chemist’s, the geologist’s, and the astronomer’s inter­
rogating nature?
It is indeed true that there exists a deep-rooted impres­
sion that it is only with the plainer parts of revelation that
w e. can profitably have to do—that the unknown, when
brought to light, may possibly in some way conflict with the
known—and that, especially, the prophetic parts ofthe Bible
were designedly sealed and shut up from human intelli­
gence ; so that it is nothing short of positive presumption to
attempt to penetrate and solve their profound problems. We
look upon them as if they were the mystical thunders whose
utterances the prophet was commanded to seal up and not
make known; or perhaps like the revelations which Paul
had in heaven, and which it was not lawful to utter. Nay,
nothing is more natural than to associate the ideas, if not
the epithets, of fanciful—chimerical— visionary—with any
attempt, however sober, to pierce the veil of futurity. So
that it is not to be wondered at that hundreds of inquiring
spirits have been frowned and frightened away from this
sphere of inquiry by the force of prejudices wholly baseless
and unreasonable. Under these circumstances it cannot be
gratuitous to endeavor by all means to remove preposses­
sions so adverse to the interests both of reason and religion.
And there is, if we mistake not, at this day a state of
things in the general mind of Christendom, which impe­
riously demands such an investigation into the contents of
revelation, and into the very principles on which it is con­
structed, as we now propose to make. However tranquil
may be our own repose upon the pillow of our faith, that of
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 25
thousands of others is disturbed -and agitated by the intru­
sion of doubts that rush in upon them like an army of grim
spectres. These harassing inroads are not always the off­
spring of an infidel skepticism, nor do they avail to shake the
general belief in the truth of the Scriptures as a revelation
from God. But they trouble the spirit—they are distressing,
because they come in the semblance of reasonable doubts—
doubts founded upon a reasonable philosophy, the conclu­
sions of which the mind does not know how to resist; and
therefore it would be very wrong to charge them to the
account of a moral obliquity, or aversion to the truth, or to
a morbid propensity to vain speculation. They are doubts
and difficulties entertained by minds which cherish the pro-
foundest respect for the sacred volume, and it is precisely
because they do cherish these sentiments towards it, that they
are so disturbed by the apparent conflict between its state­
ments and those convictions which they receive, and cannot
but receive, both from the intuitions of their own spirits and
the decisive results of scientific research. If they could
give up the oracles of Scripture, they would make short work
with their misgivings, and extinguish them at a stroke; but
this they cannot do. That holy book has taken such a hold
of the very central persuasions of their souls, and has so
intrenched itself in the innermost folds of their feelings,
that it is the sundering of vital ties to think of renouncing it,
and launching out without its guidance into the boundless
deep of human conjecture. Hence the mental struggle of
which we speak.
Now, we repeat, it would be doing the grossest injus­
tice to multitudes of minds in this state to recognize in these
inward waverings and agitations merely the repugnance of
unsanctified nature to yield implicit obedience to divine
authority. Does divine authority require a blind deference,
an unintelligent assent, to its dicta, merely because they
emanate from the supreme will in the universe? Does not
God deal with men as men, and is not reason a constituent
yGoogk
26 INTRODUCTION.
part of man’s nature, which in no circumstances he can be
called to forego? Does not the Most High himself make
his appeal to this principle when he says, “ Come, let us
reason together” ? And how far does any man’s religion
differ from enthusiasm that is not regulated by the balance-
wheel of a sound and enlightened reason ?
The truth is, as the human mind is constituted, it is
utterly impossible to refrain from asking the questions to
which we have referred, and which bear upon the apparent
conflict between the revelations of Scripture and the revelar
tions of science. If, for instance, the obvious literal and
grammatical sense of the sacred record leads me to believe
that the material globe, with the various orders of its inhab­
itants, was first spoken into existence six thousand years
ago, and geology at the same time brings to my mind abso­
lute demonstrations, which I cannot possibly resist without
doing violence to the fundamental laws of belief, that it has
existed thousands and myriads of years before that time,
what am I to think? I am brought to a stand at once. I
must pause and ponder on this discrepancy. I must cast
about for some adequate mode of harmonizing these various
views. What will it avail to tell me, when I am assured to
the contrary, that, as geology is merely in its infancy, its
asserted results are not to be depended upon, and that it is
altogether too early to build such sweeping conclusions upon
such a slender induction of facts. I know that this is what
no one will affirm who is acquainted with the facts. And
what should we think of the asseverations of a stage-diiver
who should affirm, in opposition to Lyell, or Silliman, or
Hitchcock, that he had travelled for years over a particular
section of country, and had never seen the least evidence of
such strata and formations as the geologists affirmed to exist
there ?
But, if the facts are such as the science maintains, then
I am necessarily driven upon some mode of accounting for
them in accordance with the statements of holy w rit; for,
yGoogk
' INTRODUCTION. 27
as the same God is the author of creation and of revelation,
it is impossible that the teachings of the one, rightly under­
stood, should conflict with those of the other. In this at­
tempt to reconcile the two I may not perhaps be at once
successful. I may possibly at first adopt a theory which I
may be subsequently compelled to abandon. But I will still
hold with tenacious grasp upon the intrinsic truth of the
two records, assured that in some way or other the desired
light will shine upon the subject, and effectually remove all
its uncertainties and difficulties.
W e may well tremble for the citadel of our faith if the
issues and conclusions of physical philosophy are to be ar­
rayed against the letter of revelation and no effort is made
to bring them to a tally. It is undeniable that the induc­
tions of a true science carry with them an irresistible, an
overwhelming, authority to the human mind. We cannot
gainsay them; and if the apprehended sense of holy writ
appears to the man of science to be opposed to these con­
clusions—if he finds the statements of the sacred writers on
physical subjects so utterly impracticable and unyielding
that by no process can he bring them to agree with the plain
facts and the inevitable inferences of his philosophy—let no
one be surprised to find the authority of revelation giving
way before the authority of reason. We do not say that this
ought to be the case, but we do say that it will be; and minds
of the first order will be thrown off into the dreary regions of
blank theism. The pickaxe and the spade of the geologist
will undermine the substructions of his own faith, and the
records of revelation will be to him merely the superficial
inscription, like that on the pHlar of Pharos, which will dis­
appear under the crumbling touch of time, while the irre­
fragable and eternal truth will loom out to his view in the
relics of beasts, birds, fishes, and plants, which medallion
the rocky strata of the earth, and chronicle the lapse of un­
told ages before the era of Genesis.
As it would seem, then, that the moral exigencies of the
yGoogk
28 INTRODUCTION.
human mind at this day demand a fuller development of the
character of revelation in its relations to general truth, so
we cannot doubt that the progress of scientific discovery is
destined to afford the means of clearly defining the prin­
ciples on which the inspired oracles are to be interpreted,
in those portions of them which relate to scientific subjects.
The grand desideratum has hitherto been in fixing the pre­
cise boundaries of the region which revelation claims to
occupy as appropriately its own—the limits within which it
professes to speak with a voice supremely authoritative and
absolutely infallible. It has been deemed in former ages
that the plain and literal averments of holy writ, on any and
every subject, were to be considered as an infallible crite­
rion of truth, and that it was a culpable presumption to think
of appealing to any other. The natural consequence of this
has been, that the progress of physical science has had to
encounter, at almost every stage, the opposition of those who
have feared that the credit of the Scriptures might be endan­
gered if the claims of philosophy should be conceded. While
we must honor the loyalty to revelation that has been evinced
in this pious sensitiveness to every thing that seemed to come
in conflict with its statements, we cannot at the same time
but be pained and surprised at the tardy process by which
the conclusion has been arrived at, that the grand scope of
the Bible is moral, and not scientific, and that no important
interest of revelation is jeoparded, by admitting that, on
a multitude of subjects which come within the range of
man’s unassisted powers, the Spirit of inspiration professes
nothing more than to speak according to visible appearances
and popular notions. This fact is now beginning to be very
generally recognized, and no enlightened mind dreams that
what is gained to science is necessarily lost to Scripture.
Still we have no idea that the extent to which this principle
is to be applied is at this day at all adequately appreciated,
and therefore we shall not be in the least surprised if the
present attempt to make the ascertained results of physi-
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. 29
obgy a test by which to try many of the literal declarations
of the sacred writers, should be regarded as a bold and haz­
ardous coming in collision with its sacred verities. But, as
we have well pondered the ground on which we adventure
to tread, we advance with great confidence to our conclu­
sions, and shall tranquilly abide the issue. It is possible,
indeed, that we may have erred in the specific results which
we announce, and if so, this may be shown on satisfactory
grounds; but we have no'fear of being convicted, before
an enlightened tribunal, of having periled the weal of the
sacred oracles by the advocacy of a false principle of inter­
pretation. We cannot conceive that the homage due to a
revelation from God requires us to forego the inevitable de­
ductions of that reason with which he has endowed us, nor
do we think it possible that that word will ever achieve its
predicted triumphs over the human mind till its teachings,
on all points that come within the sphere of a true philos­
ophy, shall be seen to harmonize with its legitimate deduc­
tions. This, however, will still leave a hallowed province of
purely moral announcements, in which revelation utters its
oracles as speaking out of an eternal silence which no voice
of reason could ever break.
yGoogk
P A R T I .
CHAPTER 1.
The Argumentfrom Reason.
If the position maintained in our preceding pages be
well founded— that there is to be an onward progress in our
knowledge of Revelation, as there confessedly is in the
knowledge of Nature—it follows, of course, that we have no
more reason to be surprised at the announcement, we will not
say of new truths, but of new views o f old truths, in biblical
science, than at the announcement of new discoveries in
physical science. There may be a difference of opinion as
to the possible extent of this progress, but none, we think, as
to the fact itself. It is impossible to assign a reason why
the outgoings of the human intellect should confine them­
selves to the limits of purely scientific research. They will
certainly aim, at least, to penetrate the central abysses of
Revelation.
In the number of those themes which invite the most
profound inquiry, there is one on which, of all others, we
look with the most anxious and yearning solicitude, longing
for light as they that watch for the morning. It is a theme,
in regard to which the posture of thousands of human
spirits is that of seekers and suitors surrounding an oTacle,
standing as with bowed heads and hands folded on the
bosom, silently, reverently, but most earnestly, awaiting the
awful response. We allude to the mode o f our existence in
another world; to the form and conditions of being to which
yGoogk
32 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
we are introduced through the mysterious gateway of death.
This is the grand question of questions to every self-conscious
and reflecting mind. “ If a man die, shall he live again?”
From the inmost depths of his spirit he cannot but send
forth the anxious interrogation, “ What am I to be—where,
am I to be—when this mortal coil is shuifled off?” Is there
any thing in reason or in revelation that will solve for us the
momentous problem ? The most casual inspection of the
inspired pages does indeed certify us of the fa ct of a con­
tinued existence; but nothing is said, except in the most
general terms, of the mode. We have the assurance of
entering at death upon an eternal state of retribution, accord­
ing to the moral character formed in the present life; but no
answer is returned to the solemn questionings which would
fain elicit the realities of that trans-sepulchral world. The
great truths concerning that world have, from age to age,
been received by faith. By faith have multitudes in all gen­
erations entered upon it. In thousands and millions of
instances has the believing soul entered the dark domains
of the grave, buoyed up by the sustaining assurances
of the Gospel, that whether in life or in death it shall “ go
well with the righteous.” We cannot question, for a mo­
ment, that this is practically an amply sufficing support, and
that we have ground for everlasting gratitude on this score,
even if we should never know, with any more certainty than
we now do, the secrets of that unexplored region, till we
each enter it for ourselves. Still we cannot but tremulously
inquire. It is impossible but that the restless reason of
man should urge its researches in this direction. It cannot
abide contented, while no answer is returned to the queries
which are prompted by the laws and impulses of its own
essential nature. If it fails to read in the record of inspira­
tion a satisfactory solution of its doubts, it will put nature
to the rack, and endeavor to extort the secret of its teach­
ings on this absorbing theme. It will dive into the depths
of physiology and psychology, and learn if any th in / is
yGoogk
THE ARGUMENT FROM REASON. 33
taught by the laws of our physical or mental organization,
which can throw the least gleam of light on the mysteries
of life, and the condition of our future being. We see,
beyond question, that in other departments the progress of
scientific truth has enabled us to put a more correct inter­
pretation upon many points of Scripture ; and why is it not
possible it may be so here ? Does any one now think of
understanding the command of Joshua to the sun and moon,
precisely as he would before the true system of astronomy
was ascertained ? Does any one, acquainted with the demon­
strated results of geology, gather precisely the same ideas
from the first chapter of Genesis that he did before that
science was fixed upon its present firm basis ?
If, then, in these departments we are conscious that the
discoveries of science have given us clearer information rela­
tive to the true sense of revelation, why is it not conceivable
that, from the same source, we may obtain a clew to conduct
us somewhat nearer the truth on the great theme before us?
Certainly, the more perfectly we understand the inward
structure and functions of our own frames—the more com­
pletely we become masters of that wondrous economy which
constitutes us what we now are, the nearer doubtless shall
we approach to a knowledge of what we shall hereafter be.
Nothing is better known to intelligent men than that im­
mense advances have actually been made, within the last half
century, in the physiology of the human system; and though
the grand agency by which the animal functions are carried
on has eluded research— the vital principle—yet approxi­
mations have continually been made towards it, and we see
not why we should abandon, as utterly hopeless, the pros­
pect of one day compassing the grand central truth of our
being.
W e can easily conceive that a naturalist, who should never
have seen nor heard of a butterfly, might, upon investigating
the inner structure of the caterpillar, and finding involved
within it the rudiments of another organization, furnished
Digitized by Google
34 TUE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
with a curious apparatus adapted to some other sphere of
existence—that he might form, at least, a very probable con­
jecture as to the mode of being upon which the developed
insect would enter when disengaged from its present grovel­
ling tenement. He would doubtless be at fault as to many
of the details of the future economy of the insect, but he
would still be able to give a very shrewd guess as to the
sphere and the mode of existence into which it should
emerge, and of the general laws by which it should be gov­
erned. In like manner, we see nothing irrational or improb­
able in the idea, that a more intimate knowledge of the
interior elements and functions of our physical and psychical
constitution may finally enable us to educe the paramount
laws of our future being, and bring us to a true ‘ Physical
Theory of another Life.’* The mere fact that any truth,
however mysterious, is a truth of revelation, does not prevent
its being at the same time a truth of nature, and amenable
to its laws. A revealed fact, which is at one age of the
world received simply by faith, may afterwards become a
fact of the reason—something which we know as well as
believe. We see, therefore, no special grounds, from the
peculiar sanctity of the themes of revelation, to forego the
most rigid researches into their nature, or for being alarmed
at the thought of bringing them more and more within the
* The work bearing this title, which has fallen into my hands since
the major part of the present volume was written, contains a striking
paragraph to the same effect with the above. “ In every case where a
transition from one mode of life to another is to take place, the germs of
the future being are wrapped in the organixation of the present being;
and in everysuch instance a well practised naturalist, in examining it (sup­
posing it to have been hitherto unknown to him) during its initial stage,
would, without hesitation, announce it to have in prospect another and
higher mbde of life ; for he would discern within, or upon it, the symbols
of its destined progression, and he would find in its habitscertain instincts
that have reference to a more perfect manner of existence. Now is it so
with man 1 We have already takes this for granted.” p. 140.
yGoogk
\
limits of our positive cognitions. It is by no means impos­
sible that the most signal miracles on record may ultimately
resolve themselves into the operation of some higher law,
which may never have been previously known except to its
Author. Certain it is, that from that principle of progress
which is so congenial, not to say congenital, to the human
mind, the field of our knowledge must eventually take in an
immensity of subjects which are at present beyond its
sphere.
If, then, we are authorized to anticipate subsidiary light
from this source, in solving the great problem of human ex­
istence in another world, is it not reasonable to expect, that
the gTand cardinal doctrine of the R e s u r r e c t i o n should be
illustrated by the same means 1 This doctrine, constituting
as it does one of the main announcements of Christianity,
and connecting itself with the most sacred hopes of the be­
liever, urges its claims upon our profound attention. It is,
indeed, a doctrine which is seldom interrogated. It is con­
sidered, for the most part, as one of those mysterious dis­
closures which are commended to our naked credence, and
about which we are not to indulge a speculative curiosity or
to ask prying questions. It is supposed, by the mass of
Christians, that we are to regard the Resurrection in no
other light than as a simple fact, the truth of which we are
to receive on the bare authority of the divine word, and the
accomplishment of which we are to expect solely on the-
ground of the divine omnipotence. But is there, indeed,
any interdict laid upon inquiry in this department rather
than any other 1 Is the subject fenced about with a balus-
trading of sanctity, which it-is sacrilege or profanation to
attempt to pass through ? Must we not, necessarily, submit
every position propounded in revelation to that intelligence
by which alone we can understand it? Understand, it, we
say—for we must understand it, in order to believe it. Let us
here be apprehended aright. We say that we must understand
a proposition, in order to believe it. We may not, indeed,
THE ARGUMENT FROM REASON. 3 6
Digitized by Googk
36 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
understand the mode in which the asserted truth or fact
exists; but the verbal proposition affirming it we must under­
stand, or we cannot believe it. That all material bodies
gravitate to the earth, is a fact the mode of which I do not
by any means comprehend; but I have no difficulty in under­
standing the proposition which affirms the fact. So, that
God is three in one sense, and one in another, is a proposi­
tion that comes at once within the grasp of my intellect,
though my utmost endeavors to conceive of the mode of this
existence are completely baffled. In like manner, we do not
hesitate to assert, that although it may not be possible to
comprehend the mode in which the resurrection of the body
may be brought about, yet I must understand the terms in
which the doctrine is announced. In other words, I must be
able to affix an intelligible sense to the language employed
for that purpose. Yet here is precisely the difficulty in re­
gard to the doctrine as popularly held. We ask for a plain
and explicit statement of the doctrine. What is the propo­
sition, the belief of which will constitute me a believer in
the doctrine of the resurrection of the body ? To one who
has not particularly reflected upon the subject, it might
seem that there were no special difficulty on this score; but
a closer consideration will probably reveal to multitudes of
minds the vagueness and obscurity of their previous con­
ceptions.
Should it be replied, in general terms, to our question,
that the truth claiming credence is, that the body which
we consign to the dust is again to be raised and reanimated
at some future day ; we rejoin at once, that this reply does
not cover the ground of the difficulty. The simple asser­
tion that the dead body is to be raised does not constitute
an intelligible proposition, for the reasoD that it leaves it
utterly uncertain what body is meant. A resurrection
is indeed predicated of a body, but this is a very different
thing from the resurrection of the body, and our inquiry
cannot possibly be satisfied without a more minute spe-
yGoogk
TUX A M tM S N T FXDM BBASON. 8 7
eification. N o fact in physiological science is better
ascertained, than that the human body, in regard to its
constituent particles, is in a state of constant flux. It
is perpetually undergoing a process of waste and repar­
ation. Strictly speaking, no man has the same body now
that he had seven years ago, as it is in about this period
that a complete change is held to take place in the bodily
structure, by which we may be said to be corporeally reno­
vated. This is a fact established by physiology, and the
proof of it, we believe, is entirely beyond question, and
must form an indispensable element in any judgment which
we pronounce upon the subject. The phrase, the body,
does not accurately represent the object intended, if the idea
conveyed by it be restricted to the body as existing at any
one moment. The idea of existence in continuity is indis­
pensable to it. The question then again recurs—What
body is to be raised ! A person who dies at the age of
seventy has had ten different bodies. Which of these is to
be the body of the resurrection 1 Is it the body of infancy,
of childhood, of youth, of manhood, or of old age ? Or is it
the aggregate of all these 1 If we go back to the days of
the Antediluvians and apportion the number of the bodies of
Methusaleh, for instance, to the length of his life, and then
suppose the whole to be collected into one vast corporeity,
we should indeed be reminded that, as “ there were giants
in those days,” so there will be giants in the day of the
resurrection!
It is obvious that a very grave difficulty from this source
pertains to the prevalent theory of the resurrection of the
body, and one which we discover no mode of obviating on
that theory. In the following extracts from “ Pearson on
the Creed,” whose statements of doctrine are for the most
part singularly luminous, and who has, perhaps, enunciated
this doctrine with more explicitness than almost any other
writer, it will be seen that his explanation goes throughout
upon a basis that fails to recognize entirely any such prin-
3
yGoogk
3 8 TBH DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
ciple of incessant change in the bodily structure as a sound
physiology forces us to admit. Whether he was not aware
of the fact in question, or did not duly appreciate its bear­
ings upon the grand point in debate, we know not; but it
obviously leaves the doctrine open to the full force of an
objection, which, as it could not be expected to have oc­
curred to the ancient fathers of the church, would neither
be likely to have arrayed itself before the mind of one who
was principally occupied in embodying their opinions on the
various articles of the Christian creed. “ That the same
body, not any other, shall be raised to life, which died;
that the same flesh which was separated from the soul at
the day of death shall be united to the soul at the last day ;
that the same tabernacle which was dissolved shall be raised
up again; that the same temple which was destroyed shall
be rebuilt, is most apparent out of the same word, most evi­
dent upon the same grounds upon which we believe there
shall be any resurrection.” (Art. xi. p. 566.) So again,
in a subsequent paragraph : “ We can therefore no otherwise
expound this article, teaching the resurrection o f the body,
than by asserting that the bodies which have lived and died
shall live again after death, and that the same flesh which
is corrupted shall be restored; whatsoever alteration shall
be made shall not be of their nature, but of their condition;
not of their substance, but of their qualities.” So in va­
rious other passages he reiterates again and again the asser­
tion, that it is the same body that died that is to be raised,
and even intimates that this identity is essentially involved
in the very term resurrection: “ So that, when I say there
shall be a resurrection of the dead, I must intend thus much,
that the bodies of men which live and are dead shall revive
and rise again. For at the death of man nothing falleth but
his body, ‘ the spirit goeth upward,’ and no other body
falleth but his own; and therefore the body, and no other
but that body, must rise again to make a resurrection. If
we look upon it under the notion of reviviscency, which
Digitized by Google
THE ARGUMENT FROM REASON. 3 9
is more ordinary in the Hebrew language, it proves as much,
for nothing properly dieth but the body; the soul cannot
be killed; and nothing can revive but that which dieth.
Or, to speak more punctually, the man falleth not in respect
ofhis spirit, but of his flesh ; and therefore he cannot be said
to rise again but in respect of his flesh which fell: man
dieth not in reference to his soul, which is immortal, but
his body; and therefore he cannot be said to revive but in
reference to his body before deprived of life; and because
no other flesh fell at his death, no other body died but his
own, therefore he cannot rise again but in his own flesh, he
cannot revive again but in his own body.” (Art. xi. p. 568.)
In all this it is palpable that no regard is had to the phys­
iological objection which we are urging, and which is alto­
gether of too serious a nature to be overlooked in any formal
statement of the doctrine; yet the able and excellent bishop
now quoted tells us that from this “ we may easily perceive
what every naan is obliged to believe, and understood to pro­
fess, when he confesseth a belief of the resurrection of the
body; for thereby he is conceived to declare thus much : I
am fully persuaded of this as of a most necessary and infal­
lible truth, that as it is appointed for all men once to die, so
it is also determined that all men shall rise from death; that
the souls separated from our bodies are in the hand of God
and live; that the bodies, dissolved into dust or scattered
into ashes, shall be re-collected in themselves and re-united
to their souls ; that the same flesh which lived before shall
be revived ; that the same numerical bodies which did fall
shall rise ; that the resuscitation shall be universal, no man
excepted, no flesh led in the grave ; that all the just shall be
raised to a resurrection of life, and all the unjust to a resur­
rection of damnation; that this shall be performed at the
last day, when the trump shall sound: and thus I ■believe
THE R E SU R R EC TIO N OF TH E BODY.”
But can this be an intelligent belief? What definite
ideas can any man attach to the terms in which the doctrine
yGoogk
40 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
is conveyed ? Can any one believe in opposition to his posi­
tive knowledge ? Now we know that the bodies deposited
in the graves are not the same bodies with those that pre­
viously existed in the order of physical succession. If the
language above quoted be construed in the utmost strictness
of its import, it forces upon us the conclusion, that the idea-
tical body from which the soul took its departure at the hour
of death, is the body the particles of which are to be re­
collected and re-constructed at the era of the resurrection.
But why shall the preference be given to these particular
bodies, when, its is well known, they are often withered and
wasted by consumptions, swollen by dropsies, mangled by
wounds, made hideous by deformities, curtailed of limbs, or
become partially putrid by gangrenes ? If the material par­
ticles of the body are to be reassembled at all, why not rather
suppose that it will be those which composed it in the period
of its prime, in its utmost vigor and beauty l But the truth
js, the whole theory proceeds upon a fundamental fallacy
which a single glance of the mental eye detects. The resur­
rection body is to be a spiritual and not a material body.
The reassemblage of material particles can result only in the
reconstruction of a material body, and a material body can­
not be at the same time spiritual ; at least we may confi­
dently affirm that the same material body cannot be at the
same time spiritual, although we are aware that Paul’s ex­
pression, “ a spiritual body,” is understood by some to
denote a body adapted to spiritual uses, instead of implying
one that is metaphysically spiritual in contradistinction
from material. But, taken in either sense, the assertion
above quoted involves contradictory ideas. A material body
is a body of flesh and blood ; but “ flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of God.”
But, waving all objection on this score, the doctrine of
the resurrection of the same body, in any sense whatever,
encounters difficulties in our view absolutely insuperable,
arising from the changes and new combinations which the
yGoogk
THE ARGUMENT FROM REASON. 41
particles of the dead body undergo in the interval between
death and the resurrection. Who does not know that
the luxuriant vigor and verdure of the wheat crops wav­
ing over the field of Waterloo are owing to a source of
fertility which the Belgic husbandman never conveyed to
the soil ?
Jam seges eat ubi Troja fuit, resecanda {alee,
Luxuriat Phrygio sanguine pinguis humus.
Rich harvests wave where mighty Troy once stood,
Birth of a soil made fat with Phrygian blood.
The putrescent relics of the goodly structure which once en­
shrined a human soul are resolved into the dust of the earth.
The dust springs up in the varied forms of vegetable life.
The beasts of the field crop the grasses and the herbs which
derive their succulence from the constituent materiel of the
bodies of bnried men. Out of these eaters comes forth
sweetness, and the flesh which was fed by.the flesh of the
fathers goes to the sustenance of the flesh of the sons. To
whom shall these particles belong in the day of their final
recall from these varied compositions? Will it not require
the whole vegetable and animal world to be decomposed in
order to extricate the assimilated portions and give to each his
due ? And how can the matter eveT be adjusted ? The par­
ticles that now belong to one body have previously belonged
to some other; whose shall they be in the resurrection?—
as the Sadducees asked respecting the wife of seven hus­
bands. And what shall we say of the case of those who
have fallen victims to the barbarous rage and horrid hanker­
ings of cannibals ? Who shall be the rightful claimants, in
the day of adjudication, when specific particles have been
incorporated by perfect assimilation into two different bodies?
We are aware of the answer which Augustin (De Civit.
Dei, Lib. xxii. c. 20) returns to this form of the objection :
“ The flesh in question shall be restored to the man in whom
it first became human flesh; for it is to be considered as
yGoogk
4 3 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
borrowed by the other man, and, like borrowed money, to
be returned to him from whom it was taken.” But the dif­
ficulty is to find the first proprietor. In the endless cycles
of change it is scarcely more the work of imagination than
of reason to conceive, that a portion of the matter which
once entered into the body of Goliath of Gath may have found
its way into the flesh of Alexander’s horse, Bucephalus, from
which it might be traced till lodged in the person of some
dancing dervish of an eastern city, whirling about in as
many antic gyrations as ever did Bucephalus himself when
attempted to be mounted by any one but his royal rider.
But suppose the sojourning particles to be traced back to
the giant of the Philistines, have we yet reached their ulti­
mate destination? Whence did he obtain them? May
there not have been a prior claimant still ? And may not
his title be challenged by another still prior, and so on indefi­
nitely ? Suppose an individual body at the present day to
consist of a million of particles; what is easier than to con­
ceive that each of these particles was derived from one of a
million of bodies that have lived informer ages? If these
bodies were each to claim its own on the ground of the same
right which the present possessor has to them, what would be
left to him from whence to form a resurrection body ? But
each one of this million of bodies might, perhaps, owe its com­
ponent particles in like manner to as many predecessors; and
we think it a fair question whether, if we were to follow out the
supposition to its legitimate results, it would not compel the
conclusion that the whole human race must be resolved back
into Adam; and every animal, and every vegetable, back
into the first animal and the first plant ever created.
The objection which constitutes the burden of our pre­
sent argument obviously resolves itself into the difficulty of
conceiving of any fixed relation between the body that dies
and the body that is raised. So far as we are able to appre­
hend the prevalent sentiments of the Christian world in
regard to this subject, they suppose that the same body which
Digitized by Google
THE ARGUMENT FROM REASON. 4 8
is consigned to its native dust is at some distant day, and in
some unknown manner, to be raised again and recon­
structed, and the disembodied spirit, after a long exile, to
be restored to its primitive habitation, newly fashioned and
furnished by the hand of Omnipotence. To this view we
urge the objection, that, by the law of the animal economy,
the body in this life is continually changing, and conse­
quently that it conveys no definite conception to the mind
to say that the body will be raised, unless it is clearly speci­
fied what particular body is meant. Nothing is clearer
than that the principle above stated enforces the necessary
admission of a succession of bodies; and if so, we are at lib­
erty to demand which one of the series is to be raised. If a
man retained precisely the same body unchanged from his
natal to his dying day, the difficulty would not be so glaringly
insurmountable; but even in that case, as the resurrection
body is to be a spiritual body, it confounds our faculties to
attempt to imagine of whal use the former material and
fleshly particles are to be in the formation of a purely spir­
itual body. Is it not as easy for Omnipotence to form a
spiritual body entirely new, without reference to any pre­
existing materials, as to elaborate one out of the gross com­
ponent parts of a previous body 7 And is not Mr. Locke’s
remark, in his letter to Stillingfleet, perfectly well founded,
that “ it would be hard to determine, if that were demanded,
what greater congruity the soul hath with any particles of
matter which were once united to it, but are now so no
longer, than it hath with particles of matter that were never
united to it.”
We repeat, then, that the common view of the resurrec­
tion labors, in our opinion, fatally on the score of a conceiv­
able relation between the present and the future body.
Even admitting, as of course we must, that the power of God
is competent to form bodies of the same external configura­
tion but o f more glorious texture, and to unite disembodied
souls with them , still the question forces itself upon us—
yGoogk
4 4 THE DOCTRINE OR T R I RZSSKRBCTION.
What reldtion exists between the original, putrefied, decom­
posed, and dissipated body, and the sublimated, glorious,
incorruptible fabric which is to succeed ;—what the rela­
tion in virtue of which I can call such a body mine, and
say, “ Behold my body raised fVom the tomb and animated
anew V’
We know it is common for poets and poetical declaimers
to gire loose to imagination, and portray a scene whteh
shall work powerfully on' the passions, whale at the same
time it is as far from. scriptural truth as it is from sound
philosophy. Thus, in Young’s poem,1entitled “ The Last
Day,” we hare the germ of a multitude of similar descrip­
tions, which hare been amplified to pages of bomiietic decla­
mation ; as, for instance, in the sermons of Pres. Daries,
and also in one of the eloquent discourses of the Rev. Mr.
Melville of London :—
“ Now monuments prove faithful to their trtfst,
And render back their long committed dust ; (
Now charnels rattle ; scattered limbs, and all .
The various bones, obsequious to the cal}.
Self-moved advance ; the neck perhaps to meet
The distant head ; the distant head the feet.
Dreadful to view,see, through the duskysky,
Fragments of bodies in confusion fly ;
To distant regions journeying, there to elaim
Deserted members and complete the frqme.”
What shall we say to this ? In the view of sober reason
is it any thing but a poet’s dream 1 And what is thé chaff
to the wheat 1 “ He that hath a dream, let him tell a
dream ; and he that hath my word, let him declaré my
word.” Such descriptions wrought into pulpit discourses
can be considered as nothing eise than pulpit rhapsodizing,
by which the cause of truth is any thing but a gainer. But
this is a view of the subject approaching too near to carica­
ture to be admitted as the bonaJide belief of sensible men,
yGoogk
th e AseoMsirr from reason 4 5
and as such entitled to serious refutation, and therefore we
do not dwell upon it.
But waring all that can be justly deemed extravagant in
the prevailing sentiments on the subject, we still find a
large residuum of the improbable and the incredible in that
which is propounded to our reception. Guided by the mere
letter of Scripture, it is common to hear mention made of
the body’s being raised from the grave at the sound of the last
trumpet, and of its coming out of the tomb or the sepulchre
in which it was interred. This we concede is Scripture
language, and the simple use of the ipsissima verba of the
Holy Spirit can never be a ground of censure towards any
man who uses it with pure motives. Still we are at full
liberty to inquire into its meaning, and to institute the most
rigid comparison between the literal averments of holy writ
and the inevitable deductions of our reason founded upon
the ascertained results of science ; nor is it possible that the
import of the inspired' oracles, when rightly understood,
should ever be Snch as to compel us to forego the clear and
legitimate conclusions which are forced upon us by the
just exercise of our rational faculties. The sense, however,
which we are constrained to put upon the letter of the
sacred record may be different from that which is most na­
tively obvious, and such as would never have occurred to us
but from an apparent conflict between the literal interpreta­
tion and the known facts or irresistible inferences derived
from other sources— a j>oint upon which we shall have more
to say in the sequel. In the present instance it is unques­
tionable, that the words quoted from our Saviour’s address
to the Jews do encounter a very formidable difficulty arising
from the indubitable fact, that thousands and millions of hu­
man bodies that were once deposited in graves are not
there now, and never will be again. Their tombs are
cenotaphs, or empty monuments, in every sense of the word.
Where now are the tenants of hundreds of the cemeteries
of Egypt, whose mummy-remains have been from age to age
Digitized by Google
4 6 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
consumed for fuel, or transferred, in the form of medicine,
to the jars upon the apothecaries’ shelves ? They certainly
are no longer to be found in the rocky repositories in which
they were piously bestowed by the hands of survivors.
When our Lord’s language, therefore, is applied to cases
like these, and it is affirmed that these bodies are to be
raised out of their graves at the last day, how is it to be
reconciled with the fact now adverted to? Let it not be
said that this is an infidel objection, prompted by a proud
preference of human reason to the teachings of inspired
wisdom. The question is, Is it a valid objection ? If so,
it is entitled to regard, by whomsoever proposed. Nothing
is gained by blinking or blackening the allegation of real
difficulties in any part of the sacred writings.
We do not of course urge the objection as bearing at all
against the fact of a future existence in another state. But
we are at liberty to demand of any one who affirms at this
day respecting a body that was buried, say four thousand
years ago, that it is to come out of its burying-place,
what he means by the assertion, when in point of fact not a
particle of it remains there—when it has passed partly into
other forms of vegetable and animal life, and partly into im­
ponderable gases? So far as this affirmation builds itself
upon the express declarations of Jesus, we would ever interro­
gate its import with the profoundest reverence; but still we
would interrogate it, nor do we conceive that a due respect
to the words of inspiration requires us to rest contented
with ideas that have nothing in them of definite or precise.
Under this impression we scruple not to reject, as contain­
ing unfair and injurious imputations, the sentiment of the
following extract from Witsius, (Dissert on the Apos. Creed,
Vol. II. p. 424,) who thus descants upon the philosophical
objection we are now urging:—“ In fact this objection dis­
covers a preposterous curiosity, and an immoderate love of
refinement; which, however, it is not impossible to repress
by satisfactory arguments. Even although we could find
Digitized by Google
THE ARGUMENT FROM REASON. 47
uothing more particular to say in reply, is it fit that we
should bring forward our reason, so feeble, so diseased, so
enveloped in thick darkness, and so defiled by numerous
corruptions, to weigh and measure the wisdom and power
of God, his faithfulness in his promises, and his admirable
providence and incredible facility in removing the greatest
possible difficulties 1 Truly, that man cherishes most un­
worthy thoughts of God, who determines to believe him in
nothing but what he is able to investigate and comprehend
in its entire nature and mode, by the force of his own un­
derstanding. We make this remark, however, not because
we have no other answer to return to the objection; but
because when human reason replies against God, it is useful
again and again to inculcate, that nothing is more just and
proper than that, in its inquiries into divine mysteries, it
should lay aside all murmuring, and allow itself to be sub­
dued into the obedience of faith.” Human reason is un­
doubtedly required to assume an attitude of the deepest def­
erence and docility in reference to divine teachings, but she
can never be required to forego her own attributes in deal­
ing with an alleged revelation from heaven; and this
enjoined subjeotion to the obedience of faith is ofien in
truth little else than a virtual quenching of that candle of
the Almighty which he has himself lighted up within us.
But we return to the objection. We say that the letter
o f the inspired record announces a fact apparently at vari­
ance with other facts which carry with them an authority
no less imperative to our rational understanding. How can
a body come out of the grave that is not there! It is pal­
pable that the language must be limited, modified, qualified
in some way, in order to be made accordant with known
facts. We shall consider the passage more at length in the
sequel; but we observe at present, that so far as it is pleaded
in proof of the resurrection of the same body, or indeed of
any material body at all, its testimony necessarily loses its
effect, so long as the obvious conflict between the letter and
Digitized by Google
4 8 THE DOCTRINE OR 1
0
1 ICTION.
the fact remains unremored. We are aware it may be
replied, that no one can positively affirm that ail the dust
has disappeared from the place where it was deposited—that
some relics of the entombed body may yet remain to form a
nucleusof the reconstructed fabric. This we believe to be
a very prevalent opinion in regard to the point in question.
The dominant impression throughout Christendom is not,
we think, that the entire body which was laid down at death
is resumed at the resurrection, bat rather that certain
parts of it, more or less, are in some way preserved from ex­
tinction, and, like a germ in vegetation, are transferred from
the old to the new structure, between which they constitute
the indispensable link in the chain of continuous identity.
But to say nothing of the utter lack of evidence that any
such transfer takes place—nothing of the intrinsic incom­
patibility of material and spiritual elements in the same
fabric—we are unable to perceive upon what grounds a
diminutive portion of a dissolved and decayed human body
can be said to constitute that body in its restored state.
We can imagine an old house taken down and a few of its
timbers or shingles to enter into the materials of a new one;
but would this be termed a rebuilding of the former edifice 1
So in regard to the former and latter body. The solution
labors under an insuperable difficulty from not defining how
much of the one is necessary for rendering it a renewal or
revival of the other. We are utterly nonplussed to master
the principle on which the insertion of a few particles of the
former body into the latter shall properly denominate it the
resurrection of that body.
The remarks now made are made on the admission that
there may, in some cases, be a residuum, small though it be,
of the corporeal mass remaining in the grave after the lapse
of hundreds or thousands of years. The probability, for the
most part, we doubt not would be against this as a matter of
fact; but in brder to present the difficulty in its strongest
light, we will suppose a case about which there can be no
yGoogk
TBK ARGUMENT PROM REASON. 4 9
doubt. T h e rites of sepulture—the inodes of disposing the
dead— hare always been different among different nations ;
and of the whole number of the race of men who hare hith­
erto lived and died, it is very doubtful whether the majority
of them have been buried, in the ordinary sense of the term.
However this may be, we know that cremation, or burning,
has ever been and still is practised among several eastern
nations. Now in order to present the difficulty in the case
before us in its full strength, we will suppose that in a suf­
ficient lapse of time the bodies of fire hundred Hindoo
widows are consumed on the funeral piles of their husbands
on some lofty mountain peak. In the process of combus­
tion it is evident that by the laws of chemistry a considera­
ble portion of the solids and fluids of the system pass into
invisible gases, which are lost in' the immensity of the at­
mosphere, while the only perceptible residuum from each
body is a little handful of ashes, which instead of being
gathered up and enclosed in cinerary urns, we will suppose
to be scattered by the wiuds to the four quarters of heaven.
Now it will doubtless be said that these bodies, like all
others, are to be raised again at the last day. But what is
meant by this language 1 How—in what sense—are these
bodies to be raised 1 The question is not whether these
persons are to live again. That is beyond the question.
B at what is to be understood by these bodies being said to
be raised at the final consummation 1 Raised out of graves
they certainly will not be, for they were never in graves;
and as to any germ that may possibly be conceived of in
respect to inhumed bodies, where is it here ? The elements
o f these bodies, after having been submitted to the action of
fire, are scattered through the universe, and we cannot con­
ceive of any mode by which they can be said to be raised
up, except by the re-gathering and re-construction of the
dispersed atoms—and to this Omnipotence is undoubtedly
competent. Bat does this relieve the difficulty t Does this
bring ns to the true scriptural view of the resurrection ?
Digitized by Google
Is it the genuine doctrine of the resurrection, that the iden­
tical particles of the former body are to be re-assembled and
formed into the renovated fabric? Will not this constitute
a body of flesh and blood, which we are expressly assured
cannot inherit the kingdom of God ?
Again then we ask, What is meant by the resurrection of
the body, and what the relation which the body that dies
bears to the body that is raised ? We cannot convict our­
selves of irreverence in proposing these questions. They
are forced upon us by the very laws of that reason with
which the Creator has endowed us, and with which the
dicta of revelation, when rightly understood, must, by in­
evitable necessity, accord. If the announcements of that
holy volume can only be received by the surrender of our
intelligence, and by a violent suppression of the voice which
it utters, how is it ever to command the assent of any but
minds of the lowest order ?
But we shall perhaps be referred to the analogies of the
vegetable world, and be reminded of Paul’s striking illus­
tration drawn from the sown seed and the up-springing plant,
in which we are to recognize the most fitting emblem of
the resurrection. We readily admit the general force of the
analogy; but we shall perceive, if we mistake not, on a close
examination, that the phenomena of the vegetable world il­
lustrate the subject in a different way from what is generally
imagined, and favor entirely a different construction. It is
well known that throughout the whole kingdom of vegeta­
tion the new plant arises from some inwrapped and latent
germ or stamen, to which the vital principle of the plant
adheres, and under the plastic and organific power of which
the new plant is developed. If the vital germ of a plant
dies, we look in vain for its revival in any form. But when
the germ lives, and the conditions are favorable, we confi­
dently anticipate its re-appearance in due season upon the
surface of the earth, and its advancement through the sev­
eral stages of its growth to full maturity, when it will be in
5 0 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
yGoogk
THS ARGUMENT FROM REASON. 61
the main a fac-simile of its parent. Bat in all this process
we can trace the uninterrupted continuance of life. There
is no break in the chain of vital operation, and consequently
we are not difficulted at all on the score of the relation
which the new plant bears to the old. Although it under­
goes a great change of form, and the numerical particles are
in a state of constant transition) yet so long as we can keep
our eye on the unbroken thread of life, we have no hesitation
in saying that there is a consistent sense in which it is the
same plant. But suppose that a kernel of corn were planted
to-day in the valley of the Mississippi, where it undergoes
the usual process of decomposition, and a century hence,
without any removal of the dust, a stalk of corn should
spring up on die plains of Hindostan, and we should be told
that that was the product of the seed dropped in the soil of
the Western continent, could we comprehend the possibility
of the fact? Could we perceive the relation of the two?
Now this presents very fairly the difficulty in regard to the
resurrection of the body. The difficulty arises from the
break in the continuity of the vital operations. While
the body is alive, the vital functions are indissolubly con­
nected with the presence and functions of the soul. When
death takes place the principle to which the animation of
the body was owing departs, and leaves the body a mere
mass of inert lifeless matter, subject, like all other matter,
to the action of chemical agencies, by which it is gradually
resolved into its primitive elements. Where then do we, or
can we, detect any thing like a germ or staminal principle,
by the action of which a new body can ever be developed
out of the remains of the former? It is precisely as in the
case of a plant, the germ of which has been decomposed
and destroyed. Does not that plant, as a matter of course,
lose its reproductive power ? Throw a seed into the fire,
and what prospect of its germination ? Submit a human
body to the action of the flames, and then say whether the
effect upon the vital principle or the vital portion, whatever
yGoogk
63 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
it may be, is not the same as in the esse of the plant. Do
not the same natural causes which forbid the re-qaickening
of the one forbid that of the other also? This we say on
the hypothesis—and it is nothing more—that there is any
thing in the human body, apart from the soul, answering to
the vital germ of the plant. Bat in truth the vital principle
of the body is indissolubly connected—we do not say iden­
tical—with the soul. If the body is again to be animated,
it must be by the re-infusion of the soul, a position in view
of which two objections at once array themselves in inter­
rogative form before the mind;—(1.) How is the body to
be forthcoming at the appointed time, when if has become
blended with an infinity of other organizations, and when
different human bodies have an equal claim to the particles
composing it? (3.) Supposing that Omnipotence should
adjust this difficulty, will the re-construction of the original
materials of the fleshly body form the spiritual body which
we conceive to be that of the resurrection ? And if a change
take place virtually equivalent to a new creation, how can
this be termed the resurrection of the same body ? On any
ground, therefore, we perceive the immense difficulty of es­
tablishing a definite or conceivable relation between the
body that dies and the body that is raised.
Let us now turn for a moment from the vegetable to the
animal kingdom, and note the organisms in that world of
wonders. The result we shall find to be the same. We see
the grovelling and unsightly caterpillar or silkworm cast off
its gross exuvite, and forth issues, after certain ordained
transformations, the brisk and beautiful winged insect, soar­
ing upwards in an element entirely new, and with a body
curiously adapted .to the sphere into which its existence is
transferred. Though it has not the same body, yet we have
no hesitation in saying it is the same creature which we be­
held creeping in peristaltic movement along the ground.
And we say it is the same, because we perceive here also
the unbroken continuity of the vital principle, the trne seat
yGoogk
•ad subject o f animal identity. We hare no difficulty in
recognizing the relation between the primitive and the
ultimate organism. The one is visibly developed out
of the other without one moment’s cessation of the
functions of life. But let us suppose, for a moment, that
the Caterpillar should die and moulder to dust before this
transformation, according to the laws of nature, had taken
place; should we look for the emergence, at any future time,
of tbe butterfly from the relics of the grub ? Or, if we
allow ourselves to imagine that one hundred or five hundred
years after the worm had passed away, an insect should
appear flapping its gilded wings over the very spot where the
preceding structure was decomposed, and we should be told
that that butterfly was the same being, transformed, with
the caterpillar that had perished there ages before, could we
by any possibility grasp the ideas involved in the affirma­
tion? All the relation that we could discern between the
one and the other would be that ofpriority and posteriority
o f time.
Now this, we contend, is precisely the difficulty that
weighs upon the common theory of the resurrection of the
body. According to this theory there is just that break—
that huge interruption—in the continuous agency of the vital
principle which makes it so impossible to discover or define
the relation between the buried and the beatified body.
T h e latent link which connects the two entirely escapes
detection, and yet it is upon the presence of this link alone
that we can predicate identity of the two structures. Thou­
sands and millions of bodies perished in the universal deluge.
Some of these were probably devoured by the monsters of
the deep, and entered into combination with their bodies.
Others, after the waters had retired and left them exposed
on the surface of the earth, were slowly resolved back again
into their primordial elements, and have since passed through
Countless m utations. The question is, whether the true
doctrine o f tb e resurrection requires us to believe that these
THB ABOOMBMT FROM BBASON. 5 3
Digitized by Google
&4 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
dispersed materials are to be re-collected again, and to enter
into the composition of spiritual bodies? If that is the
case with the antediluvian dust, it doubtless is with all other,
and how this is to be effected without taking to pieces and
unravelling, as it were, the whole framework of Nature,
surpasses conception. And if this is to be the case, when ?
Is it to be at the period denominated the last day, when
it is for the most part held that the conflagration of the
heavens and the earth is to take place,? If such be unequi­
vocally the divine testimony, we must of course receive it.
But it would surely seem to human view, a priori, a strange
and incomprehensible procedure, that the re-gathering of
these scattered particles, the re-building of these dilapidated
human temples, should be going on in the midst of this
scene of “ telluric combustion 1
”
It is obvious beyond question that the popular theory
reduces us to great extremities of solution. Indeed we see
not but that the difficulties which cluster about it are abso­
lutely insuperable; and if Faith has only this view of the
resurrection to present to Philosophy, we cannot perceive
any ground for wonder that Philosophy should be slow to
receive it; and yet Philosophy and Faith, like Righteous­
ness and Peace, in the economy of God, are and must be
wedded together. True philosophy—and we are here speak­
ing of no other—can never—never—be in conflict with
true faith.
There is doubtless a great variety of shades in the prev­
alent belief on this subject; yet we cannot, we think, be
mistaken in regarding it as the general sentiment, that not­
withstanding there is a very long and indefinite period to
elapse between death and the resurrection, yet that the future
body, when re-produced by the power of Omnipotence,
is to be in some way connected with and raised out of
the existing remains of the corporeal fabric which the soul
inhabited during its earthly sojourn. It is probable indeed
that the views entertained of the nature of this relation are
y G o o g k
somewhat loose and vague in most minds, and that they rest
in resolving it into the working of an Almighty power; yet
that it will be somehow in the actual resuscitation, in whole
or in part, of the dead bodiesconsigned to the earth that
this event will be accomplished, is undoubtedly very gene­
rally held.
T o this view of the received doctrine of the resurrec­
tion we have ventured to suggest the objection drawn from
the established fact, that our bodies in this world are under­
going a constant change, from the escape and replacement
of the particles of which they are composed, and conse­
quently that as we have, in the course of our lives, several
bodies, it does not convey a definite or intelligible idea to
say that the body will be raised at the last day. It leaves
us under the irresistible prompting to inquire, what body ?
It is a mode of expression very similar to that which should
affirm of some kind of coat which a man has worn for twenty
years, that at the end of that time it should be renewed. In
ordinary circumstances a person in that period wears and
wears out a great many coats. To say, therefore, that at
the end of twenty years a man’s coat shall be renewed, leaves
the mind utterly at a loss to know what particular coat is
meant. The difficulty is the same in regard to the future
renovation of the body. What body is intended 1 The reply
dictated by the more prevailing opinion probably is, that it
is the last body in the series. This is not an unnatural
impression on the basis of the common theory, that the body
to be raised is in some way directly related to the body
which was laid in the dust This is certainly the body
which dies ; and if a new body were to be constructed out
of the remains of the old one, it would strike us as most
reasonable that it should be out of that which “ we saw
quietly inurned.” As the previous bodies have all evapo­
rated and disappeared, the mind doubtless finds it extremely
difficult to trace the connexion between these transmuted,
volatilized an d vanished structures, and the future glorious
THE AMVM1HT FROM BEAftON. 6 6
Digitized by Google
5 6 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
corporeity. But let na suppose for a moment—and the sup­
position is perfectly legitimate—that thislast body has just as
much disappeared and become mingled with the universe as
any of its predecessors: what is gained, we would ask, in
the way of meeting the difficulty, by connecting the future
raised body with the last of the series any more than with
any of the former ones ? In the space of some thousands
of years they have all of them equally disappeared, and for
aught that we can see, one of them has just as much rela­
tion to the future resurrection body as another— and just as
little. Indeed we may ask if it is possible for any man in
the exercise of his calm reflection, even by the utmost stretch
of his faculties, to conceive the possibility that a risen saint
should be able to recognize the splendid, sublimated, celes­
tial fabric in which he soars upwards to the eternal man­
sions, as specifically related to that worn, watted, withered,
decrepit, or possibly marred, mutilated, and deformed body
from which his soul took its exit ? For ourselves, we are
unable to discover any adequate grounds for this opinion, or
to realize that the objection we are urging, from the succes­
sive changes of the human body, is not a valid objection.
We are certainly at liberty to demand what particular body
is to be raised. If any one is specified, then we ask why that
rather than any otheT ? If it be replied that the aggregate
of the whole is to be raised, then we naturally ask how those
portions of the huge fabric are to be disposed of which have
equally belonged to other bodies?
Our grand objection then to the common theory of the
resurrection, is founded upon the lack of a conceiva­
ble relation between the former and the latter body.
This relation we do not hesitate to affirm to be beyond the
grasp of the human intellect, and a resort to Omnipotence
leaves the difficulty, in our view, just where it was before.
While we would not dare to limit the Holy One of Israel, or
to deny that any thing is possible to him which is possible
in itself, yet, as we apprehend the subject before us, the ideas
yGoogk
THE ARGUMENT FROM REASON. 5 7
involved in the proposition of the resurrection of the same
body are incompatible per se. The real question is, bow
Omnipotence itself can establish the relation of which we
are in quest— how, not as to the manner, but as to the
fa c t.
W e are aware it is easily replied that it is no more
difficult to conceive of the future body being built up out of
the dispersed particles of the old one, than it is to conceive
o f the creation of the body in the first instance. But this
reply loses sight of one important consideration which
destroys the parallelism of the two cases. In the original
creation there is the production of something by the simple
fiat of Omnipotence that has no relation to any thing going
before. But in the case of the resurrection there is the
production of something out of a pre-existing substance,
and consequently involving a relation of the former and the
latter fabric to each other, which is of such a nature as
utterly to confound and-overwhelm our faculties, even when
Omnipotence is called in to solve the problem. We may
illustrate the difficulty that cleaves to the hypothesis by a
fresh supposition. We can easily imagine that beneath the
surface of a field of battle a human body, the body of a
horse, and the wheel of a war-chariot may have been
buried together. In process of time all these substances
moulder away and become commingled in one indiscrimi­
nate mass of dust. The dust is there ; but still it is bat
dust, and no power of human thought can conceive of one
part of the earthy material being essentially different from
the rest. No one can imagine any superior adaptedness in
one part more than in any other for the construction of a
glorified body. It is certainly impossible to conceive that
any attributes should pertain to one portion of the mass,
which should enable the soul to recognize itself as more at
home in a body formed of that, than in ope formed of any
other.
Yet, i f th e popular view of the snbjeet be correct, we
yGoogk
5 8 THE OOCTEINB OY THE RESURRECTION
are required to believe that there is a discrimination to be
made between these particles, now become homogeneous,
and that a latent virtue in some which does not pertain to
the others, is to appropriate them to the formation of a body
“ fashioned like unto Christ’s glorious body.” Can we
conceive it 2 If it be said in reply, that the true question
is, not whether we can conceive it, but whether inspiration
has affirmed it, our rejoinder to this will be found in the
sequel, where we consider the scriptural argument.
CHAPTER II.
Distinction o f Personal and Bodily Identity.
T h e position that the scriptural doctrine of the resur­
rection necessitates the belief of the resurrection of the
same body, enforces upon us the consideration of the subject
of identity. We are at once arrested by the inquiry, whe­
ther the identity o f the person implies the identity o f the
body. In strictness of speech a body which is undergoing
a constant change in its constituent particles cannot be said
to be the same in any two successive moments of its dura­
tion. This of course applies to the human body, the com­
ponent atoms of which are in a state of ceaseless fluctuation.
A precise use of language will not warrant the assertion, that
our bodies are the same this hour that they were the last.
The paring of a nail, the clipping of a hair, leaves the body
a different body from what it was before this subduction
from its integrity took place. It is true indeed that for all
the purposes of ordinary and popular discourse it is per­
haps an unexceptionable mode of diction to say, that we
have in mature life the same bodies that we had in child­
hood. But when we subject the phraseology to a rigid test,
Digitized by Google
DISTINCTION Or PERSONAL AND BODILY IDENTITY. 6 9
it is obvious that it cannot be true. That cannot be the
same through a given lapse of time which is constantly
changing its constituent parts during that time.
How then is it possible to affirm, with philosophical ac­
curacy, that I have the same body to-day that I had twenty
years ago? And it would certainly be hard to show that that
which is philosophically false is theologically true. The
point before us is one on which we are at liberty to insist
upon the most punctilious exactness of definition. We are
well aware that current modes of speech do not very nicely
discriminate on this head, nor ~is it necessary. A man
takes his stand by the falls of Niagara, and watches for
hours the sublime spectacle of the cataract. He beholds
the same element—he sees it in the same circumstances—
he is surrounded by the same localities—he hears the same
roar—it makes upon him the same impression ; and he
says, in common parlance, that he sees the same object.
Yet nothing is plainer than that the particles of the fluid
are every instant changing, and consequently that which he
sees at one glance of his eye is not the same with that
which he sees at the next. He predicates sameness of the
object simply upon the ground of the sameness of the cir­
cumstances, relations, and effects. So in regard to a hu­
man body. I meet a well known acquaintance today whom
I last saw a year or ten years ago. His form, air, manner,
and voice are the same, and as his presence produces upon
me the same effect, I say, without particularly scanning the
propriety of the language, that I behold the same body.
But on a moment’s reflection, my reason corrects the report
of my senses,- and I am convinced that it cannot be the same
body, if it is subject to the laws of all other human bodies.
I behold the same person, but not the same body.
The remarks of Bishop Butler (Anal. Dissert. I.) on the
identity of plants, are signally apposite in this connexion,
especially as they indirectly develope the true grounds of the
distinction between bodily and personal identity. “ The
Digitized by Google
60 T H DOCTRINE OF T H RCIURKECTION.
inquiry, what makes vegetables the same, in the common
acceptation of the word, does not appear to have any rela­
tion to this of personal identity; because the word mom ,
when applied to them and to persons, is not only applied to
different subjects, but it is also used in different senses.
For when a man swears to the same tree, as having stood
fifty years in the same place, he means only the same as to
all the purposes of property and uses of common life, and
not that the tree has been all that time the same iu the
strict philosophical sense of the word. Fur he does not
know whether any one particle of the present tree be the
same with any one particle of the tree which stood in the
same place fifty years ago. And if they have not one com­
mon particle of matter, they cannot be the same tree, in the
proper philosophical sense of the word same,- it being evi­
dently a contradiction in terms to say they are, when no
part of their substance, and no one of their properties, is the
same—no part of their substance, by the supposition ; and
no one of their properties, because it is allowed that the
aame property cannot be transferred from one substance to
another. And therefore when we sav the identity or same­
ness of a plant consists in a continuation of the same life
communicated under the same organization, to a number of
particles of matter, whether the same or not, the word fame,
when applied to life and organization, cannot possibly be
understood to signify what it signifies iu this very sentence,
when applied to matter. In a loose and popular sense,
then, the life, and the organization, and the plant, are justly
said to be the same, notwithstanding the perpetual change
of the parts. But in a strict and philosophical manner of
speech, no man, no being, no mode of being, nor any thing,
can be the same with that with which it hath indeed nothing
the same. Now sameness is used iu this latter sense ap­
plied to persons. The identity of these, therefore, cannot
subsist with diversity of substance.”
How much sounder is the rettaotung which we here eo-
yGoogk
counter than that of Mr. Drew on the same subject (Es­
say on the Ident. and Resurrect, o f the Hum. Bod., p. 139,
et inf). “ We well know, in case of amputation, that
much of the substance of the body may be taken away,
without in the least affecting the identity of that body from
which that substance was taken. For while amputation
will, and ifievitably must, destroy the identity of the nume>
rical parts, the identity of the body will remain uninjured
and entire, as much so, as though no such amputation had
taken place.”— “ When the body of a corpulent man has
been reduced to a mere skeleton by a fever, we may ask—
Is that body the same that it was before? (Answer, no.)
In point o f identity it is most undoubtedly the same, but in
point of real numerical particles it is undoubtedly much
changed, and is become considerably different from what it
was before. And as the loss of particles reduced his body
to that skeleton at which I have just hinted, so when this per­
son shall be recovered from his reduced state, and restored to
his former corpulency, it must be by the acquisition of new
particles, which are now incorporated in the system, in the
room of those which the fever had wasted and exhaled. He
must still possess the same body, in point of identity, under
all the variation of health and sickness; though perhaps not
less than one-third part of the particles which now compose
his system is entirely new.” In all this we detect the fal­
lacy of confounding the identity of the man with the iden­
tity of the body. So again in what follows :— “ W e see also
the surprising changes which an infant undergoes from an
embryo in the womb to a maturity of years and to hoary
age; through all the numberless variations to which, in
every stage o f life, the body has been exposed. And yet,
through all those changes which either sickness or health
produces; which respiration, or effluvia, or perspiration, can
either separately or conjointly occasion, or which the em­
bryo, from infancy to maturity can undergo, the identity is
still the same.”
DISTINCTION OF PERSONAL AND BODILY IDENTITY. 61
4
Digitized by Google
. If thta be so, then we do not scruple to say, that it is
vain to attempt to affix meaning to language. But the
errant conclusions of this writer flow by legitimate sequence
,from his fundamental hypothesis, which is a mere gratuitous
assum)>tion, “ that there must be somewhere lodged within
jthe body, some portion of immovable matter, from which
its general identity is denominated, in all the variations
through which it passes, in the devious mutations of human
life.” Holding this view it is no wonder that his treatise
discovers such a leaning to the Jewish figment of the immor­
tal bone in the extremity of the os coccygis.
But this rirer of ratiocination soon loses itself in the
sands when followed down into the region of clear physiologi­
cal and psychological induction. Here we learn that the
identity of the body is one thing, and the identity of the
•person another. Without a clear perception of this distinc­
tion the true doctrine of the resurrection will fail to be
grasped. When once apprehended, we are immediately
freed from all embarrassment on the score of the unceas­
ing succession of particles. Affixing the seat of identity
to the seat of personality, we can see the body wasting by
.exhalation and repairing itself by new accretions, and still
perceive the central substratum of our being remaining
•unmoved, indestructible, and eternal, in the midst of si]
cycles of change. Something assuredly there is, which
■lives abiding and untouched in the midst of, and in spite
of, the incessant flux of our corporeal existence. In that
something our personality inheres, and to it our true identity
cleaves. Of the body we cannot predicate identity at all in
-any two successive moments of its being; much less after
. centuria! intervals and unknown transmutations. It is a mere
centre of centripetal and centrifugal particles continually
arriving and departing without any permanent stay. What
can any man make of the unmodified averment that the same
body is to rise at some indefinitely future day 1 If a man
rises in the morning with a different body from that with
6 2 THE DOCTRINE OF THE BHBVRRHCTION.
Digitized by Google
which he lay down—though he still remains the same per­
son—with what propriety can he be said to rise from Us
grave with the same body with which he entered it 1
Personality implies intelligence and self-consciousness.
A beast is an individual, bnt not a person. The mere ani­
mal feels itself, bnt is not conscious of itself. The seat of
personality is the centre of all onr bodily and mental activi­
ties. The idea of the bodily structure does indeed enter into
the general conception of the person, but it is related to it
just as our clothes are related to our bodies—as a mere ad­
ventitious appendage. It is not essential to the reality of
the person, as that which constitutes a man’s self survives
the body ; it is not essential to the identity of the person, as
that remains unchanged amid all the changes of the body.*
The personality of a human being is centred in that which
thinks, and reasons, and wills; which loves, and fears, and
hopes; which suffers, enjoys, and feels. The vitalprinciple,
whatever that be, is intimately, and probably indissolubly,
connected with the intellectual and moral principle, but
bo philosophy has yet shown that it is identical with it.
The ipvxT] and the vovg, the anima and the mens, the
animal spirit and the mind, coexist in the compound unity
of our being, and though the essential and ontological attri-
DISTINCTION OT DKBSONAL AND BODILY IDENTITY. S S
* " Perhaps you will say, it is not the same person, if it is not in a great
measure the same body. 1 say, if the soul had not the least of the dead
body, it would be the same person. St. Paul said he was *rapt into the
third heaven,’ and yet whether in the body or ont of the body, could not
tell; and yet was he not the very person of Paul still ? Christ says to
the thief, ‘ This day ehalt thou be with me in Paradise.’ The tody of
the thief was upon the cross; it did not go into Paradise. Whom, there­
fore, did Christ take into Paradise {—another person, or the same 1 Or
was Christ another person, or the same, during the three days his body
was in the grave 1 All the saints, martyrs, prophets, and patriarchs, and
all that have departed, whether good or bad, before the resumption of
their bodies (?) are the same persons, and have their distinct fetes
allotted them.”— B u rn e ts State o f the Dead, p. 233.
Digitized by Google
64 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
bates of each elude our keenest research, yet the slightest
reflection cannot hesitate to make the ground of our entity
to be the seat of our permanent identity. The essence of
this our faculties are not, perhaps, competent to reach ; but
be it what it may, it is doubtless in its own nature inde­
structible and immortal, and that to which we must look as
the true basis of the doctrine of the resurrection. The
erroneous estimate which, as we conceive, has heen formed
of this doctrine, has arisen from confounding some fancied
identity of the body with that of the person. Mr. Locke has,
indeed, developed the distinction with pre-eminent ability,
but the assumed exigencies of theology have frowned upon
its recognition, and it still finds a slow and reluctant admis­
sion. But the eventual triumph of truth cannot fail to
sweep away the last barrier that opposes its access to the
inmost convictions of the human mind.*
* “ The present seems a fit opportunity for introducing two or three
observations on the snbject ofpersonal identity. It has been Baid, and is
admitted, that the body is constantly changing, undergoing decay and
renovation, yet the individual is conscious of being the same person,
because some particles of the original body remain. Now, this is an
error; for, first, we have no reason to believe that any molecule of matter
now existing in our bodies will not have been effectually changed some
years since, and perhaps oftentimes; for no part is exempted from the
general law, and therefore the consciousness of personal identity cannot
depend upon the material fa c t of some part remaining unchanged, as a
lingering nucleus on which to ground a reasoning in proofof identity.
“ The truth admits of a much easier and more rational explanation,
since the consciousness of personal identity flows from that of continued
existence. The whole may be changed; not a single particle of the
original body may remain, yet the change has proceeded so gradually that
the greater number of old particles remain while the new ones are pre­
pared ; and therefore, at any one given moment, there are in the body a
much greater number of old than new particles; and the consciousness of
personal identity has been transferred from one set of particles to another
without any perceptible change. The decay and renovation have gone on
by an unperceived process, and it has been only as a matter ofscience and
Digitized by Google
It is well known to have been ascertained by chemistry
that the body is made up of no less than nine different sub­
stances—gases, earths, metals, and salts.* These substan-
DISTINCTION OF PERSONAL AND BODILY IDENTITY. 6 5
reasoning that we have known any thing of this change; the conscious­
ness of personal identity cannot, therefore, rest on any material condi­
tion. In fa c t this consciousness does not depend on the body, but on the
mind; it has nothing to do w ith the material particles, but rests for its
existence upon the immaterial spirit, and upon the sense of its continued
existence. Now, this is, after all, to be referred to a species of memory—
a recollection of former self as coincident with present self.”—Newn-
ham on E ecip. Infl. of Bod. and M ind, p. 124,5.
* Magendie makes the number of these elements to be eleven, and
still regards it as doubtful whether even this be strictly correct. We may
probably consider the truth as lying between these extremes. The fol­
lowing extract from the same writer may be pertinently introduced in
this connexion :—“ Whatever may be the number and diversity of the
phenomena presented by men during life, they may be reduced at last to
these two principal ones, viz., nutrition and vital action."—“ The life of
man, and that of other organized bodies, is preserved by the habitual
assimilation of a certain quantity of matter, called aliment. If they are
deprived of this for a given period, it will be necessarily followed by a
cessation of life. On the other hand, daily observation shows that the
organs of man, and other living beings, are constantly losing a certain
portion of the matter of which they are composed. A necessity, there­
fore, for repairing the loss which is thus constantly sustained, is the rea­
son why the habitual use of aliments is required. From these data, and
fromsome other circumstances which we shall mention by and by, it has
beenjustly concluded that living bodies are not composed, identically, of
the same matter at every period of their existence, but that they undergo
a total renovation. The ancients imagined that this was accomplished
in the space of seven years. But, without admitting this conjecture to
its full extent, it is extremely probable that all parts of the body, daring
life, are undergoing a change, which has the double effect of expelling
those molecules which have served their appointed time in the compo­
sition of the organs, and of replacing them by new molecules. It is this
which constitutes nutrition. This process does not fall, indeed, under the
cognizance of our senses; but the effects are so palpable, that it would
be the height of skepticism to doubt it. In the present state ofphysiology,
this operation cannot be attributed to chemical affinity, that power which
controls the action of minute particles of matter upon each other in dead
yGoogk
6S vam doctkikx or t h i ubvrsbction.
oes, in the living body, are held in combination by acme
agency which we call life, and which is continually exerting
an antagonistic force against the tendencies to dissolution.
The component particles of these substances are undergoing
incessant changes under the ceaseless action of that myste­
rious power which dismisses some and attracts others. This
power maintains a perpetual sway, unchanged itself amidst
all the changes which it works, until death ensues, when the
body becomes a corpse, and the elements fall asunder. The
life then retires, and with the life goes forth the intelligence,
which conjointly constitute the essence of the man. But
this surely is not the extinction of his being. Though
invisible, he still lives; though no longer physical, he is
still psychical; nor can it be shown that the phrase, psychical
body, is not a fitting expression for that mode of existence
upon which he enters at death.
We are well aware that we are here treading upon the
outermost limits of our knowledge; but, as the fact is incon­
testable, that a vital principle, pervading the whole frame,
coexists with the intellectual principle in the body, is not
the presumption perfectly legitimate that they coexist also
out of the body ? In other words, that we go into the spir­
itual world with a psychical body 1 This, in strictness of
speech, is perhaps a more appropriate epithet by which to
denominate the body of the resurrection than spiritual,
for the reason that it is not entirely clear that this latter
term is used in the Scriptures in a metaphysical sense. The
original term, nrevpauxot, is derived from nrtvfia, spirit, and
it cannot be doubted that the dominant usage of this word by
the sacred writers is not in opposition to material, but to
carnal, as when it is said, “ The spirit is willing, but the
flesh is weak.” Still it is evident that these senses, which
we may cal) the metaphysical and the moral, do border so
closely upon, as occasionally to run into, each other; and
bodies, nor, indeed, do we know of any satisfactory explanation o f it.”—
Magendiefs Elements o f H um an Physiology, p. 26.
Digitized by Google
THE TREE B6BT OF THE REBHBBBCTlOlf.
where angels and demons are termed nvsvpaia, spirits, thftj
ground of the appellation is doubtless the immaterial nature-
which they possess. For this reason we have frequently
employed the phrase “ spiritual body” in these pages in
the metaphysical sense—a sense in which it would apply to
the future bodies of the wicked, as well as of the righteous.
At the same time we cannot but deem the term psychical,
derived from f i ’
zy, soul, life, the scat o f sensation, as con­
veying a more strictly accurate idea in this connexion than
the other, although aware that this also is occasionally used
in a moral sense.* We here repeat the remark which we
have substantially made before, that we cannot admit that
our inability to define with scientific exactness the intrinsic
nature of the substance which, on the authority of Scripture,
we denominate spiritual, vacates the general force of our
reasonings on the subject. If our conclusions are denied
on this score, what are those which are affirmed T
CHAPTER III.
The True B ody o f the Resurrection, as inferred by Reason.
W e trust it may not be forgotten that we are prosecuting
exclusively the rational argument in respect to the resurrec­
tion. T h e conclusions derived from the Scriptural view of
the subject will be matter of subsequent consideration. At
present we take philosophy for our guide, just as the geol-
• Some writers have adopted, by way of distinction, on this subject,
the terms sarkosonuitnus and pneumasomalous. which will at once dis­
close their meaning to scholars as implying the flesh-body and the spirit-
hody, and to which there is no objection but their strangeness to English
rare.
Digitized by Google
THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
agist takes the earth for his theme, and from its own phe­
nomena endeavors to ascertain its past and future history.
There is doubtless a science pertaining to each—a science
yielding truths in which the reason, by the very laws of its
actings, must rest with absolute assurance. These results
of the reason, when rightly established, must agree with
the sense of revelation, when rightly understood. As both
reason and revelation acknowledge the same Divine Author,
it is impossible that there should be any conflict in their
genuine teachings. - In regard to the point in question, we
have shown, if we mistake not, that a sound and strict
philosophy does encounter difficulties in the resurrection of
the same body which may be pronounced insuperable, while
it perceives none in the resurrection of the same person.
The nature of these difficulties we may develope a little
more at length, and under somewhat of a new aspect, with
a view to come somewhat nearer to a conception of the true
theory of the future life.*
The succession of particles in the human body may be
compared to the successive members of a corporate society
• “ In the mean time I crave leave to ask whether there be any prop­
ositions yonr lordship can be certain of that are not divinely revealed ?
And here I will presame that your lordship is not so skeptical but that
you can allow certainty attainable in many things by your natural facul­
ties. Give me leave, then, to ask your lordship whether, when there be
propositions of whose truth youhave certain knowledge, you can receive
any proposition for divine revelation which contradicts that certainty T
If you cannot, as I presume your lordship will say you cannot, I make
bold to return your lordship’s questions put to me in your own words:
* Let us now suppose that you are to judge of a proposition delivered as
a matter of faith, where you have certainty by reason, can you, my lord,
assent to this as a matter of faith, when you are already certain of the
contrary 1 How is this possible 1 Can you believe that to be true which
you are certain is not true 1 How can you believe against certainty 1
*
Certainty is certainty, and he that is certain it certain, and cannot assent
to that as true which he is certain is not true.”—Locke?* R eply to B p.
o f Worcester, p. 217-18.
Digitized by Google
THE TKUE BODY OF THE RESURRECTION.
formed under a charter. Let us take, for example, the Eng­
lish East India Company. Let us suppose that this com­
pany, after being in existence for a number of years, should
at length, and long before the term of the charter expires,
become virtually extinct, by the death of all but one or two
of its members, who become remiss in acting any longer in
their corporate capacity. We will imagine again that, after
the lapse of a considerable interval, it is proposed to resus­
citate the company. What are the leading ideas involved
in the supposition? Would it be at all inferred that the
former members were to be restored to life and organized
anew ? Does the renovated life of the company imply the
reviviscence of the individual members who have previously
formed it ? The charter, it will be perceived, is the true
constituting or uniting principle of the society, and so long
as the charter remains unimpaired, with its objects, provi­
sions, and conditions, so long the real essential life of the
corporate company remains also unimpaired. The vitality,
so to speak, of the society is in the charter, and there its
identity is seated. So long as the charter remains the same,
the society remains the same, and this sameness is entirely
independent of the sameness of the members associated un­
der it. So far then as we can perceive, the revival of the
corporate society is not the revival, in any sense, of the
original members, but merely the revival of the inherent
formative or organise power of the charter. The charter
is the living nucleus—the germ—the ground-element—to
which the new social fabric owes its existence. This lives
unchanged in the midst of all the changes which come over
the incorporated members, which “ never cease to perish.”
Now it is obvious, in the application of this to the subject
before us, that if we could find in the human being some­
thing analogous to the oharter in the company—something
which continues to live in spite of the constant process of
decay and"dissolution—something of which we copld predi­
cate an immovable identity in the midst pf perpetpaj trap»
*Digitized by Googk
sition—should we not feel that we had obtained a clew to
the trae resurrection-body? We might indeed be conscious
that it was giving language somewhat more than its usual
latitude to apply the term body to this subtle entity, whatever
it was, but would it not be that which we should be sure
was to be so denominated, if the term were used at all in
this connexion ? This principle, it is evident, while it con­
stitutes the counterpart to the charter supposed, must be
something wholly apart from and independent of the ma­
terial particles which compose the present fabric of the
body—something which has no permanent or necessary re­
lation to that body—something which precludes the idea of
the re-collection or re-construction of those dispersed mate­
rials of the former corporeity. Such, we cannot help be­
lieving, is the true view of the snbjeet. The resurrection-
body is that part of our present being to which the essential
life of the man pertains. We may not be able to see it, to
handle it, to analyze it, or to describe it. But we know
that it exists, because we know that we ourselves exist. It
constitutes the inner essentia] vitality of our present bodies,
and it lives again in another state because it never dies. It
is immortal in its own nature, and it is called a body—a
spiritual body—because the poverty of human language, or
perhaps the weakness of the human mind, forbids the adop­
tion of any more fitting term by which to express it. It is,
however, a body which has nothing to do with the gross ma­
terial particles which enter into the composition ofour present
earthly tenements. Still we re-affirm our former position,
that the truth of our conclusion on this head does not de­
pend upon our ability to define the internal nature or consti­
tution of this substratum of our being. We know that it
is, whatever be its essence, and we are at liberty to reason
to it and from it, as a positive existence, the negation of
which would land us in interminable absurdities.
We cannot be unconscious, however, that we must here
be prepared to encounter the query, whether, upon the view
TO TOE DOCTRINE OF TOE RESURRECTION.
Digitized by Google
THE TRUE BODY OF THE RESURRECTION. 7 1
now presented, the doctrine of the resurrection does not in
fact resolve itself simply into the doctrine of immortality i—
whether it does not in reality exclude the present corporeal
fabric from any participation in the resurrection, and virtu*
ally abolish the distinction, as usually conceived, between
soul and body in the future life 1 A fair question, doubtless,
in reply to which our first remark is, that if our previous
train of reasoning be sound and unimpeachable, and if this be
the natural, obvious, and inevitable sequence which is forced
upon us, we see not why we should shrink from it. Why
should we fear to abide by sound conclusions drawn from
sound premises 1 Truth is truth, regard it how we m ay;
and if the laws of evidence, acting with a power and clothed
with an authority which the very structure of our minds
compels us to recognize, force upon us certain deductions
from acknowledged facts and admitted principles, shall we
not receive them 1 W e freely confess ourselves unable to
perceive the pregnable point of our foregoing reasonings;
and so long as this is the case, we feel bound to abide by their
just results. If these results be deemed of novel charac­
ter, and such as to involve the most momentous consequen­
ces to the interests of revelation, still if they are legitimately
arrived at, we cannot consent to charge ourselves with any
special responsibility on the score of enouncing them. The
consequences of truth belong to the God of truth, and to
him we may confidently leave them. The reader will judge
for himself how far the conceded facts and premises of our
argument necessitate the conclusion to which we have ad­
verted. If it be inevitable, we abide by it. Although thus
far pursued merely as an argument from reason irrespective
of revelation, yet if it be sound we not only calmly repose
in the conclusion, but are unshaken also in the conviction,
that revelation, rightly interpreted, must harmonize with it.
It is impossible that any two truths in the universe should
clash with each other. How far this may apparently be the
case in the present instance, will soon be matter of inquiry,
Digitized by Google
73 TH E DOCTRINE O f T E E RESURRECTION.
Bat, secondly, we observe that on no subject in the whole
circle of human knowledge are we more in the dark than
in regard to what is usually termed the soul. It is common to
speak on this subject as if the soul were mere abstract thought
—pure intellection—capable of subsisting in another world
in the most absolute and isolated state, without any kind of
connection with any kind of body. But ia thought sub­
stance ? In order to thought must there not be something
which thinks?—something of which thought is the attribute,
and not the essence ? Granted it may be, and must be, that
we are unable to detect or define this mysterious substance;
but we may still affirm that it must exist, and that no error
is greater than to suppose, that at death the soul goes forth
from the body as a hare power o f thought—bodiless and
formless mens—which is indeed in our present constitution
lodged in a body, but to which a body is not necessary, and to
which a body is in fact rather an incumbrance. Now to all
this we do not hesitate to reply, that it is nothing more than
a shea hypothesis. It is impossible on the ground either
of revelation or philosophy to make good the position.
While our reason assures us that the power of thought does
not pertain to the gross physical fabric which remains when
the inhabiting spirit has taken its flight, we are still unable
to resist the impression, that it does inhere in something
which goes forth at the same time with the vital principle,
and that something we believe to be the yni*17, psyche, which
is the seat and subject of nervous sensibility.*
* A theme of great interest in connexion with our present subject is
the sense attached to ifmxn, psyche, in the more ancient Greek writers,
especially Hpmer. In his psychology the word never denotes spirit or in­
telligence, in the stricter definition of those terms, but always the breath
or life, considered as the animating or animal principle of man. The
intellectual principle is denoted by rots, mind, Jrop, heart, Q
(lives, reins,
(as the seat of the understanding), &c. When a man departs from life,
the 4n X>
h according to. the Homeric belief, leaves the body; and this
<b>xh continues to exist in hades. This belief rested on certain material
yGoogk
THE TRUE BODY OF THE BESUBBECTION. 7 3
Our indisputable ignorance of the nature of this substance
disqualifies us equally from denying as from affirming the
truth of many things that may be predicated of it. The pre­
cise boundaries between the physical and the psychical parts
of our nature have never yet been determined. In many
points they seem to run into each other, and the progress of
notions, and was in fact fashioned entirely out of rude inferences from
sensible impressions. Derivedfrom <pixu> breathe, it signifies primarily
the breath or air which we exhale and inhnle, and this idea lies at the
bottom of all the significations of the word in the language of Homer.
But as the breath is the one visible condition of life, it came at length to
signify more ordinarily the life, without, however, giving up the primitive
import of the breath. We can see from this how naturally it should have
becomeestablished in a kind ofscientific sense, to denote the idea of vital
activity, which is closely related to that which constitutes the essence of
theperson, for which it is often employed in Scriptural Greek. When a
man dies a natural death the phenomena are as if the breath were the
cause of life. That ceasing, this ceases. But the body remains behind,
and though the t y x '1 i* invisible, yet it continues to live, and to live in
hades, the great receptacle of departed human beings. The ideas, how­
ever, connected with the verged considerably towards the material,
as Homer speaks of it as escaping from the f y m t ¿lovru» , thefence or sept
of the teeth, and also as passing out through a wound. This is still more
evident from the fact that the existence of the in hades was consid­
ered to be in a definite form, which is usually expressed by the kindred
term riduXov, eidolon, likeness, image, shadowy form. The words in
Homeric usage are most intimately related to each other, and when he
speaks of the appearance of a departed ^ x b 10 n person living, the ap­
parition or phantom is frequently designated by d J u X o r , the airy sem­
blance of a man, as men appear in dreams, with the form, dress, mien,
dec., of the real person. We cannot go at length into the discussion, but
it is obvious that the Homeric ideas ascribe the continuation of the life
to the ijo>xh, which abandons the body at death, and with which it has
never any more concern—that they give to the ¡f^Xb in its disembodied
state a human form, like the ghosts of Ossian, which is expressed by the
term tid u X o v , an ethereal phantom, which was supposed to be an exact
resemblance of the man—and finally, that this view approaches much
nearer the truth, if we have exhibited the truth, than has generally been
supposed.
yGoogk
74 THE DOCTRINE OP THE RESURRECTION.
physiological science is continually multiplying the proofs
of a most intimate relation between our sensations and the
subtler physical agencies of nature. It is ascertained too,
beyond question, that our vital functions are closely con­
nected, if not identified, with the operation of certain invisi­
ble powers and elements which we denominate electric or
galvanic. We know, moreover, that the vitality of plants
and of the vegetable kingdom generally, is greatly depend­
ent on electrical influence. The effects produced by the
shocks of the electrical machine in forcing the growth of
flowers is conclusive on this head. The whole economy of the
nervous system is inseparably connected with the operation
of the same pervading agency. The experiments made by
submitting the dead bodies of executed criminals to the ac­
tion of galvanism, go far to evince that it is the same kind of
influence which nature, or the God of nature, employs in
producing the same motions and contractions in the living
subject. And who is ignorant of the very close relation
between the nervous system and the mind ? Who does not
know that the healthy state, the due proportions, and the
kindly influence of the nervous power will act as an elixir
of life on the animal spirits, and spread the rainbow hues of
Paradise over every scene; while the diseased action of this
same power will clothe creation with a mourning pall, and
people every happy abode with the demons of darkness and
despair! These aerial agencies are, we must admit, too
subtle and fugitive to be retained within our grasp; we have
not yet mastered the laws under which they act; and any
one must necessarily be at fault if pressed to explain the
manner in which their processes are carried on. But sci­
ence has reached results which certainly warrant the con­
clusion, that all nature is pervaded by these active energies,
and that we are living and moving in the midst of elements
which directly take hold of the inner vitalities of our being,
and from the action of which a spiritual body may be de­
veloped by established laws as soon as the present tenement
Digitized by Google
75
is forsaken of Us informing principle.* T o the question,
whether such a body shall be material or immaterial, we
* The intimate connexion between electrical phenomena and light
goes undoubtedly to favor the idea that the spiritual body will be essen­
tially luminous. Intimations to the same effect seem in fact to be con­
veyed by numerous passages of Scripture, where the body of the resurrec­
tion is spoken of. When the apostle assures us that our vile body is to
be “ fashioned like unto Christ’s glorious body,” we are naturally
reminded of rite appearance of his body when transfigured, which wo
cannot well regard otherwise than as a preintimation of the splendor
which shall clothe the persons of the risen saints, and it cannot properly
be deemed a detraction from this glory to know that it is an essential
property of the substance of which those bodies shall be composed, and
is disclosed by a necessary law to the eye which is brought into a con­
dition to perceive i t ; for it does not appear that such a perception is com­
petent to the natural eye. It is to us by no means clear that either the
transfiguration or the ascension ofChrist was beheld by the disciples with­
out some change in their subjective condition as an indispensable prere­
quisite, whether they were conscious of it or not. But, however this may
be, it does not affect the main position, that a spiritual body is, in its own
nature, essentially luminous and refulgent, and that the Scriptures so
represent it. W e are certainly taught to conceive the bodies of angels as
of this character, and the condition of the risen righteous is expressly
affirmed to be angelic. The whole tenor of the apostle’s reasoning in
1 Cor. 15, implies that the resurrection body will be glorious, not only in
the vague sense of perfect, but in the sense of an actual investiture of
light. In this view of the subject we cannot but recognise something
more than a mere figurative expression in such language as the following,
founded upon a direct allusion to the resurrection: Matt. 13. 43, “ Then
shall the righteous thineforth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father,”
words which naturally refer themselvesto a kindred phraseology ; Dan. If?.
3, “ They that be wise shall shine as the brightness of thefirmament, and
they that turn many to righteousness, at the stars for ever and ever.”
Here we are furnished at once with the clew to Paul’s illustration, 1 Cor.
15. 40,41: “ There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial (i. e.
human bodies) ; but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the
terrestrial' is another. There is one glory of the sun, and another glory
ofthe moon, and another glory of the stars ; for one star differeth from
another star in glory.” This is merely an expansionof the idea conveyed
originally by Daniel.
It may be deemed, perhaps, a somewhat presumptuous anticipation of
th e tbue boot op the resurrection.
Digitized by Googk
76 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
may pledge ourselves to return an answer, when the natu­
ralist shall inform us whether light is material or immaterial ;
whether electricity, electro-magnetism, caloric, and the
principle of gravitation, be material or immaterial ; in re­
gard to which no one is at present prepared to affirm either
the one or the other. The truth is, we know but little of
the true nature of what we term matter when we come to
its more refined and subtle forms. Our ideas of it are de­
rived mostly from its grosser conditions, of which we do not
scruple to predicate inertness as one. But the moment we
turn our eyes to the process of vegetation, we see the so-
called inert mass of matter putting forth quickening powers
and evincing qualities entirely at variance with our-previous
the remits which max hereafter accrue from the newly developed phe­
nomena of Mesmerism, to appeal to them in connexion with a subject
of such grave moment as that under discussion; but as our own observa­
tion and experience, in circumstances that precluded the possibility of
illusion, have fully established to our minds the leading facts of that sci­
ence—for science it assuredly is—we have no hesitation in expressing
the full belief that very important light is yet to be reflected from that
source on some of the profoundest mysteries of our physical and intel­
lectual being. Nor isit any less clear to our convictions that the physico-
psychical system of Swedenborg, in tAt# connexion, is destined to engage
the study of all reflecting minds; for sure we are that no one can insti­
tute the comparison that we have, between the facta of animal mag­
netism and the doctrines of this remarkable man, without seeing that they
stand in the same relation to each other as do the laws of gravitation in
the universe to the philosophy of Newton. We have learned—and not a
little to our surprise—that the system of Swedenborg, so far from being a
mere wild incoherent farrago of spiritual hallucinations, is really built
upon a profound philosophy of m atter and of m ind, and that the question
of the truth of his theology must be decided by that of his philosophy; and
this, strange as it may appear, is rather receiving confirmation than refu­
tation by the results of scientific research. Nor will a supreme regard to
truth allow us to withhold the declaration, that the view of the resurrec­
tion advocated in these pages is substantially the same with that taught
in his writings, though arrived at by an independent process, and before
we were aware of the features of affinity between them.
Digitized by Google
THB TBUB BODY OF THE RESURRECTION. 7 7
definitions. And so when we resolve solid substances into
gases, we are confounded to find that which before answered
all our ideas of matter apparently assuming other attributes
and coming under other laws. Our knowledge is here non*
plussed, and still the facts are palpable to our senses. We
know that there are these subtle elements mixed up in the
grosser materials of our bodies, with which our mental op­
erations are connected, and upon which they are dependent,
and we cannot know but that they may exist separate from
our bodies, and form in fact, in the strictest propriety of
speech, a spiritual body. The evidence of this may exist
independent of our ability to define its essential nature.
What this is we at present do not know, and cannot define;
neither can any one define the nature of Christ’s transfig­
ured body, when seen by Peter and James and John on the
summit of the holy mount, or that of the bodies of Moses
and Elias, who appeared on that occasion. If we could
comprehend the one, we doubtless could the other ; for the
presumption is, that the Saviour’s body at the transfiguration
was a mere splendid foreshowing of the quality of the post­
resurrection bodies of himself and his saints. Their bodies,
we are expressly told, are to be “ fashioned like unto his
glorious body.”
The opponents of our theory may perhaps take advan­
tage of this consideration, and apply it to the attributes of
the gross body which is laid aside at death. They may say
it is impossible to show, that there may not be a subtle resi­
duum extricated from the material mass which is deposited in
the grave, which may be sufficient to form the ground-ele­
ment of the resurrection-body at a period indefinitely future.
But in this case we still lack the evidence that the vital
principle adheres to these ethereal relics of the inhumed
body, as this unquestionably pertains to that part of our na­
ture which we term the soul, and which we deem capable of
assuming a spiritual corporeity without reference to the body
which it forsakes at death. The grand point which we
Digitized by Google
7 8 THE DOCTRINE OP THE RESURRECTION.
combat throughout is that which affirms that no true resur­
rection cau take place but by means of the re-union of those
principles, soul and body, which constitute our being in
the present life. We maintain, on the other hand, that
neither reason nor revelation countenance the idea of any
such re-union. All the purposes of a future existence and
a state of retribution, we contend, may be answered without
it; and as this view completely disembarrasses the subject of
difficulties which are insuperable on any other, we must hold
its claims on our credence to be imperative.
It would seem then, on the whole, from a collation of all
the grounds on which an opinion is to be formed, that the
judgment of reason would be, that a spiritual body is de­
veloped at death. By spiritual, in this connexion, we mean
refined, subtle, ethereal, sublimated. By the development
of a spiritual body, we mean the disengagement—the extri­
cation—of that psychical part of our nature with which
vital and animal functions are, in the present life, intimately
connected, and which differs from the pure spirit, the intel­
lectual principle, as the Greek V'MD. or sensitive principle,
differs from voiig, the self-conscious intelligence. It is a ter-
tium quid—an intermediate something between the cogita­
tive faculty and the gross body. It is indeed invisible; but
so are many of the mightiest agents in nature, and so are
many of the noblest entities in the ranks of created beings.
We cannot say, indeed, that the evidence of this induc­
tion is demonstrative; it is at best perhaps but presumptive.
Yet the presumption is extremely strong, and it is undoubt­
edly confirmed by the analogy of insect transformations.
Recourse is usually had to this source as affording a beauti­
ful symbol of the separate existence and immortality of the
soul. But if our suggestions are well founded, it seems to
shadow forth the development of the spiritual body rather
than that of the spiritual soul. It is true, indeed, that the
analogy fails on the score of presenting us in the latter or­
ganism a substance more nearly akin to the former than we
Digitized by Google
must suppose will be developed in the case of the spiritual
body; but it is still sufficiently close to illustrate our point.*
Look at that gorgeous variegated tenant of the air, wing­
ing its easy and joyous way over the flowery garden, or the
grassy mead, or along the course of the babbling brook. It
has left its pristine grovelling"body in the dust, into which
it is mouldering away. It can even look down from its
THE TRUE BODY OP THE RESURRECTION. Y9
• In the following exttaot the amtbor evidently has in mind the oom-
sanviewof the resurrection as that of the body at some indefinitely fix­
ture period. Abating this feature of the sentiment, and interpreting the
illustration by our own key, it is strikingly apropot to our present strain
of remark.
" It seems like a resurrection from fixetomb into a fresh life,with celes­
tial destinations. It is so analogous to that which the human spirit is ap­
pointed to undergo, that fixe intellect cannot well avoid viewing the insect
transformation as fixe emblem, the token, the natural herald and promise
ofourown. The ancients, without our Christian Revelation, thought so;
for one of their most pleasing imaginations, yet visible on some of their
gravestones which we dig up, is that of a butterfly over the name or the
inscription which they record. They plaee the insect there as the repre­
sentation of their Psyche—of the animating and surviving sonl; as the
intimation that it will re appear in a new form and region of being. It
is thus analogous to the word ‘ resurgam’ on our hatchments. It beau­
tifully and picturesquely declares, ‘Non omnis moriar—I shall not wholly
die; but I hope yet to rise again.’ The allusion and the applicability are
sostriking, that I cannot but believe that one of the great purposes of the
Deity in creating his insect kingdom was to exoite this sentiment in the
himan heart; and to ruse by it fixe contemplative mind to look forward to
a posable revival from the tomb, as the butterfly from its sepulchral chrysa­
lis. like the insect, the human personality has three states, and changes,
and forms of being, but continues indestructible through all. It emerges
from its ovum into the figure and life of the present fleshybody; it rests in
its earthly grave, nnextinguished, though visible to mortal eye no longer;
and it will emerge from that at the appointed time into its ethereal nature
and immortalized capacities; alwaysthe same self in each transmutation;
never dying or dissolving with its material investment; but surviving, to
bloom in everlasting youth amid the most exquisite felicity—the spiritual­
ized butterfly, with angel wings perhaps, and an imperishable vitality.”—
Timer’s Sac. H ist, o f the W orld, p. 354.
Digitized by Google
80 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
aerial flight, and see the unsightly tenement which it has for­
saken resolring itself into its original elements. Does it
need it any morel Of what conceivable use can that
earthly casement be to it now that it has received another
body, developed out of the old one, adapted to the sphere
in which it moves 1 Could any thing be gained by attach­
ing the burdensome incumbrance of the former structure to
the splendid apparatus of the latter? Is not the original
fabric turned to much better account by being resolved back
into dust, and so going to form the materiel of other worms,
which shall in their turn give rise to other, butterflies ? So
may we justly propose the question of the cut bono in rela­
tion to the resurrection of our former bodies. What pur­
pose can they be supposed to answer, provided we have, as
all reasoning and analogy tends to establish, spiritual bodies
that have emanated from the material—bodies wisely adapted
to a spiritual world ? What desirable accession will they
bring to the conditions of that being upon which we enter
when mortality is swallowed up of life T The elements of our
corporeal frames may eventually find their way into the con­
struction of bodies that shall enshrine some of the brightest,
purest, noblest spirits that ever adorned the creation of God.
Will they not thus be better employed than in being brought
into conjunction with spiritual bodies that are as perfect
without them as the butterfly is without its caterpillar fabric?
The question as to the mutual recognition of the departed
saints, thus clothed in celestial bodies, though naturally
suggested by the view now presented, is one that really offers
no impediment to its adoption. Recurring again to insect
analogies for illustration, if we can conceive the possibility
of two individuals of the caterpillar tribe recognizing each
either as caterpillars, we can readily conceive of their recog­
nizing each other as butterflies. This may be imagined to
be a law of the wondrous transmutation which they undergo.
In like manner, what should prevent the developed spiritual
body of one human being instantly recognizing that of
Digitized by Google
TUE TRUE BODY OF THE RESURRECTION. 8 1
another, when their state relatively to each other is the same
after as before the magnificent transition.*
We are well aware that in view of all this the twofold
question will be at once proposed—What proof is there of
its truth, and, if true, how is it to be reconciled with what
are regarded as the express averments of Holy W rit? We
have already admitted that the solution propounded cannot
be demonstrated to be true, although we doubt not there is
constantly accumulating evidence that it is true; and if it
be, it follows of course that the Scriptures must be inter­
preted so as to agree with it, as otherwise we should have
acknowledged truths at war with each other. Certain it is,
in our view, that the hypothesis, if such we are to term it,
of a resurrection immediately to ensue upon the death of the
body, involves far fewer difficulties than those which embar­
rass the popular apprehensions on the subject. As such we
are driven to it as a refuge; and the mere fact that it is not
incontrovertibly established forms no valid objection against
it, when the common theory "is attended with difficulties
equally formidable. If the letter of revelation holds forth a
view of the doctrine which arrays itself against the clearest
evidence of facts and the soundest process of reasoning, is
there no demand, on the other side, for the reconciliation of
* “ Had the resurrection required a reconstruction of relics, or a
development of stamina, or a reunion of soul and body, it would then have
required a revelation to prove identity, and only by faith could the risen
either know their own persons or be known by others ; but nosuch absur­
dity is involved in a change beyond conception rapid—the occurrence of
an instant, and the perception of consciousness. No relic of the taber­
nacle may remain as a clew to identification ; but no clew is wanted where
no search is instituted; and search is precluded where identity is obvious.
Let the copy be lost when the pattern is found; let the badger skins
vanish when the glory is conspicuous. Not more exactly did the taber­
nacle made with hands correspond to the tabernacle made without hands,
than the form and lineaments of the faithful in the valley with the form
and lineaments of the faithful on the mount."—Stephenson's Christology,
Vol. H. p. 178.
Digitized by Google
8 2 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
Scripture with science? Are we required to hoodwink
our faculties in order to do honor to inspiration ? Now, we
do not hesitate to affirm that the human mind is so consti­
tuted that it cannot but feel the force of the objections which
we have urged against the resurrection of the same body,
or indeed of any body at all, except the spiritual body, which,
we are compelled to believe, is eliminated at death, by
established laws, from the clay tabernacles that we here
inhabit. But if Faith is supposed to be required to reject
what Reason sanctions, is not this in effect to say that we
are called to do homage to God’s word at the expense of
doing violence to his work ?—for the human reason is the
noblest product of Omnipotence. For ourselves, we yield
to no man living in sentiments of profound reverence for the
oracles of Scripture; but we cannot perceive that in cher­
ishing these sentiments we are laid under the necessity of
turning a deaf ear to the sober and enlightened dictates of
our understanding. The only ground on which we can
recognize the claims to preference of one mode of solving
a difficulty of revelation above another is, that it goes fur­
ther towards satisfying the demands of our intelligence, all
things considered, than the other. If, in the present case,
we reject the proposed solution, and fall back o r the com­
mon view, on what grounds do we do it? Let any man
candidly ask himself whether he is conscious of escaping
difficulties thereby. If he adopts the common view, is he
perfectly satisfied with it? Does he not adopt it subject to
all the insuperable objections which his own reason urges
against it ? Can he feel entirely at ease in reposing on such
a basis of belief? We know, indeed, that one may bring
the matter to a summary conclusion by referring it simply
to the Divine Omnipotence, which can, it is said, solve, with
infinite ease, all the problems connected with the resurrec­
tion. Contenting himself solely with the assurance of the
fact, he may say that he perceives no occasion for troubling
his thoughts with any speculations as to the manner in which
yGoogk
THE TRUE BOST OF THE RESURRECTION. 8 3
the factshall be accomplished. We have no disposition to dis­
turb the intellectual repose, the pious quietism, which breathes
forth in this language; but we may still be permitted to sug­
gest that a reflecting reason finds it impossible to contemplate
intelligently the fact, simply as afa c t, without reference to
themode in which it is to be effected. The great question on
the subject is, What is the fact which is asserted, and which
we are required to believe? What is the very thing which
Omnipotence is to do in order to do what is usually deemed
necessary to the resurrection of the body ? If we have not
misconceived the prevalent sentiment of the Christian world,
it is, that the same body which lived, and died, and was buried,
is again to be raised. Let it be granted that this is the
assertedfa c t of Scripture: we array against it the counter
fact, that, as the raised body is to be a spiritual body, it can­
not be the same. Here are two asserted facts in direct con­
trariety to each other. Can the one be intelligently held
without some attempted explanation of the mode in which it
is to be made consistent with the other ? Is it an impeach­
ment of due religious reverence to inquire if there be any
possibility of bringing our faith and our philosophy into
accordance on this head? '
It may, indeed, be replied to this, that the spiritual
body may be in some way sublimated out of the remains
of the material, so that it may still be properly said to
be the same, just as ice, water, and steam may be said
to be substantially the same element. But on this view
we encounter a new difficulty equally destructive to the
theory. H ere, on the one hand, is a spiritual body elim­
inated from the relics of the earthly fabric, and on the
other a spiritual body, forming the investment of the soul,
and on the principle of re-union we have two spiritual bodies
to be united with each other. Is this the doctrine of the
resurrection ? And are we required to do reverence to
revelation by embracing in our creed elements so completely
at war with each other ? Was piety honored in the stem
yGoogk
84 THE DOCTBINE OF THE BESURRECTION.
requisition made of Galileo, that he should content himself
with the literal intimation of the/aci, that the sun revolved
around the earth, when he could adducefacts just as imper­
ative to the contrary? Would it be any relief to his mind
to cite Omnipotence as the grand reconciler of facts which
he was compelled to regard as contradictions? We know
what has been the final issue in regard to the positions of
the Florentine astronomer. The demonstrations of science
in establishing the truth of his theory of the solar system have
established a principle of transcendent importance in the
interpretation of Scripture—that the letter of the sacred
writers does not always accord, especially in matters of phys­
ical science, with the verity of the sense. This principle
geology, at a later date, has strikingly confirmed. We have
for ourselves no doubt that physiology and pneumatology are
destined to afford another illustration of the same principle.
The soundness of the principle, on this ground, will be for
a time earnestly and perhaps angrily contested, as it was in
the case of these two sciences; but, triumphing over all gain­
saying, it will finally struggle into universal admission. It
will be at length every where conceded that the destinies of
our being are to be evolved according to estaJished laws,
and not in violation of them. These laws will be developed
by the progress of scientific research, the conclusions of
which will carry with them a force of authority as irresistible
as the literal announcements of the sacred text; andrnothing
can be gained for the interests of revelation by lilting up a
standard against them.
It will have been seen, from the tenor of the preceding
pages, that the argument from reason leads by fair and un­
forced inference to the conclusion, that the true doctrine of
the resurrection is the doctrine of the development of a
spiritual body at death from the bodies which we now inhabit.
It now remains to inquire what countenance this view of
the subject receives from an equally fair and blameless
interpretation of the canon of Scripture. If the teachings of
Digitized by C j O C H ^ I c
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 8 6
that divine volume array themselves bo unequivocally
and inexorably against the conclusions to which we are
brought by the argument from reason, that we can by no
process of conciliation harmonize the two, undoubtedly we
are required to abide by the Scriptural decision, whatever
violence it may seem to do to our rational deductions. But
this deference to Scripture, in opposition to the demands of
a seemingly incontrovertible logic, can never be claimed but
upon the ground of an absolute assurance of having attained
the true sense of the inspired oracles on this subjeck So
long as a shadow of doubt remains, whether the mind of the
Spirit does indeed peremptorily contradict the voice of our
clearest convictions, it is impossible but that we should
adhere to that judgment which, from the laws of evidence,
we cannot avoid forming. To the question, then, of the
true purport of revelation on this subject we now address
ourselves.
P A R T I I .
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT.
CHAPTER I.
Preliminary Remarks
T h e previous train of our remarks has already inciden­
tally disclosed the principle which we think is to be applied
in the interpretation of those Scriptures that more especially
refer to the subject of the resurrection. It is a principle,
however, o f so much importance as to demand a somewhat
fuller expansion in this stage of the argument. As it really
5
Digitized by Google
80 THE DOCTRINE O f THB RESURRECTION.
lies at tbe foundation of the whole course of exegesis upon
which we now propose to enter, we wish at any rate to state
it with the utmost distinctness, as this may perhaps be tbe
best mode of establishing its truth. Our impression is, that
its strongest proof is contained in its clearest enunciation.
The Bible, as is well known, deals with two distinct
classes of subjects—those which are originally within the
limits of man’s rational powers, and those which are without.
Truths that are purely scientific fall into the former class.
Qod has endowed his creature man with faculties that
enable him to push his inquiries very deep into the recesses
of physical nature, and to make immense discoveries in- her
wide domain. The possession of these powers is itself the
warrant for the freest exercise of them, and the beneficence
of the Creator has, in the vastness of his works, provided a
field in every way commensurate to their boundless range.
Over this field those “ thoughts which wander through eter­
nity” are incessantly prone to expatiate, collecting facts and
forming inductions. The results to which the reason is
brought in its researches in many of the departments of
science may be regarded as certain. The mind, from the
necessity of its own structure, rests in them as demonstrated
truths. It cannot conceive them to be established upon any
higher authority than that which belongs to their own evi­
dence. ' Take, for instance, the department of astronomy,
and consider the process and the result. The astronomer
takes the universe independent of revelation, and
attempts by the m ^ B ^ id observation to ascertain its struc­
ture and its laws. He meets, indeed, with difficulties ; he
is baffled again and again in the several stages of his inquiry;
be sees not how to adjust the apparent discrepancies in the
different parts of the system; but he plies the telescope
afresh; he institutes anew his calculus; the difficulties
vanish, one by one, before him ; the most satisfactory issues
accrue; he comes to conclusions which assume the charac­
ter of absolute demonstration; he enrols them in the class
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 8 7
of known and positive truths; he settles his science on an
immovable basis.
Now we may ask if in all this he is doing wrong. Can
the process or the conclusion be impeached ? Is not crea­
tion free to his searching inquest? Is he not capable
of reaching assured results ? Yet these results in the
science supposed are contrary to appearance. Instead of
finding the earth at the centre of the system, he finds the
sun at the centre. But the Scriptures, speaking according
to appearance, represent the earth as the central body, and
the sun and the stars as revolving around it. What shall
he do? Shall be give up his conclusions because the Utter
of revelation is in conflict with them, when at the same time
he is just as well assured of their truth as he is that there is
any sun or earth at all ? Yet we know that the time has
been when this was required of the astronomer, because he
was going counter to revelation, and he could only avow his
belief by defying the terrors of hierarchical orthodoxy. Yet
the truth has here finally triumphed, and the world reposes
in the admission that on this subject the Bible was not
designed to teach the verities of science.*
* A humiliating lesson on the force of blind prejudice, in its war with
the progress of science, is taught in the following extract from the his­
tory of the proceedings in the case of Galileo, which we have extracted
from an old work of Benedict Piazza, entitled, Dieeertatio Biblico-
Pkyeica, de Literali Proprio Sentu Sacra Scriptures, published at Panor-
. mus, in Sicily, 1734. With a view to economy of space we give an exact
translation of the Latin original. The object of the work is to maintain
the sanctity of the literal sense of Scripture, whatever be the subject on
which it speaks. After laboring this point at great length in a chapter
entitled, “ Systems Mundi Copemicanum sacris literis omnino adversari,
atque adeo plusquam falsum esse, ostenditur,” the writer proceeds
“ The preceding arguments receive at once light and strength from the
censure and decree of the Holy Congregation of Cardinals enacted against
the Copemican system and its defender, Galileo. The history of this
sentence I will first briefly relate. Galileo, the Florentine, having been
denounced to the tribunal of the Supreme Roman Inquisition for affirming
Digitized by Googk
88 TU E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
Thus, too, in the kindred department of geology. Set*
ting aside for the present every thing that inspiration affirms
that the sun was immovably fixed in the centre of the universe, and the
earth revolved round it by a daily motion, the two following propositions
were discussed by the theological censors assembled for the purpose, by
order of the Pontiff and the Holy College ofCardinals, and noted with the
following censures: 1. That the sun is in the centre of the system and
locally immovable, is a proposition absurd in itself, false in philosophy,
and formally heretical, because expressly contrary to sacred Scripture.
2. That the earth is not the centre of the system, nor immovable, but
revolves by diurnal motion, is a proposition absurd in itself, false in phi­
losophy, and, theologically considered, at least erroneous in faith. Con­
sequent upon the declaration of these censures a precept, signed by the
Commissary of the Holy College before Cardinal Bellarmine, was served
upon Galileo by order of the Sacred Congregation held in presence of
Paul V. Feb. 23, 1610, commanding him to desist from that opinion, and
neither to teach nor defend it in any way. A decree was also issued
from the Holy Congregation of the Index, prohibiting the books containing
such doctrine, and declaring it false and wholly contrary to sacred Scrip­
ture. But as Galileo, about sixteen years after, violated this precept by
the publication, at Florence, of a certain dialogue respecting the twofold
system of the universe, the Ptolemaic and the Copemican, he was cited a
second time before the same tribunal, where, in due orderofjustice, a sen­
tence of the following tenor was passed against him under Urban V III.:—
“ ‘ The meet holy name, bfc., being invoked, tee say, pronounce,judge,
and declare that you, Galileo, have rendered yourself vehemently sus­
pected to this body of heresy, forasmuch as you believe and hold a doc­
trine false and contrary to the divine Scriptures, to w it, that the sun is
the centre of the solar system— that it does not move,from east to west—
but that the earth moves— and that it is not the centre o f the system ;
and moreover, that an opinion may be held and defended as probably
true, after it has been declared and defined as contrary to sacred Scrip­
ture ; and consequently, that you have incurred all the censures, and
penalties, bfc., from which it is our pleasure that you be absolved, pro­
vided that previously, w ith a sincere heart and fa ith unfeigned, you do
before us abjure, curse, and detest the above named errors and heresies,
ifc.'”
The document closes by assuring the reader that the “ bonus Gali­
leos” made the prescribed recantation on the 22d of June, A. D. 1633.
The whole affair was thus completely righted, yhe “ Holy Congrega-
yGoogk
THE aCHIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 8 0
concerning the creation and early history of the globe, the
geologist takes oar planet as he finds it, and goes to work to
determine from the globe itself its genesis, and in the tab­
lets of its rocks and strata reads the incontestable proof of
an immensely greater antiquity than that which appears to
be ascribed to it by the literal record of Moses. The evi­
dence on this head is such as the human mind, by its in­
herent laws, cannot possibly resist, when it is fairly spread
before it T he enlightened geologist has no more doubt
in regard to his conclusions, than the astronomer has in re­
gard to his. They stand upon the impregnable basis of a
sound scientific induction. And we ask again, Is he doing
wrong by thus going on, in the first instance, independent of
revelation, and working out his problems by the light of the
evidence which the phenomena of the earth itself afford'(
Is science sacrilege in this sphere of its operations? May
not the earth be studied, as well as the sun and the stars ?
And may not induction here be as legitimate and unim­
peachable as in the sphere of the kindred science? Yet
here too we know that the same jealous fear of periling
the interests of revelation has been evinced as that which
impeded the progress of astronomical truth. The bare
whisper that a longer duration than 6000 years is to be as­
cribed to our earth, has been drowned in a tempest of re­
monstrance on the score of endangering the credit of the
Mosaic annals. But the disciples of geology, assured that
truth may be known to be truth, have calmly held on in the
career of observation and inference, till at length there be-
lion of Cardinals" established the earth at the centre of the system, where
it properly belonged, the sun was sent again whirling upon his daily
circuit, and tlie arch-heretic by a dnsli of his pen, or a word of his lips,
transmuted into a true philosopher and u saint worthy the calendar!
What a pity that, nfter such an orthodox adjustment, the solar system
should itself have fallen back into the very heresy which its expounder
bad renounced, and should have obstinately continued in it to the present
day I
Digitized by Googk
90 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
gins to be a turning of the tide, and many of the earlier
opponents of the modern geology are openly ranging them­
selves in the ranks of its converts.
The question now comes up whether we shall not regard
the human body and the human soul as just as truly a law­
ful theme of independent research, analysis, and solution,
as the etanry heavens or the solid globe. Are we not left
as free by the Creator to abide by the ascertained results of
physiology, as by those of astronomy or geology T Is not
certainty of conclusion as attainable in the one case as in
the other T And is it not just as probable that the Scrip­
tures should speak according to appearance, and in confor­
mity with the then state of knowledge, on this subject as mi
any other t Does revelation in this department, any more
than in any other, preclude the additional light which may
result from clearer investigation and deeper insight in after
ages 1 Is all knowledge exhausted by what is contained in
the literal statements and allusions of the sacred writers in
respect to the constituent properties of our being T On what
principle—by what law—shall we hold ourselves interdicted
from the most zealous prosecution of our inquiries into this
department of the Creator’s works 1
But if inquiry here be lawful, are not the conclusions to
which it brings us to be affirmed with all the confidence
which the evidence warrants 1 And suppose those conclu­
sions should be widely diverse from those suggested by the
literal sense of the scriptural language, are we therefore
called upon to forego them at once T Or, if we adhere to
them, are our ears to be greeted with the fearful mandate
issuing from the ecclesiastical tribunal,—abjure—detest—
curse—as was enjoined upon Galileo T
What now is the obvious matter of fact as regards the
particular subject of our present discussion ? Are not the
Scriptures constructed on this point, as on all others having
respect to physical subjects, in reference to the then state of
knowledge—to the popular impression and belief—among
yGoogk
TBS SCMPTVRAL ABOUMSNT. 91
those for whom they were originally designed ? And did
the Jews and the early Christians know what we know in
relation to our physical organization? Was the science of
animal chemistry developed in those early ages? Were
they skilled in anthropology ? Did they know any more of
the settled truths embraced in this sphere of knowledge
than of those which fall into the department of astronomy
or geology? It avails nothing to say that the Spirit
which indited the Scriptures knew these truths, if the wri­
ters did not. The Spirit knewtoo, equally well, the true
structure of the solar system and the age of the globe upon
which we dwell. Yet be has not seen fit to speak according
to his knowledge on those points, and why should he any
more on this ? If there are actually stages in the progress
of human intelligence; if the collective mind of the race,
like that of an individual, passes through the grades of
infancy, childhood, youth, and maturity; must not a reve­
lation from God, vouchsafed to the earlier generations of
men, adapt itself to their existing intellectual state ? Can a
child comprehend the deep things of a man ? Who then
will suppose that the obvious sense of the letter, on subjects
that admit of continually growing light from subsequent
discoveries, was intended as a fixed standard of import from
whiob no departure was to be allowed ? Would not this be
like requiring the man to continue to wear the garments of
the boy ?
And yet it is unquestionable, that in nothing is the
divine wisdom more conspicuous than in what we may term
the elasticity o f import in the language of the sacred
volume. Emanating from that infinite intelligence which
“ understands the end from the beginning,” which embraces
all truth, and foresees the developments of all created intel­
lect, the inspired word is so constructed that its language
frequently adapts itself, in a remarkable manner, to the
growing light of successive ages, and falls more or less into
harmony with the ascertained verities of things. We do
yGoogk
9 9 TBK BOCTBINK OK TBK BBBVBRKCTION.
not say, indeed, that this is universally and in every respect
the case; for we have seen that in the departments of astro
nomy and geology the simple import of the letter does not
accord with the reality of the facts which we are compelled
to regard as conclusively established. Nevertheless, the re­
mark will be found to hold good to a far greater extent than
we should a priori imagine; and as to the particular subject
of the present discussion, no devout reader of the Book of
books can be insensible to the pleasure of finding, that the
confident assertion of the results of his rational inquiries
brings him so little into conflict with the plain averments of
Scripture; that a fair and faithful exegesis of the sacred text
discloses so striking an accordance between its true sense
and his previous conclusions. Upon this department of our
investigation we now enter.
CHAPTER n.
The Old Testament Doctrine o f the Resurrection.
T he emphatic declaration of the Apostle, that Christ,
through the Gospel, “ hath brought life and immortality to
light,” is evidently not to be understood as carrying with it
the implication, that the doctrine of a future life, and of a
resurrection of some kind, is not contained in the Old Tes­
tament Scriptures. The genuine import of the original
term <fwri£ur, conveys the idea rather of shedding additional
light upon an obscure subject, than that of announcing, de­
claring, or disclosing it de novo; and this is confirmed by
the words of the Saviour himself, Mat. 22, 29: “ Ye do
err, not knowing the Scriptures nor the power of God
from which it is evident, that had they rightly scanned the
purport of their own Scriptures, they would have recognized
the indubitable traces of this grand doctrine. Still it cannot
Digitized by Google
THS SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT.
be dented that the informations couched in the Old Testa­
ment on this theme are comparatively dark and shadowy,
more like the dim and feeble glimmerings of the morning
twilight than the unclouded blaze of the noonday sun. Nor
can we deny that its intimations do not distinguish very pre­
cisely between the doctrine of the resurrection, technically
so termed, and that of a future existence or immortality.
So far at least as the tenet of the resurrection is supposed
necessarily to include the idea of the living again of the
physical body, we shall probably look in vain for a single
passage which unequivocally asserts it; and for the same
reason we shall probably find ample grounds for doubting
whether that view of it is sustained any more by a sound
interpretation of the New Testament. At any rate it may
be pronounced a question of very difficult solution, why, if
it be taught in the New Testament, it is not taught in the
Old, and vice versa.
It is indeed true, that the doctrine of the resurrection
enters into the articles of the Jewish creed, and as their
creed professedly rests upon the Old Testament alone, it
would seem a problem difficult to be solved, whence their
faith on this subject was derived, if not from the writings of
Moses and the prophets. Moses and the prophets do unques­
tionably contain explicit intimations of a future life, even
when we can detect no traces of an allusion to the revival of
the defunct body; and these scattered notices the Jews have
wrought together into the semblance of a theory of a corpo­
real resurrection. They have, doubtless, been the rather led
to this conclusion by understanding, in a literal sense, a num­
ber of passages which, rightly interpreted, speak only of a
mystical or allegorical resurrection—a class of scriptures
which we shall shortly bring under review.
To one who has made the Rabbinical writers on this
head a study, the force of their testimony will be vastly
weakened by their pressing into their service a multitude of
texts which obviously have not the slightest relation to it,
Digitized by Google
04 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E REEVERECTION.
and which can only be made to bear upon it by a violence
amounting to torture. Such an one will be struck, too, by
the endless contrariety of opinion that appears in their
speculations on the theme. One Rabbi ‘ of blessed memory’
says this, another Rabbi ‘ of blessed memory’ says that,
while the citer knows not which to believe, and die reader
sees no sufficient ground for believing either—
»“ each claim­
ing truth, and truth disclaiming both." It would be an easy
matter to fill a volume with the conflicting sentiments of the
Jewish sohools on this subject, but happily we are precluded
the necessity of encumbering our pages with the detail of
their dogmas and dotings. The question is one to be de­
cided by a direct appeal to the oracles of inspiration. T o this
we are competent ourselves, and upon it we now enter;
although it will be inevitable, in the course of our remarks,
to make frequent reference to Jewish interpretations.
CHAPTER III.
Onomatology; Definition o f Terms.
As the drill of our expositions will go to show that the
intimations in the Old Testament of the doctrine of the
resurrection o f the body are at best extremely dubious, so
the occurrence of corresponding terms by which to express
it is in proportion but little to be looked for. As the idea,
however, of such a resurrection is not unknown to the Jew­
ish writers, there are one or two phrases which are by
them somewhat familiarly and technically applied to it.
The principal of these are ¡rwpn and ri’nn, the former de­
rived from n-p to stand up, and the latter from rrn to live.
To the former the Greek word or¿trie or teruouunt, standing
or standing again, corresponds; to the latter, or
yGoogk
THB SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 06
ioonoltjirig, revivification or reviviscence. The use of rtasipn
in this sense is probably to be traced in the main to Ps. 1 .5,
where it is said, “ the ungodly shall not stand (¡rap) in judg­
ment,” which many of the Rabbins understand as equiva­
lent to a denial that the wicked shall rise at the last day.
Thus, R. D. Kimchi on the place : fnim rirranb xb a^sirinn
Maipn as it concerns the wicked, there shall not he to them a
resurrection. The same sentiment is asserted again and again
by other Rabbinical writers, as we shall have occasion in the
sequel to evince. The current Hebrew term for resuscitate
or vivify is rpn in the Piel or causative form, a pertinent
instance of which occurs, Hos. 6 . 2, where, in fact, both
terms are met with. “ After two days will he revive us
(*p;rp); in the third day he will raise us up and
we shall live (¡pro) in his sight.” Hence the phrase rpnn
finnan quickening o f the dead, is of familiar use in the
Rabbinical writings, and traceable to a variety of passages,
which, though conveying the sense of a spiritual or allego­
rical revival only, they have generally interpreted according
to the strictness of the letter, and built upon them the tenet
of a corporeal resurrection. The evidence of this we shall
adduce as we proceed.
The Syriac, while it sometimes employs a phrase literally
equivalent to resurrection o f the dead, makes use, in other
instances, of the term i nuhama, consolation, for ex­
pressing this idea. Thus John 11. 24, 25, “ Martha saith
unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the consolation,
at the last day. Jesus said unto her, I am the consolation
and the life.” Hence, in the Talmud, the day of the resur­
rection is frequently termed rmroh nv' day o f consolation,
and the Targum upon Hos. 6 . 2, has the same diction.
The grounds of this usage will be at once perceived. The
anticipation of a day when the dead should be raised and
enter upon their reward, is the great source of consolation
to the pious in all ages, whatever modifications the ascer-
Digitized by Google
96 THE DOCTRINE 0 7 THE RESURRECTION.
tainment of the exact truth on the subject may bring over
the character of the hope. The Arabic has an equivalent
phraseology, though it frequently employs a term signifying
the return, i. e. of the soul to the body.
The prevailing Greek word used to denote the resurrec­
tion, as is well known, is araoraoig, anastasis, derived from
the verb avUm)fu, to rise, to rise again, to stand up. But
upon the true sense of this term, in this connexion, we shall
enlarge at greater length when we come to consider the
New Testament evidence of the doctrine. In 2 Mac. 7. 9,
we find the term urapiwrig: “ And when he was at the last
gasp, he said thus; Thou indeed, O most wicked man, de-
stroyest us out of this present life; but the King of the
world will raise us up, (etraftlmoif) who die for his laws, in
the resurrection of eternal life.”
There can be no doubt that in all these cases the usage
is founded upon ideas drawn (Tom visible objects and phe­
nomena, and such as were appropriate to a general belief of
the resurrection, the standing up again, of the defunct body.
Tet our concern, in the present discussion, is rhther with the
grounds and reasons of the belief, than with the belief itself.
The truth of the doctrine is one thing, and the Jewish con­
struction of it another. The sense, therefore, in which they
used these various terms, though important to be known,
affords us but little aid in coming at the grand verity itself.
This can be compassed only by a direct appeal to the Scrip­
tures themselves, and for this we are now prepared.
CHAPTER IV.
Examination o f Particular Passages.
We may properly open our array of Old Testament cita­
tions with a passage which, but for the use that has been
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 9 7
made of it, we should never have suspected of bearing at
all on the point in debate. This is the promise made to
Abraham,
G e n e s » XVII. 7, 8.
BEB. ENO. VERS.
And I will establish my cove­
nant between me and thee, and
thy seed after thee, in their
generations, for an everlasting
covenant; to be a God unto
thee, and to thy seed after
thee.
And I will give unto thee,
and to thy seed after thee, the
land wherein thou art a strang­
er, all the land of Canaan, for
an everlasting possession; and
I will be their God.
Upon this Menasseh Ben Israel (De Resum e. Mart. L.
i. c. 1 , § 4,) remarks, “ It is plain that Abraham and the rest
of the Patriarchs did not possess that land; it follows,
therefore, that they must be raised in order to enjoy the
promised good, as otherwise the promises of God would be
vain and false. Hence, therefore, is proved not only the
immortality of the soul, but also the essential foundation of
the law, to w it; the resurrection of the dead.” Mede also
puts the same construction upon the words, and it is gen­
erally adopted by the Millenarian writers, who very unani­
mously regard Mede as their great oracle. In reply, we
observe, (1.) If our previous train of reasoning be sound,
the drift of which is to evince that the future resurrection of
the same body is intrinsically inconceivable and incredible,
it follows that the bodies of Abraham and the patriarchs are
no more to be raised than any other bodies, whatever may
be the language of the letter. What is denied of the race
t* toto, must be denied of the individuals in parte. (2.) The
admitted principles of philology are directly against the pro-
7 a T ib p rrj
wrrii obi* rnab onhrtb
ifjntbii trnbab ij$
p n » r ijrirb i ijb T ir£ i
Dbh? m n jP ' p a
iDTibiab nnb' “
'irp i
yGoogk
9 3 TUB DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
posed rendering. By both the Greek and Hebrew usage the
particle ‘ and ’ is very often synonymous with ‘ even,’ and
should so be rendered, i. e. as exegetical of what goes before.
Thus, 1 Chron. 21. 12, “ The Lord’s sword and the pesti­
lence,” i. e. even the pestilence. Num. 31. 6 , “ The holy
instruments and the trumpets,” i. e. even the trumpets. Epb.
4. 11, “ And some pastors and teachers,” i. e. even teachers.
Mat. 21. 5, “ Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek, and
sitting upon an ass, and a colt the foal of an ass,” i. e. even
a colt. And so in numerous other instances. Here, there­
fore, the meaning undoubtedly is, “ Unto thee,even to thy
seed after thee, will I give it.” This is all that is fairly
included in the promise, the immediate object of which is
not a heavenly but an earthly Canaan. In fact, in the 18th v.
of ch. 15, as if to preclude the possibility of any mistake re­
specting the mode of the accomplishment of the promise, it
is more explicitly defined as follows:—“ In that same day
the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed
have I given this land.” “ But had the historian,” says
Warburton, “ omitted so minute an explanation of the
promise, yet common sense would instruct us how to under­
stand it. A whole country is given to Abraham and his
seed. His posterity was his representative; and therefore
the putting them into possession was the putting him into it.
Not to say, that when a grant is made to a body of men col­
lectively, as to a people or family, no laws of contract ever
understood the performance to consist in every individual’s
being a personal partaker.” (Div. Leg. B. ii. § 3.) Indeed,
if the Millenarian hypothesis be correct, the inheritance of
the land of Canaan by the seed of Abraham in the flesh
was never a matter of promise. As far as the east is from
the west, therefore, is this passage from teaching any thing
at all concerning the resurrection.
We may next cite the well-known passage from Job, ch.
19. 25-27, which is not only regarded, in popular estima­
tion, as perhaps the most explicit announcement to be found
id by Google
THE SCftirrCKAI. ARGUMENT.
in tfaeOld Testament of a corporeal resuTTeetion, but one of
the clearest in the whole compass of revelation.
J ob X IX 25-27.
BEB.
ffT
M
i»in ■'baaw r ■
»
a
w
n
m^ns]55 ni? t
t
h
**
Iiribx ntn« ■htoajn
^ ■ w i
:'phi “
trbp *3 -irsV,
OR. Of IXX.
Olia yaq o n aevrog ianv o
ixXvetv fie, em ytfs 6 avaarrj-
eat to dtQfia fiov to arar-
rX e v* t e c v r a • «r«ga yaQ K v -
(hov tavra fioi cvnreHo9ti,
a tjai tfiuvrtp ovteniarafiai,
<t o 6qi9a\fios fiov ¿coquxe,
xai ovx aXXog, navra Se fioi
ovrtere'Xtisrai er x61nq>.
VOLo.
Scio enim, quod rederaptor
meus vivit, et in novissimo die
de terra surrecturus sura ;
Et rursutn circumdabor pelle
mea, et in carne mea videbo
Deum meum.
Q.uem visurus sum ego ipse,
et oculi mei conspecturi sunt,
et non alius; reposita est hsec
spes mea in sinu meo.
ENG. VERS.
For I know that my Redeem­
er liveth, and that he shall stand
at the latter day upon the earth:
And though after my skin
worms destroy this body, yet
in my flesh shall I see God:
Whom I shall see for myself,
and mine eyes shall behold,
and not another; though my
reins be consumed within me.
ENG. VERS.
Fori know that he is eternal
who is about to deliver me, to
raise again upon earth this
skin of mine, which draws up
these things. For from the
Lord these things have hap­
pened to me, of which I alone
am conscious, and not another,
and which have all been done
to me in ray bosom.
ENG. VERS.
For I know that my Redeem­
er lives, and that in the last
day I shall rise from the earth ;
And again I shall be envel­
oped with my skin, and in my
flesh shall I see my God.
Whom I myself shall see,
and my eyes shall behold, and
not another: this, my hope, is
laid up in my bosom.
No one can fail to be struck with the diversity of render­
ings here exhibited. The same feature would be still more
remarkably disclosed were we to multiply, as might easily be
done, the translations, ancient and modern, which interpret­
ers have given of the passage. It would, perhaps, be impos­
Digitized by Google
1 0 0 TH E DOCTRINE OP T H E RESURRECTION.
sible to cite any paragraph in the whole compass of reve­
lation marked by greater variety of construction than
the present. This does not prove, indeed, that the pas­
sage is intrinsically unintelligible, but it proves that it
cannot at once and confidently be assumed as bearing
upon the point to which it is often applied. The mere
letter of the English version does not afford a warrant
sufficiently strong for adducing the passage in proof of the
resurrection. The propriety of such a reference obviously
depends upon the soundness of the interpretation which
makes the language of Job a prediction of the Messiah—a
view which has indeed been held by many commentators in
different ages of the church, but against which the most
serious objections exist.
(1.) The book of Job was not written by a Jew nor in the
country of the Jews, and therefore not by one who was among
the inheritors of the promise of the Messiah, or who is to
be supposed a priori to have had any knowledge of a Mes­
siah. Nor is there any other passage in the whole book
importing that Job knew any thing of such a promised per­
sonage as the Jews understood by their Messiah. The book
is not in its genius a Messianic book, but one purely theistic;
and we are not at liberty, from the simple occurrence of the
title ‘ Redeemer,’ which we shall soon show to be more
correctly translated by another term, to assign to the book
a character which it has no adequate evidence of pos­
sessing.
(2.) Had the present passage really contained such an
explicit declaration of Job’s faith in a coming Messiah as is
generally supposed, it is certain that he would have been
entitled to a conspicuous place in that roll of ancient wor­
thies, recited in the eleventh of Hebrews, who “ have by faith
obtained an excellent report.” But no mention of him occurs
in that catalogue, nor is he ever cited in the New Testament
as an example of faith, but simply as a pattern of patience.
. (3.) Were the words before us to be justly regarded as
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 101
expressive of his belief in the promised Redeemer of the
Jewish Scriptures, it would have given him a just claim to
the character of a prophet, as well as a believer; yet we find
no intimation of his ever being deemed to possess that
character, nor is this passage ever once alluded to by the
Apostles in their controversies with the Jews in regard to
the Old Testament predictions of Christ.
For these reasons we are constrained to dissent from any
view which recognizes these words of Job as referring to
the Messiah; and just so far as the evidence is weakened on
this score, so far do they lose their force as a testimony to
the doctrine of the resurrection.
But we have more positive proof from exegetical sources
that no such allusion is couched in the language.
The original word answering to ‘ Redeemer,’ is bxi
Goel, which is variously rendered by interpreters vindicator,
■
avenger, deliverer, and is the term applied to him whose office
it was to avenge the blood of a near kinsman, or to redeem
a possession which had been alienated by mortgage or oth­
erwise, as the kinsman of Naomi is said to have been the
Goel or redeemer of the estate which Boaz bought upon his
marriage to Ruth. Here then we may suppose it to be ap­
plied to God considered in the character of a vindicating or
avenging patron of Job, who would appear as the asserter
and defender of his injured innocence—innocence, that is,
so far as the unjust charges and accusations of his professed
friends were concerned. This divine Vindicator or Re­
deem er Job was assured was ‘living,’ however his power
m ight now seem to be in abeyance, and that he would one
day appear standing up in his behalf, but frail and moulder­
ing dust though he were, and his skin and his flesh con­
sum ed by the force of his wasting disease. He is still con­
fident that in his flesh, restored to strength and beauty, he
shall yet in this life see, with his own eyes, his divine De­
liverer appearing in his behalf and graciously vindicating
his cause. It is the language of assured confidence in the
Digitized by Googk
102 TH E DOCTHIKC O r TH E BECU&ESCTION.
issue which is expressly recorded in the closing chapters of
the book, among the informations of which we learn, that
the afflicted saint at length declared, chap. 42. 5, “ 1 have
heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye
seeth thee.”
This then we conceive to be the fair and unforced inter­
pretation of this remarkable passage, of which Rabbi Me»
nasseh Ben Israel says (De Resur. Mart. L. ii. o.3), “ There
is nothing in it in any way relating to the resurrection; nor
doth it appear that any of the Hebrews ever understood it
in such a sense. The meaning and import of the words is
this; I know that he who is the Redeemer of my soul, and
translates it to a seat of happiness, is living and eternal
through all ages.” Yet this is said by a writer who does
not scruple, by the most far-fetched perversion, to press into
his service, in proof of the resurrection of the body, such
texts as the following: 1 Kings 1.31, “ Let my lord king Da­
vid live forever.” Ex. 19. 6 , “ And ye shall be unto me a
kingdom of priests, and an holy nation.” Num. 15. 30, “ But
the soul that doeth aught presumptuously, that soul shall be
cut off from among his people.” Deut. 4. 4, “ But ye that
did cleave unto the Lord your God, are alive every one of
you this day.” And so with a multitude of others equally
irrelevant. How is this to be accounted for on the supposi­
tion that Job’s words were ever understood by the Jewish
church to refer to this subject? Would it not be the first
text to which they would have had recourse ?
The necessity of a more extended discussion of this
passage is precluded .by the very ample and able investiga­
tion of it, into which Mr. Barnes has entered in his elabo­
rate commentary on this venerable book, in which, ailer
summing up, in a masterly manner, the arguments for and
against the common interpretation, he comes to the clear
conclusion that it contains no reference either to Christ or
the resurrection. He closes the discussion with the follow­
ing remarks, to which we cordially assent:—‘‘So far as I
yGoogk
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 108
can see, all that is fairly implied in the passage, when prop­
erly interpreted, is fully met by the events recorded in the
close of the book. Such an interpretation meets the exi­
gency of the case, accords with the strain of the argument
and with the result, and is the most simple and natural that
has been proposed. These considerations are so weighty in
my mind that they have conducted me to a conclusion,
coatrary, I confess, to what I had hoped to have reached, that
this passage has no reference to the Messiah and the doctrine
ofthe resurrection. We do not need it—for all the truths res­
pecting the Messiah and the resurrection which we need, are
fully revealed elsewhere: and though this is an exquisitely
beautiful passage, and piety would love to retain the belief
that it refers to the resurrection of the dead, yet truth is to
be preferred to indulgence of the wishes and desires of the
heart, however amiable or pious, and the desire to find cer­
tain doctrines in the Bible should yield to what we are con- '
strained to believe the Spirit of inspiration actually taught ^
I confess that I have never been so pained at any conclusion
to which I have come, in the interpretation of the Bible, as
in the case before us. I would like to have found a distinct
prophecy of the Messiah in this ancient and venerable book.
I would like to have found the faith of this eminent saint
sustained by such a faith in his future advent and incarna- .
tion. I would like to have found evidence that this expec­
tation had become incorporated in the piety of the early
nations, and was found in Arabia. I would like to have
found traces of the early belief of the doctrine of the resur­
rection of the dead sustaining the souls of the patriarchs
then, as it does ours now, in trial. But I cannot. Yet I
can regard it as a most beautiful and triumphant expression
of confidence in God, and as wholly worthy to be engraved,
as Job desired it might be, in the solid rock for ever, that the
passing traveller might see and read it; or as worthy of that
more permanent record which it has received by being ‘print­
ed vx a . b o o k ’—by as art unknown then, and sent down to
Digitized by Google
104 THE DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
the end of the world to be read and admired in all gen­
erations.”
Another passage supposed to bear upon this point is
adduced from
P s a l m XVL 9, 10.
HEB.
Tto? ."ab irais *ßb
in à z b Y3'^r “
',r ô a T £
bisœ
b ■
’iss: ¿terrkb "3
m * “b ’ ‘$ r r î é
’ s r r w
. rr
ENQ. VERS.
Tlierefore my heart is glad,
and my glory rejoiceth: my
flesh also shall rest in hope.
For thou wilt not leave my
soul in hell; neither wilt thou
suffer thy Holy One to see cor­
ruption.
The fact of a resurrection is undoubtedly taught in these
words, and yet from the inspired comment of Peter, Acts
2. 29-31, it is clear that it is a resurrection predicated of
the body of Christ, and not of the bodies of men in general:
“ Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the
patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his
sepulchre is with us unto this day. Therefore being a
prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to
him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he
would raise up Christ to sit on his throne; he, seeing this
before, spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul
was not led in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption.”
To the same purpose is the use made of this passage by
Paul, Acts 13. 32-37 : “ And we declare unto you glad
tidings, how that the promise which was made unto the
fathers, God hath fulfilled the same unto us their children,
in that he hath raised up Jesus again ; as it is also written in
the second Psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten
thee. And as concerning that he raised him up from the
dead, now no more to return to eorruption, he said on thiB
wise, I will give you the sure mercies of David. Wherefore
he saith also in another Psalm, Thou shalt not suffer thy
Digitized by Google
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 105
Holy One to see corruption. For David, after he had served
his own generation by the will of God, fell on sleep, and was
laid unto his fathers, and saw corruption : but he, whom
God raised again, saw no corruption.” Nothing can be more
obvious than that what is here said of the resurrection pro*
phetically announced by the Psalmist, must be understood
exclusively of the resurrection of Christ, as preparatory to
his entering upon the exercise of his sovereignty as head of
the eternal kingdom over which he was destined, in the
counsels of heaven, to preside. Of the body which is here
said to rise, it is predicted that it “ shall not see corruption,”
but this could neither be said of David nor of the great mass
of the human race. Their bodies do see corruption. This
isso pre-eminently the lot of our fallen humanity, that we are,
each of us, forced to adopt the language of Job, and “ say
to corruption, thou art my father; and to the worm, thou
art my mother and my sister." It is from corruptible that
we are to be changed and put on incorruption. How then
can this passage be adduced in proof of the general doctrine
of the resurrection of the body ?
The doctrinal deductions on any subject drawn from the
established English version of the Bible, must be judged of
weight only so far as that rendering justly represents the
sense of the original. In the present case it is beyond
question that the words of the Psalmist are very variously
rendered by different commentators. But even admitting
that the established version were strictly correct, a perfectly
fair construction of the language would be to understand it
as describing the blissful transition of the disembodied spirit
from earth to heaven at the moment of dissolution. In this
Psalm XVII. 13.
her. ENG. VERS.
be satisfied, when 1
with thy likeness.
Digitized by Google
106 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION*
sense, as relating to the passage of a redeemed saint through
the ralley of the shadow of death into the immediate frui­
tion of God, it beautifully portrays the surprise, and won­
der, and delight of which the emancipated soul of the be­
liever will be conscious, when, in a moment—in the twink­
ling of an eye—he finds himself raised from the gloom of a
dying bed to the beatific vision of God and the Lamb. As
the weary traveller, who has surrendered himself to a brief
repose, is filled with joy when he opens his eyes upon a bright
sun, a serene sky, and an enchanting prospect; so when the
Christian passes through the momentary night of death, to
the unclouded glory of an eternal day, he will indeed be
‘ satisfied.’ His soul will be satiated with the enrapturing
scene that bursts upon him. He will then not only behold
the ‘ likeness ’ of God in him who is “ the brightness of his
glory, but the express image of his person,” but he will be
himself conformed to that likeness, and so be fully prepared
for the experience of inexhaustible felicities in the divine
presence.
That the term nsinn is used to denote the manifested
presence of Jehovah, equivalent to ff'in face, is clear from
Num. 12. 8 : “ With him (Moses) will I speak mouth to
mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the
similitude (njisn) of the Lord shall he behold.” This is in
effect the same as the Shekinah, in reference to which Rabbi
Menahem thus comments upon the present passage: “ There
is no coining before the most high and blessed King with­
out the Shekinah, to signify which thing it is said, ‘ I in
righteousness shall behold thy face.’ ” Assimilation to this
image is the privilege of the beatified saints, and it may be
that Paul has a latent allusion to the present passage when
he says, “ As we have borne the image of the earthly,
so shall we bear the image of the heavenly.” If it be said,
that this would bring it into connexion with the future res­
urrection, which is there the subject of the apostle’s dis­
course, we reply, that this may be admitted without admit-
Digitized by Google
T H * SCBIPTUKAL ABGUMENT. 107
ting the resurrection o f the body, which is the only point in
dispute.
This then must be conceded to form a rery appropriate
and unimpeachable sense of the Psalmist’s language, taken
as it stands in the current version, and this is all that can
fairly be made out of it. It contains no necessary implica­
tion of a future resurrection of the body. But in fact the
words of the original (ijnHBn ■ppna) are susceptible of an­
other meaning, and one too sustained by a greater array of
critical authorities. The ‘ awaking’ is by them for the most
part constructed with ‘ thy likeness,’ and not with the person
of the speaker—“ I shall be satisfied in the awaking of thy
likeness.” Thus the Isa, A t the appearing o f thy glory,
Vulg. Cum apparuerit gloria tua, when thy glory shall ap­
pear. So also the Arab, and Ethiop. Bp. Horsley, When
thy likeness is awakened. Street, When thy glory awaketh.
Geddes, W ith the re-appearance o f thy countenance. Casta­
lio, When thy likeness shall be awaked. The Syriac indeed
has, When thy truth, orfaithfulness, shall awake. But this
arose unquestionably from their reading in the original
^ns-itsit thy truth instead of thy likeness. The Jew­
ish commentator, Jarchi, is peculiar : I shall be satisfied
when the dead shall awakefrom their sleep. This preserves
the general sentiment of the test, but leaves it doubtful at
what period this ‘ awaking of the dead ’ is to take place.
Adopting then the grammatical construction above sug­
gested, Hammond understands by God’s ‘ image awaking,’
his powerful and glorious interposition for Daniel’s rescue
in this world from the hands of his enemies. For ourselves
we still incline to the former rendering, which is decidedly
more agreeable to the accents, that seldom fail to indicate
the true sense; and guided by them we would translate, “ I
shall be satisfied, in the awaking, with thy likeness,” under­
standing it o f the beatific vision to be enjoyed at the illus­
trious period of the ‘ awaking ’ so often spoken of in the
prophets as identical with the great consummation, when the
Digitized by Google
108 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
righteous dead are to be gloriously manifested as risen from
the dead, but not in a sense to include a resurrection o f their
bodies. The main idea will perhaps be more palpable by
viewing the passage in connexion with another which seems
to stand in designed contrast with it: Ps. 73. 20, “ As a
dream when one awaketh (■'■'JS in the awaking) ; so, 0
Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image.”
Here the image of the wicked, whatever be implied by it, is
opposed to the image or likeness of God. Their pomp
and pageantry and splendor, constituting the ‘ vain show’
(nbx image) in which they walked, will be but for a mo­
ment—it can yield them no permanent satisfaction—God
will blow upon it, and it shall vanish as a dream. But the
image or likeness of God, which was the object of the Psalm­
ist’s devout aspirations, is but another name for all that could
yield the most permanent bliss, and therefore he would be
‘ satisfied ’ with it in his final ‘ awaking.’ This expression
will come before us for further consideration in the sequel.
Here again we are presented with a vivid contrast be­
tween the prospective lot of the righteous and the wicked.
The Psalmist having mentioned the rich man as not abiding,
but resembling the beasts and perishing, and those who fol­
low him, approving his maxims and imitating his example,
he goes on to say, as we interpret his language, that “ as
P s a l m XLIX. 14, 15.
Like sheen they are laid in
the grave; neath shall feed on
them: and die upright shall
have dominiou over them in
the morning; and their beauiy
shall consume in the grave
from their dwelling.
But God will redeem my
soul from the power of the
grave ; for he shall receive me.
Selah.
Digitized by Google
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 0 9
sheep are brought at nightfall to the folds and there penned
by their shepherd, so the wicked, when the night of their
desolation arrives, are placed in Hades by Death, who acts
the shepherd towards them (nS'i'i lit. pastorizes them). But
the righteous survive to tread upon their dust, and triumph
over them. Though despised during their life and trampled
to the ground by their lordly foot, yet the tables are now
tamed, and in the morning succeeding their death the
righteous have dominion, as the children of Israel had do­
minion over the Egyptians in the morning after their de­
struction in the Red Sea—or as an enemy might be said to
have triumphed in the morning over the army of Sennache­
rib slain in the night. Their goodly forms, with all 'their
beauty, are now turned to loathsome masses of putrefaction,
and become the prey of corruption and worms ; and how­
ever splendid the dwellings they have left, yet now they are
doomed to remain for ever, without hope of redemption,
in the gloomy regions of Hades to which they have gone
down. But thanks be to God, my prospect is not like theirs.
I have hope in my death. Though I may be called to sub­
mit to the universal law of ‘ dust to dust,’ yet I shall not,
like them, remain irrevocably under the power of the grave
(bixti hades). God wpl redeem my soul from its thraldom
and graciously receive me to the joys of his presence for
ever.”
This we deem, in the main, a correct paraphrase of a
passage, the literal construction of which has given rise to
vast perplexity among commentators. It yields to our
minds no evidence of the resurrection of the body, unless
it can be shown that ‘ soul ’ means ‘ body and if the soul
be understood as denoting the spiritual body (ipvxv) we do
not object to it. But on this view the resurrection takes
place when the spiritual body leaves the material, which, as
before remarked, we believe to be the true doctrine. As
to interpreting the ‘ morning’ here of the morning of the
resurrection, we can only say it is a sense of the phrase
6
Digitized by Google
¿1 0 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
which can carry with it no authority, for it is sustained by
no proof. It rests only upon a fancied analogy, which gives
rise to an apparently apt and happy mode of speech. A
cardinal tenet of theology needs a more solid basis to stand
upon. The general sentiment of the passage is strikingly
akin to that of Prov. 14. 32, “ The wicked is driven away
in his wickedness, but the righteous hath hope in his death.”
The prevailing tenor of the Old Testament intimations un­
doubtedly is, that as the wicked in this life are really sunk
in a moral or spiritual death, so this state of death contin­
ues interminably, and nothing is said of their being ever
awakened from it. It is on this ground doubtless that the
current of Jewish interpretation .denies that they have any
part in the resurrection ; but this fact is very far from teach-
ipg that they do not actually live in an immortal and miser­
able existence beyond the grave. But our concern with
the Psalmist’s words is simply in their relation, or appre­
hended relation, to the resurrection o f the body.
The following additional passages, which are character­
ized by a general identity of import, may be properly classed
together:
P s . 7 3 . 2 3 , 2 4 , “ N e v e r t h e l e s s I a m c o n t i n u a l l y w i t h t h e e ; t h o u h a s t
h o l d e n m e b y t h e r i g h t h a n d . T h o u s h a l t g u i d e m e w i t h t h y c o u n s e l , a n d
a f t e r w a r d r e c e i v e m e t o g l o r y . ”
P s . 3 3 . 1 8 , 1 9 , “ B e h o l d , t h e e y e o f t h e L o r d i s u p o n t h e m t h a t f e a r
h i m , u p o n t h e m t h a t h o p e i n h i s m e r c y ; t o d e l i v e r t h e i r s o u l f r o m d e a t h ,
a n d t o k e e p t h e m a li v e i n f a m i n e . ”
P s . 5 6 . 1 3 , “ F o r t h o u h a s t d e l i v e r e d m y s o u l f r o m d e a t h ; w i l t th o u
n o t d e l i v e r m y f e e t f r o m f a l l i n g , t h a t I m a y w a l k b e f o r e G o d i n t h e l i g h t o f
t h e l i v i n g ? ”
We wave all remarks on these citations, as the reader
will have no difficulty in judging for himself how much or
how little relation they have to the general subject under
discussion. That they may be construed into a remote ref­
erence to a future life, is perhaps to be admitted ; but as
their relation to our present theme is still more remote, we
Digitized by Google
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. Il l
can better appropriate the space that might otherwise be be­
stowed upon them. We advert to passages of a different
character.
. I sa ia h XXV. 7, 8,
HUB. ENG. VERS.
n j n “ifia
-bs-bi TOiicsn ns&Epn
' 5tr ia n
n
ttB
*i ns?b man
-b
3bsa n'sttif nVr rhx
b?a t o ; i s i fis rm d^ b
inaii nin- "
3-pitrrbs
These words come in as part of a splendid pman or
triumphal song, anticipative of the victory of the Lord’s
people over all their enemies, in the period referred to. This
period is by all but universal consent assigned to the times of
the M essiah; but as this is a very general designation, we
seem to be guided by the items of the text to that particular
era of the Messiah’s reign, when the great antichristian city,
the mystical Babylon, shall be destroyed, and the redeemed
saints made to exult over the ruins to which it is reduced.
It is intimated that at that time this illustrious triumph
should be celebrated as with a joyous feast, in which all be­
lieving people should be partakers, who are represented as
convened for the purpose at Mount Zion in Jerusalem, which
then becomes the magnetic centre of all true worshippers.
At that time, it is moreover predicted, the Lord God will
abolish death forever, and obliterate the tokens of sorrow
from the faces of all his servants. The ‘ faces of the vail or
covering,’ (uiin *'5B) i. e, the veiledfaces—veiled in sign of
grief and affliction—shall then be utterly done away, and
And he will destroy in this
mountain the face of the cover­
ing cast over all people, and
the vail that is spread over all
nations.
He whll s«follow up death in
victory; and the Lord God will
wipe away tears from off all
faces; ana the rebuke of his
people shall be taken away
from off all the earth: for the
Lord hath spoken it.
Digitized by Google
112 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
every one assume “ the garments of praise for the spirit of
heaviness.” As to the ‘ death’ here spokén of, we hesitate
not to understand it with Vitringa, RosenmOlIer, and others,
not as ‘ death ’ in its natural and ordinary acceptation, but
as another term for all manner of grievous afflictions, perse­
cutions, wars, pestilences, sicknesses, every thing, in fact, of
a deadly and desolating nature—every thing which causes
grief, mourning, and tribulation. It is that kind of death
of which the Psalmist speaks \yhen he says, Ps. 44. 22, “ For
thy sake are we killed all the day long,” and of which it is
predicted in thé parallel prophecy of the New Jerusalem,
Rev. 2. 1. 4, “ There shall be no more death,” i. e. no more
premature death by disease, pestilence, casualty, the sword
of war, broken hearts, or any form of wasting judgments.
This is the kind of death that shall be swallowed up in
victory, or, as the term is otherwise rendered, ‘ forever,’ at
the time to which the oracle points forward. That this time
is not the end of the world, or the winding up of the great
mundane dispensation, is perfectly obvious from the context.
For it will be seen that this hallowed carnival of Zion is
merely the ushering in of a state of permanent rest, peace,
prosperity, and glory, during which Moab, or all the alieD
enemies of the church, shall be put down, and all the prom­
ises of abiding blessedness to the Christian kingdom be
realized.
But it will be said that Paul has quoted this passage,
1 Cor. 15. 54, and unequivocally applied it to the grand
era of the resurrection of the dead, which must, of course,
be synchronical with the termination of this world’s desti­
nies and the final scene of judgment: “ So when this cor­
ruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall
have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the
saying which is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.”
To this we reply, that such cannot be the meaning of Paul,
provided it be not the meaning of Isaiah. The Spirit that
presided over both cannot utter oracles at variance with
Digitized by Google
T U E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 1 3
themselves. But nothing can be more obvious, from the
whole drift of the prophet’s strain, than that he is not speak­
ing of the end of the world. He is merely setting before
u$ one of the links in the great chain of events which are
to distinguish the latter days of Zion’s welfare. How then
is the apostle’s.quotation to be understood 1 An alternative
of constructions is presented. He either cites the language
of Isaiah as containing an announcement, the words— the
letter—of which are strikingly applicable to the state of
things which he is describing,.without assuming that they
were originally intended to refer to it ; or, acting the part of
an inspired expositor of Isaiah, he applies his language to
the period of time which the Holy Ghost had in view in in­
diting it through the prophet ; and this brings us irresistibly
to the conclusion, that the epoch of the resurrection de­
scribed by Paul is not to be placed at the end of the world,
which Isaiah’s abolition of death certainly is not. This idea
is doubtless somewhat favored by the mention, in the same
connexion, of the ‘sounding of the last trumpet,’ which, as
it must be considered as identical with the seventh Apoca­
lyptic trumpet, announces an order of events to commence
with “ the kingdoms of this world becoming the kingdoms
of our Lord and of his Christ,” as is evident from Rev. 11.
15 : “ And the seventh angel sounded, and there were great
voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are
become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ ; and
he shall reign forever and ever.” But this, so far from
being the final consummation of the globe or the human
race, is merely the commencement of its ultimate bliss and
glory. W ith the data now before him the reader must form
his own judgment of the principle on which the apostle’s
quotation is made, as also of the degree of evidence which
the present passage affords of the doctrine of the resurrec­
tion of the body. If, as we shall endeavor to show in the
sequel, thé language of Paul in the 15th of Corinthians
Digitized by Googk
1 14 TH E DOCTRINE OP TH E RESURRECTION.
yields no countenance to that theory, it certainly cannot be
considered as taught in the parallel language of Isaiah.
I sa ia h XXVI. 19.
HEB. ENG. TER8.
■pffip? Thbstì ? p n a sprr
■s i s ? r ô ÿ ttsn i w p n
ï ^ e n 'rix bo
T ‘ /TT ‘
Thy dead men shall live, to­
gether with my dead body shall
they arise. Awake and sing,
ye that dwell in dust: for thy
dew is as the dew of herbs,and
the earth shall cast out the
dead.
The present passage can only be rightly apprehended by
viewing it in connexion with the preceding context, com­
mencing at v. 13. As the general scope of the chapter is
to celebrate the national deliverance from exile and bondage,
and the destruction of the enemies who had tyrannized over
them, so the drift of this paragraph is to draw a graphic con­
trast between the lot of their former lordly oppressors, and
the favored and felicitous condition of the chosen people
themselves. “ O Lord our God, other lords beside thee
have had dominion over us; but by thee only will we make
mention of thy name.” However their sins had reduced
them to the hard rule of other lords and masters, and extorted
from thent a forced homage to their captors, yet henceforth
they will know such subjection no more, but will profess alle­
giance only to the true God, their covenant Lord, and make
mention of his name alone. “ They are dead (oina dead
Dun, corpses), they shall not live (live again); they are de­
ceased deceased giants or tyrants), they shall not
rise; therefore (*)?^=“
iW
R *|?^ by reason that, because. Gesen.)
thou hast visited and destroyed them, and made all their
memory to perish.” Such was to be the doom of their adver­
saries. Then, after descanting upon the blessings of their
restoration—the enlargement of their territory—the increase
of their population, and their former weakness compared
with their present'strength—the restored nation, in the per­
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 1 5
son of the prophet, bursts forth into the language of strong
assurance, and exclaims, “ Thy dead men shall live, together
with my dead body shall they arise : awake and sing, ye that
dwell in dust; for thy dew is as the detir of herbs, and the
earth shall cast out the dead.” The translation of Lowth
gives, we think, the true sense with more precision :
T h y d e a d s h a l l l iv e , m y d e c e a s e d , t h e y s h a l l a r i s e ;
A w a k e a n d s i n g , y e t h a t d w e l l i n d u s t !
F o r t h y d e w i s a s t h e d e w o f t h e d a w n ;
B u t t h e e a r t h s h a l l c a s t f o r t h , a s a n a b o r t i o n , t h e d e c e a s e d t y r a n t s .
“ This deliverance,” he remarks, “ is expressed with a
manifest opposition to what is said above, v. 14, of the great
lords and tyrants under whom they had groaned:
T h e y a r e d e a d , t h e y s h a l l n o t l i v e ;
T h e y a r e d e c e a s e d t y r a n t s , t h e y s h a l l n o t r i s e .
That is, they should be destroyed utterly, and should never
be restored to their former power and glory.”
The comment of Mr. Barnes on this passage gives what
we conceive so fair and happy an exposition of its meaning,
that we quote it at length in this connexion. “ In v. 14, the
ehorus (rather the nation, for this idea of a chorus is wholly
conjectural) is represented as saying of the dead men and
tyrants o f Babylon that had oppressed the captive Jews, that
they should not rise, and should no more oppress the peo­
ple of God. In contradistinction from this fate of their
enemies, the choir (nation) is introduced as addressing Je­
hovah, and saying, ‘ T h t dead shall live that is, thy peo­
ple shall live again ; shall be restored to vigor, and strength,
and enjoyment. They are now dead, that is, they are, as I
understand it, civilly dead in Babylon; they are cutoff from
their privileges, torn away from their homes, made-captive in
a foreign land. Their king has been dethroned; their tem­
ple dem olished; their princes, priests, and people, made
captive; their name blotted out from the list of nations;
yGoogk
and to all intents and purposes as a people they are deceased.
The figure is one that is common, by which the loss of
privileges and enjoyments, and especially of civil rights, is
represented as death. So we now speak of a man’s being
dead in law ; dead to enjoyment; dead to his country;
spiritually dead ; dead in sins. I do not understand this,
therefore, as referring primarily to the doctrine of the
resurrection of the dead, but to the captives in Babylon,
who were civilly dead, and cut off by their oppressors from
their rights and enjoyments as a nation. Shall live. Shall
be restored to their country, and be reinstated in all their
rights and immunities as a people among the nations of the
earth. This restoration shall be as striking as would be the
resurrection of the dead from their graves.* Together with
1 1 6 THE DOCTRINE O r THK RESURRECTION.
* M r . B a r n e s , i n a g r e e m e n t w i t h L o w t h , a d d s i n t h i s c o n n e x i o n , —
« T h o u g h t h i s d o e s n o t r e f e r p r i m a r i l y t o t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n o f t h e d e a d ,
y e t t h e i l l u s t r a t i o n i s d r a w n from t h a t d o c t r i n e , a n d i m p l i e s t h a t t h a t
d o c t r i n e w a s o n e w i t h w h i c h t h e y w e r e f a m i l i a r . A n i m a g e w h i c h i s e m ­
p l o y e d f o r t h e s a k e o f i l l u s t r a t i o n m u s t b e o n e t h a t i s f a m i l i a r t o t h e
m i n d , a n d t h e r e f e r e n c e h e r e t o t h i s d o c t r i n e a s a n illustration i s a d e m ­
o n s t r a t i o n t h a t t h e d o c t r i n e o f t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n w a s w e l l k n o w n . ” T h e
s a m e p o s i t i o n w a s a s s u m e d i n t h e e a r l y d a y s o f t h e C h r i s t i a n f a t h e r s .
T e r t u l l i a n ( D e Resur. Cam. c . 3 0 . ) s a y s , “ N o n e n i m p o s s e t d e o s s ib u s
f i g u r e c o m p o n i , s i n o n i d i p s u m e t o s s ib u s e v e n t o r u m e s s e t fo r a figure
would not have been constructed in respect to the bones, i f the same
thing were not to happen to the bones also. J e r o m e , i n l i k e m a n n e r , o n
E z e k i e l ’s v i s i o n o f t h e d r y b o n e s , r e m a r k s , “ N e c s t a t i m h s e r e t i c i s o c c a -
s i o n e m d a b i m u s , s i h æ c d e r e s u r r e c t i o n e c o m m u n i i n t e l l i g i d e n e g e m u s .
N u n q u a m e n i m p o n e r e t u r s i m i l i t u d o r e s u r r e c t i o n i s a d r e s t i t u t i o n e m
I s r e e l i t i c i p o p u l i s i g n i f i c a n d a m , n i s i e s s e t r e s u r r e c t i o i p s a e t f u t u r e c r e d e n -
t u r ; q u i a n e m o d e r e b u s n o n e x t a n t i b u s i n c e r t a c o n f i r m â t nor shall we
at once give advantage to heretics i f we deny that this is to be under­
stood o f the general resurrection ; for a similitude drawn from the
resurrection to denote the restoration o f the people o f Israel, would
never have been employed unless the resurrection itself were believed to
be a fa ct o f future occurrence ; for no one thinks of confirming what is
uncertain by what has no existence. T h e s a m e i d e a i s t o b e f o u n d a ls o
a m o n g t h e J e w i s h w r i t e r s . T h e s e n t i m e n t q u o t e d a b o v e , t h o u g h d o u b t-
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 1 7
my dead body shall they rise. The words ‘ together with ’
are not in the original. The word rendered ‘ my dead body’
(Tjhaj) literally means ‘ my dead body,’ and may be applied
to a man or to a beast. Lev. v. 2, vii. 24. It is also ap­
plied to the dead in general, to the deceased, to carcasses
or dead bodies. See Ps. lxxix. 2. Jer. vii. 33, ix. 22, xvi.
18, xxvi. 23. Lev. xi. 11. Jer. xxxiv. 20. It may therefore
be rendered my deceased, my dead; and will thus be parallel
with the phrase ‘ thy dead men,’ and is used in the same
sense with reference to the same species of resurrection. It
is not the language of Isaiah, as if he referred to his own
body when it should be dead, but it is the language of the
le s s e x p r e s s i n g t h e c o n v i c t i o n o f t h e a u t h o r a t t h e t i m e i t w a s w r i t t e n ,
c a n b e r e g a r d e d i n r e a l i t y o n l y a s a c o n c e s s io n to p o p u l a r n o t i o n s . I f
th e d o c tr i n e o f t h e resurrection of the body w a s w e l l k n o w n to t h e a n ­
c ie n t J e w s , w e w o u l d g l a d l y b e i n f o r m e d w h e n c e t h e y o b t a i n e d i t , a s i t
c e r t a in l y i s n o t t o b e f o u n d i n t h e i r S c r i p t u r e s , a n d w e h a v e n o r e a s o n t o
th in k it w a s a Kpvtpiov ¿6yfia, a m a t t e r o f p r i v a t e r e v e l a t i o n , o f w h i c h t h e
w r i t in g s o f M o s e s a n d t h e p r o p h e t s c o n t a i n n o t r a c e . T h a t t h e y w e r e
n o t i g n o r a n t o f t h e d o c t r i n e o f t h e resurrection of the dead a s e q u i v a l e n t
to a future life o r immortality, i s v e r y r e a d i l y g r a n t e d , b u t t h e d o c tr i n e
o f th e resurrection of the body is q u i te a n o t h e r t h i n g , a s w e s h a l l p r o v e
in t h e s e q u e l . M o r e o v e r , w e o b j e c t to t h e a s s e r t e d principle o f t h e a b o v e
r e m a r k , t h a t a n i m a g e w h i c b r i s a s s u m e d i n o r d e r t o r e p r e s e n t a n y t h i n g
in t h e w a y o f a l l e g o r y o r m e t a p h o r , w h e t h e r p o e t i c a l o r p r o p h e t i c a l , m u s t
b e a n i m a g e c o m m o n l y k n o w n a n d u n d e r s t o o d , a s o t h e r w i s e i t w i l l n o t
a n s w e r t h e p u r p o s e f o r w h i c h i t i s a s s u m e d . W e a ll o w o u r s t r i c t u r e s
u p o n i t t o b e c o n v e y e d , in t h e l a n g u a g e o f M r . N o b l e ( Appeal, p . 5 7 ) :
“ I s n o t t h i s s a y i n g t h a t n o t h i n g m u s t b e u s e d a s a n i m a g e in p o e t i c a l o r
p r o p h e ti c a l l a n g u a g e , w h i c h is n o t a t t h e s a m e t i m e a m a t t e r o f f a c t in
c o m m o n l a n g u a g e . M i g h t w e n o t a s w e l l h a v e s a i d , b e c a u s e t h e L o r d
d e c l a r e s t o h i m t h a t o v e r c o m e t h , i n t h e R e v e l a t i o n , ‘ I w i l l g i v e h i m t h e
m o r n in g s t a r / — •* I t a p p e a r s f r o m h e n c e t h a t t h e b e l i e f t h a t s a i n t s w i l l b e
p r e s e n te d w i t h s t a r e , w a s a t t h a t t im e a c o m m o n a n d p o p u l a r b e lie f * — o r ,
b e c a u s e J o h n s a y s t h a t h e s a w a w o m a n c lo t h e d w i t h t h e s u n , — ‘ I t
a p p e a r s f r o m h e n c e , t h a t to s u p p o s e t h a t a w o m a n m i g h t b e c l o t h e d w i t h
th e s u n , w a s a t t h a t t i m e a c o m m o n a n d p o p u l a r s u p p o s i t i o n / & c . T h e
c a s e s a r e e x a c t l y p a r a l l e l , a n d o n e i n f e r e n c e is a s j u s t a s t h e o t h e r . ”
6*
Digitized by Google
choir that sings, and that speaks in the name of the Jewish
people. That people is thus introduced as saying my dead,
that is, our dead shall rise. Not only in the address to Je­
hovah is this sentiment nttered, when it is said, *thy dead
shall rise,’ but when attention is turned to themselves as a
people they say, *our dead shall rise those that appertain to
our nation shall rise from the dead, and be restored to their
own privileges and land.”* .
This must be admitted to be a very luminous exposition
of an obscure passage, and we would only add to it the re­
mark, that Gesenius and other commentators take the word
■
’nhas in a collective sense—“ my dead bodies”— and this
he says is equivalent to the dead bodies of our people; for
he understands the' people, the nation, to be the speaker
throughout, who sometimes speaks in the first person sin­
gular, and sometimes in the first person plural. The dead
of God’s people, according to Gesenius, may be denominated
either Gods dead or the people’s dead. That the word is to
be taken collectively appears obviously from the connected
verb ■¡io'ip’
i, shall rise, which is plural, and also from the
usage Lev. 11. 11, “ Ye shall have their carcasses (DnVa?)
in abomination,” where the word is plainly a collective sin­
gular. So also all the versions, which, however, for the
most part, change the pronominal suffix. Thus the Vulg.,
Interfecti mei resurgent, my slain shall rise. Chald. Thou
awakest the bones o f their dead bodies. Syr. Their dead
bodies shall arise. Arab. Their dead body (that of the peo­
ple) shall arise at thy command. Kimchi, whose construc­
tion our translators have somehow strangely followed, sup­
plies BS tenth, before ,'rb ;3, making it to mean, they shall rise
in connexion tenth my dead body, which is altogether against
118 TH E DOCTRINE OF T H E RESURRECTION.
* A s o m e w h a t s i m i l a r a b r u p t c h a n g e o f p e r s o n s i s t o b e r e c o g n i z e d ,
Z e c h . 1 4 . 5 : “ T h e L o r d m y G o d s h a l l c o m e , a n d a ll t h e s a i n t s with thee,"
n o t with him, n s i s u n d o u b t e d l y t h e t r u e s e n s e .
yGoogk
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 1 9
the context, as the resurrection spoken of is one that was to
take place during the lifetime of the speaker (the nation)
The latter clause of the passage—“ the earth shall cast
oat the dead”—is perhaps usually understood as perfectly
synonymous with the foregoing, and as referring to the same
subjects. But this is undoubtedly a mistake. The term
for ‘dead’ is which in scriptural usage is a term of
reproach, being the same with that employed above, v. 14,
to denote the deceased tyrants, of whom it is affirmed that
they shall not live again. So that, if in the preceding clause
the doctrine of the resurrection of the body is taught, here
obviously is mention made of a class of men who ate never
to rise again at all in the true sense of a resurtection.
The dead here spoken of are the wicked dead, and more es­
pecially those cruel persecutors of kindred spirit with the
antediluvian rebels, who are primarily designated by this
term in the Scriptures, and of whom it is in effect declared
that the earth casts them out with loathing from her bosom,
as if no longer able to bear the burden of their accursed
dust. For the earth, however, thus to ‘ cast out het dead ’
is not to make them the subjects of a resurrection, but im­
plies rather the utter and final destruction and dispersion of
their remains, as unworthy to be any longer retained in their
resting-place.
Our remarks thus far upon this clause have proceeded
upon the assumed accuracy of the established version, which
makes ‘ earth’ the subject of the verb here rendered ‘shall
cast out.’ But it is to be observed that the words are sus­
ceptible of a very different sense. The root of the verb is
bsj, to fa ll, and b^pn is the future of the Hiphil or causa­
tive form, signifying to cause tofa ll, to cast down; in which
case the rendering may be, “ Thou wilt cause the earth
or land of the giants (tyrants) to f a l l a n d this accounts
for several of the ancient versions, which greatly vary from
our common rendering. Thus the Gr. y 8s yy xmr aaefliar
ntaeTrai, the land o f the ungodly shallfa ll. Syr. B ut thou
Digitized by Google
130 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
wilt overturn the land o f giants. Arab. B ut the land o f the
ungodly shall totter. The wicked to whom thou hast given
power and they have transgressed thy word, thou wilt con­
sign them to hell. Vulg. E t terrain gigantum detrahes in
ruinam, and the land o f the giants thou wilt drag down to
ruin. We feel scarcely competent, amidst this variety of
construction, to determine the precise import of the pas­
sage, but it would seem clear that it is designed to set forth
a striking contrast between the predicted lot of the two dif­
ferent classes of men here described. Of the one a resur­
rection in some sense is affirmed, of the other denied. And
this, we conceive, brings the passage into direct parallelism
with Dan. 12. 2, “ And many of them that sleep in the
dust of the earth shall awake; some to everlasting life, and
some to shame and everlasting contempt,” where the letter
undoubtedly would seem to imply that a resurrection was
predicated equally of both classes. But it will be seen, from
the explication shortly to follow, that the “ shame and ever­
lasting contempt” is but another name of the condition
which results from their not awaking at all. And this
agrees with the general sentiments of the ancient Jews, who
held for the most part that the wicked are never to rise from
the state of death ; because, being spiritually dead even in
the present life, there is nothing in them on which a re-ani­
mating principle can act. With the righteous, on the other
hand, their resurrection is indissolubly connected with their
present possession of spiritual life, of which the resurrec­
tion is but the natural development.* Probably but few
readers of the New Testament have failed to be struck with
the fact, that both our Saviour and the apostle Paul speak
of the resurrection-state as one to be attained only by one
class of men—“ the sons of the resurrection”— and one
* I n t h e J e r u s a l e m G e m a r a ( S ü p p l . ) i t i s s a i d t h a t “ t h e r i g h t e o u s ,
e v e n i n d e a t h , a r e s a i d t o l i v e , a n d t h e w i c k e d , e v e n i n l if e , a r e s a i d t o b e
d e a d . ” — Lightfoot, Opera, v o l . i i . 1 3 1 .
yGoogk
T U E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 121
which is to be struggled into through great conflicts and
tribulations. This fact can only be explained by reference
to the prevailing traditionary sentiments of the Jews on the
subject.
On the whole, we think it must be evident that the pas­
sage from Isaiah now under consideration cannot be appealed
to as teaching, upon a fair construction, the resurrection o f
the body. At any rate, if it conveys such an implication, it
is only in an indirect and typical way, by which a national
resuscitation—the primary sense—dimly shadows forth the
re-erection of the defunct body from its mouldering ele­
ments. But we may properly ask if such a cardinal tenet
of revelation has nothing else to rest upon, as far as the Old
Testament is concerned, than a figure of speech. Whatever
strength the words may appear to possess as bearing upon
the point in question, it is evidently derived from the mere
form of the expression in the English version, “ together
with my dead body,” which we have shown to be a palpable
perversion of the original, where we find nothing answering
to “ together with,” and where the term rendered “ my
dead body,” far from having the least allusion to the dead
body of Isaiah, is merely a collective term for the restored
mass of the Jewish nation.
E zekiel XXXVII. 1-14.*
BEB. ENG. VERS.
¡ T i r r T rifl^n The hand of the Lord was
■" • - T » ~ . ~ r i: ,T upon me, and carried me out
"’JTT’P’^ n i r r tj-TQ in the Spirit of the Lord, and
" T ‘ * set me down in the midst of the
valley which was full of bones,
And caused me to pass by
them round about: and behold,
there were very many in the
open valley; and lo, they were
very dry-
dec.
trrra w n s ib a te r n n y p a
2*ooT ’ B T b ?
■by rris n rrsrÿp s ra o
rria ir n s r n n y p a h \-s
\ ’ T ’ : I k à
& c .
* W e s p a r e o u r s e l v e s t h e m o r e f u l l a n d f o r m a l e x p o s i t i o n o f t h i s p a e *
Digitized by Google
122 T1IE DOCTRINE OF TBE RESURRECTION
The prophet was now in captivity with the Israelites in
Babylon, and being brought into a state of prophetic ecstasy
or trance was led forth in spirit, or ideal transfer, to a val­
ley filled with an accumulation of dry and withered bones,
over which he was commanded to prophesy, in order to their
vivification. The vision then goes on to state, that the bones
came together, were clothed with flesh and skin, were anima­
ted with a reviving breath, and finally, that “ they lived, and
stood up on their feet, an exceeding great army.” If the
reader were to proceed no farther he might conclude that
the grand scope of the vision was to teach the doctrine of
the literal resurrection o f the body; but the Spirit of in­
spiration immediately furnishes the true clew to the oracle,
by expressly assuring us that the bones were symbols, not of
actually deceased men, but of the Israelites in their long-con­
tinued state of extreme affliction and depression, while re­
maining captive in the country of their enemies, as dead
bones in the grave; and that the revivification of the dry
bones is a symbol of the certain revival of the Jewish state,
by the restoration of the people to their own land. For thus
the prophet continues, vs. 11-14 : “ Then he said unto me,
Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: be­
hold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hope is lost; we
are cut off for our parts. Therefore prophesy, and say unto
them, Thus saith the Lord G o d , Behold, O my people, I will
open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your
graves, and bring you into the land of Israel. And ye shall
know that I am the Lord, when I have opened your graves,
O my people, and brought you up out of your graves, and
s a g e i n o u r w o n t e d m a n n e r , f r o m t h e f a c t , t h a t w e h a v e r e c e n t l y g i v e n to
t h e p u b l ic a n e x t e n d e d c o m m e n t a r y u p o n i t , i n a p a m p h l e t e n t i t l e d , “ T h e
V a l l e y o f V i s i o n ; o r t h e D r y B o n e s o f I s r a e l R e v i v e d , ” i n w h i c h w e '
f l a t t e r o u r s e l v e s w e h a v e c l e a r l y e s t a b l i s h e d t h e p o s i t i o n , t h a t t h i s p r e d ic ­
t i o n , i n i t s t r u e s e n s e , h a s n o t h i n g t o d o w i t h t h e resurrection of the dead
body, b u t i s m e r e l y a s y m b o l ic a l f o r e s h a d o w i n g o f t h e s t i l l f u t u r e restora­
tion and conversion of the Jews. W e v e n t u r e t o c o m m e n d t h i s p a m p h l e t
t o t h e a t t e n t i v e p e r u s a l o f t h e r e a d e r .
Digitized by Google
TITE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 123
shall ut my Spirit in you, and ye shall lire; and I shall
place yon in'your own land : then shall ye know that I the
Lord have spoken it, and performed it, saith the Lord."
So far as the letter is concerned, it would be difficult to
find any other passage in the Scriptures, where so much is
said respecting the opening of graves, and the bringing up
out of graves; and yet nothing can be more express, and
consequently more imperative, than the interpretation which
the Spirit of God himself puts upon the prophetic scenery,
and to which the commentator must adhere, whatever infer­
ential additions he may see fit to grail upon it.
We are aware it is contended here also, as in the case
of the preceding passage from Isaiah, that the announce­
ment of a spiritual or figurative resurrection necessarily
supposes a literal. But to this we reply by demanding the
Scriptural evidence that such a resurrection was taught or
believed in Ezekiel’s times. The fact is, it will be found,
if we mistake not, that the usual argumentation on this
head is mere reasoning in a circle. Certain passages, like
those now adverted to, are brought forward, elaborately
commented on, and conclusively shown to refer to a symboli­
cal resurrection. But from the force of established belief it
is strenuously contended, that all these images are founded
upon the doctrine of a literal corporeal resurrection, and
when we call for the proof of this doctrine, lo and behold
we are referred to the very passages which were previously
demonstrated lo have another meaning!
The sound of these words undoubtedly falls on the ear
like the explicit enunciation of the doctrine of the literal
H ose* VI. 2.
ENG. VERS.
‘2 After two days will he revive
• ••-■ us; in the third day he will
fl “ ¡Sp' raise us up, and we shall live
’: in his sight.
Digitized by Google
1 2 4 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
resurrection. Yet upon a more minute scanning of th ;
passage we are perhaps prompted to say with the poet:
“ The voice in my dreaming ear melted away.”
Taken in connexion with the verse immediately preceding,
“ Come, and let us return unto the Lord ; for he hath torn, and
he will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up,” the
‘ reviving ’ and ‘ raising up ’ has very much the air of implying
something which they were to experience as the result of
their penitent return to the Lord who had torn and smitten;
and this certainly does not strike us as altogether consistent
with any action that could be performed by dead bodies in
the grave, of neither of which do the words contain any
mention. It is obvious that in order to deduce from the
passage an unequivocal testimony to the tenet of a bodily
resurrection, it would be necessary to determine who are the
subjects contemplated in the prediction, and when and how
the prediction was, or was to be, fulfilled upon them. It
would undoubtedly seem from the context that the tribes of
Israel, in their bondage and affliction, were the real speakers,
and the query then naturally occurs, whether any period of
three days can be specified in their history when the quick­
ening and the raising up here announced actually took place.
But a moment’s reflection repudiates the idea of any such
mere fragment of time being the true-meant design of the
prophet. A longer period, and of future occurrence, is un­
questionably intended, and the designations of time must be
figuratively understood. How the oracle is understood by
the Jews, who somewhat differ among themselves, will be
evident from the following citations:—“ The two days,” says
R. Solomon, “ are the times of the two punishments which
have taken hold upon us in respect of the two temples which
have been destroyed. In the third day, that is, at the build­
ing of the third temple, he will raise us up.” Rabbi D.
Kimchi reports from other writers a different sense : “ The
two days are a figurative expression of two captivities, the
Egyptian and the Babylonish ; the third day, a like expres-
yGoogk
THE bCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 2 5
sioa of the third captivity in which we now are, from which
he will reuse us up, and we shall live before him, so as that
we shall never more go into captivity, but live forever before
him, because we shall no more sin.” The Chald. paraphrase
would seem to come still nearer the truth : “ He will revive
us in the days of consolation which are to come; in the day
of the resurrection of the dead he shall raise us up, and we
shall live before him.” This latter clause is rendered by
Abarbanel, “ Perpetui in ejus cultu erimus,” toe shall ultoays
abide in his service. On the whole, we think there is a foun­
dation for these interpretations, and with Horsley believe
that the two days and the third day denote three distinct pe­
riods of the Jewish people, as there can be no doubt that
the term ‘ day ’ is often taken in the Scriptures in a very ex­
tended import. “ The first day is the captivity of the ten
tribes by the Assyrians, and of the two under the Babyloni­
ans, considered as one judgment upon the nation; beginning
with the captivity of the ten, and completed in that of the
two. The second day is the whole period of the present
condition of the Jews, beginning with the dispersion of the
nation by the Romans. The third day is the period yet to
come, beginning with their restoration at the second advent.”
(Comment. on Hos. in loc.) That an event denominated a
resurrection was connected, in the minds of the ancient
Jews, with this great day or period of the Messiah, and that
this expectation is sustained by the general tenor of their
Scriptures, is we think beyond doubt. But this still leaves
the question open as to the true nature o f that resurrection—
a question upon which we shall hope to throw light as we
proceed.
To such a period we think there is a designed allusion
in the present text, which will make it to be of very similar
purport with the prophetic intimations of Ezekiel, ch. 37.
1—14, respecting the revival of the dry bones in the valley
of vision. At the same time we know not well how to resist
the evidence, that this passage is also alluded to in the New
Digitized by Googk
126 THE DOCTRINE OF TIIE RESURRECTION.
Testament, and construed in reference to the resurrection of
Christ on the third day. Thus Paul, 1 Cor. 15. 4, saysthat
Christ “ was buried and rose again the third day, according
to the Scriptures.” Here it is contended that there is no pas­
sage in the Scriptures, unless it be the present, where this
fact can be considered as alluded to. It is indeed replied,
that he may have had his eye on the case of Jonah, which
our Lord himself applies in a typical relation to his resurrec­
tion on the third day. But even if this be admitted, it does
not necessarily follow that such was the primary and legiti­
mate design of either of these passages, as there can be no
doubt that the words of the Old Testament writers are occa­
sionally accommodated, from acertain adaptedness in the phrase
or general sentiment, to New Testament facts or doctrines.
Nor yet, on the other hand, can we positively affirm that such
an ultimate bearing of his language was not intended by the
inditing Spirit, to whom all possible applications of his truth
were naked and open. It will be sufficient, in the present
case, to maintain that as the passage, in its original scope,
refers to a signal interposition in behalf of the Jewish peo­
ple, by which they should be raised out of their depression
and crowned with especial tokens of the divine favor/it can
have but a remote reference to the resurrection in any sense,
and to the resurrection o f the body in no other sense than
that of Christ’s body, which, while it is a pledge, cannot be
said to be a pattern of ours, inasmuch as his body did not
see corruption, while ours do.
H osea XIII. 14.
HEB.
m a a tn sK b ia a *na
n i a ï p a n 1 7 « Ü w s«
n ñ ¿ : Dni S is a ï p a g r ¡ á
T ' ' T: “
'r s a
T ♦
* ♦
*
ENG. VERB.
I will ransom them from the
power of the grave; I will
redeem them from death: 0
death, I will be thy plagues, 0
grave, I will be thy destruc­
tion : repentance shall be hid
from mine eyes.
yGoogk
T U B S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 1 27
The fact that the apostle Paul has quoted this passage,
1 Cor. 15. 55, in connexion with his discussion of the resur­
rection, undoubtedly gives it an a priori claim to be regard­
ed as having reference, in the mind of the Spirit, to that
event. Still it is obvious that the true character of the
resurrection, as there taught, must govern the sense which,
in that relation, is to be assigned to the words as uttered by
the prophet. If Paul does not, in fact, in that chapter
teach the doctrine of the resurrection o f the body which dies,
as we shall endeavor to prove, then we cannot suppose that
such a doctrine is to be elicited from the text before us.
The leading idea which it evidently conveys is that of a sig­
nal triumph to be attained over death and hell (Vittiz} Skeol,
Hades—not the grave), amounting, in fact, to their ultimate
abolition, according as it is elsewhere said, Rev. 20. 14,
“ And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire and brim­
stone.” All this may be very readily conceded as the result
of the redemption-work of Jesus Christ, “ who hath abol­
ished death and brought life and immortality to light,” and
the resurrection of the righteous dead, in the true import of
that term, be regarded as the demonstration of this triumph,
while at the same time nothing may be farther from the
real teaching of the Old or New Testament writers, than the
doctrine of the resurrection o f the body; and as this is the
only point in the debate, it cannot be necessary to go into a
critical examination of the passage. But as the form of the
quotation, as made by the apostle, varies essentially both
from the Heb. and Sept., and is almost literally conformed
to the Syriac version, it may not be amiss to introduce in
this connexion the remarks of Bp. Horsley, which will be
found to be of special value on the general subject of the
apostolic quotations from the Old Testament. “ We are not
to assume that the apostle cites a particular passage; and
then to conclude that the apostle’s supposed citation gives
the only true sense of the Hebrew words, which it is our
bounden duty, by all contrivances and exploits of criticism,
Digitized by Google
128 T H E D O C T R IN E OF T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
to bring out of them. We should first inquire whether he
cites or no; and if it should appear that he cites, it might
still be reasonable to inquire whether the general meaning
of the prophecy might not be sufficient for his purpose; or
with what degree of accuracy it was necessary to his argu­
ment, that he should represent the prophet’s words. Now,
upon the most mature consideration of the matter, I am per­
suaded that the apostle’s triumphant exclamation, ‘O Death,
where is thy sting? O Hell, where is thy victory?’ is an
allusion, indeed, to this text of Hosea; an indirect allu­
sion, but no citation of it. The prophecy, which the apostle
cites as one which would receive its completion in the
general resurrection at the last day, is a saying ‘ that is
written,’ which shall then be brought to pass ; this prophecy
is written in Is. 25.8, and nowhere else. And this prophecy
which he cites, he cites with precision. And it may be use­
ful to observe, that he cites it not according to the version of
the lxx. He translates the Hebrew text verbatim, in con­
tradiction to the version of the lxx. ; for the version of the
lxx., in this place, is so wretchedly and abominably errone­
ous, that the sense it gives is exactly the reverse of the sense
of the Hebrew text.
“ The apostle, having cited this prophecy of ‘the swal­
lowing up of Death in victory,’ and looking’ forward to the
great event which he mentions as the yet future completion
of it, he breaks out in those words of triumph which allude
to this text of Hosea. Death and Hell are personified and
apostrophized, both by the prophet and by the apostle. The
purport of the apostrophe, both with the prophet and with
the apostle, is to set forth God’s dominion over Death and
Hell, and his merciful purpose of destroying both the one
and the other. This is categorically asserted by the pro­
phet ; it is indirectly asserted by the apostle, in the shape of
an interrogation. But in the prophet we have no mention
of the sting with which Death is armed in the apostle’s
imagery ; none of victory by the name of victory. On the
Digitized by Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 2 9
other hand, in the apostle we have no mention of the pesti­
lence and the burning plague, to be inflicted, according to
the prophet, upon Death and Hell by God the Saviour. It
may seem that the resemblance between the words of the
apostle and the text of the prophet, upon this comparison,
turns out to be so very general as to leave room to doubt
whether so much as an allusion was intended. But I am
persuaded that an allusion was intended; and my persuasin
rests principally upon these two reasons :—
“ I. It is hardly to be conceived that, when the apostle’s
discourse led him to refer to prophecies of the final aboli­
tion of Death and Hell, this passage of the prophet Hosea
should not come to his mind, which, for the boldness of its
imagery, is far more striking than the passage of Isaiah
which he cites ; which for that very reason perhaps he cites
in preference, as being more explicit and perspicuous, be­
cause less figured and adorned.
“ 2. Notwithstanding that a general resemblance only is
to be found between the apostle’s words and the general
text, these words of the apostle are an exact literal render­
ing in Greek of the Syriac version of that Hebrew text;
except that the words ‘sting’ and ‘ victory’ in the apostle
have changed places.
“ I cannot close this long note without briefly animad­
verting on the plausible but fallacious doctrine of sanction,
supposed to be given to the ancient versions of the Old
Testament by the citation of particular passages of them in
the New. And with respect to the Septuagint in particular,
in behalf of which this sanction is most frequently pleaded,
I observe that what is generally assumed on this subject
is not true, viz., that the citations of texts of the Old Tes­
tament in the New are always from this version. This as­
sumption, I say, is not invariably true. The instances in
which it fails are many. I have mentioned one very remark­
able instance, and I could produce many more.
“ I say, secondly, upon the same principle that a citation
Digitized by Googk
130 THK DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
of the Old Testament by the inspired writers of the New,
according to that particular version, is to be taken as a
sanction of the version ; (upon the same principle) the cita­
tion of a text not in the words of the l x x , more particularly
in words that give a sense directly opposite to their sense,
is a reprobation of the version. And since the inspired
writers of the New Testament cite some passages according
to the l x x , and some not according to the l x x , it fol­
lows, that they sanction the version in some passages and
reprobate the version in others. And neither the sanction
nor the reprobation must be extended farther than to the
particular texts cited. In the texts not cited, we have no
judgment of the inspired writers of the New Testament
upon the merits of the versioft. And as these uncited texts
make certainly the far greater part of the whole book, I shall
contradict no apostle or inspired writer, if I assert, as I do,
ol’ the Septuagint generally, that ancient, respectable, use­
ful, and valuable as it is, and in many parts excellent, it is
not, upon the whole, to be put in competition, for verbal
accuracy, either with our own public translation or with
the Vulgate.
“ But, thirdly, I go further. I contend, that even with
respect to the particular passages cited in the New Testa­
ment, according to the version of the l x x , we are not al­
ways to conclude, that the citation implies the citer’s appro­
bation of the verbal accuracy of the translation, even in the
instance of the passage cited. This will indeed be a just
conclusion, if a faithful representation of the phraseology of
the original be requisite fgr the purpose of the citer. But
if the general meaning of the passage cited is sufficient,
which, for the most part, is the case, no sanction of any
thing more than the general meaning, which is often very
inadequately given in a very loose, and, with respect to
words, even an erroneous translation, can be inferred from
the citation. For it certainly became the wisdom of the
apostles to cite the Old Testament according to the versions
yGoogk
TUE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 131
most in use and credit in their time, however defective in
verbal accuracy, provided they found in them the general
meaning, except indeed in those few cases in which their
argument turned upon the wording of the original. It was
nopart of the duty of holy apostles and inspired preachers,
toedit or correct translations of the Old Testament, or to
give critical notes upon the extant versions.” Comment, on
Hos. in hoc.
Dan. XII. 2.
HEB.
rhx)d
Vp ^nbrib»icrjri
’:dM? m*rb rtemb
r r I : • ; T - :i-
ENQ. VERB.
And many ofthem that sleep
in the dust of the earth shall
awake ; some to everlasting
life, and some to shame and
everlasting contempt.
This brief passage contains, more emphatically perhaps
than any other in the Old Testament, the germ of the resur­
rection doctrine. It is incessantly referred to by the Rab­
binical writers who have treated of the subject, and has
exercised a controlling influence on the literal statements of
Christ and the apostles. It becomes, therefore, a matter of
the utmost moment to determine, if possible, its true sense.
The question how far it implies the idea of a corporeal resur­
rection will naturally be resolved by the results of such an
inquiry. T he difficulties are confessedly great which attend
a proper solution, and the issue may still leave some points
more or less doubtful.
No progress can be made in the investigation without
first fixing, by careful exegesis, the exact import of the text.
The following may serve as a literal version : “ And many
of the sleepers of the dust of the ground shall awake—these
to everlasting life, and those to shame and everlasting con­
tempt.” But this still comes short of presenting to the Eng­
lish reader the precise shade of meaning conveyed by the
words, as it does not express the true nature of the distinc­
tion in the lot of the two classes which we think to be inti­
Digitized by Google
1 3 2 TUB DOCTRINE OF TUB RESURRECTION.
mated by the original. According to the established ren­
dering both classes awake, and this distinction is consequent
upon their awaking. The one class awakes to life and
honor, the other to shame and dishonor. It is greatly to be
questioned whether this is sustained by the true construc­
tion of the Hebrew. That, we believe, makes the distinc­
tion to consist in the lot of those who awake to life, and
those who do not awake at all. In the outset all are repre­
sented as sleeping: out of these all a portion (n^a^ many)
awake; the rest remain unawakened. This is the ground
of the distinction. “ These,” i. e. the awakened, awake to
everlasting life; “ and those,” i. e. the other class, who
abide in the dust, who do not awake at all, remain subject
to the shame and ignominy of that death, whatever it was,
which marked their previous condition. The grounds of
this construction are the following:
(l.) The “ awaking” is evidently predicated of the
“ many,” and not of the whole. It will be observed that the
phrase is not “ many ” in the absolute sense, which might
perhaps be understood of all, but “ many of,” which plainly
conveys the idea of restriction, distinguishing a part from the
whole. “ I most fully acknowledge,” says Dr. Hody ( Treat, of
Resurrect, o f the Body, p. 230), “ that the word many makes
this text extremely difficult. I know what expositors say,
but I am not satisfied with any thing I have hitherto met
with. Some tell us that many is sometimes used in the
Scriptures to signify all, but this does not clear the dif­
ficulty ; for there is a great difference between many and
many of. A ll they that sleep in the dust are many ; but
many o f them that sleep in the dust cannot be said to be all
they that sleep in the dust. Many o f does plainly except
some.” This we must regard as conclusive. The “ awak­
ing” is affirmed of the “ many,” and not of the whole.
(2.) The true sense of the original r&s)— is not
some— and some, but these— and those, referring respectively
to subjects previously indicated. By the former erroneous
Digitized by Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 33
rendering a distinction is constituted between two classes
ofthose who are awakened; by the latter, between those who
are and those who are nfit awakened. The difference is
all important, and though the force of the criticism can be
fully appreciated only by those who are conversant with the
Hebrew, yet the common reader can scarcely fail to per­
ceive, from the following examples, how strongly our inter­
pretation is fortified by current usage when these words are
taken distributively: Josh. 8 . 22, ‘ So they were in the
midst of Israel— nra fiixi nra these on this side, and
those on that side.’ 2 Sam. 2. 13, ‘ And they sat down, the
one (nkit these) on the one side of the pool, and the other
(n?3 and those) on the other side of the pool.’ 1 Kings 20.
20, ‘ And they pitched one over against the other (rnj nts«
r&it these over against those) seven days.’ In one single
instance, and only one, in the whole Bible, do we find these
terms used in a sense which affords countenance to the ren­
dering in question. This is in Ps. 20. 7, ‘ Some these)
trust in chariots, and some (nfestl and those) in horses : but
we will remember,’ &,c. The whole weight of authority is
evidently in favor of the construction we have given to the
phrase. T he first denotes those who awoke, the second
those who remained asleep. Life and glory crowned the
first, shame and execration clothed the last. Thus under­
stood, the passage yields a clear and consistent sense, in
which no violence is done to the phrase, many o f them that
sleep. Its restricted import is preserved, which is otherwise
lost.
(3.) The usage which obtains in regard to the Hebrew
term pip or yp1
? awake, confirms this view. This term, in
such a connexion, does not well admit of being taken in any
but a good sense. The Psalmist says of himself, Ps. 17.
15, ‘ As for me, I shall behold thy face in righteousness; I
shall be satisfied when I awake (y<pna) with thy likeness.’
But while it appropriately expresses the awaking of the
7
■Digitized by Google
1 34 T B I DOCTRINE OF TBE RESURRECTION.
righteous to a beatified state, it is undoubtedly contrary to
the genius of the word to apply it to any change or transi­
tion in the state of the wicked.
As the result of the whole, then, we give the following
as the correct explication of the passage, which will at once
afford an answer to the objection, that the same thing—viz.
awaking—is predicated of both classes : “ And many of the
sleepers of the dust shall awake; these (the awakened)
(shall be) to everlasting life; and those (the unawakened)
(shall be) to shame and everlasting contempt.” This we
have learned, since first adopting this view, is the interpreta­
tion suggested by some of the Jewish school, and is un­
doubtedly very ancient. Aben Ezra, in his commentary on
this chapter, quotes Rabbi Saadias Gaon as declaring that
“ those who awake shall be (appointed) to everlasting life,
and those who awake not shall be (doomed) to shame and
everlasting contempt.” The words of Gaon himself are,
that “ this is the resuscitation of the dead of Israel, whose
lot is to eternal life, and those who shall not awake are the
forsakers of Jehovah,” &c.*
Still the question recurs, What kind of a resurrection is
that here announced, and to what time is it to be referred ?
The core of the difficulty lies in these two points, of which
the solution of the last must afford the clew to that of the
first. The evidence, even to a cursory view of the context,
would seem to indicate pretty clearly that the period referred
to can scarcely be that of “ the end of the world,” as that
phrase is usually apprehended, for the sequel obviously an­
nounces an extended order of events stretching onwards
through a long lapse of centuries to the time, whatever that
• F o r t h e s e l a t t e r r e m a r k s I a m i n d e b t e d t o a n a r t i c l e i n t h e “ B ib lic a l
R e p e r t o r y ” f o r J u l y , 1 8 4 4 , c o n t a i n i n g a r e v i e w o f m y “ V o l l e y o f V is io n ,”
f r o m w h i c h , b y t h e w a y , I m a y h e r e o b s e r v e , t h a t I h a v e t r a n s f e r r e d , in
s o m e w h a t a l t e r e d f o r m , a c o n s i d e r a b l e p o r t i o n o f t h e a b o v e e x e g e s i s .
Digitized by Google
TBE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 135
be, when Daniel himself is to “ stand up in his lot at the
end of the days.” It is, moreover, distinctly announced
that this epoch of resuscitation is to be closely connected
with a period of distinguished trouble, when Michael the
great prince is to stand up for Daniel’s people, and as the same
language occurs in the description of this trouble with that
which is applied to the calamities experienced at the destruc­
tion of Jerusalem—viz. that there never had been and
never would be a scene of equal distress—it seems fair to
infer that the woes of that period are at least included in
the present prediction. But we have, if we mistake not,
adduced evidence in another chapter of this work, in which
we have treated of the Judgment in connexion with the
Resurrection, that our Lord’s predictions in the 24th and
25th of Matthew do in fact embrace a vastly prolonged pe­
riod, commencing with the signal manifestation of his king­
dom at the overthrow of Jerusalem, and reaching forward
to what is emphatically termed “ the end,”—or the great
consummation when his kingdom shall be universally estab­
lished. On the same grounds, therefore, on which that con­
struction is established, we may regard the present text as
spreading its announcement over the like extent of time,
though still having a more special reference to events that
should distinguish the commencing period of that great era
to which they pertained. Conceiving then that this predic­
tion of Daniel ushers in that new dispensation which was
to be opened by the Messiah at his death and resurrection,
and which began more signally to verify itself at the de­
struction of Jerusalem, we recognize an incipient fulfilment
of this oracle, not only in the several individual instances
of resuscitation of the dead recorded in the gospels, but
more especially in that remarkable display of resurrection-
power which was put forth upon the “ many bodies of the
saints that slept, which arose, and came out of their graves
after his resurrection.” So far then the words of the
Digitized by Google
136 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
prophet may be construed as having respect to a literal res­
urrection. But this we regard as, in the main, a mere out­
ward and sensible adumbration of a far more glorious work
of moral quickening which was to be the result of Christ’s
accomplished redemption in behalf of his people, and in
which this prediction was to receive its more complete and
signal fulfilment. From age to age this spiritual vivifica­
tion was to proceed in connexion with the ‘judgment of
the great day,’ the period of the nbis the world to come,
that period which in the Jewish Christology was identical
with the reigning and judging supremacy of the Messiah.*
The testimonies from the Rabbinical school in support
of this view are innumerable. “ In the world to come,”
says the Sohar, fol. 81, “ the holy blessed God will vivify
the dead and raise them from their dust, so that they shall
be no more of an earthly structure, as they were before,
having been created from the dust, a thing not at all dura­
ble. But in this hour (day) they shall be raised from the
dust of which they were composed, that they may subsist as
structures firm and durable.” So also the Midrash Mishle,
fol. 67: “ Seven things were created before the world was
made : to wit, the throne of glory, as it is said, Ps. 93. 2,
‘ Thy throne is established of old ; thou art from everlast-
* “ I t w a s t h e o p i n i o n o f t h e J e w s , ” s a y s L i g h t f o o t , “ t h a t t h e r e
s h o u l d b e a r e s u r r e c t i o n i n t h e d a y s o f t h e M e s s ia s . A n d t h i s w ’a s s o f a r
t h e o p i n io n o f t h e n a t i o n , t h a t t h e y u n d e r s t o o d t h e t e r m , ‘ t h e w o r l d to
c o m e , ’ o f t h e s t a t e o f g l o r y , a n d y e t o f t h e s t a t e o f t h e M e s s i a s ; a s s h a ll
b e s h o w e d , w h e n w e m e e t w i t h t h a t p h r a s e . N o w t h e r e w a s a r e s u r r e c t i o n
i n t h e d a y s o f t h e M e s s i a s , a c c o r d i n g l y , n o t o n l y o f t h o s e t h a t h a v e b e e n
n a m e d , b u t a ls o o f d i v e r s s a i n t s , w h o s e g r a v e s w e r e o p e n e d a n d b o d ie s
a r o s e . A n d i f t h e w o r d s t h a t y e h a v e o n h a n d ( J o h n 5 . 2 5 ) , b e a p p lie d
t o t h e r a i s i n g o f t h e d e a d i n a b o d i ly s e n s e , t h e y m a y m o s t p r o p e r l y b e
p o i n t e d t o t h a t r e s u r r e c t i o n w h i c h w a s s o p a r a l l e l t o t h e e x p e c t a t i o n o f
t h e J e w s ; a n d C h r i s t , a s c r i b i n g s u c h a m a t t e r t o h i m s e l f , d o t h p r o v e
h i m s e l f t o b e t h e M e s s i a s , e v e n t h e y a n d t h e i r o w n o p i n i o n b e in g
j u d g e s . ”
yGoogk
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 137
mg;’ afterwards the Messiah, as it is said, Ps. 72. 17,
'His name shall endure for ever; his name shall be contin­
ued as long as the sun : and men shall be blessed in him, and
all nations shall call him blessed.’ But why is his name
called •¡ass ?— because he shall hereafter raise the sleepers in
the dust.” 4 Esd. 2. 10, 13, 15, 16, 30, 31, “ These things
saiththe Lord to Esdras, Declare to my people that I will
give to them the kingdom of Jerusalem, which I was about to
give to Israel. Now a kingdom is prepared for you ; watch !
Mother, embrace thy sons ; bring them up with joy. And
I will raise up the dead from their places, and from their
monuments will I bring them forth, for I have made known
my name in Israel. Delight thyself, mother, with thy sons,
because I will deliver thee, saith the Lord. Remember thy
sleeping sons, for I will bring them out of the sides of the
earth, and will show mercy to them.” '
It would be abundantly easy to accumulate a mass of
irrefragable testimony from the writings of the Rabbins,
that the Resurrection and the Judgment were the two great
features of the “ world to come,” or the Messianic dispen­
sation. R . Saadias (Emunoth, c. 7. Rad. 7) maintains, ac­
cording to Pococke, that “ the resurrection is to take place
during the Messiah’s reign on the earth, and so that the pro­
mise of the dead Israelites being brought out of their sepul­
chres is to be accomplished njn ohisa in this world (or age),
and that we are not to suppose that it pertains to another;
consequently, that the prediction of Daniel respecting the
many that sleep in the dust, with various other Scriptures,
is to be fulfilled in the time o f salvation, a phrase entirely
equivalent to the days o f the Messiah.” So it is said in
Torath Adam, fol. 105, that the day of judgment will
commence, “ sub initium dierum resurrectionis, at the be­
ginning o f the days o f the resurrection.” (Pococke, Porta
Mosis, Not. Miscel. p. 166.)
It is during the lapse of this great Messianic day that the
awakening from the dust, of which Daniel speaks, was un­
Digitized by Googk
derstood as destined to occur. It is indeed the prevalent
impression of the Jews, that the resurrection there spoken of
pertains more especially to their own nation ; but as we have
in the New Testament an inspired exposition of the great
doctrines of life and death, of resurrection and judgment,
we are, of course, freed from the obligation of abiding by
their interpretation on a point in which their national pre­
judices might be expected to warp their opinions. From
the teachings of our Lord and his apostles we learn that all
men are by nature dead in trespasses and in sins; and that
the effect of the Gospel, attended by the energetic influence
of the Holy Spirit, is to quicken its recipients into a new
and divine life, which, as it is a virtual resurrection while
they are yet in the body, issues by necessary consequence
in that consummated resurrection which accrues to them
upon their leaving the body. The two ideas run essentially
into each other, and this is, in fact, inevitable from the drift
of our Saviour’s declaration: “ I am the resurrection and the
life ; he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall
he live; and whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall
never die.”
While then we cannot question that the words before us
do truly refer to the cases of bodily resurrection recorded
by the evangelists, we are at the same time strong in the per­
suasion, that they possess a vastly grander scope, and find
their fulfilment in that sublime career of moral regeneration
which forms so much of the history of Christianity from age
to age. And it is doubtless to this text that we are to trace
the origin of the phraseology so common in the New Tes­
tament, by which the resurrection is represented as a resur­
rection from among or out of the dead—avuazaaig ix rtxq£>v.
This usage is very remarkable, and must be founded upon
some sufficient reason. The simple and natural form of the
expression, answering to the English phrase ‘ resurrection of
the dead,’ is avaoxaoi? xC>v vtxpwv, which occasionally occurs,
as for instance, Mat. 22. 31, “ But concerning the resurrec­
138 THE DOCTRINE OP THE RESURRECTION.
yGoogk
TH 1 SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 8 8
tion o f th e d e a d (ccyaoxaotg t<3v vsxgaiy), have ye not read,”
&c. T he phrase is here given in more genera] form, be­
cause intended to include the resurrection of the patriarchs,
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who lived and died prior to the
utterance of this prophecy of Daniel, and whose case, there­
fore, could not so well come within the range of its terms. In
the parallel context in Luke, however, where more precise
ideas are intended to be conveyed, the other form of the ex­
pression occurs : “ The sons of this world (or age) marry and
are given in marriage; but they who are accounted worthy
to obtain that world, and the resurrection th a t is f r o m the
dead (rqg avamaattag tijg ix vtxq&y) neither marry nor are
given in marriage,” &.c. We have in these citations the two
expressions, where they manifestly are not synonymous, and
coaid not be exchanged without destroying the force of the
reasoning. The one intimates, in the most general terms,
a resurrection o f the dead; the other a more special resur­
rection fr o m ou t of the dead. There must assuredly be
some reason for this peculiar phraseology, and to what can
it more probably be referred than to the diction of Daniel in
the passage before us? Thus, also, Acts 4. 2 j “ Being
grieved that they taught the people, and preached through
Jesus the resurrection th a t is f r o m the dead ( xrjv uvuaiaoiv
t t)v ix vtxQ&y).” The double article, in addition to the pro­
position tx , fr o m out o f, denotes strongly the specialty
adverted to, Acts 17.31, 32, “ He hath given assurance
unto all, in that he hath ra ised him fr o m the dead (avacmjoag
aviov ex vexgwv). And when they heard of the resurrection
o f d ea d ones ( ava<rti)tnv vtxuCiv), some mocked.’\ Here, as
the persons addressed were Gentiles or Heathen, and who
would naturally be offended by the seeming absurdity of auy
dead thing being raised to life, the expression is quite gen­
eral, and the article properly omitted. Phil. 3. 11, “ If by
any means I might attain unto the resurrection f r o m o u t o f
the dead (tig tf,y ilayuoTacnv tu)y vtxg&v)." Here is obviously
an allusion to a resurrection from among the dead, which
Digitized by Google
1 4 0 THE DOCTRINE Of THE RESURRECTION.
was pre-eminently a privilege of some in contradistinction
from others, and therefore expressed by the most limited
form of the phrase.*
Other passages illustrating the peculiarity in question
might be adduced, but we think the evidence sufficient to
sustain our suggestion, that we have here a usus loquendi
in regard to the resurrection, which refers itself directly to
the passage in Daniel that we aTe now considering; and if so
the proof we believe must be regarded as conclusive, that
that passage in its more legitimate and primary import, does
not convey the idea of the resurrection o f the body. If the
prediction really finds its fulfilment in the resurrection taught
in the New Testament, and if it can be shown, as we shall
hope shortly to do, that that is a resurrection which is grad­
ually taking place from age to age, and one in which the
spiritual body developed at death is intimately related to
the spiritual life implanted in regeneration, then we see not
how to resist the conclusion that this *awaking from, the
dead,’ announced by Daniel, points mainly to a spiritual and
not a corporeal resurrection.t
• " W h a t c o u ld h e m e a n b y ‘a t t a i n i n g u n t o t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n o f t h e
d e a d , ’ w h i c h h e e v i d e n t l y s p e a k s o f a s s o m e t h i n g a t t a i n a b l e i n t h i s lif e ,
— o t h e r w i s e h i s m o d e s t n o t i c e , ‘ n o t a s t h o u g h I h a d a l r e a d y a t t a i n e d , ’
w o u l d b e n o n s e n s e ;— w h a t c a n h e t h u s m e a n b y a t t a i n i n g u n t o t h e r e s u r ­
r e c t i o n o f t h e d e a d , b u t a s t a t e o f c o m p l e te r e g e n e r a t i o n , w h e n a l l t h a t
w a s p r e v io u s ly s p i r i t u a l l y d e a d , — a ll t h a t i s t h e s e a t o f m a n ’s i n b o r n c o r ­
r u p t i o n s , — i s q u i c k e n e d w i t h s p i r i t u a l l if e , a n d f o r m e d a n e w b y t h e L o r d !
T h u s h i s w h o l e a r g u m e n t i s c o n s i s t e n t ; w h e r e a s t o m a k e h i m t a l k o f
s t r i v i n g t o a t t a i n u n t o t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n o f t h e d e a d , m e a n i n g , b y t h e r e s u r ­
r e c t i o n o f t h e d e a d , t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n o f d e a d b o d i e s , w h i c h a l l ( i f a n y ) a r e
t o e x p e r i e n c e , w h e t h e r t h e y s t r i v e f o r i t o r n o t , a n d w h i c h , s t r i v e a s t h e y
w i l l , t h e y c a n n o t b r i n g o n a n y s o o n e r , i s t o m a k e h i m t a l k i n a s t r a n g e
m a n n e r i n d e e d . ” — Noble’s Appeal, p . 6 6 .
t W e s h a l l h a v e o c c a s i o n a g a i n t o a d v e r t t o t h i s p a s s a g e i n a s u b s e ­
q u e n t p a g e , w h e r e w e p r e s e n t i t i n c o n n e x i o n w i t h t h e j u d g m e n t o f t h e
d e a d , s m a l l a n d g r e a t , R e v . 2 0 . 1 2 , t o w h i c h , i f w e m i s t a k e n o t , i t a f f o r d s
t h e o n l y a d e q u a t e c le w .
Digitized by Google
TU B SCEIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 141
CHAPTER V.
The New Testament Doctrine o f the Resurrection.
T he train of investigation thus far pursued has, if we
mistake not, conducted us to one important conclusion, viz.,
that the teachings of the Old Testament, so far as they throw
light at all on the theme of human destiny in the world to
come, do not go beyond the announcement of the simple
fact of a future life. This doctrine was undoubtedly con*
veyed, though in terms of comparative obscurity, in numer*
ous passages of the law and the prophets. The sanctions of
that economy were for the most part temporal, and in this
respect it was designed that the Gospel should be immeas­
urably in advance of the law. The clouds that hung over the
grave were to be, in great measure, dispelled by the Sun of
Righteousness, and the retributions o f eternity distinctly pro­
claimed. Still it must be admitted, as natural to suppose,
that the doctrine declared by Christ on this subject would
be in the main a fuller and clearer enunciation of the very
doctrine so darkly intimated in the Jewish Scriptures ; or, in
other words, that the fundamental truth which entered into
his disclosures on this head would be that of the immortal­
ity o f man— that death teas not a complete victory over life
—that notwithstanding the triumph o f the grave, that which
constituted his real essential being survived the dissolution of
the body, and subsisted forever in a state of happiness or
misery in another world. This was the point on which the
prior revelations were confessedly obscure, and this conse­
quently would govern the character of his disclosures on
this subject—this would form the burden of his teachings.
His great mission, so far as this object was concerned, was
to “ bring life and immortality to light;” and though we
Digitized by Google
1 4 2 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
are not to array any hypothetical assumptions against the
clear evidence of facts, as to the subject-matter of his com­
munications, yet we are at liberty to have recourse to a priori
considerations in fixing the principles on which language
that is intrinsically doubtful is to be interpreted.
The question then is a perfectly fair one, in what man­
ner the Divine Teacher would be apt to promulgate to the
Jews, and through them to the world, the grand doctrine of
man’s future existence. This question becomes doubly
proper and urgent if we may venture to suppose ourselves
to have attained, by scientific discovery apart from revela­
tion, a view of the subject which commands assent, but
which is at the same time apparently in conflict with the
literal statements of the Scriptures; for the case then be­
comes similar to that of geology, where a reason is impera­
tively required for the seeming discrepancy between the
letter of the sacred record and the ascertained facts of
science.
In determining then the point before us, we must obvi­
ously transport ourselves back in idea to the period when
the Divine Revealer appeared and opened his lips upon the
sublime theme. We are to put our minds as far as possible into
the posture of the minds of that generation, and judge from
that stand-point in what manner the instructions of Christ
in regard to the future life would be likely to be communi­
cated. We must bear in mind that their own scriptures
contained very little of a definite character on the subject,
and that the speculations of the heathen philosophers re­
specting it were little better than mere random guesses.
So far as they taught any thing relative to the future mode
of existence, with the exception perhaps of Plato, it was the
existence of the soul as mere disembodied intellect— as the
abstract power of thought—apart from any kind of corporeity,
whether material or spiritual. But now the time had come
for the promulgation of new and clearer views on the sub­
ject: and who can doubt that this would be done on the
yGoogk
TH* SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 4 3
part of infinite Wisdom with a fitting reference to the mental
state and conditions—or, in one word, to the receptivity—of
those that were to be taught? The great truth to be au­
thoritatively announced was, that death was not the extinc­
tion of being— that there was that in man which survived
the dissolution of his mortal frame. In making this an­
nouncement we can indeed easily conceive that our Lord
might have laid open all the arcana of our mental and phys­
ical structure, and have shown how the body and the soul
were connected with each other, and how the future life
was developed by a necessary law upon the cessation of the
present; just as we can conceive that the true formation of
the earth and the solar system might have been made known
to Moses and faithfully and scientifically described in his
pages. But this would have been obviously at variance
with the analogy of the divine proceeding in the general
course of Providence, which is so ordered as to throw the
human mind on its own resources in eliciting the constitu­
tion of the universe. The revelations of his word have
mainly a moral bearing, and the presumption would doubt­
less be, in the present case, that the doctrine would be con­
veyed not so much in the terms of scientific verity—in the
technical phrase of a strict and accurate physiology—as in
a popular diction that would declare the main fact in an in­
telligible way, and clothe it with the highest practical effi­
ciency, while at the same time it fell short of scientific ex­
actness. H e might use language more or less metaphorical
—he might express himself in terms borrowed from familiar
phenomena— and yet the grand truth be enunciated with a
distinctness far exceeding that of the Old Testament writers,
and calculated to produce a very vivid impression upon the
minds of his hearers. How far this was actually the case,
remains to be seen.
Digitized by Google
1 4 4 THE BOCTKINE OF TBE BEEURHECTION.
CHAPTER VI
Origin and import o fthe word ‘ Resurrection' as used in the
New Testament.
Upon recurring to the sacred page we find onr Lord, in
the utterance of this doctrine, making use for the most part
of the term dvmnaoig, rendered resurrection, a term the true
explication of which is obviously of the first importance in
this discussion. The verbal root from which it comes is
compounded of avd and 'ioxtjfu, of which the for­
mer denotes, according to 6 chleusner, in composition, (I,)
upwards; (2,) again; (3,) separation; (4,) emphasis ; (6 ,)
adds no meaning at all. The verb Torti/ii simply means to
stand, or actively to cause to stand, i. e. to raise, to raise up,
and the corresponding substantive is oraatg, standing. It does
not appear, however, from New Testament usage, that the
idea of standing again, or rising again, is generally con­
veyed by the verb dviovryu, so that the true force of the pre­
position is not again, but up, upwards. The action of stand­
ing up, i. e. rising from a recumbent or sitting posture, is
expressed by this word, without any reference to a previous
position or a repetition of the act. Thus Mat. 9. 9, “ And
he arose (dvaoxag) and followed him.” Ch. 22. 24, “ And
raise up (araoxfati) seed to his brother.” Mark 3.26, “ And
if Satan rise up ( i’vm jtij) against himself.” Ch. 10. 1 , “ And
he arose (avatnag) from thence.” Acts 7.18, “ Till another
king arose («v*Vni).” In these passages, and numerous others
that might be mentioned, there is no implication of the
sense of again. At the same time, as the living of the soul
or spirit after death is in one sense a living again, though
in a new form, the word may properly be understood as in­
volving that idea. Yet, let it not be forgotten, it is the living
again of the spiritual and not of the corporeal part of our
nature. In relation to the subject before us, the term
Digitized by Google
TU B SCBIPTCBAL ABOUMENT. 1 4 5
is evidently metaphorical, and applied from the fact that
living things, especially of the animal kingdom, generally
stand more or less erect, while those that are deadfall down
and lie prostrate. Hence, a very natural term to express
livingagain, would be araotaott, resurgence,resurrection,\. e.
re-rising. T he phrase, it is true, is drawn from corporeal
objects, and suggests, at first blush, what we may term a
corporeal idea; but it does not appear that any more is ne­
cessarily included in the term, in this connexion, than the
simple sense of reviviscence, without any reference to the
rising again of the defunct body. This will be seen to be
aconclusion of great moment in relation to the genuine im­
port of the word upon which the doctrine of the resurrection
of the body mainly depends. It remains to confirm it by an
appeal to actual usage, and to show that the position is impreg­
nable, that the prevailing sense of resurrection in the New
Testament is simply that offuture existence, the future state
orimmortality. The person—the sentient intelligent being—
who now yields to the universal sentence, and appears to be­
come extinct, shall again be restored to life by entering
immediately upon another sphere of existence. This exist­
ence will indeed be in a body, but it will be a spiritual
body, i. e. some exceedingly refined and ethereal substance,
with which the vitalprinciple is connected, but of the nature
ofwhich we are ignorant, and which wedenominate body, from
the inadequacy of language to afford any more fitting term.
Another term employed in the enunciation of the doc­
trine of the resurrection is tyflyto, to raise, with its deri­
vative eytgoic, raising. The latter, however, occurs but once
in the New Testament, Mat. 27. 53, where it is applied to
the resurrection of Christ. The leading idea conveyed by
this word is undoubtedly that of raising in a physical sense,
and if we had no reason, from other sources, for supposing
that the resurrection implied any thing but the resurrection
of the body, this would unquestionably be the import which
we should naturally assign to it when used in reference to
that subject. But in this, as in all other cases, the sense o f
Digitized by Google
146 T U E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
the term must he governed hy the truth o f the doctrine, so far
as it is possible to ascertain it on satisfactory grounds ; and
this is the object of our present investigation. The import
of the various terms will come under review in our citation
of particular passages. Upon this we shall enter, after
giving the following extract from Locke’s Letters to Stilling-
fleet, Bishop of Worcester, who had assailed certain passages
of the “ Essay on the Understanding,” as undermining the
Scriptural doctrine of the resurrection.
“ The resurrection of the dead I acknowledge to be an
article of the Christian faith : but that the resurrection of the
same body, in your Lordship’s sense of the same body, is an
article of the Christian faith, is what, I confess, I do not yet
know. In the new Testament (wherein, I think, are contained
all the articles of the Christian faith) I find our Saviour and
the apostles to preach the resurrection o f the dead, and the
resurrection from the dead, in many places: but I do not
remember any place where the resurrection of the same body
is so much as mentioned : nay,'which is very remarkable in
the case, I do not remember, in anyplace of the New Testa­
ment, (where the general resurrection ofthe last day is spoken
of,) any such expression as the resurrection o f the body,
much less o f the same body.”* At the conclusion of a long
series of powerful remarks, Mr. L. adds, “ I must not part
with this article of the resurrection, without returning my
thanks to your Lordship for making me take notice of a
* By a singular fortuity a copy of Locke’s Letters to Stillingfleet has
come into my hands, containing a number of autograph notes of the au­
thor himself, among which is the following, appended to the sentence
which ends above with the word ‘body.’ “ And it may seem to be not
without some special reason, that where St. Paul’s discourse was particu­
larly concerning the body, and so should lead him to name it, yet when he
speaks of the resurrection, he says, ‘ you,’ and not ‘ your bodies ;’ 1 Cor.
6 . 14, ‘ And God hath raised up the Lord, and will raise up us by his own
power.’” Quoting probably from memory he has substituted “ you,” and
“ your bodies,” for “ us,” and “ our bodies,” but the bearing of the remark
on the argument is the same in either case.
Digitized by Google
T B K S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 147
fanlt in my Essay. When I wrote that book, I took it for
granted, as 1 doubt not but many others have done, that the
Scriptures had mentioned, in express terms, the resurrection
of the body:— but upon the occasion your Lordship has
given me, in your last letter, to look a little more narrowly
into what revelation has declared concerning the resurrec­
tion, and finding no such express words in Scripture as that
‘the body shall rise, or be raised, or the resurrection of the
body,’ I shall, in the next edition of it, change these words
of my book, ‘ the dead bodies of men shall rise,’—into those
of Scripture, ‘the dead shall rise.’ ” Afterward, in strict
agreement with our sentiments, which affirm that man rises
witha real substantial body, though not with a material body,
Mr. Locke adds, “ Not that 1 question that the dead shall
be raised withTbodies; but in matters of revelation I think
it not only safest, but our duty, as far as any one delivers it
forrevelation, to keep close to the words of the Scripture; un­
less he will assume to himself the authority of one inspired,
or make himself wiser than the Holy Spirit himself.”
The reader will not infer from this that there are no pas­
sages in the Scriptures where the body is spoken of in con­
nexion with the resurrection, but simply that the particular
expression, ‘ resurrection of the body,’ is nowhere to be met
with. This, however, does not of itself prove that the doc­
trine is not taught by the sacred writers. This question is to
be determined by a critical examination of the various texts
in which the subject is referred to.
Our object is now to ascertain whether the general usage
of Scripture gives any countenance to the idea that the
resurrection is simply the doctrine of the future life. And
here we adduce, in the outset, the authority of a name
which will perhaps weigh more with many of our readers
than any thing we could offer ourselves. Dr. Dwight in his
Sermon on the Resurrection, (Sytemat. Theol. Serm. 64,)
after observing that the subject treated by Paul, l Cor. 15,
is the Anastasis, or future existence of man, thus proceeds :
Digitized by Google
“ This word Anastasis, is commonly, but often erroneously,
rendered resurrection. So far as I have observed, it usually
denotes our existence beyond the grave. Its original and
literal meaning is, to stand up, or stand again. As standing
is the appropriate posture of life, consciousness, and activity,
aud lying down the appropriate posture of the dead, the un­
conscious, and the inactive, this word is not unnaturally em­
ployed to denote the future state of spirits, who are living,
conscious, and active beings. Many passages of Scripture
would have been rendered more intelligible, and the thoughts
contained in them more just and impressive, had this word
been translated agreeably to its real meaning. This obser­
vation will be sufficiently illustrated by a recurrence to that
remarkable passage which contains the dispute between our
Saviour and the Sadducees. ‘ Then came unto him,’ says
the evangelist, ‘the Sadducees, who say there is no resur­
rection (juif tlvixi ctvuoTctolv'),’ that there is nofuture state,ot
no future existence of mankind.—They declare seven broth­
ers to have married successively one wife, who survived them
all. They then ask, ‘ whose wife shall she be in the resur­
rection (tv te aracrraoti),’ ill the future state ? Our Saviour
answers, ‘ In the resurrection,’ or, as it should be rendered,
‘In the future state, they neither marry nor are given in
marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. But as
touching the resurrection o f the dead, have ye not read that
which was spoken unto you by God V—or, as it ought t»be
rendered, ‘ Have ye not read that which was spoken unto
you by God concerning the future existence of those who are
dead, saying, I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac,
and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but
of the living.’ This passage [continues Dr. Dwight], were
we at any loss concerning the meaning of the word anasta­
sis, determines it beyond dispute. The proof that there is
an anastasis of the dead alleged by our Saviour, is the dec­
laration of God to Moses, ‘ I am the God of Abraham, of
Isaac, and of J a c o b a n d the irresistible truth, that ‘ God
148 the doctrine op t h e resurrection.
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 1 4 9
is not the God of the dead, but of the living.’ The conse­
quence, as every one who reads the Bible knows, is, that
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, were living at the time when
this declaration was made. Those who die, therefore, live
after they are dead ; and this future life is the anastasis;
which is proved by our Saviour in this passage, and which is
universally denoted by this term throughout the Neto Testa-
nent. Nothing is more evident than that Abraham, Isaac,
andJacob, had notrisen from the dead [as to their material
bodies], and that the declaration concerning them is no
proof of the resurrection [of the body]. But it is certain
they are living beings; and therefore this passage is a com­
plete proof that mankind live after death.”
We close these remarks on tbeNew Testament usage, in
respect to terms implying the resurrection, by the following
additional extract from Mr. Locke’s Letter to StilliDgfleet,
quoted above :
“ He who reads with attention the discourse of St. Paul
of the resurrection, 1 Cor. 15, will see that he plainly dis­
tinguishes between the dead that shall be raised, and the
bodies of the dead. For it is vtxgoi, dead, navxt;, all, ol, who,
which are the nominative cases to iytigorxai, are raised,
iponoiTi&ijoovTat, shall be quickened, ¿ytQ-d-tjoovxca, shall be
raised, all along, and not otofiaxa, bodies, which one may with
reason think would somewhere or other have been expressed,
if all this had been said to propose it as an article of faith,
that the very same bodies should be raised. The same
manner of speaking the Spirit of God observes all through
the New Testament, where it is said, ‘ raise the dead,’—
‘quicken or make alive the dead,—‘ resurrection of the
dead.’ Mat. 22. 31. Mark 12. 26.
“ Another evidence that St. Paul makes a distinction
between the dead and the bodies o f the dead, so that the dead
in 1 Cor. 15, cannot be taken to stand precisely for the
bodies of the dead, are these words of the apostle, v. 35:
‘But some man will say, How are the dead raised, and with
what bodies do they come V which words ‘dead’ and ‘ they,
Digitized by Googk
150 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
if supposed to stand precisely for the ‘ bodies of the dead,’
the question will run thus, ‘ How are the dead bodies raised,
and with what bodies do the dead bodies come V which seems
to have no very agreeable sense.
“ This, therefore, being so, that the Spirit of God keeps
so expressly to this phrase or form of speaking in the New
Testament o f' raising,’ quickening,’ ‘ rising,’ ‘ resurrection,’
& .C ., of the dead, when the resurrection at the last day is
spoken o f; and that the body is not mentioned but in the
answer to this question, ‘ With what bodies shall those dead,
who are raised, come?’ so that by the dead cannot be pre­
cisely meant the dead bodies; I do not see but a good
Christian, who reads the Scriptures with an intention to be­
lieve all that is there revealed to him concerning the resurrec­
tion, may acquit himself of his duty, without entering into
the inquiry whether the dead shall have the very same bodies,
or n o ; which sort of inquiry the apostle, by the appellation
he here bestows on him that makes it, seems not much to
encourage. Nor, if he shall think himself bound to deter­
mine concerning the identity of the bodies of the dead
raised at the last day, will he, by the remainder of St. Paul’s
answer, find t)ie determination of the apostle to be much in
favor of ths very same body, unless the being told that the
body sown 1is not the body that shall be’—that the body
raised is as different from that which was laid down, as the
flesh of man is from the flesh of beasts, fishes, and birds, or
as the sun, moon, and stars, are different from one another,
or as different as a corruptible, weak, natural, mortal body,
is from an incorruptible, powerful, spiritual, immortal body;
and lastly, as different as a body that is flesh and blood is
from a body that is not flesh and blood—unless, I say, all this
which is contained in St. Paul’s words, can be supposed to
be the way to deliver this as an article of faith, which every
one is required to believe, viz., ‘That the dead should be
raised in the very same bodies that they had before in this
life.’ ”
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 151
CHAPTER VII.
The Resurrection o f Christ.
T he resurrection of our Lord is in so many instances
and in such a variety of ways brought into connexion with
the resurrection of his people, especially as a pledge of
theirs, that the consideration of this event is imperatively
urged upon us in this part of our discussion. As he in his
risen body stands at the head of his risen saints, so the fact
of his resurrection occupies a like relation to the fact of
theirs. The fa c t itself of his emergence from the sepulchre
on the third day is of course admitted. The nature, cir­
cumstances, and bearings of the fact, are all with which we
at present have to do. What light does this event throw
upon the subject of the resurrection-body ? If he actually
rose in his material body—in the self-same body in which
he was crucified—it doubtless affords some countenance to
the idea that his people are also to rise in like manner in the
bodies which they laid down at death. Still, even on this
ground, there are some circumstances which go to consti­
tute a marked difference in the two cases; so that while his
resurrection is to be regarded as a pledge, it cannot justly
be viewed as a.pattern, of theirs. His body did not see cor­
ruption, while theirs do. The words of David in the 16th
Psalm, as we have already seen, were expressly interpreted,
both by Peter and Paul, as prophetic of the buried body of
Christ. T his is a matter of great moment in the present
relation, as the arguments in proof of the resurrection of
the body generally concentrate themselves in the resurrec­
tion of Jesus Christ. The advocates of that theory take their
stand, for the most part, on the position, that there could be
no true resurrection of Christ without the re-animation and
resurrection of his material body; and to deny this, is, in their
view, the same as to deny his resurrection altogether. The
Digitized by Google
1 5 2 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
same thing is affirmed of our own resurrection. As it is
only the body that is properly said to die, so it is only
the body that can justly be said to be raised. Even grant­
ing for a moment that this were true, still it i3 obvious
that there is a heaven-wide difference between the case of a
body that is resuscitated on the third day, and while its or­
ganic integrity remains substantially unimpaired, and one
that has been dissolved to dust and formed into countless
new combinations, both vegetable and animal.
But we shall attempt to show that the resurrection of
the Saviour’s material body is not incontestably taught in
the language of the sacred narrative, and that, by adopting
the opposite view, we do in fact bring the resurrection of
Christ and that of his saints into the most perfect and beau­
tiful analogy, and one that is utterly precluded by the com­
mon hypothesis. Let it once be established that the body
in which Jesus rose, and repeatedly appeared to his disci­
ples during the space of forty days, was in fact a spiritual
body, and it is obvious that the conformity of the members
to the head becomes much more striking if we suppose that
they also are to enter immediately at death upon that state
which is substantially the same with his. We say substan­
tially, for there were evidently certain circumstances con­
nected with our Lord’s post-resurrection appearances, which
are not to be expected to find a parallel in the case of the
risen righteous. These will sufficiently disclose themselves
in the progress of our remarks.
(1.) It is peculiarly worthy of note, that it is nowhere
explicitly affirmed in the narrative of the evangelists, or any
other part of the Scriptures, that the identical material body
of Christ arose. The language that is used respecting that
event, is such as to be capable of being consistently under­
stood without the implication that his material body had any
share in the resurrection or ascension. But if this be so,
we do not perceive that that view can be justly held to be
fairly made out; for no language can adequately establish a
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 153
fact of this nature, but that'which cannot properly be un­
derstood in a different sense ; much less when equally clear
expressions can be adduced in support of the contrary—of
which we shall have more to say in the sequel.
(2.) It seems to be a fair presumption that the same
body which rose also ascended. But the evidence is cer­
tainly conclusive, that it was not a material body which as­
cended to heaven. Now to consider the resurrection of the
same body of Jesus as an example and pledge of that of the
saints, and then to suppose that body not to ascend, falls
little short of making their resurrection a blank, and" com­
pletely nullifying the argument of Paul in the opening of
the 15th chap, of the first epistle to the Corinthians, where
he makes the resurrection of Christ the very groundwork
of the spiritual and resurrection life of his people.
(3.) The circumstances of his appearance to his disci­
ples, in repeated instances, subsequent to his resurrection,
are far more consistent with the idea of his possessing a
spiritual body than the reverse. In John 20. 19, we
learn that “ at evening, on the first day of the week, when
the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for
fear of the Jews, came Jesus, and stood in the midst, and
said,Peace be unto you.” Luke 24.36, 27, “ And as they thus
spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them. But they
were terrified and affrighted, and supposed they had seen
a spirit.” John 20. 26, “ And after eight days, again
his disciples were within, and Thomas with them; then
came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst,
and said, Peace be unto you.” We have here the evidence
of a body divested of the conditions of matter, at least as
matter is commonly and philosophically defined. It is one
endowed with the power of entering a room when the doors
were closed, and all the ordinary avenues of access precluded.
Such a body must have been spiritual; nor is this conclu­
sion vacated by the mention of certain circumstances that
would seem to be more appropriate to a material structure,
Digitized by Googk
154 T H E D O C T R IN E OF T H E B E 8 U R B E C T IO N .
such as the disciples coming and holding him by the feet
and worshipping him—his commanding them to handle him
and see that it was he himself, and not a mere intangible
spirit void of flesh and bones—his commanding Thomas to
put his hands into his wounded side—and his eating a piece of
broiled fish and an honey-comb. In all this we have no dif­
ficulty in recognizing a miraculous adaptation o f the visible
phenomena to the outward senses o f the disciples, who were
to be fully assured of the great fact of their Lord’s resur­
rection, and-of the identity of his person. But as the Sa­
viour’s true personality did not reside in his material body,
any more than ours does in ours, so the proof of it could
not really depend upon the exhibition of that body, although
it be admitted that the requisite evidence could not reach
their minds, while under the conditions of mortality, except
through the medium of the outward senses. The wisdom,
and even the necessity, of this is apparent, from the effect
which his sudden appearance among them produced, even
while his form and aspect were predominantly human.
They were, it is said, “ terrified and affrighted.” How
much would their terror have been increased had he ap­
peared as a purely spiritual entity, were that possible, with­
out at all disguising his unearthly being! As to the
act of eating, it is certain that it could not be from any
necessity of sustaining his body by material food. It was
doubtless an optical act, like that of the three angels that
came to Abraham—of whom one,.by the way, was this same
Jesus in his pre-incarnate state—and partook of the enter­
tainment which he served up to them. The resurrection-
state of Jesus was unquestionably the same with that of his
glorious or Shekinah-state before he tabernacled in the flesh ;
and if the one was consistent with his appearing to eat of
the ordinary food of mortals, so doubtless was the other.*
* Josephus, speaking of this incident in the history of Abraham (J.
A. B. I. c. 11), says, S6%ap l i r y rrapetr%ov Ie0t6vrwv, they presented to him
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 1 55
And when we consider the object to be attained by such an
illusion, we see nothing inconsistent or unworthy the divine
impersonation of Truth in having recourse to it. A mira­
cle, it is clear, must be admitted on any view. If his risen
body was material, it must have been miraculously rendered
spiritual when he suddenly appeared in a room closed and
barred, and when he as suddenly vanished from sight. If
it was spiritual, it must have been miraculously made to as­
sume material attributes on the same occasion. Between
these alternatives we are left to take our choice. For our­
selves we do not hesitate a moment. Adopting the former
view, we are compelled to the conclusion, that, as our Lord
did not ascend in a material body, he must have put it off
either at the ascension itself, or at some time previous dur­
ing the forty days of his sojourning on earth, of the proof
of which we have not the slightest trace except what is in­
volved in the hypothesis itself. On the other ground, the
necessity of such a change is precluded. He rose in the
same body in which he ascended, and in that body still lives
as “ the resurrection and the life” to all his believing fol­
lowers.*
(4.) When Mary came at an early hour to the sepul­
an appearance of eating. T h e t e r m ¿6$a, show, appearance, seeming, is
p r e c i s e l y t h e t e r m w h i c h w e t h i n k a p p li c a b l e to o u r S a v i o u r ’s a c t o n t h is
o c c a s i o n .
* “ P r o f . M Q ll e r a l l e g e s t h a t C h r i s t a r o s e f r o m t h e t o m b w i t h t h e s a m e
m a t e r i a l b o d y w h i c h h e h a d b e f o r e h i s c r u c i f i x io n . A s a p r o o f h e a d d u ­
c e s t h e f a c t t h a t C h r i s t a t e , a n d t h a t h e s h o w e d T h o m a s t h e m a r k s o f h i s
w o u n d s . B u t v e r y m a n y p r o o f s o f a n o p p o s i t e k i n d m a y b e a l l e g e d , t h e
m o s t i m p o r t a n t o f w h i c h i s h i s a s c e n s io n i n t o h e a v e n . T o t h e a s c e n s io n
b e l o n g s a g l o r i f i e d b o d y , w h i c h h a d f r o m t h e e a r t h o n l y t h a t w h i c h i s i m ­
p e r i s h a b l e . M i g h t n o t a g l o r if i e d o n e e a t , w h i l e t h e f o o d w a s t r a n s f o r m e d
b y a n i n w a r d , h i g h e r , l i v i n g e n e r g y i n t o a s u p e r i o r e l e m e n t , o r b e c h e m i ­
c a l l y e v a p o r a t e d 7 A n d c o u ld n o t t h e w o u n d s i n t h e b o d y b e v e r if i e d b y
m a r k s i n t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n - b o d y 7” — Lange, in Germ. Select. A n d o v e r ,
1 8 3 9 . P . 288.
Digitized by Google
1 5 6 T H E D O C T R IN E OP T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
chre, and looked down and saw only the two angelic mes­
sengers sitting within, as she turned round she beheld Jesus
and mistook him for the gardener. He must, therefore,
have been clothed, and in habiliments appropriate to a gar­
dener. But whence were these clothes obtained, on the
theory of the revival of the material body? His ordinary
garments had been distributed by lot among the Roman
soldiers at his crucifixion. His grave-clothes were still
lying in the sepulchre. If, then, the material body had
emerged from the tomb, it must, we should suppose, have
left all its sepulchral investments behind it. Whence then,
we ask again, did the risen Saviour obtain the garments in
which he appeared to Mary? The instantaneous reply will
no doubt be, that they were miraculously supplied; nor
would we intimate that a material body could not have been
thus furnished from the wardrobe of Omnipotence, as well
as any other. But we are still firm in the belief, that the
impression is far more spontaneous that the whole was mi­
raculous, the apparent body as well as the apparent garb.
We have, we think, no evidence that the purely spiritual
body of Christ, any more than any other spiritual body,
could be seen by the natural eye. Consequently there was
an absolute necessity that if the risen Saviour manifested
himself at all, it should have been by the temporary assump­
tion of a body cognizable by the natural senses. That
there was something miraculous in his several appearances
after his resurrection is to be inferred from Mark 16. 12:
“ After that, he appeared ina notherform (¿v suptji fioptpjj) unto
two of them, as they walked, and went ihto the country.”
This certainly implies a transformation of some kind, such
as we may easily conceive to pertain to a spiritualized body.
(5.) The evangelical narrative enforces the belief, that
our Lord ascended to heaven first on the very day on which
he rose from the dead, and subsequently in repeated instan­
ces before the expiration of the forty days mentioned by
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 157
Luke, Acts 1. 3.* The proof of this position may be thus
stated :—
a. The first appearance of the risen Saviotir was to
Mary Magdalen, of which a particular account is given by
Johnonly, ch. 20.11-18. After mentioning her recognition
ofhim, the writer proceeds: “ Jesus saith unto her, Touch me
not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my
brethren, and say un o them, I ascend unto my Father, and
your Father; and to my God, and yourGod.” For thisprohi-
bition here uttered it is difficult to assign a reason, unless it
be that our Lord was just upon the point of ascending, and
therefore no time was to be allowed for the expression of
those endearments to which her rejoicing affection prompted
her. The word is in the present tense (avafialvta, I ascend,
i. e. I amju st about ascending), and is, as it strikes us, en­
tirely inconsistent with the idea that he announces an ascen­
sion which was to take place forty days afterwards. Why
should so distant a removal to heaven be a reason for forbid­
ding her now o touch him ? Should we not suppose his
language would rather have been, ‘ Touch me now, for ifthou
dost it not before my ascension, thou canst not hope to do
it afterward ’—especially when we consider that, in the after
noon of that same day, he not only permitted, but required,
thedisciples to ‘ handle him, and see that it was he himself.’
Is it replied to this that he was urgent to have his disciples
immediately informed of his intended ascension at the end
of forty days ? But what could be the motive for such haste
on this matter, when he was to see them himself on the
same day, and could communicate that information at any
succeeding interview? The true solution is undoubtedly
very different. Jesus would simply certify to his disciples
* S e e o n t h i s s u b j e c t a d i s s e r t a t i o n f r o m t h e G e r m a n o f K i n k e l i n t h e
“ B ib lio th e c a S a c r a , ” V o l . I . N o . 1 . , F e b . 1 8 4 4 , w h e r e t h e q u e s t i o n r e ­
sp e c tin g t h e A s c e n s i o n i s a r g u e d w i t h g r e a t a b i l i t y . W e a r e i n d e b t e d t o
ib is e s s a y f o r s e v e r a l o f t h e i d e a s a d v a n c e d i n t h e p r e s e n t c o n n e x i o n .
8
Digitized by Googk
168 T U B D O C T R IN B O F T U B R E S U R R E C T IO N .
the reason why he did not at once personally manifest him­
self to them. “ Announce to them that however pleasant
to them and to me would be an instantaneous meeting, yet
a stronger attraction draws me first to my Father. Every
human feeling gives way before this. Touch me not; I
cannot tarry with thee, nor with my brethren; for I have
not yet been with my Father, and there I must first be.”
Viewed in this light every thing is plain and easy.
b. A recurrence to the previous, history confirms this
interpretation. Our Lord had shortly before advertised his
followers of his speedy removal from them to his Father,
and of his subsequent speedy return to them. John )6.16,
“ A little while, and ye shall not'see me; and again, a little
while, and ye shall see me, because I go to the Father;” i. e
he was to go to the Father in the interval before their seeing
him again. And again, when his disciples were surprised
and confounded by his words, “ Jesus said unto them, Do
ye inquire among yourselves of that I said, A little while,
and ye shall not see me, and again, a little while, and ye
shall see me?” He then continues; “ Verily, verily, I
say unto you, that ye shall weep and lament, but the
world shall rejoice; and ye shall be sorrowful, but your
sorrow shall be turned into joy. A woman when she is in
travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come; but as soon
as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more
the anguish, because a man-child is born into the world.
And ye now therefore have sorrow : but I will see you
again, and your heart shall rejoice (xarfotzai), and your joy
no man taketh from you.” Compare the prediction and the
event. How sad and disconsolate was the little company at
his death; how buoyant and rejoicing were they made by his
re-appearance! Their sorrow was to continue till “ he had
been with his Father,” and then was their joy to com­
mence, as we learn was the case : “ Then were the disciples
glad (ixafijoctr) when they saw the Lord.” Then it was,
indeed, that a “ man-child was born into the world,” accord-
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 15U
iag to the prophetic word, “ Thou art my son, this day hare
I begotten thee.”
c. Our Saviour’s own words on the way to Emmaus
warrant and enforce the same construction. “ Then said
he unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that
the prophets have spoken! Ought not Christ to hare suf­
fered these things, and to enter into his glory?” Here
the verbs are both in the same tense (na&iiv and hotX&tiv),
and should doubtless have been rendered in the same way
—‘to have suffered ’ and ‘ to have entered.’ Our transla­
tors have varied the version, unquestionably because they
supposed the one to relate to the past, the other to the fu­
ture. But the Scriptures plainly identify the ascension and
the glorification of Christ, and if he was glorified on this
day, he undoubtedly must have ascended on this day.
There can be no question that our Lord uses at various
times the word 8o%a&a&ai, to be glorified, as a synonym with
the phrase, “ going or coming to the Father.” In John 13.
32, after expressing his confidence that the Father would
glorify him, he immediately subjoins, “ and he shall straight-
aay glorify him.” And in John 17. 5, this confidence
takes the form of a prayer : “ Glorify thou me, O Father;”
where it is observable that the word vir, note, again occurs,
evincing that Jesus beheld the event as just impending, and
by no means to be deferred to so late a period as forty days
after his death. As to his death itself being his glorifica­
tion, from the moral dignity displayed in it, this is an opin­
ion resting upon theological theory, and not upon Scripture
declaration. The Scriptures imperatively demand that the
ascension should be placed in the nearest possible proximity
with the death of the Saviour.
d. Intimately connected with this is the incident men­
tioned by more than one of the evangelists as having oc­
curred at the Saviour’s interview with the disciples on the
mountain in Galilee, where he had appointed to meet them
after his resurrection. When there assembled, Mat.' 28
Digitized by Google
160 T U E D O C T R IN E OP T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
18-20, we are told that “ Jesus came and spake unto them,
saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.
Go ye, therefore, and teach all nations,” &c. This lan­
guage, and his breathing upon them in token of his impart­
ing to them the Holy Spirit, supposes a previous ascension.
It is clear, from the general tenor both of the Old Testa­
ment and the New, that it was only after our Lord’s “ as­
cending up on high,” that he was to “ give gifts unto men,”
and we are elsewhere informed that “ the Spirit was not yet
given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.” His now giv­
ing the Spirit and clothing his disciples with their commis­
sion, was a proof that he was now glorified, and if so he
must have ascended. The exercise of the authority and
majesty which he here assumes as head of the mediatorial
kingdom, necessarily supposes his actual investiture with
the high prerogatives of that office. His resurrection and
ascension were necessary to his receiving the seal of the
Father’s acceptance of the work which he had accomplished
by his death. It is hardly possible, we think, to assign any
reason why this consummating step should be delayed for
forty days.
e. The narrative of Luke, Acts 1. 1-3, lends additional
confirmation to the view which supposes a plurality of as­
censions : “ The former treatise have I made, O Theophi­
lus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach, until the
day in which he was taken up, after that he through the
Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles
whom he had chosen : to whom also he showed himself alive
after his passion, by many infallible proofs, being seen of
them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to
the kingdom of God.” This is unquestionably a different
event from that related in the Gospel of the same evangelist,
Luke 24. 50-i>3, “ And he led them out as far as to Beth­
any ; and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. And it
came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from
them, and carried up into heaven. And they worshipped
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 161
him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy; and were
continually in the temple, praising and blessing God.
Amen.” Here is an entire omission of several of the lead­
ing circumstances of the former ascension—the latter in
point of time— which cannot well be accounted for on the
assumption that he is describing the same event. Nothing
is said of the cloud receiving him out of their sight—noth­
ing of the two angels that appeared on the occasion—noth­
ing respecting the question proposed to him by the apostles
as to the time of restoring the kingdom to Israel. Yet why
should these important items be omitted, if indeed the
same ascension is intended 1 But again, the place, as well
as the attendant circumstances, is different. In the Gospel
it is said to have been from Bethany, which was fifteen fur­
longs from Jerusalem, while in the Acts it is, by clear infer­
ence, the Mount of Olives, which was only about five. The
distance, it is true, is not great, and the road to Bethany
passes over the Mount of Olives; still the localities are not
identical, nor is it practicable to reconcile the statements of
the evangelist on this ground. Finally, we have only to re­
car to the passage in Acts to be convinced that the writer
is describing an ascension entirely different from that which
he had related in the Gospel. He first informs Theophilus
that in the former treatise he had related all that Jesus be­
gan both to do and to teach up to the day in which he was
taken up into heaven, i. e. on the evening of the resurrec­
tion, after he had given commandment to the disciples
whom he had chosen. He then goes on to add, “ To whom
also (o<$xal) he showed himself alive after his passion, by
many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days.”
What can be inferred from the use of xal, also, in this con­
nexion, but that besides aud after that first appearance and
ascension he had also manifested himself repeatedly during
the forty days that elapsed prior to the ascension which he
is now just about to record ? “ Thus we are compelled,” to
use the words of Kinkel, “ on all sides confidently to affirm,
Digitized by Google
162 TH E DOCTRINE OP THE RESURRECTION.
that Christ arose to heaven several times, and indeed after
each single appearance to his disciples, sometimes so that
he only vanished from them, at others rising visibly before
them, so that the ascension on the fortieth day appears par­
ticularly important only because with it the regular appear­
ances and communications to his disciples ceased.” (B ibli-
otk. Sac., Feb., 1644, p. 173.) The inference from all this
is obvious. If Christ ascended to heaven first immediately
after his resurrection, and repeatedly in the forty days sub­
sequent, he must have ascended in a spiritual body. If he
ascended in a spiritual body, he must have arisen in a spir­
itual body. Consequently, the phenomena indicating a ma­
terial body to the senses of the disciples must have been
miraculously assumed. In other words, they were mere ap­
pearances. If this conclusion can be avoided—how ? But
our catalogue of proofs is not exhausted.
(7.) The nature of our Saviour’s priestly office required"
an immediate ascension after his death and resurrection.
The Jewish High Priest, the grand type of Christ in this
character, as soon as the he-goat was slain on the day of
Atonement immediately carried the blood into the most
holy place and sprinkled it before the mercy-seat, and until
he had done this was not regarded as having completed
that solemnity. Accordingly, the apostle, Heb. 1. 3, com­
bines these two parts of our Lord’s priesthood: “ Having
by himself purged our sins, he sat down at the right hand of
the Majesty on h ig h a d d in g a quotation from the second
Psalm, which imports that he understood it of Christ’s as­
cension and exaltation : v. 4, 6 , “ Being made so much
higher than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a
more excellent name than they. For to which of the angels
said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I be­
gotten thee?” And we find that elsewhere the apostle
applies the same quotation in the same sense : Heb. 5. 5,
“ Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest;
but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, this day have
yGoogk
T H B SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 163
I begotten thee and that this properly imports the day ot
Christ’s resurrection is clear from Acts 13. 33: “ Having
raised up Jesus from the dead, as it is written in the second
Psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.”
These extracts all determine themselves to one point, viz.,
that the first ascension was on the same day with the resur­
rection.
(8.) The grand purpose for which the divine Redeemer
assumed a body of flesh was accomplished when he expired
upon the cross. Ttztlitnai, it isfinished, was his dying ex­
clamation. So also, just upon the eve of his crucifixion,
John 17. 4, “ I have finished the work which thou gavest
me to do.” Accordingly, when he had “ accomplished his
decease at Jerusalem,” he entered at once into a new state
and a netv dispensation. He now came into that economy
which was to bd emphatically o f the Spirit. The agency
of the Spirit is therefore prominent in the Scriptural ac­
counts of the resurrection; “ Declared to be the Son of
God with power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the
resurrection frdm the dead.” The uses of a material body
had now surceased for ever. He was now “ made a high
priest, ndt after the law of a carnal commandment, but
after the power o f an endless life." This life he entered
upon at his resurrection from the grave, of which it was not
possible that a spiritual body should be holden. The as­
sumption of a fleshly body pertained not to the work of his
glorification, but to that of his humiliation; and, having
once stooped to the work of humiliation, must he for ever
remain under it t When he had once travailed through
death, and conquered it, and him that had the power of it,
—having once risen triumphantly from its dark domains—
was it not fitting that he should completely lay aside every
vestige of the chief memento of a state from which he had
become so gloriously emancipated ? The work and the
kingdom of Christ were henceforward to be spiritual; what
yGoogk
1 6 4 THE DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
need, then, of the resurrection of the animal or material
body Î
But it is said that it must be deemed impossible to have
a ssured the disciples of the naked fact of his resurrection but
by the réanimation of the very body which had succumbed
to death on the cross. To this we reply, as we have in
e ffect replied already, that the great fact to be established
was the living again of that person who had bowed his
h ead upon Calvary, and “ given ùp the ghost.” But as his
true manhood, even during his earthly life, did not consist
in his body, but in an inner principle to which the body was
a mere adjunot, so the proof of the survival of his essential
being after death was independent of the proof of the resur­
rection of the identical body which was deposited in the
tomb of Joseph. If Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were still
li ving, as we hope shortly to prove, in spiritual bodies—if
Mo ses and Elias appeared in such bodies at the transfigura­
tion—if the saints universally go into the spiritual world in
such bodies—why should not the Lord of life himself have
immediately assumed a similar corporeity when he arose as
the first fruits from among the dead? Was not his spiritual
body himself? Was he not alive again? And was not
every purpose answered by the demonstration of this stu­
pendous fact? Suppose the celestial body of Elijah had
been made manifest to the senses subsequent to his trans­
lation, would it not have afforded irrefragable evidence of the
truth of his personal existence, notwithstanding the previous
disappearance from human view of the gross material body ?
Would the reconstruction of his dispersed earthly tenement
be requisite to certify the fact? Why then should not the
same evidence establish the same fact in regard to Christ ?
The apostle Paul, in 1 Cor. 9. 1, appeals to the fact of his
having seen Jesus Christ the Lord in proof his apostleship.
The force of his appeal depended upon his thus being made
a witness o f the resurrection. But he certainly beheld not
yGoogk
T U E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 6 6
his material body. It was a spiritual appearance with
which he was favored, and if such an appearance was a
proof of the resurrection in his case, why not also in the
case of the other apostles 1 The argument strikes us as
entirely conclusive. And how delightful and' interesting
the thought of so complete an identity of lot awaiting the
Head and the members of the redeemed mystical body—
that as we aTe planted in the likeness of his death, so we
shall be also in the likeness of hi3 resurrection—that as he
entered at once into a spiritual body and so abides, so shall
we also at death but exchange our present bodies of vileness
for our future bodies of glory fashioned like unto his !
We may admit indeed that the disciples supposed that
the body which they saw and handled was the veritable
bodyof their crucified Lord, and that in their preaching the
resurrection of Jesus they had no other idea than that of
the réanimation of his body of flesh. Under the influence
ofthose carnal apprehensions which they then cherished, it
was scarcely to be expected that they should have come to
any other conclusion- We have no grounds to imagine
that without a miracle they could have come to a sudden
recognition of a spiritual presence, when all the phenomena
addressed themselves in such a manner to their senses as to
beget the belief of a material substance. It is reasonable
indeed to suppose, that, as they subsequently became more
deeply instructed in the mysteries of the kingdom, and were
able to penetrate more fully its spiritual character, they
may have come by degrees to more correct views on this
subject ; at any rate, we know no reason why the measure
of their intelligence on this point should be the limit of
ours. It is sometimes objected that an unsophisticated
child, upon reading or hearing the evangelical narrative,
would inevitably receive the impression that the body
raised and manifested to the disciples was the literal mate­
rial body of Christ. Granted. We admit the fact, while
we deny the inference that would be drawn from it. The
w*
Digitized by Google
166 TME DOCTRINE OP TH E RESURRECTION.
same inspired truth which is milk for babes, is at the same
time strong meat for grown men. Let each extract from it
the pabulum which will sustain the soul. We Jive at a
more advanced period of the Christian economy, and have
the advantage of all those ulterior developments of its es­
sential genius which were wanting to the first age of the
church, and why should we close our eyes to the brighter
light that is shining around us for fear of seeing more than
Was seen in the earliest dawn of Christianity ?
Again, it is asked, If the material body did not rise, or
was not the proper subject of the resurrection, what became
of it? for it was not found in the sepulchre, neither did it
see corruption. To this we reply, (1,) that the objection
drawn from this source does not weigh exclusively against the
view we are now advocating. On the common theory, some
disposal is to be made of the fleshly body subsequent to the
resurrection, and prior to the ascension, for it is' admitted
that our risen Lord did not enter heaven in a body of flesh
and bones. By the solution which may be offered on this
score, whatever it may be, we will agree to abide; main­
taining, however, our previous position, that the ascension
occurred on the day of the resurrection. On either view
it must, we conceive, be maintained, that the body which
hung upon the cross was miraculously dissolved or resolved
into its primitive elements, like that of Elijah when he was
translated ; and all the difference in the two cases is, that in
the one this effect is to be supposed to have been wrought
while it reposed in the sepulchre, and, in the other, after it
emerged from it. As to the nature of the effect itself, it
must be deemed substantially the same on the one theory as
on the other. He died in a 'material body, he went into
heaven in a spiritual body. Whether the transition from the
one to the other took place sooner or later, the mode of it
was undoubtedly the same, and the question, what became
of the former when the latter was assumed, is one which
presses upon the opposite view as much as upon ours.
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 167
But (2,) we would, in our turn, propose an inquiry.
Was there not as much reason for a putting forth an act
of omnipotence in the removal of the body of Jesus from
the tomb, as there was for concealing the body of Moses
fromthe Israelites, so that no man knew of his sepulchre 1
If the chosen people were in danger of worshipping the body
of Moses, from their great reverence of his character, was
there not far greater danger of Christ’s body becoming a
snare to his followers, and a real hinderance to a right appre­
hension of the true nature of the resurrection, and of the
spiritual character of his kingdom ? How could they have
been adequately convinced of his being actually alive, of his
ascension and glorification, while they could, at any time,
by going there, have seen him, with the eye of sense, dead
in the tomb ? How much, moreover, would the ministry
of the first preachers of the Gospel have been embarrassed
in the proclamation of the great fact of the resurrection, if
his body had remained visible, or the mode of its removal
been commonly known ? Could the Jewish or Gentile gain-
sayer be expected to yield credence to the declaration, that
Jesus had risen from the dead and was still alive, when both
his tomb and his body could at any time be pointed out as
yet remaining with them ?
We have thus, as we were able, presented the leading
considerations on this profoundly interesting subject, and,
from a view of the whole, know not what resistance to offer
to the conclusion, that our Saviour rose from the dead in a
spiritual body, the same body in which he ascended to
heaven. T he prominent passages usually relied on in
proofof the resurrection of the material body, we have seen
to be capable of a fair and unforced interpretation in favor
of the opposite theory. This conclusion, thus sustained by
a legitimate exegesis, is not to be vacated by our inability to
define the precise relation that may be conceived to sub­
sist between the former and the latter corporeity. Whether
we are to recognize some hidden process of sublimation by
Digitized by Google
168 TH E DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
which the one was transmuted into the other, or whether the
material fabric, which the divinity inhabited prior to the
crucifixion, were resolved into its constituent elements, and
thus wholly laid aside upon the development of the spiritual
structure, we are not, perhaps, at present competent to de­
termine, nor is“it essential to the establishment of the main
position. So also of the real state of our Lord’s Spirit, in the
interval between his expiring on the cross and his resuscita­
tion on the third day, as revelation has thrown no light upon
it we are not called to be wise above what is written.* The
questioR m as difficult of solution on the common theory as
upon ours. The decision ofit involves a deeper knowledge of
the mysterious constitution ofChrist’sperson than we now pos­
sess— deeper, perhaps, than we may ever possess in this world.
But whatever the truth may be upon this point, we cannot
conceive- that any objection brought from it is sufficient to
invalidate the grand result which we have reached respecting
the nature of that body in which he appeared to his disci­
ples at the tomb in Jerusalem—on the way to Emmaus—on
the mountain in Galilee—and on the sacred summit of the
Mount of Olives. Though miraculously disguised, from the
exigency of the case, to the outward senses of his followers,
yet we cannot help regarding it as the true model and exem­
plar of the resurrection-bodies of the saints, when with them
mortality shall be swallowed up of life.
CHAPTER VIII. -
Examination o f Particular Passages.
P r o m i n e n t among the Scripture testimonies to the re­
surrection of the dead, and the stronghold of those who
* T h i s r e m a r k i s t o b e s o m e w h a t q u a li f i e d , a s w i l l b e s e e n b y o u r e x ­
p o s i t io n o f M a t . 2 7 . 5 3 , 5 4 , w h e r e , w e t r u s t , w e h a v e f o u n d a c le w t o th e
t r u e d o c t r i n e o f t h e ‘ d e s c e n t i n t o h e l l .'
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 69
maintain the prevalent view, is the fifteenth chapter of Paul’s
first epistle to the Corinthians. To this passage, therefore,
shall we give our first attention, since, if this can be fairly
interpreted in favor of the spiritual theory, we can antici­
pate little difficulty in dealing with the other texts in the
New Testament, which treat of the subject. ,We are not
without strong hopes that a rigid analysis of the apostle’s
argument in this chapter may put an entirely new complexion
upon it, in the estimation of the candid reader. We shall
premise the remark, in which nearly all commentators agree,
that, whatever be the intrinsic nature of the resurrection
which the apostle discusses, it pertains exclusively to the
righteous. It is by no means an announcement of a gene­
ral resurrection of all men without distinction. We go into
no formal proof on this head, because it is obvious from the
letter of the record, and because we find the resurrection
elsewhere spoken of, in repeated instances, as the privilege,
par eminence, of believers only. Doddridge remarks, that
it is “ of the resurrection of Christians alone, and not of that
of the wicked, that he evidently speaks, in this whole chap­
ter.” Of the passage in Acts 24. 15, which seems to con­
tradict this position, we shall have occasion to speak here­
after.
1 C or. XV. 12, 13.
G R .
Ei de X qujtos xrjQvaasiai
on ex rsxQar sy^yeqzai, ¡tmg
hyovaizivtg ev vfur, on arcta-
tuaig rsxQuv ovx iazir ;
Ei Se avaazaoig vsxqcov ovx
k u v , ovde Xqiazog ¿yrjysQzai.
EN G . V E R S.
Now if Christ be preached
that he rose from the dead, how
say some among you that there
is no resurrection of the dead ?
But if there be no resurrec­
tion of the dead, then is Christ
not risen.
The special doctrine of the resurrection, as generally
held to be taught in this chapter, is that of a simultaneous
resurrection at what is termed ‘ the last day,’ or at ‘ the end
of the world.’ On this view it may fairly be submitted as a
yGoogk
1 7 0 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
question, whether the apostle’s reasoning is conclusive. We
are unable to perceive how the fact of a resurrection at some
future time can be adduced as a proofthat Christ was already
risen. And, on the other hand, if it could be shown that
there will be no such resurrection, would that be a proof that
Christ is not risen 1 Is it not, at least, within the range of
possibilities that he should be the only one raised ? The
truth is, as the apostle’s argument is usually explained, it
makes it little more than mere reasoning in a circle. First,
the future resurrection of the saints is proved by the past
resurrection of Christ; and then, secondly, the past resur­
rection of Christ is proved by the future resurrection of
his people. This consequence flows naturally and inevi­
tably from regarding the resurrection of the righteous as a
future simultaneous event. Let it be understood as a pres­
ent event, or one that takes place with every individual be­
liever as soon as he leaves the body, and this logical incon­
sistency is avoided, and a flood of light poured upon the
train of the apostle’s reasoning.
V. 16-18.
EN G . V E R S .
For if the dead rise not, then
is not Christ raised :
And if Christ be not raised,
your faith is vain; ye are yet
in your sins.
Then they also which are
fallen asleep in Christ are per­
ished.
E i yaq vexqoi ovx eyeiQovzai,
ot8e X quhos iyrjysQtai'
ei 8e Xoiazog, ovx iyt'ysQzat,
pa.za.ia. ij niazit vpav ■ ezi
¿oze iv zaig apaQziag vptor ’
ago. xai ol xotprftivzig iv
X qkszqi ¿.TiaXovzo.
The gist of the apostle’s argument occurs in a subse­
quent part of the chapter, but we cannot but advert to the
present passage as conveying a very singular sentiment on
the common theory, that Paul is here maintaining the resur­
rection o f the body. Upon that view we are at a loss to
perceive the logical coherence of the reasoning. How does
it follow that those who had fallen asleep in Jesus had per­
ished, provided there was no resurrection of the body?
Their souls, the true constituent of themselves, were certainly
Digitized by Google
T H E 'SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 171
in being, and what should prevent their souls being saved,
even if their bodies did not rise? We are well aware that
a different sense is put upon the words by many commenta­
tors, but we still do not hesitate to affirm, that the most
native and obvious import of the language is that of the
present existence of the persons spoken of. If they are not
risen—if they are not actually entered upon their resurrec­
tion-state—where are they ? What evidence is there of
their existing at all ? Accordingly, he immediately adds,
“ If in this life only we have hope, we are of all men most
miserable;” showing, conclusively, that he is reasoning
against those who confined their hopes of happiness to this
Ufe only. His object is mainly to combat the error of those
who supposed that the Christian’s hope terminates here, and
therefore he is not to be understood as writing against those
who denied the resurrection o f the body, but those who
denied any resurrection at all, i. e. any future life, any state
of retribution previous to Christ’s second coming.
It may not, indeed, be easy to ascertain how it should
have happened that such an idea should have obtained cur­
rency among any who could properly have been denominated
believers in the Corinthian church. Some have supposed
that they were Jewish-Christians, who still retained the
leaven of Sadduceeism in their creed, which, as Jews of all
shades of belief were scattered over the Roman empire, is
not in itself improbable. But the view of Billroth strikes
ns as the truest solution of the question.
“ In order to place the matter in a clear light, we must
take into consideration a fact in the history of opinion
among the early Christians. That fact is the prevailing ex­
pectation among them of the immediate return of Christ, in
connexion with which event they expected the fulfilment of
>
1
1Christ’s promises, and the perfection of the Messianic
reign. The peculiar aim of the Christian, therefore, was not
the life before, but the life after, Christ’s return. But by
whom would this aim be reached ? By those naturally, in
Digitized by Googk
1 7 2 TH E DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
the first instance, who outlived the intervening period. Such,
therefore, had comfort under all the trials of life, but how
was it with those who should die beforehand? Such a
question would very natundly disquiet the minds of the be­
lievers, and take from them the joy of life. So it was with
the church of Thessalonica, whose condition Pelt, in his
Commentary on the epistles to that church, p. 83, thus ac­
curately describes: ‘ Many errors had arisen among the
Thessalonians respecting the resurrection, so that some
feared lest, should they or their friends die before the coming
of the Lord, they should be deprived of that blessing which
they supposed to be promised only to those who should be
then alive.’ The same state of things, doubtless, prevailed
among the Corinthians. The majority, indeed, comforted
themselves with the certain hope of a resurrection antece­
dent to the coming of Christ; but some (the tivig, ver. 12)
had doubts respecting the resurrection itself, and conse­
quently of any participation on the part of those already
dead in the enjoyment of the coming reign. The great ob­
ject of Paul, then, in this section is, to show that before the
return of Christ to the earth, a resurrection shall certainly
take place of those who are dead, that they also may share
in the blessings of his reign; and that this shall happen
within the period of an ordinary lifetime.”
The refutation of the error in question, however, did
not require that the resurrection o f the body should enter
into the apostle’s argument. On the other hand, by substi­
tuting, throughout all the chapter, ' living again,’—‘ future
life’—‘ future state’—as a state to be immediately entered
upon at death, instead of ‘ resurrection,’ implying the resur­
rection of the body—the whole course of reasoning becomes
luminous and pertinent, while it is, at the same time, brought
into perfect harmony with the general tenor of the Scrip­
tures on the subject.
But we follow the footsteps of the writer in his argument.
yGoogk
T U E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 173
V. 20-23.
ENG. VERS.
But now is Christ risen from
the dead, and become the first-
fruits of them that slept.
For since by man came
death, by man came also the
resurrection of the dead.
For as in Adam ail die, even
so in Christ shall all be made
alive.
But every man in his own
order: Christ the first-fruits;
afterward they that are Christ’s
at his coming.
Nvvl 8s Xgiarog syyysqxai
k texqav, unuQyfi tcov xsxoi-
¡irifisvav.
‘
EnsiS'q yap 8t av&Qtonov o
duvaxog, xal St av&Qcorzov
aftttntustg vsxqoov.
"iigizeg yuQ tv rq5 'X8d(t
rturxsg dno&trjaxovoiv, ovtco
xal iv rep Xgiarqi navxtg
ImnoitjO-yoovrat.
Exaozog 8s tv rqi I8im xay-
ftaxr anaQx'rj Xytaxog, srxst-
xa ol tov X qiotov iv ry na-
govaia avrov.
As the first-fruits of the harvest are a sample of the whole,
andbeing presented in the temple denominate the remainder
pure and holy, so Christ, who, after his resurrection, was
presented in the heavenly temple, may justly be regarded as
an exemplar and type of the state of those who fall asleep
in him, and an argument that they are not, as dead bodies
were, among the polluted things of the world, but holy to
the Lord, and admitted to his presence. The idea is not so
much that Christ was the first, in the order o f tim e, who rose
from the dead—as we are expressly taught, both in the Old
Testament and the New, that prior cases of resurrection
had repeatedly occurred—but the fir s t in ra n k, the author,
the p ro cu rin g cause, o f the resurrection o f the saints. But
the whole harvest began to be gathered in im m ediately a fte r
the presentation of the first-fruits, and it would be a very
violent construction of the analogy to suppose it to imply
that hundreds or thousands of years might elapse between
the resurrection of the grand Precursor and that of the mass
of his followers. The true view of the matter is clearly in­
dicated by the sequel, in which we are taught, that this re­
suscitation of the dead, this investiture of the disciples of
Christ with immortality, proceeds in a manner analogous
Digitized by Googk
1 7 4 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
with the successive generations of the animal and mortal
family, who derive their first life from Adam. As this first
family is not formed at once, nor dissolved at once ; as the
members of it have risen into existence in succession ; so
neither will the other family be completed at once. Every
man of this family is to be quickened ‘ in his own order,’ or
as he dies, from Christ the first-fruits down through the
lapse of ages to the last generation of believers who shall
be found alive at his coming. But this second coming of
Christ, as we shall shortly attempt to show, was universally
understood in the apostle’s days as to take place during the
then current generation of men—an expectation founded
upon the words of Christ himself, that “ that generation
should not pass till all these things were fulfilled.”
V. 35-37.
GR.
A l l ’ êgeî tig ’ n<5g syiçov-
tai olvexgoi; noloi de aúnan
íqXovjui ;
1
A cçqov, av o anetgeig, ov
Çcoonoieîrat, iàr ¡
j.i¡àno&drr¡.
Kat o aneíqeig, ob tb aúpa
to yevijeofietor anelgeig, â/Llà
yvfivov xóxxov, el tvyoi, aítov
f¡ ttvog túv loinúv.
ENG. VER3.
But some man will say, How
are the dead raised up? and
with what body do they come 1
Thou fool, that which thou
sowest is not quickened except
it die.
And that which thou sowest,
thou sowest not that body that
shall be, but bare grain: it may
chance of wheat, or of some
other grain.
We have here and in the sequel the most full, explicit,
and systematic discussion of the general subject of the resur­
rection, any where to be found in the Scriptures; and what­
ever else may be taught by it, we think nothing can be more
unequivocally asserted, than that man does not rise again
with the same body which he had in this world. The em­
ployment of the analogy from the vegetable world was per­
haps suggested by our Saviour’s words, John 12.24: “ Verily,
verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into
the ground and die, it abideth alone (i. e. is wholly unpro­
ductive) ; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.” In
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 175
the present state of our scientific knowledge, it might,
perhaps, appear that an analogy drawn from insect transmu­
tations would have been still more striking; but it may be
questioned whether the facts in this province of nature were
known to the apostle, and at any rate the law of vegetable
reproduction to which he refers is sufficiently apropos to his
main design.
The grand inquiry evidently is, to ascertain the precise
point of the analogy in the two cases, for upon this every
thing depends. There is, in the first place, a coincidence
in the fact of dying. In both cases there is that process of
decay and dissolution which we denominate death. In the
grain the mass of the farinaceous parts, except so much as
may be necessary to the sustentation of the future plant in
its earlier stages, dies. And so the human body undergoes
a similar process of dissolution. Yet here we must aim at
precision of ideas, and note the points of difference as well
as ofsimilitude. The ‘ dying,’ which the apostle predicates
of the seed, takes place subsequently to the sowing. But
the human body does not die after it is deposited in the dust.
It is previously dead—“ for the body without the spirit is
dead ”—and therefore cannot die again. That which is ab­
solutely dead cannot be more dead. Still there are items of
agreement sufficient to form a basis for the comparison,
which will appear as we proceed.* As there is something
in the plant which dies, so there is also something which
does not die. There is an enfolded germ, in which the es­
sential vitality of the seed is concentrated, and if this dies,
it does not germinate, and of course no plant springs up.
We cannot, of course, suppose that the apostle intended to
saj that this embryo died, although this is the very point of
* The remark of Whitby in this connexion iswell worthy of notice:
“The word ‘sown ’ does not relate to the body’s being laid in the earth,
bat rather to its production in the world.” According to this, a “ natural
bodyis sown ” at our natural birth ; a “ spiritual body is raised,” as far as,
the righteous are concerned, at the hour of death.
Digitized by Google
176 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
Thomas Paine’s railing accusation against the Scripture
doctrine of the resurrection, and on the ground of which he
calls St. Paul a fool; contending that, if the seed really and
literally died, no plant would grow, which is indeed true.
But this evidently is not the apostle’s meaning; and if the
skeptic had ever put his hand into a hill of young potatoes,
he might have found, to his discomfort, that there was such
a thing as vegetable life and death going on together ; and
such a penance, or penalty, would not perhaps have been
very inappropriate to such paltry and contemptible cavil­
ling.
We see, then, very clearly, the law of vegetable reproduc­
tion. The new plant arises from the development of a germ
in the old one. The vitality of the seed adheres to the germ
and passes with it into the new organization which succeeds,
and with the vitality coexists the identity of the plant. So it
is that we sow not the body which shall be. We sow a grain
of wheat, and what is it that comes up? Not the grain of wheat,
but a blade of grass. It eventuates, indeed, in a head of wheat
similar to that which is sown. But this is not the point of the
apostle’s argument. His reasoning, so to speak, does not rise
above the surface of the ground. He designs to show that
that product which springs out ofthe earth, and appears on its
bosom, is something different from that which is put into the
soil. If we. call this the resurrection of the seed, it is per­
fectly obvious that the term resurrection, in this connexion,
does not imply the reappearance of the same material mass
—the same aggregation of particles—which was deposited
in the earth; for the mass, with the exception of the germ,
dies—that is, is resolved into dust and its various constituent
elements.
Now, if this process is made use of by the apostle to
illustrate the resurrection of the human body, we do not see
but we must be forced to the admission of some kind of
germ which is developed from the one that is the nucleus—
the essential vital principle—of the other. It will soon ap­
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 177
pear, indeed, that it is a germ of a very peculiar nature, but
still that there is something to be developed from the dead
body. If not, how does the illustration apply? What is the
point of the comparison ? But if there be this embryo
principle in the human body, is it material?—is it of the
same nature with the gross fabric from which it is develop­
ed? This, it will be perceived, is the grand question. The
ancient Jews held that it was. They contended that there
was an immortal bone in the human body (called bythemiwz
—ossiculum L uz), which is the germ ofthe resurrection-body.
This bone, they held, one might burn, boil, bake, pound,
bruise, or attempt to bruise, by putting it on the anvil and
submitting it to the strokes of the sledge-hammer, but all in
vain. No effect would be produced upon it. It was indestruc­
tible—incorruptible—immortal. This bone was the seed of
the future body. And this is, in fact, though not in terms,
the theory embraced by Drew in his work on the resurrec­
tion. But as the most accurate researches of physiologists
have failed to discover any such bone in the system, and as
the process of burning leaves no such residuum of the cor­
poreal structure, we are doubtless at liberty to set it down
among the thousand and one idle dreams of Rabbinical fic­
tion, and put it on the same shelf with the silly tradition of
the Talmúdica! doctors, that at the resurrection the bodies
of the Jews, in whatever part of the world they died, will
be rolled or transported under ground, through secret pas­
sages, and all emerge to the light in the land of Canaan, with
those of Abraham, and Isaac, and the other patriarchs.
Still there is undoubtedly a strong disposition among
many good men to adhere to this idea of a corporeal or ma­
terial germ to be in some way developed from the old body,
and constituting the nucleus of the new one. But if this be
so, what and where is it ? What becomes of it when the
body is burnt to ashes, and these ashes dissipated to the four
winds? Is there any evidence that can satisfy an intelligent
mind of the fact of such a latent material germ in the hu­
Digitized by Googk
178 T U E D O C T R IN E OF T U E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
man body, answering to the enfolded embryo of the future
plant ? And if there is no evidence of this, on what grounds
do we hold it ?
But it will be said, if the apostle’s analogy does not teach
this, what does it teach ? If the fair construction of his lan­
guage does not imply that there is something developed out
of the dead body which forms the link of connexion be­
tween it and the resurrection-body, then it would be hard to
show that it teaches any thing on the subject, an alternative
to which, with the qualifications and explanations that follow,
we readily subscribe. We cannot understand the apostle’s
reasoning, unless he means to affirm that there is something
of the nature of a germ which emanates from the defunct
body, and forms either the substance or the nucleus of the
future resurrection-body. But this principle we contend to
be what the apostle calls sp iritu a l, that is, invisible, impal­
pable, refined, ethereal—something that is essentially con­
nected with vital operations—something that is exhaled with
the dying breath, or, in other words, that goes forth from the
body before it is consigned to the d u st—for, after the body has
mouldered away in the grave, we perceive not how any germ or
embryo is ever to emanate from it. It is a something, of the
interior nature of which all the philosophers in the world know
just as much as our readers, and no more. At the same time
this ignorance does not stand in the way of thefa c t . And if
this alleged fact be not admitted, what is? What will any man
affirm to be the real point of the apostle’s comparison? If
there is some gross m a teria l link of connexion between the
soul’s present and future tenement, what is it? Let it be
pointed out, and let it be shown too that a v ita lizin g power
is connected with it. For ourselves, we confess it completely
baffles our comprehension, and if any one can enlighten
our darkness on the subject—if he will show us that there is
any other than a sp iritu a l germ evolved from the defunct
body—we will sit at his feet with the glad docility of a
learner who hungers and thirsts for instruction more than
yGoogk
T U E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 1 / 9
for his necessary food. With our present light we must be­
lieve that the only germ in the human body answering to the
germinthe plant, and upon which the apostle’s comparison is
built, is the spir itual body itself; and the erroneous appre­
hension which has sprung up on the subject, we think to
have arisen from supposing the comparison to be based upon
thecondition of the two bodies—the vegetable and the ani­
m
al—after both are deposited in the dust. Whereas the
true view doubtless is, to conceive the germ of the plant to
bedeveloped after its consignment to the earth, but that of
the body before. On any other construction we can make
nothing of the illustrating analogy.
We hear it, indeed, not unfrequently suggested, that the
comparison here introduced was never intended to be very
closely pressed—that it is sufficient if we simply under­
stand by it, that as a naked grain, after being deposited in the
earth, is followed by a beautiful vegetable structure, so the
corruptible body, deposited in the grave, is followed by a
splendid renascent fabric, adapted to a new sphere of exist- .
ence—and that there was no design to hint at the detailed-
operation of any particular process in either case. But in
our view nothing is more certain, than that the apostle in­
tended distinctly to teach, that as the grain of wheat obtains
a new body only by previously dying, so man, by undergo­
ing a similar process, becomes possessed, in like manner, of
a new investment. We cannot suppose Paul to have had
recourse to the comparison, without having in view some
point of resemblance in the two cases. That point his own
words certainly develope. In regard to the grain, he affirms,
‘Thou sowest not the body that shall be.’ What is the cor­
relative to this, unless it be, that ‘ the body that dies is not
the same body that shall be at or after the resurrection ’? If
so, how is it possible to turn away our eye from the natural
law by which the change is in either case effected ; or re­
frain from instituting a comparison between the two? But
we affirm that this cannot be done without arriving legiti­
Digitized by Googk
180 T H E D O C T R IN E OP T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
mately at the conclusion, that, as the plant emerges from the
seed by the expansion of the germ, by the uninterrupted
action of the vital principle, so the spiritual body must de-
velope itself immediately by the continuous operation of a
like agency. Admit, for a moment, the idea that the life
itself of the body ceases, and that it is only after long ages
of time that the succeeding corporeity ensues, and the anal­
ogy is at once destroyed. The true life of the seed is not
for an instant intermitted, even in the midst of its d yin g ;
and we maintain, that it is only by the development of the
spiritual body at death, and not from the entombed relics in
the grave, that any parallelism in the two cases can be re­
cognized.
If the view now proposed ofthe matter be sound, the above
question, which immediately arises, as to the time when this
spiritual embryo may properly be said to germinate, becomes
of absorbing moment. Is the resurrection-body assumed at
once, or does a long interval of time elapse before that event
occurs? If the theory of a gross material germ were to be
assumed as the true one, we can easily perceive that there
.would be nothing in the nature of the case to forbid the
idea of a long interval intervening before it should be quick­
ened into its ultimate formation. The vital power of seeds
often remains dormant for an immensely long period; and
so it might be in regard to the germ of a human body, pro­
vided we could have evidence that any such germ existed,
and that a vital energy was associated with it. But here is
the precise point of the difficulty. We see no adequate
grounds for believing that such a staminal principle, mate­
rial in its qualities, exists; and till this is shown, we are re­
lieved of the necessity of any other reference to the theory,
than to demand of those who hold it to answer this fair in­
terrogatory : If the resurrection of the body, which is de­
posited in the earth, depends on the. development of a
corporeal germ, which no process of reasoning or experiment
can show to exist, and the body itself is resolved back to
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL AROUMKNT. 1 81
its original elements, then on what basis rests the doctrine
of the resurrection of that body—the tabernacle which we
hare inhabited on earth 1 It will not do to say that God can
rebuild the original fabric, for this contradicts and makes
useless the doctrine of the material germ.
We are inevitably thrown back, then, as far as we can
see, on the theory, so to term it, of the immediate develop­
ment and assumption of the spiritual body, and its entrance
it once apon the resurrection-state. We know not how to
conceive of a pause—a long suspension—in the essential
activity of the vital principle with which thought and con­
sciousness are connected. We are not, we presume, address­
ing those who believe in the sleep of the soul after death,
but those who expect to retain their conscious existence in
the world o f spirits. And if our intelligent principle goes
with the vital, which depends upon various hidden ethereal
agencies constantly operating around us, why shall we not
iajer that our spiritual mode of being commences at once
upon the abandonment of our gross corruptible tenements ?
We may perhaps admit, as some are disposed to maintain,
that this spiritual body does not attain to its perfection at
once; that as it enters the spiritual world as a germ, so, as
the vital principle, under appropriate laws, forms for itself
—or, as the Gformans say, builds up for itself—a material body,
out of material elements; in like manner it may gradually
elaborate for itself a spiritual corporeity, from the spiritual
elements by which it is surrounded. This, we say, may
possibly be so. We can at present neither gainsay nor affirm
it; nor has it any special bearing on the main position,
which is, that the resurrection of each individual, properly
speaking, takes pldce at death, when we suppose the devel­
opment of the spiritual body to occur. And what else, we
should ask again, can be made of Paul’s comparison? Is it
not the legitimate and irresistible inference ? And does not
his own language, in the context, perfectly quadrate with
this construction ? “ There are bodies celestial, and there
9
Digitized by Google
1 8 2 THE DOCTRINE O f THE RESURRECTION.
are bodies te rre s tria li. e., human bodies. It is, we believe,
not unusual for expositors to understand the phrase ‘bodies
celestial,’ of the sun, moon, End planets. But this is en­
tirely a modern diction. There is no evidence, we believe,
that the original <
r<
L(ionat was ever used m this sense by the
ancient writers, sacred or profane. The ‘bodies,’ of which
the apostle here speaks, are hitman bodies, and, as he says
there are (not shall be) celestial human bodies, what other
inference can we draw, than that they are the glorified resur­
rection-bodies in which the risen saints now exist 1
V. 38-41.
GR.
' 0 i s & e o ç a v t i ÿ iiS o a a i a w -
f i a x a & à s ij& e h }G t, x d t s x a a r tb
r m r a a sç fic c ro a v t o iS to v a ü f t a .
O v t t â a u f/ a v r il
¿¿/là a X k ri Iusv à v & Q v m io v ,
¿ i l t ] S s ffàçl x t i j v û v , i l l i i S s
îy & v a v , a i.h ] d s m r p S t r .
K a i a m / t a r a s n o v ç i n a , x c ù
o o i f t a r a i m y e t a ’ à U ‘ s t i ç a
f ù v îj t m s n o v q a v ito v do|u,
i r s 'ç a S s i] t w v im y s tc a v .
** -A U ii S o ^ a îjh io v xal i U i j
S o jja G sX ijn if x a t a U t j S o t-a à o -
T S Q m v’ l â f f r ç p y à ç ù g t s 'qoç
S ia tp s'ç st s v Âo'lrç.
EN G . V E R S .
But God giveth it a body as
it bath pleased him, and to
every seed his own body.
All flesh is not the same
flesh; but there is one kind of
flesh of men, another flesh of
beasts, another of fishes, and
another of birds.
There are also celestial bo­
dies, and bodies terrestrial: but
the glory ofthe celestial is one,
and the glory of the terrestrial
is another.
There is one glory ofthe sun,
and another glory of the moon,
and another glory of the stars;
for one star differeth from an­
other star in glory.
There can be little doubt we think, that with multitudes
of the readers tff this apostle these words are loosely under­
stood to intimate that it is in effect the same body (of the
seed) which is sown in the earth, which comes forth out of
it, although the apostle had just affirmed the contrary ; and
therefore the inference is hastily drawn, that as God gives to
every seed his own body, so in like manner he gives to every
man his own body, i. e., the same body.* But a moment’s re­
* “ But your Lordship proves it to be the same body, by these three
Greek words of the text, t 4 Uiv edfia, which your Lordship inter-
Digitized by Google
T H E H U P T O U L ABOOMKMT. 1 8 3
Section will convince ue that by *giving to every seed his own
body’ is m eant nothing m ore than his giving to every seed a
bodypeculiar to that kind o f seed. A seed of wheat does not
produce a stalk o f barley, nor a seed of barley a stalk of
wheat. The species are kept distinct by a mysterious ar­
rangement of Providence. This is the force of the original
xoibior aoyui, his own proper body, i. e. the body which it is
fitted to produce, which is of the same kind. God in the
constitution of the vegetable kingdom has established, from
bis mere good pleasure, such laws as will regulate the pro­
cess of reproduction, and cause that certain seeds shall give
rise to certain plants and no others. In like manner he
proceeds, in the following verses, to show by similitudes
drawn from various natural objects, that man may have a
different body fitted to the different state in which he enters
at death—that though the natural body should rise no
more, yet provision is made for his being furnished with a
better in its stead ; for as there is an earthly body adapted
to an earthly life, so there is a heavenly body adapted to a
heavenly life. The existence in such profusion of different
species of bodies in the universe, ought to furnish an argu­
ment that there was nothing incredible in the idea of the
frets thus, • That proper body which belongs to it.' Ans. Indeed, by
iIksc Greek w o r d s , w h e th e r our translators have rightly rendered them,
' his own body,’ or your Lordship more rightly, • dial proper body which
W u a g sto It,' Ifonnevly nnderetood no more but this, «lint in the produc-
"'Si of wheal and other grain from Beed, God contrives! every species dis­
tinct,so th a t from grains of wheat sown,root, stalk, blade, ear, .and grains
°f » h e a t were produced, and not those of barley; and so of the rest,
wliieh 1 took to be the meaning of *to every seed his own body.’ No,
’nT
*your Lordship, these words prove, that to every plnnt of wheat, and
loevery g ra in of wheat produced in it, is given *the proper body that be­
ta's* to it,’ i. e., the same body with the grain tliat was sown. This, I
'fnliw. I do not understand; because I do not understand how one indi-
vidunl grain can be the tame with twenty, fifty, or an hundred individual
Chains."—¡jocko's Letter to Stillingflcet, p. 137.
Digitized by Goog -
1 84 THE DOCTKINK OF THE XEKORKECTIOK.
•lin ts ’ being im m ediately invested with appropriate bodies
in another state, as well as in this— nothing w hich could
justly authorize the objection, that because the body which
was laid in the grave rem ains there, therefore there is bo
resurrection of the man. T h e following verses are m erelj
an expansion of this general idea.*
V. 43-44.
G R . KXG. V C R S.
Orro» xa't ¡i ¿yuataan' Tt>>f So nlso is the resurrection of
n x o w r ‘ o x tim tu i i t « . W , '»ie den.i. It is sow.» in corrup-
• ; lioo, it is raised in mcorrupuou:
t/tiQirut tr itqOuQmn 1 r
am iQ izai i f arifti/t, iya'fit- It 1
» »own in dishonor, it it
t«i i f ¿«ip o n tin e n tiif aoite- fused in glory: it is sown in
. tint, iyiineiat i f SvmfUt • wciiUe», it is raised in power:
o.-xt('(»fr«(mbfui wkmoV, *W- ft ¡3 80wn a na(ural ll0(ly jt
Qtztii awftit TTfivftrtuxov * to n ¡8 raised a spiritual body.
awful ii'i/iy.ir, y.ui tcrtt ca /tu There is n natural body, and
nftviiunxot. there is a spiritual body.
The true purport of this language is not so obvious as
might at first blush appear. The point of difficulty is to
determine whether the 1 sowing 1 as applied to the body, is
to be understood of its consignment to dust, or, as Whitby
suggests, of the corrupt and corruptible nature in which
m an is born into the world.t In favor of the former in-
• “ The sense is, *There is a great variety of bodies. Look upon the
heavens, and see the splendor of the sun, the moon, and the stats. And
then look upon the earth, and see the bodies there—the bodiesofmen,and
brutes, and insects. You see here two entire classes ofbodies. You see
how they ditrer. Can it be deemed strange if there should be a difference
between our liodies when on earth, and when in heaven 1 Do we not,
in fa ct, see a vast difference between what strikes our eye here on earth
and in the sky? And why should we deem it strange that between
bodies adapted to live here and bodies adapted to live in heaoen, then-
should he a difference, like that which is seen lietween the objects which
appear on earth and those which appear in the sky V" Barnesjn loe.
I Mr. Locke, as appears in his note on these words, evidently agrees
with Whitby on this p o i n t " The time that man is in this world, affixed
yGoogk
TH E KCKIPTCRAL AEOOMINT. 18$
terpret&tion, it is doubtless true that it makes the com­
parison more strikiug. But oil the other hand, we hare seen
that the analogy will not bear to be pressed to the quick, as
it is obvious that the dying affirmed of the seed is not
strictly parallel with the dying which holds good of the
body. In the one case it takes place after the subject is
deposited in the earth, in the other before. But another
consideration o f still greater weight is derived from the con­
trast which follows between Adam and Christ. “ And so it
is written, the first Adam was made a living so vyri'w
Svetl), the last Adam a quickening spirit.” But how
does this illustrate the case of the natural and spiritual
body 1 The answer to this is suggested by the import of
the terras which the writer employs. The original word
for 40M/(y>t!?r;) is that which is always employed by the apos­
tle to denote the animal soul, or the life o f the natural or
nnimal man, as contradistinguished from spiritual. It is the
substantive from which is formed the adjective yu'/ixoi, always
translated in the New Testament natural. Now the apostle
had just said that “ it is sown a natural body, it is raised
a spiritual body.” Here he refers us to the origin of these
two bodies. T he one is derived from Adam, the other from
Christ. In Adam we are sown a Datura] bodyi in Christ we are
raised a spiritual body. His object is to teach that there is
justsuch a difference between our natural and spiritual body,
asthere is between the nature which we receive from Adam,
and the nature which we subsequently receive from Christ.
The *sowing ’ therefore is our birth in Adam, or in the
nature of Adam, and our resurrection but the finished result
of our birth by regeneration in Christ; “ for as the Father
tothis earth, is his being sown, and not when, being dead,he is put in the
nave, ns is evident from St. Paul's own words. For dead things are not
•own • seeds ore sown, being «live, and die not till after they ore sown.
Besides, he that will attentively consider what follows, will find reason
from St. Paul's arguing to understand him so."—Paraph, and N otts on
the Epistles, p. 101-
Digitized by Googk
rafeeth up the dead, and quickened» whom ho wiH, so hath
he given to the Son to have Irie in himself,” i. e., to be the
communicator of spiritual life, of which the resurrection of
the righteous dead, of whom alone he is here speaking, is
bnt the completed issue; So far is the apostle from teaching
that the body is ‘ sown’ by being deposited in the grave. It
is sown at its birth, and not at its death.*
1 8 6 T H S DOOTR1NI W T O * H igtfintX C T IO N .
* The following passage was not met with till after the above was
written.
“ Confessedly certain as is the corporeality of the risen saints, room is
open for inquiring what corporeality it is which is to be understood as
transmuted and risen to heaven. When St. Paul speaks of ‘this corrup­
tible,’ ' this mortal ’—when he sayB, *it is sown in corruption, it is raised
Inineorruption ’—does he refer to the sarkous mass left behind by the de-
eeaeed ? Is the funeral of the fleshly frame the towing of the seed 1 la
the sepulchral enclosure the seed-plot1 Is the putrescent frame itself the
bared but solid, the denuded bnt valuable, the relatively dead but really
living, the seemingly decomposing, but actually germinating grain 1 Or
is it, when its purposes asan envelope are answered, mere chaff detached
by the flail of disease, and blown away by the wind of death !
“ Evident it will be, on a eabn perusal of his eloquent argument, that
the apoetle has no reference to the sepafchre, or the funeral, or the soul-
bereft corpse. His controversy was not with any who themselves denied,
or with any who imagined any Christian instructer to have ever taught,
or fancied, that the deposited frame would again be animated by any but
reptile vitality; his controversy was with parties who, if they did not set
aside entirely an after life, or deny in tbto a resurrection of the dead,pe­
remptorilydenied a resurrection from the dead, and while thereby exclud­
ing the fear of judgment from, themselves, cut off from the faithftil the
prospect of reaching heaven. Had the reintegration of the disintegrated
corpse been the position denied, the deniers, instead ofbeing indignantly op­
posed, would have been cordially supported by all the apostle’s authority.
Far toopositiVely’had St. Paul decided, that he who sowed to the flesh
should reap corruption, to allow of his supposing that he who sowed the
flesh itself would reap any thing else than mere putridity. Not one of his
pleas, nor one of his expressions throughout the course of his discussion
can be made to apply to the fleshlyframe, then only occasionally moulder­
ing in the ground, but ever, after an interval, monldered away. Neither
germination ((aowoifjttn), nor wakening tip (fytfxnt), nor H anding up
(dviiurams), nor transformation (dXXoyi)), nor putting on investiture
yGoogk
THB SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 8 7
At the same time, although we are fully persuaded that
this is the true sense of the apostle’s language in this con­
nexion, yet we are not absolutely shut up to it in order to
make good the view we are advocating. Even interpreted
on the common theory, it does not necessitate the infer­
ence, that the resurrection here spoken of is the resurrec­
tion of the body, although it is doubtless the resurrection of
a body. W e are aware, indeed, that it is generally held
that it is the very same body that is sown iu corruption
in the grave that is raised in incorruption out of the
grave. But to our mind it is clear that the fact of its
being incorruptible, proves that it cannot be the same with
that which, is corruptible, and that nothing more is meant,
than that the corruptible shall be exchanged for the incor­
ruptible, the mortal for the immortal. The established
idiomof the Scriptures affords decisive warrant for this con­
struction. Examples occur where the demonstrative ‘ it, ’
which usually impliés the same as the antecedent noun to
which it stands related, refers not to precisely the same sub­
ject, but to one that succeeds. Thus Luke 9. 34: “ For
whosoever will save his life, shall lose i t ; but whosoever
Mims),canbe predicated ofany subject that isnotin anorganized andreally
living condition, however reputedly and relatively dead its state, nor can
the word body (nS/ta) he referred to a system entirely decomposed; or the
word ‘resurrection,’ be made to signify reconstruction; or ' resurrection
fromthe dead,’ be twisted into meaning the reanimated integuments from
thesuperficial soil, or the corpse be defined to be a soal, body, and a living
soul; or the body dead and corrupt be said to be corruptible and mortal.
Inno partof bis argument does St. Paul give the slightest intimation that
he is pleading for the re-caOectisn and re-organization of the anywhere
remaining particles, or for the future development of any supposed stami­
na of the exterior frame, but peremptorily excluding flesh and blood from
catering, under any modification whatever, into the kingdom of God, he
again and again makes it clear that he was demonstrating the resurrec­
tion of the dead (& wcpoi), their very selves, and not their lnid-aside
vastments, but their personal hypostasis, was the theme of his discourse,
and the subject of his anticipations.”—Stephenson's Chrietology, p.
164-166.
Digitized by Googk
188 T H S DOCTKINB OF T H S HESUBBECTION.
will lose his life for ray sake shall find it.” The saved and
the lost life in this antithesis is not the same, the one being
natural, the other spiritual and eternal. This, at any rate,
is the prominent idea ; however, in a secondary sense, the
words in both members may hold good of the natural life.*
* We here again append die remark of Mr. Locke on ▼
. 53, of this
chapter. “ T i fBaprtr, corruptible, and r* OsvrSr, mortal, hare not here
oUpa, body, for their nominative, as some imagine, bat are pat in the nea­
ter gender absolute, and stand to represent seepii, dead, as appears by the
immediately preceding verse, and also v. 42, ivra sal ivaeraait r<
S
»vcepwv ;
m iptrat in tpdopa, so is the resurrection o f the dead; Ht is sown in
corruption, i. e. mortal corruptible men are sown, being corruptible and
weak. Nor can it be thought strange, or strained« that I interpret fis p ris
and Brtirir as adjectives of the neuter gender to signifypersons,whenin this
very discourse the apostle uses two adjectives in the neater gender to sig­
nify the persons of Adam and Christ, in such a way as it is impossible to
understand them otherwise. The words, no farther ofT than v. 46, are
these t dX
X
4 ov epurov r8 mevpaneav' uX
X
4rd , Im ra ri irwnpariKSv,
but that is not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; after­
w ards that which is spiritual. The like way ofspeaking we have Mat.
1. 20, and Luke 1. 35, in both which the person of oar Saviour is ex­
pressed byadjectives ofthe neuter gender. To any of all which places 1do
not think any will add the substantive tnSpa, body, to make out the sense.
That, then, which is here meant being this, that this mortal man shall
put on immortality, and this corruptible man incorruptibility, any one will
easily find another nominative case to snipe™ , is sown, and not sups,
body, when he considers the sense of the place, wherein the apostle’s pur­
poseis to speak of ttsp6i, mortal men, being dead, and raised again to life,
and made immortal.’*
We may properly adduce in this connexion the remarks of Mr. Locke
in another passage of the same letter (p. 195): “ Your Lordship goes on
with your proofe, and says, ‘But St. Paul still supposes it must be that
material substance to which the soul was before united; for he says, It
is sown in corruption,it israised in incorroption, <tc. Can such a material
substance which was never united to the body, be said to be sown in cor­
ruption, and weakness, and dishonor ? Either, therefore, he must speak
of the same body, or his meaning cannot be comprehended.’ I answer,
can such a material substance, which w as never laid in the grave, be said
to be sown, &c. 1 For your Lordship says, *Yoa do aot say the same
Digitized by Google
rax i c i t m i R A L iifraiN T. 1 8 9
V. 50-53.
OB.
Tovto Si fpyfu, àSsXcpoi, Sri
Mçf xa! cufia ftaatÎMar &eoi
itb¡(forofit¡<fai ov Svtattcu, ov­
il if (f&oçà t)¡t ¿Ufd-aqoíft»
x li¡Qorofití.
liov, fivair¡Qiov VfÜV Xf/tO *
nanti ftéf ov xoifir¡&r¡<ráfiE&a,
none; Si ¿XXayrj<íófu9a '
it átóftcp, i t $utr¡ oy&aX-
fuv, it rjj aajrárp oáXmyyf
[eaXrtíaei y¿Q, xa! oí tetcçol
tytqÚr¡aovtai ây&ugroi, xa!
Sfw
îff àXlaytjGÔftî&a-)
Seï yog to qi&açrot tovto
itSvaaa&ou àcp&açtxictp, xa!
to &ti¡tot tovto itSvotto&cu
àôoctaatar.
EMO. TBBB.
Now this I say, brethren,
that flesh and blood cannot in­
herit the kingdom of Qod;
neither doth corruption inherit
incorruption.
Behold, I show you a mys­
tery: We shall not all sleep,
but we shall all be changed,
In a moment, in the twink-
1ing oían eye, at the last trump ;
for the trumpet shall sound, and
the dead shall be raised incor­
ruptible, and we shall be
changed.
For this corruptible must put
on incorruption, and this mor­
tal must put on immortality.
The apostle’s declaration that “ flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of God,” would naturally give rise to
inquiry respecting the absolute universality of the change
which he had thus far been describing. As it was a fair
inference from the general tenor of the apostolic teaching,
that our Lord’s second advent would occur during the ac­
tual career of human existence on the earth, the Corinthian
converts could not well repress the query, how it would fare
with those who might be sojourning in the flesh at the time
when that coming should occur. Would they also die like
those who had gone before them ? How would they be
individual particles, which were united at the point of death, shall be
raised at the last day ;’ and no other particles are laid in the grave but
such as are united at the point of death. Either therefore your Lordship
must speak of another body different from that which"was «own, which
shall be raised, or else ‘ your meaning,’ I think, ‘ cannot be compre­
hended.’ ’’
yGoogk
1 9 0 T H Z D O CTZBIB O * T H Z ZZBOTBZCTION.
divested of flesh and blood, sad thus made capable of unit­
ing with the risen saints in a conjoint inheritance of the
heavenly kingdom 1 This problem the writer now proceeds
to solve. As he had jnst intimated the impossibility of en­
tering on the future life with the present body, he here ad­
vances to the explanation of a mystery, that is, the disclosure
of a secret, the purport of which was, that those who should
be alive at that day would undergo a change that should fit
them, as well as the dead, for entering into the kingdom of
God. “ We shall not all sleep (i. e., die), but we shall -all
be changed (i. e., all we who are then living).” This be
calls the ‘ showing of a mystery;’ by which is meant simply,
according to Scriptural usage, the explication of an Old
Testament type, symbol, or emblem. The allusion is
probably to the translation of Enoch and Elijah, which
the apostle would represent as a mystical foreshadow­
ing of the fact of a similar change to be wrought on a
large scale on the saints who should still be living at the
epoch of the Saviour’s final manifestation, the certainty of
which is again declared by the remark, that it was neces­
sary that the corruptible should put on incorruption, and
the mortal, immortality. The language thus viewed is
brought into direct parallelism with what the same apcdfle
declares, 1 Thes. 4. 17: “ Then we which are alive and
remain, shall be caught up together with them in the clouds,
to meet the Lord in the air : and so shall we ever' be With
the L o r d a passage of which we shall give an extended
exposition in its proper place. • '
But we here encounter a great difficulty in view of out
previous position, that the true resurrection takes place at
the death of every individual believer, when he emerges
from a material into a spiritual body. Is it not clearly im­
plied, not to say expressly asserted, in this passage, that the
resurrection of all the righteous is simultaneous, and that
this event is still future, to occur at the epoch of the second
Digitized by Google
t u i c u r n n u t a b o u m e n t 1 » 1
advent, and in conjunction with the translation of the bring
saints1
We can of course have no object in denying or disguising
the fact, that these words bare very much the air of direct­
lycontravening the general tenor of our interpretation of
the preoeding portions of this chapter. Still, if our previ­
ous train of reasoning be sound—if our conclusions be
fairly sustained by the evidence adduced —it is certain that
these word* rig h tly understood cannot he in conflict with
them. Every part of the word of God must be in harmony
withevery other part, though apparent discrepancies may ex­
ist, to the dear conciliation of which we may not always be
competent. In the present case we are so stroagly persuaded
ofthe truth of out previous conclusions, founded both upon
the intrinsic nature of the subject itself, and upon the just
interpretation of language, that our confidence in them is
ao wise shaken by the literal reading of a pasaage, which
Hem at first view to enforce entirely another theory. It re»
mains,.therefore, to inquire in what manner this declaration
ofthe apostle, s to be made consistent with what we con­
ceive to be the general teaching of the New Testament on
the subject of the resurrection, viz., that it is the vast« with
thefuture life o f the righteous.
The position is very easily made out, that the general
expectation of the Jews looked forward to a period of con*
summation or restitution, frequently called ‘ the last day
'the world to coroe’—‘ the reign of the Messiah,’—when a
sew order of things was to be ushered in, among which
wss to be the event, denominated the resurrection o f
tie dead. Connected with this was the deliverance of the
Jewish nation from the yoke of their enemies—their ad­
vancement to acknowledged pre-eminence over all other peo­
ple—the restoration of the Shekinab—the rebuilding of
Jerusalemand its temple in renovated splendor—the en­
dowment of the earth with a new and unexampled fertility—
the cessation of wars and bloodshed—and an indefinite peri­
Digitized by Google
1 9 3 THE DOCTRINE OF TBE EESCREECTION.
od of peace, prosperity, and happiness, fromthe rising to
the going down of thesun. This predicted consummation
doesindeed formthe burden of amultitudeof theOld Testa­
ment prophecies, which the Jews, overlooking the previous
ordained humiliation of the Messiah, applied to hisfirst ad­
vent. We know that they belong to his second advent, and
that they constitute the leading features of that economy
which wns to be ushered in at the time when Christ under
the Gospel should take possession of his spiritual and
eternal kingdom. Now it is unquestionable that onr
Lord, in predicting his second coming, Mat. 24 and 25,
does in reality announce, in accordance with Dan. 7. 15.28,
the same great era, though it is essentially interwoven with
the tissue of his predictions respecting the destruction of
Jerusalem, and that appearing which was to take place
during the lifetime of some of the men of that generation.
We learn from the event, that that prophecy included a vast
extent of time, although it was so framed that its chronolog­
ical relations could not be easily discovered; and consequently
we see no reason to doubt that, as they were not instructed
to the contrary, the apostles themselves generally anticipa­
ted the grand consummation as destined speedily to occur,
and probably even within the limits of their own natural
lives. And let it here be remarked, that while the predic­
tions of our Lord himself on this subject were in fact but
the application of numerous Old Testament prophecies to
their true-meant design, these predictions, thus drawn from
the earlier prophets, were the foundation of all the know­
ledge which the apostles possessed respecting the Lord's
second coming. In other words, their own announcements
on the subject were not strictly original, or uttered de novo,
but were the echo of the Saviour’s oracles, and of those of
the Old Testament on which they were founded. Thus the
remarkable passage 1 Thes. 4. 15-17, is but a paraphraseof
Christ’s prediction, Mat. 24. 29-34, whence he introduces
it by stating, “ Thia we gay unto you by the word o f the
Digitized by Google
THK m im a u A lS ra iN T , 1 9 3
Lard." Consequently, if tbe true meaning of the symbolic
language in which our Lord delivered his predictions was
not made known to the apostles, of which their writings af­
ford no evidence, they would naturally interpret them accord­
ing to the letter, and suppose a speedy fulfilment. It is also
lo be borne in mind, that the epistles were written in the
interval between the crucifixion and the destruction of Je­
rusalem, with which, from the tenor of the Snviour's predic­
tions, they were led to suppose that the ‘ end of the world*
(mow, age, dispensation, order o f things) was synchronical.
What then more natural, nay, unless expressly informed
to the contrary, what more ¡Heritable, than that they should
have cherished the expectation, that they should themselves
behold the Lord appear in the clouds of heaven, and be
themselves caught up to meet him in the air I
We may properly adduce in this connexion, from two
very opposite sources, a concurrent testimony bearing upon
the view of the subject we have now proposed. The first
is an extract from Gibbon (Dec. and Fall o f the Rom.
Emp., p. 185, Lond. ed. 1830): “ In the primitive church
the influence of truth wa9 very powerfully strengthened by an
opinion which, however it may deserve respect for its use­
fulness and antiquity, has not been found agreeable to ex­
perience. It was universally believed, that the end of the
world, and the Kingdom of Heaven were at hand. The
near approach of this wonderful event had been predicted
by the apostles; the tradition of it was preserved by their
earliest disciples, and those who understood in their literal
sense the discourses of Christ himself, were obliged to ex­
pect the second and glorious corning of the Son of man in
the clouds, before that generation was totally extinguished,
which had beheld his humble condition upon earth, and
which might still be witness of the calamities of the Jews
under Vespasian or Hadrian. The revolution of seventeen
centuries has instructed u9 not to press too closely the mys­
terious language of prophecy and revelation; but as long as
Digitized by Google
for wise purposes, this error was permitted to sabsist in the
church, it was productive of the most salutary effects on the
faith and practice of Christians, who lived in the awful ex­
pectation of that moment when the globe itself, and all the
various race of mankind, should tremble at the appearance
of the divine Judge.”
The other is a passage from Dr. Watts, in h » “ Essay
towards the Proof of a Separate State of Soak,” prefixed to
his “ World to Come.”
“ As the patriarchs and the Jews of old, after the Mes­
siah was promised, were constantly expecting his first com­
ing almost in every generation, till he did appear, and ma­
ny inodes of prophetical expression in Scripture, which
speak of things long to come as though they were present,
or just at hand, gave them some occasion for this expecta­
tion ; so the Christians o f the,first age did generally expect
the steond coming of Christ tojudgment, and the resnrret-
tion o f the dead, in that very age wherein it wdsforetold. ■
St. Paul gives us a hint of it in 2 Thes. ii. 1, 2. They sup­
posed the day of the Lord was just appearing. And many
expressions of Christ concerning his' return, or coming
again after his departure, seem to represent his absence as
a thing of no long continuance. It is true these words of
his may partly refer to his coming to destroy Jerusalem,
and the ooming in of his kingdom among tke gentiles; or
his coming by his messenger of death; yet they generally,
in their supreme or final sense, point to his coming to raise
the dead, and judge the world. And from the words of
Christ, also, concerning John, ‘If I will that he tarry till I
come’ (John xxi. 22), it is probable that tie apostles than
selves atfirst, as well as other Christiana, might derive this
apprehension of his speedy coming.
“ It is certain (Dr. W. proceeds) that when Christ speaks
of his coming in general, and promiscnons, and parabolical
terms, whether with regard to the destruction of Jerusalem
or the judgment of the world, he saith, *Vejily I say unto
194 THE HOCTEUiE OF THE **SCR **CTIO N .
Digitized by Google
m c
c
K
i
r
T
U
K
A
L
,uam
m
. 1 9 6
jou, this generation shall not pass till all these things be ful­
filled' ( Matt. xxiv. 34). And the Apostles frequently told the
world, the coming of the Lord was near : ‘ The Lord is at
hand' (Phil. iv. S ): 1 Exhorting one another—so much the
more, as you see the day approaching’ (Heb. x. 25): and
that this is the day of the coming of Christ, verse 37 assures
us: ‘For yet a little while, he that shall come will come,
and will not tarry.’ •Now it is high time to awake out of
sleep: the night is far spent; the day is at hand’ (Rom.
tiii. 12 ). 'T o him who is ready to judge the quick and
the dead' ( l Pet. iv. 5). ‘ The aid o f all things is at hand ’
(ver. 7). ‘ T he coming of the Lord drateeth n ig h : Behold
the judge standeth at the door ’ (Janies v. 8 , 9). ‘ Seal not
up the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand’ (Rev.
xxii. 10): *And behold, I come quickli/, and my reward is
with me, to give to every man as his work shall be ’ (ver.
12). And the sacred volume is closed with this assurance,
1Surely 1 come quickly and the echo and expectation of
the Apostle, or the church, *Amen ! even so, come, Lord
Jesus.'
“ It is granted (our author goes on) that in prophetical
expressions, such as all these are, some obscurity is allowed :
and it may be doubtful, perhaps, whether some of them may
refer to Christ’s coming by the destruction of Jerusalem,
or his coming to call particular persons away by his mes­
senger of death, or his appearance at the last judgment. It
is granted, also, that it belongs to prophetical .language to
set things far distant, as it were before our eyes, and make
them seem present, or very near at hand. But still these
expressions had plainly such an influence on the primitive
Christians, as that they imagined the day o f resurrection and
judgment was very near.”
But to all this we are aware it may be objected, that it
impugns the inspiration and infallibility of the sacred wri­
ters. If they labored under a mistake on this point, how
i can they be said to have been prompted by the unerring
Digitized by Googk
196 TH * DOCTKIMB O f T B S HISO RU C TIO N .
guidance of the Holy Spirit ? And if they have mistaken
the mind of the Spirit in regard to the doctrine of the
second advent, why may they not have mistaken it on other
'doctrines, and thus the church be left without an infallible
standard of truth 1
To the objection thus urged we reply, in the first place,
that it does not present a fair issue. The question is not
whether the Apostles have erroneously represented any doc*
trine which they were inspired to deliver, but howfa r their
inspiration extended. The sacred writers were made the sub­
jects, or rather the organs, ofspecial revelations,—revelations
lying entirely without the compass of their own unassisted
faculties. These revelations they must be admitted to have
correctly and infallibly reported. In the nature of the case
it could not be otherwise. The revelations were not their
own—were not the product of their own intelligence, nor
required, in fact, their own cognizance. They were the
instruments through which the Spirit of God spake, and we
know not bow to conceive the possibility of a mistake un­
less the Spirit himself were mistaken, which it is blasphemy
to suppose. So far then as the revelations were concerned,
the apostles must of course be considered as having spoken
with absolute inerrancy. But these revelations, as made
to the sacred writers, did not include every thing; they did
not even include every thing connected with them, as for in­
stance the attribute of time. There are cases, indeed, where
the time of certain events forms the special subject-matter
of the revelation and the record; but in numerous instances
the event was revealed without any intimation of the time.
So also of the precise manner of the accomplishment. This
did not always enter into the materiel of the announcements
which they were prompted to utter. Accordingly, we learn
that the prophets “ inquired and searched diligently what or
tokat manner e f time, the spirit which was in them did sig­
nify when it testified beforehand of the sufferings of Christ,
and the glory that should fellow.” Now it is easy to under-
Digitized by Google
TOT «CRirrUKAL ASOVKINT. 197
stand that they may have infallibly reported all that was ac­
tually revealed to them or through them, and yet they may
not have been infallible in the construction which they may
have p o t upon the concomitant circumstances of the matters
that they were to make known. Otherwise, what occasion
wan1there for the ‘ diligent search’ which their spirits were
prompted'»» accomplish 1 Acting as the organs of certain
dfnaMt<«oammrications, it Would be natural that they should
M
w
wwao thetf thoughts upon the themes that thus expressed
thteflealvUe through them. But the judgments which they
ps>*Ltwally formed on these disclosures, being distinct from
the truth s themselves, may not have been free from error,
aiMply d b rth e Season, that they did not come really within
the*scope o f their inspiration. The mind of the Spirit is
CMMlfisgv rad their personal view of its meaning is an­
other?*smd it is very conceivable that we, from having more
aMp)e^date,-'teny be better able to judge of this meaning
timi tlfey were. Who can doubt that John the Baptist was
better able ta onderstand Isaiah’s or David’s language re-
spertiftg the first coming of Christ than were Isaiah or
DaVH^tbmasélvea T We contend therefore, that it does not
truly detract from Paul’s claims to inspiration that he should
nei1 Herd Understood what was not revealed, or that he
should *bave -so Stated what teas revealed as to evince that
ltehud tei«onte respects mistaken its true purport—that he
should have pot upon it a sense which we now know to be
errmeeias. 'This he may have done, and still leave the
maiù UMtoUnCement in its full integrity.
Snthtrview we are happy to be confirmed by the autho­
rity Of Mr. Barnes, in his remarks on the very passage we
are1
*** considering. “ I do not know that the proper doc­
trine of inspiration suffers, if we admit that the apostles were
ignorant of the exact time when the world would close ; or
even that in regard to the precise period when that would
take piece, they might be in error. The following consid­
erations may be suggested on this subject, showing that the
Digitized by Googk
1 9 8 THE DOCTMN* OF THE »WOUBHOTION.
claim to inspiration did not extend to the knowledge of this
fact. (1.) They were not omniscient; and there is no more
absurdity in supposing that they were ignorant on this sub­
ject than in regard to any other. Inspiration extended to
the order of future events, and not to the times. There is in
the Scriptures no statement of the ¿me when the world would
close. (2 .) Fttture events were made to pass before the mind
of the prophets, as in a landscape. The order of the images
may be distinctly marked, but the times may not be desig­
nated. And even events which may occur in fact at distant
periods, may in vision appear to be near each other; as in a
landscape, objects which are in fact separated by distant in­
tervals, like the ridges of a mountain, may appear to lie close
to each other. (3.) The Saviour expressly said, that it was not
designed that they should know when future events would
occur. Thus, after his ascension, in answer to an inquiry
whether he then would restore the kingdom to Israel, he said
(Acts i. 7), ‘It is not fo r ym to know the times or the sea­
sons which the Father has put in his own power.’ The
Saviour said that even he himself, as man, was ignorant in
regard to the exact time in which future events would occur.
' But of that day and that hour, knoweth no man, no, not
the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Fa­
ther.’ Mark viii. 32. (4.) The apostles were in fa ct igno­
rant and mistaken in regard to, at least, the time of the occur­
rence of one future event, the death of John. xxi. 23. There
is, therefore, no departure from the proper doctrine of inspi­
ration, in supposing that the apostles were not inspired on
these subjects, and that they might be ignoraut like others.
The proper order of events they state truly and exactly; the
exact time, God did not, for wise reasons, intend to make
known.”
We remark, in the second place, that the present case
is peculiar. Our Lord’s second coming and its associated
events are described in highly symbolic and prophetic terms,
Digitized by Google
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 1 9 9
takes mostly (com the language of the Old Testament pro­
phets, and so framed as to be intrinsically obscure and ca­
pable of being erroneously apprehended. Nor does it ap­
pear that Christ himself distinctly laid open to his disciples
the nature of that event. Consequently, as the predictions
respecting the first coining were so worded as to be liable to
misunderstanding before he came, even by the very prophets
themselves who recorded them, so the idea seems entirely
reasonable, that the predictions respecting his second com­
ing may not have been perfectly understood in all respects
even by the apostles and the primitive Christians. And
whydoes their ignorance on this single point—the lime and
manner of the second advent—any more invalidate their in­
spiration than a like ignorance in the Old Testament
writers invalidates theirs ? The apostle in the present in­
stance discloses the grand fundamental fact, that at the time
towhich the Holy Spirit refers there should be a translation
of the living saints. This he has stated infallibly, because
he spake as he was moved by the Holy Ghost, and how
could he make any other than an infallible suggestion !
But we have no evidence that the precise time of this event
was any where made known, and therefore it was to be ex­
pected that Paul should assign it to that epoch which he
snpposed to be intended when our Saviour said, that “ this
generation shall not pass away till all these things shall be
fulfilled.’' Is it affirmed that this was misleading bis
readers 1 Then we would ask whether our Lord is not
equally to be charged, in the above words, with misleading
his readers? We well know by what criticisms upon the
word ‘ generation,' it is attempted to rebut the force of the
natural construction, and make it harmonize with an ac­
complishment that should first ensue hundreds or thousands
of years after the lifetime of the disciples. But after all
it is impossible to explain away the native and genuine im­
port of the phrase. It is only by the most downright violence
that we can elicit from the words any thing but the dcclara-
Digitized by Googk
300 TH> DOCTRINE OF THE HESUBRRCTIOM.
tion that the event predicted should occur, or rather should
begin to occur, in the term of the natural lives of the then
existing generation of men, and consequently that the event,
whatever it were, did thus occur within the period specified;
that is, that there was, in some sense, a glorious coming of
Christ at the destruction of Jerusalem, and the abrogation
of the Jewish state. But it does not follow from this that
the purport of the entire series of prophecies contained in
the 24th and 25th of Matthew was exhausted in that event;
for he says in the same connexion, in the parallel prediction
of Luke, that Jerusalem shall be trodden under foot of the
Gentiles till the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled ; and this
carries us over a long tract of centuries before we reach
the period of the fnll accomplishment.
The preceding remarks may, perhaps, be considered as
having levelled an avenue of approach to the true view of
the apostle’s language. He has faithfully and unerringly
announced that part of the divine counsels which relates to
the transformation of the living saints at the period referred
to, whatever that period may be. He has informed us that
they shall undergo a change equivalent to that which ac-.
cruesto the risen, i. e. the re-living, dead. He undoubtedly
supposed that this change was to occur simultaneously with
that promised advent of the Saviour that was to be ushered
in during the lifetime of that generation—a supposition
built upon the Utter of numerous predictions, but which the
event has shown to be, in this respect, erroneous. T he fact
that forms the burden of the announcement has not yet
taken place, but is of stiH future occurrence. It is to come
to pass at the period so frequently alluded to in the prophets,
as to be distinguished by something that is here termed
the ‘ sounding of the last trumpet;’ and as this is doubtless
identical with the last in the series of the seven Apocalyp­
tical trumpets, Rev. 11.17, which announces the downfall of
earthly dominion, and the kingdoms of this world becoming
the kingdoms of our Lord and his Christ, it is clear that it
yGoogk
cannot refer to what ia technically termed the ‘end of the
world,' so far as that phrase ia understood to imply the phy­
sical destruction of the globe. For the sounding of the
terenth trumpet ia not a signal of the close, but rather of the
commencement of that last grand phasis of the kingdom of
Christ, which is the theme of the most enrapturing strains of
all the prophets. During the continuance of this period,
over the whole of which the trumpet may be considered as
sounding, this process of translation and resurrection will be
illustriously going on. To each individual subject of the
sublime transformation, it will be effected in a moment, in the
twinkling of an eye, though ages may intervene before the
number of the translated is complete. Wc do not perceive
that the words necessarily imply a simultaneous translation,
nor for the same reason do the words that follow strike us
as necessarily enforcing the idea of as imultaneous resurrec­
tion. This certainly cannot be maintained without previ­
ously fixing the period in question down to a mere compar­
ative yunctum temporiSf and we hesitate not to affirm that it
is impossible to do this but upon principles that will inevi­
tably convert the whole department of Scriptural Eschatology
into a chaotic mass of contradictions. We are, for our­
selves, perfectly satisfied that in the scheme of revelation
the curtain drops upon the human race in the mid-career of
its evolving destiny. The predictions of Daniel land us in
the everlasting kingdom of the saiuts, established upon the
whole earth, and under the whole heavens. The disclosures
of the Apocalypse conduct us into the bosom of the New
Jerusalem state, equally established upon the earth, and
there leave us. Nothing in our view is clearer than that
the events commonly assigned to what is termed, by one of
the grossest philological errors, " the end of the world,” i. e.
as implying the physical conflagration of the globe, do, in
fact, occur at the commencement, and not at the close of
the grand Sabbatism of the world— for it lias no close : i. e.,
uone revealed. God, the Omniscient, alone knows through
TH * K B irT U B A L AKQVMCNT. 2 0 J
Digitized by Google
20« THE DOCTRINE Of THE RESURRECTION.
what untold oentnries of time this jubilee of the earth shall
stretch. That particular passages may here and there be
cited, which seem, according to the strictness of the letter,
to sound a signal of physical catastrophe and doom to the
terraqueous globe, is doubtless true. But the general drift of
prophecy is plainly the reverse; and though we may be un­
able at present to Bolve satisfactorily all the proUama eon-
nected with the subject, yet we have no doubt that they are
actually soluble, and that the time will at length come
when they shall excruciate criticism no longer.
In the mean time let no man suppose he can reject the
view now suggested, and fell back upon one that is free
from equal or greater difficulties. Adopt what theory we
may, we shall find ourselves encompassed with straits of
exegesis which we can only fail to perceive by voluntarily
closing our eyes to their existence. The single declara­
tion of the Apocalypse, “ The leaves of the tree shall be for
the healing of the nations (Gentiles),” leaves all the common
theories of the future at fault, because they afford no solu­
tion of the problem, ‘ What Gentile nations remain to be
healed in heaven V
In relation to the central point of the present discussion,
we abide, with unshaken confidence, by a conclusion te
whioh we deem ourselves brought through- a process of the
strictest and fairest logical and philological reasoning., If
we overrate not the force of our arguments, we have shows
that-the objections to the theory of the resurrect** of'tit
body are insuperable. If they are *o regarded by the re­
flecting mind, it roust of necessity adopt some other .con­
struction of the passages of holy writ which stent to counte­
nance it. That whioh is false to true Philosophy cannot be
true to true Faith.
It thus then appears that the scope of this celebrated
chapter, when submitted to a fair and thoroughgoing ex»
gesis, fails to yield any satisfactory evidence of the doctrine
of the resurrection o f the body. But if the doctrine be
Digitized by Google
T M M U nPT tttA L ABCUHBWT.
not (bund here, where else in the New Testament is it to be
found 1 But we abaU nevertheless continue our inquest.
M at. V. 29, 30. '
M 3
OB.
Ei t i l 6 otp& aX fw s aov 6 tit-
|io$ <sHUvtiuli£u oe, e&Xe mb­
i t » xcu fim X e a n b a m *avftqit-
q u y a q aot, Iv a anoX iyrai tv
tibv [teXtov aov, xcu .p\) b lo v
to aoo/td aov tig yeev-
vav.
Kcu 8i f) titl-ia aov yt'iQaxav-
titthX«4 oe, Ixxorp&v aviTjv s«t
fake ¿mb aov • avfttptqet ydq
004, Ima etmXtytai tv i u v ftt-
Xeov aov, xou fty oXo* ib awftu
aov p.rj&v els yeevvav. ^
KHO. VSHS.
And if thy right eye offend
thee, pluck it out, and cast it
from thee: for it ¡b profitable
for thee that one of thy mem­
bers should perish, and not
that thy whole body should be
cast into hell.
And if thy right hand offend
thee, cut it off; and east it from
thee: for it is profitable for thee
that one ofthy members should
C'sh, and not that thy whole
y should be cast into hell.
T he true bearing of this text upon the point at issue, as
Far as the letter is concerned, is obvious. If the body is to ‘
partake in the punishment of the soul m another life, the
inference Would seem to be irresistible, that it must be
raised for the purpose; and this is doubtless the sense which
is usually put upon these words of Christ. But we cannot
acquiesce in this construction, without a previous exact in­
quiry into the import of the terms employed. The original
word translated ‘ hell’ is yhwa, Gehenna, derived^from the
Heb. Biin if'i Ge-Hinnom, or valley o f Himom, the well-
known name of a place in the near vicinity of Jerusalem
where dead carcases and all manner of filth were thrown,
the putrefaction of which generated worms, and made it
necessary to keep fires burning to prevent the tainting of
the air, and the spread of pestilence. “ The extreme loath­
someness of the place, the filth and putrefaction, the cor­
ruption of the atmosphere, and the lurid fires blazing by
day and by night, made it one of the most appalling and
terrific objects with which a Jew was accquainted. It was
Digitized by Googk
2 0 4 TH * BOCTMM* OF T « * BM OBM CTION.
called “ the Gehenna of fire,” and was the image which our
Saviour often employed to denote the futnre punishment
of the wicked.” (Barnes on Matt. 5. 22.) So Mr. Camp­
bell likewise says “ it came gradually to be used as an em­
blem of hell, or place of torment for the wicked in a future
state.” (Dissert. vol. i. p. 180.) Consequently if the term
denotes an image— an emblem—of hell, or place of torment,
it does not denote the place itself, and of that we must form
our ideas from other sources. It is obvious then that our
Lord’s language in this passage is figurative, and does not
of itself necessarily imply that the punishment of the wick­
ed in another life will he effected by the action of material
fire upon material bodies. Ill accommodation to the sensu­
ous ideas of the Jews, he depicts a sensuous imagery, and
the whole passage is evidently to be interpreted on this
principle. If one part of it is to be taken in the strictness
of the letter, every other is also, and consequently it fol­
lows that if the body here literally means the body, the
• right eye means the right eye, and the right hand the right
hand, and then we come to the conclusion, that entrance
into heaven is facilitated by plucking out an eye and cut­
ting off a hand. But will this be held T Is so gross a
sense to be put upon our Saviour’s words ? If so, must we
not hold to the counterpart of the notion, viz., that many
enter heaven in their material bodies after having suffered
the loss of several of the members? For thus it is said iri
the parallel passage of Mark, ch. ix. 43-47, “ It is better
for thee to enter into life maimed,—halt,— and with one
eye, than having two hands,—feet,— and eyes, to be cast
into hell-fire.” What then does the passage, when viewed
in connexion with the general tenor of the Scriptures, na­
tively teach ? “ Evidently," says Mr. Noble (Appeal p. 61),
“ the offending eye and hand are mentioned to denote cer­
tain perverse propensities of the mind or spirit, from which
alone, all the organs of the body act j and as certain organs
of the body are thus put for certain disorderly functions of
Digitized by Google
T B K S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 0 5
the mind or spirit, which is the real man, to carry on the
figure, and to avoid the incongruity of a mixed metaphor,
the whole body is naturally, and according to the strict laws
of composition, put for the whole mind or spirit, and thus
for the whole man as he exists after death.” On a fair ex-
ammatioB, therefore, of the passage, the evidence which
wndd be drawn from it of the resurrection o f the body
mnpieteiy vanishes out of sight. The same is the case in
regard t e tl^e passage which follows.
. . Mat. X . 28.
, , , G R . O P LXX.
Kat ftij cpoßeüs&s cut'o twr
¿noxreirorrcoy t o adjpa, Tip
Ss xpvx'ri* Hij dvvafuvcor àno-
xttïvai ' qioß^&tjTS de yäXXov
top Svrdfuvor xcù xfJi'XP xaj
oä/tct ¿aoXéoai èv ytevvfi.
EN G . V E R S.
And fear not them which kill
the body, but are not able to
kill the soul: but rather fear
him which is able to destroy
both soul and body in hell.
T his is a passage of the same character with the pre­
ceding, and demanding to be interpreted on the same princi­
ple. Neither this, nor any other text, bearing upon the life
after death, can be explained in disregard of the results
which we have previously reached respecting the intrinsic
and essential nature of the spiritual body in contradistinc­
tion from the natural. If these results address themselves, -
upon their own evidence, with irresistible force to our con­
victions, it is impossible.that the mind, constituted as it is,
can receive a declaration in conflict with them. We ad­
mit, indeed; the possibility that our conclusions on this head
may not be true. We would then simply affirm, that i f they
are true, of which every one must judge for himself, they
will imperatively govern our construction of particular pas-'
sages which carry a contrary import in their letter. In the
present case, we do not hesitate to say, that our previous
reasonings and expositions have at least so much the sem­
blance of truth—they are so far from the character of
10
Digitized by Google
3 0 6 TUX DOCTiUNX Q f TUX KSXVMtUCTlON.
mere plausible sophisms and fallacies—
-that acandidjudgm ent
cannot disregard them in the estimate which it is led to form
of the true sense of the Saviour’s warning now under con­
sideration. The leading scope of the passage is, that there
was a destruction in this world which was not at all te be
feared in comparison with a destruction which was to be
feared iu the next world. But the destruction in both cases
was of course to be of such a nature as corresponded with
the conditions of being in each world. In this world it was
a material body which might be killed ; but as material
bodies do not pertain to the spiritual world, the destruction
there to be feared was such as might befall the bodies there
possessed. But these were spiritual bodies, as we learn from
sound sources of information, though not expressly asserted,
as it was not necessary it should be, in the present connex­
ion. Thus understood, the words present no difficulty,
except to one who would educe from them a proof of the
resurrection of the body.
Mat. XXII. 31, 32,
OR. ENG. VERS.
I h ç î i S i T Tjt a to u s ta a e m g
Tfi>* VtXQ W * o v h à v é y p w T e TO
Qtl&iv vfuv àn'o to o &eov i t -
yovroÿ*
’Eym elfii 6 &ebg çaàft
xai ô &ebf 3la aàx xai o &sbf
3I a x t o f i • o v x S a n * ô frsoff & s o s
fsnpobv, ¿XXà ¡¡cavTtor.
But, as touching the resur­
rection of the dead, have ye
notread that which was spo-
en unto you byGod, saying,
I am the God of Abraham,
and the God of Isaac, and the
God of Jacob. God is not the
God of the dead, but of the
living.
We have already given in a previous extract from Dr.
Dwight (p. 148), to which we beg the reader’s renewed
reference, an exposition of this passage so clear and self-
evidencing, that'we might perhaps properly spare ourselves
any farther attempts at its elucidation. But a few remarks
may be added. And we would especially desire attention
to the factt that the true question in debate is. the resvrrtc-
yGoogk
m K H P IO U L AS0VMBMT. 8 0 7
tim o fth g dead—“ but as touching the resurrection o f the
dead, have yc not read,” &.c., (Luke, “ But that the dead
art raised, Moses showeth,” &c.) This the Sadducees
denied, arid this the Saviour intended to affirm. Now it is
obvious that if the term ‘ resurrection,’ in its correct usage
in the Gospels and the New Testament generally, denotes
the resurrection o f the body, we cannot deem ourselves at
liberty to depart from that sense in the present instance.
Not the slightest evidence appears that our Lord intended
to use the term in any other than its common and well-
known acceptation. If its ordinary use implies the resur­
rection of the body, it doubtless implies it here. But if
that be the true sense, it is equally obvious that our Lord’s
argument is not an explicit,pointed, and direct refutation of
the Saddncees’ error; for how does the fact that the spirits
of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are now living, prove the res­
urrection of their bodies1 In fact, this concession is made
by multitudes of commentators who adopt tho common view
of the meaning of the word utuoroaii, resurrtetion. Thus
the learned Dr. Hody (Kesur. o f Same Body Asserted) re­
marks : 4‘ The most that this argument proves is the immor­
tality o f the soul—that the souls of Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob did not die with their bodies, as the Sadducees be­
lieved.” So Mr. Barnes (in loc.), “ It more distinctly re­
fers to the separate existence of the soul, and to a future
state of rewards and punishments, than to the resurrection of
the body,” Writers of this class consider the passage as
simply teaching by inference the resurrection of the body;
i. e. if the spirits of-the patriarchs are alive now, their bodies
will be hereafter. But we not only dissent from this inter­
pretation; we remonstrate against it. We contend that it
is n violent wresting of a word from its plain, natural, ob­
vious sense, in order to make it subserve the purposes of a
different and preconceived theory. If there is a palpable,
we hud almost said an unmistakable, averment in the com­
pass of holy writ, it is, that the true doctrine of the resur­
Digitized by Goodie
206 THK DOCTEINK OF THE EM U «SECTION.
rection is proved from the fact, that Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob, were living when Christ spake these words, and con­
sequently must have been raised, and must be living in resur­
rection-bodies. Otherwise, as Dr. Dwight remarks, “ the
declaration concerning them is no proof of the resurrec­
tion." What kind of resurrection is that in which nothing
is raised ? But their bodies certainly had not been raised,
and can the sun in the heavens be more obvious to the
senses than the conclusion to the mind, that the ‘ resur­
rection of the dead,’ as here affirmed by the Saviour, has no
reference whatever to the resuscitation o f dead bodies ? And
are we not justified in maintaining, that the only resurrec­
tion of the dead ever to be experienced by man, is that of
which these patriarchs have long since been the subjects ?
Is there more than one kind of resurrection ? Does not our
Lord’s language establish this as the genuine and legitimate
sense of the term ? Is it not exactly tantamount to future
state ? By what authority then is the term appropriated,
contrary to this high sanctioned usage, to express entirely
another idea? The effect of this argument, we are told,
was completely to quash the skeptical cavils of the Saddu-
cees, and the Pharisees exulted to see them “ put to silence.’’
The ‘ astonishment,’ moreover, of the bystanders at the
wisdom, at the divine sagacity, displayed in the reply, shows
that they regarded it as a signal logical triumph : and on the
view now suggested we are conscious of sharing in their
emotions. We see that it perfectly met the point. Fortified
as they supposed by the silence of Moses on the subject,
they denied a future state. By a single appeal to that very
portion of the Scriptures which alone they regarded as au­
thoritative, our Lord at once demonstrated the falsity of
their position, and sealed their lips in ignominious silence.
Would this have been the effect had they understood him
as asserting the resurrection o f the body ? Would they not
at once have replied, “ This is a shifting of the question ;
this is not the point in debate. Our creed is, that the doc­
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T * 300
trine of a future state is not taught in the five books of the
Law. Why not then answer us directly on that head V
And who can gainsay the reasonableness of the demand?
On the ground of our interpretation the dialectics of the
Saviour are utterly unimpeachable. He says precisely what
the occasion required him to say, and nothing else. His
triumph therefore was complete.*
* C a m p b e l l ’s n o t e u p o n t h i s p a s s a g e , w h i c h w e h a d n o t r e a d p r i o r to
w r itin g t h e a b o v e , l e n d s s o s t r o n g a c o n f i r m a t i o n t o o u r v i e w o f t h e
S a v io u r 's a r g u m e n t , t h a t w e d o n o t s c r u p l e t o a d d u c e i t .
“ T h e w o r d dvi& raaiv, o r r a t h e r t h e p h r a s e dvatrraetv ru v vtupdiv, i s , i n ­
d e e d , th e c o m m o n p h r a s e b y w h i c h t h e resurrection, p r o p e r l y s o c a l l e d , i s
d e n o m in a te d i n t h e N e w T e s t a m e n t . Y e t t h i s i s n e i t h e r t h e o n l y , n o r
th e p r im itiv e i m p o r t o f t h e w o r d dnimaac; i t d e n o t e s s i m p l y b e i n g r a i s e d
fro m i n a c t i v i t y t o a c t i o n , f r o m o b s c u r i t y t o e m i n e n c e , o r a r e t u r n t o s u c h a
s ta te a f t e r a n i n t e r r u p t i o n . T h e v e r b dviernpi h a s t h e l i k e l a t i t u d e o f
s ig n if ic a tio n ; a n d b o t h w o r d s a r e u s e d i n t h i s e x t e n t b y t h e w r i t e r s o f t h e
N e w T e s t a m e n t , a s w e l l a s b y t h e S e v e n t y . W h e n a p p l i e d t o t h e d e a d ,
th e w o r d d e n o t e s , p r o p e r l y , n o m o r e t h a n a renewal o f l if e , i n w h a t e v e r
m a n n e r t h is m a y h a p p e n . N a y , t h a t t h e P h a r i s e e s t h e m s e l v e s d i d n o t
u n iv e r s a lly m e a n , b y t h i s t e r m , t h e r e u n i o n o f s o u l a n d b o d y , i s e v i d e n t ,
fro m t h e a c c o u n t w h i c h t h e J e w i s h h i s t o r i a n g i v e s o f t h e i r d o c t r i n e , a s
w e ll a s f r o m s o m e p a s s a g e s i n t h e G o s p e l . T o s a y , t h e r e f o r e , i n E n g l i s h , i n
g iv in g t h e t e n e t s o f t h e S a d d u c e e s , t h a t ‘ t h e y d e n y t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n o f
th e d e a d ,’ i s , a t l e a s t , t o g i v e a v e r y d e f e c t i v e a c c o u n t o f t h e i r s e n t i m e n t s
o n th is v e r y t o p i c . I t i s n o t o r i o u s , n o t o n l y f r o m J o s e p h u s , a n d o t h e r
J e w is h w r i t e r s , b u t f r o m w h a t i s s a i d , A c t s 2 3 . 8 , t h a t t h e y d e n i e d t h e
e x is te n c e o f a n g e l s , a n d a l l s e p a r a t e s p i r i t s . B u t n o t o n l y i s t h e v e r s i o n
h e re g i v e n ( ' n o f u t u r e lif e ’) a j u s t e r r e p r e s e n t a t i o n o f t h e S a d d u c e a n h y ­
p o th e s is , a t t h e s a m e t i m e t h a t i t i s c o n f o r m a b l e t o t h e s e n s e o f t h e w o r d ,
b u t i t i s t h e o n l y v e r s i o n t h a t m a k e s o u r L o r d ’s a r g u m e n t a p p e a r p e r t i ­
n e n t a n d l e v e l l e d a g a i n s t t h e d o c t r i n e h e w a n t e d t o c o n f u t e . I n t h e
c o m m o n v e r s i o n t h e y a r e s a i d t o d e n y t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n , t h a t i s , t h a t t h e s o u l
a n d b o d y s h a l l h e r e a f t e r b e r e u n i t e d ; a n d o u r L o r d b r i n g s a n a r g u m e n t f r o m
th e P e n t a t e u c h t o p r o v e — w h a t ? n o t t h a t t h e y s h a l l b e r e u n i t e d ( t o t h i s i t
h a s n o t e v e n t h e m o s t d i s t a n t r e l a t i o n ) , b u t t h a t t h e s o u l s u r v i v e s t h e b o d y ,
a n d s u b s is ts a f t e r t h e b o d y i s d i s s o l v e d . T h i s m a n y w o u l d h a v e a d m i t t e d
w h o d e n ie d t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n . Y e t s o e v i d e n t l y d i d i t s t r i k e a t t h e r o o t o f
th e s c h e m e o f t h e S a d d u c e e s , t h a t t h e y w e r e s i l e n c e d b y i t , a n d , t o t h e
Digitized by Google
310 T H E D O C T K IN E O F T H E E W H JR H E O T IO N .
Mat. XXVII. 60-53.
OK.
*O d i ’frjaovg nci.hr xqd^ag
tp
to
rqfteyaXq cupqxt t
onrevpa.
K a t idov, to xa ra m 'ra o fia
Toil vaov ¿o^io&ij eig dvo, duo
arco&er Hug xazco, x a i 17 yif
ioeia&ij, xai at nerqai ia%i-
a&rfaav •
xai raftvtjftcTa avemy&rjaav,
xa i no)U a acofiara zm v xexoi-
firjfitrcov iyicov ^ytQ&tf •
xai i%û.Qôvztg ex r û » fivif-
fteioov fiera t \ v êyeçaiv aiiiov
eîgTjX&o* elg Ttyr àyiav n o h r
xa ï èrecparioùrjoay nohkoïg.
ENG. V EB8.
Jesus, when he had cried
again with a loud voice, yielded
up the ghost.
Aod behold the vail of the
temple was rent in twain from
the top to the bottom: and the
earth did quake, and the rocks
rent;
And the graves were opeDed,
and many bodies of the saints
which slept, arose;
And came out of the graves
after his resurrection, and went
into the holy city, and appear­
ed unto many.
The doctrine of the resurrection, as a theory, might, at
first blush, seem likely to receive light from actual cases of
resurrection as a fact. But the recorded instances of this
nature, both in the Old and New Testaments, were for the
most part simply cases of the temporary réanimation of dead
bodies, which had not seen corruption, and the subjects of
which afterwards died, and their bodies turned to dust like
all others. They afford so little aid, therefore, in our determin­
ations on the general subject, that we have not deemed it
necessary to advert to them in the course of our discussions.
The present, however, is a case more in point, and is, on .
many accounts, altogether too important to be overlooked in
this connexion. The event is one of the most remarkable
in the whole New Testament history, and deserving of far
more attention than it has usually received. We shall hope
c o n v i c t i o n o f t h e h e a r e r s , c o n f u te d . N o w t h i s I w i l l t a k e u p o n m e t o s a y ,
c o u ld n o t h a v e h a p p e n e d , i f t h e f u n d a m e n t a l e r r o r o f t h e s c h e m e o f th e
B a d d u c e e s h a d b e e n b a r e l y t h e d e n i a l o f t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n o f t h e b o d y , a n d
n o t t h e d e n i a l o f t h e i m m o r t a l i t y o f t h e s o u l , o r r a t h e r o f i t s a c t u a l s u b ­
s i s t e n c e a f t e r d e a t h . “
yGoogk
T H B S C B IP T V K A L A H G U M B N T . f i l l
to present it in a somewhat new and interesting light—One,
however, which.will be seen to afford less conntenanee to the
prevalent view of the subject than upon a casual perusal it
might promise.
Before proceeding, however, to this, there are two re*
marks which we deem it important to make: (1.) All con­
jectures as to the particular persons raised on this occasion,
are vain and fruitless. The Scriptures are silent on tfté sub­
ject, and we can have nothing to say. (2.) All attempts to
determine what became of the bodies which were now raised,
must necessarily be equally abortive. They were in the
graves—they were raised : this is the extent of our inform­
ation respecting them.
In entering upon the consideration of the event itself,
we observe, first, that the language of the text is to be espe­
cially noted : noXXà moftata t&» xtxoipr/fuvon ayUn ijyéçfhi,
many bodies o f saints that slept arose. A question of no
small difficulty, as to the precise meaning of these words, is
suggested by the fact, that although these bodies are said to
have ‘ arisen ’ at the time of the crucifixion, yet they did not
come forth from the graves till three days afterwards ; and
even then it does not clearly appear that this ‘ coming forth’
is predicated of the bodies ; for the language is, xal dîeX&éyre{
dx tojv (irtipthae, perà irjv ïyeçon àvtov, lîoÿX&oy elç trtv àylocy
noXiv, xal évKpavioxhioav noXXoîç, and having come forth from
the graves after his resurrection, they entered into the holy
city and appeared unto many, where it is not to be over­
looked, that the participle ileX&ovr*i is in the masculine
gender, whereas the previous noun, crmpara, bodies, is in the
neuter. What then is precisely the effect denoted Jt»
y the
verb nysq&ri, arose Î Or, in other words, what was the con­
dition of these bodies, as distinguished from their previous
condition, during the three days prior to the issuing forth of
the persons (the o\ ¿¡cX&oyuf) from their tombs Î And was
it these bodies that then came forth and appeared to those
that saw them ? If so, why is the gender changed T Why
Digitized by Googk
3 1 2 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
do we not read i$t\frorta instead of iUldontg 1 These are
points of very difficult solution, though liable to be over­
looked by the mere reader of the English translation, which
does not, because it could not, present the nicer shades of the
original. The natural impression produced by the phrase
‘the dead bodies arose,’ would doubtless be, that they were re­
animated by the spirits which formerly inhabited them, and
thus flfcm dead carcasses, became living persons. But then it
strikes us as exceedingly strange, that a multitude of living,
conscious, intelligent persons should be abiding in their sep­
' ulchral habiliments, for the space of three days, in the tombs
in which they had been deposited at death. And then, if
they issued forth at the end of that time, and came into the
city, and were recognized by great numbers of the inhabit­
ants, as they must naturally have been, how happens it that
such a stupendous miracle was never appealed to by. the
apostles, either in their preaching, as recorded in the Acts,
-or in their Epistles, nor is ever any where alluded to but in
this single passage of Matthew ? Every one perceives the
incident to be shrouded in a veil of mystery which he knows
not how to pierce, nor can we assure the reader of being able
to satisfy his questionings by any solution which we may offer
—certainly not upon the common apprehensions of the sub­
ject. Nevertheless, we have some suggestions to propose.
And (1.) as to the import of the term (Tjytpihj) rendered
‘arose.’ We find among the definitions given of the word by
lexicographers, that of arising from a previous state of recum­
bency, whether that of sitting or lying; whether that of
sickness, of sleep, or of death. The oases in which it is
applied to rising from sleep appear to be the most pertinent
to the present connexion, as the subjects of the act are ex­
pressly said to have been ‘many of the saints that slept.’
Thus it is said, Mat. 9. 24, 25, ‘ He said unto them, Give
place; for the maid is not dead, but sletpeth. And they
laughed him to scorn. But when the people were put forth,
he went in and took her by the hand, and the maid arose
Digitized by Google
T H B « C K IP T U B A L A R G U M E N T . 2 1 3
ijyd{>\hi).’ It would seem then that we are to recognize
that kind of excitation which is put forth in raising a person
from a stale and posture of sleep to a state of wakefulness and
activity. Some exciting or moving effect, therefore, was un­
doubtedly produced, on the present occasion, upon the
bodies reposing in the sepulchres. Still, for the reasons above
suggested, it does not seem clear that they were, in the first
instance, actually brought to life as Lazarus was, at the re­
viving mandate of the Saviour uttered over his grave. Can
we suppose that they were thus resuscitated, and subse­
quently remained three days in the rocky repositories ten­
anted before by their lifeless remains 1 On referring to the
narrative, it is clear that the raising or exciting effect,
whatever it was, was produced in connexion with the earth­
quake : 11 And the earth did quake, and the rocks rent, and
the graves were opened, and many bodies of saints,” &.c.
Now we can indeed conceive that in such a preternatural
commotion, when the body of the earth about Jerusalem was
fearfully shaken, and the solid rocks made to cleave asunder,
and the sepulchral grottoes violently forced open, the tre­
mendous concussion should have disturbed the contents of
the tombs, raising some of the supine corpses into an erect
posture, dislodging some from their niches on ” the sides
of the pit,” and throwing them on the floor, and casting
others nearly or quite out of the opened entrances of their
dark abode. All these effects might have been visibly pro­
duced, and in the general commotion of that awful period, the
bodies thus displaced may have remained during the interval
till the resurrection, when they may have miraculously dis­
appeared at the time when, not the bodies but the saints,
emerged from the graves and made their appearance in the
holy city. This is the opinion of some commentators, but
we are unable to assent to it.* To us the hypothesis is far
• " The graves were opened at the Lord's crucifixion ; their tenants
»me forth after his resnrreerion ; ‘ consequently.' in the words of Dnd-
IQ*
Digitized by Googk
2 1 4 T U E D O C T R IN E OF T U R E a tttlK R C T IO N .
more probable, that the bodies disappeared immediately upon
what is termed their ‘ rising,’ and were seen no m ore; for
dridge, ‘the tombs stood open all the Sabbath, when the law would not
allow any attempt to close them. What an astonishing spectacle ! espe­
cially if their resurrection was not instantaneously accomplished, but by
such slow degrees as that represented in Ezekiel’s vision.’ Astonishing
indeed ! And how did the Jews evade the force of such a prodigy 1 The
sepulchre of Jesus was certainly found unclosed and empty: wherefore
the chief priests bribed the soldiers to say, that his disciplesstole the body
while they slept. But to what purpose was this fiction, if a multitude of
other graves were also thrown open, and the bodies which tenanted them
lay disclosed, subject to the inspection of the crowds who would eagerly
watch the progress of their revivification, from Friday afternoon till Sun­
day morning, when they came forth and starched into the holy city 1 How
could this be concealed 1 Was it pretended that the small band of disci­
ples stole all these bodies likewise 1 We do not find that any such fiction
was in this case resorted to : and, indeed, in this easel no one could have
believed i t ; since these things were not dpne in a comer,but all that was
passing in the graves was visible to every observer for more than thirty-
six hours. How then did the Jews evade it ? W edonst find that they had
any occasion to try to evade it; for we do not find, from any other part of
the gospel records, that either the friends of Christianity, orits enemies, or
a single inhabitant of this world, knew any thing about the matter.
“ Is it not very extraordinary, that this resurrection of dead bodies
should take place, and yet there should be no intimation as to what
became of them afterwards t Did they, after having shown themselves,
go and lie downagain in their graves, to wait for the final*resurrection at
the last dayV This, os the pious Doddridge observes, ‘ one can hardly
imagine.’ Did they then, like Lazarus and the others raised by the Lord
while in the world, continue to live on earth, in due time to die again!
This also, with Doddridge, ‘one can hardly imagine,—because it is only
said they appeared to them.’ Most, therefore, conclude, with the same
writeT, that ‘ they ascended to heaven, with, or after, our Lord for it would
beimpossible to suppose that they ascended before him. Butwhat was <bne
with them in the mean time 1 If they remained on earth for forty days,
how could they escape observation 1 how is it that'al! Jerusalem was not
in commotion on account of the presence of such extraordinary visitors1
Dr. Doddridge supposes, that ' they were directed to retire to Borne soli­
tude during the intermediate days, and to wait in devoutexercisesfor then-
change ; for surely,’ as be justly observes, *bad they ascended in the view
Digitized by Google
T U IC Iin V tU ARGVMBNT. 816
the «opposition is to ns utterly ineredible that these m aterial
bodies w ere the objects beheld by those to whom the subse
quent appearance was made. To the objections already
urged against this supposition, we may add, that the term
for *appeare.i,' [Irupavlaihiotni) is the proper term for the
manifestation o f a spiritual being, whether angel or depart,
ed spirit. This indicates that they were seen in vision, and
not with the natural eye, which was not formed to lake cog­
nizance of spiritual bodies.
(2.) But why, it tnay be asked, if the bodies did not ap­
pear, are they said to have been raised 1 A sufficient rea­
son, we think, may be assigned for this. The language of
of others, die memory of such a fact could not have been lost.' Indeed,
the affair of tbeir antension was conducted with such secrecy, that it was
not even witnessed by those who were admitted to witness the n9cension
of the Lord ; and, to make it a greater secret. Matthew himself does not
inform ns that it ever took place.
“ Now can any one suppose that a transaction which requires such im­
probable conjectures to make it possible, ever literally occurred at all 1
And whither could they ascend ! What region was there in existence
suited for the residence of resuscitated material bodies! They who con­
tend fora general resurrection of material bodies, find it necessary to pro­
vide n material world for their abode. Thus Dr. Hody says, ' Perhaps,
after all. our heaven will be nothing but a heaven upon earth, or some
glorious solid orb created on purpose for us in these immense regions
which we rail heaven. It seems more natural to suppose, that since we
are to have solid and material bodies, we may be placed, ns we are in this
life, on some solid and material orb—That, after the resurrection, we arc
to live for ever in a ncie ear tk, was, as Máximas tells ns, the opinion of
many in his time : and the same was asserted, in the third century, by St.
M he ins, bishop of Tyre, ill his treatise concerning the resurrection.'
What then was to become of these resuscitated.bodies of saints before
this neie earth was provided for them 1 for they who thus believe the
Scriptures literally, when they speak of a new heaven [or sky] and a new
earth, must believe them literally also when they say, that this new heaven
and new earth arc not to be produced till the former heaven and the former
earth have passed away. Prior to that event then, at least, a resuscitated
material body would be in the situation either of a fish in the air, or of a
bird under water: it could find no element suited to ita state ” Noble's
Appeal, pp. 64. 65.
Digitized by Googk
21« T B S D O O T K IN B O F T H B R Z S U B B B C T IO N .
the Seriptores as constructed very much on the xar oyer
principle, or in reference to the impressions made on the
senses. This is peculiarly the case in the ustis loquendi
which has respect to the phenomena of life and death.
When a person dies there is an apparent extinction of his
being. Nothing but an inert mass of clay remains, and this
we bury out of our sight. And although a moment’s reflec­
tion assures us that he still lives, as to his immortal part, in
another sphere of existence, yet moulding our language ac­
cording to sensible appearances, we say of a deceased friend,
that we have deposited him in the grave, and that he lies
there awaiting the final recall to life. The same mode of
speech undoubtedly obtains with the sacred writers. They
speak both of dying and of living again in language drawn
from sensible appearances; and in describing an event like
the present, where a visible phenomenon is the accompani­
ment and the sign of an invisible one, we can scarcely im­
agine any other form of expression in which to set it forth
than the one here actually adopted. The true design of
such an occurrence undoubtedly was to signalize the august
event of the Saviour’s death, resurrection, and ascension,
by providing from among the trophies of the grave a fitting
retinue, to grace his triumphal entry into heaven. As the
redemption he had wrought by his sufferings was to avail to
the deliverance of all his people of all ages from death, we can
see a peculiar propriety in his thus giving an illustrious ear­
nest of this result in the circumstances of his own victory
over death and the grave. Why should it not be shown, by
a visible demonstration, that a sacrifice of sufficient value
to unseal his own sepulchre and let the captive go free,
should open those also of a portion of his saints, as a pledge
of what would be done for the whole 7 But how could the
true resurrection of spiritual bodies be attested but by the
resurrection of material bodies 7 As the invisible power of
Jesus over the spirits of darkness which infest men’s souls,
was evinced by his power over the demons that assaulted their
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 1 7
bodiesiathe days of his flesh—the very end perhaps for which
suchpossessions were then allowed—so in like manner was
this visible awakening of dead bodies a speaking symbolic
exhibition of a far more glorious work wrought in behalf of
their emancipated spirits. And occurring as it did just at
the moment when he expired on the cross, it showed that
thepower of his redemption, so far from being in abeyance
at that awful crisis, was even then working in its divinest
energy towards a multitude of his sleeping saints. Then in­
deed. was tha proper hoar lor the visible effect which was
wrought upon their bodies, in connexion with his dying
groan, the rending of the rocks, the darkening of the sun,
and the throes of nature convulsed ; but not then was the
time for their true and invisible resurrection, for it was de­
signedthat “ in all things he should have the pre-eminence ; ”
he was to be raised as “ the first-fruits of them that slept,”
be was to be “ the first-begotten from the dead, ” and it be­
hooved not that the resurrection of the members should
precede that of the Head. Accordingly the interval of three
days elapsed before they came forth (the mere bodies were
not they), and went into the holy city and appeared in spir­
itual vision to many of their brethren. On that same
day our Lord ascended to heaven, and who can doubt that
this very company of risen saints ascended with him, form­
ing the celestial cohort which adorned his advent to the por­
tals of what was in the truest sense the ‘ holy city, the heav­
enly Jerusalem.’ Indeed we can scarcely doubt that this is
themore genuine and true-meant import ofthe ‘ holy city,’ in­
to which the risen saints entered. We do not deny that they
may have made their appearance, in the way suggested, to
some of the followers of Christ in the literal Jerusalem, but
it must be admitted that the designation is a very singular
one in this connexion, and seems to savor somewhat of the
spirit of prophecy to which it is almost the appropriated title
for the celestial Hierosolyma.
This, as we understand it, is the true character of the
yGoogk
9 1 8 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
wondrous event here recorded. It was, in the main, an in­
visible resurrection of a multitude of the saints, ordained to
honor the resurrection of the Saviour, with a more special
and ultimate reference to the invisible glory of his ascension.
It was not designed that he should enter heaven alone. An
attestation was to be given to the countless ranks of celes­
tial beings, of the efficacy of the Redeemer’s atoning work.
As he alone had opened heaven to their access, so be was
destined to lead thither with him an immense company of
disenthralled spirits, in spiritual bodies, as an assuring pledge
of what should be accomplished from age to age for the
rising remainder.
We are well aware of the apparently confounding ques­
tions which may be proposed on this view of the subject. If
these saints had previously slept in God, had they not enter­
ed into rest t—had they not, on our theory, really arisen i
Were they not already existing, like Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob, like Moses and Elias, in resurrection-bodies t How
then can they be supposed to have first arisen at the resur­
rection of Christ! We reply, that we do not suppose that,
strictly speaking, they did now first arise. No one can be­
lieve that their spirits had been dormant with their bodies
through the period that had elapsed since their death; and
if they had existed in a conscious state, during that interval,
they must have been happy; and if happy in a spiritual
world, they must, we conceive, have been really subsisting
in spiritual bodies. Rut let it be remembered, that the de­
sign was to put forth to the senses of men a visible effect—a
demonstration to the outward eye, of a grand process that
was going cm in the spiritual world. It was the purpose of
the Most High to evince, in some striking manner, the all­
important fact, that the eternal and heavenly life of the Old
Testament saints was as much connected with the redemp­
tion-work of Jesus, as that of the saints of the New. And
let any man frame to himself, if he can, any other mode of
yGoogk
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 1 9
representing this fact, than one that should appear to indicate
it as even then in the process of transpiring. Is it not a
troth unquestionable, that the sainted souls of the former
economy enter heaven by the merits of Christ? Was not
his resurrection and ascension as essential to them as it is to
os? Was it not as important to bring their resurrection and
glorification into connexion with his, as it is to bring ours
into that connexion? And how could this be externally
evidenced to living men, but by some visible effect produced
upon their visible bodies ? The simple appearing of spirit­
ual bodies might indeed hare tended to this result, but it
would not carry with it that conviction which would arise
fromsome obvious connexion of the spiritual bodies with the
material. As the event was ordered, every end was accom­
plished, and this amazing incident stands as an irrefragable
proof of the retrospective efficacy of the Saviour’s restored
life, to secure the spiritual and eternal life of those of his
Mints who had died before, as well as that of those who
abosld live and die after him. What then is wanting to give
this event a significsncy of the vastest moment in the con­
nexion in which it is introduced, while at the same time it
affords no adequate proof of the general theory of the resur­
rection o f the body, but rather of the reverse.
And let us here remark, that we are not without strong
impressions that Peter’s allusion to Christ’s going and
“ preaching to the spirits in prison,” after he was put to
death in the flesh, but quickened in the spirit, will yet re­
ceive its solution from the very passage which we are now
considering. The apostle’s words certainly seem to intimate
an occurrence that took place at the very time to which we
are now adverting, and though we confess to a great diffi­
culty in regard to the precise nature or object of the
' preaching ’ mentioned, as also in respect to the subjects to
whom it was addressed, as having been “ disobedient in the
days of Noah,” yet we still think the difficulty will be event­
Digitized by Google
2 2 0 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
ually overcome, and the two events brought into perfect har­
mony with each other.* The suggestion has occurred to us,
that as the true sense of ‘preaching’ (xt^tWai), is simply
‘proclaiming,’ the idea might be, that the Saviour’s spirit
went into the world of spirits, the common receptacle of all
the departed, and there simply proclaimed or announced the
fact of his having conquered death in dying, and of his being
about to accomplish a glorious resurrection, which should be
available to consummate the hopes ofthe patriarchsand saints
who had died in the faith of a blessed immortality, which,
as it depended upon Christ’s redemption-work, could not be
fu lly enjoyed until he had lived, died, risen, and ascended.
Into this vast assembly, therefore, of departed spirits, repre­
sented as being in hades, or the under-world, his own spirit
descended, and though the immense majority of them were
the spirits of wicked men, such as were disobedient in the
days of Noah, and who were to receive no benefit from his
atonement, yet there were multitudes among them of a dif­
ferent character, to whom the tidings announced would be
tidings of great joy, and they, by their previous moral state,
would be attracted to him, and thus made to share with him
in the glory of his triumphal ascension into the highest hea-
* “ It is evident,” says Bp. Horsley, “ that the descending into hell is
spoken of as an action of the Lord, bat as an action performed by him
after he was dead and buried, and before he rose again. This, therefore,
was an act of that part of the man which continues alive after death, that
is, of the soul separated by death from the body, as the interment must
be understood of the body apart from the soul. The dead body could no
more gointo hell than the living soul could be laid in the grave.” Serm. on
1 P et. 3. 19, 22. Our Lord certainly was not in lull, or hade», as here
understood, in any sense, before his death, nor was he there after his
resurrection. It follows, that in the interval between his death and his
resurrection, his soul was in hell, and to this we think it unquestionable
that the Psalmist’s words refer, Ps. 16. 10, “ Thou wilt not leave my soul
in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One (my body) to see corrup­
tion.” And then, if ever, it was, that he preached to the ‘spirits in
prison.’
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 21
Tens, after the three days were expired. But, as in the days
of Noah, out of the vast population of the globe then living,
only eight souls were saved in the ark, so out of these count­
less myriads of departed spirits, only a similar proportion, in
comparison of the whole, may have been prepared to form
the spiritual retinue of the King of saints. Of this number
the bodies of a considerable portion were yet probably in a
state of sufficient integrity to be the subject of such a visi­
ble change as should symbolically correspond with the pro­
cess that was going on in the invisible world in relation to
their spirits. While, therefore, the idea receives no coun­
tenance that the Gospel, as a means of repentance and sal­
vation, was thus preached to the lost spirits in the prison of
hell, we can see, at the same time, if this view of the subject
be correct, that there is some foundation for the ancient
church doctrine of the limbus patrum, where their souls
were retained in a state of expectancy, looking for the ac­
complished work of Christ’s resurrection.
When we consider the importance which is given to this
doctrine in the theology of the primitive church, and the
prominent place it holds in what is called the Apostle’s
Creed, in the article which asserts that he “ descended into
hell (hades),” we can scarcely doubt that it is built upon
some solid scriptural basis. In this we are confirmed by
the sentiments which prevailed in the Jewish church re­
specting the state of the departed righteous—sentiments un->
doubtedly founded upon some passages of the Old Testa­
ment, whatever were their true meaning. Thus they speak
of the souls of the pious Israelites, as reposing under the
throne of the divine glory, or the Shekinah, until the
resurrection, and there awaiting a deliverance which is
to be wrought for them by the Messiah, under the
name of the Son of David. (Eisenmenger’s Ended. Ju-
dent, vol. II. p. 364 et inf.) These ideas were derived
from the apprehended import of certain passages of their
Scriptures, upon which were built also the views enter­
Digitized by Googk
222 T H E D O C T R IN E OF T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
tained in the primitive Church respecting Christ’s descent
into hell. A remarkable passage to this effect, is found in
the apochryphal book of Jeremiah, quoted both by Justin
Martyr, and Irenteus, of which we give a literal translation :
“ The Lord, the God of Israel, hath called to remembrance
his own deceased that have slept under the over-heaped
dust of the earth, and hath descended unto them to preach to
them the gospel of his salvation.”
The only passage in the New Testament, containing a
very express allusion to this event, is that above referred to
in the Epistle of Peter. That there is an important truth
of some kind involved in his words cannot be questioned;
and if so, we are doubtless authorized to regard the senti­
ment as sustained by other portions of the Scriptures, if
we could succeed in ascertaining them. A doctrine of so
much moment we can scarcely consider as resting alone upon
a single isolated text. Upon what Scriptures then is the
declaration of Peter grounded! If the fact be admitted,
for which there appears to be abundant ground, that our
Saviour’s resurrection had a retrospective as well as a pro­
spective efficacy, and if this passage in Peter were actually
designed to teach that doctrine, then it were reasonable to
expect that we should find elsewhere interspersed through
the sacred books equivalent intimations, which should easily
resolve themselves into such a sense. As, however, the na­
ture of the transaction, as well as its scene, is of necessity
shrouded in a peculiar obscurity, from its lying within the
sphere of the spiritual and not of the natural world, so a
similar obscurity may be presumed to characterize the lan­
guage that sets it forth. Walking in a land of shadows, we
may well suppose that only a dim and misty light should
shine upon its aerial tenants. Still we shall perhaps find
intimations of which we little thought.
Let us again recar to our assumed fact; which is, that
the souls of the departed saints under the old economy, had
not entered into the full fruition of celestial joys, but were.
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT.
held, or as it were detained, in a state of expectancy, await-
¡Bg the death and resurrection of Christ, as an event which
was to usher in to them a signal epoch of enlargement and
consummation, while, at the same time, it secured to him the
prerogative of having in all things the pre-eminence, and
especially of being the “ first-fruits of them that slept.”
We say, if this be a real doctrine of revelation, we are au­
thorized to look for the traces of it in a variety of texts.
In quest of these we turn first to the Old Testament, waving
for the present all reference to the sentiments of the Chris­
tian Fathers, who are very unanimous in holding the doc­
trine, and whose language is clear and unequivocal in pro­
portion to their antiquity. Their testimony will be seen
recited at great length in Pearson on the Creed.
T he 68th Psalm has ever been regarded by commenta­
tors as mystically shadowing forth the august event of
Christ’s resurrection and ascension—an idea which re­
ceives a direct warrant from the apostle’s words, Eph. 4.
8— 10: “ Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on
high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men.
(Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descend­
ed first into the lower parts of the earth? He that de­
scended is the same also that ascended up far above all
heavens, that he might fill all things.)” He then goes on
to speak of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, &c.,
as among these ascension-gifts of Christ. The phrase
which more particularly demands attention is that which
asserts the ‘ leading of captivity captive,’ which might seem
to receive its more fitting explanation from the idea now
suggested of the deliverance, the emancipation, of those who
were held as a multitude of expectant detenus under a kind
of captivity previous to the event here celebrated. This
would appear to be confirmed by the explanatory descant of
the apostle, whose language is certainly very germane to
that of Peter, supposing him also to have the same time
and the same event in view, as the Hades of the Scrip­
2 2 3
Digitized by Googk
2 2 4 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
tures is regarded as constituting the under-world. We are
aware that the expression, ‘descended into the lower parts
of the earth,’ is often interpreted simply of Christ’s descent
from heaven to the earth, and his becomiag incarnate on the
earth, and in a word of his whole humiliation, terminating in
his death and burial. But from the peculiar connexion in
which it here occurs, and from a parallel phraseology else­
where (Is. 44.23. Ezek. 26. 20. 31. 14. Ps. 63. 10, 11),
we cannot conceive that any violence is done to the lan­
guage by adopting Theophylact’s interpretation: “ It is
manifest that he who was above, not only descended into
the earth, when he became incarnate, but also into hades,
when he died.” But if he descended into hades, it must,
we think, have been for the purpose intimated by Peter, to
free a portion of its inhabitants from some kind of captivity;
and this brings the passage into perfect harmony with what
would seem to be the drift of the Psalmist. But let us here
repeat, that the design of this descent to the world of spirits,
was not to preach repentence or procure salvation for lost
souls, but merely to announce the just impending event of
the resurrection and ascension to the departed saints who
had long been expecting it, and to provide himself from that
number with a countless retinue who were to accompany
him to heaven, and in reference to whom the Psalmist says
again, “ The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even
thousands of angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai,
in the holy place.” These redeemed spirits were now in
an angelic state, and therefore called by that appellation.
Such seems to be a fair and probable interpretation of this
scripture, and it is certainly not a little interesting to find
it thus capable of being brought into close relation with the
passage in Peter, and through that with the evangelical in­
cident of the raising of the ‘ many bodies of saints that
slept.’ The evidence of the truth of the exegesis will pro­
bably retain its strength in the mind of the reader, if he
keeps distinctly in view the moral scope of the transaction,
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 2 5
which was to unite in me point the results o f Christ’s media­
tion in regard to the Old and the New Testament saints—
to show that his resurrection was available to the resurrec­
tion and eternal heavenly life of both these grand depart­
ments of the Church. In this view the rending of the vail
of the Temple, which took place in immediate connexion
with the quickening of the sleeping saints, will perhaps as­
sume a new significancy, as it seems to indicate the making
■
m
e of what had before been two; although the incident
may have had a still wider reach of typical import.
Another passage, which may perhaps be best explained
on the ground of this idea, is the following: Mic. 2. 13,
“ The Breaker is come up before them ; they have broken
up and passed through the gate, and are gone out by it; and
their king shall pass before them, and the Lord on the head
ofthem." This is very appropriate to the idea of a victo­
rious leader, a spiritual Samson, who demolishes the gates
of Hades, und lends forth in triumph its incarcerated or de­
tained captives, forming them into a splendid procession, of
which he puts himself at the head.
The following extracts from the Rabbinical writers dis­
cover a view of the subject very nearly akin to this, though
mixed up with a vein of mysticism through which, as is very
often the case with their extravagances, there gleams a
golden thread of truth. “ And R. Joshua Ben Levi said,
I went with the angel Kipphod, and came to the gates of
hades, and there went with me Messias, the son of David.
And when the prisoners who were in Gehenna saw the
light of Messias, they rejoiced on receiving him, saying, He
will bring us out from this obscurity, as it is said, IIos.
13. 14, ' I will redeem them from hades, I will free them from
death !’ And thus saith Isaiah, 35. 10, 1 The redeemed of
the Lord shall return and come to Ziou !” JBcreshith Jlab-
ha ad Gen. 24. 6 ?. The same work on Gen. 44. S, adds,
“ This is what is written, Cant 1. 4, ‘ We will rejoice and
he glad iti thee.’ When? When the captives shall ascend
Digitized by Googk
2 2 6 T U B D O C T R IN E O F T H E B M U R R E C T IO N .
from hades, and the Shekinah at their bead, as it is written
Mic. 2. 13, ‘ and their king shall go forth before them, and
the Lord on the head of them.' ” Again, in the Emtck
Hammelek, fol. 188, it is said, “ The son of David shall
pass over it (Gehenna) to set them free.”*
Another passage which is perhaps to be construed in the
same sense, is Is. 53. 8 : “ He was taken from prison and
from judgment; and who shall declare his generation ?”
These words have always been regarded as presenting
greater difficulties to the expositor than those of any other
verse in the chapter. So far as they relate to the earthly his­
tory of the Messiah, it is conceded that he was never literally
in prison, and consequently could not be said to have been
taken from prison. Some other sense must be affixed to the
clause. The original word is s properly signifies confine­
ment or restraint upon liberty, and is therefore in itself pe­
culiarly appropriate to the idea of that state o f detention
* It seems capable of proof that this state, from which the expectant
souls of the Old Testament saints were delivered by Christ, is the state
of which the term Paradise is more properly to be understood, as a state
of real but imperfect happiness. Accordingly, we see in this the ground
of our Saviour’s assurance to the dying thief, that he should that day be
with him in Paradise ; not in heaven, to which it does not appear that he
ascended till after his resurrection. This would bring the dying thief into
the train of the ascending Saviour, and it-does not seem probable that he
would promise him an entrance into heaven before he entered there him­
self. ■
On the view here exhibited, the doctrine of an intermediate state,
subsequent to the resurrection of Christ, must be considered to vanish quite
away. The sentiments of the primitive Christian fathers on that subject
appear to have been based upon Scriptural intimations, which have respect
only to those who lived under the former dispensation. To them there
was indeed an intermediate state between death and the resurrection, i. e.
the resurrection of Christ; but we are unable to perceive upon what
grounds such a state can be maintained in reference to the saints of the
New Testament era. We think the reader will share deeply in onr ina­
bility on thisscore, if he admits the justness of our reasonings in the chap­
ter on the ‘Connexion between the Resurrection and the Judgment.’
yGoogk
THS SOBJPTUKAL AlieUMKNT. 3 2 7
which is in Peter predicated of the waiting spirits to whom
in his descent to the under-world he preached or made his
announcement. We know too, as a matter of fact, that it
was from this place as the terminus a quo, that he ascended
toglory. Now it is remarked by Vitringa that the original
word for taken ( n ^ ) is the very word which is elsewhere
nsed in reference to that kind of assumption of which our
Lord was made the subject when he ascended to heaven.
Thus it is said of Enoch, Gen. 5. 24, that “ he was not, for
God took (ngb) him.” So also of Elijah, 2 Kings 2. 3,
“Knowest thou that the Lord trill take away (n]ib) thy
master from thy head to-day 1” Thus also the Psalmist, Ps.
49. 15, “ But God will redeem my soul from the power of
the grave (Sheol, Hades); for he shall receive me (*'5055*').”
Ps. 73. 24, “ Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and
afterward receive me (■':n]sn) to glory.” “ The older inter­
preters,” says Hengstenberg (in loc.), “ for the most
part refer these words to the glorification. They take
is, from, not as causative, but in the sense of out of, and
translate the verb ngh either by, to rescue, to deliver,
or by, to take up, to take away, namely to God. So the
Vulgate, ‘ De angustia et judicio sublatus est.’ Jerome on
the passage says, ‘ De tribulatione atque judicio ad patrem
victor ascendit.’ Joh. H. Michaelis, ‘Exemptus et ad
dextram majestatis assumptus est.’ ” These ‘ older inter­
preters’ we think have come nearer the truth than some of
their modern successors. The Greek equivalent for ngh,
teastaken, is, was received, or taken up, which oc­
curs repeatedly in reference to Christ’s assumption to glory.
(Mark 16. 19. Acts 1 . 2. 1 Tim. 3. 16). In the latter of
these passages, 1 Tim. 3. 16, in the apostle’s condensed
summary of the various items constituting the ‘ great mys­
tery of godliness,’ he says, “ God was manifest in the flesh,
justified in the spirit, seen o f angels, preached unto the
Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory
where the circumstance of his being ‘ seen of angels,’ prob­
Digitized by Google
2 2 8 T H E D O C T R IN E OF T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
ably refers to the event we are now considering, as it is
unquestionable that the term ‘ angels’ is frequently applied
to the disembodied spirits of good men. Thus far then
the prophet’s language seems to admit an easy reference to
the descent and the assumption of which we are now speak­
ing, and we see no objection that can be urged to this view
of his meaning, unless it be iu the very slight and cursory,
or, as we may say, perfunctory, style of the allusion. It is,
as it were, but glanced at in the prophetic narrative, and
immediately followed, ns it is preceded, by the mention of
particulars relating to his visible history on earth. But
from the nature of the event itself, and from the general
tenor of other allusions to it, this is perhaps all that was
to he expected. Indeed, if we mistake not, this very char­
acter of obscurity is hinted at in the connexion itself. The
words immediately ensuing are, “ But who shall declare his
generation ?” The original nrrtah sa trin rto Gesettius
and others render, “ And who of his cotemporaries shall
consider ?” i. e. who of his people shall duly reflect upon, ap­
preciate, and understand this cirumstance of his mediatorial
work; ns if it were something which should only at a late
period be rightly apprehended in all its bearings. We arc
aware that other senses have been and may be very plausibly
ascribed to these words, nor do we presume to vouch for the
correctness of that we have now suggested; yet as it may be
legitimately deduced from the language, it acquires verisimil­
itude in proportion to the evidence, that we have rightly
interpreted what precedes.*
* O f th e o th e r in te r p re ta tio n s w h ic h h a v e b e e n proposed o f th is c la n -'
w e g iv e th e p re fe re n c e to th a t w h ic h m a k e s T it; generation e q u iv a le n t to
life, o r duration o f lift, im p ly in g , in a largo s e n s e , the glorious eternal
life of the risen Redeemer, with all it» phenomena and effect». Thu» it
¡» a fte rw a rd s a J d e d , v. 10, 11, •• He »(m il se e h is s e e d ; he »hall prolong
hit days." Again, it is s a id o f th e k in g M e s s ia h . Ps. 21. 5, •• He asked
lite o f th e e , a n d th o u g a v e st it h im , eo e n length o f day* forever and e v e r"
Digitized b\
google
TBE SCRIPTURAL ARGUHXNT. 2 2 9
As to the connected terra ‘judgment’—‘ was taken from
prison and from judgm ent'—there is no difficulty in under­
standing it offavorable judgment or acquittal, which is a fre­
quent Scriptural sense of the term, and in this relation de­
notes the auspicious result of the preaching or announcing,
which was the object of this benign visitation to the detain­
ed and expectant spirits of hades. The benefit procured
for them was accomplished in a way of obedience to law,
and by the bringing in of an accepted righteousness, and is,
therefore, properly denominated ‘judgment,’
To the above catalogue of Scriptural testimonies to the
important dogma of the descent into hades, for the enlarge­
ment of a portion of its waiting spirits, may, perhaps, be
added that of several of the types of the Old Testament.
The case of Joseph releasing one of his fellow-prisoners,
during his own incarceration, may be thought, if it have any
bearing in this direction, to be less decisive than that of
Jonah, which our Lord himself brings in some way into a
symbolical relation with his own invisible state during the
three days of his sojourn in the bowels of the earth. If
such a significancy as we have hinted at may be allowed in
this remarkable incident in Jonah’s history, we are perhaps
to regard the prayer uttered in his sub-aqueous imprison­
ment as embodying the substance of the virtual supplica­
tions of the expectant souls of the under-world for that de­
liverance which was so signally shadowed forth by the proph­
et’s issuing forth, on the third day, from the ‘ belly of hell.’
It is, at any rate, impossible to explain away a typical coin-
Thus, too, in speaking of himself, Rev. 1.18, “ I am he that liveth, and
was dead ; and behold, I am alive for evermore.” With this accords the
language of the Apostle, Heb. 7. 16, “ Who is made (an high priest), not
after the law of a camal commandment, but after the power of an endless
life.” According to this, the purport of the words is, Who shall duly
understand, weigh, and estimate aright that glorious and endless life upon
which the Messiah shall enter, upon his release from the bonds of death,
upon his emergence from the under-world of souls 1
11
Digitized by Google
2 3 0 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
cidence of some kind between this event in Jonah’s life and
the condition of our Lord during the same space of time
immediately subsequent to his crucifixion, and at the very
time, too, when, if ever, he performed the work which the
Scriptures ascribe to him in behalf of the sainted spirits of
hades.
But a type of still directer reference to the event in ques­
tion is perhaps to be recognized in the remarkable rite pre­
scribed in the purification of the leper, Lev. 14. 4-7, by
which one of the two clean birds employed on that occasion
was commanded to be set at liberty to fly into the open
field. The two birds have apparently a typical reference to
a twofold subject, the one representing a slain, the other
a living and released subject; and if the one be supposed
to point to Christ as the sacrificial victim, it is possible that
the other may denote a class of those who are the beneficia­
ries of his atonement, and receive a gracious enlargement
from some kind of thraldom in consequence of it, and at
the very time of the sacrifice, for the living bird was to be
dipped in the blood of the dead one, and immediately to be let
loose in the air. May not this more suitably represent the
reality to which we now refer it than any other 1 Of the
two goats which were slain on the day of atonement we
have, we think, shown in our Notes on Lev. 16th, that the
scape-goat denoted another subject than Christ, and, if so,
why may not the scape-bird denote something else!
But without insisting upon allusions which are of neces­
sity somewhat remote, we may, we think, plausibly claim to
have shown that the remarkable passage relative to Christ’s
descent into hades is sustained by the unimpeachable testi­
mony of holy w rit; and if we do not misjudge, the same ev­
idence which establishes this establishes also the fact, that
the event is to be viewed in the closest connexion with the
resurrection of the bodies of the sleeping saints at the cru­
cifixion. This is the gist of the position, as far as we are
concerned with it. As the view has been presented, it is
yGoogk
divested of all that drapery of extravagance which ecclesias­
tical antiquity has thrown around it, and it is seen standing
aloof from all connexion with the dogma of purgatorial pen­
ance. Contemplated in this relation, it is not surprising
that it should have been rejected from the theology of an
enlightened age. But when surveyed purely as a doctrine
of revelation, and freed from the additaments of superstition
and priestcraft, it comes before us as one of the most inter­
esting features of that divine system of redemption which
binds up in one bundle of blessing the eternal destiny of all
the saints.
It now remains briefly to view the present passage in
connexion with one or two other Scriptures, upon which it
will be found, if we mistake not, to shed great light. And
first, we regard this incident in the Gospel narrative as a
legitimate primary fulfilment of the prediction of Daniel,
ch. 12. 2, “ And many of them that sleep in the dust of the
earth shall awake; some to everlasting life, and some to
shame and everlasting contempt.” We have, already, in our
previous exposition of this passage (p. 131), given our rea­
sons for translating these words as follows: “ Many out of
those sleeping in the dust of the ground -shall awake: those
(who awake), (shall be) to everlasting life; those (who do
not awake), (shall be) to shame and everlasting contempt.”
This event, as we learn from the preceding verse, is to occur
at a period when “ Michael shall stand up, the great prince
that standeth for the children of the people ; and there shall
be a time of trouble, such as there never was since there
was a nation, even to that same time ; and at that time thy
people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found writ­
ten in the book.” This ‘ time of trouble ’ is to be taken in
alarge sense, including the calamitous period of the destruc­
tion of Jerusalem, of which our Saviour himself says, Mat.
24. 21, “ There shall be great tribulation, such as was not
since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever
shall be.” This clearly identifies the periods, for there can­
THY SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 3 1
Digitized by Googk
333 THI DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
not be two epochs, both of which shall exclude all parallels
in the way here described, as this would be to exclude each
other. Michael is here, as in Rev. 12, the mystical or pro­
phetical designation of the Messiah, and his ‘ standing for
the children of thy people,’ denotes his providential agency
in the disastrous events of that great crisis. The ‘ awaking
of many from the dust of the earth,’ has, undoubtedly, an
involved reference to the ‘ deliverance of those that were
written in the book,’ i. e. the book of life, or preservation,
of which the literal awaking of the sleeping saints was a
sensible adumbration. It is no real objection to this exege­
sis, that in the one case it seems to be affirmed that a part of
the sleepers arose to ‘ shame and everlasting contempt,’
whereas in the other it is only asserted th a t' many bodies of
the saints’ arose. We have already seen that in the former
case a resurrection, in the true sense, is not really affirmed
of the wicked. They remain unawakened, and there is
nothing in the expressions rightly understood to prevent the
two passages being brought into entire parallelism. By
viewing them in this relation to each other, the difficulties
usually felt in regard to the fulfilment of Daniel’s oracle, are
done away. It is assuredly something which is to take
place in a time of trouble, that, as we have seen, answers
only to the end of the Jewish state, and the destruction of
Jerusalem. What then can it mean but the very thing
which we have affirmed ? The only point difficult of con­
cession is, that it brings the crucifixion and resurrection of
Christ within the period of Jerusalem’s calamities. But let
it be considered, that the prediction was uttered hundreds of
years before the events occurred, and when we allow for the
extended sweep of prophecy, which necessarily oftentimes
groups together events separated by very considerable inter­
vals of time, we see nothing improbable in the idea, that the
whole period of Christ’s earthly sojourning, and the final ca­
tastrophe of the Jewish metropolis, may be included in the
range of the prediction. For the present, then, we have no
Digitized by Google
difficulty in the conclusion, that the ‘ sleepers in the dust,’ in
both cases, are the same, and that while a temporal deliver­
ance of those who were ‘ written in the book,’ is, in fact,
intended, the prophecy received at the same time a literal
fulfilment as an outward sign of the other, in the event that
took place at the crucifixion.
T o the same event, in an emphatical sense, we are in­
clined to refer our Lord’s words, John 5. 25: “ Verily,
verily, I say unto you, the hour is coming, and now is,
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God : and
they that hear shall live.” It is by no means necessary to
exclude from this reference the various cases of resuscitation
mentioned elsewhere in the evangelists, as that of Lazarus,
the daughter of Jairus, and the young man of Nain. Nor
do we refuse to recognize the sense of a moral or spiritual
resurrection as the effect of the preaching of the life-giving
doctrines of the Gospel. But no one, we think, can fail to
perceive a most striking adaptation in the words themselves
to the circumstances of the resurrection we are now consid­
ering. It was an event to be effected, in a peculiar man­
ner, by the ‘ voice’ (<
j>
c
o
v
t¡) of the Son of man ; and accord­
ingly it is said, Mat. 27. 5®-52, “ Jesus, when he had cried
again with a loud voice (ipwf; pe/ály), yielded up the ghost.
And, behold, the vail of the temple was rent in twain, from
the top to the bottom ; and the earth did quake, and the
rocks rent.” This voice, while it was the last effort of his
own expiring breath, was, to the sleeping dust of the saints,
the reviving fiat which spoke them into supernatural anima­
tion, and thus symbolically exhibited the new-creating energy
that was to flow from his doctrines in connexion with his
death. It is by illustrations of this nature that we see how
wondrously the frame-work of revelation is dove-tailed
together.
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMXNT. 2S3
Digitized by Google
2 3 4 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
John V. 28, 29.
OR.
Mi] & tv/taÇeze t ovTO’ on
ig y e ra i wqu, i r ç n a rre t oi
tV jo ïç fivq /ie io it u xo va o rra i
z tjt (fto rq t a vrov,
K a l ¿xnoçtvaovTai oi t a
à y a û à nou'/oaeref t i t àea-
cra iu e Ça>rjt, oi fie zà ga v ia
n g d ^ a rre t elg à v ia ta a tv kq i-
aecog- .
ENO. VERS.
Marvel not at this: for the
hour is coming, in the which all
that are in the graves shall
hear his voice,
And shall come forth; they
that have done good, unto the
resurrection of life; and they
that havp done evil, unto the
resurrection of damnation.
This is undoubtedly the strongest passage in the New
Testament in favor of the common view of the resurrection,
and one in respect to which it becomes us seriously to
guard against any undue bias, from theoretical promptings,
to wrest it from its true-meant design. If we know our­
selves, we would deal, with the profoundest deference and
with the utmost fairness, with every declaration of holy writ;
and, in regard to the present passage, we cannot fail to per­
ceive that it is marked by a certain directness of enunciation,
in respect to the general subject, which must be considered
as strongly countenancing the construction which the Chris­
tian world has ever for the most part been led to put upon
it. Still it can, as we conceive, be no impeachment of a
becoming reverence for the words of him “ who spake as
never man spake” to institute the inquiry, how far and on
what principles his language on this occasion can be recon­
ciled with the views thus far maintained in our preceding
pages. Let us trust, then, that the truth will not be offended
by the following suggestions.
(1.) It is unquestionable that our Lord speaks in this
passage in stronger terms than he usually adopts in regard
to the resurrection of the dead. However it may be ac­
, counted for, the fact is nevertheless certain, that he for the
most part speaks of it as the distinguishing privilege and
prerogative of the righteous. Thus Luke, 20. 35, 36:
Digitized by Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 235
“ But they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that
world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor
are given in marriage; neither can they die any more ; for
they are equal unto the angels, and are the children (sons)
of God, being the children (sons) o f the resurrection.”
Here it is clear that the ‘ children of God ’ are identified as
the same with the ‘ children of the resurrection.’ Again,
Luke 14. 12-14, when commanding his disciples to call
the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind, to their feasts, he
adds, “ And thou shah be blessecf; for they cannot recom­
pense thee ; for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrec­
tion o f the ju st;” as if the resurrection belonged emphati­
cally to the just. In strict accordance with this the apostle
expresses himself, Phil. 3. 11, “ If by any means I might
attain unto the resurrection o f the dead.” We have no
doubt that this aspect of the subject could be abundantly
explained by reference to the prevailing sentiments of the
Jews at and before the time of Christ, but we here advert
to it simply as a fact well entitled to attention in this con­
nexion—a fact undoubtedly forcing upon us the inference,
that some special reason existed for adopting on this occa­
sion a style of announcement diverse from that which gene­
rally obtains in the New Testament teachings on this sub­
ject. '
(2.) The passage, as understood in its literal import, does
certainly encounter the force of that cumulative mass of
evidence, built upon rational and philosophical grounds,
which we have arrayed against any statement of the doc­
trine that would imply the participation of the body in that
rising again which is predicated of the dead. We do not
by any means affirm that the conclusions from that source,
to which we have come, are sufficient of themselves to coun­
tervail the rebutting conclusion which may be formed from
the present passage. All we would say is, that they have
weight, and consequently we are not required, or rather are
not at liberty, at once to dismiss them, as a kind of profane
Digitized by Googk
intruders into holy ground, where even the “ daughter of a
voice ” from Reason is not to insinuate itself into the ears
of Faith. We confidently re-affirm our position, that the
human mind cannot be insensible to the claims of the argu­
ments which we have presented in the form of rational ob­
jections to the views of the resurrection that would naturally
be suggested by the literal reading of the present text.*
We assert it to be impossible that the mind should not feel
itself pressed with a difficulty of vast weight, when, on the
one hand, it reads a declaration implying that the dead uni­
versally shall, at a given time, ages after the words were
uttered, issue forth from their graves ; and when, on the other,
the clearest induction of reason assures it, that at that
period millions of bodies which were once deposited in those
graves are no longer there. The truth is, this voluntary
ignoring a difficulty urged against the inspired record-is not
so much a decorous subjection of reason to revelation, as it
is a downright crucifixion of reason, which assuredly cannot
be a sacrifice well pleasing to the God of reason.
936 THS DOCTRINE OV THS RESURRECTION.
* “ Your first argument,” says Mr. Locke, (Third L et. to Stillingfleet,
p. 169), “ to prove that it must be the same body, is taken from these
words of our Saviour,' All that are in their graves shall hear his voice,
and shall come forth.’ From whence your lordship argues that these
words, ‘ all that are in their graves,’ relate to no other substance than
what was related to the soul in life, because a different substance cannot
be said to be in the graves, and to come out of them. Which words of
your lordship, if they prove any thing, prove that the soul too is lodged in
the grave, and raised out of it at the last day. For your lordship says,
‘ Can a different substance be said to be in the graves, and to come out of
them ? So that, according to this interpretation of these words of our
Saviour, no other substance being raised but what hears his voice ; and no
other substance hearing his voice but what, being called, comes out of the .
grave ; and no other substance coming out of the grave, but what was in
the grave ; any one must conclude, that the soul, unless it be in the grave,
will make no part of the person that is raised, ‘unless,’ as your lordship
argues against me, ‘ you can make it out, that a substance which was
never in the grave can come out of it,’ or that the soul is no substance.”
yGoogk
TBC BCEIPTOBAL ABQUMENT. 2 3 7
So far aa we are eonpetent to form a judgment, the evi­
dence from reason preponderates in favor ofthe idea of the im­
mediate entrance at death upon the resurrection-state. This
evidence we have seen to be confirmed by the testimony of
a multitude of passages which yield this more easily and
naturally than any other sense. But in the text under con­
sideration, and perhaps a few others, the doctrine of a future,
simultaneous bodily resurrection seems to be explicitly
taught. Here then we are reduced to a new dilemma.
The character of the difficulty is changed. It is not so
much now a conflict between Revelation and Reason, as it
is an apparent conflict between one part of Revelation and
another. This consequently changes at once the whole
complexion of the controversy, if such it may be called.
The harmonizing of the Scripture statements is of course
the common concern of all Christians. The exhibition of
such seeming discrepancies in the sacred writers imposes
no special responsibilities, on the score of reconciling them,
on him who makes it. Why should it? He did not write
the Bible, nor can he have any peculiar personal interest in
bringing its dicta to a tally which does not pertain equally
to all his brethren. Here then is an emergency where our
argument necessarily ceases to present any thing of an
antagonistic attitude to the previous impressions of the
reader, and we are respectively called upon to unite our
efforts to clear up the difficulty. There must doubtless be
some way of harmonizing texts apparently in conflict, and
to the discovery of this our readers are as much called as
we are. If the conclusions and deductions on the present
subject be true, that truth is as much their truth as it is
ours, and they are equally chargeable with all the conse­
quences that legitimately flow from it. In attempting then
to reconcile the apparently variant testimony of those Scrip­
tures which are affected by them, we are to make common
cause, to bring our resources to bear unitedly on the solus
tioft of the problems, and to corns if possible tQ such a result
11*
Digitized by Google
2 3 8 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
as shall leave both revelation and reason unscathed by the
ordeal. As a farther contribution of our own to this end
we observe,
(3.) That without acceding, to the full extent, to the
canons of interpretation adopted in the accommodation
school of Semler and others in Germany, we may still ad­
mit that the principle is to be in some degree recognized in
the didactic procedures of Christ and the apostles. Cer­
tain it is, that no one whoattentively scans the distinguish­
ing features of the Gospel can affirm that it is constructed
on the principle of an open, absolute, and unequivocal ex­
pose of the great moral truths which take hold of man’s
future destiny. We perceive all along a constant running
reference to the doctrines and sentiments imbibed by the
Jews from their Scriptures, which were undoubtedly an
imperfect revelation of the entire body of truth that God de­
signed should eventually find its lodgment in the human
mind. The interior sense of many shaded prophecies relating
to the person, work, and kingdom of the Messiah, was unques­
tionably very fully laid open; but many others, and more es­
pecially those relating to the ulterior destinies of man and
of the globe which he inhabits, were left enveloped in the
symbolical mantle which was only to be removed by the
onward progress of time and providence. Thus it is indis­
putable that, in regard to the precise details of the future
allotment of the two great classes of the righteous and the
wicked, neither Christ nor his apostles were in the habit of
uttering themselves in the language of such ample verity as
entirely to dispel the clouds which hung over it So also
of the great events of the resurrection, the judgment, and
the second advent. The announcements made were suffi­
cient to exert all requisite moral influence, while they still
came short of affording that satisfaction to the understand­
ing which it so earnestly craves. As the New Testament
is built upon the Old, of which it is rather the fulfilment
than the abrogation, nothing was more natural than that it
Digitized by Google
T H B SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 239
should abound from beginning to end with allusions, some­
times plain, sometimes latent, to the writings of Moses and
the prophets. These allusions will be found to be continu­
ally multiplying upon one who enters upon the careful
study of the two Testaments in the original languages. A
thousand hidden links of connexion, which escape the eye
of the reader of any of the versions, disclose themselves as
he proceeds. The present we cannot but regard as an in­
stance in point. It is to us unquestionable that the Saviour
had in his eye the ofl-quoted passage of Daniel, 12. 2 : “ And
many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake;
some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting
contempt.” The phraseology is indeed somewhat varied,
but the general identity of import is obvious. This, as ut­
tered by Daniel, was a prophecy which was certainly to be
fulfilled. Whatever were its true meaning, it could not fail
of accomplishment. Why then may we not suppose that
our Saviour’s words were a mere re-affirmation, in some­
what varied terms, of this great truth of their own Scrip­
tures ? If so, was it necessary that he should at the same
time act the expositor and lay open in all its details the ex­
act mode of the accomplishment? It evidently in its con­
nexions in Daniel forms a part of a very obscure prediction
respecting a future period, when Michael, the great Prince,
should stand up for the children of the prophet’s people.
It was one of those predictions which it would seem was
only to be developed by the actual fulfilment. May not our
Saviour then be considered as having simply re-echoed the
announcement, without professing to give any other addi­
tional light respecting it than what concerned the divine
Agent by whom it was to be effected, with perhaps the la­
tent intimation that the time was even then impending, to
which the spirit of prophecy had at least a partial reference
in inditing it? Some countenance we think is given to
this idea by the form of the expression which he employs—
“ The hour is coming when all they,” & c. It can,
Digitized by Googk
2 4 0 THE DOCTRINE Or THE RESURRECTION.
not be questioned that this is usually the phrase to denote
an event, or order of events, ju st upon the eve o f occurring ;
whereas, if he had intended to point forward to a very dis­
tant future, it is not easy to perceive why he should not
have said, “ the hour will come (eXivaiiai),” not to mention
that the word ‘ hour ’ seems to imply a season contracted
within narrower limits than those which we should assign
to such an event as is usually understood by the general
resurrection. Still we do not insist upon an explanation
giving this shade of meaning. It may be well founded, and
it may not. But the main idea we deem entitled to atten­
tion. That the words contain an allusion of some sort to
the kindred passage of Daniel, we think cannot be ques­
tioned. And yet, as it is clear upon reference to Daniel
that he does not speak of a general resurrection at the end
of the world, it seems to be forcing our Saviour’s language
to assign to it that as its true scope. Why is it not suffi­
cient to understand him as saying in effect, “ Marvel not at
what I have just said, for the time is coming when the
event predicted by the prophet Daniel, whatever or when­
ever it shall be, shall be accomplished, and that too through
my agency, to whom the Father hath given a quickening
power, however lightly jny claims may now be regarded "1
This strikes us as a view accordant with the general
analogy of the Saviour’s teachings, and in no way deroga­
tory to his character as a truthful messenger from heaven.
It cannot, we think, be shown that any moral obligation
rested upon him to declare all the truth respecting the mean­
ing of the ancient prophecies, nor at once to correct or pre­
vent all the errors of his people on that score. As prophe­
cy was designed to be of progressive development, the time
would eventually come when every prediction would receive
a perfect explanation from a perfect fulfilment. Even fram­
ed as it is, the declaration may be understood to yield an
important truth in accordance with the view we have pre­
sented. For true it unquestionably is, that all those whose
yGoogk
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 4 1
bodies are consigned to the sepulchre emerge from their de­
funct state, in obedience to the voice of him who has the
keys o f death and hell, into a sphere of existence where,
according to their works, they are either crowned with life
everlasting, or doomed to a judgment of wrath without end.
If this be intrinsically true, it is certain that our Saviour’s
words cannot teach the oootrary; and if they do not mean
this, they must mean something consistent with it. If the
truth is not to be harmonized with itself in this way, let him
who can, suggest another and a better.
John VI. 39, 40.
G R .
T o v t o S é i a t i t o Q s k tjfia t o v
n t f i t p a v r o ç f u i t a t q b f , tv a n ä v
o S s S o a x é fto t, fit] à n o l t o a ï|
a v t o v , à i i à à v a a t i t a<o a v t o
i t ttj io ^a tfi ijfitQtt.
Tovto yàç ¿oti to d'ù.tjfia
tov fiffiipavtoe ftt, Ira. nâÿ o
&SWQÔÎV tov viov xai mattvtav
«(Vavtov rjrj JwJ)*' alwnov, xal
avaarijaa avtov èyà r j e
’dya-
tr j r in tq a .
E N G . V E R S .
And this is the Father’s w ill
which hath sent me, that of all
which he hath given me, I
should lose nothing, but should
raise it up again at the last
day.
And this is the w ill of him
that sent me, that every one
which seeth the Son, and be-
lieveth on him, may have ever­
lasting life: and I will raise him
up at the last day.
The same declaration in substance or in form occurs, v.
44, 54. It certainly denotes the resurrection of those who
believed in him, and, according to the letter, a resurrection
within the limits of a certain period, denominated here ‘ the
last day.’ An equivalent allusion to this day occurs also, ch.
12. 48: “ The word that I have spoken, the same shall judge
him at the last day." That the expression is conformed to
the usual mode in which the resurrection of the righteous
was spoken of among the Jews, is also unquestionable. Still
we cannot deem ourselves precluded from referring again to
the principle, somewhat fully developed on a previous page
(p. 238), on which many things in our Lord’s addresses to the
J«w* are to be interpreted, It cannot be denied that, with­
Digitized by Google
2 4 2 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
out sacrificing or compromising any substantial truth, he did
still, on many occasions, adapt the style of his discourse to
the notions then prevalent, and which were grounded, in the
main, upon the literal record of their Scriptures. Although
the traditional interpretations put upon these Scriptures
were, in many instances wrong, yet it obviously did not
enter his purposes invariably to set his hearers right in re­
spect to them. Nor can we conceive of his having done so
without thereby shocking their prejudices to a degree that
would have prevented their reception of his doctrines, not to
remark that he could scarcely otherwise have made himself
intelligible to them.* That this principle, in reference to
* “ But is this agreeable to the character of inspired persons, to make
nse of arguments not conclusive, or to argue with others from what they
know to be a false sense of Scripture ? I answer, that so many and
strong were the prejudices that the Jews labored under, as made their
conversion to Christianity exceeding difficult, and therefore rendered it
the more necessary that they should be dealt with in a very tender man­
ner. Particular truths were to be told them as they were able to bear,
and their prejudices were to be gradually removed by a prudent forbear­
ance. The apostles of our blessed Saviour could not but remember his
conduct towards themselves, and acknowledge both the wisdom and good­
ness of i t ; and had therefore reason to believe, that the same method of
acting towards others might have a good influence over them. They
did not indeed conceal the main and essential doctrines of Christianity,
how much soever those to whom they preached might be offended with
them. But as for other matters of lesser importance, the interpretation
of a single passage of Scripture, for instance, supposing them mistaken,
was it necessary they should be immediately contradicted 1 Or rather,
was it not prudent to leave it to time and better knowledge to correct it?
Or ought the apostles to have neglected to show them how such and such
a passage was accomplished in Jesus Christ, if they fairly could doit, and
those to whom they preached expected it 1
“ If these, indeed, were the only topics they argued from, I should
suspect their inspiration, and their testimony would deserve but little
credit. But since there are but few instances ofthis kind, and the apos­
tles lay but little stress upon such citations ; and, at the same time they
make use of them, lay down other solid and substantial proofs of the trutl|
Digitized by Google
T H B SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 4 3
the interpretation of the New Testament, is to be applied
with special guards and limitations, we may certainly ad-
ofChristianity, such as the certainty of Christ’s miracles and resurrec­
tion, the excellency of his doctrines, and the certain accomplishments of
real prophecies, as this was a rational method of converting them to the
Christian faith, so the other was but a prudent means of preventing the ill
effects of their prejudices; and all that will follow from this way of arguing
in the apostles is, not that they endeavoured to build Christianity on a false
foundation,but that, as they established the truth of it by undeniable proofs,
sothey took all the best care they could to secure to them their proper in­
fluence and force. Indeed such a method of arguing as this is not to be
looked upon as any proper proof, nor is it ever designed as such by those
who make a just use of it. It is rather an appeal to a person’s present
sentiments, and taking the advantage of his own concessions. This ’tis
true, would be unworthy a wise or a good man, if there were no argu­
ments of intrinsick worth made use of; but where the thing to be proved
is supported by solid reasons, I see nothing to forbid our appealing to a
person’s avowed sentiments, where a fair advantage can be made of i t ;
especially, as by thus complying for a while with an innocent prejudice,
we take the most effectual way hereafter to remove it. For he who uses
this method of arguing with another, doth not hereby avow the truth of
the principles he argues from ; and therefore cannot be said to confirm
him inhis prejudice or mistake ; tho’at the same time it must be allowed,
he doth not endeavour to undeceive him. But is it necessary that, when
we argue with any person to convince him of any particular truth, we
must immediately also endeavour to undeceive him ofeverymistake 1 Is
it not the more rational and just way, first to establish him in the belief
of the things that are of greater importance ; and when by the force of
evidence he is gained thus far, lesser mistakes will be more easily removed,
and truth of every sort will have the more free access to his understand­
ing and belief. Supposing then that passage of Hosea, ‘ Out of Egypt
hate I called m y son,’ had not original reference to the Messiah, but was
only interpreted so to have by the Jews at that time ; how were they to
be treated under such a perswasion 1 Had the apostles of Jesus Christ
immediately denied the reference of this prophecy to the Messiah, the
Jews possibly would have answered, the reason was, because there was
nothing in his character to answer to it; and so would have continued
unbelievers, under the pretence that Scripture prophecies were not suffi­
cientlyaccomplished in him. Was it not therefore expedient, that if there
wu any remarkable event in our Saviour’s life that did properly corres-
Digitized by Google
mit; nevertheless, the principle in itself is s sonnd one,
and there is no reason that we should be deterred from ap­
pealing to it, because it may be or has been pressed beyond
its legitimate uses. When our Saviour, for instance, says,
Mat. 12. 27, “ If I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom
do your children cast them out V’ are we to suppose that
he intended to sanction the common belief, that such exor­
cisms were actually performed at that time by others than his
own disciples 1 The conceit was rife among the people that
such teas indeed the case, and our Lord simply adopted the
argument ex concessis, without intimating whether the pop­
ular belief had a ground of truth or not.*
* The same remark
applies to a subsequent part of the same conversation, where
he speaks of an evil spirit going out of a man, wandering
over waste and dry places, and finally returning reinforced
by a company of other spirits worse than himself, and taking
possession of his old habitation. This surely does not im­
ply the absolute truth of such a representation, but is merely
a specimen of his adapting his teachings to prevalent ideas.
So also in regard to the use of a variety of terms which
were in vogue among the Jews at that time, and to which they
doubtless hffixed a meaning that was not perfectly accord­
ant with truth. The words spirit, soul, heaven, hell, &.C.,
undoubtedly conveyed, in their popular usage, ideas that
would not stand the test of absolute truth. Yet our Sav­
iour used them without intimating that he did it in any
other than the common acceptation. So also in regard to
the phrases ‘ world ’—‘ world to come ’—‘ end of the world,’
2 4 4 TH E DOOTE1HK OF TH E M M JBB E CT IO N .
pond with the sense ofthat passage, it should be pointed out to the Jews 1
Or was there any thing of untruth in saying, if that was a prophecy of the
Messiah, then thus is the Scripture fulfilled ; or this event is the accom­
plishment of that prophecy 1” Chandler’s Vindie. pp. 366-370.
• “ The words of Christ here do not prove that they had actually the
power of casting out devils, but only that they clam ed it, and practised
magic or jugglsrg." Barnes in loc.
yGoogk
TBK »CkIFTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 4 6
— there is no evidence that he did not employ them as they
were generally understood. So in the present case we rest
in the conclusion, that our Lord spake on the subject of the
resurrection in accordance with the sentiments and the dic­
tion then prevalent, and that his words are not to be regard­
ed as a criterion of the absolute truth of the current doctrine.
Y et that they are not so very far from absolute truth will ap­
pear from a rigid inquest into the import of the words them­
selves : “ I will raise him up at the last day.” Now it will not
be m aintained that the body alone constitues the person. In
fact, w e have seen that the material body is a mere append­
age to the real man. But it is the man—‘ him ’—that is to
be raised, and as we are elsewhere expressly assured that
that w hich constitutes the essence of the person never dies__
“ he th a t liveth and believeth on me shall never die ”—we are
undoubtedly forced to predicate the ‘ raising ’ of that which
is th e subject of living. The man appears to die with the
death o f the body, but in reality he lives an indestructible
life, and while at his exit from the body he does in truth
enter into a resurrection state, yet this is invisible to mortal
ey es; and therefore the resurrection itself is spoken of as
deferred to the period of the manifestation of the risen
dead, to that great era of development when the veil shall
be removed from the spiritual world, and Christ and his
glorified church shall be disclosed to an admiring universe.
Into this unnumbered congregation the departing saints are
continually being transferred one by one ; but when the num­
ber is complete, and the divine economy which has secured
their redemption is brought to a close, then shall they shine
forth as the brightness of the sun in the firmament, and as the
stars, for ever and ever. This is the day for which the whole
creation groans and travails together in pain, for which it
longs and looks forward as with outstretched neck ; and, in
view of the difficulties which encumber every other solution,
we see no valid objection to understanding the Saviour’s
words in this sense.
Digitized by Google
2 4 0 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
J o h n X I. 21-26.
O R .
Élm v ovr r¡ Magda ng'og
t
o
y’Iqaovv • xvgts, si t¡g ads,
ó àdsXyôg pov ovx av ire& rtj-
xsi.
’A lla xaí vD
e oída, on, ocra
«v aiii¡<yr¡ to r dsor dásst aoi
ó 9sóg.
A iysi avTT¡ 6 'Iqcsovg • ava-
<sit¡aeiai ó àdel.rpog aov.
Asysi avia} Magda • oída,
on àraazrjoetai ir rg àra-
aiàau ir ir¡ soyárq qfttga.
Elner avilj o ’Jqaovg• iyá
slpi r¡ áráoraotg xa). r¡ Ç
air¡ • ó
m aisvar tlg i¡is, xar artodá-
rr¡ Çqasiat.
K a l nag b Çâr xai nvnsv-
a r sig ifts ov fi'r¡ ánodárg slg
■tor alara, maisvug r ovio ;
EN G . V E R S .
Then Martha said unto Je­
sus, Lord, if thou hadst been
here, my brother had not died.
But I know that even now,
whatsoever thou w ilt ask of
God, God will give it thee.
Jesus saith unto her, Thy
brother shall rise again.
Martha saith unto him, I
know that he shall rise again
in the resurrection at the last
day. •
Jesus saith unto her, I am
the resurrection and the life:
he that believeth in me, though
he were dead, yet shall he live:
And whosoever liveth and
believeth in me, shall never die.
Believest thou this ?
This is a passage of similar import with the preceding,
and is to be construed on the same principle. The words
of Martha evince that she merely echoed the general senti­
ment of the age, and perhaps of former ages, in declaring
the expectation that her brother would rise at the last day.
Our Lord does not, indeed, in so many words assure her
that her belief was founded upon an incorrect view of
the truth; at the same time, upon a closer view of the Sav­
iour’s language, we cannot easily resist the impression, that
he actually designed to correct something that was errone­
ous, or at least inadequate, in her belief. On any other
supposition let us see how the discourse, proceeds. Martha
tells Jesus that she has no doubt that her brother will rise at
the last day ; and he, admitting and approving the sentiment,
replies, ‘ I am the resurrection and the life,’ intimating, on
this construction, that what she said was very true, that at
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 4 7
the last day he should raise her brother to an immortal life.
Hethen proceeds, advancing in some way upon what he had
just said, and informs her that all dead Christians shall live
again, and that no living Christian shall die forever. But
upon this view of the passage, what has he said but what
Martha had already told him that she knew? For surely, if
she knew that Lazarus should rise again at the last day, she
must, upon the same grounds, have known that every de­
ceased Christian would also rise at the last day, and that no
living Christian would die forever. This sense seems, in
fact, to be precluded by the question which Christ immedi­
ately proposes, ‘ Believest thou this?’ Can we suppose he
would spend so many words to' tell Martha what she already
knew, and then, after all, ask her whether she believed
this?
The following, then, we conceive to be a much juster
interpretation. Our Lord really designs, by imparting to her
the true nature of the resurrection, to inform her also that
that ‘last day,’ which she was expecting, had even now in
effect come, and therefore that there was no reason why she
should give way to sorrow, or even despair of having her bro­
ther restored to her. He tells her, ‘ Hethatbelieveth in me,
though he should die, as your brother now seems to have
done, yet, in fact, it is little more than an illusion on the
senses; he still lives to every high and real purpose of exist­
ence. Nor is this all; every living man that believes in me
shall, in fact, never die. Although, indeed, he may be call­
ed in God’s time to put off the mortal body, and though you
may call this death, yet, in truth, it is a change scarcely
worth the name. Of his conscious, active, and happy being
there is no interruption at all for ever. If such, then, be the
true state of the case in regard to departed believers— if they
really emerge in full life and consciousness from the dying
body into the resurrection-state—why imagine the resurrec­
tion to he deferred to some distant future period called ‘ the
last day ?’ Believest thou, Martha, what I say ? If so, you
perceive you have little occasion to grieve for your deceased
Digitized by Googk
brother ; nevertheless, as the mere réanimation of the life­
less corpse is a comparatively trifling work of Omnipotence,
your brother shall even note rise again.” Here, doubtless,
was much new and important doctrine, in regard to which
it might very properly be asked of Martha, ‘ Believest thou
this Y*
*
3 4 8 TH E DOCTRINE OP TH E RESURRECTION.
* The following paraphrase expresses so happily and, as we conceive,
socorrectly, the drift of our Lord’s conversation with Martha, that we give
it in this connexion:
“ As soon as she heard that Jesus was come, Martha ran out to meet
him, and said unto him, ‘ Lord, we sent to inform thee that Lazarus was
dangerously ill; we thought the intelligence might have reached thee
earlier: fluctuating between hopeand apprehension, we counted the hours
in anxious expectation of thy arrival, till at length Lazarus expired. If
thou hadst been here, we had not been afflicted thus; for surely that heal­
ing power which we know has so often been employed for strangers in
distress, would not have been withheld by thee firm the family of thy
chosen friend. It is too late to save him from death, but still perhaps not
too late to restore him to life ; for whatsoever thou shalt ask of God, I am
persuaded God will grant it to thee.’ Jesus saith unto her, ‘ Martha, be
composed ; thy brother is not lost to thee for ever : though he has fall­
en under the stroke ofdepth, be will rise again.’ Martha saith unto him,
*Ah, Lord, at the last day, I know; but this was not what I was
thinking of and wishing ; without thy help he it lost to us till then.’
• It is true, Martha,’ replied Jesus, ‘ that there are instances in which the
dead have been restored by me ; and if my friendship were to desire the
interposition of the Divine Power, you might reasonably expect, perhaps,
that such a miracle would be renewed in your behalf; but you know that I
have brought light and immortality to light; and had you duly attended to
my doctrine on the subject, you could hardly have been so much agitated
and so disconsolate as you are. Let me tell you, that he that believeth in
me, when he has died, will live ; death is no detriment to him ; he will not
be hurt by that revolution ofhis being. And let me add, too, however much
it may astonish you, and however different it may be from your present
apprehensions, that every faithful living Christian in reality shall never die.
Did you call these things to mind, Martha, when you were so anxious for
my arrival to prevent your brother’s death 1 Do you feel these things as
you ought, while you are so earnestly wishing my interposition to raise
him out of his grave ? You have not understood me, or you have not
believed me as you ought: Martha, how is this 1 Believest thou the««
things now ?’” C affe’* Crit. Rem •on N . Test., VoL II. p. 336.
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 249
O ne thing, we think, is to be admitted as beyond ques­
tion, that if, as we have endeavored to show, the general
tenor of Scripture is adverse to the idea of a resurrection so
long delayed, the true sense of the Saviour’s language can­
not bear that interpretation ; for Jerome has well remarked
that “ the sense of Scripture is the Scripture, and not the
mere words,” and certainly the true sense of Revelation must
accord with the truth of any subject on which it treats.*
Acts II. 29-35.
- OR-
"AvSçeç ddeXcpot, il-ov eùzeïv
¡sera TiaoçrjaÎKi tzçoç vfiäg ne-
Qi rov najQiaQxov Javtd, ou
xai ¿reXevzijae xal izâçprj, xal
to ftvÿfia avrov èariv lv Tjftiv
5%Qt Tqç quéçag ravzrjç.
Jlgoep^tiis ovv vndç^tov, xal
eidoag, ou oçxqs wftoaer avzép
à &toç ix xaQnov Ttji oaqivoÿ
avrov Tb xarà adçxa àvaarrj-
oetv top Xçtarov, xaûtaai inl
rov &
QOVOV avrov.
ÜQOÏSàv iXdXzjae ?régi rrjs
avaardaezog rov Xçtarov, ou
oi xareXu'yûrj tj xpvjrii avrov
eig aSov, ovds 1
7 oàç| avrov
eide diaç&oçdv.
T avrov rov Tqaovv àvéaztj-
oev o &e6g, ov ndvreg fjfreîg
eafiev /tdçrvçeg.
e n g . v e r s .
Men and brethren, let me
freely speak unto you of the pa­
triarch David, that he is both
dead and buried, and his sepul­
chre is with us unto this day.
Therefore being a prophet,
and knowing that God had
sworn with an oath to him,
that of the fruit of his loins, ac­
cording to the flesh, he would
raise up Christ to sit on his
throne;
He seeing this before, spake
of the resurrection of Christ,
that his soul was not left in
hell, neither did his flesh see
corruption.
This Jesus hath God raised
up, whereof we are all wit­
nesses.
* It deserves very serious inquiry on the part of philologists whether
the clause in the 25th verse should not be translated—" He that believeth
in me though he should die (jtlv dnSarj), yet shall he live.” Without
positively denying the correctness of the present version—" though he
were dead we still think the evidence preponderates in favor of the
other. Indeed, we have not been able to find a single instance in the
New Testament where the ward is otherwise rendered.
Digitized by Google
2 5 0 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
T jj dehn ovr t o v &eov inpco-
rr¡v t í ênayyeXtav t o v
áyíov nveiftaiog Xaßoiv naga
t o v naiqóg, i^éyes t o v t o , o
vvv vfirfí ßliireie xa) ¿xovet í.
Ov yaq Aavid avt’ßr; elg
t o v ç ovqavot'v , leyes de avTog"
elnev ó xvqiog Tw xvqóq fiOV
xá&ov t’x ôi|itôv fiov,1
" E m e a * t o v ç tyO-govg
aov vnonóSiov t w v nodwv aov.
Therefore being by the right
hand of God exalted, and hav­
ing received of the Father the
romise of the Holy Ghost, he
ath shed forth this, which ye
now see and hear.
For David is not ascended
into the heavens, but he sailh
of himself, The Lord said unto
my Lord, Sit thou on my right
hand,
Until 1 make thy foes thy
footstool.
On these words Mr. Barnes remarks, that they “ do not
affirm that David was not saved, or that his spirit had not
ascended to heaven, but that he had not been exalted in the
heavens, in the sense in which Peter was speaking of the
Messiah.” This is doubtless a very correct remark. That
the word ‘ ascended,’ in this connexion, implies a glorious
exaltation, is evident from the ensuing clause, the scope of
which is this:—“ If David were the real person of whom
this resurrection and ascension were predicted, it would fol­
low, as a matter of course, that David would be the person
to take his seat at the right hand of God, for the ascension
and the session are inseparable prerogatives that must neces­
sarily meet in the same person. But how does this agree
with the matter of fact 1 How does it agree with David’s
own words in another Psalm ? Does he speak of himself as
destined to this high pre-eminence? So far from it that he
expressly affirms, “ The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou
at my right hand,” &c. As, then, the sitting at the right
hand of the Majesty on high did not pertain to David, so of
course neither could the ascension here spoken of. This is
entirely in accordance with our Saviour’s words, John 3.13:
“ No man hath ascended up into heaven, but he that came
down from heaven, even the Son of man, who is in heaven.”
That is, no man hath been the subject of such a glorious
exaltation as pertains to the Son of man alone.
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 5 1
This is clearly the scope of the passage, and conse­
quently it cannot be cited as having an import adverse to
that of the general mass of Scripture testimony on the sub­
ject. T he denial of a public, official, and glorious ascen­
sion, in respect to David’s disembodied spirit, does not in­
volve a denial of his real, though unseen, translation from a
body which had long since mouldered away, into the man­
sions of all beatified spirits. The apostle certainly did not
mean to say that that which constituted the actual and es­
sential ipseity or selfhood of David, was then reposing in
the sepulchre at Jerusalem. But if not there, where was it,
and in what condition ? Must it not have been in the state
common to all those of kindred character ?—and if this
were-a state which is the result of the established and uni­
form laws of human existence, is any exception to be sup­
posed in the case of David? So far, then, as the proof is
valid that this is a resurrection-state, so far is the proof from
this passage invalid, that Peter denies a real resurrection of
David, or, by inference, of any one else, at the time of his
death.
Acts X X IV . 14, 15.
GR.
'Oftoloyai de to vro aoi, o n
w a tjjp ¿dor, Xiyovon as-
Qian, ovrco Xa-iQtvfa rip n a-
iQtpcj) Oi<p, m a te iu v naauoTg
sat a. top voftor xut tV tow
ttQoqn'iJous yiyqapftetoig.
’£1.71iSa e y w p elg t o p {hot,
i» xut avrol o lro i tSQOgdi’xor-
r<u, ardaraan ftiXXtn taea&at
rexQar, dixaiorr re xat adi-
xwp.
ENG. VERS.
But this I confess unto thee,
that after the way which they
call heresy, so worship I the
God of my fathers, believing
all things which are written in
the law and in the prophets:
And have hope toward God,
which they themselves also al­
low, that there shall be a resur­
rection of the dead, both of the
just, and the unjust.
A problem of a twofold solution is here presented to us.
First, upon what authority does Paul affirm that the Phar­
isees believed in a resurrection “ both of the just and the
Digitized by Googk
262 TBE DOCTKINE OF TBE RESURRECTION.
unjust?” Secondly, supposing the assertion to be well
founded, how are his words to be construed in consistency
with what we assume to be the true doctrine of the Scrip­
tures on this subject? We must certainly admit that the
unequivocal assertion of an inspired apostle carries with it
a •primé, facie evidence of conveying an absolute truth. Yet
when such an assertion relates to a matter of historical fact,
on which we have other sources of information, we are,
doubtless, at liberty freely to inquire how far the assertion is
sustained by authentic records, and in what way any appa­
rent discrepancy between them is to be reconciled. We do not
conceive that the simple declaration even of an inspired man,
on a subject of this nature, is a necessary foreclosure of all
inquiry into its grounds. In regard to the present point, we
think the evidence is conclusive that the Pharisees, as a
body, did not hold to the resurrection of the wicked. So far
as their creed on this subject was built upon the revelations
of the Old Testament Scriptures, we have already seen that,
although they recognize the fact of the future existence of
all men, the wicked as well as the righteous, yet that ot the
former they do not dignify with the title of resurrection; and
in the New Testament we find but two or three passages
which speak at all distinctly on the subject, and even they
are capable of a construction consistent with the general
style in which the doctrine is announced, as the special and
distinguishing privilege of the children of God. We have,
moreover, the testimony of Josephus in two remarkable
passages, than which nothing can be more express. “ They
(the Pharisees) also believe that souls have an immortal
vigor in them, and that under the earth there will be re­
wards and punishments, according as they have lived virtu­
ously or viciously in this life ; and the latter are to he detain­
ed in an everlasting prison,but that theformer shallhavepower
to revive and live again.” (J. A., L. xvm. c. 1.) Again,
“ They say that all souls are incorruptible; but that the soul
o f the good man only passes into another body, while that of
Digitized by Google
the wicked is suited to etsmal punishment,’’ (J. W., L. n
c. 8).*
O ther testimony to this effect from Jewish sources may
easily be adduced. Thus R. David Kirachi, in comment­
ing on the first Psalm, remarks, “ The benefit of the rain
is common to the just and the unjust, but the resurrection
of the dead is the peculiar privilege of those who have lived
righteously.” Thus too R. Moses Gerundensis, “ No one
can be partaker of an interest in the world to come, but the
souls only of just men, separated from their body, shall en­
ter into it.” R. Menasseh Ben Israel, in his treatise on
the Resurrection of the Dead, speaks to the same effect.
(B. II. c. 8.) “ From the mind and opinion then of all
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 6 3
* I t i s u p o n t h e w a r r a n t o f t h i s t e x t a l o n e t h a t J o s e p h u s h a s b e e n
c h a r g e d w i t h a t t r i b u t i n g to t h e P h a r i s e e s a d o c t r i n e b u t l i t t l e r e m o v e d
f r o m t h e P y t h a g o r e a n t r a n s m i g a t i o n o f s o u l s . B u t i t i s o b v i o u s t h a t t h e
p h r a s e sarafiaivciv tis iripon adjia, to pats into another body, n e c e s s a r i l y
i m p l i e s n o s u c h i d e a s . I t y i e l d s a s r e a d i l y t h e s e n s e o f a t r a n s l a t i o n o f t h e
s o u l i n t o a n e t h e r e a l o r s p i r i t u a l b o d y , B u c h a s w e h a v e e n d e a v o r e d t o
s h o w i s t a u g h t b y t h e u n i t e d v o i c e o f s o u n d r e a s o n i n g a n d s o u n d h e r m e ­
n e u t i c s . O n t h i s , a s o n o t h e r p o i n t s , g l e a m s o f t h e t r u t h a p p e a r a t a n a g e
w h e n w e s h o u l d s c a r c e l y h a v e e x p e c t e d t h e m . T h u s , f o r i n s t a n c e , i t a p ­
p e a r s f r o m t h e f o l l o w i n g e x t r a c t f r o m J u s t i n M a r t y r ’s D i a l o g u e w i t h T r y -
p h o , t h a t e v e n i n t h a t e a r l y a g e t h e r e w e r e s o m e w h o c a m e v e r y n e a r to
w h a t w e c o n s i d e r t h e t r u e d o c t r i n e o n t h i s s u b j e c t , a n d y e t i t i s e v i d e n t
t h a t t h e i r s e n t i m e n t s w e r e s o f a r f r o m t h o s e g e n e r a l l y h e l d , t h a t t h e y w e r e
a c c o u n t e d h e r e t i c a l :— “ I f y o u h a v e m e t w i t h c e r t a i n p e r s o n s , c a l l e d C h r i s ­
t i a n s , w h o d o n o t c o n f e s s t h i s , b u t h a v e t h e b o l d n e s s t o b l a s p h e m e t h e G o d o f
A b r a h a m , t h e G o d o f I s a a c , a n d t h e G o d o f J a c o b , a n d w h o s a y t h a t t h e r e i s
n o r e s u r r e c t i o n o f t h e d e a d , but that immediately on death the soul is re­
ceived up intotheaven, d o n o t c o n s i d e r t h e m a s C h r i s t i a n s , a n y m o r e t h a n ,
p r o p e r l y s p e a k i n g , y o u w o u l d g i v e t h e n a m e o f J e w s t o t h e S a d d u c e e s ,
a n d o t h e r h e r e t i c a l s e c t s . . . . I , h o w e v e r , a n d a s m a n y a s a r e a l t o ­
g e t h e r o r t h o d o x , b e li e v e t h a t t h e r e w i l l b e a resurrection o f the flesh, a n d
a M i l l e n n i u m i n J e r u s a l e m r e s t o r e d , a d o r n e d , a n d e n l a r g e d , a c c o r d i n g to
t h e p r e d i c t i o n s o f I s a i a h , E z e k i e l , a n d t h e o t h e r p r o p h e t s . ” T h e s e ‘ h e r e ­
t i c s ’ w o u l d s e e m t o h a v e h e ld t h a t a r e s u r r e c t i o n m i g h t p r o p e r l y b e s a i d
t o t a k e p l a c e u p o n t h e s o u l ’s l e a v i n g t h e b o d y , b u t a s t h e o p i n io n h a d t h e n
12
Digitized by Google
254 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
the 'ancieuts, we conclude that there will not be a general
resurrection of the dead, and one common to all men and
in proof of it cites the well known passage in Daniel,
“ Many of them that sleep in the dust,” &,c., where he
says the ‘ many ’ cannot mean ‘ all.’ Pococke, in his Notes
on the “ Porta Mosis” of Maimonides, has accumulated a
large mass of evidence from the Rabbinical writers going
to establish the same position, and Eisenmenger, in his
“ Endectes Judenthum’s,” has furnished many more. There
seems, therefore, no room to question that the general senti­
ments of the Pharisees in all ages have been adverse to the
doctrine of the resurrection of the wicked, and this view we
have seen to be countenanced by the prevailing usage of
the Scriptures. At the same time it is equally clear that
the sect was not unanimous in this opinion. The writers
above mentioned, and many others who might be named,
afford evidence that the belief has ever to some extent ob­
tained among them, that the resurrection will include all
men without exception, and of this fact the apostle, in the
passage before us, doubtless takes advantage, and in a dis­
pute between the Pharisees and Sadducees, w^hout denying
that he is a Christian, affirms that, as touching the future
destiny of man, he takes side with the former.' This he
might properly do, although aware that on this particular
theme they were not all of one mind—nay, although the
majority of them, as was doubtless the case, held the oppo­
site sentiment.
o b t a i n e d f o o t i n g , t h a t t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n n e c e s s a r i l y i m p l i e d ‘ t h e r e s u r r e c ­
t i o n o f t h e f l e s h / t h e o p p o s i n g v i e w w a s a t o n c e o s t r a c i z e d f r o m t h e p a le
o f o r t h o d o x y . T h e t r u e g r o u n d o f t h i s w a s e v i d e n t l y t h e p r e v a l e n c e o f
M i l l e n a r i a n d o c t r i n e . T h a t d o c t r i n e h a s b e e n f r o m t h a t d a y t o t h i s t h e g r a n d
s u p p o r t o f t h e c r a s s c o n c e p t i o n s w h i c h h a v e b e e n e n t e r t a i n e d o n t h e s u b ­
j e c t o f t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n . T h e l e g i t i m a t e p r o d u c t o f t h i s t h e o r y is th e
sleep of the soul d u r i n g t h e i n t e r v a l b e t w e e n d e a t h a n d t h e r e s u r r e c t io n ,
a l t h o u g h , p e r h a p s , n o t o f t e n e x p r e s s l y a d m i t t e d . I t p l a i n l y d i s c o v e r s its e lf,
h o w e v e r , i n t h e a b o v e e x t r a c t f r o m J u s t i n , a n d a s t r i c t i n t e r r o g a t i o n o f
M i l l e n a r i a n i s m i n a ll a g e s w o u l d e l i c i t t h e s a m e b e lie f .
Digitized by Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 355
As to the second question, therefore, how the apostle’s
words are to be understood consistently with the dom­
inant teaching of reason and revelation on this subject, there
can be no doubt that he would conform his averments to
those of Christ. These, we have already seen, when con­
sidered in the letter, announced, in some cases, the resur­
rection of the wicked as well as that of the righteous. How
his language is to be interpreted in accordance with truth,
we have previously endeavored to show. The same prin­
ciples that apply to the construction of his language must of
course apply to that of the apostle. In explaining the one,
we have explained the other. We have shown, if we mis­
take not, that our Saviour’s declaration, while based upon
certain familiar usages of speech to be found in the sacred
writers, is, at the same time, capable of an interpretation
which will not bring it into conflict with those conclusions
that, on other grounds, both of Scripture and science, we
cannot avoid forming. Those explanations it will not be
necessary to repeat in this connexion.
R om. VIII. 10. 11.
GR-
E l 8e Xgiazop iv bfiiv, to
fuv otofict vexgov 8i afiagriav,
to 8e nvEVfta £(oi] 8ia dixouo-
avvijv. '
E l 8s to nvtvfia tov iyelgav-
t o s ’Itioovv ix vexgmv oixtl iv
v/iiv, o iyelgas zov Xgtazov ex
vexgeov Q(oonoiT(oe(xal za &vt(-
za ooifiuza vfiav 8ia zb ivoi-
xovv avzov tivevfia iv vfiiv.
ENG. VERS.
And if Christ be in you, the
body is dead because of sin;
but the Spirit is life because of
righteousness.
But if the Spirit of him that
raised up Jesus from the dead
dwell in you, he that raised up
Christ from the dead, shall also
quicken your mortal bodies by
his Spirit that dwelleth in you.
Nothing is more obvious to the careful reader of this and
the other epistles of Paul, than that the term ‘body’ is used in
a somewhat figurative sense to denote not so much the phys­
ical organization in distinction from the soul, as the body
considered as the seat and subject of moral corruption, and
-Oxidized by Googk
3 6 « TH1 DOCTEIM* OT T E * EESOBEECTION.
thu* set in opposition to the spiritual or renewed part o f our
nature. By the body’s being dead, therefore, in connexion
with Christ’s inhabitation of it, is implied an admission, that,
viewed in itself, as actuated by its native propensities, it is
indeed (fur) dead in trespasses and sins. As sin has its
seat, in great measure, in the fleshly appetites, and as those
reign supreme in the body by its inherent depravity, the
body, considered in this light, may be regarded as dead__
dead Si aftafTlav, because <rfsin. But in the regenerated, ‘ the
spirit,’the immortal part, being renewed by the Holy Ghost,
which Christ imparts, is endowed with a principle of true
life, did Sixautaxmir, because of righteousness, by the work­
ing of that inAuence which is imparted in tbe new birth.
This principle of divine life, thus infused into the soul
which inhabits a body morally dead, will gradually work
outward from its centre, and quicken that body also with
a divine vitality. For as this principle of life flows from
Him who “ hath life in himself,” and who gave such a de­
monstration of its efficacy in raising up Christ from the
dead, the supposition is perfectly easy, that the same power
is competent to a complete spiritual quickening of the
whole man in his saints, so that they shall stand before him
as in the highest sense alive, soul, spirit, and body. The text
is therefore entirely analogous with Col. 2.12: “ Buried with
him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him through
the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from
the dead.” The idea of any allusion to a physical resurrec­
tion is opposed by the following considerations:
(1.) The quickening here spoken of is evidently one
that is effected by the agency of the Holy Spirit. But a
literal resurrection of the dead, even supposing it taught at
all, is not elsewhere attributed to the Spirit. He is represent­
ed as the author of the present spiritual life of the saints, but
not of their future physical life.
(2.) The phrase tit aoyiaxa, mortal bodies, cannot
fairly be interpreted to mean the same as vtspa awfurza, dead
Digitized by Google
THB SCRIPTURAL ARGCMRNT. 857
bodies, which je t it must be, if the doctrine of the'; literal
resurrection is here taught. By ‘ mortal ’ is signified, not
dead, but tending to death, subject to death. On the theory
assumed, the apostle is in reality made to say, ‘God shall
raise to life your living dead bodies,’ which is of coarse an
idea too extravagant to be for a moment admitted.
(3.) T his interpretation destroys the continuity and
coherence o f the apostle’s discourse. It supposes him ab­
ruptly to break off from a connected series of remarks rela­
tive to walking not after the flesh, but after the spirit, to
leap Onward to the resurrection of the dead, and having
simply glanced at this, to return as suddenly and resume the
thread of his argument. This is, to say the least, a very vio­
lent supposition. .
As, therefore, all the exigencies of the context are an­
swered by understanding the reference to be to the spiritual
quickening of the body, by the vitalizing influence of the
Holy Ghost, in the present life, we are constrained to reject
any other construction of the passage. In this we are
happy to perceive that Mr. Barnes (in loc.) concurs.
After expressing his belief that it does not refer to the res­
urrection of the dead (i. e. of the body), he rem arks: “ I
understand it as referring to the body, subject to carnal de­
sires and propensities ; by nature under the reign of death,
and therefore mortal; i. e. subject to death. The sense is,
that under the gospel, by the influence of the Spirit, the
entire man will be made alive in the service of God. Even
the corrupt, carnal, and mortal body, so long under the do­
minion of sin, shall be made alive and recovered to the ser-
»ice of God. This will be done by the Spirit that dwells in
ua, because that Spirit has restored life to our souls, abides
with us with his purifying influence, and became the design
and tendency of his in-dwelling is to purify the entire man,
and restore all to God. Christians thus in their bodies and
their spirits become sacred. For even their body, the seat
°f evil passions and desires, shall become alive in the ser­
vice of God.”
Digitized by Google
258 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
V. 22. 23.
GR.
O ’d a p e v y u q , ô t i n ü a u f¡
x t i a i ç o v a rE râ Ç e i n u l a w c o b i-
* 8 i u y ç i t o v * v * .
Ov po*o* dé, ¿¿là xaî uv­
iol it¡v unayxijv t o v arevçia-
1 0ff ty O T T E Ç H U I Tjfltîç U V T O l ¡ V
8uvroïg oientÇofitv vlo&ealav
ànendsyôpevoi, ir¡v anoXvrçco-
dtv t o v amftuToç f¡páv.
EN G . VERS.
For we know that the whole
creation groaneth, and travail-
eth in pain together until now:
For not only they, but our­
selves also, which have the
first-fruits of the Spirit, even
we ourselves groan within our­
selves, waiting for the adoption,
to wit, the redemption of our
body.
The ‘ adoption ’ here mentioned as the object of the
intense expectancy of the saints who had the first-fruits of
the Spirit, is undoubtedly their manifested sonship, or what
is called before, v. 19, in express terms, the manifestation of
the sons of God. The ‘redemption of the body ’ evidently
indicates a state identical with that of this acknowledged
adoption which is in reserve for the heirs of the kingdom.
This is to be the realized consummation of the Christian’s
hopes, that to which they are all to come as one redeemed,
regenerated, sanctified body. It is their common inheritance;
and as the church is often spoken of as a body, of which
Christ is the presiding head and the pervading life, we per­
ceive nothing incongruous in the idea that this collective
body of the saints is here intended by Paul. Certain it is,
that there is a difficulty, on every other explanation, of ac­
counting for the use of the singular number in this con­
nexion. Why, if the common view be well founded, does
he not say ‘ redemption of our bodies ’ instead of ‘ redemp­
tion of our body ? This may appear at first blush a criti­
cism of little weight, but we axe persuaded it is one of prime
importance, and that we are entitled to demand some ra­
tional solution of the problem involved in the phraseology.
Nothing certainly would be more natural than the use of the
plural if he were speaking of the physical resurrection of
believers. As it is, we cannot doubt that the term is to be
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 259
taken in a collective sense, for the spiritual or mystical body
of Christ, the whole aggregate of believers; so that ‘ our
body,’ in this connexion, is merely another phrase for the
body to which we belong. We believe, moreover, that the
apostle in adopting the phraseology had his eye on the
parallel expression in Is. 26. 19 : “ Thy dead men shall live,
together with my (i. e, our) dead body shall they rise.” But
it does not follow that he intended by such a tacit reference
to suggest the true exposition of that text. This we have
endeavored to unfold on a previous page. We are unable,
therefore, to regard the present passage as countenancing
the theory of the resurrection o f the body.
2 C or. V. 2-4.
o r .
Kat yaq tv ’xovxcp axtvor
lofiev, t o oixrjx^Qiov rjuav xo
si; ovgavov entvbvaaa&ai im-
ftO & O V V T i f f ,
Elys xat evbvaaysvoi ov
}
'V f i v o i tvQtxhjaooe&o..
Kal yog ol ovxeg iv xqj axry
vu artvaQopev fiagovyevoi, icp
<
pov &e).outv exdvaaa&cu, dlX
intvSvaaa&ai, iva xaxano&ri
xo &vtjxov imo xijg ^oorjg.
EN G . V E R S .
For in this we groan, ear­
nestly desiring to be clothed
upon with our house which is
from heaven:
If so be that being clothed,
we shall not be found naked.
For we that are in this taber­
nacle do groan being burden­
ed : not for that we would be
unclothed, but clothed upon,
that mortality might be swal­
lowed up of life.
Several points having an important bearing on our theme
disclose themselves in this passage. In the first place, it can­
not be doubted that the ‘ house from heaven,’ for which
the apostle longed, is the same with the ‘spiritual body’ of
which he speaks 1 Cor. 15. 44. Mr. Barnes indeed remarks
of the opinion maintained by some expositors, that it refers
to a ‘celestial vehicle ’ with which God invests the soul after
death, that “ the Scripture is silent about any such celes­
tial vehicle.” But the Scripture is certainly not silent about
a ‘spiritual body,’ and if this is not a ‘ celestial vehicle,’
what is it? It cannot be a body of flesh and blood, and
yGoogk
2 6 0 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T n E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
though the phrase may involve an idea of something, the in­
terior nature of which we cannot at present understand, yet
we see not but the phrase itself is entirely proper in this ap­
plication. It is, at any rate, the very unanimous judgment
of commentators that the ‘house from heaven ’ is the resur­
rection-body, whatever that be; and that the change here al­
luded to by the apostle is the same with that by which ‘ the
corruptible puts on incorruption.’* Nor is it undeserving
o notice that the apostle here uses the present tense txofur,
ice have, and not the future, ice shall have.
Secondly, it is clear, we think, that Paul expected to be
clothed upon with this heavenly house as soon as he left the
material body. This is evident from the whole strain of his
discourse, but especially from v. 6 , 8 : “ Knowing that, whilst
we are at home in the body, we are absent from the L ord:
we are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from
the body, and present with the Lord.” What other infer­
ence can we draw from this, than that he expected at once
to assume that celestial tenement which would capacitate
him for ‘ being with Christ V that is, having a body
“ fashioned like unto his glorious body,” as Moses and
Elijah certainly had when they appeared with him upon the
holy mount. If he did not anticipate an immediate en­
trance at death into the beatific presence, where did he
expect to be ? Did he count upon a long interval of dormant
and unconscious repose before he awoke to the felicities of
heaven 1 Did he believe the soul would sink into a dreary
lethargy of centuries or chiliads in duration, while the body
was mouldering away in the dust and passing into unnum­
bered new relations ? This, surely, would not be to be
* No one can fail to be struck with the evangelical tone of Cicero’s
language on a similar subject, in his Tusculan Questions :—“ posse ani­
mos, quum e corporibus excesserint, in cceium, quasi in domicilium suum,
pervenire,” that souls may, when they have forsaken their bodies, come
into heaven as into their own domicil.
yGoogk
T B S S C R IP T U R A L A R O U M H N T . 901
absent from the foody. It would rather be to be with the
body, if the soul is so entirely united with its destiny, that
it sleeps with it in the grave, and only awakes when it
awakes. Yet, even upon this ground, how great the absur­
dity of the soul’s haring an unconscious lodgment in the
perished body 1 Should it be said that Paul hoped indeed
to be at once with the Saviour in his disembodied spirit, we
would then inquire to what purpose he speaks of being
1 clothed upon,’ when unclothed of his present tabernacle, if
such an investment were not a necessary preliminary to his
being with Christ ? On every hand, then, we see the diffi­
culties that cluster about the theory of a long interval be­
tween death and the resurrection. On the theory we advo­
cate, they vanish at once. As our Saviour said, Mark 14.
58, in speaking of his resurrection, “ I will destroy this
temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will
build another made without hands," which must certainly
refer to his spiritual body in contradistinction to his natural,
so also the *house from heaven not made with hands,’ for
which the apostle longed, was to be immediately assumed ;
for we have already seen that the view we are maintaining
brings the resurrection of Christ into the most signal con­
formity with that of his people. Not only are their vile
bodies to be fashioned like unto his glorious body, but as
the transition, in his case, from the one into the other was
immediate, so likewise is it to be in theirs. This construc­
tion relieves the present text from all embarrassment, while
no other does. Nothing is more clearly asserted in the
compass of the whole Bible, than that he that believeth in
Christ shall never die, and that whosoever heareth and
keepeth his sayings shall never see death—declarations, as
far as we can perceive, utterly at variance with the idea of a
suspended consciousness of an indefinitely long duration.
But if the man lives, does he not live in his house which is
from heaven, and is not this the resurrection-body 1 Was
not the angel who appeared to John, Rev. 39. 9, and
1 2 *
Digitized by Google
2 0 2 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
declared himself to be one of his “ fellow-servants and of his
brethren the prophets,” clothed in such a body! And if
he, why not others'?
V.
G R .
T o v f yiq ftarjae fifide <pu-
req w & fjra t S ti tpnqoa&ev ro v
fitjfiaTOS to il X q ia ro v, rva xo-
fila tjT a i exacsrof t a 8lit tov
acofiaros, rrqog a eitqa^ev, sirs
aya&ov ene xaxor.
The original, ‘ for we must all appear’ (robs yitq nanas
fjftag (pavtqa&ifyai 3 ii), means properly, we m ust a ll be m anifest­
ed. The idea conveyed is something more than that of the
simple fact of our sta n d in g or being presented at the judg­
ment-seat of Christ. It implies the development which then
is to be made of character, as the ground of retribution.
But as to the general bearing of the text upon the subject
before us, we shall first adduce the remarks of Locke, in his
reply to the Bishop of Worcester. “ The next text your
lordship brings, to make the resurrection o f the body, in your
sense, an article of faith, are these words of St. Paul, ‘For
we must all appear before the judgment-seat of Christ,’ &c.
To which your lordship subjoins this question : ‘ Can these
words be understood of any other material substance, but
that body in which those things were done Y A man may
suspend his determining the meaning of the apostle to be,
that a sinner shall suffer for his sins in the ve ry same body,
because the apostle does not say that he shall have the very
same body when he suffers, that he had when he sinned.
The apostle says indeed—‘done in his body.’ The body he
had, and did things in, at five or fifteen, was no doubt his
body, as much as that which he did things in at fifty, was his
body, though his body were not the ve ry same body at these
different ages. And so will the body which he shall have after
10.
E N G . V E R S .
For we must all appear
before the judgment-Beat of
C hrist; that every one may
receive the things done in his
body, according to that he hath
done, whether it be good or bad.
yGoogk
T U E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 263
the resurrection be his body, though it be not the very same
with that which he had at five, or fifteen, or fifty. He
that at three-score is broke on the wheel for a murder he
committed at twenty, is punished for what he did in kis body,
though the body he has, i. e. his body at three-score, be
not the same, i. e. made up of the same individual particles
of matter that that body was which he had forty years be­
fore. When your lordship has resolved with yourself what
that Bame immutable ‘he’ is, which, at the last judgment,
shall receive the things done in his body, your lordship will
easily see that the body he had when an embryo in the
womb, when a child playing in coatB, when marrying a
wife, and when bed-rid, dying of a consumption, and, at last,
which he shall have after the resurrection, are all of them his
body, though neither of them be the same body, the one with
the other.” p. 171.
This, it is true, touches exclusively, though very perti­
nently, the question of the identity of the body before and
after the resurrection, and we rather infer that Mr. Locke
held to the resurrection of a material body, while he stren­
uously contended that no arguments from Scripture or rea­
son could prove it to be the same body. We leave his opin­
ion on both points to carry their own weight to the mind of
the reader. For ourselves, we have only to say, that we
perceive in the text no allusion to the resurrection o f the
body; and with any thing else that may be taught by it we
have at present no concern. He that has sinned or obeyed
in the material body may properly be rewarded or punished
inthe spiritual body; as it is in that that the true personality of
every one resides. The idea that the present body must ne­
cessarily share in the punishment of the sins which it was
instrumental in committing, is one that receives no counte­
nance from the decisions of a sound reason. The body, as
such, ¡b no more capable of suffering than the sword, the
pistol, or the bludgeon, with which the murderer may
have taken the life of a fellow-being. Sensations, it is true,
Digitized by Google
264 TH E DOCT U N E OF THE» R ESU R R EC TIO N .
are received th ro u g h the body, bat the body is no more the
seatorsubjectofthem,thanthe telescopeis thesubject ofvis­
ion. Even in the presentlife, it is the spiritual body which
feels the sensations of pleasure or pain. How much more
in the life to come1
1 T h e b s .
o r .
Ov ViXoftevStiftag dyvotXv,
n s q I t & v xexoifirjfuvaiv, Iva p t y
Xvnija&e, xa# « j oi Xoirtol oi
fit] irfovrif eXmSa.
E i yog matevofiev, ou 'Ir\-
aovg ane&avs xat aveatt], ov-
toj xat o &eog rovg xoifiq&ev-
tag Sia ’Irjaov a |ti ovv avrcp.
Tovro yag v/uv Xeyoftev iv
Xoycp xvgiov, ovt tifttig oi £cov-
rif oi rtegtXeuri/tevot ets t o v
nagovaiav vov xvgiov o v fit/
qi&dowpev rovg xoifitj&evrag.
O t i a v r o g 6 x v g io g i v x c-
X e v o fia n , i v q xn vjj d g y a y y iX o v
x a t i v a a X m y y i ’
d'eov x a x a f l f r
o s t m a r t o v g u v o v , xat o i v e x -
pot i v X g i o r t p a v a o T r /o o v r a t
ngtoTov,
"Enevxa ijfieXg oi Jwxteg oi
ntgiXemoftevoi a/ta ovv avrotg
agnayijoofie&a iv vecpeXutg eig
anavTrjoiv t o v x v q I o v eigaega •
xat ovrm ndvroTf ovv xvgiqrt
iaofjiE&a.
IV. 13-17.
ENG. V ERS.
But I would not hare you to
be ignorant, brethren, concern­
ing them which are asleep, that
ye sorrow not, even as others
which have no hope.
For if we believe that Jesus
died and rose again, even so
them also which sleep in Jesus
will God bring with him.
For this we say unto you by
the word of the Lord, that we
which are alive and remain un­
to the coming ofthe Lord shall
not prevent them which are
asleep.
For the Lord himself shall
descend from heaven with a
shout, with the voice of the
archangel, and with the trump
of God; and the dead in Christ
shall rise first:
Then we which are alive
and remain shall be caught up
together with them in the
clouds, to meet the Lord in the
air: and so shall we ever be
with the Lord.
The genera] scope of this passage is obviously to minis­
ter consolation to those addressed, under the grief arising
from the death of Christian friends. It would seem that
their sorrow had acquired additional poignancy from an ill-
founded impression that the full felicity of the kingdom of
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 0 5
Christ could be enjoyed by those only who should be alive
at his coming, which they, in common with the mass of
Christians at that day, and the apostles themselves, antici­
pated as speedily to occur.* Assuming, then, this expecta­
tion of the Lord’s appearing, and in the lifetime of that
generation, to be true, the apostle applies himself to remove
those gloomy apprehensions respecting their departed friends.
He assures them that so certainly as Christ died and rose
again, so those that sleep in Jesus will God bring with him ;
and the circumstances of this advent he then goes on to
describe: “ For this we say unto you by the word of
the Lord,” meaning that he here repeats what Christ him­
self had declared, Matt. 24. 30, 31, “ They shall see the
Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven, with power and
great glory; and he shall send his angels with a great sound
of a trumpet,” &.c. In the general interpretation of the pas­
sage a serious embarrassment arises from the difficulty of
determining the precise import of fifei, will bring. To what
does this refer? Does it imply that when our Lord descends
from heaven, with this predicted pomp and glory, he will be
attended by an accompaniment of the saints who have for­
merly slept in him ? If so, the following is perhaps the view
* The above remark is made in fall mindfulness of the fact, that Paul
does elsewhere in his epistles (2 Thess. 2. 2), expressly warn his disci­
plesagainst the impression that the day of Christ was so near at hand as
many of them were led to suppose. He assures them that the coming of
that day was to be preceded by a signal apostasy and the revelation and
destruction of the man of sin. But we see nothing in his language which
indicates that he supposed this series, of events to be of distant occurrence.
There is no evidence that he personally understood the exact nature of
this apostasy, or was able to judge of the time that would be requisite to
bring it to a head. The announcement therefore does not, in our view,
stand in the way of our generalconclusion, that he, and all other Christians
ofthat age, did anticipate a speedycom of Christ and a consummation
embracing the resurrection of dead and the rapture of living saints. All
that he intended, as we conceive, to intimate in the passage referred to
ffss, that that day was not so immediately instant as they imagined.
266 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
which is to be deduced from the apostle’s language : When
the Lord comes at this crisis, he shall bring with him his
saints who hare slept in him. But here an objection would
at once occur—How can they come with him, unless previ­
ously they were with him ? And how can they be with him,
unless they shall first have risen for that purpose ? And
how can they have risen, without having undergone a resur­
rection ? And how can they have been the subjects of this
resurrection, if they are yet reposing in the dust ? This
natural query the apostle proceeds to obviate in the sen­
tence that follows : “ The dead in Christ (i. e. those that
have slept in him) shall rise first,” i. e. shall rise, or shall
have arisen, previously. That this a probable sense of
itQuxoY^nqoxtQov, in this connexion, may be shown by an
appeal to the usus loquendi in the following passages : Matt.
5. 24, “ Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way,
first (txqwxoypreviously) be reconciled to thy brother,” &c.
Matt. 12.29, “ How can one enter into a strong man’s house
and spoil his goods, except hefirst (nffiixorpreviously) bind
the strong man?” Mark 9. 11, 12, “ Why say the scribes
that Elias must first (jxqwxoy, previously) come ? And he
answered and told them, Elias verily cometh first (ixqwxor,
previously), and restoreth all things.” 2 Thes. 2. 3, “ For
that day shall not come except there come a falling away
first {txq&xov, previously).” 1 Tim. 3. 10, “ And let these
alsofirst (txq&xov, previously) be proved.” The evidence,
therefore, may be considered strong, that this is the true
sense of the term in this connexion, and the clause, being
thrown in for the purpose of meeting a tacit objection,
ought to have been enclosed in a parenthesis. The whole
passage will then read thus: “ For the Lord himself shall de­
scend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the arch­
angel, and with the trump of God (and the dead in Christ
shall have previously arisen); then we which are alive and
remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds
(iv vnpalait, in clouds, i. e. in multitudes, as the article is
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 6 7
wanting), to meet the Lord in the air.” The phrase apa <
rvv
avroti uQnayr\ao[u&a, shall be caught up together with them,
means not on this view so properly that we shall be caught
up in company with them—for how could they be caught up
when they were already descending with Christ from hea­
ven ?— but simply, we shall be caught up to be with them.
W hat inference, then, more fair, than that these words,
instead of teaching the resurrection of the body at the com­
ing of Christ, teach directly the reverse ? The entire stress
of the argument rests upon this very assumption, that the
saints who had slept in Jesus were with him in heaven, as,
otherwise, how could they come with him when he descends
from heaven ? But if they were with him in heaven, must
they not previously have arisen, in order that they might
be with him and come with him ? And if they come with
him, must it not be in resurrection-bodies? Is it fora moment
conceivable that this locomotion would be predicated of
men’s intellectual spirits separate from all kind of corporeity.
How can such spirits be said to come ? Surely, if the sleep­
ers in Jesus have previously risen, they must exist in resur­
rection-bodies, and therefore must come in resurrection-
bodies, as our Lord himself comes. The statement of the
apostle divides the righteous, of whom alone he is here
speaking, into two great classes, those who had died in
Christ, and those who should be alive at his coming. These
latter, he says, shall not prevent, i. e. shall not have any ad­
vantage over, the former, and therefore there was no ground
for any grief at their earlier departure. The saints who
had died had arisen in spiritual bodies. They had sojourn­
ed with Christ in heaven from the day of their death. They
would form the glorious retinue of their descending King
when he came the second time without sin unto salvation.
The living saints would then be changed and caught up in
multitudinous clouds to meet the Lord and his train in the
air, and so should they ever be with the Lord. What in­
timation is there here of the resurrection of dead bodies ?
Digitized by Google
268 TH E DOCTRINE OF T H E RESU RRECTION .
“ Who,” says Pres. Dwight (Serm. 164), “ are those whom
God will bring with Christ at this time t Certainly not the
bodies of the saints. . . . The only answer is, he will bring
with him ‘ the spirits of just men made perfect.’ ” The al­
lusion is probably to such passages as the following : Zecb.
14. 5, “ The Lord my God shall come, and all the saints
with thee.” Jude 14, “ And Enoch the seventh from
Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold,'the Lord cometh
with ten thousands o f his saints.” With these prophetic
intimations familiar to his mind, it was not unnatural that
he should speak of Christ’s being accompanied on his return
to earth with these glorified legions of saints; and if this
view be admitted as sound, it will perhaps afford the true
key to his language, 1 Cor. 15. 35: “ How are the dead
raised, and with what body do they come T” i. e. not with
whatbody do they came up out of the ground, but with what
body do they come down from heaven 1 •
The foregoing interpretation,it will be seen, depends upon
the correctness ofthe ideaassu med in the outset, that afci,will
bring, refers to the descent of Christ at the era of the second
coming. That this is not a violent supposition we are well
persuaded; and yet, at the same time, we are constrained to
acknowledge that, taken in the connexion, it does not strike
one as quite so natural and obvious as that which is involved
in the common rendering, which represents it as a mere
continuous announcement of the order of events. There is,
perhaps, a more unforced air of probability in the construc­
tion, which makes the writer to say that, as God intends to
have his people ultimately with him, as well as Christ their
head, so one great object of his second coming might well
be represented to be to gather home his sleeping and living
saints in one united company, the first class to be reclaimed
from the power of the grave in which they had been resting,
and the other to be translated, which would of course bring
them into the same condition with that of the risen dead.
Accordingly, in pursuing the thread of the announcement,
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 6 9
lie may be considered as saying, that the first step will be to
raise the sleepers in the dnst, and invest them with their
resurrection-bodies. When this is accomplished, he will im­
mediately proceed (Smna, then) to work that stupendous
transformation npon the living saints which shall fit them
forentering into a spiritual kingdom; and this effected, both
classes shall be caught together (a/ia) in clouds, or vast
numbers, to meet the Lord in the air. Our own view of
the true doctrine of the resurrection would be better sub­
served by the other exposition, but we feel not at liberty to
put the leaBt constraint upon the out-speaking purport of
any text, and therefore do not hesitate to admit that a very
high degree o f probability marks this latter construction.
Consequently we do not refitse to abide by it.
How then, it may be asked, shall we avoid the conclu­
sion drawn from the apostle’s language in this passage, that
the resurrection is to be simultaneous, and destined to occur
atthe second advent? Our answer will be inferred from the
previous tenor of our remarks. We have already adverted
to the principle which we regard as forming the key to this
kind of diction, wherever it occurs. Christ and the apostles
expressed themselves on this, and kindred topics, in lan­
guage conformed to the formulas of speech to which they
had been accustomed from the necessities of their Jewish
birth and training. It is, in our view, impossible to divest
the apostolic statements, on this subject, of their national
and traditional coloring. The prophetic anticipations of
that people connected the resurrection with the grand crisis
of the Messiah’s installation as head of his celestial king­
dom. This event they undoubtedly considered as near at
hand, and we see not but the present passage receives an
adequate solution on this hypothesis. To our minds the
evidence is conclusive, that the apostles actually anticipated
the occurrence of that event in their own lifetime, and on
that supposition the writer adopts, in the present text, the
language appropriate to such an expectancy. If the predict­
yGoogk
2 7 0 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
ed coming were speedily to occur, he would be led by the
general strain of the Old Testament prophecies, as tradi­
tionally interpreted, to connect with it the resurrection of
the dead and the rapture of the living saints; and could he
but be confirmed in this by the Saviour’s declaration that
that generation should not pass away till the great event of
the advent had received its fulfilment? Such we deem the
train of thought in the apostle’s mind.
As to the absolute truth of the announcement, we are,
as far as we can see, left to collect it from the general tenor
of prophecy, for which we have all the advantage of a com­
pleted canon, embracing the Apocalypse, and a long course
of providential events subsequently developed. The diffi­
culty attending the common interpretation, which makes the
event here described to occur at what is termed ‘ the end of
the world,’ is, that it brings it into conflict with other
items in the scheme of eschatology, which are entirely in­
consistent with the idea of a physical termination of the
globe, and which are equally authoritative with the present
oracle. The New Jerusalem state, which is evidently to be
developed by gradual expansion and amelioration out of the
present, and which is plainly subsequent to all accounts of
the resurrection and the judgment, presents an insuperable
bar to the adoption of the popular construction of Paul’s
language. It is obvious, then, that no view of it can stand
which leaves one part of revelation at war with another.
The common interpretation does; ours does not.
P hil.
GR.
* 0 ? f x e r a a % r [ f i a . r l a n t o <
t<5-
fxa Ttjt Taneivmaemt ¿¡fitbv ovp-
ft0Q(f0* t w aoifian tys
aiitov, xazbc Ttjv evtQyeiuv t o v
dvvatidea alt or xcu vnoia^ai
iavTcp to. navToc.
We have here another
lit. 21.
ENG. VERS.
Who shall change our vile
body, that it may be fashioned
like unto his glorious body, ac­
cording to the working where­
by he is able even to subdue
all things unto himself.
instance of that remarkable
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARAUMENT. 2 7 1
usage upon which we have before commented, in which
‘body’ is used in the singular, whereas, on the common ap­
prehension, we can see no reason why the plural ‘ bodies’
should not have been employed. From repeated intima­
tions we are assured that our resurrection-bodies are to be
ofthe same nature with that of Christ. Of such bodies is
the whole redeemed and glorified church to be possessed.
A specimen of them was afforded at the transfiguration,
when the bodies of Moses and Elias, the models of those of
allthe saints, were evidently ofthe same divine structure with
that of Christ, ethereal in substance and clothed with a robe
oflight. The present we deem an announcement of a sim­
ilar condition, as the prospective lot of the whole multitude
ofthe saiuts in the day of their final manifestation ; an event
not to transpire in the natural, but in the spiritual world.
Into such a state we have endeavored to show that the right­
eous enter individually at death, and the evidence of this
must first be got rid of before we can understand the lan­
guage of Paul in this text as teaching a contrary doctrine.
But, in fact, even if the words be taken as they usually
are, as having reference to the change that shall pass
upon the bodies of individual believers at the last day, how
can it be shown that the apostle has not rather in view
the translation o f the Jiving, than the resurrection o f the
dead saints ? He expressly says elsewhere, of some whom
be denominates ‘ we,’ that “ we shall not all sleep, but we
shall all be changed.” And this is to take place at the time
of Christ’s second manifestation from heaven, which we
have already seen the apostle anticipated as not unlikely to
occur in his own day. Now the allusion in the present
passage is evidently to the same tim e; for he says in the
preceding verse, “ For our conversation is in heaven; from
whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
who shall change,” &c. How then can it be proved that
this ‘ changing the vile bodies ’ does not concern the same
Digitized by Googk
2 7 2 THR DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
persons 1 In other words, that he speaks of translation, and
not of resurrection ?
2 Tim. II. 16-19.
OR.
Tag de ßeßqXovg xsrotptoti-
ag ntQiutraào • in ï nXetor yctç
nQoxôxpovatr àoe^eiag,
K a l ô Xoyog avrdir oag jay-
yçaiva rôftor féei • cor eonr
Tfiêraiog xal <I>D.rjroç,
OiTirtg neçl zqv àXij&Eiar
ijoroffloar, Xiyovrcç try» àvà-
oraoir tfr/yeyortrat, xal àra-
rçéitovai ztjv ttrcor niortr.
’ O fiirzo i areçeog VefiiXtog
roiv S eov tOTtjxer, tytor tryr
aqsQayïSa ruvrqv ‘ eyrco x
v
q
i-
og roi’g orrag avrov, xal àno-
arrytta ànô àSixiag nàg 6 bvo-
paÇtor to orofia xvçiov.
ENO. VERS.
But shun profane and vain
babblings: for they will in­
crease unto more ungodliness.
And their word will eat as
doth a canker: of whom is
Hymeneus and Philetus.
Who concerning the truth
have erred, saying that the re­
surrection is past already; and
overthrow the faith of some.
Nevertheless the foundation
of God standeth sure, having
this seal, The Lord knoweth
them that are his. And, Let
every one that nameth the
name of Christ depart from
iniquity.
In order to the correct understanding of this passage,
it would seem to be necessary to ascertain, if possible, what
resurrection they maintained to be already past, and on what
grounds their opinion rested. But this is not an easy mat­
ter. Commentators, for the most part, intimate that the
apostle, by ‘ the resurrection,’ means the general resurrec­
tion, and, consequently, the error of Hymeneus and Philetus
they suppose to have consisted in affirming that the true
resurrection was the spiritual resurrection o f the saints from
the death o f trespasses and sins. But in this view it will be
seen that the one idea is destructive of the other. The gen­
eral resurrection is understood to include all mankind, good
and bad, while the spiritual resurrection is the peculiar priv­
ilege of the saints of God. Such a resurrection they could
not of course have substituted in their theory for a general
Digitized by Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 7 3
resurrection of the whole race. Nor, upon this supposition,
could they hare asserted a spiritual resurrection to be past
already; for it could not be past till it had embraced all
who are destined to be the subjects of it. But the process
of spiritual resuscitation had then but just commenced; the
Lord was adding to the church daily such as should be
saved; and there is no conceivable ground on which they
could have affirmed such a resurrection to be past. So long
as a single soul remained to be brought out of darkness into
light, the resurrection, thns understood, most be considered
aa progressive, and not as past. In the absence of any defi­
nite knowledge of what they really held on the subject—as to
which all ecclesiastical testimony halts—it cannot be prop­
erly affirmed that the error charged upon their creed by the
apostle is one that is chargeable also, on the same grounds,
upon the view we are now advocating. This view makes
the resurrection indeed to be pajjtRgvbut notpast. Men are
not raised from the dead till they die, and they do not die
till they live. It is only past when it has embraced the to­
tality o f its subjects.
W e have now gone over all the important passages in the
Gospels and Epistles usually cited as proving, either by di­
rect assertion or plain implication, the doctrine of the resur­
rection of the body. We are not conscious to ourselves of
having submitted them to any other than a fair and uncen­
surable exegesis. We have at least honestly endeavored to
elicit the true mind of the Spirit as conveyed by them, and
though we have undoubtedly made our previous inductions
a criterion by which the absolute truth of the Scriptural dic­
ta on the subject are to be judged, yet we conceive that we
have taken no unwarrantable license in adopting this course.
If our rational results are sound and impregnable, is it
possible that the true sense of Scripture should be in con­
Digitized by Googk
2 7 4 THE DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
flict with them ? Is not all trnth of necessity in harmony
with itself?
How the evidence adduced may strike the reader, we
know not. To our own minds it is amply sufficient to es­
tablish the conclusion, that the resurrection o f the body is
not a doctrine sanctioned either by reason or revelation, as
fa r as toe have hitherto interrogated the testimony o f each.
It now remains to consider the tenet in certain other Scrip­
tural relations, and to see how far the main conclusion is
confirmed or confuted by their genuine purport. It will be
seen that the fundamental principle of our interpretation re­
cognizes the prominent influence of the Judaic Christology
and Eschatology in moulding the New Testament disclo­
sures of the sublime future. If the soundness of this princi­
ple be denied, our inferences will of course so far lose their
force ; but in that case it will certainly be admitted as a fair
requisition, that the denier should show, upon adequate
grounds, that the Jewish church was, as a body and in all
ages, mistaken in the sense of their own prophecies. That
they mistook the person of their expected Messiah, is admit­
ted, but that they equally mistook the fortunes and issues of
the kingdom which he was to establish, is not admitted. The
great work of the Christian interpreter is to show that the
main Messianic anticipations of the Jews are and are to be
actually fulfilled in Jesus of Nazareth.
CHAPTER IX.
The Resurrection viewed in Connexion teith the Judgment.
I t is by no means improbable that the conclusions to
which we have come, and which we have so distinctly pro­
pounded in the foregoing pages, would meet with a far
readier assent on the part of our readers, were it not for
their apprehended conflict with the clear teachings of Scrip­
yGoogk
TH H SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 7 5
ture in respect to what is termed ‘ the final judgment ’—
1the day of judgment ’—‘the judgment of the great day,’
&c., ns it is variously denominated. The intimations of
this august event are deemed so clear and unequivocal in
themselves, and so indissolubly inwrought into the texture of
those announcements which predict the resurrection, that it
is at once assumed, that whatever process of reasoning
or exposition goes to modify our established views of the
one, must necessarily bear with equal weight upon those of
the other. This is undoubtedly true. The whole system of
Scriptural Eschatology, though made up of distinct or dis­
tinguishable parts, is yet so framed into a compact and sym­
metrical whole, that no one portion of it can be in any way
dislocated from its fixed junctures and attachments, without
affecting the integrity of the entire fabric. If the antici­
pated judgment really coincides, according to the true tenor
of revelation, in point of time with the resurrection, and the
real resurrection ensues immediately at death, then all argu­
ment is useless either in support or in denial of the fact,
that each individual soul must be, in effect, judged as soon
as the spirit leaves the body. Our sentence, in truth, is
passed before our graves are dug. And that such a fact
must have a most decided bearing upon the tenet of a gen­
eral judgment, to be held at some particular epoch of time
or eternity, is obvious at a glance. Still it is very possible
that this altered view may be the true one. If adequate
evidence has been adduced that the resurrection, upon ac­
curate inquest, actually expands itself into an unfolding pro­
cess, covering the lapse of successive generations, it is far
from inconceivable that the judgment, when submitted to
the same rigid test, may present itself under the same as­
pect; and that, too, without losing any portion of its power as
a great moral sanction under the divine administration.
Constituted as men are, the idea of a final adjudication or­
dained to sit upon the conduct of all mankind in the present
life, is, indeed, in every view, an indispensable element in
Digitized by Google
276 TH E DOCTRINE OF TU E RESURRECTION.
our conceptions of the rectoral dominion of Jehovah over
accountable creatures, nor can any system of interpretation be
correct which would go to abolish this conviction from the
human mind. At the same time, we are equally firm in
maintaining, that the inward demand for such a retributive
adjustment, created by our moral instincts and rational de­
ductions, is satisfied in the anticipation of the simple fact, that
such an equitable award shall really be made upon our en­
trance into the world of Spirits; and, moreover, that it shall
result from necessary law, rather than arbitrary appointment.
The moral power of the doctrine of a ‘judgment to come,’
does not truly rest so much upon the imagined form or con­
comitants of the process, or upon its being held upon the
assembled multitude of its subjects, at a particular time or
plaee, or as marked by certain forensic solemnities, as
upon its beetring upon individual character and destiny.
We do not doubt, indeed, that the impressiveness of such an
anticipated futurity is, to the mass of men, materially en­
hanced by the array of that awful imagery with which the
scene of judgment, from its Scriptural presentation, is usually
associated in their minds. Bnt we are still unable to res'st
the conclusion, that the essence o fjudgment is adjudicatio. ,
and that this is independent of time, place, and circum­
stance.
And here, by way of taking off any thing of a startling
air that may pertain to this position, let it be remarked, that
whatever systematic theory we may have adopted on the
subject, it is, nevertheless, certain that the current senti­
ments of all Christians do, in fact, involve substantially the
same belief. No article of any creed in Christendom is
more universally or unhesitatingly held than that each indi­
vidual enters at death upon an eternal state of retribution.
According to the prevailing moral character in which he
makes his exit from the body, he either soars an angel, or
sinks a fiend. Lazarus died, and was carried by angels to
Abraham’s bosom. The rich man also died, and in hell lift-
Digitized by Google
T B S BCBIFTOKAL ABOUHXMT. «77
ed up his eyes being in torment. This is a virtualjudgment.
No force of reasoning can rebut, no gloss of rhetoric can
sophisticate, the selfevident position, that an act of the divine
(dedication which seals to tbe joys of heaven or the woes
of hell a departing spirit, is as truly a sentence of life or
death—as real an award of eternal judgment—as would be
that which should be pronounced in the thunder-tones of
Sinai, from the great white throne visibly set and surround­
ed by circling myriads of the hosts of heaven. Conse­
quently, no subsequent judicial sentence can be conceived
as reversing that which is in effect passed at the instant the
soul leaves the body ; nor can the object of such a general
assizeas is usually understood to be announced under the title
of tbe ‘ general judgment,’ be to enact de novo a process
which has really been accomplished upon each individual of
the race as he entered, in his turn, the world of retribution.
We believe there are very few minds to which the inquiry
has not suggested itself, For what purpose are the souls of the
righteous and the wicked, after subsisting for ages in heaven
and hell, to be reclaimed from their mansions of bliss or wo,
and summoned together before the dread tribunal of Jeho­
vah, there to receive a sentence which assigns them, respect­
ively,to the same lot in effect with that upon which they had
entered in the day when “ Qod took away their breath?” And
who, that has proposed the question, has ever received
to it a perfectly satisfactory answer? We know, indeed,
that the inward interrogations that arise on this score are
usually silenced, rather than soloed, by reference to certain
vague analogies which it is supposed may obtain in this mat­
ter, drawn from the forms of judicial procedure among men,
by which the culprit is often imprisoned before he is formally
tried, and, after being tried, before he is executed. But on
the ground of this species of analogy—the application of
which to the case of the righteous is not very obvious—we
are forced to the admission of an interval of imperfect ret­
ribution for which it is difficult to find any warrant in the
13
2 7 8 TH E DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
Scriptures, and which appears to lead by very natural, if not
inevitable, steps, to some [kind of intermediate state very
nearly akin to that of ■purgatory, and upon which, in fact,
there can be little doubt that the doctrine of purgatory has
been actually built.
At the same time it is impossible to blind our eyes to the
fact, that the word of inspiration is so constructed as to
give the anticipation of a judgment to come all the moral
force pertaining to an august solemnity to be held in the pre­
sence of the assembled universe. Whatever esoteric inter­
pretation may be embraced, we are still safe in adopting the
Scriptural mode of presentation in all our pulpit references
to this event. Nor is it by any means clear that the essen­
tial truth of the doctrine may not, in one sense, involve all
the substantial elements which ordinarily enter into our ideas
of the ‘ general judgment.’ -
We do not question that ends worthy of infinite wisdom
may dictate the ordainment of some grand crisis in the moral
history of the universe, for the purpose of revealing—of
making manifest— in some illustrious way, the righteous
grounds of a judgment already passed. Nor, as we have
before intimated, do we see any thing incongruous in the
idea, that the word of inspiration may be so framed as to
create the impression, that both the resurrection and the
final award may concentrate themselves to this great epoch,
simply from the fact that their realized results shall then be
more signally divulged to all orders of intelligences. At
the same time we are equally firm in the confidence, that
as the doctrine of the resurrection gradually discloses
itself under a phasis different from that of the strict im­
port of the letter, so also will that of the judgment. A
multitude of particular passages in which the mass of the
Christian world have for ages read the announcement of a
simultaneous judgment, will inevitably, when brought to the
test of the general tenor of revelation, yield another sense,
and one which shall imperatively command assent, as soon
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 7 9
U it is fairly exhibited. This general tenor of the Scrip­
tares, on this subject, may doubtless be ascertained, and this
we shall attempt to do with a sole and simple regard to truth,
free from the consciousness of favoritism to any particular
theory which may justly be deemed the result of “ private
interpretation.”
The principle which lies at the bottom of our expositions
is, that the New Testament teachings on this theme are but
the expansion o f the Old, and that although the New Testa­
ment does frequently recognize, without expressly contradict­
ing, the erroneous interpretations put by the Jews upon the
Old Testament, yet the a b s o l u t e t r u t h o f the disclosures is
capableo f being ascertainedfrom Me g e n e r a l t e n o r o f the
whole. If the soundness of this principle is admitted at the
outset, we shall find ourselves furnished with a key to some
of the deepest mysteries involved in the words of Christ and
his apostles.
In prosecuting the inquiry, the first point that claims
attention is the true origin of that peculiar form of the ex­
pectation of a great ‘ day of judgment,’ which stands forth
so conspicuously in the gospels and the epistles, and on this
head we adopt without hesitation the view of Mede, given
in the following extract ( Works, p. 762): “ The mother-
text of Scripture, Whence the church of the Jews grounded
the name and expectation of the Great D ay o f Judgment,
with the circumstances thereto belonging, and whereunto al­
most all the descriptions and expressions thereof in the New
Testament have reference, is that vision in the seventh ofDan­
iel, of a session of judgment when the fourth beast came to
be destroyed ; where this great assizes is represented after
the manner of the great Synedrion or consistory of Israel,
wherein the Pater judicii had his assessores, sitting upon
seats placed semicircle-wise before him, from his right
hand to his left. ‘I beheld (says Daniel, v. 9) till the
thrones or seats were pitched down (namely, for the senators
to sit upon; not ‘thrown down,’ as we of late have it), and
Digitized by Googk
8 8 0 TH E DOCTRINE OP TH E RESURRECTION.
the Ancient of days (Pater consistorii) did sit, &.C., and (sub*
aude, understand) I beheld till the judgment was set (that
is, the whole Sanhedrim), and the books were opened.’—
Here we see both the form of the judgment delineated, and
the name of judgment expressed, which is afterwards yet
twice more repeated, vv. 21, 22, and v. 26. From this de­
scription it came that the Jews gave it the name of 'p'a Bi"1 and
Stay SO
’’*
!Bi"1
, the day o f judgment, and the day o f the great
judgment; whence, in the epistle of St. Jude, v. 6 , it is
called xçiaiç fieyâhjç Ttfiiçaç, the judgment o f the great day.
From the same fountain are derived those expressions in the
Gospel, where this day is intimated or described ; ‘The
Son of man shall corné in the clouds of heaven The Son
of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his holy
angels,’ forasmuch as it is said here, v. 1, ‘ Thousands
and thousands ministered unto him,’ &c., and that Daniel
saw, v. 13, ‘One like the Son of man coming with the
clouds of heaven, and he came unto the Ancient of days,
and they brought him (or, placed him) near him,’ &c.—
Hence St. Paul learned that ‘ the saints shall judge the
world,’ because it is said that ‘ many thrones were set,’
and v. 2 2 , by way of exposition, that ‘judgment was given
_ to the saints of the Most High.’ ”
Of the soundness of this view we are fully persuaded,
although we differ from the author as to the time of the
commencement of the ‘ great judgment,’ which he makes to be
yet future, at the time of the destruction of the fourth or
Roman beast, while we refer-it to the commencement of the
Gospel kingdom established at our Lord’s ascension. The
judgment runs parallel with the kingdom. Indeed, the very
term ‘judge,’ in Scriptural usage, implies as truly the exer­
cise of the royal as of thejudicial prerogative. The oracle
of Daniel announces the coming of the King and the set­
ting up of the kingdom of the saints, and nothing is clearer
from the tenor of the prophecy, than that the judgment there
spoken of is one that is to be prolonged over an extended
yGoogk
T H E SCRIPTURAL A ReU M SN T. 3 8 1
tract of centuries, as one form of the kingly sovereignty
which the Messiah, in conjunction with his saints, is to ex­
ercise during the whole period of the prevalence of the an­
tagonist dominion of the fourth Beast, and the Little Horn.
This, therefore, is ‘ the great judgment,' or ‘the great day
of judgment ’ of the Scriptures of truth— a protracted pro­
cess flowing on in parallel duration with the whole period of
the Christian dispensation. In the treatise of R. Menasseh
Ben Israel, “ De Resurrect. Mort.” p. 254, the author, com­
menting on Is. 2. 12-17, “ For the day of the Lord of hosts
shall be upon every one that is proud and lofty,” dtc., re­
marks : “ It is not to be doubted, as we shall demonstrate
in the sequel, that by the rrin1
’ 0 ‘
P, day o f the Lord, the pro­
phet intends the day ofjudgment, which is otherwise called
the day o f the resurrection o f the dead." Again, in another
part of the same treatise (Lib. 3. c. 2), he says, in explain­
ing Mai. 4. 5, “ That great and terrible day of the Lord is
the day o fjudgment, which shall be conjoined with the resur­
rection."
It will here be expedient to remount somewhat farther
back into biblical antiquity, and to show that even the an­
nouncements of Daniel himself are but the echo of the lead­
ing purport of the Old Testament oracles prior to his time,
and the result of the inquiry will be found to bring us to
still clearer apprehensions of the meaning of the term ‘judg­
m ent’ in its Scriptural relations.
It is never to be forgotten that the grand burden of Old
Testament prophecy is the Messianic kingdom. It is to the
establishment, the advancement, the universal prevalence,
and the essential glory of this kingdom, that the ancient pre­
dictions, as with lines of light, continually point. Among
the features by which this kingdom, as administered by its
exalted Theanthropic king, was to be distinguished, that of
‘ judgment’ stands conspicuous. But the sense of the term
in this connexion must evidently be determined by a recur­
rence to the usus loquendi of the sacred writers, and from
Digitized by Google
2 3 2 T H E DOCTRINE OP TH E RESURRECTION.
this it will appear thatjudging is but one branch or form of
reigning. The prerogatives of ruling and judging centre
in the same person, and form scarcely a different department
of the same office. The original Heb. aca shophat, is de­
fined by the lexicons tojudge, discern, determine, order, direct,
regulate, govern, and its Greek equivalent xpoeu, is often used
with the same latitude. Thus, 1 Sam. 8 . 20, “ We will
have a king over us, that we also may be like all nations,
that our king may judge us ( u a B O ) i . e. may exercise
kingly authority over us. So the Judges, Gideon, Samson,
Jephtha, and others, that presided over Israel prior to the
reign of Saul, not only officiated as judges, but also, in a
more general manner, as rulers, deliverers, protectors, aveng­
ers of the chosen people, in which character they are doubt­
less to be regarded as types of Christ in the exercise of his
royal dignity. The leading predictions concerning him
clearly evince that judgment is essentially connected with
the princely rule and government with which he was to be
invested, and they carry with them also the implication that
this is to be a continued office among or over the nations
which are to be brought into subjection to his authority.
In the citation of the following passages from the Psalms,
we take for granted their Messianic application. This will
be denied only by those who are largely leavened with the
German skepticism on this subject, and though we should not
hesitate, under other circumstances, to meet the full force of
the argument on the proper field, yet we cannot deem it here
necessary, in view of the probable sentiments of a majority
of our readers. They, we presume, will not refuse to grant
that the Psalms abound with incessant references to the
Messiah, which are not expressly certified as such by the
New Testament writers. In the following, which we deem
of this class, the implication runs all along through them,
that the judgment dr righteous government spoken of, is to
be exercised among men on earth, and not in another world.
Ps. 82. 8 , “ Arise, O God iudge the earth, for thou shall
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL AB0UM CNT.
inherit all nations.” Ps. 96. 13, “ For He cometh, for he
cometh to judge the earth; he shall judge the world with
righteousness, and the people with his truth.” Ps. 98. 9,
“ For the Lord cometh to judge the earth; with righteous­
ness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity.”
This, as appears from the context, v. 4, refers to a period
when “ all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of
God,” which certainly conducts us to the Gospel dispensa­
tion. Ps. 9. 8 , “ He shal\judge the world in righteousness,
he shall ministerjudgment to the people in uprightness.” Ps.
67. 4, “ O let the nations be glad, and sing for joy : for thou
shah judge the people righteously, and govern the nations
upon earth." Ps. 72. 1,2, 4, “ Give the king thyjudgments,
O God, and thy righteousness unto the king’s son. He shall
judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judg­
ments. . . . He shalljudge the poor of the people, he shall
save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces
the oppressor.” Isaiah, Jeremiah, Micah, and other pro­
phets, reiterate the same testimony. Mic. 4. 3, “ He shall
judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations afar
off.” Is. 11. 3, 4, “ He shall not judge after the sight of
his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of his ears; but
with righteousness shall hejudge the poor, and reprove with
equity for the meek of the earth: and he shall smite the
earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his
lips shall he slay the wicked.” Jer. 23. 5, “ Behold, a king
shall reign and prosper; and shall execute judgment and
justice in the earth.”
In all these passages, which are but specimens of multi­
tudes of others of similar import, we read the clear preinti­
mations of one grand character of the Messiah’s reign. It
was to be a dispensation ofjudgm ent; even as Christ him­
self says,— “ The Father hath given him authority to exe­
cute judgment.” And again, John 5. 22, “ The Father
judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment to the
Son.” As then the setting up of the kingdom of the Son of
Digitized by Googk
•84 THI D oom » W TUB BmUMTlOM.
min was, in fact, the commencement of this grand process
of judgment, which was to run parallel with its duration;
therefore, our Lord, in immediate prospect of that import*
ant era, declares, John 12.31, “ Now is thejudgment o f this
toorldi now shall the prince of this world be cast o u t i . e.,
this judgment is just upon the ere of entering on its accom»
plishment. This is but annonncing the fulfilment of the
Old Testament oracles touching this feature of his adminis­
tration, and the weight of the testimony is not at all abated
by the fact of occasional intimations that he declined being
recognized in the character of judge, especially in the case
of the woman taken in adultery, and of the two brethren
disputing about the inheritance, and when he said that he
came not to judge, but to sere the world. All this may be
consistently explained, on the ground that it was not so prop­
erly at hisfr e t as at Ysasecond coming, that he was to enter
upon the functions of this high dignity. But his second
coming commenced with that new order of things which is
in the main to be dated from the destruction of Jerusalem,
when the session of judgment took its beginning, which is
to be considered as continuing through the whole period of
the dispensation.
In this judicial administration it is moreorer the clear
teaching of both Testaments that the saints were to share
with Christ. Enoch prophesied, “ Behold, the Lord cometh
with myriads of his saints to execute judgment upon all.”
David says, Ps. 149. 5-9, that to ‘ execute the judgment
written is an honor which all the saints are to have.’
Isaiah also says, ch. 32. 1, “ Behold, a king shall reign in
righteousness, and princes shall rule injudgment." Thus,
too, in the passage already quoted from Daniel, “judgment
was given to the saints of the Most High,” and upon this is
founded the express declaration of Paul, 1 Cor. 6 . 2, 3, that
“ the saints shalljudge the world.” Nothing else than this
is implied in Rev. 2. 26, where it is said of the saints that
overcome, that they shall “ hare power over the nations, and
yGoogle
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 8 5
they shall rule them with a rod of iron ; as the vessels of a
potter shall they dash them in pieces.”
Now we deem the evidence decisive, that this economy of
‘judgment ’ was to commence synchronically with that pre­
dicted' com ing’ of Christ which is so splendidly set forth in
the vision of Daniel above referred to, where the Son of man
receives his kingdom from the Ancient of days. But let
it be borne in mind that this “ coming of the Son of man in
the clouds of heaven ” announced by Daniel, is precisely the
same coming with that announced by our Saviour in the
Gospels, especially Mat. 16. 27, 28 : “ For the Son of man
shall come in the glory of his Father, with his angels; and
then he shall reward every man according to his works.
Verily I say unto you, there be some standing here which
shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming
in his kingdom.” So again, Mat. 24. 34 : “ Verily I say
unto you, this generation shall not pass till all these
things be fulfilled.” So also, Mat. 10. 23 : “ Verily I say
unto you, ye shall not have gone over the cities of Israel
till the Son of man be come.”* We hold it to be utterly
impossible, upon fair canons of interpretation, to divorce
these predictions of Daniel and of Christ from a joint refer­
ence to one and the same coming, and that too a coming
that was to be realized in its incipient stages at the destruc­
tion of JeruKilem.t We are satisfied, indeed, that that event
• The words of Mark,eh. 8. 38, when viewed in the connexion,may
perhaps admit the construction which Lightfoot puts upon them : “ Who­
soever, therefore,shall be ashamed of me,and of my words,in this adulter­
ous and sinful generation, of him also shall the Son of man be ashamed,
when he cometh in the glory of his Father, and of the holy angels.” This
Lightfoot understands as implying that the threatened punishment should
eome upon the men of that generation. “ He suggests, with good reason,
that his coming in gloryshould be in the lifetime of some that stood there."
t “ The true solution of the difficulty seems to consist in a close at­
tention to the word which is supposed to indicate the complete fulfilm ent
of the prophecy in that generation. The original expression for the
13*
yGoogk
2 3 6 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
did not exhaust the import of this pregnant prophecy. We
doubt not that it embraces a grand series of events— a dis­
pensation, in fine—extending through the lapse of hundreds
of years, down to the period when the kingdoms of this world
shall become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ.
But the commencement of this train of occurrences is to be
dated from the destruction of Jerusalem. Then it was that
the ‘great judgment’ commenced, because then the ‘ king­
dom of the Messiah ’ took its open and manifested rise,
though in strict chronology it is to be. dated from the ascen­
sion. The ‘judgment’ and the ‘ kingdom,’ we repeat, can­
not be viewed apart from each other. The whole current
of ancient prediction represents them as identical, and
consequently, as the ‘judgment ’ of the nations, under the
figure of the sheep and the goats in the 25th of Matthew,
comes in immediate connexion with the display of the
‘ coming and kingdom ’ that is synchronical with the over­
throw of Jerusalem, there is, we conceive, no alternative
from the conclusion, that that judgment commenced at that
time, and has been going on ever since.
clause ‘till all these things be fulfilled,’ is lus Sr r a m r a m ytm rai. Now
the most proper and original signification of the verb ylrofm i is not to he
completely fulfilled, as it is rendered in the passage before us ; but it rather
signifies commencement running into subsequent continence o f action.
Accordingly the strict rendering of the clause we are now considering
ought to be, ‘ this generation shall not pass away till all these things shall
be, i. e. shall be fulfilling, or, shall begin to be.’ In confirmation of this
reasoning, it may be observed, that the phrase a Set yoteBai h rax ci, in Rev.
1. 1, is explained on the same principle by Vitringa, Doddridge, Wood-
house, Dr. Cressener, the Jesuit Ribera, and others. So in Mat. 8. 24,
Zcm/idi iicyas iyivero does not signify that Me storm was over, but was
begun. In Mat. 8. 16, we have the words ¿tpiai SI ycvofiivns, the evening
being come j in Mark, 6. 2, yevoytvov oaftflarov, the Sabbath being come.
John 8. 58, rplr APpad/i ytvloiat, before Abraham was born. John 13. 2,
Siirrov ycrofitrov, according to our version is rendered supper being ended ;
but according to Whitby, Doddridge, Macknight, Schleusner, See.,supper
being c om e.” Cunninghams on the Apocalypse, p. 313.
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 8 7
We are well aware how widely diverse is this view from
that which is generally entertained, and how naturally the
query will arise; ‘ Where then is any mention in the New
Testament of a general judgment, if not here Y To this
interrogatory every one must find an answer for himself, as
our object is to trace the origin of the expectation to its
genuine source, and to fix the true sense of certain promi­
nent passages which have indeed usually been regarded as
referring to it, but which appear to resolve themselves into
an entirely different application. If our construction of
these passages is not acceded to, it will devolve upon the
dissentient to propose some solution that will justify the
consistency of a hiatus of two thousand years between the
24th and 25th chapters of Matthew’s Gospel, and that too
when the connective t o w , then, evinces to demonstration
that the whole prophecy contained in these two chapters
flows on in one uninterrupted series. For ourselves we see
no possibility, under the guidance of sound hermeneutics,
ofavoidingthis construction, and for the sake ofthe consisten­
cy of revelation, we rather rejoice in the necessity that is laid
upon us, as it entirely harmonizes the general scheme.
h (t uo -»oo more recite our grand assumption, viz.,
that the basis of the New Testament doctrine of a general
judgment is the above quoted prediction of Daniel, announc­
ing at once the reigning and judging supremacy of Jesus
Christ in that kingdom which was established at his ascen­
sion, and which constitutes what is familiarly known as the
Christian dispensation. If this assumption be well founded,
our conclusion is irresistible, whatever conflict it may en­
gender in our previous notions. Nor can it be denied,
without denying at the same time a canon of paramount
importance in the interpretation of the New Testament, viz.,
that whatever relates to the distinguishing functions of
the Messiah, in the administration of his kingdom, is built
directly upon the Old Testament announcements to that
effect. There is certainly no principle of exposition in
Digitized by Google
reference to the New Testament more valid than that it
unfolds the true sense of the Old. The more perfectly we
can identify the two, the nearer do we come to the sound
interpretation of both. As to Daniel’s judgment being a
type, a préfiguration, of a genera] judgment at the end of
the world, to say nothing of the unscriptural sense hereby
ascribed to the phrase ‘ end of the world,’ the theory will be
seen to vanish at once into thin air when it is recollected,
that this very oracle of Daniel is itself the grand support of
such a judgment. Not indeed but that there are numerous
allusions interspersed through the New Testament to a
great judgment, but they will be found upon investigation to
be, in the main, mere off-shoots from the parent stock of
prediction in the present passage of the Old Testament
prophet. So when this prophecy of Christ is appealed
to as a proof of a day of genera] judgment, it is forgot­
ten that it is the designed explanation of a prophecy
which does not refer to such a judgment, but to an elon­
gated judicial process which flows on commensurate with
the kingly dominion of the Messiah in this world. One
will be surprised to find to what an extent this circular ar­
gumentation prevails on this subject.
The judgment tbcn, at>ove alluded to, of the sheep
and the goats, in which there is not a syllable of the resur­
rection, we affirm to be a prolopged process of judgment
going on from age to age in the boundaries of the Chris­
tian kingdom or church, the result of which is to dis­
criminate between the true and the nominal disciples of
Christ, each of which according to his character is dis­
missed at death to his eternal award in the world of retribu­
tion. This will fully account for the rule o f judgment
which is there brought to view,—viz., the doing good to the
disciples from a principle of love to the master— and no­
thing else will. The apostle is clear in the assurance, Rom.
8. 12, that “ they who have sinned without law, shall be
judged without law but love to God and our neighbor is,
3 8 8 T H E D O C T R IN E OP T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 289
according to Christ, the very essence of the law. This,
therefore, becomes necessarily the rule of judgment with
those who had the law.
O f the justness of this interpretation we now attempt
still farther proof. “ When the Son of man shall come in
his glory, and all the holy angels with him.” We have
already adduced evidence that the same language is applied
to the coming at the destruction of Jerusalem, when this
process of judgment may be said to have more-signally com­
menced. Our Lord, in announcing that event, says, Mat.
16. 27, “ For the Son of man shall come in the glory of
his Father, with his angels, and then he shall reward every
man according to his w o r k s i . e. shall institute a process
of judgment. Can there be a doubt that these expressions
describe the same event and the same time ? But the time
is the lifetime of that generation : “ Verily I say unto you,
there be some standing here which shall not taste o f death till
they see the Son o f man coming in his kingdom.” The use,
however, of the present participle ‘coming ’ seems to carry
with it an implication of an incipient coming, which was to
be indefinitely extended in its duration. Indeed a leading
designation of Christ is o tQxoperog, the coming one, i. e. he
who continues to come by his power and providence from
age to age. But his judging runs parallel with his com­
i 39 will fully appear in the course of our comments.*
“ Then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory.” Ac­
cording to the common view of this passage, the ‘ sitting ’
here mentioned is a temporary act for the accomplishment
of a temporary purpose. Our ordinary ideas of judgment
are drawn from the judicial usages among men, where tri­
bunals are set and occupied during terms, which being com­
pleted, the judge retires to resume his duties again at
• We wave the citation of a great many passages in proofofthis sense
of the ‘coming’ of Christ, from the fact that we have gone so fully into
the argument in our exposition of the 7th of Daniel in the pages of the
' Hierophant.’
Digitized by Googk
another time or another place, according to a fixed routine.
But this is entirely contrary to the prevailing sense of the
word sit (xa&igu) here employed. This denotes a perma­
nent and not an occasional or transient sitting.* Thus in
the passage in Daniel, on which the whole train of the pres­
ent prophecy is built, and to which it alludes, we are in­
formed, ch. 7.10, “ Thejudgment was set (x(>ni)Qiovixa&lat),
and the books were opened.” This imports that the tribu­
nal was constituted, that the designated judges permanently
took their seat; and as the context makes it clear that the
judgment upon the fourth Beast and the Little Horn was to
be protracted through a long course of ages, it is evident
that no restricted sense of the term can be admitted in this
connexion. The corresponding Hebrew term to which it
answers is ati;, signifying primitively to sit, but used in a
great majority of cases for dwelling, inhabiting, perma­
nently residing. Thus Judg. 9. 41, “ And Abimelech
dwelt (:sJi —Qr. Ixa&lmv) at Arumah.” 1 Sam. 23. 14,
“ And David abode (atj^—Gr. kta&iotv) in the wilderness
in strong holds, and remained —Gr. exa&Tjjo) in a
mountain,” &.c. 2 Kings 25. 24, “ Fear not to be ser­
vants of the Chaldees; dwell (tati—Gr. xu&toarf} >« me
land, and serve the king of Babylon.”
These examples of the ordinary usage might be in­
definitely multiplied, but it will be more satisfactory to
see the usus loqutndi illustrated in respect to an official
or authorative sitting, whether regal or judicial. Prov.
20. 8 , “ A king that sitteth in the throne o f judgment
(■
)■
!“! xsa bs aig-p rjbe—Gr. xa&hrtj) scattereth away all
evil with his eyes.” Is. 16. 5, “ In mercy shall the throne
be established, and he shall sit (aia;—Gr. xa&iujcu) upon it
in truth, in the tabernacle of David, judging and seeking
* “ Sedere inteliigite habitare, quomodo dicimus de quocunque hom-
ine,(in ilia patria sedit, per tres annos/ ” understand by sitting, habita­
tion, as we say of any one thal *he sat in that country three years'
Jerome Symb. ad Catechum., Lib. 1. p. 1388.
2 9 0 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 9 1
judgment, and hasting righteousness.” A case somewhat
Btrikingly in point occurs also in respect to thrones : Ps.
122. 5, “ For there are set thrones o f judgment (¡isc;
EBsirb rvittOS—Gr. ixii txa&ioav &govoi tig xgioir),” implying
obviously a permanent allocation. Ps. 9. 4, “ Thou sattest
(M e ;— Gr. ixa&ioag) in the throne judging right.” Ps.
29. 10, “ The Lord sitteth (sis^—Gr. xa&uixat) king for­
ever.” Zech. 6.13, “ And he shall bear the glory, and shall
sit (33J—Gr. xa&iuiai) and rule upon his throne.” In all
these cases no doubt can remain as to the import of perma­
nency being essentially involved in the term. On reference
to New Testament usage, we find the same sense abundantly
sustained. Mat. 20. 21, “ She saith unto him, Grant that
these my two sons may sit (xadiotootv), the one on thy right
hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom.” Rev.
20. 4, “ And I saw thrones, and they sat (ixa&ioav) upon
them, and judgment was given unto them.” This is at
any rate a sitting of a thousand years, whatever be the true
location of that period. Mark 16. 19, “ So then, after the
Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heav­
en, and sat (fxa&ioi) at the right hand of God.” This, as
already intimated, we conceive to be the same ‘sitting’ and
sitting upon the same throne with that which is spoken of
in the chapter under consideration. The theory of Christ’s
occupying a throne distinct from that of his Father, is not,
that we can find, sustained by the unequivocal evidence of a
single passage. Rev. 3. 21 comes the nearest to it, but it
is there declared that Christ’s throne is the same with his
Father’s, and the saints’ sitting with him upon it merely
intimates that they shall be in some sense associated with
him in his royal supremacy. Christ sits upon the throne of
God in the administration of his kingdom both as king and
judge. But this is not a throne visible to the outward eye,
neither is the Judge, nor have we any evidence that either
of them ever will be. On the contrary, the express intima­
tion of Scripture is directly the reverse. Heb. 10. 12,
Digitized by Google
2 9 2 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
“ But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins,
f o r e v e r sat doum (ixa&lotv) on the right hand o f God."
This is the seat which he is permanently to occupy. From
this seat he administers the ‘judgment* which distinguishes
his reign, and the idea of a future personal coming forth
and manifestation on the earth is in our view entirely ab­
horrent to the scope of this and numerous other scriptures.
A spiritual kingdom is administered by a spiritual power.
But, in order to put this point still farther beyond the
reach of doubt, we will briefly advert to some of those pas­
sages which speak of Christ’s ‘ sitting at the right hand of
God,’ which, if we mistake not, will be seen clearly to yield
the inference, that this phrase denotes a permanent session,
and that whatever judgment he exercises emanates from
that very seat which he assumed at his ascension, and
which he never leaves. The parent text to which they
are all to be referred, occurs Ps. 110. 1 : “ The Lord said
unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I have
made thine enemies thy fo o ts to o li. e., he was to sit
during the whole course of events that should result in
bringing all his enemies into subjection, which naturally
implies a long lapse of time, as Paul says, Heb. 2. 8 , “ We
see not yet all things put under him.” That this truly
refers to the Messiah, is clear from Rabbinical as well as
from apostolical testimony. “ R. Joden in the name ofR.
Chama, said, “ that in the time (or world) to come God would
place Messias the King at his right hand, as it is written
Ps. 110. 1.” Midrash Tillim, Ps. 18. 3. So Moses Haddar-
san on Gen. 18 : “ Hereafter the holy and blessed God shall
set the King Messias on his right hand, as it is written,
Ps. 110. 1.” This was an honor never promised to nor
conferred upon any being but the Messiah ; “ For to which
of his angels said he at any time, Sit on ray right hand until
I make thine enemies thy footstool.” But our Lord could
confidently say to the chief priests and elders, “ I say unto
you, hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on tht
yGoogk
TH E I C U m i A L ARGUMENT. 2 9 3
right hand o f power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.’’
There are two points involved in this passage especially de­
manding attention. (I.) The original phrase for here­
after is ax iget, which, in the parallel passage, Luke 22. 69,
is ¿no toS rvr, from now, most unequivocally implying the
speedy and almost immediate occurrence of the event an­
nounced. Kuinoel remarks that it is tantamount to non ita
multum post, not so long after; and quotes an ancient
scholiast, who expresses it by ptra pixQov, after a little.
To a competent judge of Greek nothing can be more un­
doubted than that our Lord here speaks of an event which
was speedily to transpire, and that it can only be by a
violent wresting of the genuine import of the words to make
them refer to something that was to occur ages subsequent
to the announcement. We insist with an earnestness little
short of vehemence upon this sense of the phrase, as we
feel at liberty, in maintaining ground that will naturally be
vigorously contested, to fortify ourselves by every fair de­
fence. The interpretation we have now proposed will be
seen to be a tower of strength to our main position. (2 .)
The ‘ sitting on the right hand of power ’ and the ‘ coming
in the clouds of heaven,’ are evidently spoken of as synchroni-
eai. It is during the time of this session that our Lord
comes, and comes too, in some sense, in glory; for in Mat.
16. 27, this same coming is described as a ‘ coming in the
glory of the Father and with his angels.’ The inference
therefore is plainly irresistible, that, as this regal sitting com­
menced at the ascension, and as the,judicial prerogative com­
mences at the same time with the regal, of which it is in fact
hut another form, they must run on from that point parallel
with each other, the interval between the ascension and the
destruction of Jerusalem being too small to be of account in
the grand scheme. But nearly with the commencing date of
this session at the Father’s right hand (ano noivvr, extemplo,
forthwith), synchronizes the ‘ coming in glory,’ at which
also our Saviour expressly assures us, Mat. 25. 31, the pro-
Digitized by Googk
2 9 4 T H E D O C T R IN E OF T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
cess of ‘ judgment’ is to commence : “ When the Son of
man shall come in bis glory, and all the holy angels with
him, then shall he sit on the throne of his glory; and before
him shall be gathered all nations.” Now what can be more
certain than that this ‘sitting upon the throne of his glory,’
is nothing else than the sitting at his Father’s right hand,
which commenced at the ascension, and which is of such
a nature that he is still said to ‘ come ’ at the same time 1
Obviously, therefore, neither the ‘ coming,’ nor the
‘ reigning,’ nor the ‘judging,’ can be personal and visi­
ble, but must be understood as constituting a spiritual and
providential administration. Christ’s sitting at the right
hand of God is but his plenary investiture with the dig­
nity and dominion pertaining to his mediatorial office;
and this office, in its various departments, he continues to
exercise onwards from his ascension through the different
ages of the church, in its militant state on earth.* It is to
the earthly and current state of the church that the Scrip­
tures have reference in such passages as the following:
Eph. 1. 19-22, “ According to the working of his mighty
power, which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him
from the dead, and set Aim at his own right hand in the hea­
venly places, far above all principality, and power, and
might, and dominion, and every name that is named, not
only in this world, but in that which is to come: and hath
put all things under his feet, and gave him to be head
over all things to his church.” The inference is certainly
6trong from all this that the ‘sitting at the Father’s right
hand ’ and the ‘judgment ’ are synchronies], and refer to
the administration of an earthly kingdom, and that a per­
* “ Christ sitting at the right hand of God, is manifested and declared
to be the Great Judge of the quick and the dead. Thus to sit doth not
signify any peculiar inclination or flection, any determinate location or
position of the body, but to be in heaven w ith permanence o f habitation,
happiness of condition, regular and judiciary power.” P earson on the
Creed, Art. VI. p.420. -
Digitized by Google
TH E BOBITTUKAL ARGUMENT.
tonal and visible manifestation is not to be understood in
regard to either.
It appears, then, that the genuine import of the phrase
goes clearly to establish our construction of the judgment
here announced as an extended period of judicial adminis­
tration. For surely, if our Lord actually took his seat on
the throne of judgment at the time suggested, we have no
reason to suppose that he has ever yet abandoned it. The
judgment must still be proceeding; and this consideration
solves, at once, the purport of the ensuing clause : “ And be­
fore him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate
them one from another, as a shepherd divideth the sheep
from the goats.’’ 4 These ‘ nations’ are nations in the flesh
—the nations of Christendom—forming the great body of
his nominal kingdom. These nations (t&rij, Gentiles)*
are the perpetual subjects of a judgment administered by the
application of the inspired word, as the great test of moral
character, and which is continually discriminating between
the righteous and the wicked, and assigning, with the most
unerring equity, to each individual his eternal destiny. Ac­
cordingly, it is said, in the close, “ And these shall go atoatf
(antktvooncu) into everlasting punishment, and the right­
eous into life eternal.” What can this ‘ going away’ import
but departure from this life into the joys of heaven or the
woes of hell 1 On what other grounds can this expression
be predicated of the heirs of life ? From whom—from what
— do they ‘ go away,’ but from the mortal body 1 It is clear,
in our view, that the terminus a quo is the present world,
where this stupendous process of judgment is all the while
• The original word occurs 1 6 4 times in the New Testament, in 9 3
of which it is rendered by ‘ Gentiles,’ in 9 4 by ‘ nations, in 5 by ‘heathen,’
and in 2 by ‘ people.’ The allnsion is predominantly to ncn-Jeteish na­
tions. “ Lxx. satis constanter os reddunt >ats, ■vij fflw, Vulg. gens;
unde etiam in N. T., ri 19» a opponuntur TW > a ;j 0 i o 9 ’I ir p a i/i, Luke 2 . 3 2 . ”
G etenius.
Digitized by Googk
THE DOCTEIME OF T i l B M V »B C T IO N .
enacting, and from wbieb eacb one ¡b dismissed to happiness
or misery, in another world, according to hia predominant
character. As to the ‘gathering ’ of these nations ‘ toge­
ther,’ we fully accord with the reasonings of Dr. Duffield
(Dissert, on the Proph., p. 344) on this point, however we
may differ from him on others, that the term does not denote
local assemblage. As we regard it as unquestionable, that
the term ‘ nations ’ in the context refers to nations in Hi
flesh—a term not applied to the dead, who are not judged in
a national but in an individual capacity*—so as a necessary
sequence to this, their being ‘ gathered together ’ does not
imply a local concourse, but simply their being, as it were,
in fu ll view— under the comprehensive survey—of the Om­
niscient Judge. This idea is amply confirmed by the general
usage of Scripture. Gen. 49. 10, “ The sceptre shall not
depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between, his feet,
until Shiloh come; and unto him shcUl the gathering o f the
nations be.” Ps. 102. 19-22, “ For he bath looked down
from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the Lord
behold the earth . . . to declare the name of the Lord
in Zion, and his praises in Jerusalem; when the people are
gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the Lord.”
Here is a gathering before the Lord while he occupies his
seat in heaven, just as the nations are gathered before Christ
while he sits on his throne at the Father’s right hand. So,
in the explicit language of Paul, Eph. 1. 10, “ That in the
fulness of time he might gather together in one all things
in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on
earth.” These passages are far from implying a local con­
gregation.
The view we have now presented affords, we think, the
* Rev. 20.12,13, “ And I saw the dead,small and great, stand before
God, and the books were opened . . . and they were judged eeery
man (frame) according to his works.” It is evident that two entirely
different judgments are here described.
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 2 9 7
tru« explanation of our Saviour’s promise to his twelve
chosen disciples: Mat. 19. 28, “ Verily I say unto you,
that ye which have followed me in the regeneration, when
the Son of man shall sit upon the throne of his glory, ye
also shall sit upon twelve thrones,judging the twelve tribes
of Israel.” There is here, certainly, no reason to doubt
that Christ’s ‘throne of glory ’ is the same with that before
spoken of—his ‘ sitting’ upon it is the same—the disciples’
sitting upon their thrones is, chronologically, commensurate
with his sitting upon his—and, consequently, the ‘ regener­
ation,’ during which they were to occupy their thrones, is
but another name for that new order o f things which was to
be introduced by the Gospel, and to constitute the leading
character of the Christian dispensation. Conceiving this,
then, as the general drift of the announcement, ‘ the twelve
tribes of Israel’ must be deemed a kind of figured or pro­
phetic designation of the nominal Christian church, in the
midst of which the apostles are to be conceived as enthroned
and continually exercising judgment by means of their
writings embodied in the sacred canon.* To the same
* It is an important remark, in this connexion, that three parties are
to be recognized in the account of the judgment in the 25th of Matthew.
We have (1) the Judge, (2) the nations, (3) the brethren of Christ. “ Inas­
much as ye have not done it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have
not done it unto me.” Now it is not said that these *brethren’
formed a part of the nations arraigned. What can we understand,
then, but that they were sitting in conjunction with him in the seat of
judgment? We shall find, hereafter, still farther evidence that the saints
are not represented as the subjects of judgment, and the fact is undoubt­
edly sustained by the import of the Saviour’s words, John 5. 24, “ He
that heareth-my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting
life, and shall not come into judgm ent (xpltriy), but is passed from death
unto life.” The term, it is true, is rendered ‘condemnation’ in our ver­
sion, nor do we, by any means, deny that the sense indicated by that term
is involved in the passage, but it is, nevertheless, the established word for
’judgment’ in the New Testament, and there is nothing to forbid the ac­
ceptation we have here assigned to it.
Digitized by Google
29S T n E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
thing there is probably an allusion, though less restricted,
in 1 Cor. 6 .2 : “ Do ye not know that the saints [as well asthe
elect twelve] shalljudge the world?” The ultimate basis of
this is undoubtedly the 7th of Daniel, where the xgtrfgwy,
the judging body, is represented as composed of myriads of
the saints. What is said in the next verse of ‘judging
angels’ is of equivalent scope. Prophecy dealing in sym­
bolic diction represents men as angels, particularly official
men, as the ‘ angels of the churches’ in the Apocalypse are
the pastors, or the ministry of the churches, and such kinds
of angels as these the saints were to judge. So again, in the
mystic style of the Apocalypse, we find the nominal Chris­
tian commonwealth represented, ch. 7. 4, by the twelve
tribes of Israel, out of which the 144,000 were sealed.
The term Israel, as a mystic designation of the Christian
church, is of frequent occurrence in the epistles of Paul,
the light of which is to be reflected upon the enigmas of the
Apocalypse.* Thus, Gal. 3. 29, “ If ye are of Christ, then
* “ The sitting ofChrist upon the throne ofDavid may, on the one hand,
be reckoned a real succession to David’s place, inasmuch as, for the purpose
offulfilling the divine promises made to David, Christ actually sprang from
David, in that same land which his fatherhad possessed, and on account of
this peculiar relationship with the Jewish people, in the first place thought
proper to present himselfparticularly to them as theirking so long expected
and desired, and announce to them the approach of his kingdom. But on
the other hand, the government of David, held by mere mortal men, for
a brief space of time, and having jurisdiction only over a small portion of
the earth, is so far different from the eternal and widely extended empire
of Christ, that the throne of Christ cannot be called the throne of David
except figuratively, inasmuch as that divine government over the Israel­
ites, which was transferred to David and his posterity, was a shadow and
image of the divine government over the universe, conferred upon that
man who sprung from the stock of David. Which being established, it
follows, that as Christ sits noton the throne of David itself,but on its anti­
type, so also the Israelites, over whom Christ reigns, are not only the
Israelites themselves, but the antitypes of this commonwealth, i. e., the
whole commonwealth of God,and, in a certain peculiar sense, his church.”
Stores Dissert, on Mean, o f “ Kingdom of Heaven,” § VI.
yGoogk
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 2 9 9
are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise.”
Gal. 6. 16, “ As many as walk according to this rule, peace
b# upon them, and upon the Israel o f God." Eph. 2. 12,
13, 19, “ Ye that were without Christ, aliensfrom the com­
monwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenant of prom­
ise, are now brought nigh by the blood of Christ . . . .
and are no more strangers and foreigners, butfellow citizens
with the saints.” Out of these mystic twelve tribes of Israel,
shadowing forth the whole professing church in the Roman
empire, an election of 144,000 was to be made, and this elec­
tion constituted all along the Apocalyptic history, which
the history of the church, the true Israel, in contradisfinc-
tion from the professing Israel.* •
And let us here remark that it is to this very sealing of
the elect Israel here shadowed forth, which is spread over a
wide lapse of time, that we conceive allusion to be made in
these words of Christ: “ And he shall send his angels with
a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together
his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the
other.” These ‘ angels’ are the ministers of the everlasting
gospel, and the ‘trumpet’ is a collective term for the seven­
fold series of trumpets mentioned in the Apocalypse in con­
nexion with the sounding of which the preaching of the
gospel and the gathering of the elect was to be carried on
through the whole period of the Christian dispensation.t
* See this point elaborated with pre-eminent ability, and established
upon an impregnable basis, in the “ Horee Apocalypticee” of the Rev. E.
B. Elliott, published in London, 1844—a work which no one can well
read without being grateful for having lived in the age which produced it.
t “ When Jerusalem shall be reduced to ashes, and that wicked nation
cut off and rejected, then shall the Son of man send his ministers with
the trumpet of the gospel, and they shall gather together his elect of the
several nations, from the four corners of heaven: so that God shall not
want a church, although that ancient people of his be rejected and cast off;
but that Jewish church being destroyed, a new church shall be called out
of the Gentiles.” Lightfoot Heb. if Talm. Exercit. on Mat. 24 31.
Digitized by Google
3 0 0 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
This ‘ gathering,’ however, does not here, any more than
in the case of the ‘ nations’ before the throne of tl»3 Son of
man, imply a local assemblage. It is a term simply indica­
tive of their enrolment into the ranks of the faithful, and is in
fact equivalent to the sealing in the more figured style of the
prophet. In both cases the brief symbolical prediction
swells out in the fulfilment into an extended course of events
embracing centuries of time. This is the genius of inspired
prophecy. This forms the grand canon of its interpretation.
Nor can we doubt that the attainment of satisfactory results
in the field of prophetic investigation will depend upon the
degree in which this principle is recognized as sound and
unquestionable.
CHAPTER X.
The First Resurrection and the Judgment o f the Dead.
W e now proceed to avail ourselves of the principle and
the results brought to view in the preceding chapter, by ap­
plying them to a passage shrouded in the thickest folds of
symbolical darkness, with some hopes to “ pluck out the heart
of its mystery.” We allude to the twentieth chapter of the
Apocalypse containing the account of the Millennial reign
of Christ and the saints, termed “ the first resurrection,"
and of the *judgment of the dead ’ before the great white
throne. Our object is to show that what is there termed
' the first resurrection ’ affords, when correctly interpreted, no
evidence whatever of the resurrection o f the body. As the
whole system of prophetic Eschatology, when rightly under­
stood, must form a harmonious whole, it becomes all impor­
tant to determine how far the oracle before us may be made
consistent with the views already presented of the meaning
yGoogk
T H E SCRirTÜK A L ARGUMENT. 301
ofother passages relative to the Resurrection and the Judg­
ment. W ith a view to this we observe,
(1.) T h at the Apocalypse in general contains but little
in the way o f announcement that is absolutely new. The
title of the book itself—‘Apocalypse,’ i. e. unveiling—carries
the implication of its purport. It is the disclosure of the
inner hidden sense of the mysteries, i. e. the symbolical
things of the Old Testament. Thus Babylon the great, the
harlot mother of abominations, is the substantiated truth
of what is contained in Isaiah respecting the Babylon whose
character and catastrophe he describes. So the vision of
the white horse bearing the celestial champion with blood­
stained garments is thz fulfilled verity of the warrior coming
from Bozrah clad in similar apparel, and performing sim­
ilar achievments. And so of numerous other items which
might easily be specified. This unveiling is indeed man­
n ed in such a manner as not to dispense with the use of
symbols. It is seldom made in plain literal language; but
the symbols are of a nature capable of being understood,
especially by aid of the express interpretations which are
occasionally interspersed ; and as tbe book is in the main
a sort of pictorial history of the church in a continuous
chain, it is supposed that a careful study of the history
will leave no great difficulty in the application of the sym­
bols.
(2.) Assuming the above as a postulate, it follows that
wherever a striking parallelism is discovered between the ut­
terances of the older prophets and of John, the presumption
is that the inditing Spirit intended that the two should be
regarded as of identical import. The imagery of Isaiah,
Ezekiel, and Daniel, is not merely accommodated to the
purposes of John, but he is to be regarded as the veritable
expounder of the true-meant sense of the Spirit as expressed
- in the shaded diction of his predecessors. In accordance
with this we remark,
(3.) That the ‘judgment’ portrayed in the opening of
14
Digitized by Google
the present vision is identical with that of Daniel as related
in his seventh chapter. This we infer from its general
scope and character, and from the parallelism of the lan­
guage in which it is described. Mede’s argument on this
subject is in our view conclusive. “ The kingdom of the Son
of Man, and of the.saints of the Most High, begins in Daniel,
when the greatjudgment sits. But the kingdom of the Apoc­
alypse, wherein the saints reign with Christ a thousand years,
is the same with the kingdom of the Son, of Man and saints
of the Most High, in Daniel: therefore it begins also at the
great judgment.” He then presents the following tabella-
ted view of the parallelism between the two prophecies,
which is undoubtedly well founded.
3 0 3 TH E DOCTRINE OS TUB BE U JERECTION.
Dan. 7.
V. 9. I beheld till the
thrones were pitched down
(i. e. till the judges sat).
22. And judgment was
given to the saints of the
Most High.
And the saints possessed
the Kingdom (viz. with the
Son of Man, who came in
the clouds, v. 13).
John, 20.
V. 4. 1 saw thrones, and
they sat upon them.
And judgment (i. e. au­
thority tojudge, B.) was given
unto them.
And the saints lived and
reigned with Christ a thou­
sand years.*
The judgment here described we take to be the same ;
and eertainly if it be not the same, some adequate reason
must be assigned for the community of phrase in which the
* It is, however, to be borne in mind, that as in Daniel the saintf
reign is not lim ited to a thousand years, so neither is that mentioned in
John. The thousand yearsis merely one grand department of their reiga
severed off from the rest as a kind of Jewish Sabbath (Saturday) of the
world’sgreat week—as it was accordingto their reckoning—whereas the
New Jerusalem that follows answers rather to the Christian eightb-dsy
Sabbath,only it is a Sabbath'tbat “ ne’er breaksup.” It is this which prop­
erly constitutes Daniel’s everlasting kingdom of the.saints.
Digitized by Google
two are set forth. But the judgment of Daniel assuredly
commences aynchroaically with the commencement of
Christ’s kingdom, and flows on with the flax of hie earthly
sovereignty during the Gospel age. The judgment of John
therefore m ast be assigned to the same period. The obvi­
ous inference from this is, that the Millennium of John must
beInferred to a past and not a future period of history. It
il-Merely -the designation of one illustrious portion of the
reSjgtk o f Christ during the dispensation, that commenced at
his, ipanguration as king of Zion, of which the second .
Psalm recites the decree. It is not necessary indeed to
maintain that the thousand years is to be dated, with punc­
tilious exactness, from the very epoch of his commencing
kingdom. A considerable margin of time may be allowed
both before and after the lapse of this Apocalyptic Chiliad,
for preceding and subsequent events; but what we confi­
dently affirm is, that it enters into and forms a part of this
‘great day of judgment’ which has already extended over
the space of 1800 years. This follows, in our view, irresist­
ibly from the legitimate interpretation of the 7th of Daniel.
We have adduced, we think, irrefragable evidence, in our
commentary on that book, that the sitting judgment there
described does cover the period of the Christian dispensa­
tion down to the era of the destruction of the Fourth Beast,
or tbe Roman empire, when the Gospel kingdom begins
more signally to assume its predicted character of univer­
sality. Consequently, as the sitting of the Millennial judg­
ment is described in precisely equivalent terms, we know of
no possible mode of avoiding the conclusion of the identity
of the two. The stress of the proof evidently depends upon
the correctness of the interpretation we have given of the
true sense of Daniel’s oracle ; and to that we refer, as we
cannot introduce it in txtenso in the present connexion.*
TilK SCRIPTVRXL AR««1HNT. 3 0 8
* We may perhaps leam from the view now presented what opinion
to form ofthe doctrine of thepre-milUnnial advent o f Christ. The theory
Digitized by Google
304 TU E DOCTRINE OF T B E RESURRECTION.
Bot in order to present more distinctly our views of the
bearing and relations of the whole subject, we will insert
those portions of the chapter involving the main points.
R ev. XX. 4-6.
OR.
K d t ¿¡do* 9qivovg ' xai i-
xuOioav in avrovg, xai xqi-
f t a ido9ij avroXg • xai t a g tyv-
ja.g t w * nsneXixiOfisvio* Sià
• tri* /utQTVQÎa* Iijoov xai dta
to* Xoyo* tov 9eev, xai oiti-
*tg ov TtQogexvrtjaa* to ûtjQÎ-
o* ovde t\* eixova avtoiv xai
ovx iXaßov to zaçayfia ini to
[lirionov xai ini tyv %üqa ai-
tmv, xai êÇijoa* xai ißaoiXsv-
oa* fistà tov X qustov tà
y£Ua h y . _
Oi de Xotnoi tâ* vexçü*
ovx Vj]<sav ¿XQi reXso&ÿ tà
XiXia tzy avril y àrcurzaaig
h ^ f ,
Maxagiog xai ayiog o ex’
»*
fitQog sv rÿ ¿vaaraoei tÿ nçco-
ty ’ ini tovttov ô devregog
iïavarog ovx i%u sÇovaiav,
¿XX’ saovxai ieçeîg t o v 9 soi
xai t o v X qiotov, xai ßaoiXev-
aovat [ter avrov y&ta try.
ENO. VERS.
And I saw thrones, and they
sat upon them, and judgment
was given unto them: and 1
saw the souls of them that were
beheaded for the witness of
Jesus, and for the word of God,
and which had net worshipped
the beast, neither his image,
neither had received his mark
upon their foreheads, or in
their hands: and they lived
and reigned with Christ a
thousand years.
But the rest of the dead lived
not again until the thousand
years were finished. This is
the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he th a t
hath part in the f ir s t resurrec­
tion : on such the second death
hath no power, but they shall
be p rie s tB of God and of Christ,
ana shall reign with him a
thousand y e a r s .
in our judgment is scriptural, and of course irrefutable. The Saviour’s
second advent must, we conceive, be pre-m illtnnial; for, as we under­
stand the drift of prophecy, that advent commenced at the destruction of
Jerusalem, according to his own declaration. But it was not personal,
as every one will admit. Still, as we conceive the Millennium long
since to have passed, our concession leaves us as far as ever from being
classed among the disciples of Mede, and the advocates of what is gener­
ally termed the system of Millenarianiem. Either they or we are the
defenders of an enormous prophetical anachronism, and Time alone per­
haps can determine which. To time we refer the decision.
Digitized by Google
THK SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 0 5
We have here the plain intimation of a ‘judgment’
which is to sit dnring the lapse of the thousand years; and
the inference is too obvious to be questioned, that the occu­
pants of the judgment-thrones are the same with the ‘souls
of them that were beheaded.’ The employment moreover
of the term ¿¡¡uallivam ’ shows that the re ig n in g is combined
with the ju d g in g function in their persons, as it is also in
that of Christ. The conformity of the phrase to the Greek of
Daniel is very striking. Thus Dan. 7 9, ol tyovoi (idthjoar,
the thrones were s e t; v. 14, uitm iSu&ej jj «p/ij, to him the
governm ent w as g iv e n ; and in v. 2 2 , xul to xoi/jm tltu xiy uyloi$
v fto io v , a n d he gaveju d g m e n t to the saints o f the M ost H ig h ,
This clearly identifies th e ‘judgment’ of the two prophets.
Another point of importance is the terms by which these
‘souls’ are characterized. They are first spoken of as those
who were beheaded (ntntXexioptrm'). The origin of the
word is nilfxvi, an axe, the well known badge of the office
of the Roman Lictors, which naturally refers us to the mar­
tyrs who perished at a period when the axe was the chief
instrument of execution, and this of course carries us back
to a very early era of Christianity, when the power of the
Pagan Emperors was in the ascendant. Another character­
istic is their not having *worshipped the Beast,’ This
again transports us to the past, to the time when the Roman
Beast, prior to the age of Charlemagne, was in the height
of his power; for this beast received his ‘ deadly wound' in
the reign of Angustulus, A. D. 480. The martyrs of that
period are therefore here alluded to. But this ‘ deadly
wound ’ was healed, and the Beast himself revived in the
animation of his image, upwards of three hundred years after,
in the reign of Charlemagne; so that we have again the
designation of another class of martyrs who did not ‘ worship
the image of the Beast, nor receive his mark upon their fore­
heads or in their hands,’ which conducts us to a period still
later, when the ecclesiastical form of the Roman Empire was
Digitized by Googk
established. Yet these soreral classes all ‘ lived,’ in the sense
Soon to be explained, within the limits of the specified tboa-
sand years, which most necessarily be thrown back for their
commencing period to a very early epoch of the church.
O n the supposition that the Millennium of John is yet future
and coincident with the seventh thousand years from the
creation, we hold it to be impossible to assign a satisfactory
reason why the saints Hen livin g should be characterized
by attributes that pertain to the pious of another and entire­
ly different period; for we strenuously maintain that it is the
same persons who live, and reign, sad judge, end are behead­
ed, and all too at precisely He seme time. They five in the
midst of and notwithstanding their being put to death, as we
shall more fully evince in the sequel, and this, as far as we
can perceive, absolutely necessitates the conclusion that the
peribd in question is past.
These martyred but quickened ‘ souls ’ we are told *lived
and reigned w i t h C h r i s t ,’ i. e., they were assumed into a
joint regency with him during the period in question. But
the r e ig n in g p o w e r of Christ continues in uninterrupted ex­
ercise on the earth fr o m th e d a te o f h is a scen sio n , and as he
-governs his kingdom by a s p ir itu a l and not a p e rso n a l pres­
ence—as his administration emanates from his resurrection-
state—so bis saints are here represented as sharing with him
in a s p ir itu a l and re su rre c tio n dignity. Though they be­
come the victims of Pagan and Papal persecution, and seal
their testimony with their blood, yet their higher and truer
life their enemies cannot reach. In them is made good the
Saviour’s declaration, “ I am the resurrection end the life:
he th a t b e lie ve tk in m e, th o u g h he w ere d ea d , y e t s h a ll he liv e ;
a n d he th a t liv e th a n d b elieveth in m e s h a ll n ever d ie .” This
was the life lived by the millennial martyrs.
We have, then, as We Conceive* in this chapter, a con­
nected view both of the resurrection and the judgment ex­
tending over the space of a millennium of the reigning supre­
macy of Jesus Christ, the precise te r m in i of which we are
3 0 6 T H E jS O O T M N R O P' T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
Digitized by Google
T H * « « I W O T A l ARGUMENT.
not competent, nor do we deem it necessary, to fix with ab­
solute precision.* It is a matter of more importance to en­
deavor to determine the grounds on which the state of the
reigning and judging saints is here termed “ the first resur­
rection.” T he true solution, We think, is to be brought
from our previous exposition of Daniel 12. 2, “ Many of
them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake,” &o.
This, we have aimed to show, points mainly to a process of
moral or spiritual quickening which extends itself over a
prolonged duration included in the Messianic reign.t We
do not question, indeed, that a national, and even a corpo­
realresuscitation, in the limited sense before explained, may
be alluded to in thè words of the prophet. Bat all such ful­
filments we regard as mere external and sensible types of a
grand spiritual resurrection which was to distinguish a
prominent period ofthe Qoepel kingdom, running on through
centuries of time» and terminating at last, upon the over-
* J. MaWk,* dislingUijihed drrine of Leyden, of the last eentnry, thus
ezpremcc hhoself upon tins subject: "W e believe that a space perhaps
about a thnnmnd years is intended: which began with the birth of Christ,
orwith his personal ministry, or at his resurrection, or even with the reign
ofConstantine, or at every one ofthese in succession, and flowed on till it
broke forth into Antichristian and Mohammedan impiety, spreading more
»tadstHl m
ore. •Satan wte then bound byChrist more closely than before,
by being impeded in sednCing the nations; martyrs and other believers, as
it respects their souls, living and reigning with Christ on his celestial
throne, and forward to all eternity ; while the other dead lived not again
in a similar way at death, nor before it in a saving conversion on this
earth.”
t “ And here it is well worth the observing, what another wresting of
plain words Grotins presents ns withal, about the ' awaking of the dead,’
Dan. 12. 2. He would have the heathen Porphyry to be the best inter­
preter of these words, who makes the rising of the dead to be nothing but
the return of some persecuted Jews; and yet both Grotius and Porphyry
confess, that the ‘ words are very wonderfully and artificially put together,
to hint at the mystery of the resurrection f so wonderfully, indeed, as it is
to be admired how they can be made to intend any thing else.” C rttten-
«•’* Demotut. o f tAe Apoe. p. 78.
Digitized by Googk
8 0 6 TH E DOCTRINE OF T H E BESURRECTION.
throw of the Roman power, civil and ecclesiastical in its
universal establishment over the earth, which is the grand
finale of all prophecy, the “ finishing of the mystery of God
for as to any such event as the p h y s ic a l d e stru c tio n of the
globe which we inhabit, or the p h y s ic a l p a s s in g a w a y of the
heavens, we are constrained to acknowledge that w e have
sought the evidence of it in vain throughout the oracles of
inspiration. No language to this effect can possibly be
more express than that which teaches the contrary. “ Who
laid the foundations of the earth, th a t i t sh o u ld n o t be re­
m oved f o r e v e r." “ One generation passetb away, and
another generation cometh ; b u t th e e a rth a b id e th f o r e ve r."
“ And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the
kingdom u n d e r th e w hole h ea ven (consequently u p o n the
earth), shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most
High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom." Prophecy
contains nothing that carries us beyond this.*
During the lapsing ages of this evangelic empire of the
Messiah, in that period which was to intervene prior to the
downfall of all earthly dominion, announced by the ominous
blast of the seventh or jubilee trumpet of the Apocalypse, the
Gospel was to continue to be preached, and parallel with its
proclamation was this sublime process of spiritual resuscita­
tion to be going on. The Millennial period of John, which
is to be traced to a Jewish origin, was to constitute a signal
department of this grand era.t Coinciding with the seventh
* The objection to understanding 2 Pet 3. 7-12, as announcing a lit­
eral conflagration of the heavens and the earth is grounded upon the inevi­
table conflict it introduces into the Scripture statements respecting the
grand issue of human aflfairs. That destruction, whatever it be, is plainly
anterior to the ushering in of the New Jerusalem state, or the new heav­
ens and earth of Isaiah, ch. 65. 17. But the conditions of that state are
such as absolutely to forbid the idea of a previous physical catastrophe to
the present mundane system. See this point largely considered in the
pages of the ' Hierophant.’
t “ R. Elieeer Ben Jose, the Galilean, says, that the Messianic age
yGoogk
TBK S0JUPTUKA1» ABQUMINT. 309
millenary, a c c o rd in g to J e w ish re c k o n in g , from the cre­
ation, and thence made, for the most part, though with some
exceptions,* the ground of the most glowing anticipations
of terrestrial bliss, it r e a lly falls, by a better adjusted chro­
nology, into an entirely different position in the career of
centuries, and defines an era marked, on the one hand, by
the prevalence of the power of the Roman beast, and the
errors, apoetacies, and persecutions of the Roman church;
and on the other, by the spiritual quickening and spiritual
reigning of the martyrs and confessors of the truth, whose
faithful testimony was illustrated by the fires kindled around
them by papal cruelty, and towering, as beacon lights in
those dark ages, above the stakes to which they were tied.
This state of things the prophet beholds in entranced vision.
He saw their *souls' living in the midst of the slaughter of
their bodies, for it is only by exegetical violence that their
‘ beheading ’ can be separated from their ‘ reigning.’ The
true version is ‘d id not ’ instead of ‘ h a d n o t — “ I saw the
souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus,
and for the word of God, and which d id n o t w o rsh ip the
beast, neither his image, neither d id receive his mark in their
forehead or in their hands ; and they lived aud reigned with
Christ a thousand years.”t That is, there was a su ccessio n
shall endure a thousand years, because it is written, Is. 63. 4, ‘ The day
of vengeance is in my heart but the day of the Lord is a thousand years.”
Jalkut Schimoni in Psalm, fol. 112.
“ It is a tradition in the house of Elias, that the just whom the holy
blessed God shall resuscitate from the dead, shall no more return to dust,
but shall live through the space o f a thousand years, which being elapsed,
the holy blessed God shall renew the world, and shall give to them wings,
like the wings of eagles, and they shall fly above the waters.” Sanhedrin,
fo l. 92. 1. An inkling of ethereal bodies is here to be detected.
* See the note from the Midrash Tillin,on p. 314.
t The Vulgate here gives the right rendering of the original—*non
adoravemnt,’ did not worship, ' non acceperunt,’ did not receive. The
pluperfect rendering was undoubtedly given in compliance with the de?
14* .
Digitized by Google
810 TH E DOCTRINE OP TH E RESURRECTION.
of such faithful witnesses living, dying, rising, reigning
throughout that whole period. Being partakers of that
mands of a previous theory, which could not be so well subserved by a
correct version.
We append, in this connexion, the following valuable remarks from
Gipps’s “ First Resurrection,” p. 133 : " I would begin, therefore, by sug­
gesting an inquiry as to whether the fourth verse is correctly translated.
The reader will observe, that in our translation the verbs sat, teas given,
lived, reigned, are in one tense ; but the verbs had worthipped, and had
received, are in another. In the Greek, however, they are all in the
same tense, the aorist: leaBieav, eat; iS66ij, woe given ; irooecnvijcrav, wor­
shipped; IXaffor, received; l(o<rav, lived ; IffaaiXeocray,reigned. According
to our translation, the time of the ' worshipping the beast’ and ‘receiving
his mark,’ &c., is different from that of the ‘sitting on the throne,’ the
' living and reigning.’ The impression which it conveys is, that ‘the
worshipping the beast,’ &c., took place in some period antecedent to that
during which the persons reign with Christ. I cannot, however, perceive
that the original implies this. It appears to me, that as these verbs are
all in the same tense in the original, so they must all refer to the same
time ; and that, whatever be the time of *not worshipping the beast, nor
receiving his mark,’ the same is the time of the ‘ sitting on thrones, living
and reigning.’ I conceive, therefore, that the time during which the per­
sons described refuse to worship the beast and his image, is that during
which they are sitting upon the thrones, living and reigning with Christ.
It is upon this point that my presentview of the passage depends. If there
are instances in the New Testament, in which verbs occurring in one
verse, and in the same tense, signify entirely different times—some refer­
ring to time past, in this life ; and others to time future, in the life to
come—such instances would show that the verbs in this verse also may re­
fer to different times, although they are in the same tense. But as I am
not aware of any such instances, my present impression is, that, according
to correct construction, each verb being in the same tense must refer to
the same time.
“ Having made these observations, I would suggest whether ver. 4
would not be more correctly translated thus: ‘ And I saw thrones, and
they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them ; and I saw the
souls of those who were beheaded for the testimony of Jesus, and for the
word of God, and such as (or whosoever) worshipped not the beast, neither
his image, and received not his mark upon their forehead and their hand,
and lived (or they lived) and reigned with Christ the thousand yean.’
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 3 1 1
divine principle of eternal life which our Saviour himself
declares exempts a man from the triumph of death, they are,
of course, the subjects of a resurrection perpetually devel­
oping itself; and how could such a favored destiny be any
more pertinently expressed than by the very language which
John has applied to it?—“ I saw the souls ftpifyas) of them
which were beheaded ” 6cc.# This is language appropriate to
a mental and not an ocular perception, the objects of which*
*
*
Let the reader therefore bear in mind, that I assume, as the -wholebasis of
my present view, that the verbs sitting, giving, worshipping, receiving,
living, reigning, being all in the same tense, refer all to the same time ;
and, with this impression, I venture to suggest the following; which, it
appears to me, may be the general outline of this prophecy.
“ First, That a body of persons would arise in the kingdom of the beast,
who would, in a figurative sense, sit upon thrones, have judgm ent given
to them, and live and reign with Christ; and that the subjects of this
the jirst resurrection would be characterized by refusing to worship the
beast and his image, and would be exposed to persecution, and to he slain
for the testimony of Jesus and the word of God : and that a succession of
persons so characterized would continue to arise in the kingdom of the
beast, and to live and reign with Christ as kings and priests during the
thousand years.
“ Secondly, When this period of a thousand years is ended, and at the
commencement of the succeeding period described in ver. 7—
10, a second
resurrection of a similar kind will take place, when the rest of the dead
will live, as foretold in ver. 5; and during this period the remainder of
the Lord’s kings and priests will arise, and live and reign with Christ.
This second resurrection, however, will perhaps not be chiefly in the king­
dom of the beast, but in other parts; nor will it be a time of martyrdom ;
and after this second resurrection, and during the living and reigning of
its subjects, the events foretold in ver. 7-10 will take place.
*
*Thirdly, After the conclusion of this second period Christ will come,
and the judgm ent o f all the dead will take place, as described in vers.
11-15.”
* “ John does not say that he saw that the men who were beheaded
lived again on the earth. He asserts merely, that he saw the souls of
them that were beheaded, not living again, but living ; that is, filled with
unceasing joy, as Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, live to God.” W itsii E x -
src. Sac. p. 513.
Digitized by Google
Were not risen bodies, but risen souls, of which we hare
already seen that yv%at, is intrinsically the legitimate ex*
preesion. They are the ‘ many ’ of Daniel, who have
awakened from spiritual sleep, leaving the' rest of the dead ’
still buried in the slumbers of that moral lethargy by which
they were overwhelmed, and thus distinguished from the class
of the living and reigning. Their state is a true resurrec­
tion state, called ‘ the first resurrection,’ for reasons which
will soon be assigned. The ‘ rest of the dead,’ or as Paneus
with equal justice renders it, ‘ the rest, even the dead,’
neither awake nor live during the thousand years, nor at any
other time.* This, as we have seen from Daniel, is the very
S18 T H E P O O T U N B O F T i l K H U U I C T I O N .
* "B y *the rest of the dead’ are understood all others (the martyrs
and confessors excepted) who embraced not the testimony of Jesus in all
this time, but were either professed enemies ofChrist, as Jews and Pagans
without the church, or false Christians or anti-Christians in the church.
These, he saith, are d ea d , not by a corporal, but a spiritual death in sin,
of which death the apostle speaketh, ‘ When ye were dead in sins f and
‘ She that liveth in pleasure is dead while the liveth.’ So Christ, ‘ Let the
dead bury the dead.’ ' The dead shall hear the voice of the Son ofman.’
For he (John) speaketh of the state of the ungodly living on the earth,
whom he opposeth to the martyrs,not as then living with Christ in heaven,
but as formerly embracing and professing the witness of Jesus on earth.
Therefore, in the words, ‘ The rest of the dead,’ the distinction is not be­
tween the dead, but after the Greek phrase the genitive is put for the nom­
inative, *the rest ofthe dead ’for ‘ the rest even the dead.’ So in ch. 9.20,
' the rest of the men,’that is,‘other men.’ At least,it is a distinction ofsuch
as of old were living on earth, but dead spiritually ; for of old the martyrs
also, before they repented and embraced the testimony of Jesus, were dead
spiritually as the re st; but because they lived again spiritually on earth,
therefore after death they lived and reigned gloriously with Christ in
heaven. ' But the rest lived not again,’ to wit, from the death of sin
through faith and repentance, but despising the testimony of Jesus, re-
inained in paganism, or repented not of their idolatry, hypocrisy, and
other sins in anti-Christianism ; as in ch. 9. 20, ‘The rest of the men,
which were not killed by these plagues, repented not of the works of their
hands, that they should not worship devils, and idols of gold,’ &c., which
place doth excellently interpret thfe.” P araue on the Apoe. eh. 20. 6.
yGoogk
T M B « C IU P T V ltA L A B G G M K N T . 8 1 8
point of distinction between the two classes, that the one
awakes and lives, and the other does not. This is the view
sustained by the whole tenor of the Old Testament repre­
sentations, viz., that the wicked never awake from the deep
death in which they are sunk. Though they continue to
exist, yet having no participation in that principle of divine
life of which Christ is the sempiternal source and the only
bestower, their existence, though perpetual, is penal, and no
deliverance ever reaches them from the fearful bondage of
their doom.* During the lapse of the centuries in ques*
* Even at the risk of an apparent supererogation of proof we ad­
duce the following instances of Rabbinical diction on this head, the weight
of which, in the presentconnexion, depends upon its being founded upon,
and warranted by, the current phraseology of the Old Testament, although
it is very possible they may have unduly strained the import of particular
passages cited in its support.
In the M idrash Coheleth, fol. 82. 2, on Eccles. 9.5, “ The living
know that they must die,” it is said, " By this is to be understood those
who in death are said to be living.” So also of the clause, “ The dead
know not any th i n g “ by this is understood the wicked, who even in life
are said to be dead.”
In the Idra Suta, $ 22, 23, on Ps. 115. 17, “ The dead praise not the
Lord,” R. Simeon says, “ This is certainly true of those who are called
dead; for the holy blessed God is called living, and dwells among those
who are called living, and not among those who are called dead.”
In the Tanehvma, fol. 36. 3, it is said, " Our dead (i. e. the Israel­
ites) are not dead, as says the Psalmist, Ps. 149. 5, ‘ Let the saints be
joyful in glory.’”
Jalkut Seuben, fol. 126. 1, “ The righteous in their death are called
living, because the righteous are not polluted; and this is mystically point­
ed out by that, that ‘ the holy flesh is never corrupted.’”
Jalkut Simeon, 2 fol. 109. 3, “ TheTe is no difference between the
living and dead righteous; they differ only-in name.”
Sohar, fol. 17. 4, “ The righteous .are worthy to be called living in
the world to come.”
Synopsis Sohar, p. 138, n. 7, “ Jacob our father and Moses our
teacher, upon whom be peace, are not dead; and so of all who are in per­
fection, for upon this true life depends. And although it is written of them
that they are dead, yet this is to be understood only in respect to us, and
notin respect to them.” '
— Digitized by Google
3 1 4 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
tion, the great mass of the Roman Christendom was in the
condition here portrayed. They constituted that ‘ world ’
which wondered after the beast—which gave themselves up
with admiring adherence and blind obsequiousness to his
disastrous dominion. This reign of the beast was the reign
of apostacy, and apostacy is death.* This period, we repeat,
was a period, in the main, of the empire of spiritual death;
but its desolation was relieved by a continued succession
of faithful witnesses of the truth, who arose, from time to
time, from out of the midst of the immense surrounding
moral cemetery—the vast Necropolis of the Papacy—and
quickened by the Spirit of God into true resurrection-life
lived and reigned with Christ, and in reigning, judged. It
is quite immaterial whether we regard them as living during
this time in the flesh on earth, or as clothed with spiritual
bodies, for the life is in either case the same, their resurrec­
tion being merely the complement of their regeneration—a
resurrection to which the previous death of the body is little
more than laying aside at night the garments which are
worn during the day. These were the persons whom the
prophet saw in ecstatic vision, and we see not how he could
well have described them otherwise.
But why is this called the first resurrection ? The
true answer to this question is suggested, we think, by a
reference to the grounds on which it is called a resurrec­
tion at all, and to its real chronological relations. Assum­
ing in the outset the soundness of our previous exposition of
the nature of that life which they are said to have lived—a
life which involves no implication whatever of the revival of
their dead bodies—we are to bear in mind that the locale
of the present scenery, as indeed is that of the whole book,
is mainly the Roman empire. It is within the limits of this
* In the Jewish M idrash Tillin, fol. 42. 1, it is said, that “ upon the
coming of the Messiah the world shall be desolated for a thousand years."
This accords with the view we are now advocating, that this Millennial
period is not, intrinsically, a prosperous era, but the reverse.
yGoogk
T H B S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 3 1 5
empire, under its nominally Christian phasis, and during the
prevalence of the power of the Beast and of his worship,
that this grand moral resurrection takes place. It was ful­
filled in the successive rising up of faithful witnesses of
Jesus and sturdy resisters of the Papacy during the lapse of
those ages of darkness and decline which throw their
gloomy shadows upon the pages of ecclesiastical history.
As such a resurrection was predicted, so it occurred. But
this resurrection, which concerned the then existing territory
of the Christian church, does not exhaust the full burden of
the prophetic word. At a period subsequent to the close of
the thousand years, and synchronizing in the main with the
sounding of the seventh Trumpet, the Scriptures have else­
where announced an extensive conversion of the Jews, and
that too under the very figure of a resurrection of the most
stupendous kind. The detailed account of this is to be found
in the 37th chapter of Ezekiel, of which we have elsewhere
attempted a full exposition. But synchronical with this is
to occur also, as the Scriptures intimate, a great ingather­
ing of the Gentiles, which will of course, like that of the
Jews, be a virtual vivification of the spiritually dead. “ If
the fall of them be the riches of the world, how much their
fulness?” “ Blindness in part has happened unto Israel, till
the fulness of the Gentiles be come in.” This denotes a
cotemporary conversion on a large scale of Jews and Gen­
tiles ; and this we conceive is to constitute the second re­
surrection, the annunciation of which is not given in this
connexion, but is to be sought in other parts of the Scrip­
ture. It is not the resurrection of ‘ the rest of the dead’ here
mentioned, which has more especial reference to Christen­
dom, and who are never to rise, but to entirely a different
class of subjects.
But did the prophet see the living, reigning, and judging
saints alone ? Let us listen to his own report embodied in
the closing paragraph.
Digitized by Googk
318 T U S D O C T R IN E OF T H S R E S U R R E C T IO N .
XX. 11-15.
GR.
K a ì elSor òqóvor ftiyar
Itvxór, xaì top xa&ìjfitpov è»
avtov, uv ¿no nQOgamov itpv-
yer t] yìj xaì ò oiQarog, xaì
r onog oiy evQtùrj aitoìg.
Kai eìSor tovg rexgovg,
rovi jxeyalovg xat tovg fit-
XQOvg, iatàzag iràmor roi
&qÓ
pov, xaì piglia {¡roijQi}-
oar ' xaì allo ptplior tjroi-
y&t), o iati t~tjg £ar;g' xaì
txgi&tjaav oi rexQot ix zar
ygyQafifit’
pwp iv toTg ptplioig
xara ta égya aitar.
K a ì idaxer 17Qàlaaaa tovg
rexpovg |tovg i r avrij, xaì ó
&uratog xaì ò uSqg éòuxar
tovg rexqovg tovg ir avtoìg •
xat ixQÌ&rjaav ixaatog xazà
tà égya a ita r.
K a i ó dàrazog xaì ò adtjg
ipitjÙTiaav*eig ttyr liprryr tov
nvgóg’ ovtog o ‘Oaratog ó
devtegóg ia ttr.
K aì u ttg oiy svqÌ& ji ir
tr} Piplqi tJ/g %arjg ytyQayifit-
pog, ipiq&t} tig t \ r h 'firijr tov
nvQÓg.
ENG. VERB.
And I saw a great wfaito
throne, and him that sat on it
from whose face the earth and
the heaven fled away: and
there was found no place for
them.
And I saw the dead, small
and great, stand before God;
and the books were opened:
and another book was opened,
which is the book of IHe: and
the dead were judged out of
those things which were writ­
ten in the books, according to
their works.
And the Bea gave up the
dead which were in it; and
death and hell delivered up the
dead which were in them: and
they were judged every man
according to their works.
And death and hell were
east into- the lake of fire. This
is the second death.
And whosoever was not
found written in the book of
life was cast into the lake of
fire.
This is the opening of a scene which, though essentially
related to the foregoing, is to be dated subsequent to the
close of the thousand years, and intimately connected with
the sounding of the seventh Trumpet, at the period of which
it is said, ch. 11. IS, “ And the time of the dead is come,
that they should hejudged, and that thou shouldest give re­
ward to thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and
them that fear thy name, small and great.” These dead, in
Digitized by Google
T H E S C K IF T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 8 1 7
the nature of the case, are the spiritually dead, constituting
the class opposed to the spiritually living. Of the former
nothing had been said in connexion with the lapse of the
thousaud years, except simply that they did not, like the
saints, lire during that period. Still it tvas fitting that they
should be brought to view in some part of the scenic pano­
rama. Here then the curtain is lifted, and we are permitted to
look in upon them. But the visioning is all spiritual; and that
uo mention is made of a resurrection, or of bodies, arises from
the fact so often adverted to, that a resurrection is not pre­
dicated o f the. wicked, i. e. the spiritually dead. They
abide in death as their element; and in this condition they
are exhibited to our contemplation. As dead they lived,
as dead they died, as dead they are judged.* The error, we
conceive, is inimitably great to suppose the judgment here de­
scribed a visible judgment in the natural sphere, the subjects
of which are men restored to life and reinvested with budies.
There is not, that we can perceive, the remotest allusion to
bodies in the present context. The true doctrine of the re­
surrection affords the true key to the symbolic problems be­
fore us. As that doctrine in effect brings the spiritual
world into the closest proximity to the present, it is but a
slight transition to pass ideally from the one into the other,
and that transition we are here doubtless required to make.
The spiritually dead must be sought in the region where
they abide after death. The transaction here set forth is
unquestionably to be conceived as occurring within the veil.
As the ‘ dead' had nothing to do with the living ttansac-
* We may here remark, that what we deem the false construction
usually put upon the possage respecting the living of the reel of the dead,
has undoubtedly arisen from a false reading of the original. In the estab­
lished text of the earlier editions of the Greek Testament the lection is
oil which properly implies tired not again, and after this our
translation was made. But all the modem editions unanimously reject
this reading and adopt aii c{fera*, lived not. This gives a new complexion
to the passage, and all but enforces ourconstruction.
Digitized by Google
3 1 8 T H E D O C T R IN E O T T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
tions of the thousand years, and as yet no ground was to
be given for the inference, that they had been overlooked of
the divine justice, the spirit of prophecy leads the spirit of
the prophet within the precincts of that region where alone
their existence or their destiny was to be revealed.
Another remark of some moment we would make in
this connexion. As John acts throughout in a representa­
tive character, or in other words as a personal embodiment
of the church through successive ages, so it is doubtless
implied, that at the period to which the prophecy more
particularly refers, there will be, if we may so Bay, an in­
creased power and intensity of spiritual vision, a piercing of
the mental eye through and beyond all outward envelopes,
so that the substantial scenes of the interior world shall be
amazingly disclosed to the realizing perception of the spirit
It is in this, as one sense, that we understand the passing or
fleeing away of heaven and earth from the face of him that
sitteth upon the throne. We believe indeed that this is pre­
cisely the period announced by Isaiah as that when the new
heavens and the new earth are to be ushered in; but as the
evidence is to our minds utterly defective that any physical
event is then to happen which can answer to the sublime
burden of this language, we are constrained to seek its solu­
tion in part in the occurrence of some new subjective condi­
tion of believers, which enables them with comparative ease
to pass from the sphere of the natural into that of the spir­
itual, and contemplate with unclouded survey the grand re­
alities of that world. This will be a virtual abolishing tbe
old heavens and the old earth, and the opening of a new
world to the wondering gaze of the illuminated spirit. The
material universe is, if we may so say, seen through, and
offers no longer an insuperable impediment to a profound
insight into the inner soul or sphere of which it is an enve­
lope. We know the effect, even in common religious expe­
rience, of the couching of that moral cataract which had
before obscured the vision of the inward eye; how at once
Digitized by Google
t m «ciUFftmAi. Amatmxirr. 3 1 9
the significant motto, vettta pratcrisnmt, old things are
passed away, is written on the whole face of creation, and
the man seems to be born into two worlds, both new, at the
same time. Thus in the present case the implication is in
our view obvious, that inasmuch as this judgment is really
enacted in the spiritual world, and not on the theatre of the
earth, so about the time of its incipient occurrence, there
will be a growing recognition of this fact, and a virtual
approximation of the world of faith to the world of sense.
W e doubt not that there will be stupendous moral and
political changes in the state of the world at this period,
which will substantiate in great measure the superb shadows
of the prophet, but we nevertheless look for more than this.
We anticipates measure of spiritual intuition which has never
before been acoorded to the world—an aptitude to penetrate
beyond the grossness of the letter—the sensuousness of the
symbol—to the inner core of the mystery and the sense. The
precise nature of that process which is thus to result in open­
ing heaven and hell to the spiritual perception of living men,
and in making them more distinctly cognizant of their stu­
pendous realities, we may not be able at present to define;
but that such will be the result we have the fullest convic­
tion, nor do we believe that any interpretation of the clos­
ing chapters of the Apocalypse will ever fully solve their
enigmas but one that is founded on the admission of a new
subjective state of the Christian man in reference to them.
While, on the one hand, the characteristics of the New Je­
rusalem economy are such as to imply the continuance of
the present mundane system as its grand locale, it is on the
other'presented under such aspects as seem to necessitate
the inference, that some change is absolutely requisite in
order to qualify men in the flesh for entering into a full re­
alization and participation of its blessings. We look for the
evolutions of the divine counsels to open a new chapter of
marvels upon the world in connexion with the fulfilments of
the closing oraeles of John. “ The third period of the
Digitized by Googk
church” sayg Daubuz, “ is an age of wonders in a transcend­
ent degree.”
But we revert again to the ‘judgment of the dead.’
The great purpose of the Spirit is to intimate that a lilting
award was to be meted out to the immense multitudes of
those who were written as non-living during the lapse of the
thousand years. Though dead in the sight of God as to any
acting of true spiritual life, yet they had been sufficiently
alive to indict untold sufferings upon the living witnesses of
the truth, and to bring them, from age to age, to the bloody
block. It was proper, therefore, that they should be judged
—men of all grades aud orders—the ‘ great ’ and the ‘ small,’
i. e., the eminent and the mean. For this purpose ‘ the
books are opened,’ evidently a symbolical expression, de­
noting simply the fact, that their ‘works’ are all registered
in the records of the divine remembrance as well as their
own, as the unquestionable ground of the sentence which is
to be pronounced. As the ‘ books’ then are a mere figure,
a part of the costume of the scene, we infer the same as to
the ‘ throne,’ and its occupancy by a visible judge. The
whole is emblematic, and not real. God does not sit upon a
throne, nor does he, like earthly monarchs, keep written
archives of the affairs of his kingdom. The imagery por­
trayed is in accordance with our common notions of judicial
proceedings, and is thus best calculated to produce the prac­
tical effect designed. To the great mass of men of all ages
such a representation will appeal with more power than any
other, while at the same time, as the moral reason is devel­
oped and educated, the scenery will gradually resolve itself
into an inward process, the necessary result of c&aracter,
and fixing one’s spiritual and eternal state by an established
law. If men were universally elevated in this life above
the sphere of the sensuous, this more abstract view of the
subject would be all that would be requisite to exercise the
most ample control over their practical conduct; for to the
reflecting mind there can be no higher sanction to a moral
3 3 0 T H E H e O T K IN K B T T H E BKBO TUU BjCTION .
Digitized by Google
T H S S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 331
law than that in its own nature, and by its inevitable conse­
quences, it works out weal or woe to its subject, according
as he obeys or violates it. But the mass of men are not re­
flecting' ; they are habitually incompetent to appreciate the
force of purely moral considerations, and therefore the wis­
dom and benignity of Jehovah have accommodated their
revelations of human destiny to the intellectual infirmities
of the race. They are communicated through a medium
that shall address itself to their imaginations. They are set
forth under the guise of symbols and images calculated to
work on their hopes and fears, and to move the reason
through the machinery of the passions. Thus in regard to
the sublime pictured scenery we are now contemplating.
The truth, divested of all drapery, undoubtedly is, that each
individual of this countless multitude was actually judged,
as every man necessarily is, the moment he became a den­
izen of the world unseen. His character decided his destiny.
But in accordance with the general analogy of revelation,
the judgment is here represented as concentrated to a point,
to a single act, and its candidates are exhibited as arraigned,
as having their indictment read out to them, and then sub­
jected to a formal sentence followed by an actual execution.
This is the lot of the condemned; and such is the import of
the symbols, that whatever may be the true nature of their
doom, no possible solution can avoid the inference that it is
tremendously fearful, and no man can fail to impose upon
himself, to his iufinite detriment, who adopts any construc­
tion of the figured scenery which goes in any way to relax
the awful tone of sanction that runs through the whole.
Still we are not to be deterred by any contingency of this
sort from the humble and reverent attempt to resolve shad­
ows into substance.
“ And another book was opened, which is the book of
life.” The ‘ book of life' is the book o f the living. The
phraseology is founded upon repeated allusions in the Old
Testament, many of which are transferred to the New.
Digitized by Google
Compare Ex. 32. 33. Pa. 69. 38, (where the Targum has
‘ book of the reoord of the living,’) Is. 4. 3. Ezek. 13. 9.
Dan. 12. 1. Phil. 4. 3. Rev. 3. 5.— 13. 8.— 17. 8 . The
names enrolled in that book, are the names of the living in
contradistinction from the dead, who are here represented
as being judged. * The judgment does not clear!y appear
to pass upon the living. The register in which they are
written is merely opened that they may be designated, in
order to their taking their seats as co-assessors with Christ,
and share with him in the act of adjudication. “ Know ye
not that the saints shall judge the world ?” By this opening
of the ‘ hook of life’ the tribunal is fully constituted, and
the award is then given. “ The dead were judged out of
those things that were written in the books, according to
their works.”
“ And the sea gave up the dead that were in it, and Death
and Hell (Hades) delivered up the dead whioh were in them;
and they were judged every man according to their works.”
This is of course to be understood as the statement of some­
thing which occurs prior to the act of adjudication just men-
T H E D O C T R IN E - D P -T H E B E S V B E E C T IO N .
* " A number of books are opened, and this is contrasted with the
opening of a single book ; and while it is stated that the dead are judged,
every man out of these books, according to his works, the opening of the
other book is for another purpose altogether. It is not used to call up to
judgment any individual whose name is written therein; but it is em­
ployed simply as a testimony to establish the perfect justice of the sen­
tence on the others; tomanifest that not one ofthose who will then bejudged
had his name written in the book of life. As the solemn tribunal is sit­
ting for the judging of “ the rest of the dead,” we may suppose there
will be a reference to this book; and as each individual is accused, we
may imagine the question to be asked, “ Is his name in the book of lifeV’
“ Is there any escape for him ?” “ No ; it isnot found there,” will be the
answer. “ Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast
into the lake of lire.” This is all which can be grounded upon the men­
tion ofthis book oflife in this awiul passage ofGod’s word.” Dallas's Ser­
mon on the Judgment o f the Living, in “ Lectures delivered by Ttselvt
Clergymen o f the Church o f E ngland” Lond. 1844.
yGoogk
T « l a v m M L ARGUMENT. 3 2 3
tioned above. Keeping steadily in mind the main idea above
insisted on, that the ‘dead ’ in this connexion are the spirit­
ually dead— the dead equally before and after their physical
decease— we shall have no difficulty in grasping the drift of
this pari of the oracle. It simply aflinns the universality of the
judgment in relation to its true subjects. No matter by what
tbrm of dissolution they passed out of the present life.*
Whether they met their fate by being ingulfed in the wa­
ters of the sea, or sunk under the stroke of pestilence or any
•>tlier species of wasting disease—the true prophetical sense
of death=mortality—it is a matter of no account in bar
of the certainty of their being summoned to judgment.
"Though they dig into hell, thence shall mine hand take
them; though they climb up to heaven, thence will 1 bring
them down ; and though they hide themselves in the top of
Carmel, I will search and take them out thence ; and though
they be hid from my sight in the bottom of the sea, thence
will I command the serpent and he shall bite them.” There
shall be no exemption for a single soul. Judgment and
doom are inevitable, and no dark recess of ocean, earth, or
heaven shall retain its refugees, when the loud-sounding
* In chap. 21.1, the prophet says, “ And I saw a new heaven and a
new earth; for the first heaven and the firat earth were passed away ;
and there woe no more tea,’’ This isadduced with considerableplausibili­
tyasan objection to the common theory ofthe occurrence of tl;e ‘judgment
of the dead ’ at what is termed ‘ the end of the world,’for during the previ­
ous New Jerusalem state it would seem not to exist. Our own impres­
sion is, that under that new earthly economy the Bea will no longer exist
osa tea, i. e. as a separating barrier in the way of the intercourse of na­
tions. Such will then be the improvements in the various arts of naviga­
tion, that the oceanshall be, as it were, bridged, and offer no more imped­
iment to travelling than the land. Consequently it ceases to be, as it
was before, a source of destruction to men; and this passage taken
in connexion with chap. 20. 13 and 21. 4, shows that the three gTand
forms ofdestruction, to wit, the Sea, Death, and Hades, are all done away
under the new. dispensation.
Digitized by Googk
3 2 4 T H E D O C T R IN E O f T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N
gammons Deliver ! shall be heard in reverberated echoes
throughout creation’s limits.
Still we cannot be insensible to a large admixture of
the symbolical element in the midst of this solemn scenery.
Both Death and Hades are here personified. They are rep­
resented as a kind of j a n ito r s of the dreary realms of dead
souls, and they are here set before us as giving up those whom
they had before held in their keeping. As ‘Death’ is the
prophetical term for m o r ta lity , more especially under the
farm of sic kn e ss or p e stile n c e , or any thing which is the cause
of p re m a tu re death^ the intimation is, that all the thousands
and millions who had been hurried in any of these modes out
of life, are now to be recognized as being in existence, and
candidates for their final and just award, the sentence of the
‘second death,’ the term for that punishment, whatever it
be, which is the equitable sequence of their s p ir itu a l death.
The import of ‘ Hades ’ or ‘ Hell ’ is closely related to that
of ‘ Death.’ Death and Hades are frequently spoken of
together, as being a kind of inseparable companions. Rev.
6 . 8 , “ And I looked, and behold a pale horse; and his name
that sat on him was Death, and Hell (Hades) followed with
him.” Death delivers over his victims to Hades, that is,
mortal disease or premature death transmits its subjects into
the invisible world, and the intrusted charge of the one
cannot well be reclaimed without an equivalent demand
made upon the other. As then they received their subjects
in concert, they resign them in concert. The sheriff and
the jailer unite in the surrender of the culprit to the sentence
of the judge.
“ And Death and Hell were cast into the lake of fire."
The profoundest depths of symbolical meaning are involved
in these words. The passage is based primarily on an al­
lusion to Hos. 13. 14, “ I will ransom them from the power
of the grave (Gr. adov, hades); I will redeem them from
death : O death, I will be thy plagues, O grave h a d es),
I will be thy destruction.” We can resolve the purport of
yGoogk
T H K S O K IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 3 2 5
the words only by a searching inquiry into the time to
which the events here described are to be assigned. And
we observe, first, that it is certainly not the end of the
world, as popularly understood, for the New Jerusalem
state, which is gradually to be developed on the earth, is
yet to ensue. The precursor to this state is the sounding
of the seventh trumpet, which we have already seen is syn-
chronica] with this judgment of the dead. And let us here
remark, that this New Jerusalem economy, and not the
Millennium, constitutes the grand sabbatical or septenary
period o f the world, and this is of unlimited duration, in
accordance with what Moses says of the creation-week;
in which it will be noticed that, unlike the preceding days,
the Sabbath is not defined by ‘ evening and morning,’ thus
conveying by implication the idea, that that day is a type
of a sabbatism of unlimited extent. This sabbatism we re­
cognize in the New Jerusalem state, immediately previous
to which the heavenly bride, the Church, adorns herself for
her husband, just as Adam received his new-created Eve on
the close o f the sixth day, as he was about entering on his
first Sabbath. The chain of disclosures in the Apocalypse
lands us, in this 20th chapter, at the Saturday evening of
the world’s great week, to which this ‘judgment of the
dead’ is more especially to be referred, for the next chap­
ter opens with the introduction of the new heavens and the
new earth, and the descent o f' the holy city,’ the New Jeru­
salem, the bride, the Lamb’s wife, coming to the consum­
mation of her long-expected nuptials.
Now of this predicted state, just about to open with
abounding bliss upon the earth, it is expressly said, ch. 2 1 .4,
that “ there shall be no more death there, neither sorrow nor
crying, neither shall there be any more pain; for the former
things are passed away.” Death, therefore, in the sense above
explained, of premature mortality, is to have no place in that
beatific dispensation, and consequently he is here represent-
15
Digitized by Googk
$26 T H E D O C T R IN E O P T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
ed as being abolished on the eve of its commencement.*
But as Death and Hades are indissolubly associated in the
* As the position which we have assumed above is one of the utmost
importance to our general argument, we must be permitted to introduce an
extract from an article in the ‘ Hierophant’ (p. 12), on the chronological
relations of the Millennium and the New Jerusalem, where we have dis­
cussed the present point at great length. -
John SI. 4.
And God shall wipe away all
tears from their eyes ; and there
shall be no more death, neither sor­
row, nor crying, neither shall there
be any more pain : for the former
things are passed away.
Isaiah 65. 19, 20.
And I will rejoice in Jerusalem,
andjoy in my people: and the voice
of weeping shall be no more heard
in her, nor the voice of crying.
There shall be no more thencean
infant of days, nor an old man that
hath not filled his days: for the
child shall die an hundred years
old: but the sinner being an hun­
dred years old shall be accursed.
It would doubtless appear, at the first blush, that these passages,though
containing some expressions in common, were yet irreconcilably at vari­
ance on the grand point of mortality, in the state which they are design­
ed to depict to us. We see, it is said, in one the unequivocal assurance
that' there shall be no more death ’ there, and in the other an equally
clear intimation that there shall he death, though its stroke may, in the
general, be deferred to extreme old age. So far as the letter is concern­
ed, this appears indeed a very formidable objection to the identity of the
states described by the two writers. But we have no doubt the objection
is entirely superable, and we proceed to show that a simple reference to
the prevailing ustu loquendi in regard to the word ‘ death’ (#ardro<)
will solve the enigma without the least difficulty.
The remark is well nigh superfluous to scholars, that thdiprevailing
diction of the New Testament is strikingly governed by and conformed
to that of the Septuagint or Greek Version of the Hebrew Scriptures.
But in no point is this fact more palpably illustrated than in the usage
that obtains in regard to the word ^avdxoq, usually translated death.
In a multitude of instances, this word occurs as the rendering of the
Heb.i^W deter, pestilence, or in a sense nearly tantamount to mortality
from extraordinary causes, such as diseases and the various casualties
that prematurely extinguish life. It is therefore in strict propriety oppoe-
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 3 2 7
Scripture emblems, the destruction of the one is the destruc­
tion of the other. Both, therefore, are here represented as
ed to longevity, and not to immortality. Bat conclusive evidence of this
can be afforded only by an actual exhibition of the usage alluded to,
which we present with the assurance, that quite as many cases remain
behind uncited as are now adduced. Ex. 5. 3, *Let us go, we pray
thee, three days’journey into the desert, and sacrifice unto the Lord our
God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence ("’3'j) or with the sword.’ Gr.
fi^novt ovrarvqtji} rtuiv &urdrni; ij qniroi, lest death or slaughter
meet us. Ex. 9. 3, ‘ Behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thy cattle
which is in the field, upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels,
upon the oxen, and upon the sheep: there shall be a very grievous mur­
rain drier kdbed).’ Gr. &ardrof fifyat, a great death,
i. e. mortality. Lev. 26. 25,‘I will send the pestilence ("On) among
you.’ Gr. & ardros, the death. Deut. 28. 21, *The Lord shall make
the pestilence ( " '^ ) cleave unto thee.’ Gr. ¡9-ardzoi;, the death
Ezek. 33. 27, ‘They that be in the forts and in the caves shall die of the
pestilence Gr. dararov,of the death. This usage, which occurs also
in the Chaldee and the Syriac, is obviously transferred into the New Tes­
tament, and affords the true clew to the interpretation of the following
passages. Rev. 2. 23, ‘ And I will kill her children with death (tr
tfovsTw),’ i. e. with pestilence or some kind of sudden and violent death,
with death out of the common course of nature. Rev. 6. 8, ‘ And pow­
er was given unto them over the fourth.part of the earth, to kill with
sword, and with hunger (i. e. famine), and with death (ir &<travie),
and with the beasts of the earth.’ That the ‘ death ’ here threatened is
in fact a deadly pestilence will be evident by comparing the passage with
Ezek. 14. 21, from which it is taken ; ‘ How much more when I send
my four sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and
the noisome beast, and the pestilence pStj, Gr. &avdvov), to cut off
from it man and beast.’ Indeed this phraseology is not unknown in our
language, ns it is common to denominate the wasting pestilence which
ravaged Europe in the middle ages ‘ the Black Death.’
With this array, then, of the usus loquendi before us, and which we
might expect to find more characteristic of the Apocalypse than of any
other portion of the New Testament, from its dominantly Hebraic idiom,
can we hesitate to admit that the meaning of &-ararof, death, in the
passages before us, is that which we have assigned to it 1 ‘ There shall
be no more death,’ is merely affirming, that in that blessed period there
shall be an exemption from all those evil influences, physical and moral,
Digitized by Google
having their power annulled by being themselves cast into
‘ the lake of fire.’ “ This lake of fire,” says Daubuz (in
loc.), “ is but a symbolical notion or representation of the
perpetual continuance and unchangeableness of that state,
into which those matters are reduced which are said to be
thrown therein; implying that they shall no more affect
mankind, as being, as to them, utterly destroyed; and as
to themselves, never able for the future to be again what
they were before that condemnation.” The doom, there­
fore, of the personified Death and Hades, is equivalent to
their ceasing to be, or to act in their appropriate capacity.
They are henceforth to have no place under that new and
celestial economy which is about to be ushered in. Yet no
inference can be drawn from this in support of the idea that
men shall not die during that period ; all that it implies is,
that death shall be no longer a scourge or a curse. Its
strength as a penalty is in that state utterly enervated and
extinguished for ever. Neither can any argument be built
upon this interpretation in favor of the hypothesis of the
ultimate redemption and salvation of those who have fallen
under the condemning sentence issuing from the ‘great
3 2 8 the doctrine of the resurrection.
which.now go to curtail the duration of human life, and hurry thousand«,
in all generations; to a premature grave. Universal temperance in eat­
ing and drinking, regulated passions, sobriety of aim, moderation ofpar-
suit, and vigilance of precaution, in all the businesses of life, combined
with strong hereditary vital stamina, great salubrity of climate, and un­
known improvements in the arts of physical well-being, will then no
doubt secure to men a term of longevity vastly transcending the highest
hopes which they would now dare to indulge. This view of the subject
brings the two prophets to a perfect tally in their description of the vision­
ed future. The ‘no death’ of John is entirely equivalent to the‘no
premature death’ of Isaiah, as we have found this to be the legitimate
sense of the terms ; and it would certainly be strange,if when they agree
so precisely in every other item, there were no mode of bringing them
into harmony in this. The solution given we have no doubt is the tine
one, and we commend it to the most unsparing scrutiny of the biblical
scholar.
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 32U
white throne.’ They are left by this abolition of Death and
Hades jnst where they were before, under the full force of
that doom which is intended by ‘ the second death.’ If we
were called upon to specify any form of alleged Christian
doctrine for which the least amount of evidence could be
adduced from the Scriptures, it would be that of the final
universal salvation o f the race. We say this at the same
time that we do not scruple to adopt, in many particulars,
as will have been seen in our preceding pages, the construc­
tion which the abettors of that theory put upon the words
of inspiration. But this fact brings us no nearer to the ad­
mission of the truth of their grand tenet. For this we find
an entire lack of positive Scriptural evidence; and just as
little do we find, on having recourse to rational or philoso­
phical considerations. We are utterly at fault in seeing
any thing in the nature o f the eaib which should be a satis­
factory ground of the belief. As moral character must
necessarily be the basis of destiny, we recognize no provi­
sion made either in revelation or reason for that change,
whether at death or after death, by which a bad man can be
made a good man, and as such be rendered capable of hap­
piness. “ As the tree falleth, so it shall lie.”
But to return. “ This is the second death.” It must be
acknowledged that the relation in which these words stand
to the context creates great difficulty in their explanation.
T he difficulty arises on the score of making a metaphorical
death the subject or victim of a real death. Death and
Hades in the preceding clause are personified, and as such
are said to be destroyed, annulled, or abolished, by being
cast into the ‘ lake of fire,’ considered as a symbol of a con­
suming and annihilating power. This we can understand ;
but when it is immediately added, *This is the second
death,’ as if predicated also of Death and Hades, we are
conscious at once of immense embarrassment in conceiving
how that which is to be the doom of real persons can be
predicated of symbolical persons. We might indeed admit
yGoogk
3 3 0 T U E D O C T R IN E OP T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
a figure of speech, and suppose these terms to be rhetorically
taken in a collective sense for the subjects of each, were it not
that they are expressly said, in the preceding verse, to have
previously resigned up their subjects; and this would re­
quire us to conceive of them as again re-collected, and, as
we may say, re-embodied, in their representing or mystic
personifications, and then destroyed. How then is the
matter to be adjusted! Daubuz supposes a comparison to
be intended between the effects of the ‘ second death ’ upon
men, and of the destruction in the lake of fire upon Death
and Hades. “ As ‘ second death ’ signifies irrecoverable
damnation to wicked angels and men, so to Death and
Hades it signifies an absolute cessation of the effects which
we see the present Death and Hades have upon men.” But
to us it rather appears that the ‘ second death ’ is here used
but in one sense, and thafit is properly predicable only of the
condemned dead in their veritable persons, and not of the
allegorical personages who represent them. We venture
therefore to suggest a reading of the text, by a parenthetical
arrangement^ which to our mind relieves it of the difficulty
in question, and still leaves the grand averment of the Spirit
wholly unaffected. Parentheses, we know, are often to be
admitted in the true construction of the sacred writers,
though they are not noted in the original copies, and per­
haps the following may be as unexceptionable as any other:
“ And the sea gave up the dead which were in i t ; and
Death and Hell delivered up the dead which were in them :
and they were judged every man according to their works.
(And Death and Hell were cast into the lake of fire.) This
is the second death.” According to this construction, the
‘ second death ’ stands in more immediate connexion with
the sentence of the judgment, and is predicated of the
subjects of that judgment, instead of the mystical imper­
sonations, Death and Hades. It is indeed clear that the
‘ lake of fire' is identical with the ‘ second death,’ for it is
immediately added: “ And whosoever was not found written
yGoogk
T U E S C a iP T U B A L A E G U M E N T . 831
in the book of life was cast into the lake o f f i r e and
so also ch. 21. 8 , “ But the fearful, and unbelieving, and
abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sor­
cerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in
the lake o f fire and brimstone; which is the second death.”
But our grand object is to avoid the necessity of under­
standing that the doom of the second death is affirmed of
D eath and Hades, considered as mystifeal and metapho­
rical persons.
O f the ‘lake of fire’ itself, that is, of the real and ver­
itable nature of the punishment denoted by the symbol, we
know not that we are competent, in the present state, to ap­
prehend and unfold it. It is obviously the same with the
‘ Gehenna of fire’ denounced by our Saviour as the doom of
the incorrigible offender, and whioh is the emblem of a per­
dition, the essential nature of which is nowhere disclosed
in the teachings of revelation. The import of the passage
is undoubtedly identical with that containing the Saviour’s
solemn declaration, Mark 9. 43, 44: “ It is better for thee
to enter into life maimed, .than having two hands to go into
hell, into the fire that shall never be quenched; where their
worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.” This again
is to be traced back to the words of Isaiah, 6 6 . 22 : “ And
they shall go forth and look upon the carcasses of the men
that have transgressed against me, for their worm shall not
die, neither shall their fire be quenched; and they shall be
an abhorring to all flesh.” This is chronologically related
to the introduction of that state of things when the Jews
are brought in, and the nations or Gentiles go up ‘ from one
new moon to another ’ to worship at Jerusalem in the period
of the new heaven and new earth, which is but another
name for the New Jerusalem economy of the Apocalypse,
the commencement of which is here related. This estab­
lishes the identity of the doom announced by the two writ­
ers. But the term for abhorring (’
¡isni) is the same, with
a slight difference of pointing, with that used by Daniel,
Digitized by Google
3 3 2 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
1 2 . 2 , for everlasting ‘ contempt’ ; and this brings his lan*
guage into distinct reference to precisely the same subjects,
viz., the wicked who never awake to true life, although as
the Chaldee Targum here affirms, ‘ their souls shall not
die.’ Cocceius observes, that “ by carcasses in this place
are to be understood men abiding in spiritual death.” To
‘ look upon ’ such carcasses is, according to Vitringa, to con­
template in them an impressive and awful demonstration of
the divine justice in the punishment to which they are con­
demned. The consideration of the character and conduct
which have been the procuring cause of their fearful lot will
inspire the beholders with unutterable loathing and contempt
excited by the moral stench of putrefying souls. Shut out
from all participation in the blessedness and glory of the
‘ holy city,’ devoured by the gnawing worm of conscience,
exposed to the holy scorn of saints and angels, they are
condemned to pine away in a living death, the horrors of
which can only be depicted by the revolting spectacles of
the ‘ vale of Hinnom’ with its decaying carcasses and gloat­
ing worms. Fearful issue of apostatizing rebellion against
Zion’s King !
The point of prime moment, perhaps, in the present train
of investigation, is that which relates to the time of this ‘judg­
ment of the dead.’ To our own view, the evidence is deci­
sive, that it cannot be at the ‘ end of the world,’ as that
phrase is generally understood. If so, why is it not found
at the end of the book, and set forth as the grand finale of
the course of events which lead to it? Is there any thing
subsequent to the general judgment, as usually apprehended,
except the eternal states of heaven and hell, a particular
account of which does not enter into the revelations of this
book? for the New Jerusalem state which ensues is obvi­
ously a state developed on the earth, and among men in the
flesh. This is evident from its being said that the leaves of
the Tree of Life are for the healing of the Gentiles, and the
kings of the earth are to bring their glory or riches into the
Digitized by Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 3 3
holy city. T his is palpably the same state with that describ­
ed in the closing chapters of Isaiah and Ezekiel, as any one
may be convinced who will institute a comparison between
them. B ut Isaiah and Ezekiel confessedly portray what is in
popular parlance understood by th e ‘latter day glory,’ the
bright and prosperous era of Zion’s welfare on the terra­
queous globe which we inhabit. How then can the descrip­
tion of a judgment which manifestly occurs prior to this
economy be understood of one that is to take place after it?
On what principle can the collocation, on that view, be ac­
counted for? We know that it may be said that our con­
struction utterly disturbs and deranges the entire system of
prophetic Eschatology and throws us out at 6ea without rud­
der or compass. But is it not true? Is there any possibility
of avoiding the conclusion? If there be, are we not at lib­
erty to demand that it be pointed out? The conclusion
certainly rests upon grounds that are very far from being
intuitively fallacious or vain. We have fully and fairly pre­
sented them, and we have a sustaining consciousness that
the greatest injustice would be done to our argument by
treating it as a mere baseless vagary, the offspring of a way­
ward love of new, or strange, or astounding theories. On this
head we can safely and securely adopt the language of an
old commentator : “ This I hold, not as if I desired to be
the first broacher of new-found and strange opinions to the
world, or as if I took pleasure to go against the consent of
all w riters; yea, God is my witness, how greatly I do detest
and abhor that itching desire of hunting after and minting
new and monstrous errors, by reason of a profane loathing
of anciently received truth.” (Brightman on the Apoc., p.
270.) While therefore we plead not guilty to the charge of
a morbid cacoethes innovandi, we still feel so deeply the con­
straint of loyalty to our inmost convictions of truth, that we
cannot withhold our efforts from the attempt to settle, upon
a solid basis, the genuine purport of revelation in a most
15*
yGoogk
334 THE DOCTRINE OP THE RESURRECTION.
momentous department of its teachings; and we again reit­
erate our demand, that, if the conclusion we have stated
above be unsound, the fallacy of it be exposed, and the
true doctrine, on true grounds, be affirmed.
And let us here remark, that the only possible basis on
which a refutation of our position can be made to stand, is
the denial of the identity of the state described in the clos­
ing chapters of Isaiah and John; and if this identity of
state is denied, then the identity o f language employed in
describing each must be accounted for, and the principle
clearly laid down which requires us to admit this diversity of
application. The Millennium of John precedes in the order
of the visions, and doubtless in the order of events, the New
Jerusalem. The New Jerusalem supervenes immediately
or speedily upon the overthrow of the mystical Babylon,
another term for the False Prophet, whose destruction syn­
chronizes with that of the Beast, the symbolic designation
of the fourth or Roman empire. The passing away of the
Roman empire, in its decem-regal form, is the result of the
sounding of the seventh trumpet, and the seventh trumpet an­
nounces the kingdoms of this world becoming the kingdoms
of our Lord and his Christ; and this, according to Daniel, is
the kingdom ofthe saints which endures for ever and ever, and
consequently this must be the same as the New Jerusalem,
unless there are to be two kingdoms both universal, or two
eternities in succession. Now to what coming state of
Christ’s kingdom do Isaiah’s glowing descriptions apply
but to that set forth in Daniel, which is the same with the
New Jerusalem of John? We confess to the intensest
anxiety to know by what process of interpretation this re­
sult is to be set aside. If it stands, then must stand our
collocation of the ‘judgment of the dead,’ for this takes place
at the time of the passing away of the old heavens and the
old earth, and it is the introduction of the new heavens and
the new earth, which constitutes the New Jerusalem ; and
yGoogk
THK SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 8 3 5
the announcement of this is the closing theme of revelation.
We have no account of a judgment or any thing else subse­
quent to it. '
We may now perhaps deem ourselves somewhat pre­
pared to reply to the objection, that the view above advo­
cated deprives us of any clear and unequivocal assurance of
any such event as a general judgment. We have seen that
whatever difficulty may arise on this score, as it is a diffi­
culty growing directly out of the fair exhibition of the
Scripture statements on the subject, it is one with which we
have no more concern than our readers. The disclosures
of the Bible are the common peculium of all Christians, and
the burden of its problems presses equally upon all. No
man can be held responsible for difficulties that are created
by the simple exhibition of what every body admits to be the
veritable contents of the inspired word. The case would
be different if they arose from the exigencies of what could
be justly deemed any peculiar scheme or theory, involving
points not generally admitted. But this we do not concede
in the present instance to be the fact. We maintain, on the
contrary, that the difficulty in regard to a general judgment
at what is termed the end of the world, is an irresistible
sequence from the common construction which is put upon
the Scriptural records. Does not the solution then equally
concern others with ourselves? And what is the solution?
- No one will hesitate to admit that in this, as in every
other sphere of Scriptural hermeneutics, the certain must be
made the criterion of the uncertain. The grand point is to
ascertain what is certain, and what is not. As far as con­
cerns the general scope of our discussion hitherto, if we
have not overrated the force of our reasonings, we have
afforded such evidence in regard to the resurrection, that
while the fa ct of the doctrine is impregnably sustained, the
form of the doctrine must have undergone an important
change in the mind’s estimate by reason of the tests to
which it has been submitted. Now if we may suppose that
Digitized by Google
3 3 6 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
the rational conviction reposes in the soundness of the
main conclusion as to the essential nature of the resurrec­
tion, and consequently as to its being a process progressively
evolved, one finds himself obliged to account to his own
reason for the fact, that a usage of speech obtains in the
Scriptures in regard to it, which is calculated to convey an
impression directly the reverse of that which he believes to
be the true one. As the Scriptural mode of expression,
literally taken, seems to imply that the resurrection is a
simultaneous event, to occur at some definite future period,
he cannot well rest contented till he ascertains the origin of
this form of speech, and settles the principle on which it is
founded. His failure to do this, however, to his entire
satisfaction, will not vacate the strength of his former assur­
ance of having become master of the truth of the doc­
trine. Still he is prompted studiously to inquire. The
result of his inquiries, if it agrees with ours, will be, that
our Saviour and his apostles merely adopted the style of
diction which had been immemorially prevalent among the
Jews on this subject, and which is no doubt built upon the
current phraseology of the Old Testament. According to
that, a resurrection par eminence was to be one of the grand
distinguishing features of the Messianic kingdom, the gene­
ral designation of which was the ttan oVis, or world to come,
the great and glorious dispensation to be ushered in by the
re-living Messiah, and forming the grand burden of all the
prophets.* This distinguished period, of which the chrono­
logical characters were not very distinctly marked, was often
* “ The JewB had a fancy, that the kingdom of the Messias would be­
gin with the resurrection of the dead, as we have noted before ; vainly
indeed as to their sense of i t ; but not without some truth as to the thing
itself: for from the resurrection of Christ the glorious epoch of the king­
dom of God took its beginning, as we said before, which Christ himself,
also signified in these words, Mat. 26. 29.” Lightfoot, Hor. Heb. and
Talm. on Mat. 27. 52.
Digitized by Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARCUMSNT. 3 3 7
termed in avery general way ‘the last day ’—‘the last days ’—
‘the great day’—‘that day,’ &c. And as all time, in its longest
duration, is but a handbreadth in the Divine estimation,
so the. prophets were often led to speak of events occurring
in any part of that period, as happening at ‘ the last day.’
Here then we have the key to those expressions of our
Lord in the Gospels, in which he speaks of raising the
righteous ‘ at the last day.’ He does not deem it expedient
to depart from the established formulas of speech with which
the Jews were familiar. Time and the course of events
would develope the truth, and the subsequent generations
of the church would in this respect possess an advantage
withheld, for wise reasons, from its primitive ages.
The intimations respecting thejudgment are, as we con*
ceive, to be interpreted on the same principle. When Paul,
for instance, says to Timothy, “ I charge thee, therefore, be­
fore God and the Ijord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick
and the dead at his appearing and kingdom;” what evidence is
there that this language is any thing more than that of Paul's
prevailing anticipation of the occurrence of that epiphany,
in connexion with thejudgment and the kingdom, that were
to distinguish the dispensation which had then opened, but
the precise periods of which had not been revealed ? Our
Lord had said, Mat. 16. 27, “ The Son of man shall come
in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then shall
he reward every man according to his works.” This we
have shown to be an announcement of his incipient coming
at the introduction of his Gospel kingdom, when his reigning
and judging prerogative signally commenced. Must not
this and similar announcements have been the foundation
upon which this entire class of the apostolical declara*
tions rested 1—and what evidence is there that they pos­
sessed any more than general expectations founded upon
general predictions, the specific chronological relations of
which had not been communicated to them ? Certainly it
is impossible to show that the ‘times and the seasons ’ which
Digitized by Google
3 3 8 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
the Father in his sovereignty had appointed, were expressly
made known in the apostolic age; and there are slender
grounds to suppose that the sacred writers hare imparted
what they had not received.
In 1 Pet. 4. 17, we find the apostle saying, “ For the
time is come that judgment must begin at the house of G od;
and if it begin first at us, what shall the end be of them that
obey not the gospel of God?” Here is the clear enunciation
of the fact, that a process o f judgment had commenced, or
was just about to commence, at the time when this epistle
was written. It is clear, too, that the Jews were to be, in
the first instance, the subjects of that judgment, and this
lays the foundation for the reference, which is made by
almost all commentators, of these words to our Lord’s pre­
diction in the 24th of Matthew, to the coming calamities of
Jerusalem, in which both the literal and the figurative
‘ house of God’ (i. e. the temple and the Jewish people) fell
under the desolating scourge. But we hare already assumed
to show that that was pre-eminently the commencing epoch of
a great dispensation of judgment which was to run down
through the centuries of the Christian kingdom ; and if this
be so, how natural to interpret Peter’s language to the same
effect! Can that interpretation be shown to be wrong ?
A like construction we put upon 1 Pet. 4. 4, 5, “ Where­
in they think it strange that ye run not with them to the
same excess of riot, speaking evil of you : toko shall give
account to him that is ready tojudge the quick and the dead.”
By his being ‘ ready ’ to judge, &c., is implied that the great
predicted process of judgment was just upon the ere of being
commenced. The true nature of the distinction here hinted
at between the ‘ quick ’ and the ‘dead,’ has ever been a point
much mooted among commentators. The interpretation
which recognizes in it the two classes of the ‘ godly ’ and
the ‘ ungodly,’ or the ‘ spiritually alive ’ and the ‘ spiritually
dead,’ strikes us as more in accordance with the general
tone of revelation than any other, notwithstanding it seems
Digitized by Google
THE tCKIPTUBAL ARGUMENT. 3 3 0
to conflict with a previous remark, that the righteous are not
said to be the subjects of a judgment. But in such cases
the allusion is generally to the formal process and solemnities
o f adjudication, in which the saints are represented rather
as ju d g in g than asjudged, although as a matter of fact it
must o f course be held, that all men without exception are
really the subjects o fretribution. This is clear from the apos­
tle’s declaration, “ For we must all appear before the judg­
ment-seat of Christ.” But that the judgment here spoken of
is the judgment of the great Messianic day, appears clear
from the intimation that Christ is here said to be ‘ready to
judge the quick and dead.’ This would seem fairly to imply
the actual present setting up of the tribunal, and this we
trust we have already shown must be dated from the date
of the Gospel kingdom. -
­
T he more common and accredited interpretation of the
phrase ‘ quick and dead ’ makes it to refer to those who shall
be alive at Christ’s second coming at the end of the world,
and the dead who shall have died previously to that event,
but who shall then be raised in order to be judged. “ None,”
says Pearson, “ shall be there judged while they ar#dead ;
whosoever stands before the judgment-seat shall appear alive;
but those which never died, shall be judged as they were
alive.” The difficulty cleaving to this interpretation is, that
we cannot find that ‘ end of the world ’ at which this event
is held as ordained to transpire. We have shown, we think,
that the only ‘judgment of the dead’ of which the Scrip­
tures speak as occurring at any particular epoch, is to be
located at the commencement of the New Jerusalem state,
which is indefinitely far from being at the winding up of the
present mundane system. It is, on the contrary, the predict­
ed consummation and perfection of that great order of things
which has been so long evolving itself on earth, and which
is at last to merge into a glorious sabbatisra of the world, of
undefined duration. The evidence of this must first be dis­
posed of, before it will be possible to assign a general resur-
Digitized by Google
3 4 0 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
rection and judgment, and the second advent of Christ, to
any such imagined ‘ end of the world.’
So again when Paul tells the Athenians that “ God had
appointed a day when he would judge the world by that man
whom he had ordained,” we read nothing more in the dec­
laration than what Paul as a Jew had learned from his own
oracles respecting the day or dispensation of the Messiah,
which was universally understood to be a day o fjudgment,
and whieh has actually proved to be such by the course of
events under the Gospel kingdom.
That this is the true sense of the passage, as emanating
from the mind of the Spirit by whom it was prompted, is
to be inferred from the words that immediately follow—
“ whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he
hath raised him from the dead.” We have already seen how
intimately the resurrection of Christ is connected with the
assumption of his regal dominion, to be exercised on earth
during the Gospel dispensation, and the process ofjudgment
begins at the same point and flows on through the same
period. We see for ourselves nothing in the passage which
necesdtrily implies the distant futurity of the day alluded
to. On the contrary, when viewed in connexion with the
general drift, of the Scriptural announcements on this sub­
ject, the most plain and obvious sense seems to be, that the
day had already come—that after long ages of forbearance, a
dispensation had now been ushered in of which Jesus Christ
was the head, that was to be distinguished by a grand dis­
criminating process among all classes of men. O f this
truth the apostle affirms that God was now giving assurance
(nagaoxwv, in the present tense), in the fact of having raised
up Jesus from the dead. But he was raised upfo r this very
purpose, that he might enter at once upon that great process
of judgment by which his kingdom was to be characterized.
In this fact consisted the force of the ‘ assurance.’ And
thus are we elsewhere informed, Rom. 14. 9, “ To this end
Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he might be
yGoogk
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 341
Lord both of the dead and living,” and if Lord, then cer­
tainly Judge. Nothing, we conceive, can be fairly urged
against this interpretation, but the impressions which have
been traditionally received on the general subject. But
even these, we think, will give way before the demonstrable
position, that the established rendering—‘ hath appointed a
day’,—is entirely without proof. It is impossible that the
reader should be more surprised at the announcement of this
fact, than were we ourselves at its discovery. A fact it
nevertheless is. We are fully prepared to evince that the
use, in this connexion, of the word ‘ appointed,’ considered
as synonymous with fixed, decreed, ordained, is completely
unauthorized by the established diction of holy writ. The
original word is «rojos, which, as every Greek scholar is
aware, comes from the root '¿ovripi, signifying in its primi­
tive and intransitive sense to stand, thence in its active im­
port to cause to stand, to place, to settle, and finally, follow­
ing the natural train of thought, to establish, ratify, confirm ;
in which sense it is applied to confirming or establishing
testimony— a kingdom— a late— an oath, &c. The word
occurs in the Aorist, as here, twelve times in the New Tes­
tament, exclusive of the present, in not one of which does
it bear a sense that warrants the rendering in question. It
is true, indeed, that both Schleusner and Bretschneidergive
the word in this passage the meaning of prastituo, prcefigo,
constituo, certo definio, to appoint or fix beforehand, but as
they neither of them give any authority, it must of course
be deemed no more than their private opinion, and the defi­
nitions of a Lexicon are of very little account, except so far
as they are sustained by the Concordance. But a reference
to the Concordance will fail to afford a single instance, apart
from this, where the sense of appoint, purpose,fix by previ-
otts decree, can be legitimately assigned to the term. That
idea, as we shall soon see, is appropriately expressed by an­
other word entirely. The instances, so far as we have been
able to discover, whieh come nearest to the point, are the
following: Mat. 2i>. 15, “ And they covenanted (iinijoca/)
with him for thirty pieces of silver.” Acts 1.23, “ And
they appointed (taiijaav) two, Joseph and Matthias.” This
clearly denotes an act that was done at the time. Acts 7. 60,
“ And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord,
lay not this sin to their charge (fiy a tr^t).” In nearly every
other instance the word is used, in this tense, to denote a
local standing or placing. In other modes and tenses, be­
sides the literal sense of station or collocation, the dominant
import of the verb is to establish, not in purpose, but in act.
Thus Rom. 3. 31, “ Yea, we establish Ihn&ytv) the law.”
Rom. 10. 3, “ Going about to establish (<nr,oai) their own
righteousness.” Hebrews 10. 9, “ He taketh away the first
that he may establish the second.” Mat. 18. 16,
“ That in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word
may be established ( m a O f i ) . ” We are unable to discover any
other passages in the Gospels or Epistles bearing more di­
rectly on the usus loquendi than those we have now cited,
and from these it must be apparent that the rendering is not
sustained, as in all of them the idea offuturition is entirely
wanting. They denote a present and not a purposed act.
On recurring to the Septuagint we find the original verb
in a vast majority of cases employed to represent either the
Hebrew word Tos to stand, or £?;, pas. 3S? to be set,placed,
or stationed. Repeated examples occur of its being used
in the metaphorical sense of establish, confirm, make sure
and steadfast, precisely similar to those already quoted from
the New Testament. But out of a list of four or five hun­
dred instances given in Trommius, we have not been able
to find a single unequivocal case where the word is to be
rendered in the sense of previously appointed, fixed, or or­
dained, in reference to an event or a fact of future accom­
plishment. But for this, in regard to both Testaments, a
very good reason may be assigned. The proper term for
expressing that idea is not but ddyfu, to put, toplace,
and secondarily to appoint, constitute, ordain, in which latter
3 4 2 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
Digitized by Google
THS SCRIPTURAL ASSUMENT. 343
sense it is expressly applied to the designation o f set times
and seasons in Acts 1. 2 3 It is not for you to know the
times and the seasons which the Father has put (t&ero, set,
constituted or fixed) in his own power,” i. e. in the exercise
of his supreme power. Other instances are the following :
Acts 13. 47, “ I have set (ri&nxa) thee to be a light of the
Gentiles,” &c. Heb. 12, “ Whom he hath appointed (t&ijxa)
heir of all things”. 1 Thes. 5. 9, “ For God hath not appoint­
ed (t&t o ) u s to wrath,” &c. 1 Pet. 2. 8 , “ Whereunto also
they were appointed (iii&yoa*).” John 15. 16, “ I have
chosen you, and ordained (t&ijxa) you, that ye should go,”
&.c. This usage might be still farther illustrated, and with
equal fulness from the Septuagint, but we presume the above
array of citations will be sufficient to make good our position,
that the proper term, in Biblical style, for conveying the
idea of decretory appointment is ri&ijfit and not itrrrjfii.
To what conclusion then are we brought in regard to the
passage before us, “ God hath appointed (iorijot) a day in
which he will judge the world ?” Is it not inevitable that
the sense to be assigned is, that God hath established at
the present time such day 1—that it is even now current—
that it is brought in—and that in this fact lies the great mo­
tive to repentance which the apostle urges upon the Atheni­
ans ? We cannot for ourselves get over the evidence that
the term in its genuine import denotes the establishment in
the present time of the designated day; nor will it of course
be possible to convict this view of error except, in the first
instance, on philological and not on theological grounds.
We have no peculiar complacency in disturbing or unset­
tling the fixed views of Christendom in regard to the mean­
ing of terms involving important points of doctrine. But
then, on the other hand, we hold the claims of Truth to be
imperative and paramount, and we cannot consent to pur­
chase exemption from even the most trying imputations by
witholding the utterance of our solemn convictions on the
momentous themes of revelation.
Digitized by Google
344 THE DOCTKINE 0 7 THE KESCRBECTION.
Nor is it to be overlooked in this connexion, that several
of the passages usually interpreted of a particular day of
future judgment are in reality, in their genuine import, of a
far more general bearing than the English reader would
suppose. Thus Mat. 10. 15, “ Verily I say unto you, it
shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah
in a day o f judgment (b fifupa xglotug), than for that city.”
Mat. 12. 38, “ But I say unto you, that every idle word that
men shall speak, they shall give account thereof tn a day of
judgment (b r^iiqa xyiattos).” 2 Pet. 2 9, “ The Lord
knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, and to
reserve the unjust unto a day o fjudgment (tlt^yiqay xgloetot)
to be punished.” 2 Pet. 3. 7, “ But the heavens and the
earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store,
reserved unto fire against a day of judgment (tit Tjpigax
xglmeog) and perdition of ungodly men.” Rom. 2. 16, “ In
a day (ivrjftifa) when God shall judge the secrets of men by
Jesus Christ, according to my Gospel.” In respect to these
cases, and others similar, we do not feel called upon to pro­
nounce as to the degree of positive testimony which they
afford to the view of the subject we are now advocating.
We simply adduce the usage as a matter of fa ct, upon
which the reader will form his own opinion. There are
indeed other instances where the more definite expression
i v t f i r j f t i f a x q i a t w g , in the day of judgment, occurs, but the
former also occurs, and is doubtless founded upon some
sufficient reason, if we were capable of ascertaining it.
At the same time we do not feel urged by any special
necessity to rest the weight of our main conclusion on any
minor point of doubtful criticism. The true sense of Scrip­
ture is that sense which is according to truth. The grand
doctrine of judgment revealed in the holy oracles is, that
man shall be judged; just as the grand doctrine of the res­
urrection is, that man shall rise. As to the exact manner of
the accomplishment of the one or the other, we see no
grounds for believing that any announcements of revela-
*
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 4 5
tion were designed to be so imperatively categorical and
final as to preclude our rational researches into the intrinsic
nature of those processes, or to forbid the adoption of the
sound conclusions thence resulting. Let us suppose, then,
that these results are in fact nothing short of the discovery
that both the resurrection and the judgment actually resolve
themselves into a law o f our nature—that our physical,
psychical, and moral constitution is such, that we really and
necessarily rise at death into the true resurrection, and that
in so doing we ipsofacto become the subjects of a
.judgment
which seals our destiny for eternal ages. Can we set aside
this decision of our reason when we come to the interpreta­
tion of the literal record bearing upon these events? Is it
possible that it should not control our construction of the
letter of the word, in the numerous instances in which it
seems to localize and tie down to a crisis a process which
we know to be continually going on ? Can we forego the
certain and give ourselves up to the ambiguous ? Is this
the required mode of doing homage to that word which so
bids us to count truth our highest treasure ? And what, we
ask again, is the true sense of Scripture but its accordance
with truth ?
We have thus, we believe, brought under review all the
important and leading texts, both in the Old and New Tes­
tament, bearing upon the subject of the resurrection. We
have endeavored to subject them to the test of a free but
fair exegesis, and the results are now before us. Without
assuming to be free from the bias which must be conceived
as operating throughout in favor of the theory, so to term it,
which we have aimed to establish, we may still perhaps be
allowed to claim a competency to judge, in some impartial
degree, of the weight of the evidence adduced in support of
Digitized by Google
346 TBE BOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
our position. Admitting the possibility that the law of the
development of our future being may be very probably
ascertained by a scientific inquest into the physical and in­
tellectual constitution with which we are endowed, the pre­
sumption is certainly warranted that the language of revela­
tion on the subject is so framed as not to be intrinsically in­
consistent with our previous conclusions. It may not indeed
be so constructed as to yield that as the most direct and ob­
vious sense, which we are convinced is the true sense, and
yet we should reasonably expect it to be of such a character
as would not irreconcilably conflict with the assumed verity
of the doctrine. We have seen, if we mistake not, that the
language of the inspired oracles does really answer to this
condition. It has been shown, we think, upon competent
grounds, that the leading term employed for conveying the
doctrine—‘Anastasia,’ resurrection—genuinely implies the
idea of future life, future living again after death. The
implication of the revival o f the dead body is not involved
in the true sense of the word, in its general use in this con­
nexion. The proof of this point must be considered as the
virtual establishment of our position ; for the generally re­
ceived sense of this term is the main pillar of the generally
received doctrine. The inevitable query at once occurs, If
the doctrine of the resurrection of the body is not taught by
the term ‘ resurrection ’ fairly interpreted, by what is it
taught? * We admit, indeed, the possibility that the term
* Revivification,’ it is argued, ‘ implies previous deadness ; rising
again, previous recumbency. But the interred body is alone either dead
or recumbent. Reject the resurrection of the interred body, and you re­
ject the resurrection altogether.’ Revivification and resurrection, it is
replied, imply continued organization ; the interred body is not only dead
but entirely disorganized, therefore resurrection cannot apply to the in­
terred body Its so-called resurrection would not be resurrection but sub­
limation. Resurrection applies to the deceased man, and not to that with
which he ceased, on his relatively dying, to have any connection, and
which never formed a part of his essential manhood, a manhood neither
composite nor partible. . . . He who, when he says, ‘ I believe in the re-
Digitized by Google
THB SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 4 7
may be used in such connexions and relations, as to seem
to teach the tenet in question, but we claim nevertheless
to have shown, that in all the passages which would natu­
rally be referred to and relied upon for this purpose, a sense
may be elicited, without the least violence to language, that
entirely harmonizes with the asserted genuine import of the
term.
What then becomes of the Scriptural evidence of the re­
surrection o f the body ? Does it not evaporate in the cruci­
ble of logical and philological induction ? And is it not
inevitable that a great change must come over our estimate
of the doctrine, viewed as a disclosure of holy writ ? Can
it hereafter present the same aspect to the reflecting mind
as formerly, when conceived to involve the averment of the
requickening of the inhumed relics of the corporeal struc­
ture ? Especially, are we not presented with a new and all­
important view of the central fact, our Saviour’s resurrec­
tion ? Conscious we may be of a severe shock to all our
fixed preconceptions on the subject, so that we can scarcely
refrain from the exclamation of Mary, “ They have taken
away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him,”
and yet can the evidence be resisted? But if admitted, how
sublime and interesting the inference that follows! As our
Lord forthwith emerged from his temporary subjection to
death into a glorious resurrection-state, so also do all his
members, the participants of that divine quickening princi­
ple which they derive from him, pass at once from their cor­
ruptible to their incorruptible existence, and appear in his
presence clad in his likeness. No centurial sleep of the
soul—no imperfect state of disembodied consciousness—no
semi-celestialized condition—awaits the heirs of ‘ the resur-
surrection of the body,’really means, ‘I believe in the sublimation of the
corpse,’ says what he really does not mean, or really believe. The an­
cient millenarians were more honest, though not less mistaken ; they be­
lieved in the resurrection of every tooth and nail.” Stephenson's Chris-
tology, Vol- II. p. 193.
Digitized by Google
3 4 3 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
rection and the life.’ The deposition of their garments of
flesh is but the signal for their enrobement with the vesture
of light in which they shall shine forth as the brightness of
the sun in the firmament of heaven. Mo unrelieved longing
for the resumption of their ‘ house which is from earth ’ can
chill the ardor of ecstatic spirits for ever at home in their
‘ houses which are from heaven.’ The departure of the saints
from the present life is but the development of that heaven­
ly manhood which admits them at once to eternal fellowship
with all that are within the veil, and to a complete and ever­
lasting union with their risen and redeeming Head, around
whom the spirit-bodied hosts, in ever multiplying circles,
continue to cluster. The true Levites of the universe, they
gather round the celestial tabernacle, the enthronement of
the Shekinah, whose light is ever on them, and to whose
glory their own will be for ever more and more assimilated.
By being translated they become eternally transfigured, like
Moses and Elias on the holy mount, and no supervening
‘ heaviness from sleep’ shall ever interrupt the exclamation—
prompted by a rapture which Peter never knew— ‘ Lord, it
is good for us to be here 1
’
C H A P T E R XI.
“ The Times of the Restitution of all Things."
T h e obvious relation of the remarkable passage in Pe­
ter’s discourse, Acts 3. 19-21, to the general subject of
Scriptural Eschatology, with which our whole discussion is
closely linked, suggests the propriety of a somewhat minute
and critical survey of the apostle’s language. It holds, as
is well known, a prominent place in the general system of
interpretation denominated Millenarian, and in the view
which that theory takes of it, it stands confrontingly in the
yGoogk
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 4 9
way of the leading results to which we hare come in the
preceding pages. We propose, therefore, to attempt a care­
ful exegesis of the passage, the results of which may perhaps
leave it in the attitude of alliance rather than of conflict
with our dominant conclusions.
A cts III. 19-21.
GR.
MsTavorjaaTS ovv x a t sm-
argsipazE, stg to ¿^aleiqi&qvai
Vftajv jag afiaqziag, ontog av
ei.&cooi xaiqo'i avatpv^ecog ano
nqogmnov tov xvqiov,
Kal anoazeiXrj t 'o
v nqoxey-
aqiofievov vfiiv ’Jqaovv Xqi-
otov,
Ov delovqavovftiv St^aa&at
ayqr yqbvzov anoxazaardaecog
Tzavzmv, <
ov ¿iaitjosv o &ebg
dia czouazog rav ayicov av-
tov zzqocpyzwv an aiavog.
ENG. VERS.
Repent ye therefore, and be
converted, that your sins may
be blotted out, when the times
of refreshing shall come from
the presence of the Lord;
And he shall send Jesus
Christ, which before was
preached unto you:
Whom the heaven must re­
ceive until the times of resti­
tution of all things, which God
hath spoken by the mouth of
all his holy prophets since the
world began.
These words are a part of Peter’s discourse on the occa­
sion of the healing of a lame man at the Beautiful Gate of
the Temple. As the people flocked together in amaze, on
the report of the miracle, Peter seized the opportunity to
preach to them Christ crucified, at the same time charging
upon them the guilt of his slaying, and affirming that God
had again raised him from the dead, of which they (the
apostles) were witnesses, and that it was through faith in
the name of this crucified and risen Saviour, that perfect
soundness had been imparted to the cripple before them.
He then goes on to mention all the apology of which their
conduct would admit, to wit, that they had done it through
ignorance; and finally closes by urging them to repent, from
this among other motives,—that their sins might be blotted
out when the times of refreshing should come from the pres­
ence of the Lord.
16
Digitized by Googk
3 5 0 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
The inference is doubtless very clear, that Peter alludes
to a time or state o f things which there was reason to ex­
pect ; and which was in fact the subject of a well-known
and prevalent anticipation among the Jews. The grounds
ofsuch an anticipation must ofcourse have been the prophetic
announcements of the Old Testament, and these we are no
doubt able to recognize in many of that class of predictions
which are emphatically termed Messianic. But before at­
tempting to specify these, it will be well to endeavor to
concentrate all attainable light upon the import of the ex­
pression xcuqoI avaif/vieoig, times o f refreshing.
The term ard^vitg, which occurs but in this single in­
stance in the New Testament, is derived from the verb
avaijjvxto, the distinct primitive elements of which, according
to some lexicographers, are ¿tea, again, and ynxof, cold, and
thus intimating that kind of refreshment or recreation which
is produced by cooling, after excessive heat. The Vulgate
accordingly renders the phrase in this place by tempora re-
frigerii, times of refrigeration. As however a leading
sense of the verb yvx°>> the ultimate radical, is to breathe,
so the refreshing indicated by the term avoufivlts involves the
closely related idea of thatfree respiration, which is effected,
for instance, by the operation of fanning, when one is ex­
hausted and faint. The definitions given by Hesychius and
Stephens of the primitive etymon illustrate the usage still
more fully. The latter thus defines arafvxot; refrigero
eventilo; interdumpro abstergo, desicco ; metaphorice, recreo,
refocillo, refdo, proprie reficio a calore. He then quotes
Eustathius, who says that etvai/nxnv implies restorationfrom a
kind o f deliquium, or failure o f animation, as anoifwj>ur,
on the contrary, signifies animam effiare, to breathe out
the soul, or to experience a suspended animation. As to
the derivative avai/wiis, he remarks that while its literal
sense is refrigeration, it is used metaphorically for recre­
ation, refreshment (refocillatio). Hesychius in his lex­
icon defines the verb iyaipixa by artploat from uvtpot, wind,
yGoogk
THB SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 51
i. e., to refresh by agitating the air, and the participle ava-
yvzwy by avanrto»', breathing again; and the substantive
ovKtjn'iif is equivalent to avanavaic, rest, and also in some
cases to naQapv&la, consolation, comfort, with which
agrees the Syriac rendering of the present passage, times of
tranquillity.
On the whole, we collect from these authorities the lead­
ing idea of coolingfrom the agitation o f the air and that
consequent refreshment and invigoration which is the result
of a freer andfuller respiration, to one who is well nigh ex­
hausted by oppressive heat orfatigue. It implies a kind of
return to the body of its animating principle, and an effect
which we should express in English by the word inspirit­
ing, as the relation of the original word to ys'xrh soul, is
very obvious.
As to the Septuagint usage, this particular word occurs
there also but once, viz., Ex. 8. 15: “ But when Pharaoh
saw that there was respite (araipviig), he hardened his
heart,” where the original Heb. n n ^ properly implies
relaxation, remission. But the cognate uvaqnxf,, and the.
verb avmpvxo>
, not unfrequently occur in a very analogous
sense, although employed as the representative of different
Heb. words. Thus, Ps. 66. 12, “ We went through fire and
water; but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place (els
avaipvxrjv).” Jer. 49. 31, “ Arise, get you upun to the wealthy
nation, that dwelleth without care (xa&i'peros elg uvaifivx^v).’’
Ps. 39. 13, “ O spare me, that I may recover strength
(aratpvita) before I go hence and be no more.” The Heb.
is here from to exhilarate. Ex. 23. 12, “ That
thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thine hand­
maid and the stranger may be refreshed (uruipvi)]).” Heb.
ttiB|*,may be re-souled, from root t:E3, soul. 2 Sam. 16. 14,
“ And the king, and all the people that were with him,
came weary, and refreshed (uvcyvfrv) themselves there.”
Heb. t5Bp, as before. 1 Sam. 16. 23, “ So Saul was
refreshed (aveyvxs), and was well.” Heb. ni^, to be wide,
Digitized by Google
3 5 2 TH E DOCTRINE OF T H E RESURRECTION.
spacious, hence metaphorically to have space to breathe in, to
berefreshed. In all these cases the predominant sense of what
may be termed freshened animation is obvious. But this idea
is closely related to that of resurrection, considered in its fre­
quent scriptural sense of moral or spiritual revivification;
and therefore it is not surprising that some commentators
have been led to compare this phrase with the Syriac and
Chaldaic formula ‘day of consolation ’ for ‘ day of resurrec­
tion.’ Hos. 6. 2, “ He will revive (or vivify) us in the days
of consolation, which shall come in the days of the vivifica­
tion of the dead.” As we have already seen that the
sense of refreshment as expressed, by the word before us is
analogous to that of consolation, and as consolation and
resurrection convey in these ancient dialects kindred con­
ceptions, it is but taking a legitimate step in logic to con­
nect the idea of refreshment or réanimation with that of
resurrection, i. e., spiritual resurrection. Accordingly
Heinsius remarks (Exerc. S. S. p. 272), that “ the Rab­
binical writers call the future life a refreshing—cinss nnn
tO“i, respiration in the world to come, as when they say
one hour o f refreshment in the world to come is better than a
whole life in the present world.” The phrase therefore we
take to be a general designation of the auspicious times of the
Messiah, in connexion with whose dispensation there was
to be a period of revival and refreshment, which is fre­
quently set forth under terms appropriate to a grand
spiritual quickening, such as we have already intimated to
be characteristic of that destined economy. An equivalent
phraseology discloses itself repeatedly in the Old Testament
prophets, and the predicted inspiriting the dry bones and
lifeless bodies of Ezekiel’s vision is perhaps to be recog­
nized as one of the foundation passages on which it rests.
An allusion, though somewhat obscurely conveyed, may
perhaps be recognized in the passage to Is. 28. 12, “ To
whom he said, This is the rest wherewith ye may cause
the weary to rest: and this is is the refreshing (Vulg. re-
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 353
frigerium) : yet they would not hear.” It is worthy of no­
tice, that the Hebrew word for rest in this text is nnwo, from
tiss to rest, the true origin of the Syriac rendered
tranquillity in the passage of Peter, and closely related to
IlohoJ nuhama, rendered consolation, and applied, as we
have already seen, to the resurrection.
Viewed in the light now suggested, the words are a very
appropriate and characteristic designation of the times of
the Messiah, or the great Gospel era. This was to be a
period of moral quickening, refreshing, and rest, and the
phrase before us falls into entire coincidence with the res­
titution or restoration o f all things shortly to be considered.
This period is to be regarded as commencing with the com­
mencement of the Gospel kingdom ; and this we hare al­
ready shown to be synchronical with the incipient second
coming of Christ after his resurrection and ascension. The
drift of Peter’s exhortation is, that his hearers should repent,
as the grand and indispensable means of bringing upon them
the signal blessings of this glorious and happy dispensation,
which had just opened upon the world. It was only in thiB
way that they could come into a full participation of the in­
estimable benefits of the Gospel economy.
But it might seem that a different shade of meaning is
given to the passage by the words of our established version;
“ Repent ye, therefore, and be converted, that your sins may
be blotted out when the times of refreshing shall come,”
& c. But upon recurrence to the original, we find great
reason to doubt whether the true sense of the words is given
in this connexion. The rending of the Greek is o n u g a *
ti&tooi, of which the rendering accredited by prevailing
usage is undoubtedly in order that they may come, instead of
when they come, or when they may have come. The latter
sense is perhaps grammatically possible, and is actually
adopted by several respectable commentators. Thus Beza,
£. Schmidius, and Glassius render by ‘postquam venerint,’
after they shall have come. Vulg. ‘ ut cum venerint,’ that
Digitized by Googk
3 5 4 T H E D O C T R IN E OP T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
when they may have come. It is observed however by KuinoSl,
that the examples cited in support of this construction are
not strictly in point, as the verb following the particle is in
the indicative instead of the subjunctive mode, as here. The
soundest view, therefore, is undoubtedly that adopted by the
mass of interpreters who take onus am in the telic sense of
‘that,’ 1 in order that,’ i. e., as denoting the fin a l cause or
reason of the specified action. The phrase occurs frequent­
ly in the Septuagint, in which it answers to jsob, to the end
that, as Ps. 9. 14, “ That I may showforth (onus ami£ayyelXm)
thy praises.” Ps. 92. 7, That they may be destroyed (onus
am ¿iolo&pevouom) forever.” Ps. 119. 101, “ Titat I may
keep (onus ar qpi'laf») thy words.” Thus too in the New Tes­
tament, Acts 15.17, “ That the residue of menmay seek (onus
amixirfxrjauoiv) the Lord.” Luke 2. 35, “ That the thoughts
o f many hearts may be revealed (onus av anoxaHixp&akrtr).”
Rom. 3.4, “ That thou mayst bejustified (onus ardixaiudfs).”
So in Aristophanes, onus artiSjj, that he may know. Thus
too the Syriac version of the passage, “ That your sins may
be blotted out, and the times of refreshing may come.” Ter-
tullian, ‘ Ut tempora supervenient,’ that the times may super­
vene. IrensEus, ‘Ut veniant,’ that they may come.*
These examples are doubtless sufficient to establish the
usage. The purport of the apostolic injunction is, that
they should repent in order that the times of refreshing
might come. Consequently the remarks of LightfoOt on the
passage, viewed in its Millenarian bearings, stand in all their
* “ 'Orais is used 52 times without 4»; and in every instance (ex­
cept one, where it is an adverb, and is properly translated ‘ how’} it is
rightly rendered *that,’—being equivalent with Ira ovran, i. e., u t sic or
quomodo fiet, as is rightly observed by Hoogeveen, p. 426. The word
used in the New Testament to express ‘ the time when ’ is inti. rO nui is
not once found in this sense; and is seldom so used by other writers.
When it does so occur, it is followed by an indicative (like ut, when, in
Latin), as Iliad, B. XVII. 308.” Investigator o f Prophecy, Vol. II. p. 54.
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 8 6 5
force. “ The apostle is to be understood as speaking con­
cerning the present refreshing by the Gospel, and God’spres­
ent sending Christ among them in the power and ministry
of that,—and not of a refreshing at the calling of the Jews,
which is yet to com e; and God’s sending Christ personally
to come and reign among them, as some have dreamed; and
it is but a dream. For let but this text be seriously weigh­
ed in that sense, that opinion would make of it: ‘ Repent
therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted
oat, when the times of refreshing come;’ as meaning] this:
*Repent ye now, that your sins may be blotted out two
thousand, or I know not how many hundred, years hence,
when the calling of the Jews shall come.’ If thisbs not
the sense that they make of this text, that produce it to as­
sert Christ’s personal reign on earth for a thousand years,—
I know not why they should then produce it; and if this be
the sense, I must confess I see no sense in it.” He then
goes on to observe with the utmost justice, as we conceive,
that “ the words are facile and dear, and have no intricacy
at all in them, if the Scripture may be suffered to go upon
its own wheels; and they may be taken up in this plain and
undeniable paraphrase: 1 Repent ye, therefore, and be con­
verted, that your sins may be blotted out; so that the times
of refreshing by the Gospel may come upon you from the
presence of the Lord; and he may send Jesus Christ in the
preaching of the Gospel to you, to bless you in turning
away every one of you from his iniquities.’ ”
The only objection that can be urged, with any show of
reason, against this interpretation is, that it represents a state
of things which had already come as being still a subject of
future occurrence. How, it is asked, could the Jews be ex­
horted to repent in order to bring about an event which, by
the supposition, had already entered upon a process of ful­
filment t The sufficient reply is, that no impropriety can
be charged upon the use of this language, when we are ex­
pressly taught to pray that the ‘ kingdom of God may come,'
Digitized by Google
3 5 6 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E B E S C R B E C T IO N .
although that kingdom was long ago established, and has in
fact been coming, from age to age, ever since the period of
the ascension ? In uttering this prayer we merely express
the desire that the kingdom may continue to come—that it
may come with deeper power end wider spread—that it may
more fully realize to men all the blessings it was intended
to convey. So it is easy to conceive that although the
‘ times of refreshing ’ had really been ushered in, and Peter’s
hearers were living under them, yet their repentance might
still be the means, and the only means, of securing to them­
selves all the benign effects which those ‘ times ’ were cal­
culated to produce. Mr. Barnes in his Notes (in loc.) has
well expressed the leading idea of the passage in the follow­
ing paraphrase:—“ ‘ You are living under the times of the
Gospel, the reign of the Messiah, the times of refreshing.
This happy, glorious period has been long anticipated, and
is to continue to the close of the world; the period in­
cluding the restitution of all things, and the return of Christ,
to judgment, has come; and is therefore the period when
you can find mercy, and you should seek it, to be prepared
for his return.’ In this sense the passage refers to the fact,
that this time, this dispensation, this economy, including all
this, had come, and they were living under it, and might
and should seek for mercy. It expresses, therefore, the
common belief o f the Jews that such a time should come, and
the comment of Peter about its nature and continuance.
That time had come. The doctrine that it should come
was well-founded, and had been fulfilled. This was a rea­
son why they should repent and hope in the mercy of God.”
On any other view we can see no pertinency in the apostle’s
argument.
“ And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was
preached unto y o u t h a t is,— ‘ And the promise of send­
ing Jesus Christ shall be fulfilled.’ It does not, any more
than the former phrase, imply the futurition of the sending
relatively to the time when Peter uttered the words, but in
yGoogk
T U B S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 8 6 7
reference to the time when the promise was given. Thus
in like manner, Mat. 17. 11, “ And Je6us answered and
said, Elias truly shall first come, and restore all things;”
that is, the declaration that Elias shouldfirst come was true,
although he immediately adds that it had already taken
place. So here. The economy, the dispensation, which
was to be distinguished by this second coming of Christ,
had entered upon its incipient stages, and they are ex­
horted to hasten to avail themselves of its advantages.
“ Whom the heaven must receive (or 8ti ovgaror fit*
8t£ao&€u).” The grammatical construction is here subject
to some doubt, as the words may be rendered either,
‘ whom the heaven must receive,’ or, ‘ who mu§t receive
the heaven.’ Commentators are accordingly divided as to
their genuine import. The drift of the announcement is
substantially the same on either construction, but for our­
selves we prefer the latter, from its bringing the passage
into harmony with repeated intimations in Daniel, where
the term ‘ heaven,’ or *heavens,’ is expressively employed
to denote, by way of eminence, the seat of the mediatorial
kingdom, and as in fact equivalent to the Divine Occupant
himself. Thus, Dan. 4. 26, “ Thy kingdom shall be sure
unto thee after that thou shalt have known that the heavens
do rule.” So the phrases, ‘ the God of heaven,’ ‘ the Lord
of heaven,’ ‘ the kingdom of heaven,’ &c., are of more
frequent occurrence in Daniel than any other sacred writer,
and he is peculiarly the prophet of the second advent,
which commenced on the establishment of the Gospel king­
dom. The necessity, therefore, of the fulfilment of these
predictions of Daniel seems to have laid the foundation for
the use of the word 8t%
, must. The express declarations of
the Old Testament prophet made it not only fit and proper,
but absolutely indispensable, that our risen Lord should
‘ receive,’ i. e. should occupy, the heavens as his permanent
abiding-place, and the palace of his power, till all his
enemies were subdued. It was n ecessary, moreover, in
16*
3 5 S T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
order to the fulfilment of the oracle, Ps. 110. 1, “ Sit thou at
my right hand, till I have made thine enemies thy footstool.”
The words therefore are an intimation of the power and
exaltation to which Christ was to be advanced, and which is
elsewhere expressed as follows, 1 Pet. 3. 22, “ Who is
gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of G od; angels
and authorities and powers being made subject unto him.”
Heaven was henceforth to be his throne, from which the
affairs of his kingdom were to be administered, and from
which he was still to be continually coming, as we have
already shown, in the demonstrations of his spiritual power
and his all-controlling providence. But this brings us to a
still more important part of the announcement.
“ Until the times of the restitution of all things, which
God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since
the world began.” The true construction of this clause
depends upon the determination of the genuine import of
the phrase axqt XQov<ov, until the times. On this point we
do not hesitate to adopt the sense of during, implying not
the terminus, but the continuance, of the period in question,
or, in other words, that Christ is to continue to occupy the
heavens during and to the end of the times of the restitution
of all things. The usage confirming this acceptation is
capable of being very fully illustrated. The following are
cases strikingly in point.* Acts 20. 6 , “ And came unto
them to Troas in Jive days (axqtq riftegar n e r r e ) i. e. were
five days in accomplishing the voyage. Acts 13. 11,
“ Thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun fo r a season
(axQt xatqov); i. e. during a season. Luke 4. 13 : “ And
when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed
from him fo r a season (o/p* x a t p o S ) i . e. during a season.
Acts 27. 33, “ And while (axqt ov) the day was coming on;”
i. e. during the time that the day was dawning. Rom. 8 .
* “ Non semper terminum temporis seu tempos ad quod, sed etiam
intervallum, tractum temporis quo aliquid factum fuerit, significat."
Schleuaner.
Digitized by Google
f i n icmiPTURAL A B otm irr.
22, “ The whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain
together until now («/pi tov vvv) i. e. during the whole past
interval till now. Rom. 11 25, “ Blindness in part is hap­
pened to Israel until (azQis ov) the fulness of the Gentiles
be come i n i . e. as Schleusner renders it, ‘ So long as the
fulness of the Gentiles shall be coming in.’ Heb. 3. 13,
“ But exhort one another daily while (ap/»j ov) it is called
to-day.”
The fact is, this will be found upon examination to be
the predominant sense of the term, and we do not hesitate
to apply it to the following passages : Rev. 15. 8 , “ And no
man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues
of the seven angels were fulfilled (u/oi TsXtcr&dkne)i. e.
So long as these plagues were fulfilling. Rev. 17. 17, “ For
God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to agree,
and give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God
shall he fulfilled (velto&ijooKxt)i. e. while the words of
God are fulfilling. Rev. 20. 3, “ That he should deceive
the nations no more till the thousand years should be fu l­
filled (u/$i T tlto & fi) i. e. while the thousand years should
be in the course of fulfillment. Rev. 20. 5, “ The rest of
the dead lived not again till the thousand years werefinished
(uXQi reltadf) i. e. while the thousand years were finishing;
which, however, by no means implies that they did live after
the expiration of that time, as there is no authority for the
insertion of the word ‘ again ’ in the text.
The foregoing adduction of instances we presume will be
sufficient to afford a very strong confirmation of the sense we
have assigned to the term in the passage before us. Christ
retains his celestial throne during the lapse of the entire
period that the grand restitution is going on, nor is there
any necessary implication that he will even then, in any
sense, vacate it, or return to the earth in any differe'“
manner from that in which he had continued to visit it
during the whole period of his heavenly session, viz., by hjs
yGoogk
T H E D O C T R IN E \S F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
spiritual and providential presence. But we may still admit
that though the manner will be the same, the degree will be
different. We think there is abundant evidence that there
is in reserve for the latter days of this world’s destiny a far
more illustrious and glorious display of the spiritual power
of Christ in his Gospel than has ever yet been witnessed,
but as to any such event as is usually anticipated under the
denomination of the second personal advent, we apprehend
that it will never arrive, simply for the reason that we be­
lieve such an advent was never promised, and that that
which teas promised took place, or began to take place,
token it was promised, and that was eighteen centuries ago.
If the developments of time should hereafter realize such a
coming, it will of course establish the fallacy of our conclu­
sions ; but we abide firm in the conviction that nothing but
time will do it.*
But the purport of the remaining clause now claims
attention: “ The times of the restitution of all things.”
* The following nre selected from among the Jewish testimonies to
the tenet of a signal ‘restitution ’under the reign of the Messiah.
“ Man shall be restored in that time, namely in the days of the
Messiah, to that state in which he was before the first man sinned.” B.
Moses Nachmanides in Dent. § 4 5 .
“ R. Berakyah, in the name of R. Samuel, said: Although things were
created perfect, yet when the first man sinned, they were corrupted and
will not again return to their congruous state till Pherez (i. e. the Mes­
siah) comes, as it is said Ruth 4. 18, ‘ These are the generations (nilVn
toledoth) of Pherez.’ ‘ Toledoth’ is written full (with i), because there
are six things which shall be restored to their primitive state, viz., the
splendor of man, his life, the height of his stature, the fruits of the earth,
the fruits of the trees, and the luminaries (the sun, moon, and stars).”
Bereshith Babba, Fol. 11, Col. 3.
“ In that time (i. e. of the Messiah) the whole work of creation shall
be changed for the better, and shall return into its perfect and pure state,
as it was in the time of the first man, before he had sinned.” B. Beeai
fri Shilcan Orba, Fol. 9, Col. 4.
yGoogk
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 3 6 1
T he original term anoxaTaurtaait; is a derivative from
anoxa&itrtijpi, of which the primitive sense is to restore,
as for instance, a sprained or dislocated limb to its former
soundness, a diseased body to health, a captive people to
their own country, a distracted or lawless community to
order and good government. Hence the noun is defined
by philologists by emendatio, restitutio in pristinum statum,
mutationem in meliorem conditionem; all importing restitu­
tion, or restoration to a better state and condition.* With
this is obviously closely related the idea of consummation,
completion, perfection; whence Hesychius and Phavorinus
represent it by ■nlsiaoig, perfection. By the earlier inter­
preters it was understood in this connexion as equivalent to
accomplishment, or exhibition, or disposition, or fn a l settle­
ment. Thus the Syr. ‘ Until the fulness of the time of all
things.’ Arab., ‘ Until the times in which all the things
shall be perfected or finished.’ Iren. ‘ Until the times of
the disposition of all the things,’ &c. Tertull., ‘Until the
timesof the exhibition of all the things,’ & c. CEcum., ‘Until
the times that all the things come to an end.’
Mr. Faber endeavors to make out from the word the
sense of the actual accomplishment, the completed result, the
effected settlement or restoration of all things. To this he
was led by his desire to set aside the hypothesis of a pre-
millenarian restitution, which of course requires the sense,
not of a completed, but of a commencing and current restitu­
tion of all things predicted, which is to be wrought under
the personal reign of Christ during the Millennial period.
On the one theory, therefore, this restitution is to be dated
* “ Quamdiu tempora N. T. durant, quibus per religionem Chris-
tianam omnia in meliorem statum sunt redigenda,” as long as the times
o f the N . T . continue, in which by means o f the Christian religion all
things shall be reduced to a better state. Schleusnerin voc.
■
Airoicardorooii, the reetorationof any thing to its former state ; hence
changefrom worse to better, melioration, introduction of a new and better
fra, Robinson’s Lex. of N. T. in voc.
yGoogk
362 T U E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
at the commencement of the Millennium, when Christ is sup­
posed to return in person to the earth ; but on the other, at
the close, to which it is contended the second personal ad­
vent is more properly to be referred. Of these two views
the former undoubtedly involves the more correct interpre­
tation of the term, which denotes the act or process o f resti­
tution, but it is, in our view, utterly erroneous in regard to
the time to which this process is to be assigned. The ‘ res­
titution of all things,’ as we conceive it, is but another
name for that grand system of restoration or rectification
which was to distinguish the earthly and spiritual reign of
the Messiah during the continuance of the Gospel kingdom,
the commencement of which is to be carried back to the
era of the ascension. At that era our Lord’s reception or
occupancy of heaven began, and while he was seated on his
august throne in heaven, this process of ‘ restitution’ was to
be going on on the earth, conducted under his divine auspi­
ces, and brought at last to the sublime consummation which
is the burden of all prophecy, viz., the complete subjugation
of every opposing power, and the universal and heart-felt
acknowledgment of his supremacy as King of kings and
Lord of lords. Thus considered, the ‘ times of restitution’
is but another name for that g'orious Palingenesia or re­
generation of which our Saviour himself speaks in the prom­
ise to the chosen twelve, Mat. 19. 28, and to which Paul
refers Heb. 9. 10, under the phrase ‘ time of reformation’
( xuiqos dLOQ&wamg, time of setting to rights.)* Such a state
of things was to be the result, gradually perfected, of the in­
troduction of the evangelical economy, and notwithstanding
the hitherto partial and inadequate developments wrought
* “ The word here rendered reformation (It6p8wtrii) means properly
emendation, improvement, reform. It refers to putting a thing in a right
condition ; making it better; or raising up and restoring that which has
fallen down. Here the reference is undoubtedly to the gospel as being a
better system— a putting things where they ought to be.” Barnes in loc,
^Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 6 3
out by the spirit and the institutions of Christianity, no
candid arbiter can fail to acknowledge, that a stupendous
transformation has been effected by them on the wide arena
o f the world, and that the leaven is still latently working
which shall eventually leaven the whole lump of human
kind.
What is wanting, then, in support of our interpretation Î
Does not the apostle’s appeal rest, on the view propounded,
on a solid and sustainable basis ? He exhorts the Jews to
repentance on the ground of that expected dispensation
having been actually ushered in, which was the theme of the
sublimest visionings of the ancient seers. They were then
living under that economy which was pre-eminently to be
distinguished as a period of ‘ refreshing’ and ‘ restitution.’
Jesus Christ had been exalted to heaven in person, that he
might thence be sent to them in spirit and in power*
* In
* “ I may, perhaps, betray my ignorance in the Greek tongue, if I
should confess that I cannot see by what authority of that language the
most learned interpreters have rendered oirus iv l\9oiair ‘ that when the
times of refreshing »hall came,’ as the Vulgar, Erasmus, and the Interline­
ar ; or ‘when they shall come as the English, French, and Italian ; or
*after they shall come,’ as Beza. Iam not ashamed to confess, I do
not understand by what reason they thus render it, when it agrees so well
with the idiom of that language to translate it, ‘ That the times of re­
freshing may come,’ and *God may send Jesus Christ to you.’ These last
words, ‘may send Jesus Christ1I suppose have begot the difficulty in
this place, and occasioned the variety of versions we meet with : and
how the Chiliasts apply these things is well known. But if our interpre­
tation be admitted, what could be more fully and plainly said to answer
the conceptions of the auditors, who might be ready to object against
what St. Peter had said—‘Is it so indeed 1 Was that Jesus whom we
have crucified, the true Christ? Then is all our hope of refreshment by
the.Messiah vanished, because he himself is vanished and gone. Then
our expectation, as to the consolation of Israel, is at an end, because he
who should be our consolation, is perished.’ ‘Not so,’ saith St. Peter,
‘ but the Messiah, and the refreshing by him, shall be restored to you, if
you will repent: yet so that he him self shall continue still in heaven.
He shall be sent to you in his refreshing and consolatory word, and in his
benefits, if you repent.’” Lightfoot Heb. b; Talm. Exerc. cn A cts 3. 19
Digitized by Google
3 6 4 THE DOCTRINE OP THE RESURRECTION.
the subsequent context he assures them that he had been
thus sent, as he expressly affirms, v. 26, “ Unto you first,
God having raised up his son Jesus, sent him to bless you,
in turning away every one of you from his iniquities.”*
What ground then remains for the Millenarian application
of this passage to the future paradisaical state, which is to
be effected in the physical and moral universe, at the
second personal coming of Christ immediately before the
commencement of the blessed thousand years l Is not this,
as Mr. Faber remarks, persuading the apostle to declare an
entirely different fact from that which his words, fairly in­
terpreted, convey 1 We have seen, if we mistake not, that
the inspired apostle, in speaking of the ‘times of refreshing
* “ This cannot possibly be understood of Christ’s personally and
visibly coming among them ; for who of this audience ever saw him after
his resurrection?—but of his coming among them now in this offer and
means of salvation. And in the same seriBe is the clause, v. 20, to be
understood; and so the 22d verse interpreteth it of the sending of
Christ as the great Prophet, to whom whosoever will not hearken, must
be cut off:—not at the end of the. world, when he shall come as a judge ;
but in the Gospel, which is his ‘voice and which to refuse to hearken
to, is condemnation. Peter’s exhortation, therefore, is to repentance, that
their sins might be blotted out, so that refreshing times might come upon
them, and Christ in the Gospel might be sent among them, according as
Moses had foretold, that he should be the great Instructor of the people.”
Lightfoot Comment, in loc. It is proper, however, here to remark that
dvavras, having raised up, is understood by many commentators, not of
the resurrection, but of the bringing into the world, df Jesus, the Son of
God, and we cannot in truth refuse to acknowledge a high degree of
plausibility in that construction, compared with the use of the term in
other places, though still confident that Lightfoot’s interpretation cannot be
positively shown to be erroneous. If the other sense be admitted to be
the more probable, it merely follows that the language of Peter refers to
the first as well as to the second advent—to the literal as well as the
spiritual—and this may be conceded without abating at all of the force of
our previous reasonings in regard to the true import of the ‘ timeB of res­
titution of all things.’ So long as the philological argument founded upon
the current usage of u^pi, remains unanswered, our main conclusion must
stand unassailed.
-Google
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. G 66
and o f the restitution of all things’ as having already come,
does but echo the general voice of announcement sounded
out by the whole succession of prophets ‘ from the begin­
ning of the world.’ The burden of their oracles is, that the
establishment of his kingdom was the ushering in of an
economy of which the grand character was to be refresh­
ment., restitution, renovation, rectification, resettling, and
that the commencing epoch of this kingdom was to be his
own exaltation at the Father’s right hand, from which point
the destinies of this spiritual empire were to begin to evolve,
and to result in the Anal consummation shadowed forth in
the descent of the New Jerusalem from heaven to earth, be­
yond which revelation makes no disclosures.
. . C H A P TE R X II.
Christ’s “ Delivering up the Kingdom.”
T h e event indicated as the eubject of the present chap­
ter is related to our particular theme only as one depart­
ment of the general scheme of Eschatology, with which the
Resurrection naturally enters into close connexion. We
have determined to make it the topic of some remarks, from
the strong conviction, that the true purport of the passage,
as expressed in the original, has been greatly misconceived,
and a consequent error of signal moment introduced into
the current anticipations of the futurities of Christ’s king­
dom. It is doubtless the prevalent belief, that the apostle’s
language warrants the expectation of some great change
that is eventually to take place in our Saviour’s mediatorial
relations—that there is to be some important surrender of
the official prerogatives with which he was previously in­
vested, and the consequent assumption of some new posi­
Digitized by Google
3 6 6 THE DOCTRINE OP THE RESURRECTION.
tion in the grand economy of which he is ever to be regard­
ed as the great central point. Of such an anticipation we
are wholly unable for ourselves to discover the grounds in
any other portion of the Scriptures of truth, and this fact
of itself, the lack of parallel intimations, if it be a fact,
must be allowed to constitute at least a strong priori pre­
sumption against the soundness of the theory which main­
tains it. For although it is unquestionable that a single
declaration of holy writ, when clearly and satisfactorily
made out, is amply sufficient to establish any doctrine as of
divine authority, yet we believe, as a matter of fact, that it
will almost if not quite invariably be found, that ‘ by the
mouth of two or three witnesses’ all the important aver­
ments of Scripture are authenticated. That the intimation
generally supposed to be conveyed by the passage which we
now have in view is intrinsically of sufficient importance
to require the usual amount of inspired testimony in its be­
half, will undoubtedly, upon very slight reflection, be con­
ceded. It must be admitted as very difficult of concep­
tion, that the Scriptures are elsewhere to be searched in
vain in quest of proof of an oracle of such transcendent mo­
ment, as that which should announce the transfer of the
headship of the mediatorial kingdom, at some future day,
from the Son to the Father. How comes it that when such
full disclosures are given in the Prophets and the Psalms
of the various phases of this glorious kingdom, no intimation
is to be traced in them of such an abdication as is here
supposed to be announced 1 W e are well aware that theo­
logians have framed to themselves certain conceptions of
the plan and the destinies of the scheme of redemption in
which this view of the apostle’s meaning plays a conspicu­
ous part, but we have yet to learn that all such conceptions
are not in fact built upon this single passage, which is
thus made to confirm a doctrine which it is in fact the only
one to affirm; and how far this comes short of involving a
petitio principH, we commend to the consideration of all re­
Digitized by Google
TBK SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 8 67
fleeting minds. If it cannot be shown that this passage
means what it is usually deemed to teach, then the prevalent
tenet for the support of which it is adduced, is deprived of all
solid basis, and must be considered a gratuitous assumption.
Our present purpose therefore is to submit the passage
to a strict critical examination, and to endeavor to elicit
from it its genuine purport. We commence by exhibiting
the text.
1 C o r . XV. 24-28.
O R .
Elra to rt'kof, ira* naça-
d<j»rtjr ßaotieiar v<
j»#«p nar~
çi, oiav xaruQyrjoq nûaav ¿p-
jjjv xai näaar e^ovaiar xai
Bvrapiv •
del yaQ avror ßaoü.eveiv,
&
XQIS ov av navres rovç
¿X& q o v s vno rois noBaçuirov.
'Éoxaroç «yftyôi xarapyrf-
rai o ûâraroç.
Ilarra yàç inhumer vno
rovç nàSaç avrov ' orav de
e*nr[, on narra vnoréraxrai,
Brjkor, on ixroçrov vnoraÇàv-
roç avnp rà narrer.
9Orav 8è vnoraytj eevrqt ra
navra, rare xai avzos 6 viog
vnoraytjasrcu np vnoraÇavri
avrcp rà narra, ira g o ûeoç
rà narra êr nàoir.
E N O . V E R S .
Then cometh the end, when
he shall have delivered up the
kingdom to God, even the Fa­
ther ; when he shall have put
down all rule, and all authority,
and power.
For he must reign, till he
hath put all enemies under his
feet.
The last enemy that shall be
destroyed is death.
For he hath put all things
under his feet. But when he
saith all things are put under
him, it is manifest that he is
excepted which did put all
things under him.
And when all things shall be
subdued unto him, then shall
the Son also be subject unto
him that put all things under
him, that God maybe all in all.
“ Then cometh the end." We have already adduced a vari­
ety of considerations going to show, that the common ideas
suggested by the word ‘end’ in scriptural usage rest upon an
entirely erroneous apprehension of the truth. The true
sense of the term, as derived from ritia, to perfect tofinish,
is much more nearly allied to perfection or consummation
than to termination. A river that sinks away in the sands
Digitized by Google
368 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
and suddenly disappears comes to an ‘end.’ But a river that
merges itself in the waters of the ocean comes to an ‘ end ’
in a very different sense. Yet this last is much nearer the
scriptural import of the word than the former. The chain
of inspired revelation conducts us to a grand consummation
in the universal establishment of Christ’s kingdom on earth
in the New Jerusalem economy, and there leaves us. It
gives us no intimation of any thing like a physical winding
up of the present mundane system. The term ovrrsXtia in
the phrase ovniieia tov cuwros, end o f the world, conveys in­
deed the idea of a close, but it is the close of a dispensation.
Here, however, the original word isnot ovrtiXtia but riios, prop­
erly importing ultimate issue,perfect accomplishment, consum­
mation. The nature of this consummation is not indicated
by the word itself. In the present case, where we read
“ Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the
kingdom,” &c., the ‘delivery ’ is the end ; i. e. the great
order of events implied in this transfer, whatever it may be,
is the ultimate scope, object, esidpurpose to which all the pre­
vious counsels of Heaven, as developed in the course of prov­
idence, tended, thus constituting their end. The drift of all
prophecy is this perfected end of the sublime'career of events
pertaining to the fortunes of the kingdom and resulting in
its complete triumph over all opposing influences, and its
ecumenical prevalence among men on the earth. The apos­
tle therefore is to be understood as saying, that when the
process of resurrection, which he describes, reaches the
point alluded to, then comes the end, the grand consumma­
tion, which God has had all along in view, and which will
realize the burden of those pregnant prophetic announce­
ments that have in all ages assured the faith of the faithful
of the return of a comparatively golden age—of a paradisaic
era—to the world. We may illustrate our idea by supposing
the period of the Christian dispensation to constitute a great
Gospel week, the preceding days of which merge at length
into a glorious sabbatism of unlimited duration. It is this
Digitized by Google
TBE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT.
aabbatism that constitutes the ‘ end ’ of which the apostle
speaks, and which will be seen at once to involve no idea
of chronological termination, and we shall hope to show that it
implies just as little of cessation or change in any of the offi­
cial functions or relations of the exalted King ofthe kingdom.
“ When he shall have delivered up the kingdom.” Upon
the true construction of this clause hinges the genuine
purport of the whole passage. This we shall attempt to
determine, afler first giving what may perhaps be regarded
as the prevailing views of Christendom in respect to the
crisis here announced. We quote from Knapp:
“ From what has been said,” he remarks “ it appears
that the government which Christ as a man administers
in heaven, will continue only while the present consti-
tation of the world lasts. At the end of the world, when
the heavenly state commences, the government which Christ
administers as a man will cease ; so far, at least, as it aims
to promote the holiness and happiness of men ; since those
of our race, who labor for this end, will then have attained
the goal, and will be actually blessed. So Paul says ex­
pressly, 1 Cor. 15. 24-28, in entire accordance with the
universal doctrine of the New Testament respecting the
kingdom of Christ as man. (?) He is speaking of the
kingdom of Jesus, or of his office as Messiah, and refers to
Ps. 110. 1, ‘ Sit on my right hand, until I subject to thee
all thine enemies.’ The phrase, ‘ to sit on the right hand
of the Father,’ he explains by jSaeiltvtiv, and comprehends
under this term all the offices of the Messiah, and the insti­
tutions which he has established for the good of men, i. e.
for their holiness and eternal blessedness. These offices
(his kingdom) will cease at the end of the world, when all
the opposers of the advancement of his kingdom upon
earth, and even Death, the last enemy of his followers, will
be subdued, and when his friends will be introduced by
himself into the eternal blessedness, to which it is his aim to
exalt them. Then will his great plan for the happiness of
Digitized by Google
3 7 0 THE DOCTRINE OF TB S RESURRECTION.
men be completed, and the end of his office as Messiah will
be attained. Thenceforward the Father will no more make
use, as before, of the intervention of the Messiah to govern
and bless men; for now they will be actually blessed.
Christ will then lay down his former charge, and give it
over to the Father, who had intrusted him with it. For we
cannot expect that the preaching of the gospel will be con­
tinued in heaven, and that the other institutions of the
Christian church, which relate only to the present life, will
be found there in the same way as they exist here upon the
earth. In the abodes of the blessed, the Father will himself
reign over the saints with an immediate government, and in
a manner different from the rule which he causes to be ex­
ercised over them through Christ, his ambassador, while
they continue upon the earth.” Knapp’s Theology, A rt.
X. § 98, p. 216.
This is probably the substantial tenet of the Christian
church on this subject, and notwithstanding the author’s
intimation about its accordance with the “ universal doc­
trine of the New Testament respecting Christ’s kingdom as
a man,” we still affirm that it rests solely and exclusively on
the passage before us, and if it can be shown that this is a
sense entirely foreign to the scope of the apostle, the evi­
dence of the doctrine itself at once vanishes out of sight.
But it is our full persuasion that this can be done, and it is
what we shall now attempt; assuming distinctly and une­
quivocally in the outset the position, that the true subject or
nominative of the verb nagada, shall have delivered up, is not
Christ, nor is the kingdom spoken of Christ’s kingdom; at
least, prior to its being delivered up. But before proceed­
ing to the formal establishment of these two points, we shall
adduce an array of passages clearly affirming or irresistibly
implying the perpetuity of Christ’s dominion.
2 Sam. 7. 16, “ Thine house and thy kingdom shall be
established fo r ever before thee: thy throne shall be estab­
lished for ever." This, though originally spoken to David,
yGoogk
T H S SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 7 1
is obviously to be fulfilled in Christ, as we learn from Luke
1. 32, 33, “ He shall be great, and shall be called the Son
of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the
throne of his father David : and he shall reign over the
house of Jacob fo r ever; and o f his kingdom there shall be
no end.” *
Is. 9. 6, 7, “ Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is
given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder; and
his nanpe shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, the mighty
God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. O f the
increase o f his government and peace there shall be no end;
upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order
it and to establish it with judgment and with justice, from
henceforth evenfo r ever.”
Dan. 2. 44, “ And in the days of those kings shall the
God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be de­
stroyed : and the kingdom shall not be left to other people,
but it shall break in pieces, and consume all these king­
doms, and it shall standfo r ever."
■Dan. 7. 14} “ Then was given him dominion, and
glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and lan­
guages, should serve him : his dominion is an everlasting
dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that
which shall not be destroyed.”
Heb. 1.8, “ To the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God,
is fo r ever and ever.”
Rev. 1. 5, 6, “ Unto him that loved us, and washed us
from our sins in his own blood, and hath made us kings and
priests unto God and his Father, to him be glory and do­
minion fo r ever and ever. Amen.” The invocation of per­
petual dominion undoubtedly implies the promise of it.
Rev. 11. 15, “ The kingdoms of this world have become
the kingdoms of our Lord and of his C hrist; and he shall
reign fo r ever and ever.”
Rev. 5. 13, “ Blessing, and honor, and glory, and power,
be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb
yGoogk
372 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
fo r ever and ever.” This passage receives a great accession
of weight in its present relation when viewed in connexion
with the closing chapters of the book, where we learn that
after the judgment by him who sat upon the- great white
throne; when death and hell had delivered up the dead that
were in them, and they were judged every man according to
their works, and death and hell, and whoever was not found
written in the book of life, were cast into the lake of fire,—
after the formation of a new heavens and new earth, and
the descent of the New Jerusalem,—after all this we find
the ‘throne of the Lamb ’ still subsisting, and the river of
the water of life proceeding out from under it. But we
have already seen that this must inevitably be long subse­
quent to the time of the delivering up of the ‘ kingdom,’ of
which Paul here speaks.
Heb 7. 21, “ The Lord sware and will not repent,
Thou art a priest fo r ever after the order of Melcbizedek.”
But Christ’s kingship undoubtedly runs parallel with his
priesthood. The perpetuity of the one supposes that of the
other. He is to ‘ sit a priest upon his throne;’ i. e. com­
bining the sacerdotal and regal dignity, and that forever.
Heb. 1. 2, “ Whom he hath appointed heir o f all
things.” The evidence» from this is inferential, but still
^conclusive. Heirship denotes perpetuity. An estate re­
ceived by inheritance does not revert back to the original
possessor. Christ has received by inheritance, as the Fath­
er’s eldest and only Son, ‘ the first-born of every creature,’
‘ the excellency of dignity and the excellency of power,’ and
of this inherited pre-eminence he can never be conceived as
voluntarily divesting himself, much less as being deprived
of it against his will. Wherefore, as heir of thekingdom,
he holds his prerogative in everlasting fee.
Now in reference to all the above citations we cannot
doubt that the kingdom, of which they assure to Jesus the
ever-during sovereignty, is the mediatorial kingdom. Yet
this, if any, is the very kingdom which Paul is so generally
yGoogk
TU E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 373
understood to assert that Christ is one day to deliver up to
the Father. We are not ignorant, indeed, that this view is
maintained with some kind of salvo by which a certain class
of reserved prerogatives is secured to him, which, as Knapp
says, still leave his glory and majesty unimpaired, notwith­
standing the resignation of the mediatorial sceptre. The
nice distinctions which theologians are here accustomed to
make, in order to show how a kingdom can be abdicated and
: king still retain a kingly character, we must confess our in­
ability to grasp ; and still more our entire failure to discover,
from the general tenor or the particular intimations of holy
writ, any satisfactory grounds on which they rest. As
Christ can be contemplated only in two characters, as God
and God-man, so his kingdom or kingship can be viewed
only in two aspects, as that of God, identical with Jehovah,
and of Messiah. But the kingdom of the Messiah is the me­
diatorial kingdom, and of that alone is the apostle here speak­
ing; and if he delivers up this kingdom, then it cannot be
eternal, as the foregoing extracts unequivocally affirm that
it is. As to two different departments of this kingdom, of
which one is t« be resigned at the end of the world, and
the other retained, we find no more evidence of this than
we do of such an ‘ end of the world’ as the theory supposes.
So far as we are able to compass the scheme of revelation, it
embraces no such crisis as that which has usually been elicited
from the words under consideration, and therefore a super­
structure must be airy that is built upon an airy foundation.
There must surely be a kingdom of the Messiah as long as
there is a Messiah to inherit a kingdom; and when we can
learn from the clear teachings of Scripture that'the Messiah,
as such, is to merge into the Godhead, then we may believe that
his kingdom, as such, is to cease. But we conceive that it will
Tequire a new revelation to instruct us in any such futurity
as the absorption of the distinctive person of the Messiah
to the infinite essence of the Deity, or what Neander terms
17
yGoogk
the “ merging of the mediatorial kingdom into the immedi-
atorial.”
From'this preliminary train of remark we turn to the
more immediate object which we hare in view, viz., the as­
certainment of the true sense of the apostle’s words in re­
gard to the ‘ delivering up of the kingdom.’ In the solution
of the problem involved in the language, we adopt as a cri­
terion the general scope o f inspired prophecy as to the des­
tinies o f the kingdom o f Christ. This is to be gathered
mainly from the predictions of Daniel and the Apocalypse.
From the combined testimony of these oracles we learn that
there is to be a succession of worldly empires, exercising
from age to age a despotic and tyrannous rule over the great
mass of human kind ; till at length, under the sounding of
the seventh trumpet, the spiritual and eternal kingdom of
Jesus supersedes all these monarchies, and assumes to itself
that dominion which they have so disastrously wielded over
the subject nations of the earth. The process by which
this transfer is to be effected is indeed gradual, and may be
considered as going on during the whole period of the prev­
alence of Christianity from its earliest origin, but it is not
fully consummated till the epoch heie alluded to arrives.
Then it is that the ‘ kingdom,’ i. e. the rule, power, sway,
dominion, which has been so long exercised by these various
worldly empires shall be made over to, and merged in, the su­
preme and universal kingdom of Jesus Christ. And this is
precisely the ‘ end ’ which the apostle here says is to ‘ come.’
It is the same result with that which is shadowed out in the
vision of the Great Image in Daniel, that was broken to
pieces, and ground to powder by the stone cut out of the
mountain—which itself grew to a great mountain, and filled
the whole earth. It is no other than that kingdom of Christ
and the saints which displaced and succeeded the kingdoms
of the four Beasts, and which also became universal under
the whole heavens. Such are clearly the announcements
3 7 4 t h e d o c t r i n e o f t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n .
yGoogk
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 375
of the Old Testament prophets; and can we suppose that
Paul, writing under the guidance of the same Spirit, would
announce any thing different ?
Here then we have, as we conceive, the true key to the
explication of his language. The scope of his intimations
is the farthest possible from declaring that Christ is in any
sense, or at any time, to ‘ deliver up ’ his kingdom. How
should he do this, when this very kingdom was given him
as the reward of his humiliation and obedience unto death ?
Is his reward to cease as soon as his work is done? Are
the saints to be crowned with an eternal reward, and the
King of Saints with a temporary one? Shall he cease to
be Lord and King at the very time that every knee begins
to bow to him, and every tongue confess? Surely this is
the most violent of all suppositions. What conclusion, then,
is possible, but that the ‘kingdom ’ here said to be ‘ delivered
up ’— which by the way is more properly rendered ‘ made
over ’—is the usurped kingdom of his enemies, and not his
own ? But upon this view it is clear that the nominative to
the verb nayudoj cannot be Christ, and we proceed to estab­
lish, by philological evidence, the correctness of the inter­
pretation that makes this merely an instance of the common
scriptural idiom in which the verb is used without any person­
al nominative, hut has reference to the purpose o f God, else­
where expressed in his word. If this point can be compe­
tently made out, it will give, as the legitimate result, the fol­
lowing reading of the passage:—“ Then cometh the end
(the grand consummation), when the prophetic announce­
ments of the Scriptures require the delivering up (the mak­
ing over) of all adverse dominion into the hands of God,
or the Godhead (the Father and the Son conjointly), to
whose unrivalled supremacy every thing is to be made finally
subject.” This brings the oracle into parallelism with Rev.
II. 15, “ The kingdoms of this world have become the king­
doms o f our Lord and his Christ.” The reason of the ex­
yGoogk
376 TH E DOCTRINE OF T H E RESURRECTION.
press and prominent mention of the Father in this connex­
ion, will soon be explained.*
The construction we have now suggested obviously de­
pends upon an idiom of speech which it devolves upon us
clearly to illustrate. It is one of far more frequent occur­
rence in the Hebrew of the Old Testament, than ift the
Greek of the New. The rule which embraces it is thus sta­
ted by some philologists : “ Active verbs, especially of the
third person singular (frequently also in the plural), in
many cases assume the signification of the passive, where
no notninative is expressed.” Examples of this usage are
innumerable. The following may serve as specimens.
Gen. 16. 14, “ Wherefore the well was called fwjjj, one
called) Beer-1ahai-roi.”
Ex. 10. 21, “ That there may be darkness over the land
of Egypt, even darkness which may hefe lt ( and one
may fe e l)”
1 Sam. 23. 22, “ For it is told m e (*’b lott, one has told
me) that he dealeth very subtilly.”
Neh. 2. 7, “ If it please the king, let letters be given me
(“
ib Wtfi, let them give me).”
Hos. 10.2, Their heart is divided (pbn, one has divided).”
* I t i s p e r h a p s d e s e r v i n g o f c o n s i d e r a t i o n w h e t h e r t h e i n d i t i n g S p i r i t , in
t h i s c o n n e x i o n , h a d n o t a l a t e n t r e f e r e n c e to I s . 9 . 6 , “ H i s n a m e s h a l l b e
c a l l e d — The mighty God, the everlasting F a t h e r w h i c h i s a w e l l k n o w n
d e s i g n a t i o n o f C h r i s t a s t h e Father of thefuture aget i . e . t h e h e a d o f th e
M e s s i a n i c d i s p e n s a t i o n . W e d o n o t , h o w e v e r , b u i ld o u r i n t e r p r e t a t i o n
u p o n t h i s s e n s e . W e m e r e l y s u g g e s t i t a s w o r t h y o f c o n s i d e r a t i o n . O u r
p r o p o s e d c o n s t r u c t i o n o f t h e p a s s a g e w o u l d u n d o u b t e d l y l e a d u s , o n a
priori g r o u n d s , t o l o o k r a t h e r f o r a s p e c if i c m e n t i o n o f t h e S o n t h a n o f th e
F a t h e r ; b u t w e s h r i n k f r o m forcing a s e n s e u p o n a n y w o r d o f S c r i p t u r e .
u F i t v i a v i ,” i s n o t t h e m o t t o w e w o u l d h a v e to c h a r a c t e r i z e o u r e x p o s i­
t i o n s ; a n d i n t h e p r e s e n t c a s e w e b e li e v e a s u f f i c ie n t r e a s o n m a y b e a s s i g n ­
e d f o r t h e p h r a s e o l o g y w h i c h t h e a p o s t l e e m p l o y s .
Digitized by Google
TH E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 7 7
Job 3. 20, “ Wherefore is light given (in'1
., does one give)
to him that is in misery.”
Job 18. 15, “ Brimstone shall be scattered ( trjV], one
shall scatter) upon his habitation.”
A similar phraseology is common both in the Septua-
gint and the Greek Testament, and in the latter particularly
where the writer introduces quotations from other Scrip­
tures, as will be seen in several of the following instances:
Luke 12. 20, “ Thou fool, this night shall thy soul be
required (ananovoiv, shall they require) of thee.’’
Heb. 1. 7, “ And of the angels he saith (Uyts, i. e. the
Scripture saith, or, it is said), Who maketh his angels spir­
its,” &c.
Heb. 4.4, “ For he spake (el'Qy**, i. e. the Scriptures spake,
or it is spoken) in a certain place.”
Heb. 7.17, “ For he testifieth (paqtvqei, i. e. it is testified)."
1 Cor. 15. 27, “ But when he saith (tiny, i. e. when it is
said by the Scriptures) all things are put under him,” &-c.
The above instances will be sufficient to confirm our
proposed, rendering; “ Then cometh the end, when by the
announced purpose of God in the Scriptures, the Kingdom
or Kingship hitherto usurped by the rulers of this world, is
made over to its rightful Divine Proprietor.” This, we are sat­
isfied, is the true purport ofthe apostle’s language, from whose
intention nothing is farther than to indicate any kind of re­
linquishment on the part of Christ of any form of his regal
prerogative; for this we have seenhe holds by an indefeasi­
ble tenure.
It is moreover indubitable that the sense ascribed to
nayaSC), deliver up, in the established version, is entirely un­
warranted by the current usage of the New Testament wri­
ters. Not a single instance can be adduced where the verb
has the meaning of handing or resigning back, returning,
unless it be John, 19. 30, “He gave up the ghost (naqiSwte to
nrsvpa),’’ and this is by no means decisive, as it may there
be understood in the general sense of making over, transfer-
378 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
ring, which obtains elswhere throughout the whole New
Testament without a single exception. As this is a point
entirely beyond question, we are entitled to give it peculiar
prominence in this discussion. The true interpretation of a
text may often depend upon the precise shade of meaning to
be attached to a word in a particular context, and in determi­
ning this the prevailing usus loquendi must necessarily be our
main guide. If this is departed from, we are at liberty to de­
mand, why and on what authority. In the present case it
does not properly devolve on us to show that nayaSai means
to make over, but on an opponent to show that it meaDS any
thing else. The matter is reduced within a short compass
by the simple requisition to have produced from the New
Testament writers a solitary instance that unequivocally con­
firms any other rendering.
“ When he shall have put down all rule, and all author­
ity, and power.” The verb xaragy^ot, shall have put down,
we here again interpret on the same principle with the fore­
going, as not referring to anypersonal nominative, but to the
general divine purpose as announced in the Scriptures.
Viewed in this light, the clause varies but little in import
from the preceding, for when all opposing rule and authority
is put down, the kingdom becomes of course, or ipso facto,
made over to God. It does not in strictness denote a pro­
cess actually accomplished previous to the delivering over
of the kingdom, but the one proceeds pari passu with the
other. Just as much of dominion as is taken away from the
usurping power, is transferred to him ‘ whose right it is.’
The allusion is obviously to the 110th Psalm, v. 1, “ The Lord
said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make
thine enemies thy footstool.” This passage the apostle has
constantly in view throughout and it forms in fact the true
clue to the entire course of his reasoning. This will be
evident from what follows.
“ For he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his
feet.” The ground ofthis necessity is the express declara­
Digitized by Google
T H E SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 3 7 9
tion quoted above from the inspired Psalmist, and which
must be fulfilled. Christ, according to the oracle, must con­
tinue to occupy the seat assigned him during all the peri­
od in which this process of subjugation is going on ; but
no inference is more unfounded than that when that period
is elapsed he ceases to retain the supremacy with which he
was before invested. This idea is undoubtedly built upon
an apprehended sense ofthe word ‘until,’ which we think may
be shown to be utterly unfounded. We have already given evi­
dence to this effect in relation to the use of the term in Acts
3. 21, “ Until the times of restitution of all things,” and we
now proceed by a further display ofthe usus loquendi to con­
firm our present interpretation. The position which we
shall aim to establish in regard to the use of the word in a
great multitude of instances is, that while it affirms the con­
tinuance of something during a certain specified period, it
does not necessarily deny the continuance of it when the
period is expired; and so conversely, when it denies the
continuance of any thing during a given period it does not
necessarily affirm the continuance of it subsequently to its
close. As the Greek follows the Hebrew usage in this par­
ticular, we begin with illustrations from the latter. The im­
portance of the point in the interpretation of prophecy will
justify a copious list of citations.
Gen. 28. 15, God says to Jacob, “ I will not leave thee,
until I have done that which I have spoken to
thee of.” It surely does not follow that he would leave him
then.
1 Sam. 15. 35, “ Samuel came no more until (is-tug)
the day of his death.” Of course he never came again.
2 Sam. 6. 23, “ Therefore Michal, the daughter of Saul,
had no child unto (tS-fai;) the day of her death.”
Ps .112,8, “ His heart is established, he shall not be afraid,
until) “lost tS-sw?) he see his desire upon his enemies.”
Is. 22. 14, “ Surely this iniquity shall not be purged from
you, till (ts-eic) ye die.”
yGoogk
3 8 0 TH E DOCTRINE OF TH E RESURRECTION.
Is. 42. 4, “ He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till
(■
’«-ecus) he have set judgment in the earth.”
Is. 46. 4, “ Even to (is-IW s) your old age I am he.”
Passing on to the New Testament we have the following:
Mat. 1. 25, “And knew her not, till (ta>t ov) she had
brought forth her first-born son.” This affirms nothing in
relation to the time subsequent.
Mat. 5. 18, “ Till (fuf) heaven and earth pass, one jot or f
one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be ful­
filled.” Does this imply that any part of the law shall fail,
even supposing heaven and earth are to pass away ?
Mat. 28. 20, “ Lo, 1 am with you always, even unto
(teas) the end of the world.” Would he cease to be with
them then ?
Rom. 5. 13, “ Until the law, sin was in the world.”
It surely did not leave the world when the law oame.
1 Tim. 4.13, “ Till (tea?) 1 come, give attendance to
reading.” Paul’s coming would scarcely be considered as a
discharge of Timothy from the duty of reading.
The usage in these cases is certainly beyond question, and
equally so in our opinion is the very important instance pre­
viously alluded to Rev. 20. 5, “ The rest of the dead lived
not until (axgi) the thousand years were finished.” This con­
veys no implication that they did live when that period
was accomplished. Shall we not then consider our in­
terpretation of the present passage as fully established— an
interpretation which maintains the unceasing, uninterrupted
mediatorial reign of Christ?
But to proceed: “ The last enemy that shall be de­
stroyed is death.” How Death is to be destroyed in con­
junction with Hades, has already been considered, and we
doubt not from the connexion, that ‘ Death ’ is here to be
understood in precisely the same sense—not as synonymous
with mortality in the abstract, but with premature mortality.
For as we have already seen that this making over the king­
dom occurs at the commencement of the great sabbatical
yGoogk
THE SCRIPTURAL ARGUMENT. 881
period of the world, during which the successive genera­
tions of men are to continue, we see no possibility of under­
standing it of the actual abolition o f death, especially when
Isaiah, in describing the same period, expressly affirms that
“ the child shall die an hundred years old.” The de­
struction of death therefore is its destruction as an enemy,
as a curse. It is not that men will then cease to die,
and pass into the spiritual world, the ultimate sphere of all
human existence, but death, as the apostle says in this very
context, will then be deprived of his sting, and the grave of
its victory. It will then become to the great mass of men a
mere gentle metamorphosis, or, more properly, a virtual
translation from the mundane to the celestial mansions.
But without attempting the solution of enigmas to which we
may not at present be fully competent, we deem it sufficient
to plant ourselves, in our main result, upon the indubitable
identity of the destruction of Death in the present passage,
and the destruction of Death and Hades in Rev. 20. 14,
and 21. 4. But that event we have shown to be a charac­
teristic feature of the Hew Jerusalem state, announced by
the sounding of the seventh trumpet, and to be continued
through an ¡definite period among men in the flesh; and
consequently the event described by Paul must be referred
to the same era. On any other construction, it is impossible
to harmonize the discrepancies that inevitably arise in the
system of Eschatology.
“ For he hath put all things under his feet.” The
same idiom with that above mentioned is here continued.
The original vnojaft is impersonal, having for its true nomi­
native the expressed purpose or decree of Jehovah, as
embodied in the Scriptures. ‘ He hath put all things ’ is
grammatically tantamount to ‘ all things are put,’ i. e. by
the declared tenor of the divine counsels. The reference is
again to the 110th Psalm.
“ But when he saith all things are put under him.” Still
another instance of the same usage, as already remarked.
17*
Digitized by Google
3 8 2 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
‘ He saith ’ (tiny), is the same as *it is said,’ i. e. by the
Scriptures. If Christ is the nominative to naQabm, we do
not see but Christ must be nominative also to all the
verbs that follow, as there is no note of a change of per­
sons. But this will introduce the utmost confusion into the
train of the argument.
“ It is manifest that he is excepted which did put all
things under him.” This is offered by way of reply to a
tacit objection. If Christ is to be invested with this para­
mount and plenipotentiary dignity, will it not follow that his
supremacy is so transcendent as to eclipse that of the
Father 1 ‘ By no means,’ says the apostle, ‘ for in the na­
ture of the case it must be evident, that he who has thus
decretively subjected all things to the Son must be economi­
cally greater than the Son. He cannot have included him­
self among the things subjected. Then ‘ it is manifest that
he is excepted.’ If we were to suppose that Pharaoh had
announced the determination to put every thing in Egypt into
subjection to Joseph, and to bring about the issue by a gradual
process, would any one infer that Pharaoh had purposed to
subject himself also ? The cases are entirely parallel.
“ And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then
shall the Son also himself be subject unto him (God) that
put all things under him (Christ), that God may be all in
all.” This is a conclusion growing directly out of the pur­
port, as now explained, of the preceding verse. If it be
true that it is the Father who has thus, by his supreme
decree, put all things in subjection to Christ, it is of course
to be presumed that he will still continue to retain pre­
eminence, and that after, just as before, the execution of the
decree, the Son will hold the same rank of economical sub­
jection to the Father. A delegated authority necessarily
implies a supremacy in him who conferred it. This is un­
doubtedly the true force of the original, tote teal, then also,—
i. e. then, just as now—which the rendering of the common
translation entirely fails correctly to represent. Every one
yGoogk
THE SCRIETURAL ARGUMENT. 383
can perceive that the expression—“ Then shall the Son
also himself be subject ”—conveys a wholly different idea
from—“ Then also shall the Son himself be subject.” In
the one case the force of the word ‘ also ’ falls upon ‘ then,’
in the other upon ‘ Son.’ The former we conceive beyond
question to be the genuine sense. The apostle’s words so
far from indicating any change in the official relations of
Christ as Mediator, have it for their express object to affirm
directly the reverse. As Christ, in the great mediatorial
scheme, now holds a place inferior to the Father, so, not­
withstanding all the grandeur and glory that is predicted to
accrue to him from the final subjection of his enemies, he is
still ordained to occupy that subordinate station. His con­
quests and his crowns still leave him second on the throne.
It has indeed been suggested by Storr and others, that
the future vnoxayycrexat, shall be subject, is to be understood
not as a future o f time, but merely as a logical future, de­
noting an inference. In this case the adverbs oxav and tot*
assume another character, as may be seen from the resulting
translation ;—“ Since {oxav), therefore, all things have been
(by the divine decree) put under him, it willfollow (to k ) that
the Son himself is, or is to be, subject to him that put all
things under him, that God may be all in all.” As, however,
the former rendering yields a clear and consistent sense, and
requires no departure from the common acceptation of the
terms, we give it an unhesitating preference.*
* “ As the Father was excepted when all things were put under the
Son, so also shall he be excepted when all things are subdued unto him. It
appears, then, that this passage does not even intimate, that there will ever
be a termination of Christ’s kingdom, or that he will ever deliver up his
kingdom to the Father. The dominion shall indeed be rescued from his
enemies, and restored to the Godhead, but not in any such sense, but that
his dominion is an everlasting dominion and that ofhis kingdom there shall
be no end.” Vanvalkenburg’s Essay on“ the Duration of Christ’s K ing­
dom.” Bibl. Repos. Vol. II. No. IV . Second Series, p. 444.
yGoogk
3 8 4 THE DOCTRINE OF THE RESURRECTION.
The view now presented of the apostle’s tneanin g cer
tainly has the advantage of exhibiting the passage in entire
harmony with the general scope of the prophetic Scriptures
relative to the duration and destinies of our Lord’s medii-
torial kingdom. That that kingdom is again and again de
dared to be eternal, there cannot be a shadow of doubt.
Equally clear, we think, it is that nothing can be fairly elicit­
ed from the text before us implying any kind of surrender
or abdication of that supremacy with which, in the economy
of redemption, he is invested. The simple establishment of
the position that nagadm is not to be referred to Christ as
its nominative, and that the true import of the term is not
‘ delivering up,’ or ‘ delivering back,’ but ‘ making or deliv­
ering over,’ puts at once a new complexion upon the pas- «
sage, and forbids its being brought in support of the doc­
trine for which it is pleaded, viz., that at some grand crisis
of the universe Christ is, in some way, to lay down that
mediatorial office which he assumed for the accomplishment
of an object which is brought to a final completion. W e do
not hesitate, on the other hand, to maintain that no such idea
falls within the compass of revelation. So far as we are
conducted by the light of prophecy into the unbounded
future, we find the mediatorial kingdom still going on; and
although it be true that the actual subjugation of all its
enemies will necessarily present it under somewhat of a dif­
ferent phasis, subsequent to that event, yet it still leaves the
point of the Messiah’s supremacy wholly unaffected ; and the
entire drift of the apostle’s argument in the present context
is to show how that supremacy may consist with the asserted
economical subjection, which necessarily grows out of the
relation subsisting between the Father and the Son in the
polity of the great redemption-scheme. •
It is evident, moreover, that the passage thus explained
contains nothing in derogation of the essential and immuta­
ble Deity of the Son. There is nothing in the writer’s
scope which touches the point of the constitution of the
yGoogk
T U E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T .
Saviour’s person. Whatever that is note, such is itfo r ever
to be, as far as any thing is taught on the subject in the
words under consideration. Not a particle of evidence can
be elicited from the present paragraph that goes in any mea­
sure to vacate the irrefragable testimony drawn from other
sources in support of the sublime truth, that our blessed Lord
unites in himself God and man in one person ; a union in
virtue of which he is to be adored, as well as served, as
‘ King of kings and Lord of lords,’ as 1God over all, blessed
for ever.’
3 8 5
CHAPTER XIII.
Conclusion.
W e have now accomplished the task which, in the out­
set, we had proposed to ourselves. It would be easy, indeed,
to extend the discussion, and to bring our subject into con­
nexion .with the various topics with which it stands related
in the genera] system of revealed truth. But this would
swell our volume to undue dimensions, and we have already
travelled over the ground which we had originally marked
out as the limits of the present treatise.. In the conduct of
the argument it has been our object to put the reader fully
in possession of the grounds on which our conclusions rest.
If these grounds are valid, the conclusions must stand of
course. The point that will probably be regarded as most
liable to exception, is the making our rational deductions
the criterion of truth in regard to the meaning of the
inspired word on a theme of such moment as the mode
of -our future existence. Multitudes of readers who are
ready to admit the force of the objections urged in detail
against the popular views of the doctrine of the resurrec­
tion, will still, doubtless, fail to be convinced by them, under
the prevailing impression that the Divine Omnipotence is fully
yGoogk
3 S 6 T H E D O C T R IN E OF T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
competent to their solution, and that human reason has noth­
ing to do with the subject, except implicitly to believe that
every thing will be accomplished precisely as the letter of the
word declares. We should be sorry to believe that we
cherished any less exalted ideas of the Omnipotence of Je­
hovah than the most devout of our readers; but we may be
permitted to suggest, that the charge of denying or under­
rating the Divine Omnipotence, in its relations to the subject
before us, cannot be fairly sustained without an explicit defi­
nition of the precise effect to which we are conceived to
pronounce Omnipotence incompetent. Here is the real
point of the difficulty. We are at full liberty to demand
what is the exact doctrine to be believed, and the denial of
which involves a virtual denial of Omnipotence in that rela­
tion. In other words, what is the precise thing which Om­
nipotence is to be considered as pledged to perform, in
accomplishing the resurrection of the dead ? Until this is
defined, we see not how our positions are justly open to the
imputation in question. If it is deemed that the Scriptures
unequivocally assert the future resuscitation of the identical
bodies which we lay down at death, then we are certainly
authorized to demand how that identity is to be reconciled
with the admitted fact of a perpetual change in the con­
stituent particles during life, and a complete dissipation of
them after death. If the true doctrine of the resurrection
is the doctrine of the reconstruction of the original fabric
of the body, then indeed the denial of this would be a direct
denial of the Omnipotence of God, which can with infinite
ease restore at once to its integrity any decomposed or dis­
sipated substance in the universe. But this we do not un­
derstand to he the asserted doctrine of the Scriptures. We
have not learned that it is any where held that the tenet of
revelation requires the supposition that all the materials
which may at any time have entered into this composition of
our bodies are to be re-gathered and re-formed into the
future structure. Consequently there can be no reflection
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 387
upon Omnipotence in denying that it accomplishes what it
is not asserted to accomplish.
Again, is it affirmed that the true doctrine on the subject
before us is, that a certain portion only of the material
of the present body—sufficient to denominate it the same—
passes into the future resurrection-body, and thus constitutes
that glorious structure f* On this ground our faculties are
at once confounded and overwhelmed. We would fain
know how much and what part of the old body is necessary
to constitute it the same with the new one, and whether in
making the transition any reference is had to the laws o f
life acting in either ? Has the transfer any relation what­
ever to the vital principle ? When it is said of a seed that
“ God giveth it a body as it pleaseth him,” we at once direct
our thoughts to that law of organical development by which
the vital power of a plant works for itself a new form, without
• A s p e c i m e n o f t h e e x c e e d i n g l y lo o s e a n d f a l l a c i o u s l o g ic w h i c h i s
o f t e n g i v e n f o r t h o n t h e s u b j e c t i s to b e s e e n i n t h e f o l lo w in g e x t r a c t f r o m
D r . N e l s o n ’s p o p u l a r , a n d i n t h e m a i n v a lu a b l e , w o r k o n I n f i d e l i ty .
“ G o d h a s n o t t o ld u s h o w m u c h o f o u r p r e s e n t b o d y g o e s i n t o t h e c o m ­
p o s i t i o n o f t h e n e w , o n t h e m o r n i n g o f t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n . T h e f i g u r e u s e d
a s a n i l l u s t r a t i o n b y t h e i n s p i r e d w r i t e r , t o m a k e h i s i n s t r u c t i o n s p l a i n o n
t h i s s u b j e c t , i s t h e g r a i n w h i c h i s s o w n i n t h e e a r t h , d e c a y s , a n d o u t o f
w h i c h s p r i n g s t h e n e w g r a i n . I t i s p e r h a p s a t w e n t i e t h , o r t h i r t i e t h p a r t
o f a g r a i n o f w h e a t , w h i c h s p r i n g s u p a n d f o r m s a p a r t o f t h e n e w g r a i n ;
t h e r e s t r o t s a n d s t a y s i n t h e g r o u n d . I t i s n o t n e e d e d i n t h e n e w b o d y
w h i c h G o d g i v e s t h e w h e a t , a n d i s n o t c a l l e d f o r t h a g a i n . W h e t h e r i t
w i l l b e a t e n t h , a t w e n t i e t h , o r a n h u n d r e d t h p a r t o f o u r p r e s e n t b o d y ,
w h i c h i s t o e n t e r i n t o t h e f o r m a t i o n o f t h e n e w , G o d h a s n o t c h o s e n t o t e l l
i t s , a n d w e n e e d n o t c a r e , f o r t h e w o r k w i l l b e w e l l d o n e , a n d w e s h a l l
k n o w e n o u g h a f t e r a t i m e . ”
N o w “ w h a t d o e s t h i s a r g u i n g r e p r o v e ? ” T h e r e a l p o i n t t o b e m a d e
o u t i s , t h a t a c e r t a i n p o r t i o n o f t h e f o r m e r s u b s t a n c e , t r a n s f e r r e d t o t h e
l a t t e r , c o n s t i t u t e s t h e r e s u l t i n g b o d y the game w i t h t h e p r e c e d i n g . T h i s
w e o f c o u r s e a d m i t i n t h e c a s e o f t h e s e e d , p r o v i d e d t h e o r g n n i f ic p r i n c i p l e
o p e r a t i n g i n t h e g e r m b e r e c o g n i z e d ; a n d w e a d m i t , t o o , t h a t o n t h i s s u p ­
p o s i t i o n t h e quantity o f t h e m a t t e r t r a n s f e r r e d i s a c i r c u m s t a n c e w h o l l y
i m m a t e r i a l . T h e sameness p r e d i c a t e d o f t h e t w o b o d i e s i s e n t i r e l y d e ­
p e n d e n t o n t h e c o n t i n u o u s a c t i o n o f t h e vital power i n e a c h . B u t t a k e
Digitized by Google
3 8 8 T H E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
any change of its essential identity; for it is in the life that
the identity is seated. But suppose the seed to be entirely
decomposed, germ and all, into the dust of the earth, and a
blade of grass to be subsequently produced by the divine
power, into which some part of that dust is introduced, on
what grounds of logical or philosophical accuracy could we
predicate identity of the former and the latter body ? It is
obvious that Omnipotence is perfectly competent to form
the blade, but the requisition made upon it, in reference to
our present point, is not to accomplish a creation, but to
establish a relation, which is quite a different thing. We
perceive the difficulty in the case supposed, but how is this
difficulty enhanced when we advance another step, and im­
agine the particles ofthe seed, after its decomposition, to find
their way, every one of them, into the structure ofother seeds,
each of which is also destined in its turn to be the subject of
reproduction in a vegetable form. Here is evidently a prob­
lem to be solved, in reference to which an appeal to Omnipo­
tence affords our minds no relief, assuming that each ofthe
other seeds shall be raised and metamorphosed into vegeta­
ble bodies that may even be justly denominated the same.
How is this primary individual seed to be thus reproduced
a w a y t h i s e l e m e n t f r o m t h e s u p p o s i t i o n , a n d t h e w h o l e m a t t e r a s s u m e s a t
o n c e a t o t a l l y d i f f e r e n t a s p e c t . I n t h i s c a s e t h e i n f u s i o n o f a n i n d e t e r m i n ­
a t e p o r t i o n o f t h e o r i g in a l m a t e r i a l does not c o n s t i t u t e i t t h e s a m e b o d y ,
a n d i f a n y o n e a f f ir m s identity o f t h e t w o b o d i e s , h e i s bound to s h o w o n
w h a t p r i n c i p l e h e d o e s i t , a n d h o w m u c h o f t h e f o r m e r i s n e c e s s a r y to
m a k e t h e l a t t e r t h e s a m e w i t h t h e f o r m e r . H o w m u c h o f t h e T a b e r n a c l e
o f M o s e s m u s t h a v e b e e n c o n v e y e d i n t o t h e T e m p l e o f S o l o m o n t o m a k e
t h e t w o s t r u c t u r e s t h e s a m e ? B u t s u p p o s e t h e A r k o f t h e C o v e n a n t to
h a v e b e e n t h e i n w r a p p e d g e r m o f t h e f o r m e r , a n d to h a v e p o s s e s s e d a
p l a s t i c p o w e r o f e l a b o r a t i n g t o i t s e l f a T e m p l e - f a b r i c , a n d t h e r e w o u l d b e
n o r o o m f o r p r o p o s i n g t h is q u e s t io n . W h o e v e r t h i n k s o f a s k i n g h o w m u c h
o f t h e s u b s t a n c e o f t h e c a t e r p i l l a r m u s t n e c e s s a r i l y p a s s i n t o t h e b u t t e r f l y i n
o r d e r to c o n s t i t u t e i t e s s e n t ia l ly t h e same creature ? Y e t w h o w o u l d not
t h i n k o f a s k i n g h o w m u c h o f t h e dust o f t h e c a t e r p i l l a r w o u l d b e n e c e s s a r y
f o r t h e n e w c r e a t i o n o f a b u t t e r f l y , w h i c h s h o u l d b e the same w i t h i t s p r e d e ­
c e s s o r ?
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 389
when it has lost itself—when not a particle of it remains un­
appropriated ?
The application of all this to the resurrection of the hu­
man body is sufficiently obvious. We see from it the precise
point on which the charge of derogation from the Divine Om­
nipotence, brought against our theory, must rest if it rests
any where. It is not the denial of the power of Jehovah to
work any conceivable fact, but the denial of his power to
establish an inconceivable relation. Men may loosely affirm
that they believe a doctrine involving such an incredible as­
sumption, and imagine, at the same time, that they ire hon­
oring the Divine Omnipotence, by ascribing to it a compe­
tency to produce the asserted result, but no sooner is the
truth looked fully in the face than the delusion vanishes at
once. They do not believe it, because they cannot. The
constitution of the human mind utterly forbids it. Can the In­
finite Wisdom regard that as honorary to his attributes, which
involves the necessity of doing the utmost violence to the dic­
tates of at intelligence which he has implanted within us ?
Under these circumstances are there no duties devolving
on the friends of revelation, on the score of vindicating its
doctrines from the charge of being utterly at war with the
clearest dictates of reason and philosophy ? Is all inquiry
imperatively foreclosed as to the intrinsic character of the
facts announced in the inspired page 1 But if permitted to in­
quire, are we not at liberty to conclude ? And if our conclu­
sions are authoritative to our own minds, can we set them
aside when we come to deal with the letter of holy writ ?
Is not the light of human reason as truly kindled by the Spirit
of God as the light of divine revelation? Is there the high­
est criminality in going counter to the one, and none in going
counter to the other ? If so, why ?—on what grounds ?
On the whole, we are unable to perceive that the princi­
ple is not a sound one which makes the ascertained truth of
physical and psychical science the criterion by which to
judge of the import of revealed truth falling within the same
department. If this principle be not admitted, what is the
8 9 0 T H E D O C T R IN E O P T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
alternative'! Does it not follow that we can be more certain
of the meaning of the Spirit as teaching doctrines contrary
to our deductions, than we can of the truth ofthose deductions
themselves? We have endeavored to show, for example,
that the physiological fact of the constant change which our
bodies are undergoing is irreconcilably at war with the tenet
of the resurrection of our bodies. Now of this fact of phys­
iology we do not hesitate to declare ourselves absolutely cer­
tain. Can we, then, be absolutely certain that we have at­
tained the true mind of the Spirit, when we ascribe to it a
sense which virtually nullifies the previous certainty ? This
is a question, and a very important question, which is to be
settled in the matter of biblical interpretation. If the assert­
ed fact and the asserted sense, in the present case, can stand
together without mutual conflict, then our argument is so far
invalid. For ourselves we do not see that they can. If
others do, they will at least lay one mind under obligations
not easily cancelled, by expounding the manner in which the
harmony is to be demonstrated.
It will have been seen that our own exposition of the
Scriptural testimony to the doctrine of the resurrection goes
on the principle of its being so constructed as to yield, with­
out violence, an import accordant with what we have en­
deavored to evince to be the absolute truth on the subject.
We are prepared, indeed, to have our exegesis submitted to
a very rigid ordeal, but we have not been able as yet to hy­
pothecate to ourselves the mode in which the process or the
results are to be set aside. Commencing with the original
term ‘Anastasis,’ wehave aimed toevincethat, though render­
ed into English by resurrection, i. e. rising again, it does not in
this relation strictly imply the resumption o f a decomposed
bodily fabric nor the restoration of a suspended bodily life.*
It is merely a term denoting the entrance upon a new sphere
* T h e e n s u i n g e x t r a c t f r o m t h e a b l e w o r k o f M r . N o b l e {Appeal, p.
6 9 ) , s o o f t e n q u o t e d b e f o r e , p r e s e n t s t h i s a r g u m e n t i n a v e r y s t r o n g a n d
c o n v i n c i n g l i g h t .
“ E v e n s u p p o s i n g t h e p r o p e r i d e a o f t h e o r i g i n a l w o r d t o b e , to rise
Digitized by Google
T H E S CR IP TU R AL A RGU MEN T. 3 9 1
o f existence, which, as we are assured of its reality, so we
may reasonably look for some term to express it. So far, then,
as concerns the leading word by which the doctrine is indi­
cated, it goes decidedly to the support of our grand conclu­
sion; and this is again strongly confirmed by the fact, that
the dominant usage of the New Testament is not “ resurrec­
tion of the body,” but “ resurrection of the dead.” W ith this
ruling sense o f the term we have seen that the various passa­
ges examined in detail in the main easily agree, admitting,
without violence, the construction demanded by the theory.
The truth or the fallacy of the theory becomes, therefore, in
again ; i t w o u l d n o t f o l lo w t h a t h e w h o r i s e s a g a i n e n t e r s a s e c o n d t i m e
i n t o h ia m a t e r i a l b o d y , a n d s o r i s e s a g a i n , a n y m o r e t h a n t h a t h e w h o i s
b&m again e n t e r s a s e c o n d t i m e i n t o h i s m o t h e r ’s w o m b , a n d s o i s b o m
a g a i n . I f to be bom again ( a n d , i n t h e o r i g i n a l , again is here e x p r e s s e d
b y a s e p a r a t e a d v e r b ) , is t o e n t e r i n t o a n e w s t a t e , i n w h i c h t h e m a n
h a s n e v e r b e e n b e f o r e , to rise again m u s t a ls o b e t o e n t e r i n t o a n e w
s t a t e i n w h i c h t h e m a n h a s n e v e r b e e n b e f o r e . T h e p a r t i c l e again, t h e n ,
d o e s n o t , i n t h is c a s e , i m p l y a r e t u r n i n g b a c k t o t h e s a m e s t a t e a s h a s
b e e n p r e v io u s ly e x p e r i e n c e d , b u t a n a d v a n c i n g f o r w a r d t o a n e w s t a t e
h a v i n g a c e r t a i n a n a l o g y to o n e t h a t h a s h a s b e e n p r e v io u s ly e x p e r i e n c e d ;
a n d w e c a n n o t s u p p o s e t h a t t h e r e s u r r e c t i o n is a r e p e t i t i o n o f b o d i ly l if e ,
w i t h o u t c o n c l u d i n g , w i t h N i c o d e m u e , t h a t r e g e n e r a t i o n is a r e p e t i t i o n o f
b o d i ly b i r t h . H o w m u c h is i t t o b e l a m e n t e d t h a t N i c o d e m u s s h o u l d
h a v e s o m a n y d i s c ip l e s ; t h a t m a n y s h o u l d b e s o p r o n e , l i k e h i m , t o t u r n
t h e i r m i n d s f r o m s p i r i t to m a t t e r , a n d c a r n a l i z e t h e i n s t r u c t i o n s o f t h e
L o r d J e s u s C h r i s t ! F o r c e r t a i n l y , i f i t m a y b e s a i d w i t h o u t o f f e n c e ,
t h e i d e a t h a t , i n o r d e r to o u r r i s i n g a g a i n , w e a r e to r e t u r n a g a i n to
t h e b o d y o f f le s h , is t h e e x a c t c o u n t e r p a r t o f t h e n o t i o n , t h a t i n o r d e r t o
o u r b e i n g b o r n a g a i n , w e a r e t o r e t u r n a g a i n t o t h e m o t h e r ’s w o m b .
T h e o n e is j u s t a s g o o d a n i n t e r p r e t a t i o n o f t h e L o r d ’s i n s t r u c t i o n s a s t h e
o t h e r . O u r e x i s t e n c e a s e m b r y o s i n t h e w o m b i s n e c e s s a r y t o p r e p a r e u s
f o r b i r t h i n t o t h e w o r l d ; a n d b i r t h i n t o t h e w o r l d is n e c e s s a r y to p r e p a r e
u s f o r b i r t h i n t o e t e r n i t y ; a n d t o s u p p o s e t h a t t h e s p i r i t a f t e r h a v i n g
d w e l t f o r a g e s i n i t s o w n w o r l d i s to r e t u r n a g a i n to t h e b o d y w h i c h i t
l e f t i n t h is , is j u s t a s c o n s o n a n t w i t h t h e L o r d ’s i n s t r u c t i o n s , a s i t w o u l d
b e to s u p p o s e , t h a t t h e m a n is to b e r e - i n v e s t e d w i t h t h e i n t e g u m e n t s
o f t h e f c e tu s , a n d to r e t u r n t o h i s m o t h e r ’s w o m b , n o t e v e n f o r tB e p u r p o s e
o f b e in g b o m a g a i n , b u t o f l i v i n g t h e lif e o f a f c e tu s f o r e v e r .”
yGoogk
392 T U E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
great measure a question ofpure philology, and by the verdict
which a fair and enlightened criticism renders on the subject
it must stand or fall. That theology should be indifferent to
the issue of this question, we know not how to conceive.
There is indeed one point in our reasonings on which the
evidence is attended with peculiar difficulty, arising from
our inevitable ignorance of the mysterious principle of life.
We have aimed to demonstrate that the resurrection cannot
be viewed apart from the operation of the vital principle—
that our future life is in fact but a continuation of our pres­
ent life, developing itself in a new sphere, and under new
conditions. It would doubtless seem, upon this view, that
as the wicked equally with the righteous possess the princi­
ple of life physically considered, so they, equally with the
righteous, must be the subjects of resurrection, and must en­
ter upon the eternal sphere of existence in spiritual bodies.
How is it then that such a resurrection is not predicated of
them ?—that they are not said to live ?—that on the con­
trary they are, expressly or constructively, said to abide in
death ? As the evidence of the fa ct is decisive, we might
properly content ourselves with this, waiving all attempts at
solution in a matter which might justly be supposed to baffle
our utmost powers of comprehension. But we may venture
to suggest the probability that there is a more intimate rela­
tion between the principle of spiritual and physical life,
when both are rightly understood, than the current phi­
losophy ofthe world has ever imagined. Certain, at any rate,
it is that there is such a thing as spiritual death, independent
of that death which is indicated and expressed by the disso­
lution o f the body, or rather the dissolution o f the soul and
the body. The unregenerate man is morally dead in the
present life, and the mere circumstance of his throwing offthe
mortal investment does not necessarily affect this essential
condition of his being. If he may properly be denominated
dead while living a physical life in the body, it is not easy to
see why the same language may not be employed as charac­
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 3 9 3
teristic of his state when passed beyond the bourne of time,
and made an inhabitant ofthe world unseen. Spiritual life, on
the other hand, must be the converse of this spiritual death,
and the true idea of it cannot be separated from that of love,
jo y, happiness; while its opposite must involve the conception
ofmisery and anguish. “ It is not all of life to live ” becomes,
on this view, something more than a mere poetical senti­
ment ; it conveys a profound philosophical truth, striking
down to the central depth of our being. The Scriptural
idea of life, therefore, in its highest and truest import con­
nects itself directly and indissolubly with the action of that
principle of the Divine which becomes benignly operative in
the work of regeneration; and resurrection is but the consum­
mated sequence of regeneration. The relation, then, of the
inner and essential element of their being to the spiritual
bodies of the wicked in another world, is substantially the
same with the relation ofthat element to their physical bodies
in the present world. Though endowed with an animal life
here on earth, yet they are spiritually dead. So, hereafter,
though possessed of spiritual, in contradistinction from gross
material tenements, yet lacking that interior, divine vitality,
which makes the saints partakers of the life and beatitude of
God himself, they are, by an eminence of infelicity, dead;
and this fact, like many others, rightly appreciated, converts
what is usually termed the figurative diction of the Scrip­
tures into the language of literal verity.
From the previous train of remark it is but a natural
transition to pass to the inference, that the moral character
of the individual may exert a controlling and moulding influ­
ence upon the constitution ofthat future body, through which it
shall manifest itself; and this brings us to a point of our dis­
cussion where the speculative merges into the practical, and
the whole subject rises upon us with an overwhelming bur­
den of interest. Even in our present state—in our gross
corporeal fabrics—we see the most marked effects produced
by the actings of the inward spirit upon the outward organi­
Digitized by Google
3 9 4 T H E D O C T R IN E OF T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
zation. Do we not often in the countenance of one admire
the sweetness of the seraph, and in another shudder at the
rage of a fiend ? What an eloquent impress is stamped upon
the features by the moods ofthe soul! And were the moods,
which are often transient, but permanent—could they con­
tinue in unabated intensity—what a fixed and speaking char­
acter would it impart to the whole outer man !
The relation of the spiritual element in our nature to
the nervous part of our corporeal system, though enveloped
in mystery, is too obvious as a fact to he overlooked in this
connexion. Who is ignorant of the effects of either joy or
grief—of remorse or recovered peace—on that most exquisite
part of the exquisite machinery of our frame ! Go to our
hospitals and insane retreats, where the effects of diseased
mental action are so conspicuous, and see how the nervous
system is all shattered to pieces, and what ineffable distress
is produced by its reaction on the mind ! But turn, on the
other hand, to the effects of high and pure religious enjoy­
ment. Look at the new rejoicing hoper in the mercies of the
Gospel. How is his body, as well as his soul, often strung
up to a buoyancy, a holy exhilaration, a kind of rapturous and
sacred glee, which scarcely permits him to retain his foothold
on the earth 1 This is to be mediately referred to the genial
action of the nervous system, whose mysterious strings dis­
course celestial music, or grate the discords of despair, ac­
cording to the prevailing state of that latent inner power
which plays upon them.
, We see, then, nothing to forbid, but much to favor the
idea, that a good man, whose heart is renewed and sancti­
fied—whose spirit is serene—whose affections are heavenly
-—whose soul is prompted by angelic aspirations—shall, by
the very law of his nature, possess hereafter a body so
related to this blissful state of the inner man, that it shall
necessarily become an inlet to pleasurable sensations ; while,
on the other hand, on the same principle, the case shall be
directly the reverse with those whose characters are the
Digitized by Google
T H E S C R IP T U R A L A R G U M E N T . 3 9 5
reverse. Their bodies may become a perpetual source of
corroding pain and of an anguish that knows no mitigation.
We shrink, of course, from dwelling on this part of our
theme; but entire justice to the subject seems to demand
the intimation of the probability, that the spiritual tene­
ments of wicked men will be moulded by their inward
character, and that a soul rent and torn by the actings of
evil, shall convert into a ministry of woe, and an object of
horror, the corporeal vehicle in which it lives, and through
which it acts. So far as the bare point of existence is con­
cerned, it is clear that the good and the bad stand upon the
same footing; and if the one class emerges into that spirit­
ual state in a glorious and beatified body, and the other with
a body of an opposite nature, we do not see but it must be
the moral character which makes the difference. In this
case it might be difficult to show that there was any intrin­
sic necessity for the local separation of the two classes, pro
vided locality can be affirmed at all of that state. They
certainly are not separated, except by character, in the pre­
sent world; and who shall say that one large ingredient in
the cup of bitterness in another world, may not be the being
doomed to witness, in closest proximity, a bliss which, from
moral incapacity, they are unable to taste 1 Though en­
circled by the subjects and the sources of a felicity which
neither the tongues of mortals nor immortals can adequately
describe, yet they may still be compelled to exclaim, with
Milton’s despairing Spirit, in view of their ‘Paradise Lost,’
—“ Which way I turn is hell; myself am hell!”
And here may we not pause in an attitude of heedful re­
gard to the tones of solemn admonition which are sounded up
from the depths of our subject into the ears of our spirits?
The suggestion certainly comes upon us with a plenitude of
serious interest, that our future condition in the world be­
fore us, depends not so much upon arbitrary allotment as
upon constitutional law. It is not, upon the view which
we have taken, the mere righteous will of Jehovah which
yGoogk
3 9 6 T B E D O C T R IN E O F T H E R E S U R R E C T IO N .
awards the retributions of eternity. These grow necessarily
out of the previous moral attributes of the soul. Destiny is
determined by character, and character is untouched by
death. Be it engraven, then, on the tablets of our hearts,
as ‘ with the pen of a diamond in the rock and lead for ever,’
that by necessary consequence—by immutable law—w e
m u s t b e g o o d —evangelically good—in order to be happy.
We may not—we cannot with impunity—waive the claims
of the Gospel of grace. The sanctions of that claim are
inlaid in the very elemental principles of our nature. We
are brought under an everlasting necessity to be conformed,
in the temper and spirit and ruling love of our minds, to the
inexorable but blessed standard proposed to us in the re­
ligion of Christ. There is here no room to be ‘ in a strait
betwixt two.’ Moral law is just as imperative as physical.
Indeed, they can scarcely be distinguished. Dislocate the
smallest joint in the body, and we writhe in pain till it be
restored. Pain, in such cases, is the very law of our being.
The harmony of the system has been invaded—a solution
of continuity brought about—and the penalty must be paid.
In like manner, violence done to the conscience, which is
of the essence of sin, is a wrenching of the soul into a
moral dislocation. It is a rupture of the banda which keep
the moral fabric in its integrity, and from the consequent
suffering there is no exemption. What matters the question
of outward positive inflictions, when we have wrapped up
within us the elements of unknown sorrows, from which we
can no more escape than from our own consciousness!
“ Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which, according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us
again unto a lively hope, by the ' if .s u r r e c t i o n o f J e s u s
C h r i s t f r o m t h e d e a d , to an inheritance incorruptible,
and undeñled, and that fadeth not away!”
yGoogk
