{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__coxe___friends_in_another_world.pdf","mytitle":"Friends In Another World","mylang":"de"}
,.J
""'
""
~
~
~'
~
~
~
...
CONSIDERATIONS
RESPECTI.IiG
'rUE UECOGNITION OF FRIENDS IN ANOTHER WORLD;
0!\ THE
A~, ~, IRni ED DES CEN T 0F JESUS CII RIST INT0 HELL;
ON
PHRENOLOGY IN CONNEXION WITII TilE SOUL,
AND
UN TilE EXISTENCE OF A SOUL IN BRUTE~.
DY
JOHN REDMAN £ 0XE, M.D.
" La maniere dont Dieu aopere, est cachee dans ses secrets.-II nous est permis de
lcs examiner, tl'cn rechercher les circonstances, de proposer quelques conjectures
sur Ia maniere dont le tout s'est passe. l\Iais il y auroit do Ia tcmeritc de decider
sur unc matiere que Dieu n'a pas jugtl apropos de nous re\·elcr."
CALMET,'SUr lcs Apparitions, &c.
..,
,
PHILADELPHIA:,_
PrefRee .
r
•i~R\GE
NEW YOltK:
D. APPLETON & CO. 200 llROADWAY.
,• 1845.
S. APPLETON, 14S CHESTNUT STREET,
L
Entered accordmg to i!Cl of Con,;rc;:s 1n the ycl.lr 1815, lly JoHN l<l.D"' •N (;,l!!:l'.
M.D. in th(l Clerk'R officP. r-f •.he I>iatril-t Court of the Eo.s,crn District of Pcua
~ylvo.nia.
INTRODUC'~'IO~.
I:r is scarc<'ly necessary to write a Preface in order to ex-
l~lam ~he uaturc ~~ the thre? E:-;says which constitute t.he
followmg pages. ] hey arc m tlH'IIJ~Pives so :-;hort, that a
prefatory outline would nearly equal either of them in extent.
I.shal~ therefore .merely remark, ~hat the ~ubjf'cts are of suffi-
cwnt mt<•rcst to mducc the attentwn of a few leisure moments;
the reflections from which may pos::;ibly be found not to be
altogether unprofitable to the rP<H.ler.
Iu this happy couutry, where nil arc permitted to think for
themselves (that i:o:, if thf'y choos<·), without restriction from
religious or sectarian prf'judiccs, and to commit to the press
their views on auy subject that they may clccm interc:-;ting to
themsclvl's or to others, no apology is necessary from the
writer, though but a layman, fin· v<>nturing on certain topics
of inquiry, which to mnny, will app(•ar altogether thf' property
of the clergy. Such, however, arc not his seutiment:-;. If of
any importance, they arc equally so to the laity as to the cler-
gy: aud if the former would more fi·equently enter on tlw
consideration of congenial subjects, anrl in whir·h all arc
alike concerned, it is probable that mul'h of that thf'ological
enmity of different sects of Chrbtians now prevailing through
the world, might be softened down an1l clmsteued, by di~pers­
ing the dogmas with which every ...:el't ahound:o:, ana which,
(the off.-;priug of theologil'nl and el'cle;;;iastil'al pride, from cvcu
the times of the apostles), have been the chief menus of sepa-
rating the Christiau community, and r-;plittiug it into cliques
and pnrtics, unwarrauted hy Scripture. The laity, unfortu-
nately, at all tim<'S, too ignorant, or too idle, to think seriously
for themsf'lvef-:, han~ been f'ntif'li('d to do that in spiritual,
which they woulcl not do in their tf'mpornl concerns, viz: to
embrace every wild, vng;uc, or enthuf-:ia~til' notion, thnt t~teir
spiritual directors have thought proper to a<lYance. The odmm
thcolooicmn thns fc1stercd iu the breasts of those, who~e pro-
vince i't was to preaeh peace and ~ood will to all, soon af'f'tHncd ·
the spirit of party, nnd pN~r<'utaon an~ death early followf'J
in the train of the predommant doctnncs. Sul'h whok:.:ale
allowance to the l'lcrgy, gave them a supremal'y, that the
lnitY have never been abk to the pre~ent tune, fully to ~hake
ofi: · It is P"rhaps a little modcratcd.-flome is not exactly
iv 1:'\TRODUCTION.
what she was four centuries ago; her p~incipl~'~ remain how-
ever the same, aud opportuuity alone ts wa!ttwg to ret~acc
and renew the barbarities of hf'r ancient lnerarchy. Even
here, in thi~ cnlightf'ned agf' and country, now, we sec Ameri-
cans, professing allegiance to the Unit<'d States, yet fettered
hand and foot to the Papal power! Our Protestant br~thrcn
are, in like manner, though inff'rior in dcgrcf',. t~u.tde mstru-
ments of designing men, in sf'parations and dt.vt~wns of the
various d0nominations, to carry out vif'ws, in wluc.h! as ~erely
laymen, th~c•y have litth', if any intf'rf'st. If pohttcal hberty
requires continual watchfulnf'ss and unrf'mittcd energy to
maintain its standing; not less docs that liberty require it, on
which our cv0rlasting destiny may depend. A~1d this ca~. be
effective only, through the f'twrgy awl df'tcrmmed opposition
of the laity to every cncroacltmenl ~m their rights as church
UH'mbC'rs, whC'thcr in modifications of mere ceremonies, as
entering WC'dgf's of somf' furthf'r innovation, or in principles,
that, flowing from the pulpit, may at lC'ngth involve them in
the vortex, alHl bear them on unconsciously to the precincts
of Rome!
I anticipate a due degree of animadversion on the part of
those from whom I may unfortunatf'ly diiff'r. I have, how-
ever, long since, cca~cd to rf'Ht my absolute fhith on any topic,
religious or otherwise', on the simple affirmation of a h"lllible
fellow creaturf'. Unless his proofs are fully and f:tirly esta-
blished on the Scriptures he professes to unfold, his a5sertions
are but on an equality with those of his opponent,-and arc to
be taken for what a balance in the accounts of eithf'r may ap-
pear to be rca~onablf'. I ask no more for the following pages,
and fohall be perfectly satisfi£'1l with the award of the reader
whether that be favourable to, or opposed to the opinions
herein advocated.
The Titles of the Essays are asfollow:
On the Recognition of Dt"'parted Friends in another State of
Existt•nce: wh0tlter they have cognizance of the Afihirs of
this 'Vorld, and if so, its probable Influence on their Hap-
piness in that :--tate, . . . . . . Page 1.
An Attempt to prove that the Affirmation of the Dee:cent of
Jesus Christ _into IIel.I-as st~tcd in the Apostles' Creed,
~md al"scrtf'd 1~ onf' ?f the ArtiCles of the Episcopal Church,
ts unfounded m Scnpture-and tlwrefore not an Article of
llelief, according to its own Doctrines, . . Page 34.
Hemarks on Phrenolng-y-in conncxion with the Soul: and of
the Exist~nce of a Soul in Brutes, Page 50.
CONSIDERATIONS
On the Recognition if Depm·ted F1·iends in another State
of Existence-and whetlter, in that State, tltey ltave, or
have not, Cognizance of tlte Affairs and T1·ansactions of
this lVorld; together u:itlt tlte probable J,ifluence on tlteir
Ifappiness, should suclt be the Case.
Tms subject is so intimately connected with that of the
state of the soul after death, whether it l.Je in a quiescent or
active state, that it may not be irrelevant to make a few pre·
liminary remarks thereon.
'l'he state of the soul after death, during the intervening pe-
riod of its separation from the body, and that of the so called
general resurrection at the day of final judgment, has not
been the subject of divine re\'clation. It has hence, at all
times, been a fruitful theme of inqniry among the learned,
both laity and clergy, of e\·ery denomination; nor was its
considemtion neglected by philosophers of ancient times, even
anterior to the Christian dispensation. All inve~tigation has,
however, fhilcd to withdmw the veil that is spread between
the living and the dead; all is shrouded in uncertainty; and
each one must be content to rest for its full elucidation on his
own experience, at the close of his earthly pilgrimage!
Such being the case, it may be asked, why then attempt to
unfold a mystery on which God has thought it inexpedient to
enlighten us? The question is probably unanswerable; and
A
2
I shall only say with St. Augustin, as quoted by Calmet,
when treating on the difliculties attendant on the appearance
of angels to mortals, as to the nature of the bodies in which
they were seen; [Enchiridion, ch. 50,] "Quand on formP.
sur tout cela desquisitions, et que chacun prorose ses conjec-
tures, ces recherches servcnt (L exc1·cer utilcmcnt !'esprit,
pourvl't qu'on demeure dans les termcs d'une recherche mo-
deste, et que l'on ne sc flatte pas sans raison de s<;avoir ce que
l'on ne s<;ait pas. Cat· cnfin qu'est-il nece.ssaire d'assurer ou
de nier, ou de definer ces sortes de choscs, qu'on nc pcut as·
surer sans danger, et qu'on peut ignoret· sans pec.he, et sans
aucun inconvenient." "This," says Calmet, "is not to resolve
the difficulty, not· to untie the knot that embarrasses us; but
God has prohibitcu us from knowing more."*
'Vithout further apology, I proceed then to remarh:, that if
the moment of death is not, in f.'1ct, the actual commencement
of a future actit•c state of existence to each individual, and, in
so filr, the actual and immediate call to the judgment scat of
God, going on from the first recorded death (Abel) and
through all past ages, progressing still each day, and thus to
continue until time shall Lc no more; in which respect it may
be viewed as a general, though progressive judgment: if such
be not the fact, then the inquiry remains, as to what becomes
* "It is," says Calmet, preface, p. G, "It is always shameful to de-
ceive oneself, and it is hazardous in religion to believe lightly, or
rashly to deny; voluntarily to remain in doubt, or to continue with·
out reason, in superstition and illusion. It is therefore important to
know how to doubt wisely, and not extend our judgment beyond our
knowledge." This is perfectly just, and should influence all, in me.
taphysieal disquisitions especially, to argue with complacency and
moderation, instead of employing an intemperate and sectarian zeal
to prove that which is often incapable of proof in this world, either by
reason or by Scri1Jture itself, which is too often pressed into the ser·
viee of both parties, without a shadow of foundation on either side of
the disputed point.
3
of the soul, when the link is broken that united it to its mortal
associate?'¥.'
If permitted to form an opinion on a subject so completely
mysterious, (and which must therefore be altogethel' hypothe-
tical) from the few instances of persons recorded in S~":ripture,
as having been raised from the dead, the probability would
seem to be in favour of the sleep or quiescence of the soul,
rather than of its active independent character immediately
after death. If separate or independent, and not in a quies.
cent state, it seems extraordinary that not one of those raised
from death, has.afforded the slightest intimation of what was
exhibited or seen by them, when the soul was soaring at free·
dom, during the interval between that event and its reunion
with its earthly tenement! That such actual separation be-
tween the two does occur, is fully demonstrated by the words
of our Saviour to the penitent thief-" This day thou shalt be
with me in paradise." It is obvious that hi::; body did not
disappear, and of consequence it is to the soul alone that
reference is made, and that it was to be apparently in an ac·
tive state.t On thi::; point the Dible is silent; and as the indi-
vidual did not return to life, fi·om him no information could be
anticipated. Not so, however, with the resuscitated corpse
when thrown into the prophet's grave, ,rho "revived, and
stood upon his feet;" 2 Kings xiii. 21: nor in the case of La·
zarus, afier four days' sepulture, and commencing putrefac-
* " It is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judg-
ment;" Ileb. ix. 27. If not to follow immediately after death, it
might reasonably be expected that St. Paul would give some insight
ns to the period.
t So also l\Ioscs (Ex. xiv. 13) says, "for the Egyptians whom ye
have seen to-day, yc shall sec them again no more for ever." Yct in
verse 30 it is stated, " Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea
shore." The souls, therefore, of the Egyptians, are obviously what
.Moses refers to in the 13th verse.
4
tion: nor in those of the son of the widow of Sarepta, of Ta-
bitha, or the young man resuscitated (if aetually dead) by St.
Paul, or the child restored by Elijah! Now, if the souls of
the above were not quiescent, they npparently must have seen
and heard, during their temporary separation from the body,
in their spiritual state, something* deserving of notice, and of
being described, or at least hinted at, for the edification and
instruction of friends, when reunited to the body and restored
to life, and which it might reasonably be presumed they would
be anxious to communicate to them! Surely the wonders
witnessed, if the soul was free and active, would have been
the subject of conversation, and of deep consideration, far be-
yond any other conceivable topic! Now, Eince nothing of
this kind is noticed, or even hinted at, it would appear to fa-
vour the belief of the temporary rest of the soul; and if so,
the question is settled. But, on the other hand, it may be
asked, why !::hould the soul remain thus inactive and quiescent
(as in the instance of that of Adam) for nea.rly five thousand
years 1 This state of torpidity must resemble a continuous
and tranquil sleep of similar extent, and of which, when
mvuking, he would be altogether unconscious. This pro-
longed repose would appear but that of a moment, and no ap-
parent rea~on can probably be assigned for a slumber thus
unconscious of either good or evil! Does not, indeed, the ap-
pearance of !\loses and Elias, at the transfig11ration of our Sa-
viour, altogPther prohibit such a view of the ease, and nega-
tive entirely the idea of the quiescent state of the soul, and
consequently strengthen the opinion that the moment of death
is, in fact, the instant at which the final judgment of each in-
dividual commences? Whichever side of the question how-
* As St. Paul speaks of being caught up into the third heaven,
2 Cor. xii. 2: -r~i-rcu cu~<tvcu-into paradise, id. v. 4: H> -r~v 71'<~~dJwrov
-whether in the body, or out of the body, he could not tell, but hear-
ing unspeakable words, &c.
5
ever 1s advocated, difficulties present themselves, which can
only be settled by self-experience, at that awful moment!
It may not be inappropriate to advert here to that expression
in the so called Apostles' Creed, "I believe in the resurrection
of the body." This assumed fact of the resurrection of the
identical body, (as most assuredly is the credence of nine-
tenths of all who repent it) is certainly not sustained by what
St. Paul has written on the subject, 1 Cor. 15 ch.-nor by
the Nicene creed, which (as well as every part of the New Tes-
tament) more correctly speaks of the resurrection of the dead.
Now, as this body is uniformly regarded as material and mor-
tal, whilst the soul is affirmed to be spiritual and immortal; it
must necessarily follow, that if the body is identically raised,
and becomes thereby a resident of heaven or hell, as well as
the soul; it must, by its existence throughont eternity, be in-
contestably as immortal as the soul itself! Those who accredit
this, must, we apprehend, give sufficient reasons why St. Paul
says this vile body is changed, that it becomes a glorified, a
spiritual body ;-for, although the peculim· character of this
newly constituted body is left by the Apostle altogether unex-
plained, yet if it be changed, as he affirms it to be, then it
obviously cannot be the same body. Nor will it be found,
that in any particular, St. Paul even remotely sanctions such
an opinion.
I am induced here to notice the elaborate and highly inte-
resting work lately published by the Rev. Dr. G. 13ush, entitled
"Anastasis: or the Doctt·ine of the Resurrection of the Body,
rationally, and scripturally considered." I cannot too highly
express my opinion of this important volume; it so completely
sub\'erts the common belief on the subject of that wonderful
and evcntfitl change in the destiny of crery human being; that
it cannot fi1il of producing conviction in the mind of erery one
\~ho is capable of t·cl1cction; and sooner or Inter must lead to
a chanac or modification of thnt portion of the creed, by which
0
A2
such nn opm1on hns so long been supposed to be justified.
Theology nnd the world-at la1·ge, arc deeply indebted to the
Reverend author of the work, for his patient and pers<'vering
investigation; it is n subject of congratulation that it hns been
rendered of general utility through the medium of the press.'~
*I will take occasion in this note to remark, that amongst the
changes that the above work is calculated to induce, arc those of one
or two of the articles of the Episcopal Cilurc!J-both of which are
prominent in the list-and yet seem wanting in scriptural authority.
It is deserving of consideration in that chureh, whether, inasumeh as
the sixth article contains the foundation of every part of its belief,
whie"l1 establishes the "Holy Scriptures" as its rule of faith,-" So
that whatever is not read therein, nor may be proved t!tc1'cby, is not to
be required of any man that it should be believed," &e.; whether, I
repeat, it ought not therefore to stand foremost on the list? it would
seem to be its most appropriate loeation.-The two articles to which I
above refer, arc the 3d and 4th-the former, whieh I shall more fully
consider at the elose of these observations, adverts to our belief, that
Christ "descended into !tell." The latter affirms, that at his resur-
rection, he "took again his hotly, with flesh, bones, and all things ap-
pertaining to the perfection of man's nature, w!tcrctcit!t he ascended
into heaven, and there sittcth) until he return to judge all men at the
last day.''
Is it really proved from scripture that Christ did actually aseend to
heaven, clothed with flesh, bones: and all things appettaining to the
perfection of man's nature, and that for a period of more than eighteen
hundred years, he has thus been loeatcd in a human form ? It is much
to be questioned, if by the most subtle casuistry, this can be made to
appear! Jesus Christ was once crucified by the Jews. They were
mostly ignorant of the erime that they committed, for Christ himself
says, whilst on the ei'oss, "Father, forgive them, for they know not
what they do." After his death, an honourable burial was permitted
to his eorpse, and, save the wotmd in his side, by a floman suldier,
no mutilation was inflicted on his eorpse. Catholics, more savage
than the Jews, like cannibals, daily devour him alive, and so have done
for many centuries! IIow many millions of times this unholy aet has
been performed, might perhaps, he made with profit the suhjeet of
calculati.on, whieh, though ineavahle of absolute precision, would still
7
In cursorily treating this subject, (so much more fully and
claborntcly consiclt•red in the w'ork alluded to,) I shall venture
to surmise, that the rcfi>rmcrs of our liturgy, pious and excel-
lent as they were, and dcsC'r\'ing of the warmest praise of every
Protc:;tant; in <·stnblishing a set of arti<.:lcs of religion for us,
were yet but imperfectly acquainted with some important
branches of medical and physical science, that if better under-
stood, might greatly have assisted their theological investiga-
tions. Anatomy, Physiology and Chemistry were then in their
infancy; but even of what was l<nown, they appear to have
been very ignorant, if m: may judge of their information from
various parts of their writings. A superior dC'gree of know-
ledge at the present period of' the world, might be appropriately
employed to rectify some of their errors, as they rcctifiC'd many
of the [lomish chu1·ch ;-and our faith, Ly their own showing,
is no more dependant on their opinions, when not in harmony
with scripture, than they themselves judged to be the case with
the fi.tthcrs who preceded them, under similar circumstances;
or we never should have witnessed the glorious influence of the
suffice to show how often they have crucified the Lord of Life, and
thereby put him to open shame. The Jews were satisfied by once de-
priving him of life by a cruel, but not uncommon death-but Roman-
ists devour him alive, flesh, bones and all; they do not sacri)ice him,
but cat him bodily. Doth alike act from ignorance, and may our Sa-
viour pray for these, as he did for the Jews, "Father, forgive them,
for they know not what they do!"
Dut is this body of our Saviour, that is represented as being in
heaven, (with every thing appertaining to lwmcm nature) truly pro\·cd
to be the same which appcnrerl on earth, by any part of scripture, or
is it not rather "a fond thing \'ainly invented, and grounded upon no
warranty of scripture, but rather repugnant to the word of God?"
Although, to be sure, the Papists in number throughout the world,
about two hundred millions, do at least bring him down from heaven,
half that number of times daily, to be craunchcd ali,·e between their
merciless jaws !-Crcdat Judreus!
8
reformation, but shoulu still haYe been "in the gnll of bitter-
ness, and in the bonds of iniquity."
A question occurs here, if the identical body committed to
the grave, is that which arises to judgment, whether it is to be
punished or rewarded, for dceus done at an anterior state of
existence; since it is obvious to every one, that the particles
of matter \rhich composed it in the heyday of youth, \rhen
sins of most kinds more generally prevail, arc not those that
constitute it at the ngc of sixty or seventy.*
*If all the particles of matter that at the different periods of life
have r:onstitutcd a portion of our frame should be raised, (anu we may
ask what greater elaim has the last particle deposited over those which
constituted the first rudiments of the body, though long since removed,
except on the principle that possr.ssion is nine points of the law, I
cannot well perceive, especially as it may be controverted by another,
seniores, priores !) then consider what gigantic bodies must appear !
I have somewhere seen a ealeulation of the amount eaten during the
life time of an individual, estimated by an equivalent of sueh a number
of sheep; which is made to amount, I think, to four thousand. A
goodly amount of mortality to invest the soul! llnt this is only for a
longevity of present times. If we go back to the antediluvians, who
lived ten or twelve times as long; the amount will reach to forty or
fifty thousand! Some, however, have supposed, that big or little,
young or old, all will rise with bodies of about thirty-three years of
apparent age; being that of our Saviour at the period of his death,
and in the perfect forms of men and women. St. Augustin, who knew
as much of this matter as any one, is full authority for this, as well as
for some further information he affords us, viz: that "Erunt autcm
tunc membra freminca; non aceomodata usui veteri, sed decori novo;
quo non allieiatur aspieientis coneupiseentia, qure nulla erit," &c.
"Our doctors say (Sterne's Koran, p. 118,) that the dead shall rise
again with bodies. This notion appears to be an article of faith agreea-
ble rather to the doctrine of a 1\Iahometan priest, than a Christian di-
vine. It would be unphilosophie to suppose, that flesh and blood shall
lose their properties after rcsurrcction."-1\lany anxious inquirers also
seek to know further, whether those parts that arc here deemed orna-
mental, such as the hair of the head, will rise with thP body, inasmucn
as it will be so very long; as well as the nails. St. Augustin comforts.
"'hntever the sins of old age may be, and for which pu-
nishment is justly due, surely the justice of a gracious and
heavenly father, would never condemn the mate1·ials of old age,
that had never committed the sins which had prevailed in youth.
Now, is not perpetual chungc evinced, by the absolute neces-
sity of our dnily food for which we petition "our Father who
is in heaven?" If such were not the fact, what necessity would
there be of this frequent recurrence to food of any kind? and
why would not the same particles of matter fully answer every
intention when we had reached our full complement of growth?
But no! each particle performs its respective duty, and succes-
sively yields its place to a new one, and is thrown off as effete
and useless, if not absolutely injurious to the system of which
it had constituted a part.'if:
them by the assurance that every superfluity will be removed, and
every drficicucy supplied. It is surprising that these minute philoso-
phers did not carry their inquiries into the matter of the dandriff of the
hair, and other sordes of the animal economy, all of which once formed
a part of its substance, and is equally cutitlcd to their respectful con-
sideration as those they have taken pains to look after.
The rib of which Eve was formed has puzzled them very greatly ;
having been first vivified iu Adam, he seems to have a prior claim-
and it became highly important to know to which of the t\\·o it will
appertain in heaven! If Adam, as its first proprietor, demands it as
his property, what becomes of Eve? It is replied, that it was primarily
ordained for Eve, and uot for the pc1fccting of Adam; in whom it was
a mere superfluity, or else its place in him filled up with flesh! In
liltc manner, abortions and monsters, 'tis affirmed, will be rendered
perfect! And now, after all this fanciful and ridiculous speculation of
learned saints and theologians, how will it comport with the direct
affirmation of the resurrection of the identical body that has rotted in
the grave?
* lt appears to me a most extraordinary circumstance that the doc-
trine of the resurrection of the botly, should have ever entered into
the mind of any one who reads the scripture with due attention, and
that it should continue even to this period; when the very next chap-
ter of Genesis to that which describes the creation of man "of the
10
The learned and Re,·ercnd Father Dom. Aug. Calmet, has
left amonrr his writinrrs one entitled "Dissertations sur lcs
0 c' '
Apparitions des Anges, des Demons and des Esprits," &c.
Paris, 1746, 12mo. In the 67th, p. 230, and succeeding chap-
ters, he points out the difficulty of explniuing apparitions on
the hypothesis that souls, angels, &c. arc purely spiritual, and
after giving strong arguments against the materiality of the
soul, in opposition to Locke,-yet he in a measure admits the
possibility (as every one must do) under the power of God.
"A Dieu ne plaise que nous voulions donner des bornes aIa
Toute-Puissance de Dieu,"-although he adds that our mind
sees no proportion between these two things, thought and mat-
ter ;-admitting that the subject is not known to us by revela-
tion; nor is it demonstrated either by the cause or its cffects,-
and he agrees that difficulties environ whichever system is
adopted.
Such is the conclusion that all must arrive at-and that
neither opinion is capable of absolute demonstration, or it
must long since have been finally settled. \Vere it a point of
revelation, then it would be conclusive, and a matter of faith
alone; but as a metaphysical object, it mny admit of specula-
tion, without calling forth the angry feelings of opposing theo-
rists, \vho, without any scruples of Christian charity, condemn
dust of the ground," describes also his corporeal destruction "till
thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken : for dust
thou art and unto dust shalt thou return." Can aught be more explicit-
or can any theologian, even if equalling the most subtle of the school-
men, find here the slightest support for a doctrine so evidently opposed
to scripture and to true philosophy ! When it is said that Adam was
made of the dust of the earth, it is not to be taken in its strict an'd
literal meaning-but that he was formed from those elementary prin-
ciples, of which the universe is constituted, and into which the body
is again resolved after death, through the process of putrefaction;
thereby escaping into the general mass, to aid in the building up of
new forms of matter, animal, vegetable ar.d mineral.
11
one another to anathema, excommunication and death. Ob-
loquy and persecution are not the certain churucteris,tics of
truth; and here it is easily seen that feeble reason can afford
but little help to harmonize or settle, that which God has not
thought fit to reveal to man. The deep mystery of the nature
of the soul cannot be discovered by these contending oppo-
nents; hut after all their vain attempts, must leave it for a
final settlement in anot her world, when, should they meet and
recognise each othet·, it is probable that they may decide it
with more harmony than they ever enjoyed in their sublunary
discussions.'if<
To recur, however, to Calmet, he gives at page 411, et seq.
sundry instances from St. Augustin, from his treatise, "De
Civitate Dei," of persons "renvoyes au monde," and then
proceeds as follows:-
"St. Augustin demande ensuite si les morts ont connois-
sance de ce qui se passe en cette vie? II montre que non:
parceque Dieu <l retire du monde, pur example, Josias (2
Chron. xxxiv. 28) <:l fin qu'il ne fut pus temoin des maux qui
devoicnt arriver asa nation; et que nous disons tousles jours,
qu'un tel est heureux d'etre sorti du monde pour ne pus res-
sentir les maux qui sont arrives asa fumille, ou asa putrie."
It is certain, us experience proves, that much can and has
been said on both sides of the ubuve question, us asked by St.
Augustin. Agreeing with him fully in the negation assumed
by him, I consider it, nevertheless, as incapable of absolute
proof, as I considet· all that has been said or written as to the
nature of the soul itself. Still, I shall venture to make a few
* "Is it not an amazing thing (vide Koran, p. 174, ascribed to
Sterne) that men shall attempt to investigate the mystery of the re·
dcmption, when, at the same time that it is propounded to us as an
article of faith solely, we are told that the very angels have desired
to }HY into it in vain?" Will not this remark as aptly apply to the
never-ending disputes as to the nature and character of the soul?
12
remarks on the subject, since it has a strong bearing on the
views we may entertain as to the felicity which the good may
be presumed to enjoy in a future state!
I must here remark, that although persuaded of the truth of
the opinion given by this great man on the subject under con-
sideration, that it is reported of him, that he " said he believed
some things, because they were absurd and impossible"
(Sterne's Koran, p. 81): and that this is an undoubted trait
in his character, will be best exhibited from his own autho-
rity,"" coupled with that of his attendant presbyters, if, indeed,
a more obnoxious term could not be appropriately applied to
the information to which he has ventured to give publicity.
A curious work printed at Leipsic in 1744, entitled "His-
toria Crypto-Socinismi, Altorfin::e quondam Academi::e infesti,
Arcana," by G. G. Zeltnerus, has a part of it occupied, under
the head of "Supplemcnta et Documenta," and divided into
several chapters, the eighth of which is headed, "Confessio
Fidei Joach.imi Peuschelii," &c., consisting of his ans,vcrs to
twelve questions respecting sundry points of religion. One of
those questions, p. 998, is-" An utraque symbola, Nicenum
et Athnnasii, sncris l:•Jeris in omnibus sint conformia?" The
reply follows, accompanied by notes and references, many in-
teresting, and bearing more or less on different particulars of
those creeds, some not undeserving of attention. The latter
* In his "Sermones ad Fratres in Eremo," is one (at p. 17, Sermo
37th, Paris cd. of 15IG, black letter) in which he says," Ecce ego jam
Episcopus Hipponensis eram, et cum quibusdam sen•is Christi ad
lEthiopiam perrexi, ut eis sanctum Christi Evangelium prredicarem;
et vidcmus ibi multos homines ct mulicrcs, capita non /wbcntcs! sed
oculos grossos jixos in pectore! Cretera membra requalia nobis ha.
bentes." And a few lines further on he adds, "Vidcmus et in infe·
rioribus p:utibus .lEthiopire, homines unum oculum tantum in fronte
habentes." 'Vho can pretend to harbour a doubt in his mind of so
wonderful a fact, when given under the immediate sanction of the
greatest saint in the Romish church!
13
creed has happily been expunged from the Liturgy of the
American Episcopal Church, yet it still deforms that of the
parent church of Englund!!(.
At p. 1032 are the following qucstions :-
"An in Christo Domino nostro jam in statu glori::e, vera sit
humanitus, secundum qunm vcram carnem et snnguinem (rto-
manists are speaking) qure in cwna participnmus, hal;cat!
Item: An non Photininnum argumentum, caro et sanguis reg-
num Dei non possidcbunt. Ergo, quia Christus sit jnm in
regno Dei, cum non h<tbere carnem et sanguinem: sit purum
sophismn, et quid respondendum?"
Peuschclius replies, taking, as his text, v. 12, 13, of 6th
chapter of St. Paul's 2d Epistle to the Corinthinns-" 1\Ieats
for the belly, and the belly for meats; but God shall destroy
both it and them." The respondent lays grent stress on
"God shall destroy both it and them," and tbC'n pertinently
asks, "Quomodo vew hoc convcnit cum co, quod vulgo aiunt.
idem numero corpus cum omnibus suis membris resuncctu-
rum 1 An datm corpus absque ventre?" 'l'his, by the pious
examiners, is called "Inepti::e," because the apostle spe::~l\s nol
alone of the belly, but of its operations on the fuod, which will
-
not take place in another life, &c. The respondent, no way
·>< ln the Analytical Review (London, 1789, 3d Vol. p.2S8) are some
good rcmarlis upon the subject of a reform of the Liturgy, in which
reference is made to the reform of that of the American Episcopal
Church, and at p. 294, that Liturgy, with its re,•ision is briefly no-
ticed, and it is there stated, that "The restoration of the Athana,ian
creed was also proposed to that Convention (that at Delaware in
178G) at the instance of the letter from the English archbishops, but
was rojcctccl. And, indeed, the compliance of the Convention in the
other instances, (respecting the descent of Christ into hell in the
Apostle's creed, &c., uhich had been omitted, but subsequently re·
stored) was the Jlrice to be paid for the consecration of their bishops
in England; but the conditions of the purchase reflect no honour
upon either of the contracting parties!"
ll
14
daunted, proceeds thus; "Vel, an venter, et ere, qunrum re-
ceptaculum est, partes, vclut cor, pulmo, jecur, lien, sto-
machus, &c., non sunt de corporis cssentia, vel eju::; partes
aut essentiales, aut int.egralcs? Imo monstrum potius corporis
humani, ,·el corpu.s phantasticum et marcioniticum, quam vc-
rum corpus censendum, quod ventre caret. Et dcmpto ac
abolito ventre, quid reliquis membris fiet? an et ilia abolebun-
tur? Sic sane persunsum mihi habeo. Aut, si manebunt,
quomodo ilia inter se coh~t·cbunt et jungentur? 1\lirnbilis
sane homo, qui manibus, pcdibus, auribus, oculis, capite, &c.,
pr::cditus, ventre tamen cnrct,"-Much more is argued to
the same effect, with observations on St. Paul's exposition of
the modification of the body in the resnri·cction, not devoid of
intcre$t in considering this important doctrine, which we arc
taught in infancy, and continue up to the latest period of life
to repeat it like parrots, without duly reflecting on its intrinsic
nature.'"'
If those wh~ depart this life may be supposed to have any
further acquaintance with what passes in the world, we should
reasonably imagine, that numerous instances of depravity, to-
gether with the generally nssocinted misery of their immediate
friends and relatives left behind them, being perpetually pre·
sented to their observation, would (if their feelings and affec-
tions at all resemble those they here possessed) inevitably tend
to diminish, if not to extinguish, the felicity that we usually
attach to their heavenly existence! Let each one represent to
himself the parents of a large family (his own for instance),
removed by death, and participating in the blissful enjoyments
* If the resurrection body is a spiritual and glorified one, as St.
Paul affirms, the organs of the material body, as here existing, cannot
come inlo operation, and, consequently, recognition must be founded
on principles of a very different character from those which arc re·
'1uired in this world.
15
of heaven. Imagine, now, those parents looking from their
blest abode, and tracing, day by day, the footsteps of their
beloved off::;pring in the paths of vice, and conscious of their
complete secession from virtne; and assured thereby of not
being able to welcome them, and reunite with them in those
mansions of eternal happiness! Dut could those parents in-
' deed feel happiness, even within the p1·ecincts of paradise?-
Let ench one answer: could auuht but unutteruule anuui:::;h
b 0
be thei1· portion?
Now can we for an instant accredit that the felicity of hea-
ven is subjected to such alloy! an alloy 'incompatible with
every idea the mind can form to itself: it seems impossible,
incongruous, ~md inconsistent with the doctrine taught us by
tllC Scriptures! Either, then, the feelings muf:it differ, and be
entirely changed from those experienced on ~arth; all me-
mory of sublunary things must be obliterated; or all know-
ledge of what is passing upon earth must be precluded. This
last supposition involves the overthrow of eve~y idea of inter-
course with the events of our globe, either of a general or of a
pill'lial nature!
I perceive but one way to reconcile this apparent nnonmly,
and obviate the dilemma which appears to attnch to either side
of the question, or which may afford a probable explanation of
what is in itself so obscure and mysterious.
In the creation of every individual, no doubt exists, that,
whatever be its nature, an immottal*' tenant is also created,
* 'Ve may be here permitted to observe, that, independently of the
will of its Almighty architect, the soul is (necessarily) neither immor-
tal nor eternal. The soul of the embryo or infant in utero, apparently
must, as emanating from God, be on an equality with that of the most
gifted allll accomplished adult; but the organs by which, or through
which its faculties can alone be fully developed, being as yet imper-
fect or unformed, and only reaching perfection after a period of many
years, its faculties can show themselves only in the ratio in which the
IG
pari-passu, to occupy the body whilst vitality exists! God
has, in his wisdom, thought proper to withhold from us all
knowledge of its character and composition; and beyond the
assurnnce of its continued existence we know nothing, when
its C'arthly associate has mouldered into dust, and through the
agency of chemical laws been decomposed into its primiti,·e
elements, and passed into other forms of matter, to subscrve
still further the operations of the animal, vegetable, or mineral
kingdom! Those particles of matter which constituted the
persons of our first parents, have thus continued to float along
the tide of time, and still continue to exist under diversified
forms, claiming thereby affinity to all, yet not admitting of the
absolute control of any! In evidence that the Great Being,
who formed the soul for immortality, can, at his pleasure,
prove that it. is not so, necessarily, our gracious Saviour
,,·arns us "to fear him who can destroy both soul and body
in hell." Whatever the expression may absolutely indicate,
yet being coupled with the body, it would seem to apply to
something of a material character, though it need not be con-
sidered as of any of the elementary matter of our globe; the
destruction of the body, as material, we can comprehend, by
annihilation or otherwise; but what can we conceive of the
de:struction of immateriality?
Be all this as it may, we are led to believe, that the soul,
clothed in a spiritual and glorified body, altogether distinct
from its former associate, is the only part of man that finds a
improvement of the organs takes place. "\Yhen I was a child," says
St. Paul, "I spake as a child, &c., but when I became a man, I put
away childish things." Even our Saviour is said to have "increased
in wisdom and stature," &c. On the same principles we mav rea-
sonably conjecture that the soul of the idiot or of the insane, i~, quo
ad the soul, perfect; but its actions being developed throun-h the me-
dium of imperfect or diseased organization, those actions \~ill deviate
in a similar ratio from the perfect and proper standard.
17
passage to the region ofheavcn! Now, when thus unshackled
by the fetters of mortality, and it returns to its Creator, it
may not unreasonably be concluded, that being no longer con-
trolled by flesh and blood, this divine emanation loses its former
feelings and impressions, arising from its previous necessary
dependence on corporeal organs of sense for all its former in-
tercourse with the material world, but which now no longer
appertain to it in its new and separate state of being!
If the usual means of communication (here ess<>ntial to our
welfare) are cut off, it follows that some new measure must be
provided for its spiritual state, whether that be limited to heaven
or extended to the earth, since that which previously existed,
is now, as though it had never been! The spirits of the just
made perfect, associated together in one blessed community,
and constituting one great and extensive family of love in
heayen,* must feel new impulses and trains of impressions,
enlarged and expanded as the place they inhabit; forming there
a different state of society from that limited conncxion which
bound them on earth !t Their feelings arc no longer earthly.
\Vith this world having no longer any concern, they must have
attained celestial feelings, for how can it be imagined that
* Tl1e views of the society of heaven, as described by Swcdenborg,
although they may be considered as highly fanciful, arc nevertheless
extremely beautiful.
t The extensive circle of each one's connexions and associations in
this world, arc pretty accurately defined by Sterne in the 7th ch. of
Tristram Shandy, when speaking of the "notable good old body of a
midwife"-" who had acquired, in her way, no small drgrec of repu-
tation in the world," he adds" by the word u:-orld, need I in this place
inform your worship that I would be understood to mean no more of
it, than a small circle described upon the circle of the great world, of
four Enrrlish miles diameter, or thereabouts, of which the cottage
where t17e crood old woman li\·ed is supposed to be the centre.'' And
such is the"'magnitude of the 1corld of the greater proportion of ths
human race!
n2
18
earthly cares and thoughts can predominate, when all the ma-
terial organs of the body ccn~cd their functions at the cessa-
tion of vitality, and now are mouldering in the grave 7
ShoulJ these blessed spirits then be permitted to revisit the
earth, their feelings must be of a general, not of a limited or
partial character. ·were it otherwise, and former feelings still
predominate, existence even in heaven would, accordiug to our
present couception, apparently be accompanied with all those
partial attacbments and regards, that constitute on earth, the
great bond of consanguinity, and form the most important
principle of domestic love and f1·iendship! But would not the
happiness of heaven be thereby frustrated 7 \Vould not simi-
lar cliques and coteries of f.'1milics, of friends, nnd family con.
nexions, be equally there constituted under the feelings of
mortality? and would not, tlwrefore, feuds and friendships ne-
cessarily ensue as on earth, to the diminution or to a total ex-
tinction of that celestial affection, which it may be presumed
was the intention of a gracious Being, their common parent, for
the happiness of all? However it may here be requisite to
possess both love and friendship for our immediate families and
relations; a necessity obviously essential to this state of exist-
ence, and therefore so wisely ordained by God himself for
mutual comfort and support amidst the trials of this life; it
seems well calculated to subvert the happiness of heaven!
'Ve arc, therefore, irresistibly led to the conclusion, that a like
necessity no longer existing after death, n new train of feelings
is awakened, under the spiritual influence of the dif.embodicd
being! Partial, parental, filial and consanguineous, are ob.
}iterated with the obliteration of the corporeal organization to
which they \\'ere essential, and yield to the influence of general
love and universal affection. Should we then happily attain
those blessed mansions, is it not both probable and reasonable,
that we shall there, no longer rec..ognisc each other as we do
at present, in the rarious relations of parent, husband, wife or
19
child, or other family 01· civil conncxion? but that we shall all
meet as one great family, in which is lost the memory of those
more limited and circumscribed tics of earthly affection? Has
not our Saviour taught us that in heaven, there is neither mar-
riage nor giving in marriage? and may this not be regarded
justly, as an indirect acknowledgment of the truth of the above
assumed position? Of what utility indeed could marriage be
in heaven? Of' its absolute necessity on earth, no one can
have a doubt, except a Romish Priest r~ Let us for an instant
admit that the feelings and affections of this mortal state are
curried into heaven; and what would be the result? Here,
during the short period of fifty or one hundred years, a pe·
riod less than a speck in the lengthened chain of never ceasing
ages ;-here, even in the Lest regulated and most affectionate
families, how frequent arc the evidences of temporary.forget-
fulness of love and sympathy, in the little bickcrings and dis-
putes on mere trifling subjects of different opinious, imagined
affronts, or pecuniary matters! Ilow would these comport
with the happiness anticipated of a never-ending eternity? But
must not such result from mortal feelings-and what becomes
of heaven?
Repugnant as at first sight such views may prove to mun-
dane ideas, reflection will probnbly reconcile them to the mind,
and convince it that happiness in heaven must pro\'C imper-
fect, if shackled by the memo{y of pa::;t events, and worldly
transactions of persons and things. Family, religious, and
national associations would continue to mainte~in their limited
and sectarian affections anJ hatred, to the exclusion of that
expansi\'c benevolence which kindred spirits can alone enjoy.
*And why? Because he can revel in the delights of concnpiseence,
unshackled by the tics and responsibilities of parental afllnity. See on
the subject of priestly celibacy, a small but excellent tre~tise h_y the
Rio·ht Rev. Diogo Antonio Feijo, of Brazil, "On the r-lccess1ty of
Ab:lishing a Constrained Clerical Celibacy," &c.
20
Is this indeed an inconsistent view of the subject under con-
sideration, when we remember, (what all udmit) that we have
one common origin in Adam; and nrc, therefore, mcrelJ: indi-
vidual, though distant links of one gr<'nt chain proceeding from
him and endina- only with the termination of the human
family! Brethr:n we are in fact, both spiritually and cor-
poreally, and hence the great command, that we should love
each other as ourscl\'es-whieh, although of the utmost diffi-
culty in this li!b, may readily be imagined to be the case in
heaven, if free from the shackles of this mortal state! The
former, constituted by our souls, all alike ernannting from a
benevolent and heavenly parent; the latter, deriving its source
from the eart!tly father of the whole human race. The chain
indeed is rusty, even from its commencement! The fall of
Ada~ the murder of Abel, speedily tarnished its original
lustre, and wars, persecutions, and all the varied ills which
spring from the unrestrained passions of man, have continued
to disfigure it to the present day! \Vhat a most felicitous
progeny in corporeal identity to meet in heaven!
I come then to the conclusion, that by the above, or by some
analogous view, we enn alone, I think, explain, how heavenly
spirits, if permitted to investigate and watch over the affairs of
man, may yet continue happy, and be altogether insensible to
the misery that would otherwise await them, under the influ-
ence of memory. of passed nnq passing e\'ents ! vVhether my
readers shall arri,,e at the same conclusion, I cannot prophesy;
but I will merely notice in addition for their consideration,
that it is perfectly obvious, we all care as little ltcre for our
predecessors of the fourth, fifth and sixth generation, and so
on, counting baek to Adam, as we do for those who are to
succeed us to the end of the world. Beyond the few dear ob-
jects of affection, immediately known to u~, all arc 1·elatively
strangers; and each generation, looking either backwards or
forwards, must have tics of consanguinity equally as powerful
21
as our own; hence, unle~s our recognition, &c. in another world
is general and unconfined, consi"der for a moment what a sin-
gular state of society would be that of heaven! Each genera-
tion looking to two or tht·ee links of immediate connexion only,
we must quickly be thrown into a state of inextricable con-
fusion, to unravel which, the Gordian knot, in comparison,
would be a trifle !'K'
"I may help this confusion by the following statements cut out of
newspapers, and which having a slight connexion with the subject un-
der consideration, will at least amuse, if they do not instruct: of the
calculations as to correctness, I have never undertal{en to go through
them. The writer of one of them signs himself E. J. Pierce.
Poi'ULATION oF TIIF. \VonLn.-According to !\l'Gregor, the popu-
lation of the world is Sl2,5G3,712, which is divided by Bell as follows:
'Vhitcs, 440,000,000
Copper coloured, 15,000,000
1\Iulattons, 230,000,000
Blacks, l 20,000,000
Hassell deemed the world's population to be 03G,4Gl,OOO, possessing
the following religions:·
Christians,
Jews,
Mahometans, -
Brahminists,
Duddists,
All others,
T!te Ch1-islinn World:-
2.32,GOO,OOO
5,000,000
120,105,000
140,000,COO
313,!>77,000
134,4!>0,000
Catholics, 137,000,000
Protestants, G5,000,000
Greek Church, &e., 50,000,000
The population of Europe is estimated by l\lalte Brun at 214,000,000
souls. Asia is put down by Balbi at 413,8-t-1,300.
LIFE AND DEATU.-Thc population of the earth is estimated at one
tltousand 111 illions, and a generation lasts thirty-three years. There-
fore, in thirty-three years tho .t ,000,000,000 must a_ll di~! Co~se­
quently, the number of deaths will be, by appro~Imatwn :~Each
30 Ouo000. each dnv c2 101. each hour, 3,4-1; each mmute,
year, , , , ' J ' • '
f>7 j each second, nearly 1. If, on the other hand, as has been calcu-
22
I miaht here suaaest for consultation on the subject of mu-
o 01:>
tual recognition in another w~rld, "Polwhele's Discourses on
Different Subjects." London, 1788. In his lOth discourse,
after aivina the views of a future state from philosophy and
I:> b
Christianity, he infers the ce1·tainty of mutual recognition,
from a consciousness of our identity; from the solicitude of
the departed for the welfare of survivors, as deduced from La-
lated, the number of births is to that of deaths as twelve to ten, there
will be born each year, 3G,OOO,OOO; each day, 98,8DG; each hour,
4,008; each minute, GS; each second, over 1.
LEARNING.
"One of my g,reat grandfathers was a Marblehead fisherman, and all
my relations are fond of the occupation; we throw out our opinions,
that are little worth, and sometimes draw up from the sea ofliterature
the opinion of some big fish. I do not know the occupations of all my
great grandfathers, and great great grandfathers, and great great great
grandfathers, &c. I must have had a great many of them. Once on
a long voyage I went back to the twentieth generation, and found that
I must have had about 1,058,57G within the last seven centuries, and
agreeably to such data, as Sir Isaac Newton used to ripen his chro-
nological conclusions, the number of my great and great great and
great great great grandfathers, &c., since the creation, (allowing it the
shortest date, that the computations of the most learned divines will
admit,) say 5tl3G years or 58 centuries 3G years, or 175 ages, the whole
number of my great great great grandfathers, must have been
47,890,485,G:12,05D,02G,823,G98,344,GD8,447,1Gl,D88,083,GD7,5G8,237,5G8
or forty-seven thousand eight hundred and nin~ty octillions, four hun-
dred and eighty-five thousand six hundred and fifty-two septillions,
fifty-nine thousand and twenty-six sextillions, eight hundred and
twenty-three thousand six hundred and ninety-eight quintillions, three
hundred and forty-four thousand five hundred and ninety-eight quad-
rillions, four hundred and forty-seven thousand one hundred and sixty-
one trillions, nine hundred and eighty-eight thousand and eighty-five
billions, five hundred and ninety-seven thousand five hundred and sixty·
eight millions, two hundred and thirty-seven thousand five hundred
and sixty-eight great grandfathers-a greater enumeration than wil! be
intelligible to all of the present generation: what trouble there must
have been in the world just to bring in a poor old fisherman's grandson!"
23
zarus and the rich man ;'ll' from the pleasure promised in the
society of A braham nncl the prophets, &c. ; from the declara-
tion of Jesus Christ to the penitent thief; from Christ being
known to the apostles when transfigured ;t and from the im-
plication in St. Paul's declaration, that "they who sleep in
Jesus, God will bring with him." The whole of this discourse
appears, by the arguments employed, to be a mere "petitio
principii"-and all the inferences deduced from mc1·ely mortal
feelings a11d impressions, unsubstantiated by any of the posi-
tions he assnmes, as is well confirmed by the review of the
work in the Anal. Rev. v. 5. 1790, P· G9.
A small treatise appeared in 1838, in this city, entitled,
"The Recognition of Friends in another \Vorld," of which
several editions have since been given to the public. Its in-
tention was to soothe the sorrows of the bereaved, nnd to mul-
tiply the joys of the happy. Its benevolent pmport is unques-
tionable, and it required only the gnrb of certainty, and a solid
foundation, to render it in all respects of the deepest interest.
Its arguments, &c., nrc, however, apparently dcrivecl from
Polwhcle; at least they arc, like his, founded on supposition,
but rendered attractive by an address to the feelings, rather
than to the understanding, in the hour of deep nfiliction. As
the views I hnvc ventured to propose arc in direct opposition
to those contended for in the treatise mentioned, it becomes a
duty to ask those who hn\'C perused it with care, and with
* This beautiful history, if not intended for an allegorical allusion
alone, 8 ecms, indeed, to present such an uncommon and unanticipated
instance of Christian charity and benevolence in a wretched outcast
from heaven, and an inmate of the gulf of endless wo, that it ~·ould
almost tempt us to believe that his faith might ha\'e led to h1s for-
ll'ivcness as was the case with the penitent thief.
"' t 'fhi: could hardly be called a case of re-cognition, since it would
seem they equally lmew both l\Ioses and Elias, whom they never be-
fore had seen.
minds uncontrolled by personal affiiction, what it proves 1
think the reply must be, a1solutely nothing of all it professes!
All th~t is advanced is bare supposition, devoid of "philoso-
phical acumen, or logical precision," as I shall attempt to de-
monstrate.
In the preface we are told, that "the design is to show the
consonance of this doctrine with reason and Scripture," &c.,
so as to enable all "to give a reason of the hope that is in
them.'' Unquestionably this is an important desideratum, but
one, we fear, the treatise in question will never enable us to
perform. It "does not pretend to have brought forwat·d all
the passages of Scripture which throw light upon thi.s subject.
If it has succeeded in making it appem· that the belief of this
doctrine is reasonable [it ought to be, if true!] in itself, and
that the word of God allows us to indulge in it, the end will
be attained."-Most assuredly; but should it be unfounded
and erroneous, ,vhat then?
At p. 14, we are told, that "of the precise nature of the
happiness of the blessed, &c., we know very little; nor, "with
our limited faculties, could we probably comprehend them."
Admitting this to be the case, why thus venture to place
amongst these incomprehensible mysteries of a future state,
the insignificant enjoyment of this mutable existencC', derived
from our personal recognition of friends here, when each day's
experience proves tbat enjoyment to be clouded by family
feuds, by interruption of friendship, and even of relationship,
from motives of self-interest, of politics, and not unfrequently
of religion itself, by which the most bitter enmity is awa·
kened 1 With wh::1t happy associations of past feeliniTs must
not such fr·iends and relatives meet eaeh other in :nother
world, if those feelings are of mortal mould! "\Vhnt a blessing
must their recognition prove, should they chance to meet in
heaven!
P. 15.-" Subjects which Scripture has carefully concealed
25
arc not to be speculated on." 'Vhy, then, has the authm \'Cn-
turcd to indulge in those that form the basis of !tis book?
Surely it will not be maintained that thc!J nrc exempt from
that concealment! The "ble~sedncss of the dead" would
rest on slender grounds, if dependent on a train of fcelinus
• . b
stm!lar to those which nctuate us here below: and the CJUOta-
tion (Luke xx. 3G, 36) intended to afford "the clmre.~t and
most satisjacto7·!1 account of the happiness of the redeemed,"
that they "neither mnrry, nor arc gi,·cn in marriage, but arc
equal to angels," &c., seems to render the affirmed recog-
nition of husband nnd wife extremely problematical, if, indeed,
it be not an explicit denial of it! How would such recognition
accord with those blissful feelings in the case of the loving
partner of sevep successive husbands, or hundreds of a similar
character? To which of them, on meeting that numerous
phalanx, would she fly and cleave to, as bone of her bone? or
would she become the joint stock of seven partners 'I If all
nrc equal to the angels, their thoughts and feelings must ha\'e
changed from mortal to those of an hcav<'nly and angelic
type; and if so, they would be universal ; and divided or par-
tial affections coulu not there predominate.
P. 18.-" Never again will they be <'ailed upon to take a
final leaYc," &c. If they do meet and recognise each other
in the other world, the lcaye here taken ob,·iously cannot be
called final. " \\'e feel that theirs must be indeed a bli~sful
state, who arc conscious that they can uerer be separated
from those they love," &c. Now if this be true, how can "·e
reconcile this feeling of aflection with its direct opposite of in-
tense aflliction, in the inevitable remembrance (for if memory
holds as to the one, so must it likewise to the other) of those
dear nnd beloved friends and relatives, who, being blotted out,
are not to be found within the precincts of hem·cn? Between
them and those there is a great gulf! and if they can cast
f . d " fc fl'"
their view athwart that gulf, and sec those nen s a ar o ,
c
2G
whilst they nre securely placed in ~\braham's bosom, witl~~ss·
ina thus their torments and dcs1)air; is such rccogmtton
0 •
adapted, according to mortal feelings, to heighten the ecstatiC
joys which we calculate on in hcm·en 1 Though accounted
unworthy, yet they must still be remembered, or memory
both of good and bad must be equally oblitcrntcd. It~ then,
it docs exist, \.vith mortal feelings still nrevailing, surely the
comiction of the suflcrings of their friends must continue
throughout eternity, and prove an equal source of unmitigated
grief! But we are told that sighing and sorrow have no place
in heaven, and that all tears shall be wiped from every eye.
These inconsi::;tencies arc not reconciled 1n the treatise ad·
verted to.
P. 21.-" Permitted to enjoy the society of an innumerable
company of angels," &c. vVho are these? Those so created
ab initio, or those so constituted of the spirits of the just made
perfect? In either case, such enjoyment must be geneml, not
particular. Here would have been . most appropriate place
to have fully described, and proved, if possible, the personal
joys of spec~fic relationship from earthly reminiscences and
associations on mutual recognition! And, as Ji.Irther sustained
in p. 22, that "such is the £ocicty, and such the blessedness
of the saints in light." Now we sct·iously ask, where, in all
that is advanced in the treatise, is to be found the slightest
proof, or even a reasonable idea, of the recognition, as such,
of earthly friends and relatiYcs? Happily, our recognition is
not to be limited by the petty, partial notions of present and
terrestrial speculation. vVc shall, no doubt, recognise .Abra·
ham, Adam, and every one of his descendants, whenever met
with, and enjoy the treasures of their information of past
events and times, on which history has been silent or misled
us. \Ve shall, in like manner, recognise our own immediate
friends and relntiYc:S, if there, but not as we now know them!
They, and all the hosts of heaven, will love, and be beloved,
27
us kind1·ed spirits. No longer under the fette1·s of mortality,
all mundane affections, all the narrow, contracteJ feelings of
mere human nature, cease; whilst love ami peace, and uni-
versal happiness, pervade the tmited society of the children of
one great, merciful, and beneficent Parent.
In the second chapter of the work, the recognition of saints
i~ taken up, in which we find it proposed, whether "we shall
recognise .among them those whom we knew and loved on
earth," and "if so, will those feelings of affection which linked
us together here, be renewed and perpetuated in heaven?"
Now this, us the title of the bool{ evinces, constitutes the pith
of the whole inquiry, and the point to Le (not yet) proved, in
order to be enabled to afford a reason of our hope, &c. So
much has already been said in reply to it, that further remark
would have been omitted, but that in answer to the above
question, the author, p. 25, says, "that it is a natural inquiry,
and if logical acr.uracy was aimed at, we should consider sepa-
rately, 1. 'Vhether th~.- ....ouls of the righteous in their disem-
bodied state, and immediately after death, will know each
other, or 2. \Vhcther, this recognition (if it occurs at all)
takes place only after the reunion of the soul and bod!J at the
rcsu n·ection day,-and 3. Whether, if such knowledge exists,
the attachments which Lind us here~ will Le continued here-
after." It may surely, with strict propriety, Lc here demanded,
whether these were not the points that were to be proved! and
why, with three such important links in the chain that was to
lend to the conviction of the certainty of the main object of
inquiry, they arc thus passed over, and not "considered scpa-
1'alely, with all logical accuracy?" It seems indeed a natu-
'ral inquiry, fully arising from the \'cry point that was to be
proyed, and from which tho chief source of consolation was to
be derived by the bereaved, for whom the work was expressly
written. It mav be feared, ho\'.:crcr, that such logical accu-
racv mirrllt not ;cadilv aid the superstructure, but rather tend
..' 0 ..
28
to even undermine the foundation itself, and thereby show its
weakness. It is, in .fhct, admitted, p. :Z6, that "it does not
necessarily follO\v, that the peculiar ties which bind us here,
will be perpetuated hereafter." \Ve erroneously imagined,
that this was the very thing contended for, as the chief source
of comfort to those, whose pilgrimage on earth had been ren-
dered painful by the bereavement of some beloved object! for
if otherwise, the mere recognition would seem to be of a very
secondary consideration; and the proposition abo\'C advanced
appears to put at rest the chief pmport of the whole inYcsti-
gation ;-accordingly, the writer seems entirely undetermined
which side of the question to assume; for he immediately adds,
that "in like manner, if it be proved, that friends will rccog·
nise each other in their glot·ijied bodies, it does not follow as
a consequence, that pure disembodied spirits will possess such
a recognition." l\1ay we be allowed to ask what is that pre-
sumed difference between a disembodied spirit wbieh may not
possess recognition, and that of a glorified body that may, if
proYed? Now all these several and separate propositions, to
be strictly accurate, ought (we nrc told) to be distinctly proved,
and in this, we most heartily agree, for this was the essence of
the whole work. But no; it is shortly after ~:>tated, that "this
would be foreign to our present purpose." Indeed! then I have
mistaken altogether the drift of the author. I considered it of
the first importance that such proof should be afforded of the
position laid down, us being essentially requisite to enable the
reader "to gi\'C a reason for the hope that is in him." It i~
added, however, as a reason for omitting this, that "it would
be ncithe1· intet·esting nor inst1·uctire to our readers to enter
into all the niceties of the argument." This is truly extraor-
dinary! Surely the author must think but lightly of his
rendees, if he deems them incapable of enjoying a metaphysi.
cal tecat on a most intc1·c~ting topic; and that, therefore, they
ought to be satisfied with a simple assertion, a mere ipse dixit;
29
or a "stat pro ratione voluntas!" In fact, it is by this slighted
measure alone, that a rcmlcr could possiuly an·in~ at a just
conclusion, and say with truth, that his reason was fully
satisfied.'·~
In reviewing "the whole subject as one and indivisible, and
in attempting to show that departed spirits, whether in the body,
or out of the body, will know each other, and that the pure and
holy affections of love and friendship which subsist now, will
subsist for ever," l feel constrained to say, that assertions are
mistaken for proof, and weak analogies for direct truths. To
confirm this, I shall merely take notice of the chain, by which
the whole is linked togcthct·, by pointing to the words through
which the conncxion may be considered as maintained.
P. 27.-"This doctrine appears to be perfectly consonant to
reason, for unless," &c.
P. 28.-" The veracity of Him who cannot lie, seems to
stand pledged."
P. 28, ;.!9.-" Surely it will give us more exalted views,"-
" but to know this, it seems necessary"-" and if 1cc arc per-
mitted to know auy of the_snints in light, we see (\'crily, through
a glass, darkly,) no reason why we may not !mow them all."
"\Ve may reasonably suppose lhnt," "it must certainly be,"-
" This could not be unless there was a mutual recognition,"
&c. "It -is therefore in acrordance with the soundest prin-
ciples of reason to suppose," &c.-together with much of the
:::;ame character.
Now, in all these gratuitous suppositions, not a shadow of
proof appears, such as the reader had been led to imag~nc
would be presented to his eager expectations; aud from whtch
"The reader is rcqucstrd to turn to the words of the Rev. John
Ne\vton, at page 27 uf the treatise under considcrati~n, as introduced
from Hannah l\lorc-and judge how fiu they arc applicable to the budy
as here existing, and as in its afllrmcd resurrection identically!
c2
30
he had plca,;cd himself to he qualifted to gi\·e a satisfactory
reason for his hope in the premises.
At p. 30.-At last comes the great stumbling hlocl< to all
the forcrroin(T plcasinrT nntici1)atious of heavenly recognition!
0 0 0
"But one considerable objection to this doctrine." Ycs truly-
fatal to it; and it would he no ohjcctionl if, as a matter of
faith, it could he shown to he scriptural cloctl'ine, and not the
pleasing fiction of imperfect reason. The ohjcction stated, is
"the consciousness that some of our relations and friends being
absent, must be in a state of suffering and woe." Surely such
consciousness would be (not mc1·cly "at first sight" as is stated,
hut in ]JC1'pCtUO) "an insupcrah)c chstacle to the persuasion that
the blessed will recognise each other after death." Now, how
is this most important part of the suhject under consideration
disposed of? Not by solid proof from revelation, hy which
the pro o!' con might he substantiaiiy settled; hut hy a sophis-
tical proposition, which may possihly be regarded as praying
more against than for it. "A moment's reflection will con-
t•ince us that this objection, if it luwe any weight, (has it
none?) will apply with equal force to our knowing, as we ccr-
tainl!J must know, that any patt of the human family is con-
demned to eternal punishment," &c. Qucrc? docs the \·vritcr
suppose that such knowledge on the part of celestial beings
will tend to diminish their nflliction on hehalf of their ou:n
unfortunate relatives?* \Yc then ha\'e gi\·cn tousastatement
~'With how much comparative in~ifferencc do we read in the daily
papers, of massacres-of death from poison-assassination-from fires,
from accidents by steam or crushing by rail-road cars, &c., so long as
they do not personally aflect us or our ncar relations! A sln~dder, a
moment of mental sympathy, and for the most part, all is forgotten!
Nay, how quickly are our dearest and nearest friends consio·ncd to
oblivion, when the first burst of aflliction has passed hy, after., seeing
their remains deposited in the tQJnb. Surely, with such apathy here,
recognition in another world, can1 to the majority of the human race,
be a matter of but trifling consideration!
31
of the "great day of final account," in which "we shall all
behold a lasting separation made between the ri(Thteous and the
wicked," and "yet it cannot be supposed, that
0
the condemna-
tion of the latter, will in the least degree, (alas! for recog-
nition and reminiscence!) disturb the felicity of the former!"
"Such a supposition would be irreconcilable with the perfec-
tion of the heavenly bliss," &c. No doubt it would-and this
leads us cheerfully to adopt the views suggested, of the total
absence of recognition conformably to om eartltly conceptions
of friendship and affection, and that in heaven, heavenly feel-
ings alone cxist.'X<
The train of suppositions are thus continued at p. 31, et
seq.-
" "rc cannot for a moment tllinlc." "And why may it not
be the same." "If requisite for," &c. "''Te may humbly
presume," &c. "The probability is," &c. ""rc may easily
conceive, that it will add much to the happiness of the blessed,
to meet many of their friends in heaven; whilst the 'l'rflcction
that some whom they lo\'ecl on enrth, are not there, u·illnot
be permitted to mar their felicity," &c. &c.
Here, then, we find the Gordian knot completely cut
"'The reader is here rcfcrrcu to a short rc\·icw of a Sermon by J. J.
Rye, A. 13., in the Analyt. Review, 1i!l:2-vol. ii, p. 1%-cntitled
'' Personal n.cmcmbrnncc amongst the Joys of the other "\Vorld," &c.
"The consolatory doctrine of this disconrs~ is treated l>y the prcocher
in a popular way, more adapted perhaps to impress the imagination
with pleasing ideas, than to com·ey entire conviction to the under-
standinrr. At least we must think, that his argument rccei\·cs little
additio;al force, from the reference which he makes to Homer's ac-
count of the iuterdew between Acltillcs and Patroclus in the shades'
Those who wish to sec the question more fully discussed, may con~ult
Dr. Price's excellent dissertation upon the subject."
It is with regret I state that I havo never been able to meet ~··ith
Dr. Price's disscrtatiou, and of course cannot gi,·c any of the news
a!:f.)rdcJ by him.
32
through, by the force of theolog:ical acumen! uud hasten to
bring our remarks to a conclusiuu.
If the object in question is pro\·ed by the work we have thus
considered, benevolcut us it undoubtedly is intended to be, \YC
must confess that we arc altogether ignornni of the nature of
proof! The exposition given, is certainly not warranted by
any clear and undisputed text of Scripture, and must be
vie\ved us a mere nd captandum appeal to the mi::;crablc finite
and contracted feelings of imperfect human nature! The al-
leged probabilities from Scripture arc mere suppositions-
calling up Abraham from the cave of Ephron; of David and
his child by Dnthshebu, &c., do not surely amount to proof;
nay, they are badly employed for the purpose intended; and
when, in chapter 4, \YC arc told that "the doctrine is further
pr01:ed from the :\few Testament," in vain do we look for it,
or recognise such proof, by the reference to St. Paul, 1 Cor.
xiii. 12; to the transfiguration; to the tweh·c apostles sitting
upon tweh-c thrones, &c. ; or from the penitent thief, aided,
as is imagined, by sundry commentators. " Is there any
thing fanciful, it is asked, in certain proposed persons who
had met on earth, recognising each other in heaven?" No,
assuredly. But it is to be remembered, that this is not the
great design that \Yas to Le proved; but to substantiate the
recognition of friends and 1·elatives as such here below, in
the kingdom of hcm·en! It is u subject that is not established
by rcYel:ltion, and must, consequently, Le snstnincd by suppo-
sition, whichsoever side of the argument may be advocated,
and thnt adhered to that may appear most reasonable; and
although as a m<'rcly metaphysical proposition, it may be al-
lowed to interest those who arc attached to such speculations,
it does not seem calculated to prove of u beneficial tende11 cy,
in cithct' it8 churncter or bearing. It may tend, for a. short
time, to assuage the grief of the mourner; but at a pcl'iod of
33
calmer and more tranquillized feeling, we cannot doubt that
far greater comfort may Le obtained by a careful perusal of
numerous passages of sacred writ, than by yielding to the
pleasing rcrcrics of this and other works of a like dcscrip·
tion.
ON 'I'HE DESCENT
Of Jesus Cltr·ist into ]Jell-as an Ar·ticle of Beli~f of the
Pr·otestant Episcopal Chtwclt-1citlt an Attcm:pt to sl10w
that it cannot be proved fr·orn tlte Sacred Scr·iptur·es.
HAVING, in a preceding part of the remarks here presented
to the public, pointed to two or three of the Articles of the
Episcopal church, which appear to need some modification, I
then mentioned my intention of more fully .entering on the
consideration of that, which refers to the descent of Jesus
Christ into hell as being proved from Scripture, and consti·
tuting, on that score, an item in the Apostles' creed. I feel
much diffidence in approaching a subject held so sacred by
the church; and, but for my firm belief of its error, and of its
conveying a doctrine that is not warranted by Scripture, I
should have shrunk from the attempt, although it would have
been utterly out of my power, in repeating that portion of the
creed, to have given to any inquirer a reason for the fuith in
which I thus asserted my belief.
In considering this subject, the first step essential seems to
be that of ascertaining the authenticity of the so called Apos-
tles' creed; and here we at once stumble upon a heap of un·
certainties as to its real author, or authors, however great may
be its intrinsic merits, and its standing in the church, as may
be seen under the article Creed, in Buck's Theological Dic·
tionary. It is not my intention, however, to confine myself
35
to his concise remarks, but I shall derive my observations
from a distant period. Although the authorities on which l
might draw, are numerous, I shall limit myself to one alone,
who appears to luwe consulted all previous and contemporary
writers in the formation of the work he himself has left us.
It is entitled, "I-lermanni "'itsii Exercitationes sacrm in Sym-
bolum quod Apostolorum dicitur," &c. The edition I have is
the 3d. Llto. Amst. lG97: the 1st edition was printed in1681.
Of its estimation, a judgment may be formed from what \Val-
chius says of it, viz.-" cum ob egregium rerum arlparatum ;
tum ob solidnm illarum et perspicunm expo:sitionem merito
laudnntnr," &c. Dibl. Theol. Select. V. I, p. aog.
After adYerting to authors before him, \Vitsius proceeds to
tell us, that the Romish church is so confident of its being the
production of the apostles, that the calling this in ()Uestion is
deemed the height of temerity; although the doctors of that
church cannot determine precisely at what time it was ac-
tually framed. Some assert, that it is not the production of
one alone to whom the task was allotted, but that each apostle
affurdccl a portion ; the creed being thns constituted of twelve
articles, and receiving the npprobntion of the collected council.
The individual portion of each is then given from Baronius,
"lnudata D. Augustini auetoritate, qui de Tempore, Serm.
CXY. sic sc1·ipsisse perhibetur."
"Petrus dixit: Credo in Damn Patrem, Omnipotentem.
Johannes dixit: Crcatorem Cedi et Terrre.
Jacobus dixit: Credo et in Jesum Christum, filium ejus uni·
cum, Dominum nostrum.
Andreas dixit : Qui conceptus est de Spiritu suncto, nutus ex
l\Jnria Yirgine.
Philippus ait: Passus sub Pontio Pilato, crucifixus, mortuus,
ct sepultus. . . . ,
Thomas uit: Descendit ad Inferos, tcrtm cite resurrex1t a
mortuis.
.'
36
Bartlwlomaus dixit: Ascendit ad Ca:::los, scdct ad dcxtram
Dei Patris omnipotcntis.
J.l[attlueus dixit: lndc venturus est judicare viyos ct mor·
tuos.
Jacobus Alpltai : Credo ct in Spiritum Sanctum, Sanctum
Ecclcsiam Catholicnm.
Simon Zelotes: Sanctorum Communioncm, Rcmissionem
Peccatorum.
Judas Jacobi : Ca1·nis rcsurrectioncm.
lllattltias complcvit: Vitam reternam. Amen.""
All this, \Vitsius tells us, is attempted to be proved from the
fathers and from reason, by the inscription, and from the col-
lation of the words of the creed: the arguments by which the
adherents of the opinion sustain it arc stated, but arc deemed
unsatisfactory, and arc regarded by \~Titsius as false, or at least
uncertain, as he very conclusively shows. He adds, more·
over, that in the early state of Christianity, no other creed is
to be found, but that which Christ delivers, Matt. xxviii. 19-
• "Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them," &c.;
and to this alone the ancient fathers often appealed.t By 1he
springing up of heresies from time to time, the church was
* This formula may likewise be found, with some slight \'ariations,
in many other writers.
t Sixtus Sinensis.-At p. 42, Bibliothec:t Sancta, Leyd. 1592, F.,
speaking of the" Symbolum Apostolorum," says that Erasmus, in his
paraphrase of Matthew, declares his ignorance as to the apostles
having framed it. All the orthodox fathers declare that they did;
and Rnfinus is quoted on the subject. It is stated that this joint pro·
duction of the apostles was indited by them whilst the cloven tongues
were resting on them, as the foundation of their future preaching, in
order to preclude any variation by others of what they had learned
from Jesus Christ; that by their united conference, each composed
his part, under the influence of the Holy Spirit. St. An<Tustin's sen·
timents are then given on the matter, and the symbof, as detailed
above.
37
unable to retain its original simplicity; whence it happened,
that to the above plain command various additions were con-
joined, instances of w·hich nrc adduced; amongst which, is
that which constitutes the object of t!Jis essay. "Constat ar-
ticulum de Dcscensu arl lnje1·os in m~ltis Symboli cditionibus
non comparuisse. Ipse Rufinus in cxpositionc Symboli, cap.
20, testatur suo tempore eum in Symbolo Ecclcsiw Romnnre
ct Orientalium Ecclesiarum defuisse. Esse nutem cum ex
Symbolo Athnnnsii in symbolum npostolorum intrusum, ab
hominibus qui non animaclvcrtcrunt in eodem Symbolo dcside-
rari artieulos mortis ct scpulturre," &c. .1'\ot was the term of
"Catholic" known in the time of the apostles, nor even to Ru-
finus 300 years after. "Uncle concludirnus, non esse !Joe
symbolum unills auctoris, vel unius Concilii; sed labcntibus
seculis, vat·ia occusionc, avariis, multis uccessionibus locuplc-
tntum: exstnntibus tnmen veteris fundamcnti, cui reliqua su-
per redificata sunt, indiciis."
\Vitsius, though thus opposing its presumed origin from the
apostles, speaks of it as being of ltigh authority, thouglt not of
the highest, which the Romish church attaciK·s to it; and he
blames that church for employing it " pro formula quadam
orntionis." Three distinct formulm exist, viz: "Dccnlogus,
Oratio Dominica, ct Symbolum. In Decalogo Deus loquitur
Hominibus. Jn Oratione, Ilomo loquitur Deo. In Symbolo,
Homo loquitur et Deo, et Ilominibus. Uti Oratio distinctn est
a Lege: ita et Syrnbolum distinctissimum est ab Orntione."
Having concluded the inquiry of its origin, "'itsius proceeds
to consider its indiviuunl parts, in the order in wltich they ap-
pear in the creed; and at p. 318, we have his observations on
the subject, "de descensu Christi ad lnfcros, which he denies
to be found in any part of Scripture. "Dicitur (says he)
quidcm dcscendisse, dicitur in infe1·is fuisse, sed ~tn j~nctis
verbis ut descendisse ad injeros prrcdicctur, nulh lcgtmus.
He refers again to the fact, that in almost all the ancient
D
38
creeds, this article is wanting. The most ancient of those in
which it is found, is the particular or private creed of Atha·
nnsius, if indeed it be his, of which doubts exist, for Vossius
shows, that "ante annum scxcentcsimum symholum illud ,·el
omnino non fuissc, vel saltern noll fi1issc in ccclcsia notum."
Moreover, those creeds that !tad the article of the descent into
hell, !tad not that of his bm·ial, and the reverse; Loth being
subsequently but erroneously joined together. At the time of
Rufinus, "ipsa Ecclcsin Romana emt contcnta mcminisse so·
lius sepultm·m;" and Vossius states, that "0ricntnles per de-
sccnsum Christi nd infcros, primitus intcllexisse quod occiden-
tales ,·ocnrent sepulturarn." Erasmus thought the junction of
the two was made by Thomas Aquinns, \Vho lived about An.
1~50; but \iVitsius says he finds it in Socrates, lib. 2. (5th
century.)
He soon afterwards says, that although it is true, that nei-
ther in Scripture, nor in nncicnt creeds, the article of the de-
scent of Christ into hell is vcrbnlly found, it is, nevertheless,
"a nobis pie creditur ct nsseritur, modo senso commodo ;" and
that, in its investigntion, we should care less what some an-
cients understood of the words, than what is to be regarded as
congruous to the faith, nnd to Scripture phrnscology- and
then proceeds to consider the unity of the Hebrew word
SnEoL, with the Greek word Ades, as denoting "Scpul-
chrum, vel stntum quorumcunque hominum in morte"-
all tending to prove that the affirmed descent of Christ into
hell is incorrect; and he judiciously adds, "Cui usui illa
animre Christi ad Tartarum profectio ?" He finnlly notices
nil the places in Scripture wherein the Greek· and Hebrew
words, uJ''Il5 and shcol, nre employed, and clcmonstmtcs clear-
ly, that they cannot with nny propriety be forced into the
construction thnt is put upon them by the article of the creed
which he is considering.
·what is above reported from "\Vit.sius, is, I think, sufficient
to decide the point at issue; yet, inasmuch as we arc told in
39
the articles of the church, that the descent of Christ into hell is
"to be tltorougltly received and believed," as it "ma!J be
proved b!J most certain warrants of hol!J Scripture," I con-
sider it requires further proof of its being entirely erroneous;
and indeed, the circumstance of permission being granted to
modify the phrase by using "the place of departed spirits" for
that of hell, shows the necessity of revision, and of a more
explicit explanation; since onr children arc taught in thecate-
chism, from their childhood, that doctrine in its natural accep-
tation ; and with few exceptions, carry to their grave, their firm
belief in the positive descent of their Saviour into the infernal
region. Now it surely is of the utmost importance that nothing
contradictory or doubtful should find a place in our esteemed
Liturgy, or which may be made in any way subservient to in-
fidelity; if, therefore, any apparent difliculty can be softened
down or removed, is it not imperative to attempt it 1 As the
Nicene creed docs not assert the doctrine under consideration,
why need it be retained in the Apostle's creed '! All may yield a
ready belief in the former, who may yet conscientiously differ
from the latter. It was undoubtedly a happy improvf'rncnt in
the formation of a Litmgy for the American Episcopal Church,
that its framers had the resolution to entirely rescind that
most obnoxious Athanasian creed, by which the parent church
of England is still deformed, although strongly urged to retain
it by the English prelates; and it is a source of deep regret
that our clergy did not equally withstand their ill-directed zeal,
in insisting on the retention of the unscriptmal article we arc
now considering, and making that a proviso for the conse-
cration of our bishops!
Althouah the substitute allmvcd for the term lLell, renders a
:::>
meanincr less obnoxious, yet we arc not e11lightcned in any dc-
OTCC a:to where "the place of departed spirits" is, and why
0 ' •
they arc doomed there to remain until the final judgment. If
1 · ·t t dc...tl1
1-oth rrood and bad, do indeed have such a
t IC spu·1 s a u , u I':'
40
hnbitation, of unknown and undefined limitation, arc we to
presume them to be commingled together in one common re-
ceptacle? Now; although we may not maintain precisely the
doctrine of purgatory, little diilerencc can be drawn between
the churches of Englnnd and Rome in this particular, beyond
the power of the latter, by masses and absolutions, &c., to re-
move a soul from this temporary abode.
But if we bring ourselves to belie,·e that in the sacred volume
we can find a snnction for this especial article of our creed;
we are yet unahle to perceive, that, whether rending hell, or
place of departed spirits, such words will reach the Saviour's
intentions, when he said to the penitent thief, "this day thou
shalt be with me in paradise," implying, to our imperfect com-
prehension, something very different from that of the preced-
ing terms, if, as we are told, they have the same intrinsic
meaning.
By paradise is meant, conformably to the lexicons, the third
heaven, the dwelling of God, of the holy angels, and of the
spirits of the just. · Now, if it was to this place that the spirit
of the thief accompanied out· Saviour, the term of hell, in its
common acceptation, is highly exceptionable; and yet it un·
questionably is received in that acceptation, by a larg(~ majority
of those who read or repeat the Apostle's creed. The use of
the term hell, is even defended by some of our cicrgy, precisely
on the ground, that it is the scriptural expression of the doc·
trine de~igned to be taught in it, and therefore they are dis-
satisfied with the alternntive expression, and coincide fully with
Bishop Pearson and others, who entertain no doubt of the
actual and positive descent of Jesus Christ into hell.*
Some writers on the subject usc the term hades, (xJ'r,~) and
*Highly as all true and orthodox Churchmen are bound to venerate
the lawn of Episcopacy, it by no mean;; follows that they are equally
bound, without conviction, to" pin their faith" on the sleeve of every
individual whom it may ehance to adorn! at least in the United States.
41
hell is certainly one of its meanings, as the lexicons teach us.
Thus, says one of them, it is,
1. The invisible abode of the dead. ~. Ilcll,-thc place of
torment into which the fallen angels \Vere cast,-and where
the wicked are punished after death. 3. The grave, perhaps
death personified. 4. A state of abasement or misery in this
life. But ud'r,~ is not the word that is used by our Saviour in
St. Luke; it is Ev TfAJ 7f'ct.g"J'wrfAJ.
Besides the above meanings of the word ud'r.~, there is one
that is the absolute reverse of hell, viz: Heaven itself. Co-
lomesius, a presbyter of the English Church, and librarian of
the Lambeth Library, in one of his writings entitled XEI~r;AIOG,
(Literaria) P· 302, 4to. Uamb. ed. 1709, has a short chapter,
headed "AJ'r,~ pro ca:lo apud veteres."
"Vox "J'r;t; generalis est, cum ad locum tormentorum, tum ad
locum quictis. Hinc non modo pro infcris, verum etiam pro cado
quandoque usurpatur-author innominatus apud Suidum, 7f'ct.G""ct.
ct.Vct.'j/"17, To It; r-tr;v ct.yct.Oo lt; EV "(}'~ EG"'E SOGt OGf-<.E nov Toi~ Y.."-~ K.ct.Y..o 1~ K.ct.Y..toV.
Sic Josephuset post eum Thcodorctus, ct.d't(A) omnibus hominibus
tribuunt, impiis quidcm G"""oT1wugo1 1 piis vcro (tfAJTEtvov. Adh::ec
asserit Hugo Brugthonus, in S. Scriptur::o conccntu ab Isaaco
Gerlio latine verso, in multis vetustissimis codicibus mms. orn-
tionem Dominicam in lwnc modum invcniri, 7f'ct.ug n~e:~v o EV
ct.d'17• Vctcrcs quoque 1\Iacedones or<~tionem bane nusquam
aliter prccntos fuisse."
I find the above statement of Colomesius as to the use of
the word ct.d'r,t; for heaven, confirmed in an old Grreco-Latin
Lexicon, (1538) in which it is stated, that "ct.d'r.t; l\Iaccdonum
Dialccto, ~~ct.vot;." If then hades implies both heaven and hell,
surely, in the case of our Saviour, it ought to be employed in
its best sicrnification, especially since St. Luke particularly
b
states that it was to paradise the thief was to accompany him.
lie says not a word about ct.d'r.t;-nnd hence, I think the pro-
priety of making some change in the obnoxious term in tho
D2
42
creed must be obvious to every one -since, whether the creed
' . '
was framed by the apostles, or by others subsequent to them,
it is certain tbat the words spol\cn by the great heat! of the
church have been changed, if St. Luke is to be rcgardcJ as
authority in the case. Now the apocalyptic injunction and
anathema arc precise and unqualified as to adding or dimin-
ishing aught of the sacred writings!
The words employed by Jesus Christ not being in English,
but in Greek or Ilebrcw (most probably the latter, as being a
Jew by birth; the exclamation "Eli, Eli, lama sabacthani,
either in Ilcbrcw or Syriac, being taken from the 22d psalm;
his preaching no doubt to the Jews in their native language,
with other analogous circumstances); it appears necessary in
this investigation to refer to the particular idiom, that we may
the more correctly estimate the precise meaning, and thereby
vindicate, or uproot the English word that we have adopted in
the creed, and which has been familiar from early infancy.
We might indeed rest here, and confine the inquiry altogether
to the word paradise, as employed by St. Luke; nevertheless,
since that Evangelist makes use of two different words in the
same chapter (:23d) to express the same mode of our Saviour's
death, it would appear corred to inquire further as to that
which is the more immediate object of research, remarking
that when an!J word has a variety of meanings,* considerable
judgment is required on the part of a translator, in adopting
that meaning which is most conformable to the object had in
view by the original. St. Luke speaks of the malefactors, in
the chapter referred to, as being crucified (Er:rTuvg>c.~~uv) with our
*The word bon in French, which at first sight appears to be so sim-
ple, nevertheless, to our surprise, on consulting the "Nouveau Dic-
tionnaire de l'Aca.demie Fran~oisc, Paris ed. Ji18-will present to us
no less than seventy-four different significations in its employment!
Surely the translator of any work into another language, ought to be
well acquainted with both, and with all their idiomatic capabilities!
43
Saviour; )'f't, only six verses further on, they are said to be
hanged, (Y..gE,u~7"0HTC•JV)-and the Greek expresses it thus dif-
ferently. Are we, therefore, to suppose them literally hanged
and not crucified, or the reverse, as fancy may dictate, without
reference to the rcsprctive variations of meaning in the words?
It is probable that both alike signify to suspend; and that
although by hanging, crucifixion is inJircctly meant, yet that
crucifixion cannot, by any mcaus, convey the act of hanging
in its common acceptation. But in the expression of our Saviour
to the thief, no such ambiguity exists; a single word is alone
presented to us, that is, paradise, not hell, in any shape or con-
struction; and we cannot comprehend its introduction into our
translation, without entering more fully on the subject, which
will amply fortify us in the persuasion that the word hell, (un-
doubtedly understood by the majority in its most obnoxious
sense,) ought to be rPplaccd by some othct· better calculated to
convey the true and intrinsic meaning of the text. Even
hades, being general in its signifiCation, as embracing both
heaven and hell, will scarcely supply its place ;-paradise alone
seems to be the most appropriate, especially as it is that used
by the apostle.
AJ'r.~, as employed by St. Peter (Acts ii.) is in out' tl'ansla-
tion, lwll, and infemus in the Latin. Dut as we bclie\·c some
other of its numerous idiom::; might be hcre mol'c appropri-
ately made usc of, \\'C shall not be deterred from the re-
search, although in opposition to the high authority of Bishop
Pearson and others; \\' ho, though able and IC'arncd theologians,
arc crrtainly not infhlliblc, eithrr in their Yiews or explanations
of differrnt parts of the apostolic creed.
St. Pete!' in his remarks (Acts ii. :<!i, :H,) refers to the* lOth
Psalm-it is ncccssal'y, tltel'efol'c, fot' us to follow in his foot-
steps. The Greek word a.J'r.~ in the Acts, ,,·ill be found to be
"Sixteenth in our English transla.tion, but fifteenth in the Latin
Vulgate! \\·hence this variation?
41
in the Hebrew ~l~u·(shcol)-nnu we must consequently seck for
its sianificntion and synonymcs ns beino- the Hebrew rcprcscn-
tatio~ of the Greek Latin and Eno·lish ;crm rcsr)cctively made
' 0
use of.
Leio-h in his "Critica Sacra" p. 2:38, Lond. 1672, tells us
that she~l responds to the Grcel~ ot.J'n~, by which it is invariably
expressed in the Septuagint, except 2 Sam. 22, 6, where it is
translated Ouvu.To~ in Greek, and lnfcrnus in the Latin. Sheol,
he adds, is used in Scripture in four distinct senses.
1. Metaphorically, for hell-That is, for deep plunging into
extreme sorrow, misery, and danger. Ps. lxxxvi. 13.
2. For the local place of hell, propcrly-Prov. xv. 11.
3. For thegmvc-natural nnd common toall-Prov. xxx.16.
4. For the lower, deep, and remote parts of the earth, with-
out relation to the place of punishment.-Ps. cxxxix. 8. To
these, he adds,
5. For the common place or state of the dead. Ps. xxx. 3,
and many other references. So aJ';,~ is taken 1 Cor. xv. 55,
Gen. xxxvii. 35. Sheol significth any devouring gulf or pit,
swallowing up the dead, as Numb. xvi. 33 ;-anti he remarks,
that sheol is here badly interpreted in the vulgate by infernus.
Gussctius, in his "Commentarii Ling. Hcbraic::P," fol.
1702, p. 81:.!, very nearly agrees with the above; and all that
is said conspires to prove, that hell, in our common acceptation,
is not the appropriate signification. A~~~~~o~ and 7Emu, are
more frequently the representative appellations of that place of
torment.
It would seem then, from all here stated, that our Saviour in
. his reply to the thief, could have had no intention of conveying
- an idea of his own descent into hell, and for the especial pur·
pose that :'carson and others have assigned to him. IIad such
been the case, may it not be pr<'sumed that his language
would ha,·e been different, less obscmc, and liable to no mis-
interpretation?
45
Other meanings of oul' vernacular term hell, mdy be curso-
rily adverted to in conncxion with GtJ'n~, from Leigh, in the most
of which he is sustained by Gusselius, and by Parkhurst, who
refers to him with great respect.
Leigh informs us, that "d.J'n~, inreri-according to Bcllar-
mine always signifies hell, the grave never; but learned Came-
ron observes that it never, but in one place of scripture, sig-
nifieth hell, but constantly either the grave, or the state and
condition of a man deceased. Yatnblus and others, on Acts
ii. say that a.J'n~ and Tartnrus, 'non recte conrunduntur. Nam
<1-J'n~ not pertinet ad D~monia, sed tantum ad homines mor-
tuos, bonos malosque, et quidem duntaxet medio tempore inter
mortem et resurrectionem. 'l'artara autem Grrccorum ex-
ernplo, Petrus dixit earn rcgionem in qua impuri spiritus ad
tempus judicii, velut captivi, nssevcrantur." Grotius, in Luc.
s, 31.
"Ad'r,~ est locus visilms nostris subtractus, et de c01·pore qui-
dem cum accipit11r, scpulchrum in quo est corpus sine animo:
de animo rero, totarn illam rC'gionl'tn in qua est animus sine
corpore significat. Itaque ruit Dines quidcm EY ud'n; sed fuit
n ud', etiam Lazarus, distcrminatis ud'11 regionibus. Nam et
Paracli:;us et Gehcnna, sive, ut loqucbnntur Gr::cci, Elysii et
Tartarn sunt o ad',." Grot. in Luc. IG, 23.
The word ud'r.~, as some ha\'e remarked, signifies three
thinas in the New Testament.
1~ The sepulchre, Acts ii. 27, for,first, Peter makes an op-
position between the gra1•e into which David \VUS shut up, and
the hell out of which Christ \\'a" delivered; \'. 29, 31. Se-
condly, PctCI" saith, expressly, that the words n~ust be t~ndcr­
stood of the resurrection of Christ; v. 3. Tlnrdly, tlus ap·
peareth by Paul's citing of it; /~.cts xiii. ;3.1, ~;j. F_ourth~IJ,
·t · d ·<l Ps xri 1·) by n•:ulY Poptsh wntcrs, tn-
1 IS so cxpoun f , • • • -, • • •
I l fY1-o=> Il numC'rous rercrenccs are
jerno, id est sfJHI c 1rn. u-..J ere
made in proof, from the Old and New Testaments, ending
46
with Rev. xx. I3, I4. "Death and ud'r,1; nre cast into the
lake of fire." Now we cannot say hell is cast into hell, but
the grave into hell.
2. It signifieth the place of torment; Luke xvi. 23.
3. It is taken for the Devil himself; 1\Iatt. x\·i. IS-and so
it is taken sometimes amongst prof<me authors. Both the
Septuagint in the Old Testament, and the apostle in the New;
Acts ii. :!7; I Cor. xv. 55; do use thA Greek word ud''li!;, and
the Latin interpreter the word infernns or inferi, and the
English the word !tell, for that which in the Hebrew text is
named slteol. The king's translators of the Bible do render
the word sheol, in the Old Testament, usually !tell; Deut.
xxxii. 22; Ps. ix. I7; lxxxvi. 13. Yet in divers places they
call it the pit; Job xvii. I6; and in sundry places, the grave;
and it cannot otherwise be well rendered, as Gen. xxxvii. 35;
xlii. 38; I Kings ii. 6; Ps. xlix. I5; vi. 5; Isaiah xxxviii.
18. All learned Hebrecians, know that slteol is more proper
for grave than hell; and that the Hebrews have no word pro-
per for hell, as we take hell; but either they use,figw·atively,
sheol, or more certainly Topheth or Gehinnom. For sheol is
in no place so necessarily to be taken for hell, but that it may
also Le taken for the grave. But although that Hebrew word
prope1·ly signify a 1·eceptucle of the bodies after death, yet,
when mention is of the wicked, by consequence it may signify
hell, as day signifieth light; the night, darkness; fire, heat;
peace, prosperity. Again, sbeol signifieth a place which is
dark and obscure, where nothing can be seen; such as the
grave or pit is, in which the dead is laid; which, therefore, of
Job x. 21, 22, is called the land of darki~ess. The Latin
word injernus signifieth, generally, n. low place: ud'r,~, lilw·
wise, they translate in most places hell; yet in one place,
I Cor. xv. 5.5, the grare.
"Sheol, a ,·erLo shaal, quod petere et postulare significat,
quod sepulchmm omnes mortales quasi hiantis oris voraao
0
47
petit; undo et insatinbile dictum; Prov. xx. 20; xxx. 16 :~·
vel, quod omnes mortalitatis ratione eo feruntur, quasi ad ter·
minum quem petunt: vel, quod qui in sepulehris conduntur, a
viventihus pctuntur et dcsiderantur."-Amesius.
"AJ'r,~, ab )JJ'~<~, vel potius ab u priv. ct vcrbo ,J'm, ct dicitur
pet· sync:Presin pro u,J'r,t;, sine luce domus.- \Tirg. Latini
Theologi infernmn, ;:( situ vocnnt, et irifcros, qu~ vox, si nb
inferendo dicta est, tam sepulch1·um quam Gf'hcnnam dcnotare
potest. Ut cnim in bane anima?, ita in illud corpora infe-
runtur."-Amama Antibarb. Bib!. lib. :3. Prolani Ycro au-
tares orcwn nominare solcnt. \Vc, in English, call it hrll (n~
some say), from the Old Saxon or German word helle; in
which tongues, originally, bell significth deep; lch is low;
and so it meancth a low or deep place, and agrees \\'ith the
Hebrew sheol, whieh is said, Deut. xxxii. 20, Job ii. 8, to be
low and deep. Usher says (answer to Jesuits' challenge)
Yerstcgnn's derivation is the most probable, from being hilled
over, that is, hidden or covered. For in the Old German
tongue, from whence our English was cxtrnctccl, hil signifieth
to hide: and in this country (England), with them that retain
the ancient language which their forefathers brought with
• them, to hill the head, is as much as to coz·cr the head: so
that, in the original proprietie ol the word, our hell doth ex·
nctly ans,ver to the Greek, ttJ'11,, which dcnotcth a place un-
seen."
Consult, also, Cocccius' "Commcnt. in Job," fol. 1644, P·
102, all tending to show that sheol mcans the sepulchre or
* "Ex Provcrhiorum, cap. 30, inter insatiabilia, et ea qure nunquam
dicunt S!(Oicil, sepulclmnn et t•ulva collocantur. Qurcrunt hi~ Rabbini
qure aflinitas est scpulchro ~ 71~i0), cum vulva..Sed. rcspon~ttur, q~e­
madmodum vulva rccipit semen, ct postea cd1t ahquod v1vens : 1ta
t
. 1 } m rec1
'p'1t corpora defunctorum, et postea die rcsurrec-
c tam scpu c uu .
tionis eadem rcddit."-1\len:~ssah Ben Israel, de Rcsurrcctwne .1\lor-
tuorum, p. 23.
48
gt·ave. If, therefore, a.J'11~ is the Greek rf'prcscntativc, then it
must menn the same.
Should more be wnnting to satisfy the reader on the subject
under consideration, we refer him to Sixtinus Arnama, in his
work, entitled "Anti-Darlmrus Biblicus," 12mo. Amst. 1628,
wherein the fi·auds and corruptions of the Scriptures by the
Romish church arc fully set forth and demonstrated, by re-
ference to the original Hebrew version, &c. From a large
amount, I make a few extracts.
P. 432, on Gen. xxxvii. :35, the word sheol, in Ilcbrcw, is
said to be used indiflcrently both for hell and the grave (turn
ad infernum quam ad scpulchrum); and hence the words in-
fernus and a.J'11~, by interpreters, are often put for the grave.
As employed here in the Vulgate, it is treated as ambiguous,
and as tending to establish, in the common people, the fiction
of a limbus, or place of purgatory. A host of authorities are·
presented, in proof of the gra1:e being, with scarce an excep-
tion, the appropriate meaning of shcol. More to the same
effect is given at p. 57'8, on Numb. xvi. 3:3, and at p. 665,
Job xiv. 14; \vhere we arc told, that "hie et quamplurimis
insuper locis ubi in Iatino est infernus, in Belgic. llelle, in
Ebrreo esse ~~t!l, qure vox etiam sepulchrum significnt." Also
see p. 677, Job xxiv. 19, and Ps. lxxxv. 13, with final re·
marks at p. 894, on the fraudulent translation of the Vul·
gate.
I shall merely add, that Rauppius, in his "Commentarium
Synopticum," 1GG5, in almost every place of the Scriptures in
which the word sheol is employed, regards its most appro-
priate meaning to be the gmve.
Bishop Newton's 57th and 60th Dissertations, in the 6th
vol. of his works, London, 1767; aud Bishop Hobart's "State
of the Departed," are worthy of consideration; and the fol-
lowing, from Sterne (Koran, p. 152), gives, in few words, the
full idea of the subject. He is speaking of the importance of
49
the number ll11·ec, and adds, "This leads me naturally to
ltades, Ol' adcs, the old-fashioned rrgion of distribution, ac-
cording to our good or bad deeds. It consisted of three pro-
vinces, Ercbus, Tartarus, and Elysium-beaven, hell, and
purgatory."-This is a concise view ofthe precise acceptation
of hades, of which hell constitutes a "province;" but not that
province to which, under the name of paradise, our Saviour
went, and to \vhich also the penitent thief was to accompany
him.
'Ve trust that sufficient authority has thus been afT'ordcd, to
place the object we had in view fully before the reader, viz.
the utter impropriety of that part of the third article of our
church wherein it is affirmed that Christ descended into hell,
and that, as introduced into the Apostles' creed, it is to be
firmly bdicvcd, ns being capable of proof from the Scriptures.
vVe think it is adequately shown, that whether adcs or shcol
be assumed as the ground of argument, both are equally un-
founded, when taken as the representatives of our vernacular
term of hell, and diametrically opposed to the paradise of St.
Luke. If the facts and arguments adduced have any weight,
they may perhaps lead to some change or modification in the
parts assumed to be erroneous, that may prove nc.ccptnble to
all who may coincide in opinion with the writer.
R
RE~fARKS ON PHRENOLOGY,
In its Connexion with the Soul; and as to the Existence of
a Soul in Brutes. Read before the Phrenological So.
ciety of Philadelphia, in 1822.
The following essay is not given to the public at this late date from
the period of its delivery before the Phrenological Society, when the
subject was comparatively unknown here, and almost universally de-
rided, with any view of affording instruction in the science; for since
that time, by the learned lectures and writings of Dr. Coombe and
others, its value has become properly appreciated. It is chiefly in·
tended to point out, that few sciences·are of anterior standing; and
thal long before Gall and Spurzheim undertook to maintain its right-
ful claim to rank amongst them, it had received a very extensive
consideration amongst medical and other writers, of which the facts
herein adduced will be deemed sufficient proof.
THE use of any part of the body in a due and appropriate
degree, is admitted universally to favour its improvement, both
as to health and vigour, and in the perfection of its functional
duties. The arms of the blacksmith have their muscles vastly
augmented in size and strength, by daily employment of the
ponderous sledge-hammer; the dexterity of the artisan is ac·
quired by constant habit, and his skill in his profcssio~ thereby
improved. If this be the fact in relation to merely mechanical
manipulations, can it with reason be presumed that the facul·
ties of the mind should remain stationary, \vhcn they arc sub-
51
jected to a like activity? Memory, each one perceives to be
invigorated by exercise; nor is the imagination of the poet
less vividly excited and expanded by proper culture, although
the adage even of" Poeta nascitur, non fit," should be granted
to him. Crime itself improves by habit, and the propriety of
an early and virtuous education is established by the maxim,
that "nemo fuit repentc turpissimus." The whole train of the
faculties, emotions and passions of the mind, appear to owe
their extension, whether for good or evil, to their continued*
action under the influence of a good or bad education, con-
formably to what is learned in the nursery, "just as the twig
is bent, the tree inclines." It would seem impossiule to con-
ceive of these and other improvements taking place, with no
commensurate increase of vigour in those parts respectively,
by means of which they are rendered apparent. \Vhilst, then,
the due exercise of the mind tends to the improvement of those
organs in which it is located, or through which its actions are
rendered effective, must it not be conceded that such improve-
ment in the organs will cooperate in giving energy to the
mind, and thereby evidence the mutual necessity of each to
the other? and, like the motto of our own vast <'tnpire, the
soul and body may declare, "United we stand, divided we
fall."
The 1·egular employment of the sensc.c:;, with which it has
pleased our Maker to endow us, adds much to their respective
improvement. If unduly or inordinately exercised, deteriora-
tion ensues. The absence or loss of one, is in a measure
* The result of habit in improving the operations of man, is thus
defined by Aristotle, in his fourteenth problem-" Consu~tudi~em
definit Aristotelcs, quod sit habitus, scu qualitas ex frequent• achone
et passione impressa, propterquam promptiu;; et diutius .et cum de-
lectationc operantur, et minus patiuntur."-Galen has wntten a book
expressly, "de consuctudine," and Hippocrates has not been alto-
gether silent on the subject.
52
compensated through the medium of one or more of the re-
mainder, although they nerer ean fully supply the deficiency.
The fact of the eye supplying the want of the sense of hear·
ing, is familiar to all, in the cases of the deaf and dumb. The
want of sight is pa1·tially rectified by the sense of hearing and
of touch; and even the conjoined loss of Loth hearing and of
sight, has, in u. very considerable measure, been overcome by
the sense of touch; but in all such instances, with increase of
action of the organs in which those senses are located, in ntin
may we anticipate it, if the intercommunication is cut ofr be-
tween the external organ and the sensorium. Perfect as may
be the organ of sight in all its parts, and vision resulting
therefrom of the highest character, the simple division of the
optic nerve, all else Temaining as before, effectually shuts out
the light of day, and of e\·ery external object, which now can
only be enjoyed by an act of reminiscence, or through the in-
direct medium of another sense.
These and similar facts necessarily led to the conclusion,
that the brain was the actual source or seat of thought and
sensation; and although it surpasses our limited power of re-
search to point out the precise part in which either thought or
sensation might be supposed to originate,* yet endeavours
h<.we been made to trace the nerres to their origin, with which
such a mysterious inl1uenee was presumed to be associated.
But whatc,·er may Le affirmed as to their apparent origin, no
one ean confidently assure us of its absolute certainty, or that
"' lt does not appear that the brain has been invariably considered
to be the seat of the soul. In tho "Exccrpta Gcmarre," I. cap. 9,
p. 1016, the nose is stated as its location; for in Gen. vii. 2~, it is
written, '' Omue cujus in nasibus halitus erat animre vitalis."
Tertullian considered the soul to be immortal, but that it was cor·
poreally propagated. Some supposed the soul to be corrupted as the
body became so; nnd the Gnostics of old taught that brutes were ca-
pable of reason, &c.
53
the anatomical knife has tcudcd to demonstrate the commence-
ment of their course. Far too imperfect is our vision, even
when aided by the microscope, to trace the cords of life be-
yond a limited extent in the dead body,· whilst in the livinrr
' c'
such attempt would be equally unavailing, since it would de-
stroy that living principle on which their perfection depends;
and could we even trace them to their ultimate point, we
should no more comprehend their mysterious connexion with
the soul, than we do at present.
If such difficulties attend our researches on points appa-
rently within our reach, how far greater must they be, when
connected w·ith inquiries as to the intellectual faculties tllcm-
selves! dcpcn:lcnt for their existence on the agency of some
mystcrions and inappreciable cause, but which is active or
efficient, alone, through the intennedium of materiality in
corporeal organization! The soul, that emanation from the
Deity, can be at Lest but very partially comprehended by
man in his present imperfect state. Of its essence, o1· of its
mode of being, we lmow absolutely nothing; and spcc11bte ns
we may, it would seem to be impossible to determine, by finite
wisdom, whether it be of an immatcriul or mat<'rial nature.
The endless disputes on this suLjcct Ly philosophers and thco·
logians, amount not to certainty on either side; for it is a
mystery that the Almighty has rcsen·ed to him.sclf, and has
considered it inexpedient to satisfy by a revelation, the rest·
Jess and unbounded curiosity of man. It must, nevertheless,
be admitted, that the same g1·cat Power that fi·mn nothing
called into existence the f..1bric of the universe, and from the
atomic particles of brute and inorganic matter created all the
living cridcnces of his omnipotence, by laws dC'pcnding on his
pleasure, in the form nnd ordc1· that we ~cc around us, varied
ad infinitum to suit the great and pro,·idcutial ends Ilc had in
,·icw; that Power, unquestionably, could inrest the same inor-
ganic matter with the cupability of ratiocination as well as
E2
51
with life. " ' hat has actually been the cnse will nP.ver here he
solved; nnJ hence we may conclude, thut they who contend
for the materiality of the soul, muy maintain such opinion
without being charged with opposition to the wonderful per-
fection and attributes of the Deity. l\lnterinl or immaterial,
He alone can destroy it, when once brought into existence-
for such is the language of Scripture-and, indeed, inde-
pendently of his will, the smallest speck of rnatter is eternal
as himself, and indestructible by any means that man can
employ. The utmost we can do by art, is merely that of
modifying in a slight degree its state of existence, and that
solely by the operation of laws established by himself, and
with which our acquaintance is extremely limited.
It rnight here be a question of metaphysical inquiry at what
period of the fmtal existence the soul becomes united to the
body; and whether acephalous monsters, deficient as they are
in the brain, are yet possessed of this incomprehensible agency;
but whatever our individual opinion mn y be in this particular,
as it is not esscntiully connected with the object of this essay,
we pass it by; and incidentally inquire, v.·hcthcr the soul, us
such, differs in dificrent subjects? Regarding it as an emana-
tion from the Deity, it appears to me that the question must be
answered in the negative. As God is all perfect, reason would
dictate that nothing short of perfection could flow from him ;:i!-
., ''And God saw e\·ery thing that he had made; and behold, it was
very good." Gen. i. 31. Surely, at this time there could have been
no original sin existing in Adam! When David said, Ps. li. G, "Be·
hold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceiYe
me," he could not mean that any original sin attached to him at bi~
birth, a helpless innocent being; but his language forcibly expresses
the influence of that concupiscence that is inevitably an inmate of the
human race-and which is afiirmed in the ninth article of our church
by the terms <(p6 vrp1 a-:.t~K~ >- How soon after birth, sin commences
its ravages, it would, perhaps, be difficult to determine. Dr. Adam
Clarke affirms the souls of men to differ-which is opposed to the
and hence that the soul must be uniform; or else it would imply
that perfection varied. Now it seems a solecism to maintain
such a propo~ition, if we concede the soul to be dcriYed from
the sole source of supreme wisdom, harmony and goodness;
and if this is a legitimate conclusion, it leads to the further
inquiry on what the appm·cnt difference of the minds of men
can possibly depend. IIcrc it may be perceived, that the prin-
ciples of phrenology begin to appear; and if correctly viewed,
wilt be found alone capable of eliciting a spark of truth in the
elucidation of a fact so curious and important, but which each
day's experience sufficiently establishes. If, as above main-
tained, the soul can act (or render its actions sensible to man)
only through the intcrmcdium of material organization, and no
other source or agency has, I believe, been ever suggested; it
follows necessarily, that its actions must be more or less per-
fect, exactly in the ratio of the greater or less perfection of
those organs through which they arc developed. "re might
ns readily assent to the perfection of n paralytic limb, or to
that of the circulation of the blood, when the nerves or vessels
are injured or destroyed, as to bclieye that the operations of the
mind should be conspicuously perfect, when its operative agents
arc defective or wanting.* The ,·arious faculties regarded as
innate, may truly cxist,)ut thcit· dcyc]opmcnt is precluded al-
together or in part, fl·om the faulty or defective organization.
The soul, however, is still connected with the body, and affords
fu)J e\'idcncc of' its perfection, in the perfect actions of other
parts, not so deteriorated.
views here supported; if, however, he is correct, the period of com.
mcncing sin in man, may also differ.
* \Ve might unquestionably as well accredit the ability of a new-
born infant t£1 cat and digest the most solid food of perfect manhood,
in tltc imperfect state of its digestive organs, as to suppose the soul
could demonstrate its highest powers and capabilities of ratiocination,
before the corporeal organization had come to maturity.
56
Man is oco:1sionally Lorn with a dLJcct in, or u total want of
some particulnr organ or part of' the body, and consequently
is in the same dc·gree precluded from performing the appro-
priate actions of that part-is the deduction at all unreasonable,
that if the Ol"O'ans of ratiocination arc dofecti,•e or w::mting,
this must equ~ly be produoti,•e of error in them, or of a total
absence of the influence their presence was intended to elicit?
'Ve daily notice individuals in whom the defect in one of the
external organs of sense, is sufficient to arrest the correspon-
dent operation of the mind, which in its perfect state it would
have exhibited, and that, notwithstanding the due perfection of
every other part of the organ itself, and of the soul presiding
in its functions, and this demonstrates the absolute dependence
of each upon the other. '\'hat could the soul, however per-
fect in itself, accomplish without such an intermedium with the
\Vorld? 'Vhat could the organ accomplish if separated from
its association with its divine attendant? A simple division of
the nerve of intercommunication between the two, is sufficient
to render each as useless, as if they had no existence. The
manifestation of tho soul will in vain be looked for; in vain
are the actions of the part attempted. A sense is cut off, as
though it was not present; and perfect as both may be, exclu·
sive of the simple division of the nenre, all the foreign rela-
tions of the world are immediately suspended. It is true, that,
as before mentioned, in cases of this nature, some other sense
is called into more active operation, and by its means, indi-
rectly, the action of the defective or injured organ is in some
measure supplied. Tho biind are thus enabled, montalh·, to
see through the car and through the sense of touch. The.deaf
in like manner may be said to hear by means of the eyc,-and
the Yvant of Loth hearing and seeing, is in a partial degree
compensated through the sense of fooling. If such were not
the case, a scn~e of deity, together with many of the fucul-
ties and emotions of the mind could never be called into ope·
51
ration, Lut would remain dormant, and as if Hcvcr existent.
The perfection of the soul within, is hereby estuLiishcd, though
pr~ventcd from illustrating itself through corporeal and appro-
pnatc channels.
In the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal for January 7, 1822,
some particulars arc given by Dr. Butter, that may scr\'e to
illustrate what is above stated; it is the account of a very re-
markable insensibility or imperfection of the eye in relation to
certain colours, in the perwn of a son of Dr. Tucker, nine-
teen years of age. The case is not a solitary one, however
extraordinary. Similar instances nrc recorded in the Man-
chester 1\Jemoirs, and in the 67th and 68th vol. of the Philos.
Trans. of London. It appears from that under notice, that
l\Ir. Tucker discovered his inability to distinguish several of
the primitive colours from one another, about two years pre-
ceding; that he employed n green in place of orange in some
work he was engaged in, and could not credit his mistal<e; nor
could he distinguish any difference between threads of those
two colours, when twisted around his fingers. l\lnny lending
or primitive colours he neither knows \Yhcn shown to him, nor
does he remember them whcu pointed out to him. Orange, he
calls green, and green orange; red, he Yicws as brown, and
brown as red; blue silk looks to him like pink-and pink as a
light blue. The seven primitive colours are associated in his
mind as follows: Red is mistaken for brown ; orange for green;
yellow, is generally knO\m, but sometimes is taken for orange;
green is mistaken for orange, except in grass; blue for pink;
indigo for purple, and violet fer purple. .A 11 these anomalous
impressions were equally the same, whether ,·iewing silk,
feathers, or Syme's book of colours. Other remarlu1blc aber-
rations were equally conspicuous. It \vas not the effect of
disease, for his vision had been always acute ami otherwise
perfect. How is this singular deviation from con1mon v~sion
to be explained? Surely the ~oul could not haYc been partmlly
[)S
imperfect; and the corporeal organ of vision, so far as could
be judged, seems to have been in a healthy ~tate. Some organic
modification must hmvever necessarily have existed in some
part, hy 'vhich the usual laws of the refraction of the rays of
light were altered; for the faculty of vision seems perfect in
itself-but v.·as developed through the medium of imperfect
organization in some of its ramif1cations, although inappre.
ciable by any examination that could be made.
However this may be explained, we are led to the conclu-
sion, that certain organs of the brain may be either altogether
wanting, or may be defective in different degrees, as is per·
ceptible in situations more obvious and extern::~[. In the first
case, the faculty or faculties of the mind, so far as they depend
on such a part, cannot be developed ; and in the second, the
development must be imperfect, in a commensurate ratio. We
might, perhaps, even go so far as to suppose, that for the full
perfection of any individual faculty of the mind, its location
should, (as in the case of corporeal organs) be absolute and
fixed, relatively to those adjoining, and that otherwise a detc·
rioration of its operations would result.* Habit might rectify
in a measure, the imperfection, but would probably never com·
pletely obviate the influence of original non-conformity. Could
* \Vhat would be the result, if one of the organs of the lower or
animal propensities, should be located and manifest itself amongst
those of the higher or intellectual order? Is it not probable that this
might be productive of ill consequences to the perfection of the latter?
In like manner, we might imagine that tumours or other affections of
the brain, might displace from its regular situation some organ, and by
partially or totally destroying it, in a like ratio destroy its hea!thy
manifestation, and its regular train of associated motions with the
adjoining organs. Like monstrosities of the body, such cases might
be deemed the source of mental monstrosity-ascending even to mad·
ness, &c.; and if the idea be correct, perhaps it would help to explain
some of the numerous and extravagant vagaries which at times spring
up in the mind of man.
5!)
the external organs of sight and hcarinrr be other-wise than
injured b • t · · 1 o
. ) . ranspo~ttwn. \Vhy then should not the appro-
pn~te locntton of the internal filcultics, be equally necessary to
t~etr full a~d perfect uetion? A departure from it, may pos-
sibly cxplatn some of the apparent anomnlic:s in phrenological
research, and of the operations and abcrrntions of the human
intellect. If all the organs essential to the appropriate func-
tions of the soul were invariably the same, and equally perfect
in form, size and location, there ought, apparently, to be no
diversity in their functional performances, independently alone
of what might be attributed to education; which coerces them,
as it wen:', from habit, to stronger action, and that for good or
evil, according to the character of thnt instruction. Dut is it
not a well cstabli::;hcd fact, that individuals of the same family,
and educated alike, do differ most remarkably in disp0sition,
and in the capability of attaining informntion, or of deducing
conclusions from data founded on the same basis? In fact,
the same discrepancy in character, &c., is equally conspicuous
in the brute creations, both in domestic and in savage life.
It has been asserted, in oppo~ition to the opinions respecting
the truths of phrenology, that the brain has an extent too
limited, to enable it to afford a determinate origin to so vast an
assemblage of organs, as apparently would be required to elu-
cidate the sources or development of the numerous faculties
and propensities exhibited by man; and at first, such an asser-
tion might be considered as unanswerable. llut we may
observe, that it is highly probable many of them arc of a com-
pound clwracter (as from the seven primitive colours all the
boundless variety of nature is constituted,) and that even if
this is not the case, who will venture eonfir!C'ntly to limit pre-
cisely the exact extent or bounuary of each or any of them 1
·when we advert to the infinite minuteness of a mite, the ne plus
ultra of ancient idcns as to the bounds of animal existence in
this respect; a mere speck in creation when placed in com-
60
parison with the gigantic forms of the whale or the elephant,-
when we observe its various movements, its progressive exist·
ence, and the rapidity of its increase in numbers; we are led
at once to admit, without difficulty, that within that diminutive
frame, a vast assemblage of organs essential to its animal
life does actually exist, each of which is separate nnd distinct
from the other, both in structure and in use; yet all essential
to the whole, though individually, nay, collectively, too small
for investigation. A muscular fabric there exists,-a circu-
lation of some description, from which its various parts are
formed and nourished, a digestive apparatus, and possibly a
nervous system, to mention no more! to all which is super-
added a principle of life, all thus united in a mass of matter
scarcely capable of recognition by the naked eye; when we
advert to these facts, we may be led to the conclusion that a
great extent of boundary is not required by the Creator of the
universe for the location of any or of all the organs on which
the existence or development of the faculties may depend.
And if we should extend this consideration to a glance at those
animalculm,known to us only through microscopic observations,
the difficulty increases, although the facts are at once admitted
by the inquirer after truth into those mysteries of nature. So
far then, from minuteness being an insuperable obstacle in
phrenological research, it rather tends to strengthen it, and will
lead to the admission, that the brain is of sufficient extension
to afford ample origin to all the organs of sense und of ratio-
cination, even if ten times more diversified than they are con-
sidered to be.
So far as I can perceive, revelation has unfolded to us no-
thing definitively, by which imperfect reason can venture to
pronounce with certainty as to the nature of the !!oul; that is,
and ever has bc:en a contested point between metaphysicians,
and in all probability e\'cr will be, until the mystery is unfolded
in a future state of existence. Since minds of equal eminence
61
have contested as to its materiality or immateriality, I am
satisfied to await that event in order to arrive at its certain de-
velopment. I am Jed, however, to draw the inference, that as
it has been left undecided by the Great Author of its e"\istence
a mere speculative opiuion on either side of the question, and
which a divine revelation would have effectually obviated, can-
not be justly considered in opposition to the strictest principles
of religion; and consequently that the subject is not less appro-
priate to the exercise of the faculties implanted in us by our
Creator, than that of any other of a metaphysical and mys-
terious nature. Could \Ve possibly comprehend-it, it would not
be found opposed to truth, which must always be in unison
with a just philosophy, however repugnant to early imbibed
and preconceived opinions. All would lead to the salutary
confirmation of the absolute dcpenduncc of man on his Creator
in every possible respect in which he can be viewed. 1cannot,
with these impressions, therefore believe, that every one who
nccredits the materiality of the soul, is necessarily to be
esteemed either an atheist or an infidel. Neither can r
imagine that the salvation of mankind is at all connected \rith
the views that may be had thereon; for were this the case1
the truth would have been most clearly pointed out, equally
with those duties we owe respectively to God and to our neigh-
bours-among which charity stands preeminent, in place of
anathema, imprisonment and death!'"'
*·when we speak of materiality, allusion is always had to the con-
stituent and diversified objects of creation that we see around us.
Now, what do we actually know of all this? The ancients talked of
four clements as the basis of the world. How stands that theory now?
A few years ago, the earths and alkalies were regarded as elementary.
How as to that in the present more enlightened age? Philosophy now
teaches that there are some forty or fifty elementary eonstitue11ts.
How will this hold one hundred years hence? \Vhat do we, in fact,
know of any thing around us? A few apparently (but not all fully)
F
62
Be its nature as it may, we do perceive, in its presence within
us, something that approximates us to the Deity, re11uiring,
however, the cooperation of[secondary causes; that is, a most
wonJerful organization of vitalized material particles, all <.Jc.
rived from brute and inorganic matter directly or remotely,
to render the operations of the soul sensible and effectivf'.
Through the agency of certain external organs of sense, im-
pressions are received and conveyed to the sensorium, pro·
ductive there, of effects varying according to the nature of the
rec1p1ent. These give rise to the varied operations of the mind
or soul, which, without the cooperation of the external senses,
could never give evidence of its existence.
Now a slight extension of these views will probably lead us
to acqniesce in an opinion maintained by many writers, that
animals inferior to man, are likewise possessed of that prin.
ciple or essence called n soul.
'Why is man defined to be a reasonable or reasoning animal?
It is because he can reason from cause to effect, and can trace
effects to causes; because he possesses the passions of love,
hope, fear, &c.; and especially because he possesses that most
impcrtant faculty of memory. Rut if this be the case, can
any one deny to inferior animals, whom we choose to desig.
nate by the name of brutes, many, or all of the above quali-
ties or passions, or of the faculty or power of memory? The
established principles, which in a short time may be possibly over-
thrown, to make place for others, that in turn will afford amusement
to the philosophers of a future period ! Are we warranted to be intole-
rant to each other on speculati\'e, metaphysical and mysterious contro-
versies, whilst absolutely ignorant of the nature of that tangible
matter that forms both brute and ani mated nature? And I may further
ask, whatever be the character and properties of matter, here on
earth-may not the same great Architect employ in another state of
existence, materials altogether different from them, and impressed by
laws distinct from those that govern the systems of this material uni·
verse?
63
dog, our familiar associate, will sufficiently answer such denial.
Acute and sensible, alive to friendship and affection, he appears
on many occasions to reason from causes to their eflects, and
from a dread of punishment, he seems equally to retrace his
ideas back to the causes that led to it on former occasions, and
wisely therefore he avoids their repetition.
The faculty or power of reasoning, seems to result from a
combination of ideas. The man who is per~uaded of the ex-
istence of a Supreme Being, is led by a train of reasoning to
view him in the wonders of creation; and by a train not much
dissimilar, the dog is kept in awe of that punishment, which
memory informs him was inflicted for such or such a fault, and
which reflection or association of ideas leads him to anticipate
a renewal of, on a repetition of the same. How evidently too,
does he express the emotions or passions of joy or sorrow, of
hope, fear, anger, shame, &c., according to the varied situation
in which he may be placed; can man describe them by actions
more expressive 1 Now, if these propositions are correct, must
they not confirm what is above sustained, that animals do pos-
sess, in varied degrees, like man, those mental affections on
which the latter sets so high an estimate, and that memory
forms the basis of such powers, by which, through appro-
priate organs, their existence is developed 1
If then it is admitted, that all which the superiority of man
enables him to accomplish, is the result of reason; it must be
conceded that animals, who evince by similar pwofs that they
can reason in a similar manner, although inferior in degree,
and that they are suscP.ptive of similar impressions; must owe
such powers to a similar cause as that through which they
are produced in man; and that the latter excels him in the
exact ratio in which the effects and operations of the po·wers
of ratiocination are superior in number and degree.
These remarks lead us back to a further consideration ot
that interesting subject, the quality or nature of the soul, which,
64
althouO'h I reO'ard it as beinO' altr.aether m;·sterious and beyond
0 :::, 0 Yb
our comprehension, yet I have ventured to speak of it as not
incompatible on that account with metaphysical investigation,
which in every particular owes its existence to the inquiries as
to this unknown agent, whatever may be its essence or charac-
ter. The power of ratiocination being shown to exist in ani-
m<:ds, though inferior to that of man, and such power in man
being uniformly ascribed to the presence of a soul, it seems a
legitimate and necessary consequence, that we should attri-
bute a similar power in animals to a like agency. If then we
maintain the immateriality of the human soul, we must un-
questionably invest that of animals with the same quality. It
appears the inevitable consequence of the preceding data; for
so closely do the powers of ratiocination in brutes resemble
those of man, so deducible are they from a similar source:
that what the one is, of such like character and nature must
be the other; unless we most unphilosophically and unrea-
sonably attempt to establish two principles to effect one and the
same result!
But on the contrary, should we contend that all the sagacious
actions of brutes are the result of mere corporeal org~nization
alone, and altogether unconnected with an essence so divine as
that of a soul; then, as the superiority of man depends entirely
on his preeminence in the same power of ratiocination, it
would seem to follow, that such superiority may equally arise
from a corresponding superiority of corporeal organization.
Are we at all acquainted with the absolute refinement of which
matter is susceptible? And refmed it must be in an exquisite
degree, if the rational actions of brutes are dependent upon it.
\Ve have abuve dcmonstntted the infinite tenuity of matter in
the mite and microscopic animals, and in mere brute and in-
organic matter we may perceive an equal diversity-as for
instance, in comparing the amount of matter contained (by
mere affinity of aggregation of which we know as little as we
G5
do of the soul itself) in a cubic inch of gold, with the same
bulk of hydrogen gas; calcubtion will demonstrate the dif-
ference to be as 100,000 to 1. Even this is triflinO' if we
take the odorous particles emanating from a grain of' musk,
diffusing themselves over a vast space for weeks or months,
without nny appreciable loss of weight in the musk it::;elf-or
perhaps the yet more attenuated matter of contagion, which,
whatever it be, is probably, nay, we may say, certainly of a
compound nature, and consequently composed of matter yet
more attenuated; or, in fine, compare the matter of light, an
atom of which is small enough to penetrate the dense cornea
of the organ of vision, and the still denser medium of the
diamond; yet it is itself, if out· philosophy of light is true/
compounded of seven distinct and separable particles !-and
then we shall, perhaps, be obliged to acknowledge that we
know but little about the whole subject. Because we, with
profound arrogance, have thought it expedient to give to inani-
mate matter the name of brute, inert, &c., must we, therefore,
deem it absolutely impossible to be so modified by its divine
Creator, that it could be rendered capable of perception and of
thought! when we see on all sides, and in om·selvcs, this very
matter, brute and inactive, and inorganic as it once was, through
the energy of Omnipotence, vivified, and combined in organs
replete with scnsil.Jility, and fitted as a receptacle for the habi-
tation of that yet more wonderful accompaniment, a soul !
The immaterialist who thus argues, confutes himselt~ for he
cannot conceive mere abstract matter to be so exquisitely
modified as to give intelligence to brutes, without gmnting at
the same time, that, however effeeted, it is of a character, in
all respects, similar to the power that actuates himself.
Am I wrong in supposing the opinions of those '' ho main-
*Dr. Franklin says "I am much in the dark about light;" yet he
was a profound and enlig!ttened philosopher.
F2
GG
tain the immateriality of the 8oul, and aflirm the absolute im-
possibility of its material existence, without being able to de-
monstrate from positive rcvelatiou on either side of the ques·
tion, by which its peculiar essence may be fully established;
am I wrong, I repeat, in presuming that opinion to be chiefly
based on the immortality of this incomprehensible associate of
material existence? Independently of the conviction enter-
tained by them that mere matter is incapable of being ren-
dered qualified for ratiocination, the opinion is supposed to be
strengthened by the declaration, that the world and its con-
tents ure to be ultimately destroyed by fire, and, consequently,
that the soul, if material, would be therein comprehended.
Yet in opposition to the direct and plain expressions of St.
Paul, they do not hesitate to maintain the resurrection of the
same identical body that is deposited at death in the grave.-
"Why is it not to partake of the like destruction with all other
matter in this closing catastrophe? But the great apostle
speaks of the resmrection of the dead, not of the body- and
every where, in so doing, especially in 1 Cor. xv. he seems
clearly to shut out every idea that could lead to the popular
belief, and in words so e~plicit, that they cannot be set aside
by the sophistry of a vague and self-sufficient philosophy.
"How are the dead raised," a!Sks St. Paul, "and with what
body do they come?'' "Thou fool," (adds he, as if antici-
pating the disputes that have since arisc>n on the subject)
"Thou fool, thou sowest not that body that shall be;" and
following up his argument, he adds, "So also is the resurrec-
tion of the dead; it is sown in corruption, it is raised in incor·
ruption ; it is sown a natm·al body, it is raised a spiritual
body :-and I say unto you, tlia1 flesh and blood cannot in·
herit the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit in-
corruption; we shall all be changed-the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be changed." If these words are
true, and who can doubt them, where do we find a trace of
67
the same body in which lile is brought to a close? 'Vhat, in
fhct, would be the ine,·itable result of such an event? 'Vould
not heaven be peopled \rith eYery variety of disease whereby
existence bad been terminated? In place of beauty and com-
plete perfection, on all siues we should encounter the most dis-
gusting objects! "Plague, pestilence and famine," cancer,
ulcers of every variety, leprosy, dropsy, decrepitude, with
madness and monstrosities of all descriptions !-Are such to
be the inmates of the New Jerusalem? No! "We nil are
changed in the twinkling of an eye." The bodies there,
whatever be their nature and the change alluded to, are not
those that here inrcsteu the immortal spirit, formed in the
image of its l\Jakcr; and although the expressions of the
apostle are at present wrapt in mystery for us, they yet pro-
claim the all-important doctrine of a resurrection !'if' But to
leave this digression,-
* The following extract from a sermon of the Rev. Paul H. Maty,
is given in a review of his book (Analyt. Rev. 3, p. 32, 178!)), as his
"Objections to the resurrection of the same body," which the re-
viewer adds, "arc argumentative and philosophically conclusive:
they are, perhaps, as well stated as in any part of the controversies
on that subject."
"The Deists (says he) would not attempt to contradict the particu.
lnr fact (the resurrection of Christ) if we did not make use of it to
prove a general proposition-' As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall
all be made alive.' This is what he rejects with disdain; and, it
must be owned, he would do it with reason too, if, instead of resting
satisfied with what has been taught us by the evangelists and apos-
tles, we should adopt the reveries and baseless superstructures of
modern philosophers. If, for instance, we should pretend our bodies
will be exactly the same at the resurrection as they are now; how is
it possible they should be exactly the same ?-What size, what shape,
what dimensions could a man have, if all the atoms that at separate
times have entered into his composition, were collected into one
mass? Is the world, or even the universe, large enough to supply its
assembled inhabitants, of all ages, with matter? How can it be pos-
6'3
Should it Lc urged that corporeal organization, although
capable of being wrought up to that exquisite degree that is
perceptible in the action of brutes, is yet incapable of that
highe1· deg1·ee of intellect perceptible in man; and that he re-
quires the addition of an immaterial essence, called a soul, in
order to produce the difference perceived between them; it
may be replied, that to argue thus is to determine by our finite
conceptions, what infinite Omnipotence and wisdom is able to
accomplish, and to affirm positively, the precise extent to which
the Almighty can go, in modifying that matter which he Him-
self created. l\lorcover, it tends to establish an additional
principle, by whatever name it may be called, when, for aught
we know, and indeed from all we may justly infer from all
around us, one alone is quite sufficient. It is, apparently,
self-evident, that if the Almighty can so modify inert and
senseless matter as to render it susceptive of life and of rational
perceptions and actions in b1·utes to a limited degree; we can
have no cause to deny to his omnipotence, the ability., still
more exquisitely to modify that matter, so as to render it
capable of the far superior acts of ratiocination that arc con-
spicuous in man. "Must every thing be impossible that our
insufficiency cannot account for 1 Are there not innumerable
mysteries in nature which accident reveals, or experimental
philosophy demonstrates to us daily? And shall we yet pre-
sible that elements which have passed successively through many
bodies, should at the same time resume their places in each of them?
Who should adjudge the particle, which, like the wife mentioned in
the Gospel, has not only belonged to seven, but to seventy times
seven proprietors? The ground is not tenable; thank heaven, then,
that we are not obliged to defend it; let us repair to the eminence,
where, indeed, we shall be impregnable; let us assert with St. Paul,
that, though we shall not all die, we shall be all changed; that we
shall rise again with bodies, but with different and far more glorious
bodies than those we went to sleep in."
69
sumc to limit the power of that Great Author of that very
nature? vVhat was it that c·reated matter? \Vhat was it that
gave that matter motion? What was it that to that matter
and motion added sensation and life? What was it that super-
added to these, consciousness, intelligence and reflection?
What was it"-but enough. Sterne's Korun, p. 50.
Now if from nothing all this has been accomplished by an
Almighty Power, well may we, as above, ask, "shall we pre-
sume to limit it?" Docs not our Saviour tell the Pharisees,
(Luke xix. 40,) "if these should hold their peace the stones
would immediately cry out?" Did He mean this literally?
It is to be so presumed, for no sense or meaning would other-
wise appeut· to be connected with an expression so extravagant.
If then power could be thus given to mere matter to speak,
could not that same matter be rendered capable of ratiocina-
tion?''-'
The fact appears to be, that we are so tenacious of affecting
to know the utmost qualities and capabilities of things, the
ne-plus ultra ofevery object of science, fluctuating as it ever has
been, that we delight to c-ircumscribe the boundaries of Omni-
potence, and thereby to affix a limitation to it! \Ve pride
ourselves moreover, in drawing thus a line of demarcation be-
tween ourselves and the beasts that perish, as we are pleased
to say; although formed of like materials, and constituting in
fact, the chief intet·vening link between us and inanimate mat-
ter. \Ve cannot endure the idea of having an orgnnization
similat· to that of brutes, by which both they and 're are ren-
dered capable of information; but fondly ascribe to ourselves
a superior and spiritual essence 'rhich we deny to them, con-
sidering it impossible that any thing beneath an immaterial
+<-The miracle wrought in the Ass, by which he was cn~blcd to re-
monstrate with his master Balaam, is assuredly as great as that which
took place on the day of Pentecost.
70
soul can be productive of thought and reason in so high extent
as man evinces, distinct in character and operation from that
low and mean intelligence which we unwillingly admit in
brutes. Nor is this aversion lessened by the persuasion that
beasts will perish forever at the termination of their present
life, inasmuch as the immaterialty of the soul is regarded as
the cause that leads to a future state of endless duration, as if
that which had a beginning, could not possibly be equally
destroyed at the fiat of its Omnipotent Creator! ·what indeed
are we to infer from the words of our Saviour himself, who
tells us to fear Him who can destroy both soul and body? Be
it material or immaterial, it would then appear not to be neces-
sarily indestructible, or the expression of our Saviour must
be taken in some other sense than that which the literal mean-
ing conveys.
But the immortality of the soul is not necessarily implicated
with either a material or immaterial character. In either
case, that immortality must assuredly depend on the will of
its l\Iaker. If material, nothing short of that Power to which
it owes its being, is capable of effecting its subsequent destruc-
tion. Alike in this respect with all created matter, every
atom is eternal as Himself, except at His decree. Hence at
His pleasure it may be annihilated; or if compounded of some
of the varied atoms of creation, the simple decomposition or
separation of those atoms will destroy at once the specific ag·
gregation on which its essence depended. But if it be imma-
terial, which it must be in bmtes if it is so in man, still its
immortality will be dependent solely on the will of God.
It may be incidentally remarked in reference to the in-
destructibility of matter save by the fiat of its Creator, that we
are told in Scripture, that the world and all contained therein
is to be destroyed by fire. It is not said that it will be anni·
hilated; nor have we any reason from revelation or otherwise
to believe that any particle of matter will experience such a
71
.f.:1te. It will perhaps be readily admitted, from what we know
ofthe agency of heat in changing the forms ofbodies, and by
overpowering their aggregation, thereby bringing their parti-
cles into new combinations, that a small increase of that tem-
perature which man even is capable of producing by artificial
means, would amply suffice to destroy completely the aggrega-
tion of matter, even of such as art has never yet accomplish-
.ed ;* and by thus overpowering the force of attraction, the
whole globe and its contents would probably be converted
into a gaseous state of chaotic confusion similar to that in which
it first existed, and from which it was withdrawn by those
affinities that were impressed upon it by Omnipotence.t Now,
* See an admirable communication " On the physical facts con-
tained in the Bible compared with the discoveries of modern sciences,"
by .l\larcel de Serres, in the Edinb. Philosophical Journal,-and from
thence printed in Littell's Living Age for l\Iay, 1845-which power.
fully strengthens the preceding, &c.-Sec also an interesting paper by
M. Simon Tyssot, in the 12th Vol. Journal Littcrairc, p.l54, printed at
the Hagne, 1723, 12mo., in which some bold speculations on the sub-
ject of Creation, appear to forestall most of those of the present period,
as deduced from the Geology of the Earth.
1 "GAsEous STATE oF THE EARTH.-Though the mind,accustomed
to philosophical inquiries, may find it difficult to comprehend the idea
that this planet once existed in a gaseous state, this difficulty will
vanish upon considering the nature of tliC materials of which it is
composed must constantly undergo. Water offers a familiar example
of a substance existing on the surface of the globe, in the separate
states of rock, fluid and vapour, for water consolidated into ice is as
much a rock as granite or the adamant; and as we shal1 hereafter
have occasion to remark, has the power of preserving for ages the
animals and vegetables that may be therein embedded. Yct, upon an
increase of temperature, the glaciers of the AIps, and the icy pin-
nacles of the arctic circles, disappear; and, by a degree of heat still
higher, might be resolved into vapour; and by other agencies might
be separated into two invisible gases, oxygen and hydrogen. l\Ictals
may, in like manner, be converted into gases; and in the laboratory
of the chemist, all kinds of matter pass easily through every grade of
72
os such laws were the offspring of IIis will alone, should it
please Him simply to suspend them, all action, whether chemi-
cal or mechanical, would be at an end; and nrw laws, under
the same Almighty direction, would readily produce a new
earth, such as we arc assured will be tlw successor of that we
now inhabit; and, which may subscrve the nature of those spi·
ritual or other beings who may be assigned for its inhabitants.
'Vhilst apparently, a more simple view of this catastrophe than
that of popular belief, it has the aspect of philosophic proba-
bility, which might even lead us to imagine that this earth, is
in fact, a renewal of a preceding one, which in like manner
may haYc had its predecessors in a regular and stated course,
under the direction of the Divine 'Vill.
Recurring from this digression, we remark, that it does not
seem a necessm'JJ consequence, in admitting that brutes hare
souls of a nature somewhat similar to that of man, that they
are, like his, invested with the character of immortality; or,
in other words, that they will not experience the common
destruction of all created matter. If God has been graciously
pleased to grant that high prerogative to man, it was clearly
optional, and subservient to Ilis divine intentions, and equally
so to deny it in the case of brutes. But as nothing certain is
revealed on the subject, the affirmative of a future existence of
the SOlJ]s of brutes has been frequently and wurmly maintained
by many humane and philanthropic writers, under the Chris-
tian as wc11 as under other dispensations.''-' The Pythagorean
transmutation, from the most dense and compact to an aeriform state.
'\Ve cannot, therefore, refuse our assent to the conclusion, that the
entire of our globe might be resolved into a permanently gaseous
form, merely by the dissolution of the existing combinations of matter."'
Mantell's '\Vonders of Geology.
* See Rush-Medical Museum, Vol. 4, p. 229. Heartley-History
of Man, Vol. 2, p. 43G. Hildrop, Free Thoughts, &e. Athenian
Oracle, Vol. 1. British Magazine and Review, Vol. 3, p. 357.
73
transmigration of the soul, and all its ramiftcatiom:, appears to
have h d ·t · · · h' · ·
a I s ongm 111 t ts or some analogous opm10n: and when
we notice the tortures, privations and miseries of the brute
creation, arising from our wants or from our caprices, we can
scarcely reconcile it with our ideas of the mercy and justice
of their Creator, if we fail to accredit a future retribution for
their present extreme and unmerited suflcrings.
The following remarks of Dr. Adam Clarke, in his Com-
mentaries on the 8th ch. of St. Paul to the Romans, arc too
enlightened and too closely connected with this subject, to re-
quire any apology for their introduction here.
"THE restoration of the brute creation to o. state of happi-
ness has been thought by several to be the doctrine of verses
19,-25. In the notes on those verses I have givcn reasons
against this opinion; and have proved that the Gentiles and
not the irrational part of the creation, are the persons of whom
the Apostle speaks; nor can any consistent interpretation be
given of the place if it be applied to the brute creation. But
although this doctrine is not contained in the above verses, it
Universal Magazine, Vol. 34, p. 323. Gentleman's 1\lagazine, Vol.
38, p.l77. Cath. l\1. Graham-Letters on Education. Jortin's Sermon
on the Goodness of God.-Universal History, Vol. 1, p. 96-and many
others.
"There was a book lately published, styled 'Of the Future Lives of
Brutes,' which gave great offence to Divines. I cannot see why.
The only fault I found with it was, that it was poorly written. Is
there only such a proportion of sah'ation in the gift of Providence,
that parsons need be jealous of the participation? To suppose the
inferior animals of creation to be endowed with souls, must presup·
pose our own to be out of all dispute." Sterne's Koran, p. 115.
The celebrated physician Scnnertus, "was accused of blasphemy
and impiety, on pretence of having taught, that the souls ~f bea.sts
are not material; for this was affirmed to be the same thtng w1th
teachin<Y that they are as immortal as the soul of man." lliogr. Dic-
tionary~Vol. 1J. London, 1784.
G
does not follow that the doctrine itself is not true. Indeed
there are several reasons which render the supposition very
probable.
1. The brute creation nc\'er sinned against God ; nor are
they capable of it: and consequently, cannot be justly liable
to punishment.
2. But the whole brute creation is in a state of suffering;
partake of the common infirmities and p1 ivations of life as
well as mankind: they suffer, but who can say thut they suf.
fer justly?
3. As they appear to be necessarily involved in the suffer·
ings of sinful man; and yet neither through their fault nor
their folly; it is natural to suppose that the Judge of all the
earth, who ever does right, will find some means hy which
these innocent creatures shall be compensated for their suffer·
ings.
4. That they have no compensation here, their afflictions,
labours and death prove: and if they are to have any compen·
sation, they must have it in another state.
5. God, the fountain of all goodness, must have originally
designed them for that measure of happiness which is suited
to the powers with which he had endowed them. But, since
the fall of man, they never had that happiness: and, in their
present circumstances, never can.
6. As to intelligent beings, God has formed his purposes in
reference to their happiness, on the ground of their rational
natures. He has decreed that they shall be happy if they
will, all the means of it being placed within their poYver; and
if they be ultimately miserable, it is the effect of their own, un.
constrained choice. Therefore, His pmpose is fblfdled, either
in their happiness or misery ; because he has purposed that
they shall be happy if they please; and that misery shall be
the result of their refusal.
7. But it docs not appear that the brute creation arc incapa·
75
blc of this cl · d · · .
. . 101ce; an 1t 1s evident that they arc not placed
m then· present misery throu(J'h either their choice or their sin·
hence, if no purpose of God ~an be ultimately frustrated, thes~
creatures must be restored to that state of happiness for which
they have been made; and of which they have been depri,·ed
through the transgression of man.
8. To say, that the enjoyments which they have in this life,
are a sufficient compensation, is most evidently false; for, had
not sin entered into the world, they would have had much
greater enjoyments, without pain, excessive labour and toil,
and without death; and all those sufferings which arise from
its predisposing causes. Nor does it appear that they have
much happiness from eating, drinking and rest, as they have
these only in the proportion in which they are necessary to
their existence as the slaves of men. Therefore, allowing
that they have even gratification and enjoyment in life, they
have much less than they would have had, had not sin entered
into the world; and, consequently, they have been deprived of
the greater portion of the happiness designed for them by their
bountiful Creator.
9. It is therefore obvious, that the gracious purpose of God
has not Leen fulfilled in them; and, that as they have not lost
their happiness through their own fault, both the beneficence
and justice of God are bound to make them a reparation.
10. Hence it is reasonable to conclude, that, as from the
present constitution of things, they cannot have the happiness
desianed for them in this state, they must have it in another."
l\L'ln is said to be made a little lower than the angels; we
may suppose, in explanation of this, that one or more senses
are supemdded in the last1 to the five that man enjoys, and if
so, what an infinitely superior range must the faculties of the
anrrelic host necessarilY possess above us! Nor is it at all
im~robable, that such acldition may be allotted to us in a future
76
state, in order to raise us to an equality with them."' In brutes,
although equally possessed of five senses, how then is it t~at
such inequality exists? If in both man and brute a soul exists
(material or immaterial, for what it is in the one, it must be in
the other), with senses equal in number,-(some of which arc
more perfect in many animals than in the human race;) why
must we presumptuously shut them out from a future state, in
which they might experience some compensation for their un-
merited sufferings in this? Why may not a haven if not a
heaven, be reserved for them, accordant with their qualifica-
tions and capacity of happiness? "\Vhat is the apparently
distinctive diflerence between them, that affords superiority to
man? If we trace the faculties of each, we find some pos-
sessed by man which are denied to brutes,-among these,
most prominently appears, a sense of Deity I It is true that
a slight trace of a moral faculty appears in brutes, as evinced
by a sense of shame on some occasions, quickened by the
* Tcrtullian speaks of the Elysian fields as a determinate locality,
which is spoken of as Abraham's bosom, &c.; and he ashs "if the souls
are not there in expectation of the final judgment? and what is their
state at that time? Shall we sleep then? Amongst the living, the
soul does not sleep-it is for the body,"-and Origen, in his 7th
homily on Leviticus, among other matters, when speaking of the
place to which the souls of the saints go after death, says c: Puto
quod Sancti quique, discedentes ex hac vita, permaneant in loco aliqno
in terra posito, que paradisum dicit scriptura divina, ulut in quodam
eruditionis loco, et ut ita dixerim adjutorio, ul sclwla animarum: in
quo de omnibus his, qure in terris viderant, doccantur, judicia quoque
quredam accipiant de consequentibus et futuris, sicut in hac quoque
vita positi judicia que dat futurorum, licet per speculum in renigmate,
tamen ex aliqua parte conciperant, qure manifestius et lucidius Sanetis
in suis locis et tcmporibus revclantnr,'' &c.
Extracts from Bibliothcca Sancta, by Sixtus Sinensis, JG92. We
perceive that Origen has here forestalled some writers of this period,
in respect to the improvement and instruction of the soul, in its tem-
porary abode between death and the final judgment.
77
means of memory; but cif a sense cif Deity, no evidence exists,
and hence they arc truly shut out from all claims as moral
agents; and cannot be subject to punishment by a benevolent
Creator for actions uncontrollable from such a sense, and by
which, if they possessed it, they would be led to a knowledge
of good and evil. Perfect then as they may be, alike with
man in the number and integrity of their common senses, we
may readily conclude (and by it, add strength to the funda-
mental principles of phrenology) that no location in their brain
is afforded to that important faculty, nor organ through whose
medium its actions might be developed.'" Hence (as in idiots)
the Deity unknown, cannot be acknowledged and duly honour-
ed. A revelation of a resurrection and of a future state, would
have been useless; although such a resurrection may ensue,
and happiness enjoyed, proportioned to their inferior faculties,
as here displayed.
The opinion of Dr. Clarke above stated, must evidently be
associated with the existence of some spiritual or immortal
essence in the brute, independent of the corporeal frame, of
*In days of yore, a soul was supposed to exist not in brutes only1
but even in plants. This was a well received opinion among philoso.
phers: perhaps as wise as those of present notoriety.
"In plantis est tantum anima 't'cgctatira; iu brutis est tantum
anima scnsiti-ca; in hominibus est tantum una anima, scilicet intcllcc-
tiva, in qua· ccteuc contincnter," &c. ;Margarita Pltilosopltica, 1508,
4to. Lib. ii. Chap. 13. The good folks of that distant period were
more tolerant than in these enlightened days. 'Tis even stated inch.
16 of the above work, when considering the soul as a light, inclosed
in a lantern of horn or glass, which is bright in proportion to the clear-
ness and cleanliness of the inclosure, though the light itself inside is
I d tllat "In stultis i<ritur et fatuis, anima rationalis est:
unc 1ange , o _ _
· t ob co·-11oris indi~Jlositionrm, opera mmus cmicant?
CUJUS amen ' · _ _ . .
"Rectc," replies the teacher,-" Recte, nam cts1 mtell~ctiva. orgamca
non sit: Conjuncta tamcn corpori, corporalium spcciCs per sensus
recipit !"
o2
78
which it was the miserable tenant. What his particular views
in this respect were, are not distinctly enunciated; and the
extract is to be received for as much as it is worth, in con-
nexion with the object of this essay, without further enlarge-
ment. From all that has been said, without perplexing our-
setves by additional remarks on the nature and character of
the soul, it would seem obvious, that, without the intermedium
of corporeal organs, it would be to us, as though it had no ex-
istence; and those organs must be of a definite and determi-
nate character; its multifarious actions of thought, word or
deed, depend entirely on the nature and degree of perfection in
the respective organs, through which it is manifested ;-vision
accomplished by an action of the soul, through the agency of
the eye and its appendages, cannot, by volition, be effected
through the ear, however anxious the mind might be to modify
the channel of its operation. The soul is, therefore, absolutely
restrained to such actions alone, which the construction of the
different organs is adapted to accomplish; and those actions
will be in due vigour and proportion, just according to their
healthy or imperfect state. Could we see as distinctly, and
observe the organs of the intellectual faculties, with equal care
and precision, as the more external ones of sense, we probably
would entertain a more favourable impression as to the doc.
trines of phrenology, if indeed it is itself insufficient to pro-
duce conviction of its truth.
It may surely claim attention, and is deserving of considera-
tion, why, if the operations of the soul are altogether inde-
pendent of corporeal organizntion, why, nevertheless, tl1ose
operations are perfect, in the ratio of the health and perfection
of the organs and their functions. * \Vhy should they decrease
"" The organs of the sensorium or brain, numerous as they are re.
presented to be, yet they all are actuated or set in motion by one mys·
terious principle-the soul. This principle of all intelligence may be
supposed to act occasionally through the medium or instrumentality
79
in pcr~ection, exactly in the ratio in which, from age, disease
or ucctdent, those bodily organs become imperfect? Numer-
of one organ alone, sometimes through two or more, producing there-
by a corresponding diversity of effect, and that beneficial or injurious
according as the nature of such combinations may be harmonious or
the reverse. If such be the case, the sensorium may, not inaptly, be
likened to a vast organ (musical) of an equal number of stops, all
called into operation through the agency of one great uniform princi-
ple, the wind, collected in a reservoir or bellows, which is distributed
through appropriate channels or pipes, framed in conformity to the
intentions of the maker, as a flute, a trumpet or other musical instru-
ment. By opening one or more of those stops, alone o1· in combina.
tion, a concert is produced, harmonious or otherwise, according to the
judicious or faulty association of the musician; that is, exactly in the
ratio in which the respective notes are caused to combine. The fine
and delicate notes of the flute can scarcely associate correctly with the
loud and martial notes of the trumpet or the drum, or they would
pro!>ably be overpowered in the louder manifestation of those instru-
ments.
An organ may be perfect in the hands of the musician in the mani·
fcstation of a single stop alone ; it becomes improved by the addition
of two or more, progressively in number, up to the full extent of its
construction; each in itself is perfect, yet the cooperation of all is
essential to the highest state of harmony for which the instrument
was intended, because all the exquisite combinations or manifestations
of sound, constituting the concert, could not be known, save from the
associated action of every part.
May we not affirm that thus it is with the mind or soul, and the
organ by which it is devel(1ped, the brain: acting through appropriate
and constituted channels? The mind is there, but should some organ
be defeeti•;e, or altogether. wanting, through which it was intended to
operate; that operation must necessarily be wanting or defective also.
The intellect is consequently extensive and perfect, in the ratio of the
number and perfection of the organs through which the soul performs
its part:-hence the chain of intellect from that of man.' _do'':n to the
lowest order of animal life-improved in s0me by educat10n-m others
restrained to one fixed and unvaried standard, called instinct, supply-
ino- adequately all their wants, which are wisely limited to a few par
· "' 1 beyond \Vhich the"' have no aspirations, to perplex and worry
t1cu ars, "
them.
so
ous are the questions that present tiH'mseh·es as to the deterio-
ration of the fitcJtltics of both body and mind, arising from
effusion of water or blood, from tumours in the brain, from gas-
tric and other intestinal affections, fwm hypochondriasis, plne-
nitis, apoplexy and various other discuses; and further re-
quiring to be informed how it is, that " the soul, secure in its
existence," is neYcrthelcss compelled to follow in its opera-
tions, and to evince them to the world, precisely in the degree
of perfection or imperfection which the bodily organs pre-
scribe, when under the influence of morbid causes; or, when in
health, under that of an appropriate or inappropriate education!
How could madnes~, idiocy or any mental disease become
apparent, or even have an existence in man, but for that inti-
mate though inscrutable connexion, and absolute dependence
of the soul, on the existing state of healthy or unhealthy ma-
terial organization? Surely it will not be contended that the
soul is insane or idiotic, because of apparently imperfect
actions through imperfect and diseased organs! Nor can it
be supposed to be restored to henlth and original perfection,
without the prc,·ious recovery of those organs. It is true we
cannot at all times t1cmonstrate the lesion of those organs; but
are our imperfect observations, (so greatly owing to the im-
perfection of the senses themschcs,) to be viewed as conclu-
sive in opposition to f.'lcts of daily occurrence, and sufficient
of themselves to establish the truth of the great and funda-
mental principles of phrenology? To myself, at least, it ap-
pears that every f<:tct we arc acquainted with, relating to the
physiology and pathology of the bmin, if properly appreciated,
can but tend to add conviction of its truth; fcw it is suffir-iently
obvious that the total, or partial destruction, or merely tem-
pomry suspension, of the intellectual fhculties from lesions of
the brain, admit of no ,explanation that dol's not embrace the
connex1on and dependence of tbose faeultics in their opem-
tions with the organization of that viscus ! Any other view
81
0
~ the subject would impel us to conclude, that the soul con-
sists of separate parts, and that it is capable of subdivision; so
tha~ th~ monomaniac will have that portion of the soul insane,
wh~ch Is c~nncctcd with the organ through which it exerts its
actl~n, w~ulst all the remaining portion of the soul may yet
contmue In a healthy state :-if the aberration of the individual
extends to n second fimction or operation, a second portion of
the soul must then hare become deranged, and thus onwards,
ad infmitum, to the highest rnngc of perfect madness of all the
separate and independent parts of this invisible and mysterious
associate of the material organization ! But this must surely
be the case, if the doctrine of phrenology is false, which
assigns locality to organs by which alone the functions of the
soul arc externally perceived. Can we hesitate then to admit
the possibility, the probability-nay, l would add the certainty,
that malformation, or temporary disease of those organs that
evince irregularity, do thereby modiry or distort the regular
train of mental ratiocination, whilst yet the soul is in its ac-
cu~tomed health'! The hypochondriac, who, standing in a
corner, imagines himself to be a dock, and swings his arm to-
and-fro as its pendulum, whilst, clllck, cluck, cluck, he gives
out for its ticking :-The one who thinks his legs are glass,
and carefully guards them from the slightest blow :-with
hundreds of a like description, that nrc frequent in the records
of medicine; all these are nevertheless, on other subjects per-
fectly rational, and argue as correctly as their neighbours and
associates. Is the soul here, pnrtinlly deranged, by which
such strange vagaries may be thoroughly elucidated, without
any reference to orrrnnic lesion of some part, by which the func-
tio~s are rendered imperfect? If so, we must classify the in-
sane as mono-manincs-bi-mnnincs-tri-rnaniacs, &c. accord-
ing to the number of the h'lculties thus erroneously dcYeloping
their actions! The Almighty is omnipresent throughout the
macro-cosm of the Universc; whilst lie has afiorded to the soul
82
an omnipresence in the m-icro-cosm of man! the most. wonder-
ful work of His crenti\'c power, with n state of organization,
through which its opE'rntions nrc ef1ccted; perfect, if those
organs are in a perfect £tate, but defective, if under the in·
fiuence of malformation or disease.*
I may perhaps strengthen all the preceding views in favour
of Phrenology, by a familiar and domestic truth. It may be
affirmed, that Divine Intelligence shines no where more emi·
nently conspicuous, than in the fact, that the powers of the
mind exactly quadrate with the state and age of man.t In
infancy, which requires the care and attention of parental
affection, the low ebb of the mental powers, calls for those
exertions in its behalf, which the imperfect state of its own
organs is incapable of effecting. The soul of an infant con·
sidered in the abstract, and as unconnected with its corporeal
mansion, must be regarded as equally perfect and complete, as
that of the most accomplished adult; but could it be equally
* These truths were in a certain extent avowed by ancient philoso-
phers :-thus Socrates says, that while the soul is immersed in matter,
it staggers, strays, frets, and is giddy, like a man in drink. Plato's
Pltedon.
t Even our blessed Saviour, in assuming the form of man, became
subject to the laws of mental and corporeal improvement as established
by nature; for \Ye learn from St. Luke, ii. 52-that" Jesus increased
in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man."
Aristotle asks, " Cur Seniores amplius mente valeamus ?" and he
replies as follows, "Quia natura parens instrumenta nobis duo in.
seruit, l\1anum Corpori dedit, animo mentcm; c<Bter::e :::cienti::e, et
artes nostra opera sunt, mcntem ipsam opus esse natur::e fecundum
est. Ut igitur manu non jam inde ab ortu uti possumus, sed cum earn
absolvit natur::e, perfecitque procedcnte ::elate; ita mens non protinus,
sed in senectutc maxime nobis contingit, atque tunc prrecipue con-
summatur, et absolvitur. Acccdit vero posterior mens, quam manuum
facultas, quoniam mentis instrumcnta postcriora sunt, quam manuum,
est enim mentis instrumentum scientia." And Lactantius says:
"Animam crescere in pueris, vigere in juvcnibus, et in senibus minui."
83
active and efficient, in the imperfect and partially developed
state of the organs through whose channels its actions arc to
be effectiYc; some of the most de\inhtful sensations of the
0
human breast would be altogether wanting. Ilow could our
feelings be equally wrought upon by the inf.."lnt pledges of
affection, if the operations of the mind, in them, were perfect
as our own? The gradual unfolding of their faculties by the
progressive improvement of their corporeal organization, con-
stitutes, I apprehend, the powerful chain that binds the parent
so closely to his ofl~pring: for, we must admit, that a full and
perfect intellect at bit·th, would subvert, or annihilate that
peculiar and tender affection so natural from man, even in the
savage state, and not less po\verful in brutes, towards their
helpless progeny! The tie that connects us to our children at
the age of maturity, when the full development of their mental
powers places them on an equality with ourselves, is produced
assuredly, by a feeling~of a far different nature from that
which their infant state elicits; and it is from this very cir-
cumstance, I think, that children can never experience the
same peculiar sensations for the parent, which the latter feels
for tlwm.
Before I bring this ess::~y to a close, I will venture to add to
it a fact, which, although apparently more immediately con-
nected with physiognomy, (a branch, howeyer, of phrenology,)
is, if well founded, not undeserving of consideration, and of
more extensive observation. It is now upwards of'il< forty
*Tho position here assumed, which I thought was altogether my
own, I have latterly found to have been indire.ctly ad\•crted to, in a
· \ 'Orlr by G·1,;par a llcics Franco, pnnted at Brussels 1G41
very cunous ~ ~, ~- · , · ,
F 1 3!)!) entitled" Elysius Jncundorum Qu:rstionum Campus," &c.
o. P· ' . . '1 .
One of tho questions considered, is upon the subJeCt of the s1:01 anty
f d llullle rous exam)Jics arc <riven, many of great mtercst,
0 persons-an · · "' . . .
d d
.· d from ancient and modern wnters; rcterrmg to some of
an euve . . d 1· ·
these, he thus expresses him;:;clf: "Nee mmus nuraudum, quo , u m-
84
years since the idea presented itself to me, owing to some ac·
cidcntal circumstance, nnd since that time, I have confirmed it
satisfactorily to myself, by several hundred instances. I have
repeatedly mentioned it to many friends and acquaintances,
who haye also coincided in the opinion, from their own sub·
sequent observations.
The fact I wish to establish, is, that whenever the general
physiognomy of t\vo individuals is the same, that is, when,
according to common observation, two persons are said to
resemble each other, (in face) or to be alike; so, in the same
degt·ce or extent of resemblance, will their voices be found t0
be the same; so that, if in the dark, I should hear the voice of
an individual that resembled the voice of another person with
whom I was acquainted, I should have no difficulty in affirm-
ing, that on seeing his face, I should find a resemblance also
in it, to that of the other. So, in like manner, should I see an
unknown person, in the most distant place, whose countenance
and features resembled those of a \veil known friend or acquaint-
ance, I would venture to affirm at once, that in voice, he would
likewise resemble him. Could we therefore be assured of the
likeness of the busts and portraits of ancient heroes, kings,
philosophers and othet· great men that have reached us, and
quibus tanta intervenit similitudo, ut nee vultu, t•oce, loquela, corpore,
actionibus, aut exercitiis discerni possint, moribus quoque et animi
affectibus etiam cohrereant; qure cnim inter se simi!ia adeosunt, efldem
temperie, aut saltern parcm distante ita convcniunt, ut vitiis aut vir-
tutibus eisdcm insigniantur," &c.-with more to the like effect, by
which it will be seen, that the views taken on the subject, are far
more extended than I had ventured to adopt. They serve, however,
to substantiate my more limited proposition, It is but Ia tely that I
have met with the facts to which I thus allude. I may add, that the
author amidst his numerous references, adds one from Virgil, 8th
lEneid-on Evander recognising lEneas, from the similarity of voice
and face to his father Anchises.
" Et vocmn Anchisre magni, vultusque recordor !"
85
find individuals of · '1 r: t · h . r: •
srm1 ar 1ea ures, we mra t pnma liiCie re-
• • 0 ' '
coamse In the' · h · · .
o 1r VOices, t e voices of the1r precursors.·'"
N~ doubt at first sight, this will be deemed extravagant, and
devoid of foundation; but the fuct is, thut it has a foundation
in the organization of the pnrts themselves, and must, there-
fore, be strictly true. To what shall we nscriLe the basi.<;
of a similar set of features in different individuals of the past
or present times 1 Evidently, the only sure and fixed basi:-:.
must be the bony fabric of the face and fuuces. If the muscles
and covering of those bones are not dissimilarly located or
attached; in other words, if the various parts, through \\·hich
the air emitted from the lungs iu speech, are anatomically alike
in both, the appearance externally must nece~sarily upproxi-
*The following extracts are in a measure corroborative of this
opinion. The first is from "Strang's Germany in 1831 ;" the latter,
from the Ledger of March 22d, 1845-extracted from the London
Morning Herald:
11
METTERNICu.-On the first glimpse which I had of the Austrian
Prime Minister, I fancied I beheld the Duke of \\'ellington; but 011
a second look I diocoverfld that his face was fuller and much less sharp
and haggard than that of the hero of Waterloo. There is, however,
a very singular resemblance in the great lines and character of their
faces. The contour of the visage is the same in each; the expression
about the mouth is not unlike; while the sclf.complacence which
plays on both countenances, indicating a feeling of conscious supe-
riority, is remarkably si111ilar. \Vith so near a resewblance of face,
perhaps it is not remarkable that their political feeling should be so
much akin; and if we may be permitted to quote Lavatcr as an au-
thority, it is not at all surprising to find that features which are hourly
affected with the sentiment that mankind ought still to be ruled by
the same enrrine which ambition, bigotry, and heartlessness invented,
should come""w1thin the prescribed limits of the similarity which that
ingenious but fanciful author assigns to brother characters-:·
~~.Miss Cushman, who played Bianca., is a tall, commandmg young
lady, having a fine stage figure. The expression of her face is curious;
it reminds one of .Macready; a suggestion still further strengthened
by the tones of her voice, and frequently by her mode of speech."
lJ
8G
mate in each, unless prevented by some accidental cause. flut,
since a similarity of extern~] configuration affords the strongest
reason for concluding that the internal and unseen parts nrc
equally similar in formation and structure; the air passing
through channels of like configuration in the various passages
of the mouth and fauces, must necessarily afford a sin1ilar
sound, and if employed in speech, will render that alike in
both cases, just ns in two musical instruments of the same
construction, attuned to the same pitch. \Vithout attempting
further explanation, I must repeat my firm conviction of the
truth of my assertion; I hnvc verified it too often to entertain
the slightest doubt upon the subject, ·and submit it to the further
attention of my readers. At the same time, I must request them
to remember, that, as all persons do not discover resemblances
with eqnal facility, they must not be discouraged from the
pursuit, if this should be their case. No doubt, every person
has at times been much surprised, that he has seen at once a
striking likeness in a portrait, to the individual for whom it was
painted, whilst others around, as intimately acquainted with that
individual, shaii deny its having any resemblance. Now, for
such diversity of opinion there surely must be some adequate ex-
planation; and I imagine this to be, its dependance greatly, if
not entirely, on the accidental circumstance of the one, at the
first glance at the portrait being promptly impressed uy one or
more features that have been happily and faithfillly traced by the
artist, whilst the others, unfortunately striking on a feature not
accurately given, or altogether erroneous, will never see the
face but under this f.c1.lse aspect, the first impression will always
predominate; that is, the erroneous features will invariably
stand forth in bold relief; whilst the exact reverse attends the
other, who will invariably behold those, by which the likeness
was first established in his mind. If every feature was cor-
rectly given, there could be no second opinion respecting the
case, for all would see the painting uniformly. Such I appre-
87
hend rnay be the c · h b · ·
. . ase m t e n ave not1ced physJOrmomical
assoctatJOn of · d r
0
votce an 1eature, for althouah a stronrr resem-
blance may exist between two persons, yet ;till, individual fea-
tures may va y I· 1 ·11
r ' w 11c 1 Wl create doubts as to likcnes~, in
those who do not at first attach themselves to those feutureo
that are similar.*
In co.nclusion, I must remark, that w fur from the science
of phrenology being a newly discovered one, it is, on the con-
trary, one of the most ancient. I have in my possC'ssion a
very curious old quarto volume, printed in 1508, entitled" l\lar-
garita Philosophica"-a kind of Encyclopedia, embracing in
question and answer, between the master and his pupil, every
science of the day, from the letters in the horn Look, up to
theology and metaphysics. Among the singular engravings
with which it abounds is one of a human head or skull, on
which are regularly depicted by metes and boundaries, the
then acknowledged faculties of the mind, in their respective
localities, with a precision not unworthy of Gall or Spurzheim.
\Vel! did Solomon declare that there is " nothing new undet·
the sun." Doubtless the science of phrenology existed in the
distant epoch of the Jewish monarch, although its principles
had not been fully elucidated. It is, however, perfectly demon-
stl'able, that, neither before nor since the time of Solomon,
have the organs of amativeness and of philoprogenitiveness
exhibited a stronger development than in his brain; for we
have scriptural assurance, that this illustrious and 1tisest of
monarchs, had no less than seven hundred wives and three
hundred concubines! His conscience on those points must
have had but a· feeble development!
*Who has not discovered likenesses to mar., brutes, castles, &c., in
the polished variegated slabs of our marble mantels, wh_ich others can-
not a] ways readily detect; whilst various figures of~ dlffe~ent _chara~­
ter arc detected in the same? Each will, in all future mvestig~tJOn, still
· tho appearances which his imarrination had first mvented.
rccogmse ~
88
About a century after the work above mentioned, nppeared
a treatise by J. Hcurnius, a medical writer of very superior
merit, entitled "De morbis qui in singulis partibus humani
capitis in~idere consueverunt." At ch. x. p. 100 of this work,
speaking of phrenitis and its various forms, he says "Secundo,
diflerunt phrenitides loco afiecto: nam vel totum cerebrum, vel
ejns pars occupata est. Si pars cerebri, ea erit antica, postica,
vel media. Scio !tic disputm·i, utrum principes f:'lcultatcs
capitis, sedes in cerebro habcant varias, necne," &c.; from
which it is evident, that the doctrine of localities was then a
:mbjcct of discussion. It is, however, so rational, that it can
scarcely be a source of wonder, to find that even centuries be-
fore that period, the same opinion had met with supporters.
Accordingly we learn that Galen, (the most renowned of the
medical profession in any age, either ancient or modern,) who
flourished about 200 years after our Saviour, had promulgated
and sustained a similar doctrine. Heurnius refers us in proof
of this, to Aph: 27 of 1st Prorrhetics; and to his 4th book,
de Locis aflectis, in which he says, that when the brain is
affected, "apud anticos ventres suos laedi imagint.tionem: sin
illi medios secum ventriculos trahant, perverti et cogitationem."
He elsewhere inquires, why phrenitis has such varied symp-
toms; anJ why, at one time, the imagination, at another,
thought or memory shall be defective? "Hoc evenit (says
he) ex humoris wptu ab una in aliam cerebri partem: itaque
hoc fieri ex variarum cereb1·i mansionum irritatione, et altcra-
tione pn:egrandi, uncle successiva opera ipuvToc~Tt;><;~, '1'/'EV()VI"~'
et fMflf-t()VEtJTtx~, id est facultaturn apprehendendi, judicandi, et
memorandi." Further on, we find, "Si principes facultntcs
qum in cerebro habitant, varias mansiones occupant, igitur
unus idemque homo potcrit ingeniosus esse, vique imaginandi
excellere, et etiam memorandi potentia alios ante-ire: at ple-
rumque ingeniosi immemores sunt: quin non raro rr.emoria
valide exsplendescente, torpescit imaginatio," &c.-And in
89
" Galeni, de Ilippoc : et Plat: decretis, Lib. 5. ch. 4. we find
the following: "Neque in una tantum animre parte, nequc in
una facultate ct judicia et affectus existere, ut Chrysippus
sentit; sed, plures esse diversasquc genere tum facultates, tum
partes."* \Ve need not to quote filrther; although we might
abundantly, for the writings of Galen prove the subject to
have been a favourite with him. It wanted merely a name to
establish its scientific standing; and [ have merely adduced
the above few extracts, to prove that phrenology is not now
for the first time illustrated, but that it reaches back through
sixteen centuries, if not to tl1e time of Hippocrates, who lived
nearly 400 years before Galen.
I have now completed the object I haJ in view, of main-
taining the firm belief I have long had of the truth of the great
outlines and fundamental principles of phrenology, a belief
unalloyed, I trust, by any slavish attachment to the vagaries to
which it may h3ve given rise. It is a science, which, though
of long standing, as [ have demonstrated, is nevertheless still
in its infancy, and will probably so continue, until augmented
elucidation shall have established a chain of facts so powerful,
as to enforce a general opinion, that, so far from its considera-
tion leading to infiJclity or atheism, as many have affirmed,
on the contrary it tends to magnify the power of the Deity in
the manifestation of that part of His works, that is to survive
" the wreck of matter and the crush of worlds!"
*"Quid enirn rari habet phrcnitis, quid admirationis? An quod
prmcipuam animm function em, rationcm inqnam, et hominis sacrarium
vitict et perturbet?-L\Iinimc quidem; quia phrenitis rutionern pro-
prie ~on lredit, sed illius organum turbat ct vitiat ac optimam illius
temperiem corrumpit, unde defectu instrumenti rationi adveuit no-
cumentum."-Campus Elysius, p. 742.
THE .1-!ND.
