{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__estlin___remarks_on_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Remarks On Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
REMARKS_
ON
MESMERISM,
IN 1845,
BY
J. B. ESTLIN, F.L.S.
BEING A PORTION OF THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS,
DELIVERED AT TEE FOURTH ANNUAL MEETING
OF THE BATH AND BRISTOL BRANCH OF TEE PRO-
VINCIAL MEDICAL AND SURGICAL ASSOCIATION,
HELD AT BRISTOL, JUNE 27, 1845.
LONDON:
JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCES STREET, SOHO.
SOLD ALSO BY H. C. EVANS, BRISTOL ; COLLINGS,
BATH ; AND AT WILLIAMS'S LIBRARY, CHELTENHAM.
1845.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
REMARKS
MESMERISM,
I N 1845,
BY
J. B. ESTLIN, F.L.S.
BEING A PORTION OF THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS,
DELIVERED AT THE FOURTH ANNUAL MEETING
OF THE BATH AND BRISTOL BRANCH OF THE PRO-
VINCIAL MEDICAL AND SURGICAL ASSOCIATION,
HELD AT BRISTOL, JUNE 27, 1845.
LONDON:
JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCES STREET, SOHO.
SOLD ALSO BY H. C. EVANS, BRISTOL ; COLLINGS,
BATH ; AND AT WILLIAMS'S LIBRARY, CHELTENHAM.
1845.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
1.t
WOOD LIBRARY-MUSEUM
OF ANESTHESIOLOGY
PREFACE.
In the Summer of 1843, lectures were
delivered in Bristol upon Mesmerism, when
the " higher phenomena" of this so-called
science were exhibited by a young woman,
the travelling companion of the lecturer; her
testimony, however, as an honest and dis-
interested example of the truths she appeared
on the platform to exhibit, was of the most
unsatisfactory character. As is usual on
these occasions, many of the audience,
amused and astonished with what they heard
and saw, left the theatre fully convinced that
all the lecturer said, and all the girl per-
formed, was entitled to their implicit belief;
and, as is also usual at Mesmeric exhibitions,
the attempts made by medical men or others
to test the accuracy of the experiments, were
received with little favour by the generality
of those who witnessed the exhibition. In
addition to these public lectures, a class
was proposed for the purpose of " inves-
tigating the phenomena of Mesmerism,"
under the auspices of the lecturer and
his Clairvoyante, and it was understood that
several medical men of this city had con-
sented to join it. The Annual Meeting of
the Bath and Bristol Branch of the Provincial
Medical and Surgical Association was held
in Bristol just as this class was in the course
of formation, and I availed myself of the
occasion to read an Address, subsequently
published,* counselling my medical brethren
not to give the sanction of their names to
the Mesmeric proceedings that were then
going forward, under the firm belief that they
would lower their dignity, and probably
diminish their usefulness by so doing. From
the handbills subsequently published by the
lecturer, I should conclude that my appeal
had not been unsuccessful. Not one medical
man, I believe, attended the class.
I have not been an unobservant spectator
of what has been going forward in respect
* An Address to the Members of the Medical Profession
of Bristol and Bath, on Mesmerism. Renshaw, London;
HI. C. Evans, Bristol.
iv PREFACE.
PIREFACE.
to Mesmerism in this country during the last
six or seven years. I have seen the experi-
ments of Dupotet and others, and, especially
during the two last years, I have read much
on the subject, and have had a peculiarly
favourable opportunity of witnessing Mes-
meric experiments.
In the following Address, I have desired
to allow to the Mesmerists as great an amount
of influence from their manipulations upon
their patients as satisfactory evidence appears
to warrant. I must, however, declare my
belief, that the more the evidence which is
adduced to prove even the simplest pheno-
mena of Mesmerism (as artificial sleep) is
scrutinized, the fewer do the instances appear
where there is clear proof of the absence of
all imposture. It is not I think either unrea-
sonable or uncharitable to suspect deceit in
all cases where the professors of Mesmerism
gain money by their exhibitions, and it does
not require much knowledge of the human
mind or of the human: character to be aware
that, where pecuniary considerations could
have no influence, a love of notoriety, and other
motives of this kind, from which neither the
educated nor uneducated are exempt, may
lead to a line of conduct not strictly in
accordance with truth and sincerity. A dis-
tinguished writer, (whose opinion upon a
psychological subject would carry much weight
with it, were I at liberty to mention his name,)
observed, "When I see a gentleman," (a
man of education and of honour, who would
scorn to be guilty of any imposition,) " when
I see a gentleman mesmerised, and exhibit-
ing Clairvoyance, then I will believe in it."
The remark is pertinent, as designating by
contrast the sex and class of persons who
furnish by far the principal part of the evi-
dence in support of the more extraordinary
pretensions of Mesmerism.
Since the delivery of this Address, (its
publication has been delayed by the severe
illness of the writer,) Dr. Forbes has com-
municated to the London liedieal Gazette,
of July 18th, a report of his "Second search
for Clairvoyance," and has satisfactorily
proved that the pretensions of the French
Adolphe to clairvoyant powers were as
Vi PREFACE.
unfounded as those of his brother Alexis.
Dr. Forbes in the same publication has most
properly held up to public reprobation the
disgusting pretensions of a Miss Von G6nnern,
a German professional Mesmerist.
To many the detection of the deception
of itinerant Mesmerists will appear a work
of supererogation, and there are numerous
physicians of far inferior note to Dr. Forbes
who would shrink from having their names
connected with the legerdemain performances
which he has so thoroughly exposed. The
public, however, cannot but feel under much
obligation to one holding the high rank
among medical men of this country which
Dr. Forbes occupies, for condescending to
stamp with the authority of his name the
detection of the impostures he witnessed.
The course which he has taken in "investi-
gating Mlesmerism" may perhaps somewhat
check the violence with which the Mesmerists
call upon the medical profession to undertake
this task, and temper the reproaches lavished
upon its members for refusing to obey their sum-
mons. It
is too obvious to admit of any doubt,
vil
PREFACE.
Viii PREFACE.
that as long asthe so-called science is neglected
by our profession, it can never make much
progress in public favour. The members
of the Medical Profession in this kingdom
number not fewer, probably, than 30,000:
yet, in Ireland or Scotland what name of any
note has ever been heard of as connected
with Mesmerism ? In England how insig-
nificant is their number 1*
* The Medical Gazetteof this day's date (Aug. 15) contains
another proof of Dr. Forbes's indefatigable zeal in detecting
and exposing the trickeries of clairvoyants. The narrative
is most amusing. Its chief interest, however, does not con-
sist in the discovery of the imposition of an audacious boy,
who went down upon his knees to acknowledge and beg par-
don for his deceit, but in the illustration afforded of the
degree in which a belief in Mesmerism appears to obscure the
reasoning powers of educated and thoroughly respectable
persons; the present instance being that of a gentleman whose
professional duties especially demand acumen in the careful
sifting of evidence. Truly is it remarked to me, in a letter
from a clerical friend, well known in the literary world,-
" There seems to be a sort of fanatical tendency among the
disciples of Mesmerism, incapacitating even strong minds
for sound observation and estimate of evidence."
It certainly, however, requires a great exercise of charity
not to suspect that in some instances, where deception of the
most palpable nature has been completely exposed, a reluc-
tance to believe and admit that they have been grossly
imposed upon by those in whom they placed confidence, must
have an influence in occasioning the extraordinary tenacity
of Mesmerists to the opinions they have so confidently
maintained.
PREFACE. 1X
I expect little favour from the Mesmerists,
or from a rather numerous class of philosophic
thinkers of the present day, in referring to
an a priori argument against the duty of
obeying the call to investigate the claims of
Mesmerism, while the evidence in its favour,
which we as yet possess, is of such very small
amount.
Firmly convinced from historical and other
evidence that Christianity originates in a
Divine Revelation--holding the old-fashioned
and un-German notion that the Divine mis-
sion of our Saviour was proved by the
miracles he performed, I consider that any
new science claiming a power of exhibiting
manifestations very little different from what
I believe to be miraculous acts on the part
of Christ and his Apostles, ought to be sup-
ported by a vastly greater weight of evidence
than Mesmerism can boast of, to render it
worthy of any serious consideration.
Whatever be the opinion of the Neologists
and other biblical critics as to the possibility
that future investigations may divest the turn-
ing of water into wine at the marriage feast at
X PREFACE.
Cana of its miraculous character, I am little
induced to doubt the truth of the Scripture
narrative, or to investigate what may be
thought a mode of explaining it, because a
Mesmeriser and a servant girl iu Northumber-
land profess to have produced a very similar
phenomenon.
The following "Remarks" were published
in the Provincial Medical and Surgical
Journal of the 13th instant, but as that
periodical is confined chiefly to the members
of the medical profession, I have had a small
edition of the article printed for more general
circulation.
J. B. E.
Bristol, August 15, 1845.
REMARKS ON MESMERISM,
IN 1895.
In referring to mesmerism, I always feel an apology
to be necessary for intruding the subject upon
our medical meetings. When our anniversary was
held in this city two years ago I was allowed to
read an address exclusively upon animal magnetism.
Local circumstances induced me at that time to bring
the subject before the Society, and I had every reason
for believing that a useful result ensued. The view
then taken of mesmerism, and the recommendation to
my brethren to refrain from giving their countenance
to the performances of itinerant mesmerisers who were
at that time lecturing throughout the country, was not
allowed to escape the no very measured animadversions
of one of the periodicals regarded as the organ of the
mesmerists and the phrenologists,-the Zoist ;-my
fellow-sufferers under this infliction being Dr. Forbes
and Dr. James Johnson, in whose company I had no
cause to be ashamed of my position.
In addition, however, to the rebuke given for the
views contained in that address, it was stated that the
author of it had subsequently changed his opinions.
I hope then I may be allowed the present opportunity
12
of making a few more remarks upon mesmerism, and
of stating, that two years of increased attention to
the subject, both by reading and observation, have only
tended to confirnm the sentiments I then took the
liberty of expressing.
Considering how numerous the lecturers upon mes-
merism are who have been perambulatingthe country,
the practised performers who illustrate the pretensions
of the art, the amusing and wonderful character of
their exhibitions, and the undeniable dislike of the
public generally to be undeceived when their wonder
and curiosity are excited, mesmerism is certainly
making but slow progress, and so long as medical men
continue opposed to it, it never can gain but a very
limited advance.
A work, however, in support of " Human Mag-
netism," as he terms it, has made its appearance since
we last met from thile
pen of an accomplished and
highly respectable member of the profession and of
our Association, Mr. Newnham, of Farnham in
Surrey. That such a defence of the most incredible
facts of mesmerism should be produced by a person
who had been a disbeliever about twelve months before,
may be considered as one of those wonders which are
so intimately connected with this curious subject.
A really philosophic mind would require, one would
suppose, a long period of rigid examination to
obtain conviction of the reality of such astonishing
facts as Mr. Newnham announces !
I can do little more than allude to Mr. Newnham's
work at this time ; it will not, I think, convert many
medical readers to its views. My object in referring
to it is, because the writer is one of our own body, and
strongly censures his brethren for not extending to
13
mesmerism more of their patronage. What claim,
however, has Mr. Newnham to the confidence of his
brethren in the soundness of his judgment, when he
gravely tells us such a story as the following, which is
by no means one of the most wonderful in which he
declares his firm belief? The subject was a girl, con-
sidered as a clairvoyante somnambulist; her master,
Mr. Poulton, of the Alton Paper Mills.
.When mesmerised, and requested to travel men.
tally to the house of Mr. Newnham, at Farnham, she
professed to do so, ordered
"
George to put the ponies
to," and pointed out many objects on the road. Arrived
at Mr. Newnham's house she described the situation
of his library, the shape of the tables in it, the position
of, and view from, the windows, and the number of
pictures in the room. She then described the objects
in the landscape of one of the pictures, admired the
frame of another, (which Mr. Newnham said was a very
handsome one,) and
"
pronounced the subject to be a
portrait,but whether of a man, or woman, she could
not tell ; it looked like a man, but was dressed like a
woman." " It was, in fact," says Mr. Newnham,
" a portrait of the Bishop of Winchester, in his robes
as Prelate of the Order of the Garter." This girl Mr.
Newnham declares had never been in the town of
Farnham in her life, and her mesmeriser was never at
Mr. Newnham's house.
Now, it would surely be the duty of any medical
man who was satisfied that the remedial means he was
advocating could, under any conditions of the human
frame, produce such an astounding fact as this, to
verify it beyond all possibility of doubt, by repeated
experiment, under all conceivable variety of circum-
stances, and with every possible publicity. This case
14
is sufficient to exemplify the facility with which
believers in mesmerism give credence to extraordinary
phenomena themselves, and expect from others a
similar credulity. The story is mentioned incidentally
by Mr. Newnham as nothing out of the common, and
he simply asks in reference to it, Whatgood can arise
from producing these effects of mesmerism ? Others
would be more disposed to ask, What truth there was
in such a marvellous narrative ? Mr. Newnham, as a
philosopher, has no right to dismiss such a case with
a " cui bono." It is either all true or all false : con-
vinced as Mr. Newnham is of the former, he was bound
to make the truth apparent to all the world before he
could expect confidence in his judgment on any other
mesmeric matter. But with the little evidence he
gives, who is there that does not find it easier to
believe that Mr. Newnham has been deceived, than that
a power so contrary to the general judgment and
experience of mankind as to the laws which regulate
the acts and faculties of the human mind, should exist
in this instance ? Surely without denying the possibility
of such a stupendous gift as is claimed for this unedu-
cated girl, it is more rational, with the superficial
evidence Mr. Newnham affords, to believe that she had
by some channel unknown to him, heard about his
study and pictures, than that the information was
revealed to her in the mysterious manner supposed by
him.
Lord Shrewsbury states, that in 1841, hliesaw at the
village of Caldaro, in Italy, a young woman named
Maria Mirl, in a state of ecstacy, whose hands, feet,
and side, had marks called stigmata, upon those parts
where wounds were inflicted upon Christ while on the
cross, from which drops of clear blood frequently
15
flowed on Thursday evenings, and on Fridays; that
while the Sacrament passed through the town, she
marked its progress by turning towards it "as the
needle turns to the pole," and when it came under her
window, "she was instantaneously lifted off her bed
and rested only on the point of the feet."
He also describes another young woman he visited
in the Tyrol, called the Addolorata, of the name of
Domenica Lazzari, whose forehead was marked as with
a crown of thorns, covering the face with blood.
Occasionally blood also flowed from her hands and
feet: from the wounds in the feet it ran upwards
to the toes while she lay in bed, contrary to the laws
of gravity, or as it would have done had she been
suspended to a cross with her feet downwards!
Now, these remarkable facts are fully as well authen-
ticated as Mr. Newnham's, and the reasons which
would lead us to suspect any deception on the part of
the Italian young women, would apply with equal
force to the spiritual visitant of Mr. Newnham's
library.
With so marvellous a gift as that possessed by Mr.
Newnham's clairvoyante, it must be mortifying to him
that the labouring mountain produced such a very
ridiculous mouse as the supernatural discovery of the
picture of a man dressed like a woman! It is indeed
to be lamented, that the operation of powers unheard
of since the Apostolic age, should be confined to such
ignoble performances as narrating the contents of a
distant room, finding out a word purposely written
in large characters and inclosed in an envelope, and
playing at cards with the eyes closed, and similar
miracles. It is well remarked by the writer of an
able article in Dr. Forbes' Journal, in respect to clair-
16
voyants, that "instead of settling for ever, as they
might easily do, all our doubts and difficulties in
astronomy, geology, chemistry, and physiology, instead
of unfolding the secrets of Cabinets, of Kings, and
Prime-Ministers, these provoking people will persist in
putting us off with such facts as counting the pictures in
our dining-rooms, describing the colour of night-caps
and doublets, and laboriously mis-spelling words
within crumpled letters."
It does not appear that anything has occurred of
late more than formerly, to demand from medical men
what is called " an investigationinto the phenomena of
mesmerism." Without any prominence or activity
on our part in such investigations, facts quite suffi-
cient to enable us to form a dispassionate judgment
are continually developing themselves to our view.
Our non-professional friends exclaim, " Why not
mesmerise your patients before subjecting them to a
painful operation?" It is a sufficient answer to such
an inquiry that the success of the practice, as hitherto
detailed, gives us no encouragement to try it. No one
can deny that mesmerisers are very numerous; that
they are most anxious to prove they can produce insen-
sibility to pain; that opportunities are hourly pre-
sented to them of making experiments; that no doubt
can exist that such facilities are not neglected; and,
certainly, that the practitioners of the art have no
backwardness in communicating to the public any
result favourable to their system. Yet what is the
amount of all that has been done in this country?
Two amputations of the leg are said to have taken
place without being much felt by the patients; teeth
have been drawn; the operation for the cure of squint-
ing, and other minor surgical operations, have been
17
performed without giving pain. Admitting the entire
correctness of these latter statements, they are not
entitled to much attention as facts in mesmerism.
Operations, borne with fortitude, and described as
almost painless, are of daily occurrence; and it is not
improbable that in some few individuals the drowsi-
ness, or diminished consciousness, that may be arti-
ficially induced on their nervous system, together with
a firm conviction that mesmerism has the power of
destroying sensibility, may render some persons indif-
ferent to the pain of such operations. But with regard
to more severe ones, instances of their being performed
without suffering, must be vastly multiplied before
any practical benefit can accrue. The subjects of them
must be persons whose integrity, whose clearness of
judgment, whose inability to bear pain without the
ordinary expression of suffering, have been fully ascer-
tained.
One of the cases of amputation above referred to,
was that published by Dr. Elliotson, and is considered
by many who are not friendly to mesmerism, to have
withstood a fair scrutiny.
Usually, however, it is the fact, that the more these
mesmeric cases are investigated, the less satisfactory do
they appear; and that such is the fate of the other
instance of amputation, (performed in the Leicester
Infirmary, in August, 1844,) is, I think, proved by
printed documents, as well as by private information
which has come to my knowledge. The mesmeriser
in this case was Mr. Hollings, the surgeon Mr.
Toswill, and the patient a young woman in the Infir-
mary, who, it was affirmed, afforded a good example of
the effects of mesmerism in rendering the body insen-
sible to pain.
18
In opposition, however, to this statement, Dr. Shaw,
physician to the Infirmary, who was present on the
occasion, says in a letter to the Editor of the Leicester
Chronicleof September 7, 1844, "The patient unques-
tionably exhibited strong marks of sensibility to pain
during the operation. In fact, I do not consider that
it was borne with more fortitude than is frequently
displayed under equally trying circumstances, and
without any adventitious aid. At the same time it is
only justice to say, that the eyes were closed duringthe
whole time-the features scarcely disturbed."
Mr. Paget, surgeon to the Infirmary, who was also
present says, "During the operation there was a con-
siderable groaning, writhing, and an approach to
screaming. Indeed, I have seen those who, under
operations equally severe, have, without mesmerism,
given far less indications of pain, and but for the
after declaration of the patient, I should have con-
cluded that she had endured, with no very unusual
fortitude,the ordinary amount of suffering."
Dr. Toogood, of Bridgewater, laudably anxious to
ascertain the precise facts of this case, wrote to
Leicester for further information, and ulterior inves-
tigation still more diminished its value as supporting
the pretensions of mesmerism. It was ascertained
that the patient had, on a former trying occasion, while
under the control of mental influences, exhibited an
unusual power of bearing physical pain. Having been
pregnant, she denied her situation to the latest
moment of possible concealment, and at length gave
birth to a child without showing the least sense of
pain. The writer of this account, (whose authority
I have for making the statement,) also says in his
letter to Dr. Toogood, that Mr. Hollings, the mes-
19
meriser of this patient, "had had permission, and had
tried his art upon many other patients in the Leicester
Infirmary for three or four months, but without the
least results." The circumstances detailed must
diminish the credibility of such a witness as this young
woman; and render the example a very questionable
proof of the influence of mesmerism in enabling a
person to undergo a severe surgical operation without
feeling it.
But let us examine for one moment, what it is we
are asked to do when called upon, as a matter of pro-
fessional duty, to investigate mesmerism ? We are
required to exert the moral influence which our cha-
racters have given us over truthful, confiding, suscep-
tible minds, to experiment as to the extent in which
we can mislead and deceive them. This statement is
not too strong. Disbelievers, as I am happy to say most
of us are, in the existence of any such magnetic or mes-
meric principle as, it is maintained, may be transmitted
by the will or manipulations of one person to the
nervous system of another, we cannot conscientiously
affect to possess the power of calling it into operation.
And let me appeal to any intelligent physician or
surgeon who has been but a few years in practice-
more especially let me ask those who have been
extensively engaged for twenty or thirty years in the
important, I will say, sacredduties of our profession,
if they could not, were they inclined to abuse their
influence, select from their circle of patients several
nervous subjects, and especially females of hysterical
tendencies, whose confidence in the professional know-
ledge, the good principles, and good feelings of their
medical advisers is so great, that they might be made
the subjects of the most marked disturbance of the
20
nervous system, much beyond what is often effected
by mesmerism, if they were positively assured that
certain effects would follow the measures that were
about to be put in operation ? Can any one doubt for
a moment that hysteric and nervous symptoms, in some
of the most remarkable forms, might be thus called
into action ?
It is also impossible to read in some of the works on
mesmerism instructions given as to the mode of mani-
pulating the patients, without at once perceiving that
they are repugnant to delicacy and propriety, and
ought neither to be practised, nor submitted to, by
persons of refinement and correct feeling. When
more notice is taken of mesmerism by those opposed
to it than has yet been done, I trust some of the most
serious objections to the practice will be brought
before the public. Hitherto the professors of the art
have been very leniently dealt with by their opponents.
It is liable to objections much stronger than those
usually adduced against it. Medical men readily
comprehend its bad influences. Mr. Newnham states
in the last number of the Provincial Journal, that
"During the magnetic state there is a rise in man's
moral nature-that he becomes more alien from
wrong-more averse from impropriety-more conscious
of approaching evil-more sensitive to anything like
indecorum." Such was not the opinion of Lavoisier,
Dr. Franklin, and other eminent philosophers, as to
the mesmerism of 1785. They state that, "there are
parts of the operations which may readily be turned
to viciouspurposes: and in fact, immoralpracticeshave
already actually grown out of them."
I am still fully of opinion that the facts in mes-
merism as yet brought before the public, are not of
21
that unambiguous character, or of that respectable
nature, to demand the investigation of medical men.
It may be an amusement to some to expose the
trickery or false reasoning by which the art is sup-
ported, and the profession is obliged to those who do
so, especially as it is hardly possible to come in con-
tact with the subject without suffering some contami-
nation thereby; yet surely it ought not to be expected
that as a professional matter we should be required to
scrutinize the mode in which curious tricks are played
with cards, or the devices practised by persons pre-
tending to read with closed eyes.
We have, too, a right to object to the description of
persons who are the usual exhibitors of mesmeric
phenomena. They are not fair cases for the experi-
ments. Generally speaking, they are of a class below
our own, and have motives to practise deception by the
notice they obtain from persons in a station superi r
to their's, or from some worldly advantage. It is
well observed in the London and Edinburgh Monthly
Journalof Medical Science :--" No man or woman of
standing or character has ever exhibited the higher
phenomena of mesmerism; while clairvoyance, phreno-
mesmerism, community of taste, transposition of the
senses, the prophetic power, the instinct of reme-
dies, are all reserved for the boys of itinerant
lecturers, servant girls, and hysterical young ladies.
This is of itself sufficient to drive us to unbelief. Surely
among the innumerable persons experimented on, some
intelligent man or woman of known character, would
have exhibited the marvellous manifestations alluded
to. But where is there in all the records of mes-
merism an individual of this stamp ? When we hear of
any person of plain good sense, and high moral
22
character, displaying any of these higher manifesta-
tions, we shall still be glad to inquire and learn ; until
then we think we are fully entitled, from the facts
above stated, to refuse the smallest credenceto any of
these phenomena."
The system of taking young persons from the lower
ranks of society, bringing them upon platforms, and
into drawing-rooms, and making them go through
regular exhibitions for which they are both petted and
paid, is equally disgusting and reprehensible. If
animal magnetism be a fluid of so pervading a cha-
racter, and those susceptible of its influence so
numerous as they are affirmed to be, it would be more
respectable for ladies and gentlemen to confine their
performances among themselves, than to go into an
inferior rank of life for mesmeric associates.
The cures of disease effected by mesmerism, are
adduced as another reason why the subject should be
taken up by our profession; but in this argument
there is no validity, since recoveries from disease, quite
as remarkable as any resulting from mesmerism, can
be shown to have been occasioned by other methods
in which the imagination alone could have been
influenced.
It may be expected that I should particularly refer
to one instance of mesmeric cure that has taken place
within the last year, which has been noticed, not only
in our Medical Journals, but in nearly all the literary
periodicals of the country. I must, however, decline
the task. Though no circumstance has occurred for a
long time so calculated in my opinion to weaken the
faith of the public in mesmerism as this case in all
its bearings, I should rejoice, were it in my power'
to replace before it, and the medical details which
23
followed, the veil which has been so hastily with-
drawn.
Though the mesmerists are accustomed to complain
of the manner in which they are treated by their
opponents, the fact is, that very little is written
against them; and I am by no means clear, that the
better way of determining the merits of their art, is
not to leave the field quite open to them, giving them
an unchecked facility of writing and exhibiting what
they think desirable. I cannot, however, omit noticing
the very able exposition of the subject in " Black-
wood's Magazine" for February; the article upon
mesmerism, in the late number of the British and
Foreign Medical Review, and published also by Dr.
Forbes as a separate article, under the title of "Mes-
merism True, Mesmerism False;" also a very spirited
and instructive account of mesmerism in 1845, in the
May number of Dr. Cormack's London andEdinburgh
Monthly Journalof Medical Science, and a series of
letters that have just been published in the Lancet, by
Dr. Radclyffe Hall. Mr. Newnham, in his rather
voluminous contributions to the Provincial Journal,
censures these letters as giving an unfair representation
of the subject. Dr. Hall, however, maintains that the
absurdities of mesmerism are best displayed by shewing
the extreme inconsistency in the views and statements
to be found in the writings of those who are con-
sidered as authorities on the subject. The able
manner in which Dr. Forbes exposed the trickery of
the French clairvoyant Alexis, causing him, as it is
reported, precipitately to quit the country, entitles
him to the thanks of society at large.
We are bound also to express our acknowledgment
to Dr. Cardew and his coadjutors for their complete
24
detection and exposure of the imposture practised at
Bath, in November last; and I would direct attention
to a most amusing and thorough discovery of the
audacious tricks of four clairvoyants who were
exhibiting under a Mr. Donovan, at Leamington, in
the spring of this year, one of the performers having
been a professional mesmeric trickster for nearly two
years and a half. The circumstance is alluded to in
the article previously referred to in Dr. Cormack's
Journal, and is detailed in a letter to the Editor of the
Leamington Spa Courier,by Dr. Ross Leitch, to whom
the public are indebted for much judicious and manly
conduct on the occasion. The confession of these
four delinquents, who were adepts in their art, does
not disprove the truths of mesmerism, but it proves
how easily a set of worthless boys may impose upon
wealthy and well-meaning people; and warrants that
strict scrutiny into asserted facts of which mesmerists
so much complain. The able writer in Blackwood,
referring to mesmeric clairvoyance, truly says, the
advocates of it " challenge inquiry in print, but they
shrink from, or sink under experiment."
As a general summary of what may be deemed
admissible or inadmissible in mesmerism, in relation
to the evidence we at present possess, I would offer
the following propositions:-
1. That the manipulations employed by the operators
will, in many persons, produce a kind of sleep, varying
from an apparently deep sleep to the slightest kind of
somnolence, the torpor in general resembling more
what is seen in hysterical patients than natural sleep.
2. That individuals of nervous and hysterical tem-
perament are most susceptible of these impressions, but
that the majority of persons cannot be brought under
their influence.
25
3. That the patient has considerable power in either
inducing or resisting the disposition to sleep; as in
many females subject to hysteria the attacks are
severe, slight, or altogether concealed, in proportion
to the exertion of that moral control which the sub-
jects of the complaint, to a certain extent, possess.
4. That what is termed mesmeric sleep does not ex-
hibit itself in general on a first or second mesmerising,
but comes on after repeated trials; leading to the conclu-
sion, that, as training is often necessary, the condition
requisite for the production of the phenomena must
be pre-existing in the patient, and not communicable
by the mesmeriser.
5. That it is observable, that in places where public
mesmeric performances are first begun, persons are
found to be remarkably unsusceptible of the supposed
influence of mesmerism; but, that after a few indivi-
duals have exhibited the desired effects, the same
phenomena are easily produced upon others, justifying
the inference that imitation is operative here, as it is
well known to be in nervous affections among young
people.
6. That there is no reason for supposing that the
remarkable condition of the system termed somnambu-
lism, may not be brought on by those causes which
occasion artificial sleep, but that examples of this
induced somnambulism are very rare.
7. That the sleep produced by mesmerism does not
differ from that which appears spontaneously in nervous
persons.
8. That in consequence of the direct communication
with the brain of numerous nerves belonging to the
eyes and their appendages, it is very probable that
a constrained and unusual position of these organs for a
26
considerable time, may induce various degrees of
nervous somnolence, thus explaining Mr: Braid's
method of mesmerising without making passes, by
having the eyes long fixed on an object above them;
passes before them may, however, have a similar
influence.
9. That artificial sleep in no degree depends upon
any power, energy, or fluid, or physical influence
proceeding from the mesmeriser, but is occasioned
either by an impression upon the mind of the patient
that some effects will supervene, or by the effect upon
the nervous system caused by a fixed position or stare
of the eyes.
10. That it is probable some persons oppressed by
nervous sleep feel so confused as readily to believe
themselves in some extraordinary state, (especially
when previously convinced that an unusual condition
of the system is likely to ensue,) and in this state are
ready to follow any suggestion of their mesmeriser.
11. That no person can be mesmerised at a distance,
or without a knowledge or suspicion that something
has been done, or is about to be done, from which
effects are expected to follow.
12. That full credit may safely be given to any of
the cures reported to have been effected by mesmerism;
(as equally remarkable recoveries, where strong faith
exists in the remedies, and where the imagination is
impressed, may be adduced from medical records);
and where artificial sleep can be induced it is reasonable
to suppose that soothing effects would ensue.
13. That although it is probable the nervous drowsi-
ness produced artificially may be accompanied by a
degree of insensibility to external impressions, so that
pain is not acutely felt, (which is known to be the case
in natural attacks of coma,) yet the recorded instances
of severe operations having been performed without
exciting pain, are so rare, and the evidence in favour of
their reality so far from being entirely satisfactory,
that they do not encourage surgeons to expect any
benefit to their patients from this source. At the same
time, if patients who are to be submitted to operations
have faith in mesmerism and are desirous of trying it,
and persons are at hand who have no conscientious
scruples in practising it, there does not seem sufficient
reason for forbidding a trial of the experiment.
14. That what is called traction,(an apparent power
the mesmeriser has of drawing the patient after him,)
community of sensation, (the patient's feeling or tast-
ing from impressions made alone upon the sense of touch
and the tongue of the mesmeriser,) and obedience of
the patient to the will of the mesmeriser, may, in some
instances, arise without any intentional deceit on the
part of the patient, being induced while he is in a
semi-conscious state by the observed suggestions of the
mesmeriser; but that they never arise without some
suggestion, and that in the majority of cases the exhibi-
tions of these phenomena are willing imposture on the
part of the patients, the mesmerisers, if respectable
persons, being duped by the patients.
15. That "clairvoyance," in all its forms,-reading
without the use of the eyes or touch, "the instinct of
remedies," "mental travelling," "phreno-mesmerism,"
&c., &c., rest upon no satisfactory evidence. That in
the somnambulic state some individuals may have
their imaginations unnaturally excited, and may make
rather remarkable observations, or a disposition to
cunning or deceit which is known to attend this
nervous condition when not artifically induced may
28
exist, thus freeing them from the charge of intentional
duplicity; but that in the greater number of those
cases the phenomena are the result of wilful imposture,
sometimes on the part of the patient only, in others
of both mesmeriser and patient.
16. That ordinarily, persons exemplifying what are
called "
the higher phenomena of mesmerism," are
not of that description whose education, intelligence,
station in society, and moral character, would place
'them above the suspicion of deceiving themselves or
others, but are generally selected from those who
might be expected to derive a personal interest from
the exhibition, or who at least would be likely to have
their vanity gratified by the circumstances and society
into which they have been introduced.
17. That the assertion of mesmerisers, that it is
necessary to awaken their patients from the artificial
sleep by what is called demesmerising, and the
modes employed for this purpose, throw much sus-
picion upon the reality of the apparent sleep.
And lastly, that there is no occult influence possessed
by one animal body over another ; that mesmeric
effects follow from sensible impressions, by influencing
through the senses the moral and physical state of the
subject ; and that the imagination alone, if not always
equal to producing the effects, does so in some cases.
As regards the progress mesmerism has made
during the last year in this country, I am of opinion
that it has found its way into drawing-rooms more
than it had ever done before, but that the ground on
which alone it can have a permanent foundation in
public estimation, has been rather weakened than
rendered more substantial.
Gentlemen,--I have trespassed too long upon your
29
time in speaking of this subject, but it is one which
must occasionally be forced upon our attention, and
as I have had some opportunities of examining into it,
it occurred to me that the result of my observations,
if not interesting to the meeting, might not be altogether
devoid of use.
WORCESTER:
DEIGHTON & CO., PRINTERS, JOURNAL OFFICE.
®Deacidified
