{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__forbes___illustrations_of_modern_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Illustrations Of Modern Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
MODERN MESMERISM
FROM PERSONAL INVESTIGATION
MV
JOHN FORBES, VI. D. F.R.S.
E rHYlICIAN ro IIKR UinSIHOLa
¥
Aif m;. fro with the tno4rat truth ;
Nut ntorei utfr clipp'd, bat au.
A'. Lmr^ ir. 7.
LONDON:
JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCES STREET.
MUCCCXI.V.
'
HlSTO«lO*L
I
ILLUSTRATIONS
OP
MODERN MESMERISM.
C AND J ADLARD, PlilNTERM, IURTHOL<UI RW CL08R.
ILLUSTRATIONS
OF
MODERN MESMERISM
KRO.M I’EKSONAE IN VESTKJATION
BV
JOHN FORLES, M.l). F.R.S.
fiiYsiaAN lo iiBK Majesty's huibkiiulp.
All my IWportt with the iDod<>st truth ;
Nur mure, uor Hipp’d, but bo.
A*. Lmr^ i? 7
EON DON;
JOHN CllURCIllEE. IMUNCES STREET.
MUCCCXI.V.
PREFACE.
T tia\t; been so often requested —and from so many
quarters—to rej)rint the following Papers for genend
cireulation, that I liave, at length, consented to do so.
Wlierethey originally appeared, in the pjiges of a strictly
professioiud Jounial, (I lie London Medical Gazette,)
they were seen by few but medical readers; and my
friends are |)Ieased to tliiiik that they are calculated to
interest and to be of some scr\ ice to many persons of
other classes.
Tlie Papers arc reprinted rerhatim, and with no otiicr
addition than two or three short notes and a new Post-
/
VI rUEFACE.
script to the Third Series. I make no apology for any
rc])ctitions they contain, nor for other imperfections of
style vvhicli will be found in them. Knowing the ori-
ginal llej)orts to 1)0 accurate as to matters of bict, I
w!is naturally unwilling, for the sake of mere ])olish,
to nm any risk of diminishing their value in the oidy
])oiut in respect of which I claimed some merit for
them.
My reasons for appenebng the ease of Miss ^Martincau’s
d., as an additional illustration, will be fomid in the
text.
IIow far the anticipations of my friends arc correct,
as to the more genend interest likely to be taken in
these Papers,—remains to be seen ;
but, sUght as they
are, 1 am disposed to bebeve that they may be of some
bcnctit not merely to the public, but to t he Mesmerists
themselves. If received simply as specimens or illustra-
tions of the sort of things which mesmeric professors
daily hold forth to the world, and wliich the world re-
ceives, as inarN'cls of the highest order and as tniths
PREFACE. Vll
iulniitting of uo question, they must, surely, give rise
to reflections that may lead to some beneficial results.
If the professors, on further consideration of the sub-
ject, do not condescend to supply the public uith en-
dcucc of a more satisfactory kind, the public must cease
to be satisfied with the kind of evidence they do supply.
Ever)- one who has paid attention to the proceedings
of professed mesmerists,—even those of the highest
cliiss, the members of the medicjd profession,—must now
be thorouglily com'inced of the absolute ueccssity of their
changing the i)lau they have hitherto pursued, if they
expert to sec mesmerism rc'garded as a branch of human
knowledge deserving the attention of scientific men. So
long !is they refuse to adopt the rigid system of obser-
vation required in the sciences, and repudiate all the
ordinaiy rules of induction and rational inference deemed
essential to establish facts in other departments of
knowledge, they have no right to quarrel with those
who persist in disbelienng—or uho, at least, refuse to
ailmit as truths,—tilings, most marvellous in themselves.
Vlll PREFACE.
wliicli, if true, arc, to say the least, in nowise proved to
ho so, and which, for tlic most part, have no otlicr
evidence in their favour than the hare assertions of igno-
rant, interested, and, it may he, very unprineipled per-
sons. No one eonvensant witli these proceedings, as
hitherto conducted, can deny tliat few, if any, of the
greatest marvels recorded hy the mesmerists, and pro-
mulgated as miqucstionahlc facts, repose on more sound
foundations than, hefore trial, seemed to support those
M-hich the investigations detailed in the following p:igcs
proved to he utterly baseless and fidsc. As all, then,
may he untrue, arc we not authorised to demand a new
course of impiiry, or a new series of cvidcnee.s, before
we arc called upon to admit the truth of Clairvoyance and
the other transcendent id phenomena of mesmerism ? Arc
we not justified, for the future, in refusing to receive
from the mesmerists marv’cllous statements as truths
and facts, uidcss it is, at the same time, proved to he
impomhle to explain or account for them, on other,
ordinary', or wlmt may he called natural principles ?
It is also hoped, that the pernsal of the exposures
PREFACE. IX
contained in this little Ixwk, may tejudi a iiscliil lesson
to those numerous umscientilic persons, who arc accus-
tomed to attend mesmeric exhibitions, pul)bc or private,
from motives of rational curiosity, or with the com-
mendable objeet of investigating what seem important
trutlus. Such persons, it is believed, must now feel con-
vuiced that no reliance wliatevcr is to be placed on tlie
residts presented at such exhibitions, as evidencing
tlie tnitli and powers of mesmerism. As these results
arc witnessed by the ordinary visitor, it is quite im-
|K)ssible to di.serimiiuite the true from the f:dsc. Tlie
coarsest jugglery may pass with the honest s|H;ctator,
seated at a distance fnim tlie scene of action, for mys-
terious and awful truths. If Herr Doblcr and Monsieur
I’liilliiipe can [luzzle and perplex a whole theatre, surely
Cieorge (Jublc may bamlioo/.le the erudite captain and
the six hulies on .Mr. Venion’s ba<k .seats!
In eonelusion, I wish explicitly to state, that it formed
no part of the object with which these pajicrs were drawn
u|), to judge or prejudge the great question of the truth
or falsehood of mesmerism viewed generally ;
nor is it
X F’flKFACE.
iiiv iiitoiition, ou (lie. jiroseiit occiusion, to otlVi aiiy o|)ini()ii
as to tlio possibility or impossibility of CLAiuvuYANrK,
and t lie other mesmeric wonders. J have not denied
their [Kissibility, or even their existence as matters of
fact. 1 still profess myself ready to believe them ou
obtaining sidlicicnt jiroof of their reality. All that I
profess to have done is, by a simjilc narrative of facts, to
illustrate the actual pretensions and jierformances of the
Mesmerists of the jiresent day, and to show on what
sandy foundations the jiopular belief iu their marvels
rests.
J. F.
Loudon, A' 00. I, Iht-to.
CONTENTS
FIRST SERIKS OF IM.rSTRATIONS.
I’AOK
Alkxis 1
First Exililiition - - - - - 3
Second Exhibition - - - - Iti
SECOND SERIES OF I LI.USTR ATIONS.
I. Adolimik - - - - - 31
Trial A - - - - - - 32
Trial 15 . - - . . .31
Trial C - - - - - - 3(i
Trial 1) - - - - . 37
II. EaDV-So.MNA.M BUI.I.ST - - - . 39
Trial E - - . . - 10
Trial F - - - . - - 12
Trial fi - - . . - 1
III. FhAI’I.EIN VON CioNNKRN - - . I
Trial 11 . - . . - -16
Trial 1 - - - . . . 48
Uoniarks - . . - 00
Xll CONTENTS.
THIRD SERIES OE ILLUSTRATIONS.
PAGE
George Goble
First Day
First Exjicrimciit
Second Experiment
Third Experiment
Fourtli Experiment
Second Day
First Experiment
Second Experiment
Tliird Experiment
Third Day
First Experiment
Second Experiment
First Postscript
Second Postscript -
63
cy
ib.
72
74
il).
75
it).
76
77
80
81
83
85
87
FOURTH SERIES OK ILLUSTRATIONS.
I. Miss Martineau’s Statement - - 91
II. Dr. Forbes’s Letter to the Editor ok the
Athen/Eum - - - - 95
III. Dr. Brown’s Letter to Dr. Forbes - 96
IV. E.xtract from Jlr. Greenhow’s Statement 99
V. Attested Statement of Barbar.x Cole - 100
fLLUSTRATIONS OF MESMF:RISM.
dTtrSt ^rrirs.
ALEXIS.
Hearing from all riuartors of the wonderful feats of
the youth Alexis in mesmeric divination, and espeeiiilly
of Ids fiieile and unlimited ])ower in clairruyuncp, I wa.s
naturally desirous, with others, of personally witnessing
his perfonuauees, and of having my doubts settled on a
matter of such extreme curiosity and importance. 1
felt happy in the o|i]iort unity thus afforded, of being en-
abled to come to a satisfactory conclusion so readily and
so easily ;
as it appeared from the accounts of Idm, pro-
mulgiited through all the channels of communication,
that Alexis had few or none of those dillicidties in de-
monstrating his powers, which arc constiuitly interfering
with the performances of other professors of the same
school. He “ came, xaw, and conquered,” and all else
who cjiine —saw and were conquered. He held his daily
1
2 MESMERISM.
and niglilly in public and private, to llic nnnibcr
of three or four each day, at the rate of five guinca.s per
sitting. He M'as “ tlic i-age. ” in all the aristocratic
circles,
“ Where throngs of knights ami barons boKl,
In weeds of peace, high triumphs hold,
With store of ladies, whose bright eyes
Rain influence, and judge the prize.”
lie was, of course, the pet., jiride, itnd gloi-y of all pro-
fessed incsincrists, itnd his triunijihs even coinjirehended
some sober men of seience wlio, like myself, were simply
desirous of tiseerlaining the truth. Witli them, I con-
sidered all the alleged ])hcnomena of mesmerism as, at
least, deserving invest ig:it ion ;
and, like them, I oidy
M'antfid jiositivc jiroofs of its truth to believe it. Re-
garding cUnrnoyance as the major man'cl, including all
viinor maiTcls, 1 was jircpared to admit other things
without examination, if thi.s, on examination, proved a
true thing. Rut., of course, I rerpiired evidence before 1
admitted the truth of whatwfis in itself so very -wonder-
fid ;
and I submit to the most zealous believers in mes-
inerism, whether there was anything in the proceedings,
as detailed in the following notes, inconsistent with the
plain and honest scfirch after truth. The results, :us
will be seen, M’crc finytliiug but satisfactory; and while
they proved nothing in favour of mesmerism, they
proved, I fear, that these professors of it are not to be
tnistcd as faithfid promulgators of what ought to be
scientific truths
There arc no tricks in plain and simple faith.”
At the same time, 1 think it necessary to repeat here
ALEXIS. 3
wliat I have stated iu tlic notes, that mesmerism may be
true wliile its professors are false; that negative rcsidts
must, of eourse, give way to jiositivc ones ;
and that I,
for one, am still uneonvinecd that clairroyatice has not
existed, and docs not exist, merely because iUe.xis, on
these occjisions, failed to show it. I require no other
proofs of its existence than are deemed essential in
every other de|)artment of iialund science; but while
these are denied me it is no fault of mine that 1 remain
a sceptic.
Fiilst Exiiihition.
The exliibition to which the following memoranda
refer took place at a small eoneert-nxjin in Mortimer-
Street, on Thursday, July 11, ISH, from half-past twelve
to two p.in. There were fn)ui thirty to forty persons
present. The [lerformer (.Vlexis) was thrown into a
stale of so-called somnambulism, by his friend, M.
Mareillet, merely looking steiuifiistly at him while
seated iu a chair. With the exce])tiou of the lirst ex-
periment, during which AJe.xis seemed to be asleep, all
the others were performed while he seemed to a com-
mon observer to be awake, with his eyes (when not
bandiiged) partially open, lie appeared to see, hear,
and know w hat w!is going on aliout him, just as any of
the spectators. The only peculiarity that struck me
WiLs, that the eyelids were only partially open and occa-
sionally quivering.
4 ME8MEEIS3I.
Tlie following notes were wiittcn immediately after
the meeting, if there be any inaeciu'aeics in them,
they eertainly do not regard matters of any import-
anee.
1 . Tlic left arm was extended in a state of rigidity,
not o))posing very great resistance to downward pres-
.sure. The pidse smaller in the rigid arm.—Any one
eould do this.
2. The legs extended in the same way. A gentleman
partially stood on them, but not cntii'cly. —Any one
could do this with practice.
Ji. riayiug at eearte with the eyes bandaged. lie secine<l
to j)lay readily and well, winning the game, lie also
told the cards at tijiies in the jtaitucr’s hand; but he
also repeatedly fidled, aud made glaring mistakes in his
guesses.
The whole of this cx])crimcnt is vitiated hy the doubt
as to whether he could see under the bandage. Trom
carefully and most closely w’atclung him, 1 am of opinion
that he saw or miglit see from under the Irandagc.
1 particularly remarked that while the handages were
being ])laced, he repeatedly touched aud shifted them;
and Indore they were removed, 1 observed, most dis-
tinctly, that he ))rcssed a kmicklc forcibly over the
bandage uito the hollow of each eye, an if to elone the
leather that might hare hem remoted. 1 idso observed,
that when examining some body presented to liim, be-
fore the bandages were removcil, he placed the body to
one side of him, cxiictly as a person would do who was
trying to sec through a dillicult passage.
ALEXIS. 5
At any rate, the (to me) evident possibiH/j/ of sight
being exereised in the oriliiiary way, totally vitiates this
card-|)Iaying as an experiment.*
•i. Tlie ne.xt experiment, after the baudiigcs were re-
moved, was reiuling in a book through a certain number
of J)iiges, i.e., telling what wonh (two or three) woidd
be found opposite a certain point indicated on the open
l)age, some p;iges farther on. The experiment Wius per.
formed on a French book produced from the jKteket of
a gentleman |)resent, and was repeated tliree, four, or
live times. Being elose to .\Jexis the whole time, and
watcliing liiin most carefully, ami all liis proceedings, 1
• I hare been accused of doing injustice to Aiexis, at these ex-
hibitions, in not attaching more importance to his feats of enr<i-
pliiyinn, some of which, certainly, appeared not a little remarkable.
Hut 1 advisedly reject all such feats as evidence in a case of this
kind ;
and 1 think every honest and philosophical mesmerist will
admit, on due consideration, that they ought to be so rejected.
The very f.ict of cnrrfs being, time out of mind, the favorite field
for the display of the tricka n( the conjuror, ought alone to deter-
mine their exclusion from an investigation pretending to a scientific
character. The objection made in the text, of the dilficuity, not to
say impossibility, of demonstrating the perfect exclusion of vision
through the natural channels, in the case of piaying with the eyes
bandaged In the manner adopted by M. Matcillet, I stiil hoid to be
most just. The other performances without Imndages. such as
playing with the cards turiicil down, or with a screen interpa>sed,
arc so complex, and obviously involve so many chances of fallacy,
that it would be most unphiiosophieal to accept them in evidence,
so lung as evidence of a iike kind, and of a character entirely unex-
ceptionable, can be readily obtained. .Seeing to play at cards, with
bandaged eyes, or with the cirds reversed, and seeing to read
through the pages of biK>ks, dillers, in no respect, in principle, from
seeing through sealed envelopes, closed boxes, or other opake
bodies ;
and as the i.itter can admit of no doubt or controversy,
they ought alone to be employed.
1
§
f. MKSMEIUSM.
mu Ik)uik1 to (IccluiT tiuit the rosiilt was alto<^'llior in-
otjudusivi' as to liis possossiiu' tlio power prctemleil.
a. lu the first place, in no iiistauoe were the words
named liv him exactly under the point indicated on tlic
open pa^m. He hunted over many jmj'es, and was
satislied (as were many of the spectators) if he fouml
the word named aiiifirhere, in any part of the pai^e
b. Secondly, 1 distinctly ohserveil, in every ease, that
before naminf' the woril or worils, he tumid over the
leaves (apparently carelessly and heedlessly, but with
his eyes never removed from them) in such a manner
that it was the easiest thini' in the world for a iierson
of ordinary si>^ht to see sideirays into the piif^es, and
thus to eateh words. 'I'his fact, coupled with the otlier
just stated («), utterly vitiates this experimeut. It is
idso obvious that only thefrst of the expiuiments could
Ih‘ valid, iLs in searehiui' for the frsl words he had the
opportunity of tixinj;: in his mind as many words as he
pleased for the subse(|ueul trials. And 1 observed tbat
he wouhl only look at those pm'ls of the book which ho
had turned over.
5. 'I'he next set of experiments referred to his jiower
of readiiifr words wrapped u|> iu paper, boxes, Ac., and
of sjeuendly iudicating the contents of certaiu bodies
presented to him.
'I'he following were some of the experiments and their
results
a. A j:^'utlemau (I believe Colonel (iurwood) [ire-
sented to him somethini; very loosely wraiiped in |iai>er.
lie felt it, and said it was a box {boite). lie then him-
ALEXIS. I
self removed the paper, and laid the apparent box (a
smidl oeti^^iud body with gilt top,) down on the table.
He w<ia then asked what it eoutiiincd: he said, “some
charaoters in writing.” 'Wliilc he was saying this (or
jirevioiLsly, I do not now recollect wliich) he liad perfect
opportunity, as the object lay lieforc him and was touched
by him, and was constantly looked at by him ;
I say he
had a i)crfcct o])port unity of opening the hook (for such
it was), so that he might see tlic characters within it. 1
cannot say positively that lie did open it, but anybody,
not a juggler, might have done so unobscr\cd. lie then
announced that it was some writing in diameters he did
not understand. Tlie book ])roved to be a copy of the
Koran in Arabic. This experiment was ch-arly a failure :
tirst, because u^hile corered lie declared the hook to be a
hox; and, secondly, when the paper was removed, there
w!Ls, to say the least, no impossihility of seeing the con-
tents in the iiatund way.
h. A slip of folded jiaper was given him. He ex-
amin'd it most closely, putting it to his chest, month,
&c., and seemed to me cautiously looking for an oppor-
tunity of unfolding it, as he turned it over and over, and
partially opened it, more than once. My eye wius, how-
ever, so constantly ILxed on his proceedings, that he
could not open it unseen, and he did not oiien it. After
an inlinite de:d of maiKEuvring, and asking many (pies-
tions of the lady who gave it him, as it desirous of ob-
taining some hel|) from her answers, he resigned it, and
fairly said he coidd not read.
c. not her paper (or it might be the same) he pro-
8 MKSMEIUSM.
cecdccl with in the same way, now often stating, in-
(iniringly, the nninber of letters (which constantly
varied, he sometimes saying six, eiglit, four, and so on).
At last he said it was very ditlicidt, because it was
folded OH itself {pile sue lui-meme). lie returned it to
the lady tliat it might be unfolded. 1 went and saw it
opened l)y the lady ;
U was not in the least folded. It
was a boldly written word, either “ Londres
”
or
“Jui/teterre,” 1 forget whieli.
d. One of tliese i)aeket,s, while manipidatiiig (I now
recollect it was the one I saw opened by the huly), he
j)rieked through with a j)in, saying “ he pricked the dot
o/7//« and then “the i itself.” AVhen opened, the
word contained no i!
e. A lady (evidently a strong believer, and very
friendly to Alexis) i)ut herself in with liim, and pro-
iluced a large b(jx like an overgrown card-case, or a ciisc
for holding a small ])raycr-book (opening like a card-case
in the middle.) lie took it in his hands and felt it, and
turned it about. He was asked what it contained; he
said, after a brief jjausc, something gilded {dore,) and
then said, a watch {monlre,) and added, that “what wiis
curious, the glass was broken.” The lady was surprised
at this, and said it was not broken when she gave it him.
On opening the box by drawing otf the top, sure enough
there was a watch on one side, tcilh the glass next the
outside, and tlic glass was broken ! Nothing coukl be
clearer thmi that he might have broken the glass
through the yielding csise, or felt the broken glass, or
heard or felt the watch tick (if it was going, which I
ALEXIS. 9
cannot assert,) and tlius conic at once to know that it
was a watch, and a watch with a broken glass! 1 believe
this was tlic fact; but, at any rate, it must be admitted
that such a clear-seeing as {\i\s have been accom-
plished liy anybody, and therefore the experiment goes
for nothing.
f. 1 had taken half a dozen boxes, and folded papers
and scided envelopes, each containing a rrencti wont, so
wra|iped up as that it was inipoiisiljle to sec into them
with ordinary eyes. These lay on the table all the lime,
and 1 hail rejieatedly pressed on M. Mareillet to let him
try one of them. But some excuse was always made.
Meantime, a gentleman came fonvard with his two hands
closed, and rerpicsted to be informed what they con-
tained. Alexis took the hands, turned them round, and T
ndw him (lijstiiirllif separate them a little, so that he mi^ht
have seen what they contained, at least the colour of
it. lie lirst said it is a small thinp. Tlie gentleman
said, of course, or it could not be contained within the
hands. Alexis then said, it is of a reddish or darkish
colour, “ and ifbroken {rasse',) white inside." After a long
time, and trving very hard by leading cpiestions, to lind
out something about it, he said it contained writing or
printing (1 forget wliich;) that there was a large word
with five letters in the centre, and some arrangement of
hues whicli 1 now forget, .\fter a long time the hands
were 0|)ened, and were found to contain a small morocco
pocket-book, which was certainly reddish outside, and
had some white paper and some i)rinted or engraved cards
inside. At this time 1 forget w hat was on the cards, but
10 MK.SMIiJUSM.
I am certain iliat ilic “cliief” word of five letters was
not there, and the lines wore not arraiiffcd as .Vlexis had
said. Tliis exj)eriinent 1 regard <is also a hiilna! in every
nispect, (!xcept that tliere icas something white inside.
Tlic red eolour outside iniglit have l)cen seen ;
the white
Wiis POSsiiiLY a guess ;
at any rate, the other mistakes
committed are sidlieient to neutralise this small suecess,
to say the least of it. 1 therefore maintain that this ex-
periment proven nothing.
(f.
At length, after many attempts, I sueceeded in
getting a lady (a friend of Alexis, and favoured l)y him)
to take one of my boxen, and put him to the test hi my
own way. Slic wius ])ut en rapport with him, hut he
would not attempt to read tlie word written ivithin upon
lindingthat did not know what it was. She then
went to one side of the room to examine the word, and
I just arrived near lier in time to see licr take from tlie
hox tlic word, and look at it, nnrroandeil by mani/ of the
company. Thin lean done openly ; and thougli 1 at once
felt that tills cireumstance w:is sullicient to vitiate the
cxiieriment—as it \si\^(iuiteponniblc,‘A\vS., iwAoul, extremely
probable, that some of Alexis’s/nVwfA' might see it wholly
or ])arthdly, and make him acquainted with it —J still
begged the lady to allow me to replace the word in
snch a manner that it could not eiujily he seen even if
the top of the box (a small paper wafer-box) were re-
moved. Well, she rctiu-ncd to Alexis, and gave him the
box. lie looked at it long, and at last said inquisitively,
“ nn mol de einq lellres then seven, then eight, and at
hist fwe iigain, adding, “ 1 am now sure it is five.” I
ALEXIS. 11
hogged her not to tell ;
and partly succeeded, though it
was obvious she was desirous of helping him idl she could.
At last, he said the word ends with the letters -ion, and
tried liard to get the lady to help him out with the rest.
If 1 had not coimtantly interfered, 1 saw clearly that he
would have bothered or bamlnmled her out of them.
He then wTOte on a jiaper -ion, then tried sevend pre-
fixes to suit, and at hist seemed to settle on notion, or
some word like this, but one certaiidy ending in -tion.
Two o’eloek having now arrived, 1 was obliged to de-
part before the box was opened, but I wjis thoroughly
satisfied that some one of liis frieiuh had had a glimpse of
my word (it was in large print,) and liad told this to him.
It was, however, a word not of five, or six, or eight let-
ters, but one of ten, tiz. discussion.
The eonductof.iVlexis, throughout, was altogether that of
a man who was playing a dceejitive jmrt, and looking in idl
direetionsforhelpiuhiselTorts tosueccedin what wjisgiven
him to do. In all his attenijits to reml the words inclosed in
envelopes, he invariably maile, in the first phicc, iiupiiring
guesses !is to the word being in writing or jirint, and es-
pecially as to the number of letters ;
and he and liis Iricnds
made unconcealed attcinjits to wheedle the jiarty who
gave the word, into conceding something so ns to help
him in solving the jiroblem. “ It is a word of five let-
ters—eh?” “ Is it a word of six ?—No—it is—,
eh !”
and so on.
Now it is certainly strange that if a man had the [lOwer
of seeing the word through its covers, he should need
such aid, or that such aid could be of any use to him.
12 MESMEKISM.
How cantlic knowledge of the number of letters in a
word, or of the two or three first or last letters in a word,
help a man to seo the remainder ? Of course, howev'er, it
may help him to guess them.
WHieii he took the folded papers in his hands, in his
various manipulations—])lacing them to his stomach, &c.
—he was frccpiently seen to unfold the edge slightly,
just as if he wished to unfold the ])aper eompletely ;
and
I obsen’ed also that ho frequently shaded his face with his
hand {as if meditating') in such wise us would hare enabled
him to nnfold st(eh papers nnperceiced bg persons ala small
dislan.ee from him, although my close watching rendered
this impossible in the present case. I regard this as im-
portant, as it indicates how deceit may have been prao-
tisedin other cases, and how apparent success may have
been achieved.
It was also evident, throughout the exhibition, that
Alexis had several friends (I do not call them confede-
rales—\mi they afforded, in their condiict, the strongest
grounds for suspicion that they were such,) who took an
active part in trying to help him in his ditliculties.
Among other manoeuvres, repeated attem))ts were made
to get the sj)Cctators (and myself especially) removed
from the table, under the plea t hat ladies coxdd not see,
&c. A Trench woman—evidently one of the party
wished me to give one of my boxes to her, begging me at
the same time to leave the room, as my presence as au
mibelievcr was hostile to the powers of Alexis, and that
then she woidd get him to read the word it contained.
Of course, had I complied, there was uotliing to lucvcnt
ALEXIS, 13
her from opening the box and naming the word to tlio
performer. These, and other tilings of the same eom-
plexion, are not merely suspicious, but show that, what-
ever the results might be, they coidd not be established
on, or derived from, pure unquestionable e\ddenee.
From the whole of the exhibition the following concln-
sions must be admitted:
1. That the whole affair bore the complexion ol'
trickeiw, or, at aU events, that it wanted entirely the pro.
cisiou requisite in scientific inquiries.
2. That the total amount of jiositivc failures and posi-
tive blunders greatly exceeds that of ]icrfonnauecs having
even a colour or shght degree of success.
3. That the fadui-es occurred in cases where the cir.
cmnstances were such as to exclude collusion and the ex-
ercise of ordinary msion.
4. That all the instances of success occurred where cir-
cumstances allowed of collusion or ordinary \dsion.
5. That in all of the cases of success, such collusion or
vision urns cither proved or rcTidcred extremely probable.
6. That there was not one single unequivocal example
of what is called clairvoyance.
7. Tliat, consequently, this exJiibition not only affords
not one tittle of evidence in favour of the existence of
this faculty in the man Alexis, but presents extremely
strong grounds for believing that the pretended power in
him is feigned, and that he is consequently an unpostor.
From what 1 witnessed at tliis exlubition, and at an-
2
It MESMERISM.
other wlicrc it was protciuled that tlie so-called soirmam-
buli.st cxliibited the faculty of having the |)hrenological
organs excited individually by mcsincrisin, I am nuieh
more satisfied than 1 used to be in regard to the jirobablc
causes of the extensive belief in the wonders of mes-
merism. On both these occasions it was clear that many
of the spectators were cither totally unacquainlcd with
the laws of evidence, or that their cut husiiisl ic tempera-
ment, or ])revious convictions or jirejudiecs, rendered
them, for the time, incapable of ap])reciating, or of being
guided by, such laws. They admitted as positive facts
what appeared to calm, unprejiubced obscn’crs, not only
not facts, but the merest assumptions, unsupported by a
tittle of the kind of evidence rcriuircd in scicntitic inves-
tigat ions. Tt was also evident t hat there was among such
jtersons an endeavour to help the exhibitor to get at the
results ])roposed, and an ciigerncss t o believe everything
without riuestioii, and with a jironencss of faith unjusti-
tiablc and therefore never admitted in impiirics of a
scicntitic character. A further source of hdlaey existed
in the circumstances in which the great majority of the
spectators were placed, viz., the utt cr im]iossibility, owing
to their distance from the scene of action, of their seeing
exartly what took ])laee, .so as to enable them to guard
against the possibility of mistakes, misstatements, or col-
lusion. These circumstances, t;ikcn in combination with
the natural tendency of the human mind to believe rather
than to be sceptical, and with the pronencss of mankind
in general to recollect successful wonders (especially in
the way of guessing, divining, or jirophcsying) rather than
ALEXIS. 15
failures, may, as I have said, liclp to cxphdn the wide-
si)i-catl l)clief in mesmerism, even if mesmerism should be
false.
In eoncludin" these hurried notes, I think it right to
state that even now I oidy avow myself a scei)tie or
doubter—not an utter ilisbeliever—as to mesmerism. 1
am still open to convietiou, when sueh evidence of its
truth is afforded me as is deemed necessary in any other
scientific inquiries. The things 1 have myself seen, most
assuredly inereiisc very materudly the doubts 1 before en-
tertained; still I do not regard them as sufficient to
prove the utter fidseness of mesmerism ; they prove no-
thing more than their utter insufficiency to prove its
truth. Even the positive i>roof of trickery and collusion
on the part of its professors, however, would afford no
sound rejisou for declaring it to be fidsc. Like medicine,
or any other branch of uatund science, it may be true,
although it be professed and practised by charlatans,
cheats, mid rogues. Give me the same kind of pnmfs
of clairvoyance that I have of other scientific truths, and
I will believe it.
10 MKSMEKISM.
Second Exhibition.
Tlii.s was what was called a private sUtinq, being held
(July l!)lh) at the liouse ol’ the jihysiciaii who now reports
it, (Dr. Forbes,) and who rej)orled the former. On this
occasion, M. Mareillcl, of course, received his usiud fee
of live guineas for the ])erforinauec. Tlic company con-
sisted in all of not less than twenty. All j)resent were
medical gentlemen, except Jive, two of the five being of
the resi)ectivc ag(!S of fifteen and sixteen.*
It being well known that the mesmerisers arc in the
habit of attributing failures, when they occur, to the un-
court eons or hostile interference of the cbsbelicvers, it
w!is ])redctcrmined tliat on the jircsent occasion ^IM.
Mareillet and Alexis should not only have every courtesy
shown them, but shoidd not be interfered with in any
way, exce|)t in so far as was absolutely necessary to en-
sure anything bkc accuracy in observing the ])roceedings.
And this determination w:is rigidly acted on throughout
M. Marcillct being given (bstinetly to understand that he
was to follow his own plans, the company being simply
spectators, unless called on by I\I. Marcillct himself to
• It is a minute and not very important circumstance, yet one
worth mentioning, as showing as well on what small matters these
exhibitors glorify themselves, as how their asseverations require
being checked by calmer observation, that on this occasion M.
Marcillct boasted not a little of the wonderful perspic.icity of Alexis,
in finding out, and telling him (M. Marcillct,) that all the party
were medical men {medecint) except two.
ALEXIS. 17
assist him or his ward. One of the company a^ecd to
take notes of t he proceedings in short-hand. This gentle-
man jilaccd himself in a corner of tlie room at some dis-
tance from Alexis, in order that he might not attnvct the
at tention ol the latter. I thought he rcniiiincd unnoticed,
but it was afterwc'U'ds found that he was noticed by M.
Marcillct, and Ids jircsencc was urged as a grievance by
M. MareiLlet, but ml until after the oceurrenee of many
failures. It is most certain that the j)rocess of note-
taking w;is conducted with the greatest calmness and rc-
scn'c, so as to be unnoticed by abnost everj* one in tlic
room. Tins precaution was puqmsely taken in order to
avoid giving otfcnce toM. Marcillct, or interfering inmiy
way with the jiroceedings of Ale.xis. It was arnuiged
that, during certain of the experiments, the minuthe of
which the short-hand writer could not distinctly see, an-
other ol the company shoidd quietly communicate the
facts to him.
About nine o’clock ^I. Marcillct proceeded to mag-
netise .Alexis by sitting down before him, and stemlfastly
staring at his countenance. In the course of live minutes,
Ol less, i\Jexis began to yawn luul stretch, and immedi-
ately aftenvards appeared to fall asleep. After a few
further mauceuvres ]\I. Mincillet considered him in a
projier coudit ion for action, lie had previously jircpared
the apparatus for bandaging the eyes, but when this
operation was going to be set about, jUe.xis declared his
intention not to be bandaged. This was, of course, im-
immediately complied with, without any reason being
asked or given.
18 MESMERISM.
I.
On Alexis proposing to play cards, a new pack was
laid on t he table, and a gentleman of the eompany selected
to ])lay with him, as being known to Alexis, and con-
sidered l)y him and M. Marcillct ius favorable at least to
mesmerism, if not a full beUever in it. The game was to
be ecarlc.
a. Alexis took the pack, tlmcw out the superfluous
cards, and the game proceeded in the usual manner the
cards being dealt in the usual manner, somctuncs by Ale.xis,
and plaged with their faces uj)wards,
b. After a hand or two thus played, Alexis proposed to
continue tlic game with a partition, or screen, placed be-
tween him and his jiartner. The screen used was a music-
book (eleven inches high by fourteen wide) sup])ortcd at
the back by a small round sofa-cushion. Sevend hands
were thus played, Alexis playing his cards dowm on his
own side of the partition, or handing them over it, or
round the end of it, and his jjartner laybig Ids cards do\vn
on his side of the j)artition. Although the screen was
too low to prevent all possibility of vision, except m hen
the cards of his adversary were kept very close to the
cushion (which was on the adversary’s side,) and although
they were not always kept thus close, still, as it cannot
be proved that Alexis did sec any of his opponent’s cards^
httlc or no stress is laid on this circumstance; the fact is
merely mentioned historicaUy, and as a hint for future
experimenters.
The following is the account of this pail of the per-
ALEXIS. 19
formance from the notes of the gentleman who took them
at the time :
“ First game. Alexis made a mistake in commencing
the first hand, by desirmg liis oi)ponent to play a spade,
and lie stated that Iiis opponent had four trumps in liis
hand when he had not one. In the second hand, Alexis
said that liis opponent had the ten, which he had not ;
but
he stated also that he had two trumps, wliich was correct
and idso that he had the seven, which again was correct.
In the third hand he was again mistaken in regard to the
trump card, which he said was a diamond, when it was a
spade; but although he was wrong in regard to the tnunjis,
the cards afterwards fell as he had previously said they
would fall. In the next hand he said the trump turned
up was a heart, when it was a spade, lie then asked for
fee card.s, when he only required three, lii the next hand
Alexis was correct in his statements four times, but was
wrong in three.
“ Second game. In commencing the next game, Alexis
was mistaken m the trump, and also in the number of
eards wanted ;
and, on the whole hand, he was twice cor-
rect and twice in error. In the second hand the eards
were played with theirfaces downwards, when Alexis was
again mistaken in the trump. In the third hand he was
mistaken in the number of cards wanted, and he stated he
had played a red card when he had played a black one.
lie now' threw up his hand on the supposition that his
opjioneut had the best cards, when, in fact, he himself
20 MESMERISM.
Iiail the means of wanning tliegamc, having the odd trick
in his own hand.”
Giving my owai genend impression of tlie residts of tlie
eaial-playing and card-seeing, 1 shoidd say that tliere was
very partial success, and a vast number of hulurcs. The
somnambulist sometimes ])laycd tolerably well ;
some-
times he named the number of cards wanted accurately ;
sometimes he was right as to trumps ;
l)ut in idl these re-
spects he was much oftener w rong than right. In giving
the names of cards i)laeed behiiul the screen, he over and
over again not only mistook clubs for spades, and hearts
for diamoiuLs, Imt he mistook the cards of ditlerent
colours, anil even the court and plain cimds of ditlerent
colours, one for another. He sometimes fancied Ids op-
ponent had a very good hand when he had a bad one, and
rice rema. lie sometimes followed suit, and sometimes
he did not. In a word, his performance seemed decidedly
better than might have been expected of a blind man, yet
far short of w hat we Inul a right to expect from one who
[irofesses to sec through opake bodies. Indeed, his
guesses as to the cards tiu-nedup behind the screen were
hardly more })ros])erous than mere random guesses might
be expected to be, when we consider that there was only
three to one iigainst any one naming the right colour, and
not a very vast odds (I do not know how many) against
naming the right card, as all the snudl cards up to the
sevens inclusive are thrown out of the pack.
ALEXIS. 21
II.
Upon throwing up liis cards, Alexis remained for
some lime in liis chair, witli M. Mareillet seated by liis
side, encouraging and condoling with him, while the com-
jjany were seated or standing round the room, conversing
quietly together, not at all interfering with the proceed-
ings of tl>e perfomers, and carefully keeping their opinions
as to tlie past proceeding from the cars of MM. Mareillet
and Alexis. After a considerable time we were infonned
that Alexis w.is prepared to exercise his fiieidty of dair-
Toyance by reading certain words, or sentences, through
the p:iges of a book, or through several folds of clean
I)ai)er, ])hiecd on an opened juige. The latter being pro-
posed by M. Mareillet himself, three sheets of WTiting-
paper were j)laeed open (that is, three leaves) across the
two ])ages of a snudl l)ook, opened about the middle.
Tlie book W.IS opened at niudoin by myself, and the
pa])er placed on tlie pages, without their being seen by
Alexis or myself. Tlie luKik was a small duodecimo, in
l''rench(Dr. l)eCarro’s..//«w/wr^ deCarldml),\s\\vA\ 1 feel
assured wiis not seen previously in the house by Alexis.*
a. After jioring for a considerable time over the white
paper spreiul on the book, with his hand jiressing it iii
(lill'ercut jiarts, and his face pretty closely apfiroximated
to it, like a short-sighted person, he tLxed on a point
* Even Ihit, however, was pnttible, as this book was lying on a
table, in the b.ack drawing-room, in whieh Alexis remained a short
time by himself, previously to being magnetised.
22 MESMEUISV.
about the centre of the riglit-hand ])!ige, and s])okc tlic
words 'Ule France” indicating tlie s|)ot benealh wliich
these words, lie said, lay. 1 was j)arlicidar in making
him indicate the exact spot, and I idso made him say
wliclhcr or not tlic words (wliich he also wrote on the
])a]>er) were on the jiagc immedUttely below the sujier-
imposed MTiting-]ia]ier. He said they were on this page ;
and that both lie and M. Marcillet expected to find them
tliere ap|)cared evident to me, from the obvious concern
cxiircssed by them when the paper M-as removed. The
page (p. 77 of the book) immediately beneath the sheets
of |)aj)cr, was two thirds htank, there being oidy seven
lines of ])rint at the toji of it; and on tlie exact sjiot
which Ale.xis fixed on, there was a small black line, or
mark, such as printers arc accustomed to place at the end
of a chajiter, —which this was.
Althongli 1 regarded this as a comjilctc faihu’c, and it
seemed at first to be so considered by MM. Marcillet and
jVlexis, they immediately shifted their gromid, and said
it snificed if the words were found anywhere opjiositc to
the indicated spot. They were, according to our plan,
humoured in this, and search was made for the words in
fpicstion. After turning over some leaves, and the exact
words not being found, the jierformers at length seized
on the word “ soajf
ranee,” which was found on the leaf
next to the blank one (p. 79), in the third line below the
level of t he spot fixed on by Alexis, and about hall’ an
inch to one side of it.
I cannot say how many pages were turned over in
seai-chiug for the clear-seen words, but we certaudy did
ALEXIS. •23
turn over several, both at, this time ami on <119 oeeasion
of the next experiment; and it is to be remembered, (hat
while Alexis and myself were doing so (or rat her while
he was doing so, and I wiis trj-ing what I eould, without
giving offence, to prevent liim), M. Mareillct was stand-
ing over us and, without restriction, eagerly examining
the pages also. These facts, of course, utterly vitiate t he
succeeding experiments on the same book, as there was
a pomijili/i/, at least, of M .\I. Marcillct and Alexis seeing
words in other pages; and it will hardly be denied that
there was an extreme prohahilUy that they did so. How-
ever, on the principle of letting the exi)erimenters have
their own way, under our close observation, we |)ro-
eceded to further trials on the same book.
h. The ])aper was again placed by me on the book opened
at random. It happened to be at page DS. On this oe-
ciision Alexis did not fix on words, but selected a point
at the upper left-hand comer of the page, and .said the
page begjin with an alinea (a new paragra|)h, where the
print w;is »et in to the extent of a couple of letters). He
distinctly said (he p;igc hetjan with this uUnea, and I
marked the sjiot on and through the paper by strong
pressure with my uail. On removing the sheet of pap(T
it W!is found that (he page ditl not begin with an alinea,
and that the s])ot indicated by .Vlexis was altogether above
(he commencement of the jirint. There wiis, however,
an alinea, or new paragraph, commeneing with the third
liiw of the iKige, and this was immediately seized on by
M.M. Mivreillet and Alexis, as the thing seen and indi-
eatetl. It was denied by .M.M. .Marcillct and .Vlexis that
24 MESSrERISM.
Alexis liad said began the page, and the exist-
ing fdinea M’as considered by them as sidlieiently near the
spot marked to make the cxj)criment succcssl’id ! It is
to be remarked t hat the pages of this l)ook only eontamed
twenty-two hues, and the paragraphs were vciy numerous
throughout. In the very page in question there were
two other paragraphs. Of course it was perfectly easy
for Alexis to observe, during the search for the words in
the former experiment, this disposition of the pidnt.
c. The paper was once more ))laeed further on (p. 13.‘1),
and after a short time Alexis announced that he saw a
certain word, which he was requested to write domi ex-
actly over tlic spot wlicre it was to be foiuid. lie did so
writing the word (which, bke the words “ de France”
still remains on the paper) “ Mitlburn” with a dimresis
over t he u.
On this occasion! do not think it was stated by Alexis
that the word was certainly to be found on the page im-
mediately below the paper, and consequently we idlowed
him to turn over the pages and look for it. After some
time, neither he nor 1 being able to lind the word, and it
being regarded by me as of no re;d moment, even if it was
found (the experiment being vitiated by the j)revious leaf-
tuniing), I shut the book, wishing that we shoidd pro-
ceed to some other experiment.* Seeing that there was
disappomtincnt and some dissatisfaction expressed by iM .
Marciilct at my conduct, I sjud, “ 1 have no doubt the
• 1 mention this particularly, because, at a subsequent part of the
evening, M. Mardllet chose to be extremely wroth on account of
tills action of shutting the book before the word was found.
ALEXIS. 25
word is in the book,” thinking this almost certain, as the
book was on the Waters of Carlsbad. Accordingly, I
gjivc tlie book up into their own hands, and after a con-
siderable search not this word exactly, but one very like
it, and one wliich, under ordinarj’ circumstances, would
be admitted to be the same, only misspelt—was found—
viz., “ Muhlbrunn” in page 1G5 ;
that is, tliirty-pagcs be-
yond the page on which the sheets of paper were phiccd !
The word was near the spot indicated as its site by M.
Alexis, but not tliis spot exactly; it was in the second
line above and a little to the right of it. Tlic words on
this page, immediately opposite the spot selected by M.
Alexis, were “ a-dire de” and it is to be recollected that
there was a series of, at least, .vxly-four words, superim-
posed on each other, between the surface to which vision
was directed and this page. It is certjiiuly curious that
some one of these sixty-four wortls w:is not selected in
preference.
Thus ended the trials with books. A period of repose
succeeded, during which MM. ^larcillet and Alexis
seemed to be mutmdly comforting and coiLsoling each
other, under what, even by their own showing, was by no
memis triumphant success. Meanwhile I prepared what
I regarded as the only real ex|)eriment, the experimentum
cruets, viz., the reading or divining of words inclosed in
opake covers, respecting wiiieli there cotdd be no collu-
sion and no delusion.
3
20 MESMERISM.
III.
1 laid on tlic laldc five packets, iiifonning MM.
Marcillet and Alexis that each contained a French word.
Four of these words were in largish ])rint, and one writ-
ten in good-sized letters. Three of the envelopes con-
sisted of several folds from two to six—of fine MTiting-
paper, one being gummed and sealed, the others merely
carefully folded so that they could not be unfolded with,
out this being obsen'ed. No one but myself was aware
of the contents of these packets, and each was marked
exteriorly Muth a cijdier corres])onding with a card in my
pocket-book, indicating the word contained in each.
Alexis selected one of the unsealed and thiimcst enve-
lopes, and set himself, with great apparent earnestness,
and without any seeming discontent or distrust, to ilivine
its contents. It contained the word “ Fin,” written in a
large bold hand, on a piece of card. As inclosed in the
envelope, the card was covered by only two thicknesses
of paper (a fine wove post). Profound silence was pre-
served in the room, and no one was close to Alexis’s chair
but M. MareiUct and myself. Ilis ]irocccdings were
to look intently at the paper for a comiderable time in
different aspects, pressing it and turning it about in his
hands, jircssing it occasionally to his breast, forehead,
and lips ; but still seeming to depend maiidy on his eyes
•VLEXIS. 27
for the accomplishment of tlic dillicult feat. After a cou-
•sidcnable time he said the word contained in the envelope
was printed. No assent or dissent being expressed, after
another examination lie said it was written, and that he
was wrong in saying it was printed. After another long
pause, he said the word consisted of three letters. Still
silence and expectation; and after a short time he de-
clared he could see nothing, and threw down the paper.
Here the “ sitting' ended, as far as Alexis was con-
cerned, although he remained a long time in his so-called
soinnamhulic state, M. Marcdlct soot lung mul comforting
him, and a mcdieid gentleman—a believer in .Alexis
doing the same, and also attempting to excite the phre-
nological organs that might lead to a more cheerfid, con-
fident, and hopeful spirit—but in vain ;
.(Alexis refused to
attempt miything more that evening.
Although the same uniform calm, cautious, and cour-
teous behaviour towards MM. Mareillct and ^Alexis was
still preserved by the company, M. Mareillct several times
started up in great excitement, denomicing our j)rocced-
ings, i)roclainiing the powers of his protege, &c. The
general impression produced by his conduct was, that he
Wiis desirous of jtrovoking some retiJiation, so that he
might have to tdlegc some stronger groiuid tlnuihe pos-
sessed for the failure of (Alexis. If this wiis his object, it
was entirely baulked by the calm behaviour of all present.
'liic conclusions drawn from the results of the jmevious
exliibitiou seem ecpially deducible from those now detailed.
(Alexis utterly failed, now as then, to show, unequivocally.
23 MKSMERISM.
tliat power which lias been called clairvoyance. In se-
veral cases, both on the present and former occasions, his
guesses (if such they were), even when not correct, came
curiously near the truth, —as, for instance, when he named
the exact number oflettei's in the word in the cnvelojie.*
"J'he failures and blunders, however, were so egregious,
and so unaecountablc, on the hypothesis of the existence
of a lhorouc)h-Hceing facidty, that they must stagger the
most crcdidous when fairly examined. Still, as was ob-
served on the former occasion, the results being only neya-
tire, prove nothing more than that nothing was proved.
It only remains for the mesmerists to adduce one or two
jw.sitice unequivocal proofs, to put aside all our negative
ones. Such proof, however, is, 1 believe, yet to be ex-
hibited; and until it is exhibited uuciiuivocally,—that is,
with similar guards and precautions as the failures now
recorded took place under,—1, for one, must still rcnuiiu
a doubter at the very least.
^lany important remarks on the strange conduct of the
mesmerisers, as professors of what ought to be a matter
of science, arc suggested by the iireceding narratives, and
by the proceedings generally. 1 will here only briefly rc-
• I have now (1114.5,) not the slightest doubt, after the occurrence
of circumstances which will he detailed in a suhscc|ucnt page, (.See
in .Skcond Skkies, p 5.'t, the divination of tlie word “ Toulon"
by
Adolphe,) tliat Alexis did see, by ordin.iry vision, through the folds
of paper, the three letters in the word vin, although he was unable
to name them positively. I am now surprised that he failed to
name this word or some of the others in my papers. I was not
then fully aware of the insufficiency of a few folds of white paper to
exclude ordinary vision in certain lights.
ALEXIS. 29
fer to one point their incotisisteney witli one another,
and witli tlicinselvcs at different times. At the first ex-
liibition, it was declared essential to the reading of the
word in the bo.x, that the person giving the box shoidd
know the word. At the second, this was said by M.
Marcillct to be nnnccessary. And, indeed, the very
practice of Alexis himself, at the first e.xhibition, proved
that he considered this knowledge on the part of the pro-
ponndcr to be unnecessarj- ;
the reading of words in the
book through a number of pages being, in fact, the very
same thing as reading fhem through an envelope. The
alleged necessity, however, of having the word knowm by
flic propounder, obviously supplied one adcUtional meiuis
of knowing it tlirough cluuuicls common to all ;
while the
mann;u\Te of reading the book furnished the most facile
and ready help to successful imposition. Again, it is
maintained by some professors that the somnambulist
while wide awake, as far as hearing is couccrucd, to the
mesmeriser, is totally deaf and blind to impressions coming
from others—unless demesmerised i/i any particular sense
for the nonce. There was nothing of this sort in Ale.xis;
he did not hesitate to confer with and understand every-
body who chose to atldress him in relation {en rapport) or
out of relation, believer or infidel.
It has been thought necessary, on this and the former
occasion, to be very minute and circumstantial in detail-
ing the cxiierimcnts, as it is only in tliis maimer that a
just judgment can be formed by any reader, of the positive
3 §
30 MESMERISM.
value of such experiments. Almost all the published
records of mesmeric wonders, and idl those 1 ever heard
narrated, are utterly viduelcss, from being defective in ex-
act and minute detads. If the proceedings of iVlexis and a
few more of the so-caUed cle^ui-seers, were followed up
for a certain tunc, in the close mamicr adopted on these
two occasions, we shoidtl s})cedily come to positive con-
clusions respecting the truth or falsehood of these most
wouderful woudei's.
^cfonK
ADOLniE, &c.
Having licard much of tlie feats of Adolplie, which
were said by some to outdo even tliose of his brother
Alexis, and bavin" leanit that Dr. EUiotsou considered
him a genuine somnainl)ulist, I was once more induced to
renew my search for elainoyancc, notwithstanding the
inauspicious results of my former attemjds. In setting
about this second trial, ;is in my previous examinations,
^ detenuined to give the mesmerists no just grounds of
complaint agiiiiist me, while I took the ordiimry precau-
tions iigainst being imposed on by imperfect or false evi-
dence. 1 resolved to interfere in no way with the course
of their proceedings, contenting myself with being a sim-
ple obsen er of what was passing, or, at any rate, no fur-
ther an actor in the scene than wius in iiecordancc with
the wishes, or, atleast, with the full sanction of the di-
recting mesmeriser. And it is but justice to ^Ir. Vernon
to state, that while expressing his full satisfaction Avith
the course I and my friends took at these sittings, he in-
terposed no obstructious in the way of our proceedings,
32 MESMERISM.
and alTordcd ns no p^onnds for l)clicving tliat t here existed
any unfair collusion between him and t he sidyects of his
mesnicric manipidations. lie certainly seemed desirous
that Avc should lusccrfain the truth; although, if he still
believes in the good faith of his Lady-performer,' after
what he w'itncssed along with me, he must he much more
credulous than becomes a ])hilosoi)liical inqidrer.
In laying the results of these new trials before the
reader, 1 shall, in the first phice give a simple narrative of
the whole ])rocccdings, without comment ;
1 slndl then
append such speciid remarks tus are ctillcd for by the cases,
iuid conclude with such inferences as seem to flow uatu-
rfdly from the premises.
In all the examinations, except those of Fniulcin von
Gbnucni, 1 was most kindly assisted by my friends. Mr.
l)rewry Ottley was [)rcscnt at every meeting; Professor
Sharpey at every meet ing but one ;
Professor Reid, Dr.
Carpenter, Dr. Ilisdon Rciuictt, Dr. Wigan, Mr. Noble,
Mr. Newport, Mr. Spenser Wells, were ciich present at
one sitting.
I. Adolphe.
Trial A (Adolphe).—At Mr. Vernoiis, Duke Street,
May 13, 1815.
About a dozen persons Avere assembled. Previously
to Adolphe’s appearance, a poor Avommi, said to be labour-
ing under cancer, Avas mesmerised, and speedily fell into
.'ipparcnt sleep. She was left in tliis state dui'ing the
rest of the sitting.
AUOLPIIE. 33
Tlien a young girl was introduced, mesmerised, and
put througli the popidar performances of traction, and
exiiibitiug tlie excitement of the phrenological organs
(plireuo-mesmcrism). This performance was so man el-
lously pc-rfcct, so monstrously demonstrative of thetrutli
of the two sciences (phrenology and mesmerism), that it
was impossible to eutertaiu a moment’s doubt that the
whole tiling was a piece of sheer imposture, imworthy
of detail.
Adolplic was then introduced, mesmerised and bau-
daged (apparently with care) by Mr. Oltley, and then set
to play ecarte. This he did wonderfully well for a mim
who did not sec —rather bailly for a man who did. lie
also, while bandaged, told the names of cards ou having
them presented to him—sometimes wrong, often right:
and on vLsiting cards, he sometimes read the printed
names partly or wholly.
After a little time, the bandages were removed, and
Adol])hc pro|)osed to dear-see in the undoubted sense, i. c.
by seeing through opakc bodies. Several scaled packets
were placed by me into his hands; but, after a time, he
announeed that he had not the power of vision, and did
not declare the contents of any. A gentleman (who had
played at eVimte with him) then placed a folded paper (not
many times folded, and not seided) in his hands. This
he twisted about, looked earnestly at, i)laeed to Ids chest
mouth, &c., and then, though still declaring he coidd not
see, begiui to aimouncc, by fits and starts, imd with great
seeming carelessness, some of the letters of the word
inclosed, lie lirst said the word coutaiued two L’s (//),
34 MESMERISM.
then the letters “shall,” then “ marshall, or something
like it.” 1 watched the paper while in his hands, and saw
that he did not unfold it. The paper was then opened,
and was found to have MTitten on it the word “ Mas-
challa.”
Trial B (Adoli’iie).—At Dr. Forbes'
May If), 1845.
On this occasion there were twelve or fifteen persons
present. Adolphe w'as thrown into the mesmeric sleep
(so called) in a minute or two by the lixed gaze of Mr.
Vernon. Soon after. Ids eyes were closely bandaged with
paels of cotton wool and tlmec silk handkerchiefs, by Mr.
Ottlcy, iuid apparently very clfectuidly. Some playing-
cards were then ])ut into his hands, given to Mr. Vernon
by myself. Adolphe twisted them about, and felt them
rapidly with his lingers—still keeping them wdthm the
sjihere of ordinary vision. Some of the cards he named
accurately, some inaccurately, but still approximating the
tnith; others he entirely mistook. He was then (still
bandaged) set to play dciude. He played mueh more ac-
curately than it seemed possible for a lilind man to play
making, however, frecpient gross mistakes. He, as well
as Mr. Vernon, was evidently dissatisfied with Ids perfor-
mance, and he was therefore demesmerised, and taken for
a short time into the other room (divided by folding doors,
o])cn), and agam mesmerised there. Ho wiis then brought
back into the room where the company was, and once
ADOLPHE. 35
more Imiulagcd. Tlic same performances were gone
llirough, and with more decided success, llie mistakes
being fewer, and the bits stronger. After a short hand
at 6carte, Mr. Venion projwscd that he (still bandaged,)
shoidd read a book and the Lancet jourmd, which liap-
pened to be on a table near, was placed before lum, with
the title-page uppermost. Ue placed lus hands rapitUy
over the large title, and looked at it earnestly in the at-
titude of one rcatUng, and then spelt the words accurately,
» The Lancet.” lie tunicd over a few pages rapidly un-
til he eame to the leading article of the jounuil, and again
rc<wl the Itirgc title,
**
llic L<uicct.
Adolphe having thus succeeded in playing tolerably well,
and liaving been (pur])Osely) lauded by those who stood
near for lus complete success in reading the two words
mentioned (“The Lancet”), Mr. V. then thought him
in a fair state for exhibiting liis powers of positive clair-
voyance, and accordingly some dozen articles were placed
before him, all carefully prepared, and all thoroughly en-
closing printed words (French), so that it was imp>miUe
for ordinary vision to reach these. They consisted of
small wooden boxes, common blank envelopes (one withm
another, like uests of boxes), and papers folded on them-
selves, so as to present some half dozen thicknesses of
jiaper ovcr the words, all sealed or gummed. Adolphe
took up some of these, and luuidled luid twisted them
about, placing them to liis breast and mouth, but ahnosl
immediately declared that he could not sec; and notwith-
standing the great apparent (assumed) sympathy, and po-
sitive kindness and encouragement he received from all
30 MESMERISM.
around him, he did not even proeeed so far as to make a
puess. Mr. Vernon, while admitting tl)e failure, admit-
ted also that Adolphe had had pcu-fectly fair play, and
that he had no obvious means of accounting for his
failure.
Trial C (Adolphe). —At Mr. OtUey's,
May 19, 18 15.
Several of the same paidy that had met at Dr. Forbes’s
again a.ssemhlcd, but fewer, there not being more than
six or eight present at any t ime. After the same pro-
ceeding as on the fonuer occasions, viz. a fixed stare for
a moment or so, Adolphe, showing first a seeming drowsy
nid-nodding state, suddenly let his head fall hack rather
foreibly on the top of the hack of the arm-chair in which
he M'as seated. He wius hamhiged by Mr. Oltley, as-
sisted by Dr. Shar])cy, and greater care was taken in
doing so (according to ])revious amingemcnt), es]iccially
by bringing the cotton on to the nose, and low down by
the side of the nose. The three bandiigcs were also very
carefidly applied, so that we had all strong grounds for
believing that it wiis hardly ]) 0,‘<.sible for Adolphe to see
in the natimd maimer. Cards were then taken to him
by !Mr. Vernon, and aftenvards by others, but he de-
clared he coidd sec nothing; and, notwithstanding all the
coaxing, &c., after many attempts he still could sec no-
thing. After a t ime he was demesmerised, and having
ADOLPHE. 37
been iillowod lo rost hoiuc time, he ^nus n-baiichifced cx-
nrtly iis helbir, and witli I lie. same result preeisely, i- c.
with total incapacity lo sec anything brought to him.
After the bandages were removed, we wished him to see
Kilh hh eyea what was in the room, but he kept his lids
partially closed, and deelaretl he eould see nothing. With
Mr. Venion’s eonsent, T opened the lid of one eye witli
my lingers, but still he deelared he could see nothing.
lie was again demesmerised, and it was then eon-
reded among us that he slioiihl he. juirposely bandaged
badly, ill order lo shew us if he shoiihl then have better
clairvoyance. Hut any fudher proceedings were ob-
jected to by *Mr. Vcnioii, and were not urgctl by us.
Trial D (Adolphe).— d/c. J ernons,
May -2t, 1815.
At the meeting at Mr. Olllcy’s, ou the l‘.Mh, on the
failure of Adolphe it was jmiposed by Mr. Venion that
we shoidd meet at his house ou Satiu’day, the 2 till, at
lialf-past two, and we were invited to bring with us the
sealed packets which were taken to Mr. Ott ley’s, but not
used.
On repairing to Duke street at the lime aiipoiiitcd, we
found the room almost tilled with ]iersons to witness the
performance, and that in place of being a ]irivate sitting,
us we exiiected, it was a public ouc. However we took
our places near the .seal of operation, with Mr. \ernon s
sanction.
4
MESMERISM.
:iS
Adolphe M'as now introduced, and was speedily stared
into the so-called sleej). Agenlleinan jiresent (Dr. Wigan)
came forward, and bandaged his eyes badly—so, at least.
Dr. Sharpey, Dr. Reid, and myself thought -and 1 im-
mediately stated our opinion to Dr. W., wariiiiig him that
we would not allow any residts to he genuine or vahd di;-
rived from the bandaging. Dr. W. hoMTver, considered
the bandaging to be at first elfectual, but soon changed
his mind on witnessing, as he allirmed, decided clforts
made by Adolphe (both by throwing the muscles of the
face into action, and by touehing the bandages repeat-
edly M'ith his hands) to change the original adjustment of
1 he baiuhiges.
However, so bamhiged, and after the manoeuvres wit-
nessed by Dr. AVigau, he jirocecded to play at his usual
game of ecarte with a gentleman said to be a good and
])Owerfid mesmeriscr (Mr. Thomson, I understood). A
few hands were played, and, 1 beheve, tolerably well, but
the cards were all thrown in the usual manner, with their
faces upwards, and within the sphere of orcUnary vision.
The bandages were then removed, and Mr. Ycnion re-
quested the boxes, scaled eiivelojies, &c. to be jiroduced,
and several of them were placed in the hands of Adolphe,
lie passed them rejieatcdly, one after another, through
his bauds, pressed them to his mouth, &e. but rejected
them all, one after another, declaring that he coidd not
sec their contents. lie, however, speedily gave the pre-
ference to a folded (but not thickly folded, andnotseded
or gummed) paper, prepared on the sj)ot by Dr. AVigan.
This he kcjit. long ui his hands, as if gating intently on
ADOLI’IIK. 39
if, then pressed to his nioutli, nose, &e.,and once or twiee
very sliijlitly unfolded it, but not suffieiently to expose
tlie eonfents. After a Ion" and paiiifid trial he srave up
the attempt, notwithstanding Dr. Wigan eneouraged him
by telling him the written words were eommon I'reneh
wf>rds used every day by liiinself. The failure was ad-
mitted to be complete.
II. Mr. Vernon s iMdy-Sommnnbulixt
On several occasions Mr. Vernon luid told me of the
extnwrdinary and great ]>owcrs of this person, lx)th as
to feats of simple elair\’oyancc, and ns to her cajmeity of
diagnosticating diseases, lie named it as a jH-eidiarity
of her clairvoyanee, that sheeoidd better read the words
tliat were enclosed in ojiake boxes than those which
were folded within ]iaper envelopes. He spoke of her
ability to do this as a eommon and notoriojis hiet that
coidd not in any way be giiinsayed ; and although he ex-
pressed himself tis never being certain that she wotdd
“ see” on any given occasion, he, s])oke of her doing so at
our purposed triid with the utmost eonfidenee, anil evi-
dently looked forward to her iierfonnanees as being
likely to make up for the failures of Adoli>hc.
Of her eapticity to discover diseases he spoke more cn-
thusiasticiJly still, and over and over agiun expressed an
anxious desire that I should bring a patient to her on
whom she might prove her diagnosticating powers.
This person, whose name 1 do not know, is apparently
-40 MKSMKRISM.
between 20 and ItO ;
she is jaiLlid, with good reatui'cs, a
\ndow, and reports lierseli’lo have been cured ol' a severe
local ilise;ise by mesmcrisni.
Trial 1] (The Ijauv).— Mr. I ernonx.
May 2 1, IS 15.
In order to meet the alleged peculiarity of this person’s
power of elairvoyance, 1 came prepared with closed boxes.
She wiusspeccbly thrown into t he .so-ealled inesincric sleep,
in which she lay while Mr. Vernon, stambng by her side,
cx|)lained aloud to the eoinjiany the peculiarities of her
niesinerie manifestations as to rigidity, coma, &c. All
these she speedily exhibited, esiieeially a tine theatriciJ
“ exfftxr" in the mode of an adoring Madoima, in which
M r. Vernon comjiared her to Lord Shrewsbury’s Exfalical.
After these various exhibitions had lasted a considerable,
time, she was asked by Mr. A’enion if she would try to
reiul in the boxes. On her assenting, they were |)resented
to her, viz., two small deal boxes, about three inches in
hmgth and half an inch deep, each contiuning a single
})rinted word in large letters. The boxes were of thin
materials, but closely titled and sealed. A third box (if
it may be so eidled,) consisted of an old red morocco spec-
taele-case, with the flap clo.sed and sealed. This con-
tained the following words in print, large and distinct,
and ]»laeed lengthwise in the ease;, ComHlhitioH medico-
Irgale sur qiiclqiicx riz/nes.” After exanduing them, she
THE LADY. 41
rejected the two wooden boxes, and took possession of
the speetacle ease. Tliis she pressed to her forehead, on
the top of her lu-ail, &c., witli api-arent deep consideration
and thou-htfulncss. .Vfter a time, she sunnnoued the
,,erson (myself) wlio luid placed the words in the box,
and wlio knew them, to her side. 1 went to her, and her
hand and mine were grasped in the mesmeriser s hand,
wliilc she eontinned to press the case on her forclieiul.
and to make (as it seemed) strennons efforts to pierce tlie
mystery within. At length she began to guess at letters,
aiul to ipiestion me in that style vulgarly cidled “ pump-
ing.” The trord, she said, had five letters, h:ul it not •:*
I said there icere five letters in (he box, and more. After
a time she said the word contained xeren letters; then
she made many assertions as to individuid letters and
their scf|ueiiccs. These guesses were taken down by Dr.
Reid, and were as follows
1. Five letters.
2. Seven letters altogether.
3. The word ends with an e.
4. There is an x in the word.
5. There is a c next to the e.
(). Two r’s (c c) one at the cud, one near the begin-
ning.
7. An i.
8 . Thinks the word is “ se/V/me”— at least it looks like
“ scieiiee.”
y. She secs clearly r, e, s, r; is not quite sure of the n,
but sees two iqmglit strokes.
All this took up a long time, probably nearly an hour.
1-2
MESMEKISM.
'I'tic case was then 0])enc(l, and the words produced. Be-
lore this w'!is ilone, liow'cvcr, slie liad said rejieatcdly (hat
il slie (ailed now' slie woidd (in licr mesmeric state) !in-
iiounce a day on which sIjc would be al)lc to read
cerlfiiiiti/ and at last slie announced (he day to he the
2 1st oC .1 line. She iireseribed the nature of (he box that
was to be seen throuf'h, viz., a dark-eoloiired leather-
eovered ease, siieh as is used to eontaiu jeweller^' and
small portraits; and wished one w’ord to be inclosed, not
too loiiff, and that only a few friends shoidd attend the
sitting along with myself.
Tui.vl F (The IjAJiv). —At Mr. rernon'x,
June 21st.
According t o ( he appoint ment projihet ieally fixed at t he
last sitting, 1 attended at the house No. 3G, Manehester-
btreet, lu-conipanied by a few friends, viz. J)rs. Shaqiey
and llisdon Bennett, Messrs. Ottley and Wells. After
some delay, the lady was thrown into the usual state, and,
having gone through the various jihascs pre-announced by
Mr. Vernon, such as coma, rigidity, exta.sy, &c., she jiro-
posed to read the contents of the boxes. I’reviously to
her doing so, however, Mr. Vernon let us know, inciden-
tally as it were, that success was not so certain on account
of some conditions as to jirevious mesmerising of the lady
by himself on a certain day not havhig heen strictly ful-
filled. But he did not seem to rest much on this cir-
THE L-^DT. 13
cunistanco, and the lady ])roccrdcd to her task. Slie rc-
f|ucsted tlic box to be given her wliieh contiiined the
sliortest word. This was accorduigly done by myself,
who alone knew the eoutents of any of the boxes on the
table. Tlie box given was one from whieh a small jior-
frait had been removed; it was four inehes sriuare, and
contained the single word “ so,” printed on white paper
in very bold letters, each an inch in length. Alter much
grasping and shullling about the box, and jtressing it tong
on the forehead, she annoiineed that the word was oneol
six letters; and then, alter long interviUs, anil in the
usual guessing, inquiring
—“pumping”—style,announeed
the letters lirst seen to be—lirst e, then a, then*, ^he
was told u[)on repeatedly expressing a desire to know the
truth, that there was not an e in the word ;
and, alter a
considerable j)eriod, having been told that her other
guesses were not more fortunate, she resigned the task
as far as regarded that box.
It was proposed that she shoidd attempt another 1k)X,
(there were live in all on the table,) and after being taken
out of the room in the so-called sleep-waking state fur
some time, and brought back ag-ain and freshly mesme-
rised, she attem])ted another box of the siune kind, 3
inehes by 2.J in size. This box contained the word “ So-
ciety'' printed in good large cajiitals on white paper.
After the usual manipulations, and long pressure of the
box on the forehead, and having had, at her request, my
hand placed along with her own in the mesmerist s Inuids,
she at last “saw” the following letters, anuouncuig them
in the following order, but not asserting that tliis was
H MESMERISM.
tlicir order in tlic box e, r, s, a. Tlic lioxcs were llicii
unsealed and 0])ened in 1 lie presence of the persons iis-
scinbled, and the real letters and words cxliibited.
Trial G (The Lady).—Jtuie 21, at J/r. Vernon's (same
erening as the Trial F.)
Mr. Vcnion bavin" repeatedly expressed his wishes
that I should briii" a patient to this lady, to test her
diiignostic ])Owers, which he spoke of as almost infallible,
I took with me on this occasion a yonii" man known to
me for years, and with the state of whose hcidth 1 was
well iicfpiainted. lie was, in fact, in verj" prood health,
except that he had long laboured under enormously
large varices of the veins of the legs. These were so
large that it would bo very eiusy to detect them by [)res-
sure through the clothes, and, therefore, to guard
jigainst this, ho wiis requested to wear trousers and long
boots. The somnambulist proceeded to feel the patient’s
body all over, j)assing slightly over the lower extremities,
and resting chiefly on the chest and abdomen. After a
considerable time so occupied, she announced a variety
of affections and symptoms as constituting his malady,
such as a weakness of stomach, palpitation, breathless-
ness, great irritation of nerves, &c. &c. Fearing that it
mi"ht be afterwards alleged that the varicose condition of
the veins wiis not a disease, I mpicsted her to direct at-
tention to the surface of the body, telling her dislinetly,
without letting hw know that he had no internal tliscase,
MISS VON GONNERN. 45
iluit lie liild a local disease on the surface of his body. She,
however, made no aiuionnceincnt of the aetind afl'cetionj
or of any ot her disease of the surface. Upon beiii" asked
by the inesnieriscr what woidd cure the diseases she had
declared the patient to he suileriii" from, she rcjilied that
he (iMr. Yernon) knew what would do him fjood—viz.,
mesmerism. The young man, on being afterwards rpies-
tioned by Mr. Vernon as to his heidlh, declared that he
had not had a hciuiache, or been in any way unwell, for
years, except from his swelled legs.
III. Frdulein Jon Gonuent.
In the sjiringof thcjiresent year (IS 15) advertisements
appeared in the public prints, announeing the annval of
this lady in London, and her intention to examine and pre-
scribe (mesmerieally) for patients either at her own or at
the ])atients’ houses; the fee to be ]>aid being, in thelormer
case, thri'c guineas, and in the latter six. In the same
advertisement some womlerful cures were announced as
|)erfonued by her, such as the cure of blindness, in.sanity,
&'C. Her brother, with whom she travelled, and who is
her mesmeriser, called on me, and exjiressed a strong de.
sire, that 1 should visit his sister, and witness her powers,
which he described as infallible, both in the diagnosis and
treatment of diseases. On being assured that the sitting
should be [irivate, 1 waited on iliss Von Gbnueni at her
lodgings. 1 found her to be an agreeable young damsel
of some twenty or twenty-live years of age. No one was
if) MESMEUISM.
present but lier brollier. lie informed me tliat his sister
was possessed ol tlic ordinary power of eommon elairvoy-
ance, and liad formerly exliibited some wonderful feats in
Ibis line; but tlial, now, she |)re.ferred exereisini^ her
powers ill a more useful manner, namely, in aseerlaining
and ciiriiif' diseases. He, however, offered to mesmerise
lier, and said that we must t hen be eonlent with wliatever
she chose to do, whether in the way of simple clairvoy-
ance, or othenvise.
Tkj/VX II. —(Miss VON G.)
Mr. Von Gdiuicrn, in proceeding to mesmerise his sis-
ter, ])laced her in the rccuinbent ])ostnre on a sofa. A
few jiasscs threw her into tlie so-called mesmerie sleep.
.\fler a short time, while still in the reeumbent posture,
she began gesticulating with lier arms, and pointing with
her (ingi'rs in a very remarkable manner; slie then raised
herself from the sofa, and proceeded to execute a series
of most eoni])lex and elaborate, and, at the same time,
very gracefid and ini])Osing gesticidations, with her arms
often stretched out at full length, and then gracefidly re-
tracted, with the fingers expanded, and slowly brought
into contact with diUerent parts of her o\ni body, as if
mesmerising herself. After a time, she included my body
ill the sphere of her manipulations, iiointing to and toneh-
ing, and grasping my head, chest, &c., in a very art istieid
fashion. This done, she gradually and gracefully retreated
to the sofa, and then poured forth her revelations in a
MISS VON GONXERN. 17
continuous oration or discourse, with tlic eyes closed,
and tlic hciul waving in a very theatrical style. Although
I had not stated tliat I was at all out of health, and al-
though I am not aware that I looked so, she seemed to
take it for granted that such was the ca.se, and, besides
some less dehnite sjmiptoms, slie declared t hat 1 laboured
under two formal diseases, which she named,—the one a
locid idTcctiou, the other a const itutiomd one; the latter
at present latent, but to be spccilily developed, unless a
certain jitisan, to be prescribed by my fair physician, was
had recourse to. She also pronounced judgment of the
actmd and relative powers of some of my principid organs,
and, on being questioned, g:ive me some luiatomicid, jia-
thologiciU, ami etiological details as to the local malatly
she attributed to me. She then said she w;is fatigued,
and requested to be awakened.
The process of awakening being, by her o\vn spcciliea-
tion, by fire, “ par Ic feu,” this was carried into execution
by a lighted paper-match being waved before her face.
On awiddng she professed totid ignorance of what hiul
passed during her tniiice, and ex])ressed much apparent
surprise on being told that she had been discovering my
midadies, and prescribing for them. Witli respect to
these said niidatUcs, I am thankful to say that they ex-
isted altogether ui my hiir physician’s imagination. 1
may also say that she was uufcrtunatc in her judgment of
the strength of some of the organs she named, their rcLa-
tivc ])owers and soundness being, iis lar iis 1 can judge,
the reverse of her statement. Her anatomy was not
MKSMEUIRM.
48
ninro iioounitc, boiii" an embodying of tlic vidgar noiions
of tlio animal simcturc.
Trial I. — (^fiss von G.)
t visilcd ilm lady again on ibe following day. Sim wa.s
me.snuTis(;d a.s licforc ;
and after going tbrongli tlmsanm
jirepanilory processes, she jiroceededto unfold her s])len-
did intentions towards my nnworthy self, in a continuous
strain of elo(picnt declamation. In the tirst jilace she as-
sured me that all the sonmambidists heretofore seen by
me were impostors, and she was the only tnie one 1 had
yet met with. She then jirocecded to say, after a most
llattering eulogy on my mental endowments—in which,
as in my bodily powers, she took the weak for the strong
—that, although already i\ f/md man^ she would make me
one of the greatest of men, if 1 followed her counsels.
This magnifying w'as to take jilacc through the instru-
mentality of certain medicinal plants, six in number,
know'll to her, but unknown to all t he world besides ;
which plants w'cre true |)anaceas, being curative of all
diseases, and the knowledge of which she oJfered to com-
municate to me. Before, however, this momentous reve-
lation was made, and while I was still expressing my gra-
titude for its being vouchsafed to me, of all mankind, my
fair benefactress declared that she was fatigued, and re-
quested to be forthwith awakened once more by fire. As
J ])aid no more visits to the Friiidein, I know not whether
MISS VOX GOXXEUX. 40
the revelation of the six roots liiis been made to some
more fortunate person tluin myscU ;
but I believe she is
still professing her art in Loiulon.
One other cireumstanee respecting the performances
of this lady 1 sliall here state, although 1 was no further
personally conccnicd in it than being appealed to by the
patient’s husband to the qualilicatious of the Fnudein.
I can, however, vouch for the truth of the statements, ;is
they were nnulc to me by the |)hysieiau consulted on the
occasion. The patient, a huly of rank, went with her
husband to considt Miss VonOonnern, on account of be-
ing in delicate health. The lady W!is declared by the tair
somnambulist to be pregnant, and that the placenta was
placed in an abnormal position
—“ too far Inick,” she sjiid.
On the following day the lady received a written commu-
nication from her somnambulist, to the elfect that, since
the visit, she (Von Gbimeru) Inul, in her soiniuimbulic
state, seen what was rerpusite to be done, and would
now, for the consideration of another fee, chamje the
malposition of the placenta, and thus avert the iinpemhng
danger! These things seeming nithcr alanning, the
family physicum, my informant, was consulted, and it
turned out that the lady w:is not pregnant at idl, the
catamenia having made their appearance a few days iifler-
warils
a
50 MESMERISM.
Rem^uiks,
In taking <hc trouble to investigate these eases, 1, of
eonrse, wislied to arrive at some ])ositive or trustworthy
resiilts, if such were attainable. In such an investigation,
1 bad no right, to take anything for granted; hut I was
prepared, 1 trust, to receive everything as true which
coidd he proved, or as probable which had probable evi-
dence in its favour,—whether such things were or were
not ill accordaucc wit h any jircvious opinions 1 might en-
tertain. So far, therefore, from tliinking it ueccssary t o
make an apology for doubting or disbelieving things
which the mesmerists M'ith whom 1 had to do looked
upon as ordinary matters of fact, I regarded it as an im-
])erative duty in one honestly searchuig for truth, under
the circumstances in (picstion, to doubt and disbelieve
everything that wius not jiroved, or that had not, at least,
probable evidence to support it. Where so much impos-
ture has prevailed, and still prevails, according to the
testimony of the mesmerists themselves, it would be alto-
gether unjustifiable to receive as authority any mere as-
sertion of any |)arty concerned in such exhibitions, or to
admit as positive matter of fact whatever merely a])peared
to be so. Here, as elsewhere. Truth, if she have fair
jilay, will vindicate herself in s])itc of theories or preju-
dices ;
but she has no right to expect more than fair play
here, any more than elsewhere.
KEilAllKS. 51
1. In tlic first place, then, I would remark, in retrard
to tlie three? individuals whose perronnances are above
described, that there existed not only no proof, but no
probable cviilcnce, that they were really in a mesmerised
condition at all, —in other words, that they only pretended
to l)c so, and were, consequently, imixistors. The whole
of their proceedings and demeanour, after rousing them-
selves from tlie short seeming slumber, were exactly those
of a person awake (with the exception of the eyes licing
more or less closed), or were, at least, such as any person
could assume. And, according to my own judgment, and
that of the friends jiresent with me, the pniceedings were
much more like those of persons in t he normal state nhaiH-
mitiff, than like those of jiersons in a simply morbid or
anormal eoiulition of the mind and l)ody. .;\jul I now learn
from the mesmerisers themselves (and from Dr. Engleduc
himself among others) that there really exists no tent of the
mesmeric state, at le:ist no test that can lie made available
for those who doubt, and who require something like posi-
tive evidence before they admit as truth things most ex-
Iniordiimry in themselves and at variance with Jill pre-
vious exiterieuce. Conclusions deduced from the mere
phenomena or appearances, in such cjuses, rest altogether
on an jissmnption which we have no right to grant —viz.,
that the somnambulists are honest, and not shamming.
Mr. Veniou says, he docs not think that one in ten shows
insensibility of the pupil to light. In this state of things
the only test of the reality of the state would seem to Ix',
the performance of some iwts by the alleged somiuunbid-
ists wliich it is impossible for persons not in tliis state to
52 MESMEH1SM.
perform; o. g. flic art of clairvoyance in some of its
loniis ;
and I tliink it will liardly be doubted by any im-
])artial |)crson, wlio reads the whole of the present pajier,
that in the trials above described no such test was
sujiplicd.
2. The oidy oeeun’ence reported in these trials that
bore even (he semblance of an ap|)roach towards claiivoy-
anee, is that notie(;d in the first exhibition of Adolphe
(Trial A), where the word “Maschalla^’ was apparently
read or nearly read by him while in the state of so-called
somnambulism. 15ut I reject this as affording anything
like evidence of true clairvoyance, on the two folloM-ing
grounds ; —First, because we had no proof that there was
not collusion befween the somnandndist and some party
aeipiainted with the coiif cuts of the paper; and secondly,
admitting lhat there was no such collusion, because there
exists no evidence that the word could not be read
through the paper by ordinary vision.
'flic first of these arguments is, of course, only valid
to myself, or others similarly circumstanced. It would
be allog(,“lhcr invalid to the gentleman who wrote the
word, and presented the paper, and on whose fmnicss I
beg here distinctly to state that! throw no imimtation.
I merely assert, that to render such evideuce of any
value, collusion must have been proved to be im])ossiblc;
and, as this w;us not so proved to me, or to my friends,
we arc authorised in rejecting the testimony.
3. But the valklity of the second argument mu.st be
admitted by all. I examined the ])aper on which “ A/rw-
chalta” was written, and 1 assert that the folds of paper
IIEMAUKS. 53
interposed between the word and the eye did not seem to
mo more munerous, nor the paper thieker, tlian in some
other instances in which ordinary vision sntlieed to read
words similarly enclosed. As tliis is an imjmrtant fact
in relation to the general subject of clairvoyance, as prac-
tised by cxliibitiug somuambidists, I will mention the cir-
ciunstancc which first called my attention to it.
In one of the i)ublic cxliibitions of Adolphe, at which
I was not iwescut, Mr. Ottley presented to him a sealed
cnvelo])C enclosing several folds of paper, hi the interior
one of wliich the word “ Touloti' was written. After
much assistance from Mr. Ottley (so much, indeed, as to
reduce, in my judgment, the whole process—even if the
envelope had been idtogether opakc to, at most, a clever
guess) the somnambulist announced t he word to be, what
if, wiis,—“ Toulon.” Mr. Ottley showed me the identi-
cal imper on the following day. On examining it, I not
only could not re:ul the word enclosed, but I thought at
the" time that it was imjiossiblc for any ordinary vision to
do so. 1, however, (iis 1 then told Mr. Ottley,) could not
admit, even if it had proved true that ordinary vision
could not decipher the word, after the great assistance
"iven by him to Adolphe, that the decipherhig the word
bv him was any )iroof of clain oyanec. Hut all ditfieulty
o( explanation was soon removed by the fact, that ordi-
nary vision could and (ltd read this very word witliin its
envelope ! A lady, to whom the paper was shown, de-
iMpheredthe word at once, without mesmerism, or any
other power than her natural eyesight. Tliis was done
bv holduig the paper in a particidar manner so that the
5 §
MKSMEKISM.
5i
fell ol)lif|Ucly on llic under surface, and was re-
flected llirough it ii])wards 1o flic eye. And this lady
succeeded in thus reading, through equally niiiuerous
folds of ])a])cr, words written in much smaller character
than this word Tunhn. Since Mr. Ottley acquainted me
with this fact, I have tried the experiment myself, and
find that, in this manner, I and others can read very well
through four or live folds of lctter-])a])er of medium tliiek-
ncss; that is, witli three folds in front and two behind.
In the only two other instances within my own know-
ledge, besides this of “Toulon,” in which any aj)proach
to accuracy of reading was made (once by Alexis, once
by Adolphe), the folds of ))aper were not more than four
or five; while 1 can fe.stify from observation that cover-
ings vastly thinner have been and are itnppoml to be suf-
ficient to preehidc all chance of ordinary vision. On one
occasion, I Sc'iw a |)aj)er handed up to Adol])he which
wius folded on itself once only, so that there, was only a
single thickness of ]iaper between the written word and
the eye, and yet the gentleman j)re.senting it, I verily be-
lieve, thought he was iissksting at a legitimate exj)erimcnt!
This fact sutlicicntly shows the utter uiditiiess of .some
])crsons to conduet. any sort of investigation, well illus-
trates the kind of ]>roof that ]>a.sses at mesmeric exhibi-
tions, and justifies the scepticism of those who refuse to
admit all testimony authenticated only by evidence of
this sort.
This deciphering of the word “ Toulon" was regarded
at the time by the major ])art of the eomjiany present as
a striking evidence of the truth of clanToyance, and has
REMARKS. 55
been, and I doubt not still is, triunipliantly advanced by
Mr. Venion as sucli.
Since I liave acquired the knowledge of the sulTicicucy
of ordinarj' vision to read through a greater tliickness of
paper than I was liefore aware of, I ha\e rccjillcd to iny
recollection several particulars of the conduct of the
soinuainbidists which a]>pear to have relation to tliis fact.
Tlie ])osition in which they placed the papers to be
read was vciy- frequently tliat which is foimd to be the
best for trausniitting the light through them—viz. an
oblifpie ])osition in relation to the eye. It was silso ob-
served in the case of both the brothers, Alexis and
Ailolphc, that when the choice w;is left to themselves,
they idways selected folded papers in preference to closed
bo.xcs; and on more than one occ.ision I remembered
that they giive the preference to the papers that were
thinnest, or had the fewest folds.
•t. It is, however, but fair to the mesmeiTsts to admit
that the cliiss ofciisesnow under coiisider.it ion may allow
of ail e.xplanation more favorable to their views than
that just given, alllioiigh coniiiig far short of their general
]iret elisions. W’e inayidlow, for instance, the possibility
at leiLst, —wc may even admit the probability,—of a per-
son ill a mesmerised state (lulmittiiig tlic reidity of this)
liaviiig his sense of vision so sharpeneil as to ciialilc him
to see throiigli a tninsliiceiit medium which was inqicni-
ous to ordinar)' vision. Such a thing would be cx|)lieablc
oil the jiriiiciitles of orilinarj- science ; it is a thing, how-
ever, idlogetlicr dilferent from the alleged fact of such
persons seeing through thick boxes, or other bodies eii-
MESMERISM.
.50
tircly opakc. Tlic first, as I have said, might be adniit-
f ed as very possil)le, if not very prol)able ;
t lie lat ter seems
allogetlier impossible, aeeordingto tlie aetiial state ofoiu-
knowledge of the laws of physiology and of jihysies. The
eircumstances above mentioned, however, throw great
doubt on the theory that, in the oases where somnam-
bidists //tfpc succeeded in deciphering words or pod ions
of words, -withiu folded jiapers—and they have a])])arently
sueeeeded in doing so in some eases—they succeeded
through an exaltation of the power of ordinary vision :
that they have ever succeeded in reading through an ojiakc
medium or a thick box is yet to be proved ;
and 1 believe
caiuiot be proved.
5. All the pcrfornianccs of Adolphe with his eyes ban-
daged, and all his feats with cards, arc utterly valueless,
as ]>roofs of clairvoyance. Indeed, I always regarded the
card-])laying exhibitions of him and his brother Alexis, so
inadmissible as evidence, that I tolerated them merely to
avoid the chance, or excuse, of giving otfence to the mes-
mcri.scr, or di.scouraging the mesmerised. The facility of
“ ])laying tricks” afforded by cards—the .stajilc of the
\nilgar conjuror — furnishes sutRcient excuse for rejecting
all evidence derived from them. Ibit, even if the feats at
cards were admissible as evidence, we have of her sutlicicut
reasons for utterly rejecting all performances with the
eyes bandaged, as proof of clairvoyance.
It is well known to be ext remely diflicult so to bandage
the eyes :us to prevent all vision downwards by the side of
the nose, free sco])c being left (as must always be the ciuse)
to the action of the eyelids and muscles of the face to
REM.UIKS. 57
disturb the padding and bandaging. Tin's fact has been
]m)ved, over and over agaui, ui individuals bandiigcd as
closely as the professed soinnainbulists usually are. It
no doubt may be possible so to bandage as to make sight
impossible. It is believed that this was the case in Tried
(C) of Adolphe; and the result wiis the total absence of
an\lhing like clairvoyance. .<Vnd many things occurred
ill the C!ises both of Alexis and Adolphe wliich render it
extremely |)robable—to say the least—that in idl the in-
stances in which they saw while bandaged, they saw with
the eyes, by ordinary vision from luidenicath, not through
their bandages. The following are some of the groiuuls
on which this belief is founded ;
a. It was always observable that both these young
incii made use of certain inaiuemTcs cidcidated to prevent
elfeetive bandaging, in the first instance; or aftenvards to
disturb it, if it h:ul been nuule eirective. In the ease of
Adoljihe, it was noticed, at every sitting, that, while the
bamhige w:is being placed across his eyes and hesul, he
invariably, bofore the knot was tied, or the bandage drawn
tight, put up his hands, one on each side, and pressed the ban-
dage against the temples, and kept them there until the knot
was tied. The elfeet of t his inanauivre, whet her int ended
to be so or not, certainly was, to keep the bandage from
being drawn tight as the ]K)rtion anterior to the temples,
where tlie lingers were pressed, woidtl be unafTected by
any tightening posterior to the iioints pressed on. Of
course, such a proceeding woidd give facility to the som-
nambulist to modify the position of the bandages and
58 MESIIEUISM.
foLton, in sucliwisc as to afford a hotter chance of seeing
with the eyes from underncalli the bamhufc. 1 wiis the
more struck with this man(ru\TC, in the cjusc of Adoljdic,
l)eeausc it was invariably made use of also by Alexis.
Hot h t lie brothers likcfl-ise executed it in a verj' quiet but
ojien and unsuspicious manner, as if it were a natund im-
pidse to rebeve the uneasiness of pressure. It micjht lie
so indeed, but the invariablcncss of its performance, and
its being invariably perfomed in the same manner by
both brothers, and the obvious utility of the tiling, on the
theory of inqiosition, all give it a consideralilc degree of
inqiortance in such an investigation. It was with this
impression on our minds that it was ])redetcrmincd at
I he sitting at Mr. Ottlcy’s (C), to counteract its influence,
if real, by superior care in performing the bandaging. And
the result obtained, certainly strengthened greatly the
probability of our thcorjq since, on this occasion, luid on
thin occamm ontj/, no visional manifestations occuiTcd ! At
the subsequent sitting (D)thc bandaging w'as performed,
as stated, by a different hand, not aware of our theory
the tenqilc-prcssing mameuvre which w'c w'crc .all looking
for took jilace jircciscly as before, and Adoljihc played
ecart e beautifidly
h. In addition to this imperfect bandaging, in the first
instance, it w'as cust omary for Adoljihc and Ale.xis subse-
quently to disturb the bandages by now and then touch-
ing them with the hands; and they were idso seen, at
times, to make marked efforts with the facial muscles, an
if to alter t he state of the bandages. This might or might
KEMAKKS. 59
not have been so —but, at any rate, the thing, to say
the Iciist, is very suspicious, and tends to vitiate the ex-
j)crimcnt.
c. On tlic occasions n licre the ])crfonnances were un-
satisfactory, it was the custom for Mr. Vernon to uc-
niesmcriscAdolphc, and have liim re-bandaged. This j)lan,
of course, gave the chance of less ctrcctivc bandaging,*
and tlic result sometimes was, that Adolphe saw much
l)ctter on the second than on the first attempt ; where ef-
fective bandjg'iug was adopted the second time (iis in
C) tlic result was crpially uiauspieious as before. At
Mr. Ottlcy’s we had planned a little stratagem which
might have thromi more light on lids point, if it hiul
been carried into ell'ect. We jiroposed that .\dolpc, on
being demesmerised the second time, should on the third
occasion, be bandaged badly on purpose anticipating the,
likelihood of good sight and capital |)crformancc being
the rcsidt: but Mr. Vemou objected to the repetition of
the trial, and we did not jiress it.
(). In all the jicrfonnances with the cards it was re-
markable that the objects “seen” were in the h'nc of vi-
sion from under the loicer edge of the bandage, and not in
the line direct from the eyes through the bandage: and
no objects were ever “seen” beyond or out of the first-
named sphere of vision. T’hc inference from tliis is
obvious.
7. The great discrcimncy among mesmerists, as to the
capacity of their somnambulists to hold coimmudon with
persons not en rapport with them, or to receive extenial
• It g.ivf also, of course, the chanee of more cnTcctive lundaging.
GO MESMERISM.
impressions on the senses, is in itself a very remarkal)lc
cirenmstanee, unci one not a little suspicions. 1 only no-
tice it here, however, in reference to the epuistion of the
rcuhty or non-reality of the soinnainhnlistic state in the
case of the individuals concerned in the ahovc-nientioned
trials. In the instances of Adolphe, Alexis, and Von
Goimcni, the nie.smeri.sers admitted that the sense of hear-
ing was open to any speaker whedher in relation with
them or not. In the ca,se of one of Mr. lirookes’ som-
nambulists, whom I saw, Mr. Brookes nuuntained that
she was altogether nnconscions of what was said around
her, in the loudest lone ;
and when any of the parly
wished verbally to connnnnieate directly with her, Mr. B.
demenmerised one ear for the jmrposc ! This he conde-
scended to do for me, and the lady then heard excellently
well everything 1 said, though ])reviously she would hear
nothing ! In the case of Mr. Aumion’s lady-somnam-
bulist, (Trial E,) Mr. N assured us that she was, in her
mesmeric state, cpiitc insensible to all that Avas said
around her, and jicrmiticd us to speak aloud close by her
while she Avas slriAong to read in my boxes. lloAvcver,
Avc had positive jiroof in this ease that Air. AVrnon, to
say the least, Avas mistaken, as, Avhen she Avas olf her
guard, I repeatedly asked her cpiestions, or made obser-
vations to her, to Avhieh she distinctly and correctly re-
plied ! This little stratagem Avas pni’jioscly contrived to
test the reality of the alleged in.scnsibility ;
and the satis-
factory rcsidts Avcrc repeatedly Avitnessed by Dr. Sharjccy,
as AA'cll as myself.
8. It Avill not escape the observation of the rcadci’s of
the preceding narrative, particidarly of the Trieds E, E, G
REIIAEKS. f)l
and H, tliat of the failures exhibited and mistakes commit-
ted by the professing seers, several were of & positive kind
and therefore inca|)ablc of being explained away by tlie
favorite argument of the mesmerists—“that the jiowcr,
was not on the somuiunbulist at the time, and tliat a ne-
gative jirovcs nothing.” This argument must, no doubt,
be admitted as valid in cases of simple non-success, where
the results are null; but it is idtogcthcr inajiplicable to
the positive and most glaring matters of fact, committed
by these people.
The misspelling of a word, or the oidy partial reading
of it, —or the mistake of one letter for .mother or indeed
any httle error of this kind, would not be considered by a
fair judge as seriously, if at all, detracting from the
strength of the evidence ;
but wheu we see such blunders
committed as in Trial F, where a word of two letters,
each an inch square, was “seen” to be conqioscd of six,
and eutirely dilfcrent letters substituted for those ae-tually
present, we cannot explain the circumstance by any con-
ceivable jiroccss, not inculpiiting the honesty and good
faith of the party. In like manner, when we find, as in
the Trials F, G, and H, the most obvious diseases over-
looked, and others attributed which have no existence,
we cannot avoid coining to the same conclusion.
y. The impositions attempted by Miss Von Gonnern,
in reference to her panace.as, arc so monstrous, and so
pidpablc as to speak for t heinselvcs. The Avonder is, that
she could ever have expected to find any one sufficiently
credidous to believe her ;
.and yet she must have expected
this. I presmne that if she had encountered such a dupe,
6
MESMEIUSM.
f)2
licr brother would have taken "ood rare that tlic impor-
laiit revelation slioidd not be eompleted witliont a “con-
sideration” on the part of the fortunate rcci])icnt.
The following general conelnsions seem dcdncible from
!iU that precedes, and will not, I tliink, be questioned by
any inqnirtial judge :
I. That sonic of the exhibitions above described bear
the o])cn and immistakablc inqircssion of imposture.
II. That in all the cases, as in that of Alexis formerly
pnbli.shed, (sec 1''ih.st Series,) wherever there resulted
any positive success, the fact can be accoimted for on ordi-
nary priucijiles, without the aid of mesmerism.
III. That all the instances of success occurred where
there was, at least, a jiossibility of succeeding, by the or-
dinary exercise of the sensiis in their normal state.
1\^ That where care was taken to render the ordinary
ojicration of the senses ini|)ossible, failure invariably
residtcd.
V. That the '1'rials failed utterly in proving the pos-
session of CLAIRVOYANCE by any of the parties submitted
to examination.
VI. That no proof was ail'orded t hat these jiarties were
really in any speciid abnormal condition, such as is known
by the name of somnambulism.
VII. That, on the contrary, the evidence adduced
renders it extremely jirobable that the apjiarcnt abnor-
mal condition was feigned, and that these persons were,
consequently, IjirosTOKS.
GEORGE GOBLE.
When coinjilctiiig my notes of some recent mesmerie
triiil.'s, pul)lisliecl in ‘The Meclicjil Gazette’ tlic ISth of last
montli, (Second Series,) I liad no intention of giving my-
self tanv more trouble on tlic subject, at le.ast for some time
1 0 come. I was i ndecd so disgust eil wit h t he many successive
impositions I had had to exjiose, that I was determined to
let this new fraternity of mountebanks—the itinerant mes-
merists—])rocccd on their course without further molesta-
tion on my part. If the public still chose tobe gidled by
such arrant clicats as 1 had had to deal with, in spite of
the numerous warnings they had received, it was their own
atl'air ; and it seemed no one’s special business to interfere
between them and their enjoyments. At least, 1 felt
that I had no particular call to do so. 1 hail not, however,
given up all intention of inrpuring further into the pheno-
mena and facts of mesmerism; ;uul, therefore, on receiv-
ing fnim a most resjicetablc (piarter a pressing invitation
to renew my iiKpuries in this tield, 1 did not hesitate to
accept it. The object of the present paper is to commu-
(it MESMERISM.
nicate tlic results obtained in this new trial witli the
mesmerists.
Outlie 29thof last montli (Julyl845,) I reeeived the fol-
lowing letterby post. The writer wius atthe time personally
rmknomi to me, but 1 learned from a friend that he was a
gentleman of high respeetability ;
and my sidiserpient hi-
tereourse with him has only served to eonfinn the accu-
raey of the statement. In the [iresent narrative I shall
sjieak of this gentleman under the name of A. B., as the
publication of his real name might be unpleasant to him;
and Ids extreme civility and fairness, during the whole
course of our proceedings, well entitle him to every cour-
tesy at my hands. It is hardly necessary to add that, in
the tlisgraceful imposition which it is my business to cx-
])ose, he u’as no further blamcable than in allowing his
good-nature and honesty to be too easily imiiosed on.
Jlis extreme facility and credulity are hardly chargeable
on himself individually, as these seem iidierent attributes
of the genus Mesmerist.
Lellcr from Mr. A. B. to Dr. Forbes.
“ Sir, —Assuinmg that you, like myself, seek oidy to
ascertain the very truth on the disputed cpiestion of clair-
voyance, and that you M'ill invest igate it not as an advo-
cate seeking to make out a plausible case on one side, but
as a judge looking for the right, and 'wiHing to decide ac-
cording to the fciir ndcs of evidence, 1 take the liberty of
GEORGE GOBLE. G5
invitiii" you to make triiil of a case of alleged clairvoyance
which I can produce to you.
“ I should state that I have no personal interest in the
matter; I am merely actmded by an honest spirit of in-
quiry, and seek the truth and the tnith oidy. I should
be equally pleased could mesmerism and its phenomena
be proved to be false as if they were shown to be true :
I oiUy desire to learn what is true, and that the tnith,
when ascertained, should be proclaimed. I am no prac-
titioner of it in any shape. My profession is tliat of a
barrister.
“ I have in my employ a boy who has, or appears to
have, the faculty called elairv'oyauee; that is, he can, when
mesmerised, perceive objects imperce|)tible to persons in
the ordinary state. He has many times rejul to me and to
otliers words WTupped in many folds of thick pa[)cr, and
enclosed in a card-case.
“ I ask you to see this boy, to test liim yourself, fairly
and thorouglily, and ascertain the fact by your own per-
sonal iuvestigatiou. If you will name any moniing lie-
fore Frklay of the present week, you shall see him at my
chiuubcrs, luid make the experiment.
“ But to ensure a fair trial, I must impose the follow-
ing conditions :
“ 1st. You shall bring with you two or three packets,
each containing a word or figures, or a jiicture, wrajiped
in four folds of thick brown paper, sealed ;
and wliich 1
wish you to prepare at home, that you may be assured
beyond question that the contents are known to nobody
but yourself.
f,§
GO MESMERISM.
“ 2(1. The words nr figures sliiill be printed, not writ-
ten, t he boy being illiterate. Tlie -word ,sh;dl be in caj)i-
lal letters, and not one that is likely in itself to jmzzlcan
illiterate reader; the liguresto be ui ty|)o of a good size.
The number of letters in the word not to e.\ceed eight
the nninber of figures not to e.xeccd four. The packet
M ill be plaeed in a eard-easc of M ood, M'hieh I M ill ])ro-
duce, and M liieli you may seal also, to ensure that it is not
opened.
“ 3d. Inasmueli as the faeulty is all'eeted by states of
health, or some cireunistanees not knoM'ii, a formal jndg.
ment cujauid him not to be })ronounced until after triid
on three several days, lie /uin never onre failed yel, but
he may do so, for the reasons named above.
“4th. That if he suceeeds you slniU atbnit and attest
the fact.
“ 5th. That one friend of mine and one friend of yours
only shall be present, and that each shall take a note of
the experiimmt, mIucIi shall be embodied into one, and
signed by all of ns (if m’c iigree) before m'c leave the
chambers ;
and that you shall publish such note in a
medical journal, M’ith any comments you may pleiise.
“ 1 impose these conditions, because 1 can only pro-
fess that he shall aecomj)lish Mhat 1 have seen him per-
form. 1 do not ktmo that he might not read M'riting, or
sentences ;
but as mc arc utterly ignorant of the condi-
tions luuler Mliicli the faculty acts, it is safe to try that
only M’hieh has been done successfully before.
“ 1 shall aftcrM’ards be ha])j)y to iissist you in tryuig
any other c.xperimcuts you may suggest.
GEORGE GOBLE. 67
“ But this, if done, establishes the existence of a fa-
culty of perception cUstinct from the organ of vision, and
that is all we can yet alfirm. A reply, naming the day
and hour, will obhgc.
Sir,
Your obedient senant,
*
Temple; mh July, 18i5.”
I %vrote in rc])ly, that I would gladly avail myself of
!Mr. .V. B.’s polite offer. Accordingly, I wiiiled on him
at his chambers on the following day, witli the view of
agreeing on the terms, and of arranging a meeting for
the foniud invest igsition of the case. I did not come
j)repared to enter on the inquiry then, but as the boy was
at this very time in the chambers, and as Mr. B. cx-
jwessed a desire that 1 should witness his jmwers at once,
it was agreed that we shoidd nnike the best extemporary
arrangeincut s we eordd, for fairly testing them. Of their
immediate demonstration before me Mr. A. B. seemed to
cutertiiin no doubt whatever, any more than of their
])revious exertion on numerous occasions in his ]»rcscnee,
under circumstiuiccs where, he said, there could be no
collusion, cheat, or mistake.
The following luhlitional account of the l)oy is extracted
from the jounud called ‘
The Critic,’ one of the organs of
mesmerism; it expresses precisely the opinion stated to
me by Mr. A. B., and 1 believe 1 may say that it was
cither written by lumself, or certainly authorised by him.
The readei is requested to notice the particidar kind and
08 MESMEIUSM.
y)Ositivc nature of the statements lierc made ;
jus a very
singular eontrast to them will be funiislied, from the very
same source, in the course of tlic present narrative. It
is most ])rovoking that all these positive and undoubted
rcidities of nuirvels should jit once vanish whenever the
unlucky writer of this j>apcr eoincs on the scene. Surely
he must be bewitched, or bemesmerised the wrong way.
“ The boy is extremely intelligent and coninuuiicjiiivc
in the somuambidie state, lie rcjubly answers any in-
(|uir}', and he tells us that if am/ test is applied which he
ruHuot solve he says so at once. He never guesses at an
answer ifhe docs not really perceive the object hence it is,
thill, unlike any other yjatieiit we have seen, he has never
failed in a single instance.
“ He slates further, that it is easier for him to see
through a solid body than through one composed offolds
each surface presents an obstacle and increases the difficulty
of seeing. Hence he can jiereeive objects within a wooden
box more readily than within a couple of envelopes, and
through brown ]>ii])er more eas’dy than through white
piipcr.”—The Critic, 2Gth July, 181-5.
George Goble, the seer, wa.s then introduced, lie is
a lad of about 17, rather snudlof liis age, but intelligent-
looking. I was a httlc disappointed to Icimi, on ui-
cpiiry, that he is “ an old hand” at these tilings, having
formerly exhibited, in ymblic, under both Mr. Venionand
Mr. Brookes. He Inid only been a few weeks in Mr.
.V. B.’s service (as a copying clerk) ;
but dui-ing that time
GEORGE GOBLE. G9
he seems to have been mueh engaged in his former voca-
tion as a seer, —discharging the functions thereof to the
boundless satisfaction of his master.
First Day.—July 2^th, IS 15.
Fir-st Experiment.
It was proposed by !Mr. A. B. that the same j»lan for
testing the boy’s ])Owers should be followed which had
previously proved so extremely successful with liim ;
and
as this was fmr ami reasonable, I immediately adopted
it. Mr. A. 11. produeed some common coiirse browni
wrai)ping-paper, and rerpiested me to place any word I
chose wit Ilia sevenU folds of tliis, —he and the boy leav-
ing the room while I did so. Out of a heap of loose
jourinils and ]iamphlcts, I clip|)cd a common word from
tlie title-i)iige of one, and folded it witliin the brown paper.
Mr. B. then returned into the room, and proposed that
1 should seal the ends of the paper. 1 did so, turning the
ends of the folded paper over (in the manner of a ehemist’s
medieimJ “ powder”), and dropping the wax on them.
Owing to the thiekness and stitfness of the paper, the
sejiling was not verj’ elVectively done, the folded ends be-
ing partially tilted np, and drawing the wax along with
them. The paper thus folded and sealed was then placed
within a common leather or pasteboard card-case, which
w;is neither sealed nor tied.
70 MKSMEIUSM.
'I’lic lx)y, being “mesmeriseil” by Mr. A. B., after staring
and winking, and twitcliing his limbs for a minute or so,
lay down seemingly iislecp ;
and after lying in this state
for about the same period, he awoke up in the brisk, j)ert
liumour common to the so-called somnambulists. In this
state he conversed rcjulily with everybody, and showed
not the slightest mark disceniible by me (or, I believe, by
anybody else) whereby he could be distinguished from a
common waking mortiil, except that he gcnendly kept Ids
eyelids jiartially closed. llC took the ciud-casc, and Avent
through a great variety of imuioemTCS wldch occupied a
longtime—Ishould think half an houror more —and which
it would be tedious and useless minutely to describe. The
greater part of the time he sat or lay upon a sofa, having
a ))ilIow at one end. The most common of his proceedings
were to phme the card-case on his forehead, and press
it first with his hand, then against the pillow; to breathe
re])catcdly and forcibly on the ciisc, and again place it on
t he Ibrchcad, ami again press it on the pillow ;
t hen to
place it -under the pillow, and press his face and head on
t his ;
t hen to place it on his hand, place the j)illow on this,
and agiun press his forehead on it, &c. &c. lie idso fre-
quently, while lying on his fiu?c, i)ut his head over the
pillow, fis if looking under it, and I observe-d that for a
long time together he kept both his hands under the
pillow with the card-c!isc. 1 watched him as closely !is I
eoidd, and although it WJis obvious from the position of
the arms and their movement, that the hands were at
work, 1 could not discover that at any time he o])encd the
card-case, much less opened the paj>er enclosed in it ;
yet
GEORGE GOULE. 71
it was not only perfectly possible, b\it quite easy for him
to do so without being seen. After these various ma-
noeuvres had been continued to a very tedious length of
time, George got up from the sofa, jilaced the case imder
my foot ou the floor, and placed liis forcheml on my foot ;
then, after a short time, started uji, and, in a sort of furor
of excitement, and with a degree of rapidity which ren-
dered it impossible to sec accurately the condition of
tilings, or to check his proceeduigs, he imlled open the
ca.se, whisked out the paper, and, calling out the word
“ Country,” w:is proceeding to tear it open, when Mr.
A. 15. and myself tried to stop him, and to get the pajier
into our possession; and 1 believe we did gi't it fora
moment ;
but before any examination could tiike |)l;ice.
he snatched the pajier from us, in reid or iifleeted rage,
and tore it in pieces. All this took jdace so rapidly,
iunid such excitement, and with so much surprise on my
|)art, that it wiis utterly imjmssible to have any certainty
as to the precise conilit ion of the paper when withdrawn.
M hen the top of the case was snatched oil’, the seal on
the projecting end of the jiaper certainly iteemed still
there, and probably wtis .so; but, as I have said, 1 cannot
speak with any certiiinty of this, much less of the condi-
tion of the seal at the other end.
Having, at that time, no special reason for tlccming
George im impostor, and being somewhat influenced by
the most confltlent liclief of Ids honesty mid of Ids mar-
vellous powers entertidned and expressed by Mr. A. 15.,
1 own 1 was at first somewhat confounded by the bold an-
nouncement of my “ .s(>aled word,” which seemed to come
72 MKSMERISM.
a good deal nearer the marvel of elairvoyance Ilian any-
lliing [ireviously -witnessed by me. But 1 soon reeo-
vered my traiujuillify and my seojilieism, and felt that
lliere was yet a good deal more to be done before 1 eould
be justified iu ehanging my opiiuous.
The comjilete uncertainty as to the integrity of the
seals, of course, vitiates entin^ly this ex|)erimeut, and
renders it perfectly valueless as a jiroof of elairvoyauce
while a eousiderat ion of ihc ])revious and subsecpieut jiro.
ceediugs of Giiorge, throws more than mere suspicion on
the ease, and renders the ex])lanatioii that immediately
suggests itself to a sceiitic hardly questionable, viz. that
t he lad had, amid Ids secret manipulations luidcr the pil-
low, actually md'olded the paper and read the word ;
and
that the sybilliuc fury of the devouement was cuimiugly
assumed to prevent discovery of t he broken scids.
Second Extehiment.
Unseen by any person, I wrote at the toji of a slij) of
white pajier (about the length and half the width ol com-
mon notc-pa])er) a single word, iu large print-cajiitals, and
folding the paper several times on itself, placed it within
the same card-case. 1 am certain that 1 folded the jiaper
into a llattened parallelogram, somewhat less than an
inch in bread! li, —as it was natural so to shape a pai)cr to
be placed witidn a thin card-case. And 1 have a positive
proof of my having done so in the paper itself, still in my
possession, on which 1 tind the same word imperfectly
GEORGE GOBLE. 73
prinlod, in rnrnrsr, nearly an inch below the word writ en
l,y , UP —the impression bein- produced uiuiuestionably
by tlicV^/o!(li»ff of the paper licforc the word was qmte
*
"^George Goble took the card-case in high glee at his
former 'success, and expressing aloud his confidence of
speedily reading wliat was inclosed, lie proceeded to
execute all his fomer mannmvres, of whieli the most jiro-
miiient was still tliat of kceiiiiig the card-case under the
pillow, peeping occasionally over and niider it, then liring-
ing it forth, breathing vehemently on it, and pressing it
to"liis forehead. .Vfter a considerable tunc thus con-
sumed, he started up, i.limed the card-case on the floor,
placeil my foot ii|)on it, and then liis heal on my foot, pre-
cisely as on the former occasion, lb' then triumphantly
aunonneed the word, spelling it—“ F-o-n-l-d.” I said
this was not exactly the word, but was sntlieiently near
it to satisfy me that he liad seen wliat the liox contained
Unt .Mr. A. U. wished him to lie jierfeetly accurate, and
he very soon prononneed the word to be as I had written
it,
“ Foltl.” George tlien proceeded to o|)en the box and
withdrew tlie jiaper, which lie half-nnlolded, or rather
unrolled, before 1 coidd take it out of his hands. 1 saw,
liowcver, that when the top of the case was withdrawn,
/At- palter wax rent/ (Ujferent in form from the pajier I had
placed there .—insteiul of being fat and liroad as de-
scribed, it was perfectly rolled on itself like a com-
mon iniper-match. 1 immediately got possession of tlie
paper, and, the boy being sent out of tlie room, expressed
mv conviction that the box had been oiiened, and the word
7
MESIIEIUSM.
7't
rca^l by orcUnary vision. The gentlemen present admitted
i liat the ])aper wlien wilhdrawn from the case, was rolled
on itself, as 1 have described it.
As this singnlar change of form could not possibly
have occurred si)onlaneoii.sly, and ;us the secret manipu-
lations beneath the pillow allbrded llu! greatest facility for
George’s opening the Ciise without being seen, there can
hardly remain, in any mind, the shadow of a doubt that
he did .so, and tints obtained his knowledge of the word.
Third Experiment.
It being now no longer doubtful that our seer, George,
would not hesitate to see all that he eoidd in the humble
human fashion, it was necessary to take some precautions
to prevent his being tempted from his high eaUing of
clairvoyance. Accordingly, in repeating the last exjieri-
ment, I made this little dill'ercnec, viz. that the card-ease
was carefully bound round with twine, and sealed, so
that it could not be o|)eiied without detection. A long
trial was made with this in the same manner as before,
over the pillow and under the pillow, but no announce-
ment of the inclosed word w<as made. George admitted
that he could not sec into the box.
Fourth Experiment.
George accounted for his failure in the last experiment,
by a change having been made in the colour ol the pajier
GEOllGE GOBLE. 75
inclosiii" the word. In the present experiment, there-
fore, i)iiper of (he desiderated hue wiis adopted; but the
ease b(ung as earefidly corded and sealed iis before, a si-
milar result ensued; no reading of the inclosed word took
j)lace.
Second Bay.—Thursday, 31^^ July.
On this occasion Professors Sharpey and Graham, of
University College, accom[)anied me; and we all took with
us small boxes of wood, and all sealed, but not othennsc
secured. It was laid down as a positive condition, tliat
the breach of a seal, liowever effected, should be under-
stood to vitiate that particidar experuneut wherein it
took place.
First Experiment.
George first selected a little round box, fixing with a
s]iiral screw; one of the small boxes eonnnonly ii.sed by
seal-engravers to contain impressions of seals in wax. 1
m:is sealed on the edge, and was otherwise dillieultly un-
screwed. It jiroved too dillicult for George; its after a
considerable trial, he gave in, stating at the stnne time,
somewhat carelessly, that he had “seen” in it some of
the letters, but not with accuracy ;~ he thought they
M erc “//«/•” or “hart." On examining the box, the seal
Mas found perfect; the contained word Mas “insane,"
7fi MESMKIUSM.
liaviiifT, it M ill be observed, only one of the three or four
letters aiiuouiiced by George.
Second Experiment.
George then selected another box—a small square box,
of very slender materials, (tlu; slightest of the lot) with
a sliding lid Mliieh Mas not at all tied, Indi merely kc|it
in its place by a single seal on its outer end, jind a small
droj) of m:lx at one corner, lie proceeded through the
same routine of manipulations as before, retaining the
box for a long time under the pilloM’, and, as mtus olivious
from the motion of the arims, evidently using both his
hands there for some |Hirpose, mIuIc the ])eejiings over
and under the ])illoM' M’en; frequent. At one time, a
sound as of a crack, or click, or snap, m!is distinctly heard
from under the |)illoM'. After a considerable time, he
got up and ])laeed the box on the floor and my foot nj)on
it, and then his head upon this, as on the j)rece(bng day.
He then shouted out the Mord “Royal
”
sprang up from
the floor M'ith the box in his hand, and m;is laid hold of
M'hile in the act of ])roeeeding a])|)arenfly to draM’ the lid,
and the box Mrenehed finally from his hand. On exa-
mination, it M':is found, that the seal, and also the drop
of M ax, Mere broken across, ])rccisely in the line of open-
ing, by a smooth crack, very fine, yet sullicicntly percep-
fiblc. As the conditions of the experiment M'crc here
manifestly broken t hrough, the rcsidt M'as declared to be
GEORGE GOBLE. 77
simply null, as, whatever suspicions we entertained, we
had so positive proof that George had broken the seal,
and read the word by ordinary' vision. Although Mr.
Graham, whose box this was, thought it the fairest eourse
tliat the box should not at th.at time be opened at all,
yet 1 may now state that the word was correctly named
by the boy.
All the eircumstanees of the case being eonsidered, no
rational doubt ean be entertained that George eamc by
the knowledge of this word by opening the box beneath
his serccu of |)illow, and reading it with his natund hu-
man eyes. On more elosely examining the Ixix, it w;ls
found tliJit the crack or fracture in the seal remained as
minute and due, and as little eonspieuous, after with-
drawing and returning to its [)laee the lid, as when it Wiis
examined when snatched from Geoi^’s hand. I men-
tion this, bceau.se it was doubted at the time by some
of George’s friends whether the .seal was rejdly .so niiieh
fnu'lured lus must have been the ease had the lid been
completely withdrawn and again shut.
Third Experiment.
It being now sutKciently evident that the security of a
mere seal was insufficient, some boxes were tied timdy
with ta])e, imd sealed in such a manner as could leave no
doubt ill any muid that, if opened, they were intcutionally
o])cucd. George selected one of the best secured, and,
as it to astonish us at once by Ids honesty and bold con-
7 §
78 MKSMEUISM.
fidcncc, lie proceeded <o u desk standing in tlic room,
placcfl the box within it ,
locked it, and gave me the key !
lie then laid his face and head ii]ion the desk, and rc-
nniined motionless in this posliu'e for some time. He
then took a jien and pajier, and made, tirst, six marks,
which his friends gravely interpreted as indicating six
letters in the ini|)risoned box ;
and then wrote the letters
“erw” twice over,— without, however, stating, or other-
wise indicating (thongh we all inferred that sneh wiishis
meaning), that these were the letters contained in the
box. After a little longer silence and inaction, George
opened his eyes, stretehed himself, and was declared by
his mesmeriser to be awake! And this s))ontaneons
waking-np of George was declared to be a thing nnex-
amiiled, and nnaeconntablc and wonderful. To ns un-
leanied scejitics, it seemed a very natural and easy mode
of getting out of the ditliculties of his position, wnthout
owning further defeat. The box when opened was found
to contain the tignres 1787, and no letters.
AVc, the experimenters, were so perfectly satislied with
the results of this day’s tried, taken in conjnnetion with
those of the fonner, that we did not propose any imme-
diate repetition of the experiments. George had invari-
ably failed where it was impossible to see by ordinary
vision ;
and all his ap])arcut successes were cither ])alpablc
deceptions, or, at most, successes where ordinary vision
was not merely possible, but very j)robable and very ])rac-
ticable. We accordingly took our dc])arture, without
arranging any further meetings, George’s friends admit-
ting that the results were at least inconclusive ;
and Mr.
GEORGE GOBLE. 79
A. H. cxprcssinc; great suqirisc at the unaccountable and
most unusual failures of his ]irotegc.
In the eoursc of the same evening I received from tliis
gentleman another polite note, part of which 1 print,
chiefly because it exhibits the faith he still had in George’s
honesty, and his luibrokcn confidence in his powers.
“ Thursday Evening.
“ My dear Sir,—As T sec you are proceeding with the
inquiry fairly, I am very anxious that you shoidd have the
fullest opportunity for investigation, and as I go out ol
town fora week on Saturday morning, 1 should reidly be
obliged if you could see the boy again to-morrow, either
moniing or evening, at your convenience ;
and if you
could get yoiur two friends to be jircsent 1 should be so
much the better pleased
“ I know from reiwated success in the presence of others,
that the boy can do what he to do, and that all is
bondJidc : but I admit that what you have seen is open to
question from one who had not seen him at other times
and therefore I am very anxious that you should sat isfy
yourself fully. Appoint any time to-morrow (Friday),
any place, ami I will meet you.
“ Yours faithfully.”
I wrote in reply to this that I woidd wait on Mr. A. 11.
at a (piartcr past one, with my friends, and added, that 1
expected this investigation wmdd produce one of two rc-
sidts — cither that we should a(hnit that there wiu> more
in clainoyance than we now believed, or that nE shoidd
so MESMERISM.
confc.ss that lie liail to ileal with aii ini])ostor iu George
Goble.
Third JDa;/. —Friday, Auymt Is/.
Taught hy the ex])ericiK‘o of the jirevious trials, we
lireparcil ourselves better for this. We had proved the
iusutlieiciicy of mere wax to obstruct George’s irresistilile
vision, or to jirevcut cavil as to the mode of its exertion
we resolved, therefore, to eany ivitli us boxes which
could not ])ossibly be ojicncd Avithout absolute fracture,
and into which, in their conijiletc state, the ordinary sight
of mere mortal man could not ])enctratc. Iteading the
words inclosed in these, Avould, therefore at once establish
Avhat is called clairvoyance ;
Avhile the failure to do so,
would, at least, conlirm our doubts and suspicions as to
the powers and honesty of the seer. But wc were de-
sirous to go further than this ;
and to establish, if possible,
not merely George’s failure— the negative of non-.succcss,
but the ])ositivc fact of his roguery (for such we deemed
it) and the mode of its ojicration. And the ingmiuity of
Dr. Sharpey enabled us to do so very cllcetively. He
formed his trap as folloAvs : selecting George’s favorite
subject, a card-case —which, according to ^Ir. A. B.’s re-
port, had been, in his hands, ahnost invariably the medium
of triumphant success,—Dr. Sharpey prepared it in the
following manner. He took a blank card litting the case,
pasted on one side of it the word to be read, and then
allixcd jdoiig the cud of the other side a small shelf or
GEORGE GOBLE. SI
lc(l"c exactly filling u]) the space left between the card
and the o]iposite side of the ciise. Placiiig the card, thus
armed, witliin tlie cjise, he piled u])on the ledge at the
bottom, a series of long and narrow slips of cork, neatly
cut and accurately yet loosely lifting the space unoccu-
pieil l)y flic card. The cflect of this arrangement Mas,
that any MithdraMal of the caril MOidd inevitably draw
out and let fall the loose slips of cork supported on the
ledge attached to it. The re|>osition of these slips in
their original arrangement m.is next to imjM)ssiblc; and
as their, exact number Mas taken, mo had the means of
discovering the h)ss, if any of them shoidd have been made
aM'ay M'ith, after falling from the cjisc.
First E.xi’Erimext.
George, being mesmerised as before, and declared to
be in the pniper somnambulic condition, one of the same
boxes Mius given to him Mhieh he had attempted on tlui
preceding d;iy. This box miis composed of very thin
deal, I inches by 2 in extent, and three-fpiarters of mi inch
in depth : it contained a single M'ord in large jirint, pasted
on the bottom, and not covered by anything. The lid
Mas secured by a single sercM", the head of Mhieh miis let
into the Mood; this miis conccideil by a small Max-seal,
jiartly for the ]iurposc of iircveuting any attempt at im-
sercM'ing, aiul partly to eonecid from George the imprac-
ticable ehanieter of the task set him. AVe Inul seen, on
the previous day, that begot out of a difficulty Mhieh he
82 MKSMKiaSM.
felt. <0 be iiisTiperable, l>y waking u]) into mere liuman j)o-
teney, to (he wonderment ami cbsmay of his patrons. On
the present occasion the box, bearing no more outward
semblance of impracticability than the one he had seen
into on the ))revions day, was tiiken at once, and snbjeeted
to all the ns\ial mancrnvres and manij)ulations, and with
more a])parent energy and vigour than ever. "We looked
on, with the utmost patience and tranquillity, for the
space of one whole hour ! k’rom the obvious action of
the imrsclcs of the arn>s while George’s hands were under
the j)illow with the box, from the sounds occiisionally is-
suing from the hiding place, from the uniform increase of
the j)hysical ellbrts to pluck out the heart of our mystery
on the occasion of a noisy carriages p;issing the window,
&c.—not a shadow of a doubt remained on the mind of
any one ])rcsent (not even on that of our good friend Mr.
A. H.) that George Goble w:is trying hard to sec into my
box, and that George Goble could not succeed, lie was,
at length, entreated to give uj), and try something else.
He did so ;
but in resigning the tiLsk he declared that he
had seen three of the letters in the box—viz. 0. V. S.
On being questioned by Mr. A. B. whether he had had a
mere uncertain glimpse of these letters, or a good posi-
tive vision, he rc])eatedly declared that he had positively
seen them, and that they were in the box. Before the
silting broke nj), this box was unscrewed, and the word,
“ Exhibition,” exposed. It is a rather emdous chance,
that among the ten letters eonqiosing this word there
should be only one of the three seen by George
GEORGE GOBLE. S3
Second Experiment.
AVe were all now very anxious tliat tlic card-casc should
be |)iit into George’s liands, Init were fearful of exciting
susj)ieiou by pro|)osiug it to liiin. A ery fortunately be
huus('lf asked for a card ciise, and Dr. Sbarpey’s was
banded to biin, with the injunction that be must not open
it, and the rcfjuest of a promise that be would not do so.
He gave the promise, but bimself j>ro])osed that, to do
away with all possible suspicion of unfair play, the card-
Ciise should be tied up. Motbing was said about sealing
it. Accordingly, (ieorge bimself tied the card-Oiise, in
the common eross-fasbion, with red ta|ie, assisted by one
of our party, wlio carefully noticed bow it was done, the
pbioeof the knot, &e. George immediately proceeded to
bis sofa, and went tlimugb all bis wonted manauivres,
prcs.sing the case to bis forehead, mid breathing on it
with marvellous energy and unction. He was evidently
in better spirits tliau during the last experiment, and
openly expressed bis conviction that be should “doit”
this time. The suh-pulciuarp mani|mlations were, of
course, not forgotten, and were elosidy watched. After
a considerable time, and often-re])eated strong action of
the bands, |)crceptil)le tbrougb the muscles of the anus,
some of our jiarty bad a glimp.se of the card-ease, under
the edge ol the pillow, without it.•< tigature, mid of the
ligature without itn ttos Soon after, we were stnick by
the sudden and unusual stillness and tranquillity of
George, still prone on bis field of ac-tion; bis bands re-
mained motionless in tiieir bicbiig |)lace, bis bead and face
buried in bis pillow, and we begmi to think be bad gone
84 MKSM RUISM.
to slcc]) —wlicii lo ! \vc observed liim Inirricdly and re-
peatedly pidting Ids lingers to liis inoiitli, as if |)lacing
sometldng tlicrein, and, almost at the same moment, ve
observed some small fragmeids falling on t he floor bcneal b
the sofa, and exaetly below the place of the ])illow
These proved to be fragments of cork—mostly eommi-
imted, but some still bearing the cliarael eristic form and
dimensions of those so ingeniously eoneealed by Dr.
Sbarpey in bis card-case. Searching under the pillow,
we found some more of them, and also deleeted I he
hiatus valdc dcjlcmlus in the sofa, t hrongh which they had
found their way to t he carped ! The case was now clear
although George made one more ellbid to deceive ns, by
cx])osing the cartl-ease above the ])illow still tint hi/ the
tape, and linally by placing it on the floor bcneal h his
m.isler’s foot. Hut our |)atience was at last exhau.sted ;
we laid hold of the card-c;use, and announcing George’s
roguery and its detection, avc forceal st ill more of the un-
lucky cork slips from his Ininds and from his mouth
I’oor George was now fairly beaten —and he knew it ;
all
his cunning and im])udenc(>, and all his magiudism, de-
serted him at once ;
he woke up iu the most natural man-
ner imaginable, without any demesmerising |iroccss, and
with none of that gentle, ])rogrcssive uidocking of Ihe
senses exhibited on previous occasions ;
ami throwing
himself on his knees on the ground, in an iigony of shame
and terror confessed his roguery, and implored foi-give-
ness ! In doing so, however, the meek and ])cnitcnt
George, like all other habitual culprits when detected, of
course strenuously asserted tlmtthis was his ,//>«/ offence.
It woidd have been very strange if he had not said so.
GEORGE GOBLE. 85
and it would have been still more strange if anybody had
bebeved luin. On examinuig the eard-casc, we found
evident signs of the removal and rc-adjustmcnt of the liga-
ture ; the taj)e was aU rumpled, and the knot was removed
from the end to the middle of the case. The chansres in
the interior were still more characteristic. Mimy of the
corklets were wanting, some were thrust m irregidarly
into their original place, and several pieces were wedged
in on the opposite side of the card. It wits eleiir that
when George began to shake the forbidden tree, he be-
came suddenly aware, by the faUing of the apples, that
he hiul got into a confounded scrape, and tried to rc'piiir
it
—piully by retimiing the tell-tales to their phiee, and
[>artly by conceabng them in his mouth, or swallowing
them. But it would not do. It was fated that George
Goble’s fame as a Great Seer was here to terminate ; he
had fought his last tight, he had seen his last sight, among
honest men ;
and idthough I shall not l)e at all suqirised
to lind him agiiin on the boards with his old itinerant
masters, (for he is really a clever though a .somewhat
clum.sy rogue,) it is improbabh—and doubt le.s.s he felt
this —that he can ever be agiiin coiuiteniiuced by iiny re-
siicctablc mesmerist, however credulous.
First Postscript, August id, IS 1-5.
Since the foregoing narrative wius written, I have
received a communiciition from Mr. A. B., inviting me
8
80 MESMERISM.
to carry iny investigation of George Golilc’s powers of
clairvoyance yet furtlicr,—lie (Mr. A. B.) still believing,
notwithstanding the boy’s detected and avoAved roguery,
that he really docs possess those powers. 1 am quite
willing to admit, that although George is a cheat and a
liar, it docs not necessarily follow that he ha.s never told
the truth ;
and 1 now ])rofc.ss myself as ready as ever to
admit his jiowcr of clairvoyance, when this is shown to me
under circumstances where decciition is impossible. But
surely, in the iircscnt case, the onus prohandi rests with
the believers in George, and not with me.
I have above stated that, on his detection, Goble waked
np from his siqiposed mesmerised condition. I now Icara,
however, from Mr. A. B., that the young rogue was not
then awake, as we supjioscd, but was subsequently
awakened by him in the due mesmeric form !
“ hcaw'okc
(he says) in an agony of tears, quite unconscious of what
had passed, and remains so to this moment !” As there
is, as far ius 1 know', no ])Ositivc t est of t he mesmeric con-
dition short of the performance of the miracle of clair-
voyance ;
as Goble failed to ])orform this miracle ;
as he
cxliibits during his so-called somnambulism not one dis-
coverable ])hcnomenon which could not have liecn most
H'adily feigned ;
and as he presented to us, at the jicriod
of his confession, .all the ordinary signs of a man awake,
I leave it to the decision of every unprejudiced reader of
the foregoing narrative —whether mesmerist or not —
which of the two following thmgs is the most probable :
(1) that G. G. was, at any time, in the somuam-
GEORGE GOBLE. 87
bulic state here assumed bv Mr. A. B. ; or (2) tliat he
Ijingly pretended to be ui this state, and to awake there-
from,—just as lie lyingly pretended to sec thi-ough our
boxes; and that Mr. A. B. was mistakcu in tlie oue case
as ui the other.
In the communication above referred to, Mr. A. B.
witcs of Goble as follows lie admits that he had, on
many occasions, when he was unable to read by clainoy-
aiiec, in liis amxiety not to be cousidcrcd unable to per-
form it, resorted to the contrivance in which the sagacity
of yourself and friends so cleverly detected him, but he
assures me, that it was done oidy occasiomdlv, when the
power tailed liim.” Credat JuiUeus ape!la, non ego, J. F.
Second Postscript, October 21^/, ISij.
In taking my leave of George Goble, on the 7th of
August, 1 put into the possession of Mr. A. B. a small
sealed box, containing a single word printed in large
t\pe with the understanding that 1 woidd, according
to his desire, reucw my investigation of the case, when-
ever the box was returned to me uiiopeued, with the in-
closed word written on the outsiilc of it. Some short
time afterwards, I received a note from Mr. A. B. of
wliich the following is an extract
Mv i)E.itt Sir,
“
^ou so completely frightened the boy by vour
threats the other day that 1 have hail great dUlicidty in
88 MESMERISM.
persuading liiin to read your box.* To-day, liowcver, I
pnnailed on liiiu to do so, and iu about three niiuutes lie
said that tlie word is “ Implements,” or :is licsi)elled it
impelmolts. Tl)is I liavc WTiften u|>ou tlic box, mIjosc
seals you will find unbroken; indeed, he did it standing
at the desk, for ever sinee llic aflair with the pillow ho
will not use it at all, but reads M ithout removing the
article from our sight, at desks and tables.
1 should, of course,, like to have your liox opened in
my ))resence ;
I would liring it down to yon, but do not
know when you will be at home. AVill you look in upon
me if you ))ass this way, and open the box yourself? that
is, provided the boy luus rightly read it; for if he is
wrong it will save time if you will immediately inform
me so, and he shall look at it again. But 1 feel great
coufdenee from the manner of his doing it, that he has
read it righllg : he named it readilg, first the whole word,
then letter hg letter
In reply to this note, T informed A. B. that George’s
reading w:is not very accurate, notM'ithstanding his care-
ful s])elling of the word, “letter by letter.” And :is I
have had no further report of his success, after more
than two months, T may as M-ell disclose the mystery
Avhicli baffled our seer ! The Avord so carefully read,
“letter by letter,” as “ Impelments,” happens to be
• On detecting Goble's Imposture, .md while he was on his
knees confessing his immediate roguery, I endeavoured to terrify
him into a confession of former sins, by threatening to take him
before a magistrate if lie did not tell the trutli.
J. F.
GEORGE GOBLE. 89
“ Objections as, I doubt not, Mr. A. B., will find
when he unserews and unseals luy l)ox
I may Iierc mention that tliis is the sceond time in
whicli my unlueky star has interfered with the manifesta-
tion of elain'oyanee, even when my “atmosphere of iu-
ercdulity” eould not poLsoii the faculties of the seer. On
the occasion of jVlexis’s exhibition at my liousc, when
he failed completely to read in the boxes and sealed pa-
pers, a celebrated medical mesmerist present, took home
with tiim one of my envelopes, assuring me that he luul
no doubt whatever but that he eould induce Alexis to
read it at home, or that one of his own imtients would
do so. 1 begged that he would return the paper to me
with the word written outside; but it luis never yet
reached me
8 §
V,,
a*
dTourtl) ;^cric3.
MISS ^LiRTlNEAU’S J.
Altlioup:li Ihc illustrations contmncd in this last scries,
cannot, in strictness, be said to be derived, like the |)re-
ceediii", “from personal invest ipat ion,” still as I was
the remote if not the immediate cause of the exposure
of the fidlaey, and iis the facts hannoiiize so much with
the others given above, I have requested and obtained
the |)ennissiou of the Editor of the Athcnicum, to re-
jirint them from the juages of that Jounud. I regret
that my plan does not idlow me to insert the mlmirable
editorial comments on tliis case which accompauied the
origiiud statements.
1. Miss Martixeau’s Statement.
{Extractfrom the Letter dated Nov. 20, IS tl.)
Tlic next evening (Monday, October 11th,) J. did not
come up as usual to our seance. There was atllictiou in
D2 MESMERISM.
Ilin liousdiold. An aunt of J.’s, Mrs. A., a good woman
I have long known, lives in a cottiigc at the bottom of our
g:irden. Mrs. A.’s son, .l.’s cousin, -was one of the crew
of a vessel Mhieh u'as this evening reported to have been
MTeeked near Hull. 'Phis w;is all that M'as kiunni, cx-
ce])t that the owner u'.'us gone to Hull to sec about it.
J. was about to ualk to Shields uith a com])anion to iii-
fiuire, but the night was so tempestuous, and it was so
evident that no news could be obtained, that she wiis ])cr-
suaded not to go. But she was loo much disturbed to
think of being mesmerised. Next morning there u asno
iicAvs. All day there were Hying reports, —that all hands
Avere lost —that all Avere saved— but nothing like Avhat
aftenvards |)roved to be the truth. In the afternoon (no
tidings having arrived) avc avcuI for a long drive, and took
J. Avith us. She Avas Avith u.s, in another direction, till
tea-time; and then, on our return, there AA'crc still no
tidings ;
but Mrs. A.Avas gone to Shields to incpiire, and if
letters had come, she Avould bring tlic ncAvs in the even-
ing. J. Avent out on an errand, Avhile Ave Avere at tea,
no person in the place having then any means of knoAving
about the Avreck ;
and on her return, she came straight
up to us for her moire. Two gentlemen Avere Avith us
that evening, one from America, the other from the
neighbourhood. I may say here, that avc note down at
the moment Avhat J. says; and that on this eATiiing there
Avas the additional security of my American friend repeat-
ing to me, on the instant, (on account of my deafness,)
every Avord as it fell.
J. AA'as presently asleep, and her Mesmerist, knoAAung
MISS MAKTINEAU’S J. 93
the advantage of introdueing subjeets on which the muid
had previously been excited, and how the inspiration fol-
lows the course of the affections, asked, as soon as the
sleep was deep enough, “Canyon tell us about thc%vreek?”
J. tranquilly rej)lied, “ Oh !
yes, they’re all safe ;
but the
sliip is all to pieces.”
“ tVcrc they saved in their boat ?
”
“ No, that’s all to pieces.”
“ How then ?”
“A queer boat took them off; not their boat.”
“Are you sure they are all safe ?”
“Yes; all that were ou board: but there teas a boy
killed. But 1 don’t tliink it is iny cousin.”
“ At the time of the wreck ?”
“ No, before the stonn.”
“ Ilow did it happen?”
“ By a fall.”
“ Down the hatchways, or how ?”
“No, he fell through the rigging, from the mast.”
She presently observed, “My aunt is below, telling
them all about it, and 1 sludl hear it when I go down.”
My rooms being a selection from two houses, this “lie-
low ” meant two stories lower ui the next house.
She continued talking of other things for an hour lon-
ger, and before she awoke, the gentlemen were gone.
After mquiruig whether she was refreshed by her sleep,
and whether she had dreamed, (“ No,”) we desired her to
let us know if she heard news of the uTcck ;
and she
promised, in all simplicity, that she would. In another
fpiartcr of lui hour, up she came, all animation, to tell us
51KSMER1SM.
‘Jl-
lliat her cousin ami all Ihe crew were safe, her aunt
having returned from Shields with the news. The wreck
had occurred hetween Elsinore and Gottenhurg, ami the
crew had been taken off by a (ishing-hoat, after two days
spent on the wreck, their own boat having gone to pieces.
She was turning away to leave the room, when she wiis
asked,—
“So all are saved—all who left the port ?”
“No, ma’am,” said she, “all who were on board at the
time: but they had had an accident before; —a boy fell
from the mast, and was killed on the deck.”
Besides having no doubt of the rectitude of the girl,
we knew that she had notr seen her aunt, —the only person
from whom tidings could have been obtained. But, to
make all sure, I made an errand to the cottage tlie next
morning, well knowing that the relieved mother would
pour out her whole talc. My friend and 1 encoimiged
her; and she told us how she got the news, and when
she brought it to 'rynemouth,—^just as we knew before.
“ How glad they must have been to see you ‘
at ours’ !
”
sidd I.
“ O yes, ma’am ;
” and she declared my landlady’s de-
light.
“ And said 1.
“ Ma’am, I did not see .1.,” said she, simply and rapidly,
in her eagerness to tell. Then, presently—” They told
me, ma’am, that J. was up stidrs with you.”
Two evenings afterwards, J. w:us asked, when in the
sleep, whether she knew what she related to us by seeing
her aunt telling the people below ? to which she replied,
MISS MARTIXEAU’S J .
“No; I saw the plaec ami the people themselves, —like
a vision.”
Harriet Martine.w.
II. Letter from Dr. Forbes to the Editor of the
Athen.elm.
Sir,—While preparing for the press a pamphlet just
published on the subject of ^Ies.merism.* I reipiested my
friend Dr. Brown, of Bishopwearmouth, to endeavour to
procure for me some positive information as to the Au/»aa
manner iu which the account of the shijiwrcek, &c. pro-
mulgated by Miss Martincau’s J., in her mesmeric trance,
might have reached Tynemonth. Dr. Brown himself
most kindly midertook the inrpiiry ;
and I inclose his
statement, and also the statement of a gentleman (^Ir.
Greenhow) who was present at the memorable seance, for
pnblication in the Athenaum, iis they tlid not reach me
in time to appear in the pamphlet. No one, I think,
after reading the statements, \vill entertain any further
doubt as to the character of J., or as to the ivctual value
of tliis “great fact” of Miss Martineau’s narrative. The
• Mesmerism True — Mesmerism False: a critical examination of
the facts, claims anil pretensions of Animal Magnetism. Editeil by
John Korbes, u n. r.R.s. I take this opportunity of stating, that
this excellent work, printed originally In the Journal eiliteil by me.
Is wri.ten by my friend Mr Noble, of Manchester. 1 had no further
share in its composition than aHiirding some suggestions as to the
plan and supplying a few of the materials. I am the more anxious
to make this statement, as the pamphlet has been translated into
German, and my name ailixed as tire autiinr's. j, p
MESMERISM.
9f)
denouement is precisely such as every one who has read
llic liisiory of ^Icsmcrisin crilieally must, liavc expected
and harmonizes wonderfidly with tlic residts oldained in
the many other similar eases detailed in the pam])hlct re-
ferred to. “ These wonders arc too generally like the
Fata Morgana : afar olf all is beaut ifid and distinctly de-
fined ;
on a|)proaeh, tlic very outlines have vanished, and
are nowhere to he found !” The too-famous J. must
now descend from her dignified iiosition :is a Seer, and
henceforth take her jilace in that numerous band of clever
damsels, who with an admired perversity of spirit, and
by the mere strength of mother-wit, have contrived to
make their own inventions pass with their elders and
betters —with scicntilic doctors and erudite ladies—as
revelations of a jiower surjiassing human. For this ca-
tiistro])he she mu.st thank J)r. Brown, to whom the pub.
lie are much indebted for the trouble he has taken to
come at, the truth.
1 am, (Src.
John Forbes.
Ijondon, March 14, 1815.
III. Statement of Dr. Brown, in a Letter to
Dr. Forbes.
Mrs. llalliday is mistress of the house in the High-
street, Tynemouth, in which Miss Martineau lodged.
She is aunt to Jane Arrowsmith, an orphan, who lives in
the house with her, and assists her in taking care of it.
An uncle and another aunt of Jane AiTowsmith’s, mid of
MISS MAHTINEAU’S J. 97
the same name (Arrowsmith), occupy a small cottage at
the bottom of the little garden or court, not above twenty
yards long, behind Mrs. llalliday’s house. On the Mon-
day, the day preceding the mesmeric seance, intelligence
was brought to Mrs. Arrowsmith’s that the vessel in
which her son sailed was wrecked. She was at New-
castle, and did not herself rceeive the news till she re-
turned home late at night. She went on the following
day to Shields to learn particulars from the o\mcr of the
vessel, and from him got those particulars—of the total
wreck of the sliip, of the saving of the crew by a foreign
boat, of the drowning of the sailor-boy some time jire-
nously, and the safety of all present during the sliip-
WTeck,—wliieh arc set forth in Miss Martineau’s commu-
nication to the Athenaeum, and were the basis of Jane
Arrowsmith’s (J.’s) mesmeric revelations. Mrs. jVrrow-
smith returned with the joyful tidings of the safety of
her son, between five and sLx o’clock in the afternoon,
and then went immeiliatelif to her sister, Mrs. Ilalliday,
to impart them to her. Jane Arrowsmith was in her
aunt Halliday's house when Mrs. Arrowsmith told the
tale, but not in the kitchen, where it was told to Mrs. 11.
and the other persons there. A juirsou present when
Mrs. Arrowsmitli narrated her talc to Mrs. llaliiday,
told me that the circumstances of it were the subject of
conversation in the kitchen, in the interval between its
communication there anti the mesmeric exhibition, and
that such conversation took place in Jane's presence. There
W!is an interoal of about three hours between the bringing
9
MKSMKIUSM.
US
of tlu' news to Mrs. HiiUiday’s luul llip sroHce, the one
liiivinc: taki'U plaoo hotwoen five ami six o'clock, the other
ciijhtccu minutes past ciijht, accorilinp to the information
of a "nitlenmn who was present at it , amt who took notes
of what passed there. The statement of the time td the
arrival of the detailed information at Tvnemonth and at
Mrs. llalliday’s house, / hud/ivm Mrs. Arroirsmith, roH-
/irmrii Ity Mrs. Ilallidaif. .lane Arrowsmith (Miss Mar-
tiueau’s .1.1 denied to me that she had a knowledfit' of the
/nirftrHhtrs of the wreck prior to the satHce. IVhat a'-
lianee is to he jiliieed on this deelandion 1 leave to the
decision of others, with the remark, that if she, a girl of
nineteen, eviilenllv of gtmd nmlerst muling and of much
iialnnd aenteness, did remain for so long a ])eriod igno-
nmt of faets which must have been of mneh interest to
her (for the life or death of her own cousin was involved
ii\ them),—which had been discussed in her jnrsenee
which were perfectly well known, not only to lier re-
lations immediately around her, but, Mithin the period,
to almost every human being in the little village of Tyne-
moiith, —then was !is great a marvel elTeeted in her per-
son, !is when, in her sibylline condition, she revealed
thos(> s.ame fjicts without having herself received them
through any of the onlinarv- ehiumels of human inb)rma-
tion. If, then, her veracity is to be implicitly relied on,
wearo compelled to eonelmle that two miracles were in
one day accom])lished in her person.
Tlie gentleman already referred to as having been i>re-
sent at the seance [Mr. Greenhow] was with me when 1
MISS MAIITI.VEAU’S J.
held the conversation with the parties mentioned. 1
ho|)e to be able to send you a communication from him
nrspectinp that usance by to-morrow’s jjost.
J. Krows.
iSuhojncearmouth, March 10, 1815.
IV. flxTRACT FROM Mr. GrEE.NIIOW’s STATEMENT,
IN A Letter to Ur. llRfjw.v.
Tynemuuih, March 10, 1815.
1 saw Mrs. Arrowsmith again to-day, and questioned
her further. She spoke more decidedly than yesterday,
and e.xj)ressed her (imi iissurance that Jane mu.st have
heard all the particulars of the shipwreck at least three
hours before her mesmeric revelation of it. She alsfj in-
formed me that she knows Mm. //
.
(Miss Martineau’s
liuly-mesmcrist) to have parted with her maid in conse-
quence of the latter having twitted Jane with this fore-
knowledge, and idso exj)ressed her o|)iuion to her mistress
on the subject in very decided tenns. 1 forgot to men-
tion yesterday that the letter—the oidy one received-
containing the full particulars of the wreck of the Henry
and loss of the boy, a short time after leaving England]
was received by the owner of the vessel, a resident in
Shields, on Sunday the 13th day of October, and there-
fore the whole of the particulars were well known in the
neighbourluKRl on the Monday, idthough it does not ap-
pear that the Arrowsmiths were acquainted with them
until Tuesday.
It is worthy of remark, that the proposal to inquire
100 MESMERISM.
about the sliipwcck, on the evening of the famous seance,
was made by Mrs. IF. herself, sliortly after its commenee-
ment ;
that Mrs. W. did not take tea xoilh Miss Martineau,
Mr. (the American gentleman,) and myself, hut only
made her appearance at the same time xcith Jane, a quarter
past 8 P.M. ;
and that immediately after Jane had given
the statement eontained in the Athenajum, Mrs. W.
claimed it as an indubitable proof of the truths of Mes-
merism; and at different times, subsequently, during the
course of the evening, asked if it was not convincing, and
appeared very evidently displeased because I expressed
my conviction that Jane had dividged no fact she had not
acquired through ordinary sources of information,—{vt the
same time allowing, that if she could prove J.’s entire ig-
norance of the circumstances before entering that room,
it would induce me to consider Mesmerism much more
worth investigation. * *
V. Attested statement of Barbara Cole, maidservant to
Mr. Wm. Beay, late owner of the ship Henry.
Her master received the letter giving an account of
the wreck of the Henry, on Monday, the llth of October,
and communicated to her all the particulars that she
might be able to answer the inquiries of the relatives of
the crew, which it is usual for them to make at the owner’s
house on these occasions ;
and she states that on the
same day (Monday) Mrs. Arrowsmith’s little girl called
to inquire the news of the Henry, saying her mother had
MISS M.VRTIXEAU’S J. 101
f^one to Newcastle. She communicated to this little girl
all the jiarticulars of the wreck; and on the following
morning (Tuesday, thclSth of October) about ten o’clock,
Mrs. Arrowsmith, accompanied by the same little girl,
called and had recapitulated to her all the minute eircum-
stances attcuding the loss of the vessel.
B.\rb.\ra Cole, her x Mark.
Signed in the
prestniee of
"
Mary Heay.
•< Henry Walkeh Henson
•Mary Taylor.
in
NOTE.
TIk! iJlusI,ration which follows lias occurred since tlic
j)rcccding were published. It is now added to the
collection, as exhibiting a new phasis in the trininphal
progress of inodeni Mcsinerisin. First, Phrenology
was bound to its chariot wheels ;
Jiow IIoMOJorATiiY ;
and, doubtless, anon we sludl have llYDROCATirY. It is
snrjirising that Railway Scrip has hitherto escaped the
yoke.
'I'he circunislanee of the following paper having first
a|)]»eared in a non-inedical journal (Ihe Atiienaci’M,
Feb. 28, 18-10) will explain .some pecidiaritics of style
of a non-professional charaelm'.
.1, F.
.Ififtl) ^tn’fs.
MADEMOISELLE JULIE.
Uiiiiie aiiimi vitium taiito conapertiiis in >7
Crimt-n habct quanto major qiii peccat habctur.
Jvv. Sat. VIII.
Every now and then we read in the public print.s of
sonu? wretched old woman brought before the [mjUcc ma-
gistrate for practising, or pretenduig to jiroctisc witeli-
eraft, and thercthrougli swiiuUing certain desjiairiiig
widows or love-sick maid-servants out of their shilliii>rs
and sixpences. OceasiomiUy, also, wc find parties of the
same chiss and craft invading the province of the doctor,
and doing “ a snug little business” in the way of pre-
scribing for, and of course curing, the diseases of idl mid
sundrj’ who may become their clients. The medium
through which these wise women of the alleys and suburlw
of this great city jirofess to become mistresses of the
imdiulies of the unseen, b commonly a bit of nig from the
elothuig, a nail-paring, a lock of hair, or anything else
101 Mf:SMElUSM.
fomicctcd witli tlic person of the patient. The half-
crown being paid, tlic nature of the malady is declared,
and the means of cure S})ccified. This is very various,
according to the experience, the genius, or the fancy of
the prescriber. Sometimes the disease is combated by
what the Icanied would cidl dynamic means, such as
words* or gesture.s, or the doing certain things at cer-
tain hours, or the handling of black or white eats, the
plucking feathers from the tails of cocks, &c. At other
times, the vulgar matcriids wherewith doctors work arc
put in retpiisition ;
especially those more obsolete sort
of drugs, which, owing to the prime virtues of power-
lessncss and harndessness, have come down to our
limes, with uudimiuished fame, from the days of the
Aselej)iades or before. Cures maiwcUous and manifold
arc thus wrought ;
cures, the reality of which is never
(piestioncd ;
and which, to the philosophers of the alleys
and attics, seem, and arc, unrpicstionablc ; and no
marvel. Have not these reasoners the very same
grounds for their belief wliich satisfy their betters?
'I’he disease was declared ;
the remedy prescribed and
ailnunistered ;
ami the patient after a time got well.
What can be more convincing? If, being ignorant of
[iliysic, they arc ignorant of the fiict that nature has the
happy power of curing some diseases of her own mere
motion ;
and if, having studied neither llaeonnor Locke,
they coidbiiud se(pience with consecpience, the post hoc
* .Sunt verba et voees, <|uil)iis hunc lenire dolorem
I’ossis, et magiiam morbi (luj oiierc partem.
IIOK. lip. I. I.
MADKMOISELLE Jl'LlE. 10j
with the propter hoc, —can we blame severely, or at all,
tlu;ir loose logic or their halting reasoning ? Should we
not rather pity, and exeuse, and forgive them, laying
blame—if blame there be—on the lowliness of their lot
and ill! its attendant circumscriptions, which make igno-
rance unavoidable, science impossible? Alas,
—Knowledge to their eyes her ample page
Rich with the spoils of lime did ne’er unroil.
Nor, looking to the iullucnccs of the same condition,
the same circumstances, the same opportunities, the
same causes, should we regard with too deej) a disgust,
or visit with too fierce an indignation, the poor wretches
who thus practise on the ignorance and credulity of
their humble neighbours. In one sense, knowledge may
be said to be gooibiess as well as power: if it strengthens
the intellectual facidties into wisdom, it strengthens
the moral faculties into virtue. It has tliis tendency at
leiist ;
and if it docs not always do so, it often docs so.
Ought we, then, to feel suqirisc that among the children
of jienury anil ignorance there are deceivers as well as
du])es ?
Hut what shall we say for those who, without having
any of the same, grounds for excuse, exhibit the same
intellectual debility, the same debasing credulity, the
same lamentable ignorance and error? Could it be
credited, if it were not known as a positive cand melan-
choly truth, that it is by the upi>cr classes of society, by
our aristocracy, that quacks, charlatans, jiretenders, and
impostors of all sorts, arc more especially patronizetl ?
( )f this fact, scores of most |)crl incut illustrations pre-
10 §
lOG MKSMEIUSM.
sent lliem.sdvcs. Iiulectl the tiling is nmleniablc; is
notorious. W'lnit is its exjil.ination ? Can it be anglit
else Ilian (his—that among a jiortion of this elass of the
coinnmnity, with .ill their rcliiied and fashionable cnl-
tnre and acconii)lishment.s, science .and logic, and all
sound knowledge, scientilic truths, and the modes of
investigating them and judging of their nature, their
evidence and value —arc as little known Jis among their
social antipodes? If such is the fact, it is one iis melan-
choly to contem])latc as it is deejily to be deplored : it
is more :
—it is discreditable, unjustillable, fraught with
inueh present evil, ;ind ominous of more.
1 give the following brief naiTativc, iis explaining
and illustrating, and (1 hope) justifying the observations
and animadversions which precede. 1 leave to the
reader all comment on the case. To me it seems to
s|ieak for itself, “ with most miracidous organ,” disclos-
ing secrets of the most hiuniliating and portentous kind,
in (juarters where, least of idl, such tliselosui’cs shoidd
be possible.
During the hist six months there has been iiUocated
in tlic near neighbourhood of the most fashionable pre-
cinct of the AVest End, a certain youiifj Erenchwoman,
known by the inaine of Mauemoiseule Julie, who has
obtained a gi'cat reputation among our aristocracy as a
ciirer of diseases. She is about twenty yiuirs of age,
obviously from her manners and conversation of the
lower order of society, ill-educated, and indeed illiterate.
She is aceompaiiied by her mother, ;i person in manners
and bearing even inferior to her daughter, and by a
MADKMOISELLE JULIE. 107
gentleman who is said to be the brother-in-law of the
mother. These peoj)le at present oceiipy good furnished
lodgings in a street opening into one of the IVest-cnd
squares. Their princi])al operations are performed at
home; but Mademoiselle also condescends to visit j>a-
tieiits at their own houses, more especially those of high
rank and title.
The system adopted by Mademoiselle Julie is too in-
genious and too well cidculated to attnict attention from
the class by whom she is patronized, to allow us to doubt
that it Ims been ailopted after mature consideration and
with uiidice aforethought.
It is well kno^vn that the two most striking and at-
tractive delusions of recent times, 11o.M(EOP.\tiiy and
Mesmerism, have met with esj)eciid favour mid patron-
age from the upper classes of society in this country,
anil have, through their means cliietly, become, in con-
sequence, fashionable mid famous. The system of the
lair Julie has the singular merit not only of combining
these two celebrities, but of selecting their most attrac-
tive and agreeable parts, and separating them from all
that is oflensive and troublesome. Thus armed, thus
accomplished, is it surprising that her success has been
great, or that, from the tirst day of her descent upon
the rcabus ot fashion, she has gone on conquering and
to conquer?
Ibis is the system of our Wisc-Wommi of the West
I'lnd :
—The sick person cuts off a lock or her or his own
hair “ close to the head,” jilaces it, unprofaned by other
touch, upon a piece of white silk, folds this with his or
IDS MKSMKlllSM.
liiT own li!\iul, iiml liii!ill_v (Irposits it in mi ('iivclopc ol
dnan This facile mul sclf-cxccutcd nipc of tlic
lock is all that is required of the patient in the lirst in-
stance. No iloetor intrudes with his tronhlesonie and
disagreeable questions ;
no pulse need be felt, no tongue
need be shown ; no horrid /jcrew.wer or more horrid
nMAogcope nevd frighten the gentle breast from its pro-
priety. The lock is shorn, the deed is done; the
drop|)ed Morning /W is picked up, the new novel is
resumed; the ripi>leof a moment vanishes, and the sur-
face of life is tninqnil lus before. The next step is to
convey the precious lock to the cell of the \Vise-AVoman,
wlierc the real business begins. 'I’his is transacted as
follows:— The uncle or mother of Julie imignetizes or
mesmerizes her by some of the ordinary manipulations,
and she falls asleej) almost instantly (time is precious to
those who are paid by the half hour). 'Fhe hair is then
phu'cd in her hand by the juTson who brings it ;
this
person is ]>nt ru rapport with her, by simply touehing
her hand once; she removes the coverings from the
mystical lock, takes it into her hand, and then eom-
menees a very active and elabonite process of rubbing
and sipiee/.ing and picking it with the right hand, while
it is held by the left : occasionally, also, she smells it.
^Vhen this ]woeess has eontinned a few minutes, she
begins to touch and press her own body with the tingers
of the right hand, moving them fn)m one place to
another, sometimes nipidly, sometimes slowly, but
linally dwelling preferably on one plaee, which she con-
tinues to press and manipulate more mystically and
MAI)KMOl8KU,K JL'UK. 109
and at laat (ixcliiHi'vidy. It ifc then caaily
((iifftwd that liiTf i« the site of the |»atient’8 |)rineij)al
inahuly, and llnr ffiie>(H in wwn verified liy the words of
th(! I’ytlioneh.H. 'I'liew; wonLs are waited for hy the
iiiiele, |ieii in liand, and are iniinediately eoniinitted to
|)a))er as they are uttered alowly, intemijitedly, and in
a aulaliied, ahu-py tone. 'I’he rex-ord is nuule in the (ir.st
pirraon ainf'iilar, a« if the fair Julie were the patient.
“ I f(!<-l a jiain,”
—“ 1 fe«d a aeimtion,” &c., a mode <if
expreaaion whi(di i.a a<'eounted for hy the tnuwendant
fiu’t, of which laith Julie and her rwifr'rrr aaaure int, that
Ihrouf'h the niyatie iidlueinre of tin; hn lc of liair hy the
interinin^linf^ of iU (i. tt. the patient’aj miiynftic fluid
with her own, ali3, jxKjr soul, ia, for the nonc<;, made
the n;eipient of idl the iw;he.a, paima, aeiLaatioiw, —in
abort, of all the morhiil ayinptoma of the utuM,*en .suffertrr,
who may, for anytliiiifj she knows or cares, l>e hundred.s
of miles distant.
flood heaven, what a life of martyrdom must t)C that
of |K>or Juli(r! To have one’s [sjor earea.se made; the
stjif^e on whi(;h all the Inerrors that e.s<‘ap«;d fnjin I’an-
doia’s Ik)X are to jilay their part—oin; after another,
from morn to nif^ht ;
and, worse than all, a new om;
every lioiir. The very im!4'inalion of the tiling is in-
tolerahle; what mast he tin- rejdity ? The conception of
sinJi an intrinsic monopoly hy one (loor l>ody, of edl the
ills that llesh is heir to, |.uls that of Uante to shame.
I lie worst torments of the lufrrtu) must yield to the
rromethean suireriiiffs of the iinlia|)py Julie. And then,
what ineoneeivahle devotion to the eausi; of humanity.
no M’iSMEIlISM.
what unexampled fortitude, wliat lieroie coura^^e, to
dare and do all this, voluntarily, willingly, readily, cheer-
fully, yea eagerly ! It is, of course, impossible to be-
lieve that into a mind capable of doing and sudering
such things, the thought of fee or reward as compensa-
tion could enter ;
and, doubtless, the half-sovereign ])or
stance and per lock, is iicceptcd either in simple accord-
ance with the practice of vulgar doctors, or for the
juirpose of being expended in relieving the sulferiugs of
others, which, assuredly, none can know so tndy and
feel so surely as our poor Pythoness. But to return.
Having exposed the ills of one region, she passes to
another, then to a third (as the case may be), and so on
until she has given the full, tnic, and particular accouut
of idl the patient’s diseased organs and their various
symptoms. This is what the doctors call the diagriosis
of the disease (viz. the settling its nature and name),
which is followed by its prognosis, or exposition of its
residt ;
and, last of all, comes the treatment. This is
set about as follows : —A small l)ox or tray containing
upwards of two hundred tiny bottles is set before her.
These bottles arc those used by the lioimcopathists,
each containing its midtitudes of globules of medicated
sugar of milk, with the name of the contained remedy
pasted on each.* She passes her fingers rapidly over
• As some re.idcrs m.iy be ignor.iiit of ihe usuiil quantity of me-
dicinal matter contained in one of these globules (a <lose), 1 may
state, In passing, that if a grain of any of the meillcinal substances
were dissolved in the Lake of Ceneva or in the Caspian .Sea, a sUiyle
drop of the marine solution poured uiion one of these globules,
would be tlie lit and proper dose for the particular malady for which
the remedy is given.
M\nEMOISKLl.E JULIE. Ill
the corks of this multitude of bottles, and selects three
or four, wlicn the rest arc put aside. She snilTs at the
selected few, and at length fixes on one ;
tliis is the
certain remedy for the disease, if it is remediable, or its
emollient, if it is incurable. The half-sovereign is then
paid, and the seance breaks up.
During the whole course of the proceedings, Jidic
remains with her eyes nearly or wholly closed, and
speaks in a subdued tone ; but exJiibits no speciid iudi-
ealion to the obsener of being in any pccubar condition
but what might be expected from any person ]>erfoniiing
the part tliat is performed by licr. She converses freely
witli the person originally phiccd en rapport wdth her,
and answers any question lie may j)ut in relation to the
patient or to lierself.
My personal knowledge of Julie and her proceedings
is limited to two %'isits on two successive diiys, recent ly
paid at her lodgings in street. These visits
were piiid at the suggestion of a gentleman of rank, for
one of whose relatives Julie h<u.l prescribed; and who,
although a believer in her marvellous doings, was yet
anxious that one who had had somewhat more experi-
ence with the mesmerists should observe her proceed-
ings and test her powers. 1 willingly consented to
accompany this gentleman to the cell of the Wise-
Woman, not, of course, to settle miy doubts 1 mysell’
entertained of the true etumicter of the whole alTidr
for of this 1 had no doubts—but in hopes that some-
thing might occur that would disabuse one honoundile
mind, at least, it it did not even help to break the de-
112 MKSMKlU.Sil,
grading and despicable spell wliicli had snared and bound
the jndgincnt of liniidn'ds of bis owni high class, reducing
llicm, in Ibis respect, lo the level of the lowest. T was
cawarc of the risk 1 was running of belping to confinn,
instead of exposing, tbeir absurd infatuation—wbicb
would be the conscrpicnce of Jidie’s guesses bap])cning
to be right in the particular eases I was to submit to
her. On the other baud, 1 thought that a few very
simple precautions in the selection of the cases, and in
the inode of presenting them, woidd turn the chances on
my side. I need hardly say that I knew the jircteuded
knowledge to be an impossibility ;
but 1 knew, at the
same time, that the symptoms of diseases arc so various
and vague, and many of such uniform occurrence in
(bsease, that it would not be very dillicult by an enume-
ration of more or fewer of these common or luiiversal
symptoms, to give a colour of accuracy where nothing
of the kind existed. And in the cases which had been
already reported to me as successful instances of Julie’s
powers, 1 perceived that this was the usual course of
her ]irocecdiug. 1 selected my cases accordingly
cases strongly marked, thoroughly definite, and Avith
such bold and eharactcristic features that the fadurc to
state time must be admitted as a total failure, however
much mention might be made of many other sjunjitoms
of <an inferior or immaterial kind. And in order to
satisfy my friends that no special pleading would be
possible cither on my part or theirs, T jdaecd a memo-
randum of the nature of each ease in a sealed cnv(!lo]ie,
to be ojicncd at the close of the sitting, and compared
MADEMOISELLE JULIE. 113
with the written revelations of the fair seer. In doing
this, I eonfess that I felt iny position somewhat htmiili-
ating, as if I were still open to the suspicion of enter-
taining some doubts as to the real stiite of things.
However, for the reasons given above, I went on.
I had prepared three cases of disease ;
but I only
consulted the fiiir Julie for two—one on each day. 1
regret that I cannot give here the full and exact
particulars of each case, as they arc uow lying before
me in my own memoranda and those taken down from
the dictation of Julie : but these arc only suited to the
the pages of a medical journal. The following geueral
outline, however, will suffice for my luescut puqiose :
Case First—was that of a girl of twelve years of age,
who has a most horrible and disfiguring disease of the
mouth, but is in the most perfect health in other respects.
So said my sealed mcmonuida. Julie’s diagnosis, now
l)cforc me, is, that there is disease of the hc:ul and
lungs, and .stomaeh and kidneys, with general debility,
fever, &c. &c., but not one word respecting the actual
diseiusc ! Upon being questioned as to the sex of the
patient, she sjiid the individuid was a woman (“ «/«r
femme not /f//e.)
Case Second—W!is that of a man, with an incurable
disease of a peculiar kind, havmg its seat in the left
lung, and u’ho laboured umler no other disease, excejit
debility and general derangement of functions necessa-
rily dei>eiuleut on so severe a malady. Mailemoisclle
Julie’s incmonuidum says not one word of any (bsease
of the lungs or other organs of tlie chest, but places idl
11
114 MADKMOISELLE JULIE.
the mischief at tlic other extremity of the body, and
allocates the main disease in an organ not jiossessed by
that half of the species to which the individual belongs !
'I'lic hair was declared to be a woman's, and the disease
one peculiar to the sex !
This, T tliink, is what in vulgar language is called “ a
clincher,” and with it 1 take my leave of the subject of
Mademoiselle Julie. If, after receiving this taste of the
quality of their oracle, her fashionable jiatrons and
|)atrouesscs still continue to frciiucut her shrine, accept
her inspirations, and obey her behests, it is to be at
least hoped that the ])olice magistrate wDl henceforth
visit with pity and forgiveness, and not with reproach
and punishment, the vulgar witches of the suburban
alleys, or their jioverty-stricken and unlettered vdetims.
After what is above truly reported of the sayings and
doings of ^Mademoiselle Julie, the reader is left to fonn
his own judgment as to her precise bodily and mental
condition while making her revelations. I will only
say, that not an iota of evidence exists in favour of the
alleged fact of her being in that peculiar state termed
by adepts, mesmeric or magnetic sleep, or somnambu-
lism. To mine and to all common eyes, she seemed
simply to be a very zealous but Inmgliug fortune-teller,
as wide awake as her nature permitted, but with her
eyes shut. 1 think the very mesmerists will hardly
contend for the opposite view of the ease ;
although the
c.xtcnt of her blunders ought by no means to deprive
her of their good word and patroiuige.
Two moiH- observations 1 will make before concluding.
MADEMOISELLE JULIE. 115
wliich, considered in all their bearings, tend, I think, to
account for a good deal of Julie’s success with the class
of j)crsons who consult her.
None but those who have given a good deal of atten-
tion to the subject, and seen much of proceedings of tlie
sort now under notice, can bch'eve the utter incapiicity
of the majority even of educated persons to appreciat»!
evidence as to matters of fact. And when the parlies
observation of the phenomena arc un-
reasoning partizans of the doctrine mvolvcd in them
(jis they generally are), it is literally true that 1 rifles
light as air are to such persons conlirmatiou strong as
proofs of Holy W rit. Although it is almost j)rofana-
tion to quote Bacon on au occasion hke this, still, as his
great words tell strongly on the matter in hand, I ven-
ture to give them in corrobomtion of the remark just
made :
“ The light of the understanding,” he says, “ is
not a dry or pure light, but drenched in the wiU and
aflcctions, and the intellect fonns its knowledge accord-
ingly: for what men desire should be true, tlicy arc
inost inclined to believe When the mind is once
pleased with certain tilings, it draws all others to con-
sent amigo along with them; and though the power
and number of instances that make for the contrary- arc
greater, yet it either attends not to them or despises
tlicm, or else removes and rejects them by a distinction,
with a strong and pernicious prcjutUce to maintain the
authority of its first choice unviolated.” (Nov. Org )
The other obsenation is this :-Had I given Julie, on
my /r.v/ visit, the lock of hair which 1 gave her on mv
116 MADEMOISELLE JULIE.
second, her description of the disease (though really
false) would assuredly have been regarded by her vota-
ries as an additional proof of her omniscience ; inasmuch
as on tJiat occasion she really did bit on the organ which
was affected in the other case ! On such slight chances
do the fame and fortimcs of the great oracles of the
world depend. The dilfercnce of sex would have been
regarded as of no importance, being readily “ rejected
aud removed by a distinction.”
riNi.s.
C mill J AUlmd, I’Hlitnn, Bmlholomi-M- Clour.
