{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__grimes___etherology.pdf","mytitle":"Etherology","mylang":"de"}
ETHEBOLOGT;
OR,
THE PHILOSOPHY OF MESMERISM
PHRENOLOGY
INCLUDING A NEW
PHILOSOPHY OF SLEEP AND OF CONSCIOUSNESS,
WITH A REVIEW OF
THE PRETENSIONS OF NEUROLOGY AND PHRENO-MAGNETISM-
BY J. STANLEY GRIMES,
COUNSELLOR AT LAW, FORMERLY PRESIDENT OF THE WESTERN PHRENOLOGICAL SOCIETY,
PROFESSOR OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE IN THE CASTLETON MEDICAL COLLEGE,
AND AUTHOR OF 'ANEW SYSTEM OF PHRENOLOGY.'
All the known phenomena of the universe may be referred to three general princi-
ples, viz . : Matter, Motion, and Consciousness.—p. 17.
NEW YORK:
SAXTON AND MILES, NO. 205 BROADWAY,
PHILADELPHIA :—JAMES M. CAMPBELL.
BOSTON : SAXTON, PEIRCE & CO.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1845, by
J. STANLEY GRIMES,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Southern District
of New York.
fp / 3 I
PHRENOLOGICAL BUST.
See Page 164.
31 ST
CONTENTS
SECTION I. page.
SYXOFSIS OF ETHEROLOGY ..... 17
SECTION II.
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM ..... 39
Ignorance of the Ancients concerning the causes of Ethe-
rean Phenomena —Witchcraft —Divination —Magic —•
Discoveries which led to a Scientific Knowledge of Ethe-
ropathy—Van Helmot—-Mesmer—-His Career—D'Eslon
—Adverse Report of the French Commissioners—Foissac
and the Academy of Medicine—Their favorable report
—Gall—La Place.
SECTION III.
NATURE OF ETHERIUM ..... 75
Theory of Light—Of Heat—Of Electricity—Of Magnetism—
Of Gravitation—Newton's Conjecture—Rev. Mr. Town-
shend on the Mesmeric Medium—Sunderland's Notions
—Animal Electricity—Experiments of Crosse—-Electric
Fishes.
SECTION IV.
OXYGEN 127
SECTION V.
PHILOSOPHY OF SLEEP . . . . . 130
Liebig's rror.
VI CONTENTS.
SECTION VI.
ORGAN OF CONSCIOUSNESS ..... 136
Infusoria—Immortality—Rationalism.
SECTION VII.
INTER-PHRENO SENSES ..... 149
External Senses—Internal Corporeal Senses—Cousin's Cri-
ticism upon Locke.
SECTION VIII.
MOTION . . . . . . . .155
All motion communicated—Nothing originates motion but
God—Sympathy is same motion.
SECTION IX.
TRIUNE SYSTEM OF PHRENOLOGY . . . .164
Temperaments—Engraving and bust to show the location
of the Organs—Summary of the Principles of Phrenology.
SECTION X.
ETHEROPATHY ......
Credencive Induction—Imitativeness—Credenciveness.
SECTION XI.
ETHEROPATHY, CONTINUED ....
Clairvoyance.
181
210
SECTION XII.
ETHEROPATHY, CONTINUED .....
Abnormal Sleep—Manifestations of Uncommon Strength-
Conferring Power on Medicine, Water, &c.—Reading Cha-
racter—Discoveries in Phrenology and Physiology by
Fowler, Buchanan and Sunderland.
219
CONTENTS. Vll
SECTION X1I1.
NEUROLOGY ....... 248
Buchanan —Caldwell's Letter —Buchanan's Discoveries —
His " Catalogue of Organs."
SECTION XIV.
PHRENO-MAGNETISM, PATHETISM AND HYPNOTISM . 271
Polarity of Organs—Sunderland's Experiments and Dis-
coveries—London Phrenological Society Meeting—Elliot-
son's Address—Gardiner's Experiments—The Doctrines
Denied —Reasons —Elliotson's Experiments —Lang
—
Braid.
SECTION XV.
COMMUNION WITH SPIRITS ..... 304
SECTION XVI.
ABUSES OF ETHEROPATHY ..... 309
Immoral Induction—Local Induction.
SECTION XVII.
RULES FOR EXPERIMENTS ..... 314
Credencive Experiments—Experiments during Somnambu-
lism—Upon Diseased Persons.
SECTION XVIII.
INDUCTION OF BRUTE ANIMALS .... 322
The "Charm" of Serpents —Dr. Wilson's Experiments
upon Animals.
APPENDIX.
EXPRESSIONS OF OPINION 331
Resolutions passed at Union College—Horsford's Report
adopted by the Albany Phrenological Society—Lectures
at Albany—Resolutions adopted, &c.—Lectures in Hud-
son—Resolutions adopted.
ERRATA.
Page 40, 15th line from top, for sensation read veneration,
" " 19th " " f'or principals read priestesses.
I have sometimes used the word etherium when 1 meant motions
of etherium.
PREFACE
While hundreds, and perhaps thousands, are en-
gaged in repeating old experiments, and trying* new
ones in Mesmerism and Clairvoyance, no successful
attempt has hitherto been made to explain the pheno-
mena upon scientific principles, and to show their con-
sistency with previously known truth.
In philosophy facts are useful only as far as they
lead to a true theory , and a theory is only a method of
showing the true relation which exists among the facts.
When a theory is, or seems to be, well established,
any fact which appears to militate against it is apt to
be disputed, or received with caution and credulity.
For this reason mankind have been disposed to oppose
new discoveries and innovations which render a change
necessary in their theories, creeds, opinions or habits.
It is not because they are unfriendly to improvement,
but because they doubt the reality of the discovery, or
the real practical importance and utility of the proposed
change. It rather demonstrates their love of truth,
for they, like St. Paul, verily believe that they are
doing their duty by resisting the introduction of error.
But if the new truth can be made to harmonise with
the old opinions, it is then cordially received into the
X PREFACE.
family of admitted facts, which go to constitute our
favorite theories. The facts of a science may be com-
pared to the scattered and broken, bones of a skeleton,
while a theory is the method by which they can be put
together and proved to belong all of them to one ani-
mal.
The facts in mesmerism call to mind a collection of
strange bones once found in England, which appar-
ently belonged to animals of a different kind from any
that had ever been known to exist on earth. Some
very learned and sagacious men at first denied the
existence of the bones ; but when they were dragged
to light, and protruded before them so that they could
no longer avoid acknowledging their existence, they
declared that such enormous limbs must have a su-
pernatural origin, and that they were undoubtedly the
bones of fallen angels ! Upon further examination by
scientific men, it was found that they were bones of
whales, and other marine animals, that had been ages
ago " in the deep bosom of the ocean buried," and
that the place had been afterwards raised to eminence,
like classic Delos, upon the shoulders of an ambitious
and aspiring volcano.
The facts in mesmerism are exceedingly numerous,
and some of them of a most wonderful and monstrous
character. They have been denied again and again,
even by those who have witnessed them ; and when
admitted to be true they have also been accounted for
by referring them to a supernatural origin ; but the
PREFACE. XI
time has come when these facts should, like the facts
in Geology, Chemistry and Astronomy, be wrested
from the hands of superstition, mystery and quackery,
and moulded into symmetrical forms of scientific
beauty. This is a most difficult and laborious task, and
any one who undertakes it may fairly claim some in-
dulgence for the imperfections of his performance. I
am desirous to do for mesmerism what my friends claim
that f have done for phrenology—to reduce it to a
scientific system.
In the year 1834 I commenced lecturing upon
Phrenology, but did not otherwise publish my pecu-
liar views of this science until 1839, when my u New
System of Phrenology" was laid before the public.
That work contained a new classification and arrange-
ment of the Phreno-organs, a new system of Phreno-
Physiognomy, a new doctrine of hereditary resem-
blance, and several newly discovered Phreno-Organs.
That these things were not essentially new no one
has attempted to show, but their truth was denied by
every author who had previously committed himself
by advocating different doctrines upon these subjects.
Mr. George Combe had just arrived in this country
at the time when the work was issued. It was gene-
rally understood that the mantle of the illustrious
Spurzheim had fallen in an especial manner upon
him; and I was therefore desirous to receive his sanc-
tion of the new doctrines which I had advanced. But
before I had an opportunity to make his acquaintance;
Xll PREFACE.
I learned that he considered the New System as dan-
gerous to his own personal ambition, and that on this
ground he apposed it, not by fact or argument, but by
his influence with his friends. He avoided mention-
ing it in his lectures and writings, and when the sub-
ject was urged upon his attention by some one who
thought my doctrines correct, he seemed to be ex-
ceedingly annoyed and irritated. Under these circum-
stances I declined his acquaintance, and determined
to appeal to the scientific public. I was then engaged
in lecturing in Pittsburg, Penn.; and being informed
by a correspondent that Mr. Combe was to lecture
in Albany, I immediately proceeded to that city and
gave a course of lectures, in which I stated to the
highly respectable audience that attended, the grounds
of the difference between the two systems. At the
conclusion of my course I was gratified to find my
system had made a favorable impression, the evidence
of which may be found in the proceedings and reso-
lutions recorded in the appendix to this work.
I then proceeded to the city of New-York, where I
delivered a very successful course of lectures. In the
meantime Mr. Combe gave his lectures in Albany, and
at their conclusion a Phrenological Society was formed,
and Mr. Combe's collection of plaster casts of heads
purchased for illustrations. The relative merits of
the two systems became the subject of much discus-
sion, and I was invited to return to Albany and repeat
my lectures. I consented, and finding that the
PREFACE. Xlll
influence of Combe, Caldwell and Fowler was all
united to create a state of public opinion unfavorable
to what I deemed the cause of truth, I was desirous
to provoke a discussion which would give me an op-
portunity to vindicate myself. I therefore addressed
a letter to the President of the Phrenological Society,
requesting the appointment of a committee composed
of their most competent members, to investigate and
determine the relative merits of the two systems. The
committee seemed to be actuated only by the spirit of
truth; and accordingly, after a laborious investigation,
and after corresponding with Combe, Caldwell, Has-
kins, and other distinguished authors, they made a
unanimous report in my favor. This report produced
a very powerful sensation. It consists of twenty-eight
pages, drawn up in a masterly manner by the chair-
man, Professor E. N. Horsford, and laid before the
Society for their consideration. Professor Dean,
(author of several very able works on Phrenology,)
read an argument of thirty pages in opposition to the
report. One of his adherents read another of about
equal length. At the same time the American Phre-
nological Journal arrived in the city, thirteen pages
of which were occupied with a very hostile review of
my book, written by Dr. Caldwell, of Kentucky, a
gentleman of great ability, and the author of several
works upon this subject.
Professor Horsford replied to the objections and ar-
guments which had been adduced, and in the face of
XIV P R F E A C E .
the whole array of eloquence, authorities and prejudice,
succeeded in obtaining for his report the sanction of a
large majority of the Society, after it had been six
months under their inspection, and the ingenuity of
the most able critics in the country exhausted upon it.
It is worthy of remark that when the investigation
commenced not one of the committee approved of my
views.
This Report was all that I could wish. Two
thousand copies were printed, and it was widely
circulated. It was sent to every one who was sup-
posed to take especial interest in the subject—but up
to the present time no one has attempted to con-
trovert its positions, or deny the correctness of its
conclusions.
If any one inquires why all phrenological authors
and lecturers did not at once adopt this system, or
else show its imperfections, I can only answer by re-
ferring to the history of other improvements. Human
nature always exhibits the same traits under similar
circumstances.
When the Albany Report was sent by the Chair-
man to a periodical which professed to be a Phreno-
logical Journal, the editor was not permitted to notice
it, such was the hostility of the proprietor to the new
system. I will not comment upon these facts, but
content myself by making them known. In the
meantime, the public generally, and all those who
(not being themselves authors, nor the dependents
PREFACE. XV
of authors) , were disinterested and independent,
without a single exception within my knowledge,
have admitted the correctness of the Report, and the
superiority of the new system.
When the doctrines of Phreno-Magnetism and
Neurology were announced, and were making con-
verts by thousands, and multitudes of new organs
were daily discovered by these means, so that my
favorite science was threatened with an overwhelm-
ing inundation, I was forced to take up. this subject
in earnest. Almost every friend I met asked my
opinion of the new doctrines and new organs, and
seemed surprised at my skepticism. This has led me
to the determination of publishing this volume, that I
may thus at once justify myself, and vindicate what
seem to me the true principles of phrenology. If I
am mistaken in any of the positions which I have
assumed, there will doubtless be enough to correct me,
and I shall acknowledge the correction with gratitude.
I have several times given the substance of this work
in public lectures—and the approbation with which
it has been received, especially at West Point and at
Union College* far surpassed my most sanguine hopes.
The plan which I have adopted for this work is, to
present first a brief outline or summary of the whole,
comprised in a few pages, and then to take up each
important topic and treat it separately. It appears to
* See Appendix, p. 331, 348.
XVI PREFACE.
me that this method will assist both the understanding
and the memory of the reader.
In regard to other authors, I have made use of their
language wherever I adopted their ideas, provided I
found them suitably expressed, and in such cases I
have given all due credit. Wherever I differ from
others, I have quoted their expressions sufficiently to
do justice to their real meaning, and then freely and
frankly given my own opinion, and exposed what ap-
peared to me to be their errors. There has been
so many new doctrines advanced within a short time,
both on the subject of Phrenology and Mesmerism,
that I must necessarily assume the office of a critic in
speaking of the performances of others. I am aware
that I shall be liable to the charge of arrogance ; but
at the present time, scarcely two Phrenologians nor
Mesmerologists can be found who agree ; any one,
therefore, who treats upon both these subjects at once,
with the design of producing an harmonious system,
must seem to assume that he is wiser than l11 others,
and capable of filling the chair of grand-master of the
fraternity. No modesty of expression, nor respect-
fulness of style can shield him from this imputation.
Under these circumstances I have deemed it best to
" speak right straight on," regardless of the apparent
egotism, and to " utter my thoughts" with entire in-
dependence of every thing but truth and justice.
J. STANLEY GRIMES,
Lansingburgh, Rensselaer Co.,N. Y.
ETHEROLOGY;
OR,
THE PHILOSOPHY OF MESMERISM.
SECTION I
SYNOPSIS OF ETHEROLOGY.
1. All the known phenomena of the universe may be
referred to three general principles, viz. : matter, motion,
and consciousness. Every thing that we know is a modifi-
cation of one or all of these three.
2. One portion of matter cannot influence another, nor
can one mind influence another, but through the instrumen-
tality of motion.
3. One thing cannot influence another with which it is
not in contact, unless there is some material substance ex-
isting or passing between every portion of the space which
separates them ;
—that is, no motion can be communicated
from one body, nor from one mind to another, unless there
is a material connection ; —therefore, when one does influence
another, there is necessarily a material connection, through
the medium of which motion is communicated.
2
18 S Y N O P S I S .
4. Fact. The planets influence each other and the earth.
Fact. Philosophers agree that the (so called) ponderable
matter of the atmosphere does not extend more than eighty-
miles above the earth's surface.
Fact. Heat, light, electricity, magnetism, and gravitation,
operate in an exhausted receiver, as well as elsewhere.
Fact. One mind sometimes influences another independ-
ently of ordinary sensation or muscular motion, without
contact or perceptible connection.
Inference. There is a material substance occupying space,
which connects the planets and the earth, and which
communicates light, heat, electricity, gravitation, and mental
emotion, from one body to another, and from one mind to
another.
Name. I shall denominate this substance Etherium.
5. Definition. Etherium is an exceedingly subtile and elastic
substance. Its constituent atoms are inconceivably small.
It sometimes exists in a separate state, and sometimes it
exists in combination with ponderable substances ; some-
times it is comparatively at rest, and sometimes in motion.
When it comes in contact with ponderable matter, it is
capable of receiving or of communicating motion.
The phenomena of heat, light, gravitation, electricity,
magnetism, muscular motion, and mesmerism, are only the
results of different motions and modus operandi of etherium.
6. Motion has but two attributes, viz : quantity and direc-
tion. The origin of motion, like the origin of matter, is be-
yond the sphere of human knowledge. We see motion
communicated from one thing to another, but we know not
" whence it cometh nor whither it goeth ;" and we can never
know, unless we can " by searching find out God." We
only know motion by its effects upon matter, and, from ob-
serving these effects, philosophers have discovered certain
general rules which they denominate the laws of motion.
SYNOPSIS. 19
7. It is a law of motion, that when two bodies are both
perfectly elastic, and both move in the same direction, in
the same right line,—if one moves more rapidly, and over-
takes and strikes the other, both will continue afterwards to
move in the same direction with equal rapidity, the sum
of the two motions being the same that it was before ; for
what is lost by one is gained by the other.
If they move with equal force from opposite directions,
and come in contact, they will rebound, and both move in
contrary directions with equal velocities. If one of the op-
posing bodies is of inferior force, it will, after contact, tend
to conform in its direction to that of the superior force, to a
degree equal to its inferiority.
8. If two bodies come in contact which are both destitute
of elasticity, neither will rebound ; if the forces are unequal,
the motion after contact will be equal to the difference ; but
if they are equal, both will lose all tendency to continue
their former motion. These laws of motion apply to all
known bodies, and aid us in solving many of the operations
of etherium ; since this substance is composed of atoms, or
exceedingly minute elastic bodies, which move in right lines
to produce the phenomena of light, heat, elasticity, gravita-
tion, and mesmerism.
9. There are two equal and antagonistic forces in nature,
the origin of both of which is unknown. They are some-
times denominated centripetal and centrifugal forces, some-
times attraction and repulsion, and sometimes positive and ne-
gative forces. These two forces being equal, balance each other
continually, except when other forces interfere to destroy
the balance ; —then both these forces move, though in oppo-
site directions, until both are again antagonized and
balanced.
These two forces are communicated by means of etherium,
20 SYNOPSIS.
and all the positive and negative phenomena are produced
by the disturbance of the balance of antagonistic columns
of etherium. There are many reasons for concluding that
even muscular motion and sensation are referable to this
cause.
10. The phenomena of sensation and muscular motion,
both voluntary and involuntary, are produced by the mo-
tions of etherium, communicated from certain external
objects to certain internal organs or points in the nervous
system, and from these points back again to the external
objects.
1 1
.
There are two distinct classes of motions in man and
all other animals, viz. : Voluntary and Involuntary. The
involuntary motions are produced by currents of etherium
communicated from the surfaces of the heart, stomach,
and other involuntary muscular organs, to certain different
points in the nervous system, denominated ganglions, and
from these ganglionic points back again to the heart, stomach,
etc. ; thus completing a circuit which exactly resembles
that of a galvanic apparatus.
12. The voluntary motions are produced by currents of
etherium, communicated from different external objects to
one point in the medulla oblongata, which point may be deno-
minated the organ of Consciousness ; and, from that con-
scious point, back again, through the nerves, to external
objects, completing another circuit, which, in every essen-
tial, is precisely like those of the involuntary system, with
this exception, that the central point of the voluntary sys-
tem is endowed with Consciousness, but the central points
of the involuntary system are not so endowed.
13. The external senses are avenues through which ethe-
rium is permitted, constitutionally, to pass to the phreno-or-
SYNOPSIS. 21
gans of the brain ; and the phreno-organs are avenues through
which the etheriuni from the senses and from the blood is
modified and transmitted to the organ of Consciousness, and
from thence, through the motor nerves, to the muscles ; and,
as the muscles make some resistance, motion is the conse-
quence. After the etherium has produced motion, it passes
to the external world, and mingles with the general mass of
etherium.
14. The organ of consciousness is thus the central head-
quarters, where all external impressions terminate, and
whence all voluntary movements emanate. It is the start-
ing point and termination of the circuit.
15. In performing this circuit the motions of the ethe-
rium are peculiarly modified in each successive avenue or
stage through which it is obliged to pass, and this modifica-
tion is undoubtedly regulated by the laws of motion already
mentioned.
First. Etherium is modified by each external object from
which it emanates ; for there is no doubt that every object
imparts its own peculiar characters, in some degree at least,
to the etherium which it is continually receiving and emit-
ting : this doctrine is a part of the modern theory of heat,
light, and magnetism, and it applies equally to those emana-
tions which produce sound, odor, savor, &c.
Second. Etherium is modified again by the intervening
medium through which it passes from external objects to
the external organs of sense ; thus, light is refracted and
otherwise modified in passing through air, vapor, water,
glass, &c, so also is sound modified by the varying density,
rarity or elasticity of the medium through which its ethe-
rium is propagated ; and the same is true of odors and
savors,—for all these sensations unquestionably depend upon
currents of etherium.
22 SYNOPSIS.
Third. It is modified also by the structure and condition
of the external organs of the senses through which it enters,
—as the external eye, ear, and nose.
Fourth. Etherium is modified by the structure and size
and condition of the nerves through which it passes from
the external organs of sense to the phreno-organs,—as the
optic, the auditory, the gustatory, &c.
Fifth. It is modified by the phreno-organs.
Sixth. By the organ of consciousness.
Seventh. By the nerves of motion through which it
passes from consciousness to the muscles.
Eighth. By the muscles.
Ninth. By the surrounding objects to which it passes
after it has been expended upon the muscles. All these
different and successive avenues constitute the circuit,
16. The phreno-organs not only modify and transmit the
etherium which they receive from the nerves of sensation,
but they also receive a large quantity of etherium from the
blood, and transmit it, through consciousness, to the mus-
cles. It would seem, indeed, that the senses merely admit
as much etherium as will serve to excite the phreno-organs
to discharge their accumulations through the motor nerves
and muscles.
17. The modification of motion which each phreno-organ
produces in the etherium which passes through it, is pecu-
liar to itself and different in each one from that of every
other. This is proved by the fact that the consciousness
produced by each organ is peculiar to itself, so that we can
distinguish between the consciousness produced by any one
organ, and that produced by any other. Thus, Destructive-
ness and Cautiousness, and Kindness and Color, produce
greatly different states of consciousness, and such as are
easily distinguished from each other.
SYNOPSIS. 23
18. Consciousness is produced in the same manner in all
other animals as in man. All animals have a central organ
of Consciousness, but some classes of animals have a greater
number of modifying avenues ; that is, they have a greater
number of senses and phreno-organs, through which ethe-
rium enters to effect consciousness. Some classes of
animals also, have a greater number of avenues, (nerves of
motion,) through which etherium passes from the central
organ of Consciousness. It is this difference in the number
and kind of avenues to and from Consciousness which is at
the foundation of the science of Comparative Phrenology.
19. In animals of the same class,—in man, for instance
—
the number and kind of avenues, to and from consciousness,
is the same in every individual, except in cases of deformi-
ty. But even in the same class, whether we compare dif-
ferent men, or different avenues in the same man, there is
an essential difference in the size, the capacity, the calibre,
the condition, the strength and perfection, of the avenues to
and from Consciousness. It is the difference in these re-
spects which is the basis of Practical Phrenology, as applied
to mankind.
20. There is a class of organs or fibres, which may be
denominated inter-phreno senses ; the office of which is to
convey currents of etherium from the organ of conscious-
ness to the several phreno-organs ; so that each phreno-or-
gan may act or not, in any given case, according to the
condition of Consciousness.
When any phreno-organ acts, it necessarily produces con-
sciousness before it produces muscular motion ; and, as every
phreno-organ is in communication with Consciousness, by
means of the inter-phreno senses, each organ will, of course, be
excited according to the impression it receives from Con-
sciousness . The idea may be expressed thus : Whenever Con-
24 SYNOPSIS.
sciousness is impressed by one phreno-organ, it radiates the
impression to all the other phreno-organs. I do not, how-
ever, pretend that the inter-phreno-senses have been demon-
strated by experiment, or anatomy ; (unless the diverging
fibres discovered by Spurzheim perform this office ;) my
notions on this subject are founded on reason rather than
observation. I consider them as legitimate inferences from
admitted facts.
21. The quantity of etherium evolved from the blood
to carry on the operations of the constitution, is in propor-
tion to the quantity of oxygen which combines in the lungs
with the food from the stomach. The quantity of the
action of any animal is in proportion to the amount of oxy-
gen consumed.
22. As a general proposition, the larger the lungs, com-
pared with the stomach, in man, or any animal, ceteris pari-
bus, the more concentrated is the food chosen, and the
more rapid is the digestion and secretion. On the contrary,
the smaller the lungs, compared with the stomach, the coarser
and less concentrated is the food, and the slower it is digested.
The reason is this : the oxygen unites with the food in defi-
nite proportions, so that when the lungs are small and the
stomach large, the lungs must work rapidly to supply oxy-
gen to the food, or else the digestion will be slow. When
the lungs are large and the stomach small, the stomach must
work rapidly to supply food to the oxygen.
23. If an ordinary sized stomach and lungs be supplied
with a moderate quantity of rather coarse and unconcen-
trated food, the etherium will be generated slowly, and the
operations of mind and body will be moderate. But if, with
the same lungs and stomach, a concentrated and stimulating
kind of food be used which saturates all the oxygen which
SYNOPSIS. 25
the lungs can supply, the quantity of etherium generated in
a given time will be much greater, and the operations of
body and mind will be proportionably vigorous and ener-
getic.
24. The blood goes from the lungs to the heart charged
with oxygen, and from the heart to the innumerable arte-
rial extremities or capillaries ; and it is in passing through
these minute capillary tubes that the chemical process takes
place, which produces the motions of etherium on which
life and thought depend.
25. Etherium,evolvedby the decomposition of the blood
in the capillaries of the brain, passes through the voluntary
motor nerves to the voluntary muscles, producing voluntary
motion. It enters the ganglions and passes to the invol-
untary muscles, and produces involuntary motion. The
blood also furnishes etherium to the muscular and other
tissues to enable them to transmit sensations to the gang-
lions and brain, and thus to solicit motion in return for
sensation.
26. The perfection and energy with which etherium is
evolved from the blood in the capillaries, and imparted to
the nerves, depends upon the health and condition of the
minute structure of the capillaries in which the operation is
performed. This again depends upon the climate, habits,
food, health and appetite of the individual. These are cir-
cumstances difficult to define, and still more difficult to esti-
mate.
27. All the etherium evolved by the blood is divided be-
tween the voluntary and involuntary organs ; or, in other
words, it is divided between the brain and its dependencies,
and the ganglions and their dependencies. The share allot-
2*
26 SYNOPSIS.
ted to each is in proportion to their relative quantities of
muscular motion and functional action.
28. The involuntary motions are continued without in-
terruption from the commencement of life until its termina-
tion ; in fact, they constitute life. But the voluntary mo-
tions are suspended in man about one third of the time : in
some classes of animals more, in others less. During this
regular suspension of voluntary motion we are said to sleep.
29. The reason of this suspension, or sleep, is founded
upon economy. It is not necessary for us to keep awake
twenty-four hours, for we can perform all our duties in less
time ; accordingly, there is not sufficient etherium evolved
during twenty-fourhours to supply both the voluntary and
involuntary systems during the whole of that time.
30. If the involuntary motions are suspended, we die. If
the voluntary, we sleep. If both continue till the etherium
is exhausted, we die ; as there is not sufficient etherium
generated to supply both systems continually.
31. The material, (carbon and hydrogen,) which combines
with oxygen to produce motions of etherium, is all generat-
ed and secreted by the involuntary organs, and as much is
used by them as they need ; the surplus is expended through
the voluntary organs, the intercommunication which exists
between the voluntary and involuntary systems allowing of
this arrangement.
32. The predominant influence of the involuntary system
which enables it thus to monopolize all the etherium during
sleep,doubtless depends upon the superior energy ofthe impres-
sions upon the involuntary senses compared with those of the
voluntary senses ; or, in other words, upon the superior force
SYNOPSIS. 27
of the currents of etherium which the involuntary senses
send to the ganglions to excite them to send motions in re-
turn. For if the voluntary senses are impressed in an ex-
traordinary manner, sleep is delayed and the voluntary sys-
tem gains a temporary triumph.
33. There is an accumulation of nutritious substance in cer-
tain reservoirs during sleep, which is ready to combine with
oxygen and evolve etherium when we awake. This surplus,
accumulated during sleep, is generally equal to the deficit
produced while awake.
34. In order to illustrate this subject, let us consider the
voluntary and involuntary muscles of man as two machines,
A and B, moved by one galvanic battery (which is supplied
with acid, made from alcohol combined with oxygen—let
the oxygen enter by one passage, and the alcohol by another,
and let them meet in a common passage, just as the air in
the lungs meets the food from the stomach—so let them
meet and unite, and form acid). Let the size and number
of plates to the battery, and the amount of alcohol, be limit-
ed to generate an amount of etherium equal in force to 8 lbs.
per hour. Now let A use 6 and B 3 lbs. per hour. Let A go con-
tinually, and B only when there is a spare surplus. Have
the connection of A and B such, that B cannot start unless
there is an accumulated surplus of acid, equal to 16 lbs. of
force. Now set it in operation, and A will go continually,
but B will alternately rest (sleep) 8 hours and move 16.
A separate contrivance might be made to carry away the
oxide and replace it by an equivalent of metalic paste, thus
representing absorption and assimilation. Another contriv-
ance could, by means of several magnets influencing B
and causing it to increase or diminish its motion, represent
the influence of the external world upon man. Here, then,
we should have the representation of a galvanic animal,
28 SYNOPSIS.
without Consciousness ; one that sleeps regularly 8 hours
out of 24, because there is not etherium enough generated
to keep both its systems in operation a longer time.
35. The manner in which one man can induct or mes-
merise another, and the principles of Etherology involved,
may be well illustrated by the following statement
:
If two galvanic batteries are put in operation, and brought
into contact, they will not interfere with each other while
their isolation is unimpaired. But if they are brought into
communication and made to interfere, by the removal of
the isolation, then the more powerful will overcome and
neutralize the weaker, and send a current of etherium
around the nerves and through both batteries.
36. If two batteries of equal force are brought into com-
munication, the effect will depend upon the direction of the
two forces. If the direction is the same in both, no effect
is observed except an increased energy of the same mo-
tion, but if the direction is contrary they neutralize each
other. If the two forces are unequal, so that one (C) is
equal to ten, and another (D) to fifteen, and the directions are
contrary when they come into collision, the ten of (C) will
neutralise ten of(D), and the remaining five of (D) will produce
a current through both batteries with a force equal to five.
If the two forces are unequal, and both moving in the
same direction, when brought into communication the two
forces will unite and compromise so as to be equal, the
inferior gaining, and the superior losing in the same degree,
but the sum of the two forces remains the same. These
laws of motion, applicable to galvanic batteries, are doubt-
less equally operative in mesmerism and all other etherean
manifestations.
37. The knowledge of the laws which govern etherium
under all circumstances, and in all its manifestations, I shall
SYNOPSIS. 29
venture to denominate Etherology. The doctrines concern-
ing the agency of etherium in producing the motions
of body and mind, in the healthful and normal state, I shall
denominate Ethero-physiology. Etheropathy is a term
which I shall use to include all the phenomena which are
known to the public under the various names of Mesmer-
ism, Animal Magnetism, Neurology, Pathetism, Hypnotism,
Catalepsy, Somnambulism, Clairvoyance, &c. &c.
They are all produced by motions of etherium in a de-
ranged and abnormal state of the constitution.
38. The organs of man may be in a normal or in an abnormal
condition. When their operations are healthful and regular
they are said to be normal ; when deranged or irregular they
are said to be abnormal. This is more precise and correct
than to use the words natural and unnatural^ or healthful
and diseased, to express the same ideas.
39. Etheropathy is the result of an abnormal condition
of the constitution, a degenerated or morbid state which is
inconsistent with a constitution sound and perfect in all its
parts. Any rational explanation of Etheropathy or mes-
merism must be based upon this principle, that it is in every
case a departure from, and violation of, the ordinary laws
of man and the designs of the Creator. In this explanation
the distinction between the normal and abnormal conditions
must be borne in mind continually ; the two states must
not be confounded ; for, to explain any extraordinary
pathological phenomena, we must first know what is the
normal or physiological operation the derangement of
which constitutes the abnormal operation.
40. The diversion of etherium, from its normal and con-
stitutional avenues, is the cause of all the phenomena of
Etheropathy, or mesmerism ; in explaining each case,
therefore, we may consider,
30 SYNOPSIS.
First, From what point is the etherium normally-
evolved ?
Second, Through what avenues does it normally pass,
and what is the state of their isolation ?
Third, To what point does it normally tend ?
Fourth, With what force is it normally evolved ?
Fifth, With what counter force does it normally con-
tend?
Sixth, When diverted from its legitimate avenues by ab-
normal forces, what other avenues does it find ?
Seventh, What extraordinary effects are produced by the
derangement ?
41. Etheropathy may be divided into Spontaneous and
Artificial.
Spontaneous Etheropathy is of frequent occurrence in
medical practice, and many interesting cases of this kind
are recorded in medical books, in which somnambulism,
trance, clairvoyance, and, in short, all the mesmeric phe-
nomena, have been produced by disease, and without the
design of any human operator.
The case of Jane C. Rider, of Springfield, in Massachu-
setts, occurred while I was a temporary resident in that
place. She spontaneously manifested all the powers of
clairvoyance, in a community where no such thing had ever
been witnessed before, and where mesmerism was unknown.
There are many other similar cases which establish the
fact that no human operator is necessary, but that the sub-
ject contains within himself all the essential elements re-
quired to produce the result. Those, therefore, who
attribute so much potency to the will of the operator, or to
sympathy with him, are obviously mistaken, since the same
effects may be produced without any human operator. All
that is necessary is, that currents of etherium should enter
and pass through abnormal avenues ; but whether those cur-
SYNOPSIS. 31
rents proceed from a human operator, or from inanimate
objects, is evidently immaterial.
42. There are many instances of spontaneous Etheropa-
thy, in which the peculiar condition of the subject predis-
posed him to be thus affected, in such a way that he became
inducted when in the company of some person who was
utterly ignorant of his own power and agency in the opera-
tion. The extraordinary cases of witchcraft which occur-
red in Salem were undoubtedly of this character.
43. Many of the phenomena of Etheropathy have been
produced by design, after the spontaneous predisposition had
been discovered and manifested accidentally, though neither
the operator nor the subject was aware of the real agency
used. This was the case of some of the Salem witches,
and the priestesses of some of the ancient oracles ; it was true,
also, of some of the ancient modes of healing the sick; and,
perhaps, we may, under this enumeration, include the cases
(if they may be believed) of one animal charming another
by this agency.
44. In most instances among the ancients, when men
have been aware of the existence of this power, it has been
attributed to the agency of supernatural beings : sometimes
good, but generally evil, spirits have been charged with
being the principal operators. When men have been thus
spontaneously affected, to such a degree as to become in-
sane, they were often said to be " possessed of a devil ;"
and the process of curing them by exorcism, or the will and
influence and prayers of some powerful and good man, was
called M casting out devils."
45. Since the time of Van Helmont and Mesmer, the
operator and subject have both generally understood that a
32 SYNOPSIS.
natural and controlable agent was employed, though they
have not been able to explain its nature. It is from these
modern operators that it has received the names of Mesmer-
ism, Animal Magnetism, Neurology, and Pathetism. There
are many of these persons at present in this country, who
believe, though I think without reason, that there is some-
thing supernatural in many of the phenomena.
46. Artificial Etheropathy is caused by currents of
etherium being artificially and intentionally forced by the
operator to act in opposition to the normal currents of the
subject : this process has been called mesmerising, magne-
tising, willing, charming, &c. I call it inducting or ether-
ising.
47. The constitution of the organs of man is such as to
isolate them from the influence of external currents of
etherium, and to prevent impressions being made upon
them, excepting through certain avenues denominated
senses ; and even through these avenues the etherium can
only pass in a prescribed manner, which is different and
peculiar in each of the different senses. This isolation is
somewhat analogous to the isolation which is necessary in
galvanic and electric machinery.
Etheropathy is always in opposition to this organic isola-
tion, and can only be produced by an induction sufficiently
powerful to break through the barrier which was intended
by the Creator to prevent the internal organs and functions
from improper external influences.
48. Susceptibility to mesmeric induction depends upon
three causes.
First, The imperfect condition of that peculiar structure
of the organs which constitutes their isolation and protec-
tion from the influence of external currents of etherium.
SYNOPSIS. 33
Second, The imperfect manner in which the etherium is
evolved from the organs of the subject, especially from the
capillaries of minute blood vessels.
Third, The conformity of the subject, and the develop-
ment of the conforming social organs of the brain, particu-
larly the organ of Credenciveness.
49. One of the causes of susceptibility may exist in a
subject when the others do not, and some of the numberless
organs in the constitution may be in a susceptible condition
and others not. This enables us to understand why there
is such a variety among subjects that scarcely two can be
found who are affected alike. And when we consider that
the organs are, from various causes, in a different condition
at different times, we can perceive why subjects are more
susceptible at one time than at another, and why they ex-
hibit different results at different times.
50. The inducting power of the operator depends upon a
sound and vigorous body and mind, with a good develop-
ment of the governing organs, and good judgment. Some
have asserted that a full development of the organ of Con-
centrativeness is necessary ; but although concentrated
attention is useful, it is not necessary ; and, besides, I deny
that there is any especial organ of concentration. This
notion is exploded.
It requires no more exertion of the will nor concentrated
attention to induct a subject, than it does to do any thing
else ; and it is questionable whether it is more exhausting
than any other labor in which continued attention is re-
quired.
51. In explaining etherean or mesmeric induction I
compared the operator and subject to two galvanic batteries,
which, even though in contact, would not interfere with
each other's operations while perfectly isolated ; but in fact
34 SYNOPSIS.
each man is a compound galvanic battery. He is composed
of an immense number of galvanic batteries. Each organ of
man is strictly an independent galvanic battery. This being
so, each organ must be isolated from the others to prevent
interference and confusion in the operations of so many and
such complicated apparatuses. The importance of the
principle of isolation will now be appreciated.
52. Sometimes one organ of man breaks through the iso-
lating barriers, inducts other organs, and subjects them
unduly to its influence. Monomania is generally produced
in this manner, by one phreno-organ being excited to such
a degree as to overcome the isolating boundaries and in-
ducting and modifying the functions of the other organs in
an abnormal degree. Just as one man may induct another,
so may one organ induct another organ in the same man
;
but in order to do this, it must first overcome the isolation
by the intensity of its own operations.
53. An operator, when he attempts to induct a subject,
will, of course, be likely to induct first those organs which
are most susceptible ; that is, those organs that are least
isolated ; and as he proceeds he will induct others ; but it
seldom or never happens that he succeeds in inducting all
the voluntary organs, and he never succeeds in inducting the
involuntary.
54. The involuntary organs are so perfectly isolated as to
be very little affected ; though, in some extraordinary cases,
the motion of the heart has been temporarily suspended.
In most cases, the circulation is accelerated or retarded ;
but it is doubtful whether this is not an indirect effect, pro-
duced in consequence of the induction of the voluntary
organs.
55. The isolation being overcome by the operator, and
the subject being inducted, the effects produced are various.
SYNOPSIS. 35
The normal currents are accelerated or retarded ; the func-
tions excited to a wonderful degree, producing astonishing and
incredible effects ; or else are depressed, and almost, or even
quite, suspended. The reason of this difference is, that the
currents of the operator's etherium may unite with those of
the subject, and add to their intensity, power, and energy ;
(and if the currents of the operator are uncommonly vigor-
ous, while those of the subject are weak, the effect of the
induction may be such as to greatly invigorate the powers
of the subject, and rouse his nearly dormant energies to a
high degree;) or, on the other hand, the currents of etheri-
um from the operator may oppose the currents in the organs
of the subject, and neutralize their effects, so as to cause
sleep, paralysis, and insensibility.
56. There are certain organs of man which naturally
tend, and were designed, to make him conform to others,
and submit to their influence. As a general fact, the first
effects of induction are upon those conforming social organs,
to accelerate their action, and to cause them to act as auxil-
iaries in inducting the other susceptible organs. The con-
forming, social propensities, (Submissiveness, Kindness, Imi-
tativeness, and Credenciveness,) perform a part in producing
Etheropathic phenomena, which has never heretofore been
understood, even by phrenologians themselves. In truth,
they do not seem to have understood the real nature of these
important organs.
57. Among the conforming socials, Credenciveness is the
one which is most concerned and involved in producing
Etheropathic effects.
It is because this organ has been so little understood, that
experimenters have made so many ridiculous errors, while
they asserted and believed that they were making important
discoveries.
58. Not only has man certain organs which cause him
36 SYNOPSIS.
to be influenced by others, but there is a kind of influence,
or stimulus, by which those organs are specifically affected.
Every man has in his possession this stimulating influence,
by means of which to excite the conforming socials. The
specific stimulus which naturally influences Credenciveness,
is assertion ; and accordingly, when a subject is inducted, an
assertion has an influence upon him which is almost incredi-
ble. ,He is generally disposed to oblige, to submit, to imi-
tate, and sympathize ; and to believe anything, however ab-
surd, even against the evidence of his senses. Tell him
that he cannot move or speak, and he cannot ; tell him that
ice will burn him, and it will do so. The assertion will ex-
cite the organ of Credenciveness, and that will induct, or
aid in inducting, the other organs.
These experiments may be performed when the subject
is inducted in the lowest degree.
59. The tremulousness and twitchings of subjects, when
first affected by the process of induction, are caused by the
struggles of two opposing currents, one from the organs of
the subject, and the other from the operator ;
just as the
sails of a ship tremble when the wind changes.
60. Sympathy is when an active organ in the operator
communicates its own motions to the corresponding organ in
the subject, so as to make it act in a similar manner.
61. Will, in this science, is the voluntary effort of the
operator, which causes a motion of the etherium, and thus
produces an effect upon the subject,
62. Normal, or natural sleep, is caused by the currents of
etherium between the brain and the muscles being stopped
by the involuntary ganglionic influence.
63. Dreaming, or partial sleep, is caused by currents of
etherium passing in the usual way from some of the phre-
SYNOPSIS. 37
no-organs to Consciousness, while in others it is prevented
by sleep.
64. Somnambulism, or sleep walking, is the same as dream-
ing, with this addition—that the etherium which passes to
Consciousness continues onward to the muscles, (particularly
those of locomotion,) with force sufficient to cause them to
contract, and produce walking. This is often the result of
disease, and is sometimes, (as in the case of Jane Rider,)
accompanied with clairvoyance.
65. Etheropathic or Mesmeric Sleep is caused by the
etherium, on its way from external objects to Consciousness,
being obstructed by the counter currents of the operator
;
and thus consciousness is prevented, except at the pleasure
of the operator.
66. Paralysis may be partial or general. It is caused by
normal currents of etherium from Consciousness to the
muscles being diverted or obstructed.
67. Trance is paralysis accompanied with sensation and
sometimes with clairvoyance. It is a suspension of the
powers of voluntary motion, without a suspension of sensa-
sation.
68. Clairvoyance, or vicarious sensation, is caused by
currents of etherium forcing their way from external objects
to Consciousness, through extraordinary and vicarious
avenues, in opposition to the isolating preventives.
69. Sympathetic Clairvoyance is a perception by the sub-
ject of the state of the operators mind, caused by motions
of etherium communicated from the Consciousness of the
operator to the Consciousness of the subject.
70. The Transfer of communication and of power from one
operator to another is accomplished at the pleasure of the
38 SYNOPSIS.
first operator, and afterwards, at the pleasure of any other
person who has been put into communication with the sub-
ject. If the subject is sympathetically clairvoyant, the
transfer can be made by the mere will of the operator ; if
not, then it must be done by his language, or some sign
which the subject would understand in his ordinary condi-
tion. In the latter case, the will of the subject aids the
will of the operator, and the conforming organs of the sub-
ject act as auxiliaries to the will of the operator.
71. Induction is the communication of motion or influ-
ence from one thing to another by means of etherium.
72. Self-induction is the induction of organs which is
produced by other organs in the same individual. It is
when one organ inducts another in the self-same person.
This happens spontaneously in many cases of monomania,
but it is easily produced artificially, thus ;
—let the operator,
by will, overcome the isolation, and then, by assertion, excite
Credenciveness to an abnormal degree, and Credenciveness
will induct any part which the operator pleases, or even
any part which the subject believes or suspects that the
operator desires to induct. This principle of self-induction
has never before, to my knowledge, been announced.
73. Most of the pretended wonderful discoveries, pub-
lished under the names of neurology, phreno-mesmerism
and pathetism, have originated in the ignorance of the
operators concerning this important principle of self-induc-
tion, or rather of Credencive induction ; and while they
have supposed that the fingers of the operators communi-
cated excitement to the phreno-organs, it was in reality the
organ of Credenciveness in the subject himself which com-
municated the excitement to the other phreno-organs of his
own brain, and thus produced any effect, however ludi-
crous, which the honest but misguided operator expected,
and supposed to proceed from his fingers.
SECTION II,
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
It is extremely curious as well as instructive, to trace the
history and progress of the human mind in relation to ethe-
rium and its various effects and manifestations. The exist-
ence of light and heat, and their obvious emanation from
the sun and other bodies, naturally led philosophers to
inquire into their nature and laws ; but nothing definite was
discovered, more than every savage would naturally know
without investigation, until the inductive sciences com-
menced their triumphant career in the 16th century. Be-
fore this time the very existence of electricity, magnetism
and galvanism, was unknown. It is true that the fact of
the attraction of certain kinds of iron ore for small particles
of iron had been noticed. It had also been discovered that
a needle possessing the magnetic property, when left free
to move, pointed north and south ; but this did not neces-
sarily lead to the conclusion that an etherean fluid was
concerned in producing the phenomenon. " Thales, one of
the wisest of the ancient Greek sages, believed that the
loadstone had a soul, because it had the power to move
itself and other things." It is found, upon a careful reading
of ancient history, that most of the phenomena of etherium
which were observed, were ascribed to the agency of gods
and demons ; thunder was the voice of Jupiter, and the
dread lightning was his resistless bolt ; the aurora borealis
was construed into a terrible manifestation of the wrath of
40 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
an offended deity ; sometimes it was said to be a sword of
the color of blood, suspended over a doomed nation ; and,
again, it assumed to their terrified imaginations the form of
a destroying angel, threatening the earth with famine, pes-
tilence and sword.
The celebrated delphian oracle, doubtless, had its origin
in some circumstances connected with Etheropathy or mes-
merism ; for we are informed by historians that certain
females having drank from a spring, the water of which had
peculiar properties, they were immediately possessed with
a kind of hallucination, during which they manifested won-
derful powers of prophesy and gifts of far-sightedness.
The numbers that consulted them were so great that a
temple was built which became the object of universal
veneration ; kings and generals werejguided by its counsels,
and the fates of distant nations were decided within its
sacred portals. To one familiarly acquainted with the ex-
periments in Etheropathy, there can be no doubt that as far
as the principles of this far-famed temple possessed any ex-
traordinary knowledge or power, they were dependant upon
the same principle that is concerned in the modern experi-
ments in clairvoyance. It is questionable whether they
understood the nature of the agent which they employed.
The managers of the institution were, perhaps, themselves
sincere in the belief that they were aided by a supernatural
power, especially during the earliest and most successful
period of their authority. It is certain that the multitude
ascribed their knowledge to celestial inspiration, and paid
their homage and tribute to the shrine with profound adora-
tion. In every age and nation we can trace evidences of
the unknown power of etherium. Witchcraft and sorcery
and divination were undoubtedly different modi operandi
of this agent. We read in Genesis of the divining cup
being put into the sack of Benjamin. I do not know that
we have any precise information as to the manner in which
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 41
this cup was used by the Egyptians ; but if we may be
allowed to conjecture from the other practices of the Magi
of that land of mystery and magic, it is easy to refer it to
etherean principles. Their power of charming and sub-
duing serpents, and of deluding the senses of spectators, as
in the case recorded in Exodus of their turning rods into
serpents, can only be explained in this manner : and though
the superior power of Aaron in causing his rod to swallow
up all their rods, may be ascribed to miraculous aid, it can-
not be pretended that the power of the magicians was de-
rived from Divine assistance, when they were acting in op-
position to Aaron upon the same occasion.
Witchcraft can easily be explained upon the principles of
Etheropathy ; and all the effects produced by the witches
of ancient or modern times can be reproduced, on any
occasion, by an accomplished experimenter upon etherium.
The history of king Saul renders it probable that he was
highly susceptible to the etherean influence. The prophets
whom he met in one of his journeys, by means of music
and dancing, and by other means not mentioned, succeeded
in operating upon him so far as to make him beside him-
self; and the influence of David's harp, in driving away the
evil spirit that troubled him, was of the same character.
Who that compares the ancient seers with modern clairvoy-
ants, and possessors of second-sight, can doubt that they all
belong to the same class.
The practice of laying hands upon the sick to heal them,
referred to in the New TesXament, is precisely the ethero-
pathic practice.
The practice among some of the American Indians, when
the medicine man, or physician, performs certain fantastic
tricks and evolutions, to operate upon the imagination of
the patient, and then takes the medicine himself, and actu-
ally produces the same effect upon the patient as though
the patient himself took the medicine, may seem in-
3
42 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
credible ; but in some cases the same thing can be done by
ethereans, or mesmerizers ; and the same principle is in-
deed often brought into operation in their ordinary sympa-
thetic experiments. The practice of laying a piece of steel
under the pillow to prevent nightmare, though often treated
with contempt, is but an instance of etherean practice, by
those who are ignorant of the agency employed. It is
highly probable that the practice of finding springs of water
by the witch-hazel, which, though much ridiculed, is not-
withstanding very generally practiced, and believed in by
some intelligent men, may, in some instances, be success-
ful, in consequence of an etherean influence, the existence
of which has not been heretofore suspected.
Etherium, under various forms and in various modes,
has doubtless, in all times, excited the astonishment of men,
by producing phenomena which (though by the lights of
modern science easily explained, by being referred to elec-
tricity, magnetism and mesmerism,) were once utterly in-
explicable and mysterious. It is by no means surprising
that men ascribed them to supernatural agency ; nor is it
strange, that those men who had acquired some knowledge
of the arts and practices by which the phenomena could be
produced, were regarded with veneration, and were sup-
posed to be endowed with celestial wisdom, and favored
with especial aid from the dread powers of the invisible
world. It was quite natural for the Roman soldiers, when
they saw electric fire upon the points of their spears, during
a thunder-storm, to believe that the gods were giving them
the most unequivocal tokens of their approbation and de-
termination to assist them. If, in those times, a man be-
came acquainted with the method by which similar electric
phenomena could be at any time produced, he could easily
make this knowledge a means of establishing his authority
and influence as a favorite of the gods, who could, at his
pleasure, " call spirits from the vasty deep."
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 43
I have no doubt that, in most cases, the priests and pro-
phets and seers and soothsayers of ancient times, were
themselves under a delusion, and actually believed them-
selves to possess the power which was ascribed to them by
the multitude ; though, from the promptings of natural de-
pravity, they may have added some impostures, to enable
them to render their profession more influential, as well as
more lucrative. If we admit that some of the ancient priests
understood the art of clairvoyance and mesmerism, though
much adulterated by superstition, we can readily understand
the immense effect upon their own minds which it would
produce, in swelling their self-importance, and inspiring
them with a high notion of the dignity, sacredness and ex-
clusiveness of their profession. We can also conceive that
the apparent miracles which they could perform by its
means, would give them unbounded sway over the minds
of the ignorant masses.
The effects produced in our own day, by the exciting
modes of religious worship, adopted by some sects, and
which are undoubtedly believed by them to be the work of
the Holy Ghost, can easily be imitated, and the same effects
produced by ethereans upon persons who are notoriously
irreligious. I refer to the merely corporeal effects, such as
" falling down in a trance," " losing their strength," " be-
coming insensible and rigid," &c. How far the effects upon
their minds can be supposed to be due to the same cause, or
how far it is the work of God, it is not becoming in me to
decide ; but I would respectfully suggest, that we may
often and easily be led into the most egregious errors, by
overlooking those laws of the human mind, through the
operation of which one person may be subjected to the
etherean influence of others.
The Science of Etherology is the legitimate offspring of
modern discoveries. Before the time of Galileo it was sup-
posed that the atmosphere of the earth was unlimited in ex-
44 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
tent, and the fact of the pressure of the atmosphere was un-
known. Before the discoveries of Priestly, Lavoisier and
Dr. Black, the compound nature of atmospheric air was not
suspected ; and the true theory of combustion and various
other phenomena produced by the combinations of oxygen,
were wrapped in profound mystery. Before the experi-
ments of Gray and Wheeler, the electric fluid was unknown ;
and when its existence was proved, it remained for Franklin
to show that it produces lightning ; for Davy, Oersted, Am-
pere, Seebeck, Faraday and others, to prove that it produces
chemical attraction and decomposition, Terrestrial Magnet-
ism, Galvanism, Voltaism and the Aurora Borealis.
The effects of galvanism upon the dead body could not
previously have been known, nor could we previously have
had satisfactory analogies, by which to explain the possibility
that the organic functions depend upon the same principle
as the electric and magnetic phenomena. In addition to
those already mentioned, the experiments and discoveries
of Mesmer and Peseygur, of Gall and Spurzheim, of Cuvier,
Bell, Marshall Hall, Reil, Humbolt, Ehrenburg, Young,
Arago and many others, have combined to shed light upon
this subject, as far as it relates to the nature of man and
animals, and all have tended to lead modern scientific minds
to the opinion that there is a subtile, all pervading and uni-
versal fluid, or etherium, which is concerned in producing
all phenomena ; in moving and connecting all material
bodies, from the vast planets, seen through the telescope,
to the most minute infusoria that can be perceived by the
microscope.
The ancient poets and philosophers frequently spoke of
the ether, but they evidently referred to the atmosphere,
which, before the sixteenth century, was supposed to be
illimitable ; or, if by ether they meant anything else, it was
certainly nothing analogous to the etherium which produces
light, magnetism, &c. This is evident, from the fact, that
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 45
they called it the blue ether, and supposed that it produced
the blue color of the sky. We must remember also, that
they were utterly ignorant of electricity and galvanism, of
chemistry, and of the laws of gravitation ;
their ideas,
therefore, concerning the nature of etherium were neces-
sarily vague and superstitious.
Van Helmont, a German philosopher, born in 1577,* was —
>
* The following extract is from the History of Mesmerism in the
Mesmeric Magazine.
" Among the Oriental Asiatics, mesmerism seems never to have
been totally forgotten, and even yet there lingers among them a faint
and dubious perception of its existence and use.
" The Jesuit missionaries relate that in the empire of China, mes-
merism has been practiced for many centuries, but they communi-
cate no particulars of the mode or of the extent of its employment.
" It is a fact, long and well known in India,that many of the fanatic devo-
tees with whom that country abounds, are accustomed to obtain what
they consider an ecstatic communion with the Deity, by fixing them-
selves in a particular position, and steadfastly gazing at the end of the
nose. They assert that if they persevere for a considerable time in
this singular practice, they will suddenly perceive a beatific light, and
be favored with direct and colloquial intercourse with God, though
their conversation is tacit and inaudible to any but themselves. Mes-
merisees, when clairvoyant, almost invariably mention a bright light,
which they perceive before their foreheads, just above the eyebrows:
and a very singular discovery made in the year 1841 by a surgeon
named Braid, of Manchester, England, affords convincing proof of the
possibility of somnambulism being voluntarily induced, even in the
manner of the Hindoo fakirs.
" This man found that by making a person in a sitting posture gaze
steadfastly upon an object situated at an angle of forty-five degrees
above the common axis of vision, congestion of the nerves and vessels
of the eye was produced, which extended to the brain and threw the
subject into the mesmeric condition, so far at least that total insensi-
bility to external impressions was induced. We have repeatedly tried
this experiment with perfect success, but could never cause clairvoy-
ance in this manner, except in our habitual mesmerisees.
" In Europe, however, after the overthrow of the Western Empire,
we perceive but few traces of mesmerism, until the dawn of the new
civilization in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. Two or three
remaikable cases seem nevertheless to have occurred during the dark
ages, some of which fell under the observation of the learned and
pious St. Augustine, who in his '
City of God' mentions a man who
could perspire when he wished, and also a priest who, whenever he
pleased, could throw himself into a peculiar kind of trance, during
which he was as insensible as a corpse.
"The famous Arabian philosopher and physician, Ebn-Sina or Avi
46 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
the first to advance distinctly the ideas, and introduce the
practice, the discovery of which has since been attributed
to Mesmer. He taught that there is a universal fluid
cenna, who lived in the tenth and eleventh centuries, relates the case
of a man who could at pleasure, by an exertion of his will, paralyze
his whole frame, or throw it into what we should now term a mes-
meric condition.
" Jerome Cardan, of the sixteenth century, a man of genius and dis-
crimination, and one of the first scholars of his day, states of himself
that he possessed a capacity of abandoning his body in a sort of ecstacy
whenever he pleased. He felt in these cases a sort of splitting of the
heart, as if his soul was about to withdraw, the sensation spreading
over his whole frame, like the opening of a door for the dismissal of
its guest. His apprehension was that he was out of his body, and
that by an energetic exertion he still retained a small hold of his cor-
poreal figure. He also could see, when he pleased, whatever he
desired to see, not through the force of imagination, but with his
material organs: he saw groves, animals and orbs, as he willed.
When he was a child he saw these things as they occurred, without
any previous volition or anticipation that such a thing was about to
happen. But after he had arrived at years of maturity he saw them
only when he desired, and such things as he desired. These images
were in perpetual succession one after another.
" It is, however, in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, that we
find the existence of mesmerism first acknowledged and distinctly
announced. Many writers, the most eminent of whom were Kircher,
Pomponatius, Van Helmont, and Sir Kenelm Digby, assumed the
existence of an universal magnetic power, by which they attempted to
explain the dependence and reciprocal action of bodies, in general,
upon each other, and, in particular, the phenomena of the vital or-
ganization. They also broadly and distinctly maintained the propo-
sition that the will or imagination of man, when energetically called
into action, is capable of producing certain perceptible effects upon
the organism of other living beings, even at a considerable distance.
"Pomponatius, a native of Mantua, and professor of Philosophy at the
celebrated university of Padua, assumes it as a fact generally acknow-
ledged, that there are men endowed with the faculty of curing certain
diseases, by means of an effluence or emanation, which the force of
their imagination directs towards the patient. ' When those,' says he
1
who are endowed with this faculty, operate by employing the force
of the imagination and the will, this force affects their blood and their
spirits, which produce the intended effects by means of an evaporation
thrown outwards.' He afterwards observes, that it is by no means
inconceivable, that health may be communicated to a sick person, by
the force of the imagination and the will so directed; and he compares
this susceptibility of health to the opposite susceptibility of the infec-
tion of disease.
" In another passage, he enumerates the conditions of the exercise of
this faculty, in nearly the same terms as are employed by the modern
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 47
which pervades all bodies, and by means of which certainV^
effects can be produced by the will of one person upon the
mesmerisers ; and he adds, that the confidence of the patient contri-
butes to the efficacy of the remedy. ' It is necessary,' says he, * that
he who exercises this sort of enchantment should have great faith t
a
strong imagination, and a firm desire to cure the sickness. But these
dispositions are not to be found equally in all men.'
" Henry Cornelius Agrippa, the famous astrologer, chemist, and
magician, asserted that it is possible for a man to communicate his
thoughts to another, even at a great distance, and appeals to his own
experience, as well as to that of others, for the truth of the fact.
" But there is no author of that age,—observes Colquhoun, in treating
of this subject, who appears to have so fully anticipated the modern
discovery of mesmerism, as Van Helmont.
" He defines mesmerism, or as he styles it, magnetism, to be ' that
occult influence, which bodies exert over each other at a distance,
whether by attraction or by impulsion.' The medium or vehicle of
this influence, he designates by the name of the magnate magnum,
which he seems to consider as an universal fluid pervading all nature.
It is not, he continues, a corporeal substance, capable of being con-
densed, measured, or weighed ; but an ethereal, pure, vital spirit, or
essence, which penetrates all bodies, and acts upon the mass of the
universe. With regard to the human frame, he conceives that the
seat of the magnetic force is in the blood, and that it is called forth
and directed by the will. Van Helmont occasionally gives to this
influence the epithets of ecstatic and magical, using the latter word in
its more favorable signification.
" In the same treatise, the author proceeds to say that there resides in
man a peculiar energy, which enables him by the mere force of his
will and imagination to act at a distance, and to impress a virtue, to
exercise an influence upon a very remote object. This power, he
admits, is incomprehensible ; but there are other powers and agents
in nature, which we are equally incapable of comprehending—such as
the power of volition over the corporeal organs. The union of the
soul and the body, too, and their reciprocal influence upon each other,
depend upon causes which we are unable to discover.
" But one of the most remarkable passages in this treatise is that in
which the author explains the conditions necessary to the success of
the magnetic treatment. ' We have already observed,' says he,
c
that all magical power lies dormant in man, and that it requires to
be excited. This is invariably the case, if the subject upon whom we
wish to operate, is not in the most favorable disposition ;
if his inter-
nal imagination does not abandon itself entirely to the impression
which we wish to produce upon him ; or if he towards whom the
action is directed, possesses more energy than he who operates. But
when the patient is well disposed, or weak, he readily yields to the
magnetic influence of him who operates upon him through the medium
of bis imagination. In order to ope tc r werfully, *t is necessary to
employ seme medium; but this medium is nothing unless accom-
panied by the internal action.' All this—at least in its essential
48 HISTORY OF ETHEBIUM.
organization and mind of another ; but he combined this
doctrine with others relating to magic, alchemy and astro-
points—is quite coincident with the modern doctrine of animal mag-
netism, introduced by Mesmer, and established by the numerous ex-
periments and observations of his successors.
" Van Helmont, and indeed most of the early writers on the subject
of magnetism, ascribed avast and mysterious influence to the power of
energetic and concentrated volition.
" The will, according to Van Helmont, is the first of powers. It was
by the will of the Almighty tbat the universe was created ; it was by
volition that motion was originally impressed upon all objects; it is
the will existing in man, which is the principle of all his actions.
Volition belongs to all spiritual beings ; it is the more active and
powerful in them, in proportion as they are disengaged from matter
;
and the energy with which it operates without the assistance of
organs, is the essential characteristic of pure spirits. He also remarks
that those who exert the magnetic influence, operate more or less
powerfully, according to the energy of the will ; and that the effects
of their operation may be impeded by the resistance of that which is
operated upon. A magnetiser will operate with much more certainty
upon weak than upon robust beings ; because the power of operating
effectually by means of volition has its limits, and he who possesses
energy of mind can easily resist it.
"It is quite evident, indeed, from the whole works of Van Helmont,
that he was not only perfectly well acquainted with the magnetic in-
fluence, but that he made use of it professionally, and placed great
confidence in its effects. He himself, indeed, informs us, that when
the plague was raging in the town of Brussels, he thought it his duty
to seize the opportunity of instructing himself and of being useful to
others. He accordingly offered his services to attend the sick ; neither
the fatigue, nor the fear of infection, could abate his zeal, or extin-
guish his charity. '
Perceiving,' says he, '
that most of the physi-
cians deserted the sick, I devoted myself to their service, and Gcd
preserved me from the contagion. All, when they saw me, seemed to
be refreshed with hope and joy ; whilst I, supported by faith and con-
fidence, persuaded myself that God would at length confer upon me
the science of an adept.'
" There appeared in England, about the middle of the seventeenth
century, three persons, who seem to have possessed considerable mes-
meric power, which they employed, however, only for the cure of
diseases. These were a gardener named Levret, an Irish gentleman,
Valentine Greatrakes, and a Dr. Streper. Their method of cure was
altogether by manipulations, and their success was wonderful, and
d almost incredible.
" In the course of the next century, there appeared in Germany, a
still more extraordinary character than either of the three who per-
formed such wonders in England. This was John Joseph Gassner,
who was born at Bratz, in Suabia, in 1727, and who became a Catholic
priest. His curative powers were most amazing, especially in spas-
modic and epileptic complaints, and were authenticated in the most
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 49
logy, which had the effect to bring both himself and his
opinions, on this subject, into discredit with philosophers.
The following' brief glance at the history of mesmerism,
is principally derived from the recent work of Lang.
About the middle of the seventeenth century, there ap-
peared in England a certain gardener of the name of Levret,
an Irish gentleman, Valentine Greatrakes, and a Dr. Streper,
who professed to cure various diseases by stroking with the
hand. The cures performed in this manner by Greatrakes
are authenticated by the Lord Bishop of Derry, and many
other highly respectable individuals. The Royal Society
accounted for them by the supposition, that there existed a
" sanative contagion in Mr. Greatrakes' body, wT
hich had
an antipathy to some particular diseases, and not to others."
At a still later period, Gassner, a Catholic minister, a
native of Suabia, having taken up a notion that many dis-
eases arose from demoniacal possession, and could be cured
by exorcism, performed a number of astonishing cures,
especially among patients affected with spasmodic and
epileptic complaints. Many other instances of a like cha-
racter might be adduced, exhibiting traces of this curious
agency ; but we come, without farther preface, to the
individual who, in modern times, was the reviver of the
science to which his name has been given.
Frederick Anthony Mesmer was born in Switzerland, on
the 23d day of May, 1734. He studied medicine at Vienna,
where he obtained the degree of doctor, and settled as a
physician. A marriage with a lady of fortune soon after-
wards raised him above some of the cares which attach to
the young medical practitioner.
ample and irrefragable manner, by persons of high rank and irre-
proachable character.
" But it was reserved for Mesmer, one of the most remarkable men on
record, to deduce and form from these scattered facts and instances,
and from his own personal experience, the rudiments of that mighty
and marvellous science which now bears his name, and will perpetuate
his remembrance to the latest ages."
3*
50 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
From an early age, Mesmer is said to have manifested
a love of the marvellous ; and, in the year 1776, he pub-
lished a dissertation, On the Influence of the Planets upon
the Human Body. He assumed, that the influence operated
by electricity ; but finding that agent inadequate to the
solution of all the phenomena, he afterwards abandoned it
for magnetism. In 1773, upon the suggestion of Maximilian
Hell, professor of astronomy at Vienna, he resorted to the
use of the magnet, which he applied in the cure of various
diseases. Ultimately he discovered that the magnetic rods
employed by him were powerless, and that the healing
power, whatever it might be, was resident in himself. The
rods were accordingly abandoned, the effects being pro-
duced by certain passes.
Mesmer now began to assume a mysterious demeanor
;
and >
in no small degree through his own folly, so great a
prejudice was created against him, that in 1777 he departed
from Vienna, and early in the following year made his ap-
pearance in Paris. There, besides making a convert of
Dr. D'Eslon, he performed many remarkable cures in the
class of distinguished persons, and his fame accordingly
spread with great rapidity throughout the gay circles of that
city. The members of the medical profession, however, set
themselves in resolute opposition to Mesmer, and for a time
he retired to Spa, but afterwards, upon the persuasion of his
friends, returned to Paris.
A negotiation was attempted for the purchase of Mesmer's
secret by the French Government ; but this having failed,
the sale was carried on to private individuals at the rate of
one hundred louis a head. It was a condition of each sale
that secrecy should be maintained ; but this was broken
through, and the knowledge of the facts propagated by
Mesmer was soon widely diffused, with the disadvantage of
having many corruptions grafted upon them according to
the fancies of various individuals. The practice of Mesmer
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 51
savored in itself sufficiently of quackery, and some of his
disciples seem to have followed it up in a still more foolish
manner.
In 1784, the French Government issued a royal mandate
to the medical faculty of Paris, requiring them to investi-
gate the facts and the pretensions of the new doctrine. The
bulk of the members of this famous commission had pre-
judged the question, and, like too many of the medical men
of our own time, were resolved that they would not be con-
vinced. The name of the celebrated Franklin is attached
to the unfavorable Report that was issued, although it
should not have been there, as he is said to have been indis-
posed at the time, and to have given little attention to what
took place.
There was one commissioner who refused to concur in
the Report adopted by his brethren. Jussieu, a physician
of the highest eminence, who devoted great attention to
the investigation, published a special report of his own, pre-
senting an entirely different view, and conveying an infi-
nitely more favorable impression of the subject.
The blow struck by the French Commissioners did not
entirely answer the expected purpose. The question still
continued to excite a high degree of interest in that coun-
try, but the breaking out of the Revolution, and the wars
which followed that event, turned the public attention in
other directions.
The Marquis de Puysegur, one of the most intelligent of
Mesmer's disciples, to whom the science is under deep ob-
ligations, was the first to describe the state of somnambu-
lism.* The Marquis, both at Paris and on his estate in the
country, devoted himself with the utmost zeal to the pro-
pagation of the science ; and the system, as improved by
him, was introduced into Germany in 1787, through the m-
• I believe that he was the first who discovered clairvoyance.
52 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
strumentality of the celebrated physiognomist Lavatcr.
Journals devoted to animal magnetism were established in
France and Germany ; and in those countries, as well as in
Switzerland, the magnetic treatment has prevailed, more or
less, for the last fifty years.
Meanwhile, Mesmer had retired to his native country,
Switzerland, and his death took place on the 5th of March,
1815, at Meersburg, on the Lake of Constance. His last
years were devoted to the practice of the magnetic treat-
ment or the benefit of the poor, and he exhibited his own
belief in its efficacy as a remedy, by submitting to the treat-
ment in his last illness, and is said to have experienced
from it great relief.
Many men of the highest eminence on the Continent of
Europe, despite the din of war around them, devoted a con-
siderable degree of attention to Mesmerism, and in progress
of time it began to be heard of in the works of the great
German physiologists, Sprengel, Reil, Authenrieth and
others—names as well known on the Continent as those of
Harvey or Hunter in Britain. In 1817, the practice of Mes-
merism was by law ordered to be confined to the medical
profession in the Prussian dominions; and in 1818 the Aca-
demy of Sciences at Berlin offered a prize of 3340 francs
for the best treatise on Mesmerism. In Denmark, and even
in Russia, about the same period, the subject was brought
under investigation, and in the latter country a committee,
appointed by the Emperor, declared it to be a most import-
ant agent. These things could not go on without challeng-
ing investigation in France, from whence the first report of
a commission had emanated.
In 1825, M. Foissac proposed to the Academie de Medi-
cine, to produce a somnambulist, in whom the members of
that body might witness the extraordinary phenomena
caused by animal magnetism. The proposition gave rise to
violent debates, which terminated in the appointment of a
HISTORY OFETHERIUM. 53
committee, to determine as to whether the Academie ought
or ought not to take cognizance in the subject. The com-
mittee decided in the affirmative, upon the following
grounds : First, that the judgment pronounced by the
Academie in 1784, was not founded upon reasons sufficient-
ly conclusive ; and secondly, that the magnetism now pro-
posed for examination, differed from the Mesmerian mag-
netism, inasmuch as its effects were producible without
actual contact between the magnetiser and the magnetised,
and without the emplo}~ment of metallic rods, magnetic
chairs, and other similar means. After strong opposition, a
commission was appointed, composed of twelve members,
to examine into and report upon the experiments about to
be made. The commission pursued its investigations till
1831, when it presented a report to the Academie, contain-
ing an exposition of its labors, with the inferences deduced
from them, arranged under the following heads :
1. The effects ascribed to magnetism are null in most
healthy individuals, and in some invalids.
2. They are but little apparent in others.
3. They are often produced by ennui, monotony, and the
power of the imagination.
4. Lastly, they are developed independently of these
causes, very probably by the influence of magnetism alone.
The somnambulist proposed to be presented to the Acade-
mie by M. Foissac, who, he stated, would remove all doubt
as to the power of magnetism, was the first person sub-
jected to its operation before the commission. It appears,
however, that the experiment was a failure, for the com-
missioners say, in the report
—
" We must confess, our inexperience, our impatience, our mis-
trust, perhaps too strongly manifested, did not permit us to observe
any of the phenomena of somnambulism."
It is unnecessary that I should follow the report in the
54 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
enumeration of instances illustrative of the two first heads.
The following cases will serve to illustrate the third posi-
tion ; it being sufficient to place the persons in situations in
which they believed themselves magnetised, to produce
similar phenomena :*
" Mad'lle. L. was magnetised eleven times at the Hotel Dieu,
within the period of a month. At the fourth sitting, somnolency,
convulsive movements of the neck and face, with other symptoms,
occurred. At the eleventh sitting, the magnetiser placed himself
behind her chair, without making any signs, and without the in-
tention of magnetising ; nevertheless, she experienced more decided
effects than on the preceding trials.
" An hysterical girl was magnetised several times ; at each time
there occurred somnolency with strong convulsive actions. Being
placed one day in the same chair, in the same place, at the same
hour, and in the presence of the same persons, the accustomed phe-
nomena presented themselves, though the magnetiser was absent."
A like experiment was made on an epileptic patient with
a similar result.
The following is an abstract of some of the cases, from
which the commissioners inferred, that the phenomena was
produced by the action of magnetism alone :
A child aged twenty-eight months, subject to epileptic
attacks, was magnetised by M. Foissac. Almost immedi-
ately after the beginning of the passes, it rubbed its eyes,
leaned its head upon one of the cushions, yawned, was agi-
tated, scratched its head and ears, and seemed to struggle
against the tendency to sleep.
A deaf and dumb boy, aged eighteen years, subject to epi-
leptic attacks from a long period, was magnetised fifteen
times ; the epileptic attacks were suspended, and only re-
turned after an interval of eight months, which was unpre-
cedented in the history of his disease ; he experienced be-
* See my remarks on Credencive Induction.
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 55
sides, during the experiments, heaviness of the eye-lids,
general torpor, the inclination to sleep, and sometimes ver-
tigo.
M. Itard, one of the members of the commission, who
had previously been magnetised without any effect resulting,
again subjected himself to the experiment, after nearly a
year's interval, and experienced languor without sleep, a
marked excitation of the nerves of the face, convulsive
movements in the nose, the muscles of the face and jaws,
an accumulation in the mouth of saliva, having a metallic
taste—a sensation similar to that which he had experienced
from galvanism. This phenomenon recurred on subsequent
occasions, when he was magnetised ; the two first sittings
produced headache, which lasted several hours, at the same
time his habitual pains had diminished.
After stating some instances of insensibility, during som-
nambulism, to noises, pinching, pricking, ammonia applied
to the nose, &c, the commissioners relate two or three cases
where the somnambulists failed to execute the orders trans-
mitted to them mentally by the magnetiser, of which I shall
merely quote one.
In Madame C, residing in the same house as the mag-
netiser, it was proposed to exhibit the mental power pos-
sessed by the magnetiser over the magnetised ; as also the
communication of thoughts between them, without the in-
tervention of speech or gesture. The proposal was accept-
ed by the commissioners, who repaired to the house, and
when the somnambulist was produced, gave directions in
writing to the magnetiser, indicating the actions which they
desired to see performed, which were to be signified men-
tally to the somnambulist. Thus she is first ordered to go
and sit on a stool before the piano ; she rises and looks at
the clock ; on being apprised of her mistake, she goes into
another room, and on being again informed of her error she
sits down. She is next desired to raise her hand at the
56 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
same time as her magnetiser, and to lower it at the same
time ; the two hands are raised simultaneously, but that
of Madame C. is not raised at the same time as the mag-
netised. The back of a watch is presented to her ; she
mistakes the hour and the number of hands ; she is told to
rub her forehead, but she merely extends her hands.
The result of this and one or two other cases, rendered
the commissioners somewhat suspicious of a previous under-
standing between the magnetisers and the somnambulists.
M. Dupotet offered to remove their doubts, and engaged
to produce at will, and out of the sphere of the sight of
those whom he would throw into somnambulism, convulsive
movements in any part of their body, by the mere action of
pointing towards the part which the commissioners should
indicate. A man who had already been magnetised several
times, was consequently thrown into somnambulism, and
after some trials upon his obedience, M. Dupotet announced
that the commissioners might produce the promised effects.
M. Marc, one of them, accordingly placed himself behind
the somnambulist, and made a sign to M. Dupotet, to pro-
duce movements in the forefinger of the right hand, and af-
terwards in the toes ; the somnambulist performed some
movements, but not in the parts indicated. Similar move-
ments, though more feeble, were subsequently made with-
out magnetization, and the experiment was declared to be
inconclusive.
Mademoiselle Lemaitre, who has been already mentioned,
when it was a question of the imagination in the production
of magnetic phenomena, also presented this convulsive mo-
bility, but these movements, resembling in their rapidity
those which are felt on the approach of an electrical point,
sometimes took place in a part to which the fingers were
pointed, and sometimes also without the pointing of the
fingers. They also occurred at a longer or shorter period
after the attempt which was made to produce them ; some-
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 57
times this phenomenon was exhibited at one sitting, and did
not appear at all in another ; the approach of the fingers to
one part was likewise sometimes followed by convulsive
movements in a different part.
It was chiefly upon M. Petit, a teacher, aged thirty-two,
that the convulsive movements have been determined with
the greatest degree of precision, by the approach of the
mao;netiser's fins;ers.
" M. Dupotet, presented him to the commissioners, the 10th of
August, 1826, stating to them that the man was very susceptible
to somnambulic phenomena, and that while in this state, he, M. Du-
potet, could at his pleasure, and without expressing it by word,
produce in the parts indicated by the commissioners, evident con-
vulsive movements, by the mere approach of his fingers to the
parts. He was quickly somnambulised, and it was then that the
commissioners, to obviate any suspicion of a concerted plan, placed
in the hands of M. Dupotet, a note composed in silence, and at the
moment in which they had stated, in writing, the parts which they
wished to see convulsed.
" Following these instructions, he first directed his hand towards
the right wrist, which became affected with convulsions : he after-
wards placed himself behind the patient, and directed his finger in
the first instance towards the left thigh, then towards the left elbow,
and then to the head. These three parts were almost immediately
seized with convulsive movements. M. Dupotet next directed his
left leg towards that of the patient, who became agitated in such a
manner as to be near falling ; M. Dupotet then brought his foot
near the right elbow of M. Petit, and the elbow became agitated ;
he then carried his foot towards the left elbow and hand, and very
strong convulsive actions took place in the whole limb. One of
the commissioners, M. Marc, with the intention of obviating the
slightest possibility of trickery, placed a bandage over the patient's
eyes, and the preceding experiments were repeated, with but slight
difference in the result. Upoathe combined and instantaneous in-
dication of several of us, M. Dupotet directed his finger towards
the patient's left hand ; on its approach both hands were agitated.
We desired that the action should be directed at the same time to
58 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
both the inferior extremities ; at first the fingers were approached
without any results; soon, however, the somnambulist moved his
hands, retreated, and then agitated his feet. MM. Thillaye and
Marc directed their fingers towards various parts of the body, and
provoked some convulsive movements. Thus M. Petit always had,
on the approach of the fingers, convulsive movements, whether his
eyes were bandaged or not, and these movements were more de-
cided when a metallic rod, such as a key, or the branches of spec-
tacles, was directed towards the parts. In conclusion, the commis-
sion, although witnesses of several cases in which this contractile
faculty has been excited by the approach of the fingers, or of me-
tallic rods, require further facts, in order to appreciate the phenom-
enon, of the constancy and value of which they do not consider
themselves sufficiently enlightened to pronounce an opinion."
M. Petit likewise presented the phenomena of clairvoy-
ance, or sight with the closed eyelids, though he was wrong
in some of his statements. Thus, M. Dupotet had an-
nounced to the commissioners that the somnambulist would
be able to pick out from twelve coins, that which he had
held in his hand. A five-franc piece was selected, and
mixed with twelve others, but M. Petit took the wrong
one ; a watch, of which the direction of the hands was al-
tered from the actual hour of the day, was presented to
him, and he was twice wrong in mentioning the time which
they indicated. This was accounted for by saying that M.
Petit had lost some of his lucidity since he had not been so
frequently magnetized ; nevertheless, in the same sitting,
the reporter to the commission played a game of piquet
with him, and often tried to deceive him by announcing a
card of one color for another, but in vain ; M. Petit played
correctly, and knew the color of his adversary's cards. Ev-
ery time, however, that a substance, as a sheet of paper or
parchment was placed between the eyes and the object to
be distinguished, M. Petit could not distinguish it.
" If these trials had been the only ones by which we had sought
to recognize clairvoyance, we should have concluded that the som-
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 59
nambulist did not possess it; but in the following experiment this
faculty appeared in full evidence, and this time the success com-
pletely verified that which M. Dupotet had announced to us.
" After the patient had been thrown into somnambulism, and
had exhibited some of the phenomena of muscular contraction and.
agitation on the approach of the fingers or foot of the magnetizer,
a bandage was placed over the eyes. Having declared, however,
that he could not see with the bandage, it was removed, but then
constant attention was directed to the eyelids to verify that they
were exactly closed. For this purpose a light was held at a little
distance from the eyes during the experiment, and several persons
were watching him closely ; one of them, M. Ribes, even remark-
ed, that the edges of the eyelids were so close, that the lashes of
the upper and lower lids crossed each other. The same gentle-
man, a member of the Academie, then presented a catalogue which
he took out of his pocket ; the somnambulist, after some efforts
which appeared to fatigue him, read very distinctly the words—
Lavater, il est bien difficile de connoitre les hommes—these last
words were in very small type. He next recognized a passport
and a porte-d'armes, which is very like a passport : after a few in-
stants' attention he read, De par le roi and Porte d'armes. An open
letter was next shown him : he said he could not read it, as he did
not understand English—the letter was in fact written in English.
He afterwards distinguished the representation of a dog before an
altar, on a snufT-box; and on a closed letter being presented to him,
though he could not read it, he pointed out the direction of the
lines of writing. On subsequently playing piquet, he handled the
cards with the greatest exactness, and, without ever being mis-
taken, notwithstanding attempts to deceive him were frequently
made, by withdrawing or changing the cards ; he counted with
surprising facility the number of points marked upon his adver-
sary's marking-card.
" Whilst M. Petit was playing a second game, M. Dupotet, at
the suggestion of M. Ribes, directed from behind, his hand towards
the patient's elbow, and the contraction formerly observed recurred.
Then, on the proposition of M. Bourdois, he magnetised him from
behind, at the distance of a foot, with the intention of awakening
him. The ardor with which the somnambulist was playing, op-
60 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
posed this action, which seemed to annoy and vex him. He seve-
ral times carried his hand to the back of his head, as if he were
suffering ; he afterwards fell into a stupor, which seemed to be a
light natural sleep, and on some one speaking to him in this state,
he waked up with a start.
" Shortly afterwards he was again magnetised, and M. Dupotet,
desirous that not the shadow of a doubt should remain on the na-
ture of a physical action, exerted at will on the somnambulist, pro-
posed to put on him as many bandages as the commissioners
pleased, and then to act upon him. In consequence, his face down
to the nostrils was covered with several handkerchiefs ; the cavity
formed by the prominence of the nose being filled up with gloves,
and a black handkerchief covered the whole, falling down to his
neck like a veil. The experiments were then repeated in various
ways, and the same kind of movements manifested themselves in
the parts towards which the hand or the foot were directed. After
a game at ecarte, which the somnambulist pursued with such ardor
that he remained insensible to the action of M. Bourdois, who
vainly endeavored to act upon him from behind, he rose, walked
across the room, putting aside the chairs which were in his way,
and went to sit down at a distance from the experimenters, when
he was awakened by M. Dupotet. When awakened, he said that
he retained no recollection of what had occurred during his som-
nambulism."
I will now refer to the. cases in which the commissioners
witnessed, besides clairvoyance, the proofs of intuition, and
of a foresight very remarkable, as regards themselves and
others.
Paul Villagrand, a law student, was attacked, 25th De-
cember, 1825, by apoplexy, with paralysis of the whole
left side of the body ; after seventeen months of varied
treatment pursued at home, and in a Maison de Sante, in
the course of which period he had two fresh attacks, he
was admitted, 8th April, 1827, in the hospital La Charite.
Although he had experienced marked relief from the means
employed before his admission, he still \\ alked with crutches
without being able to lean upon the left leg. The arm of
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 61
the same side could execute some under movements, but
he could not raise it to the head. He could hardly see
with trie right eye, and his hearing was very bad on both
sides. In this state he was placed under the care of M.
Fouquier. During five months, he was bled, purged, or
blistered, from time to time, and took the extract of nux
vomica. The left arm acquired a little strength, the head-
aches to which he was subject subsided, and his condition
remained stationary till 29th August, 1S27, on which day
he was magnetised by M. Poissac, according to the order
and under the direction of M. Fouquier. In this first sit-
ting he experienced a sensation of general heat and mus-
cular twitchings. He was astonished at the inclination to
sleep, rubbed his eyes and made useless efforts to keep
them open. From this period the deafness and the head-
ache disappeared. It was only at the ninth sitting that the
sleep became complete ; on the tenth he answered by in-
articulate signs to questions which were addressed to him.
On a subsequent occasion he announced that he could only
be cured with the assistance of magnetism, and prescribed
himself sinapisms, baths of Bareges, and the continued use
of pills of extract of nux vomica. The 25th September the
commission repaired to La Charite, caused the patient to
undress, and verified the circumstance that the left inferior
extremity was much thinner than the other ; that the left
hand pressed much less strongly than the right ; that the
tongue, when, protruded from the mouth, was drawn to-
wards the right commissure. On being magnetised, he
again prescribed for himself, and added, that by pursuing
the treatment for three days, and on being magnetised, he
would be able, on awaking, to walk without crutches. The
treatment was accordingly followed up, and on the stated
day, the 25th, the commissioners arrived at the hospital.
Paul entered the room supporting himself on his crutches,
and was magnetised as usual. When in somnambulism, he
62 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
stated that he would return to his bed without crutches or
support. When awakened, he asked for his crutches, but
was answered that he did not require them,—in fact, he
arose, supported himself upon the paralysed leg, passed
through the crowd, which followed him, descended the
steps of the conference-room, crossed the court-yard to the
foot of the staircase, which, after resting himself a minute
or two, he ascended with the assistance of an arm and the
bannister, went to his bed without support, to the great
astonishment of all the patients, who till then had only
seen him fixed to his bed. From that day he did not re-
sume his crutches.
When again magnetised, on the 11th October, he an-
nounced that he should be completely cured if a seton were
established below the region of the heart. On being
pricked with a pin on the eyelids, he evinced no sign of
sensibility.
The magnetic experiments in the hospital were at this
period put a stop to by the administrative council. The
patient, however, said he could not sufficiently praise the
efficacy of magnetism, and was consequently removed from
the hospital by M. Foissac, who continued the treatment in
a private apartment.
On the 29th of the same month, the commissioners went
to his apartment to ascertain the progress of the cure,
which they found materially advanced. On being somnam-
bulised, he showed increased strength, raised M. Thillaye
from the ground, and on being told to descend the staircase,
abruptly quitted his chair, took the arm of M. Foissac,
whom he left at the door, descended and ascended the steps
two at a time with a convulsive rapidity, which, however,
became moderated when he was told to ascend only one at
a time. When awakened, he lost his surprising increase of
strength : his gait was slow but assured ; he could not sup-
port the weight of his body upon the left leg, and he tried
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 63
in vain to raise M. Foissac. It must be observed, that two
days before this last experiment he had lost two pounds
and a half of blood, had had blisters on his legs, a seton in
the nape, and another on the breast.
" You will consequently perceive with us, gentlemen," continues
the Report, " what a prodigious increase of power magnetism had
developed in the diseased organs, since the whole strength of the
body had been more than quadrupled
" Paul afterwards renounced all medical treatment, desiring that
the remedial means should be restricted to magnetism ; and towards
the end of the year, as he expressed the desire to be put and kept
in somnambulism during eight days, in order that his cure should be
complete on the 1st of January, he was magnetised on the 25th of
December, and from that day remained in somnambulism till the
.
1st of January. During this time he was awakened for twelve
hours at unequal intervals ; and in these brief moments of the
waking state, he was suffered to believe that he had only been
asleep for a few hours. During the whole time of his sleep the
digestive functions were performed with increased activity.
" He had beena sleep three days, when, still in somnambulism,
accompanied by M. Foissac, he set off on foot, the 28th of Decem-
ber, from the Rue Mondovi, and went to find M. Fouquier at the
hospital, where he arrived at nine o'clock. He there recognized
the patients near whom he had slept before leaving, as also the
pupils on service, and he read with closed eyes, while a finger was
held on each eyelid, some words which M. Fouquier showed him.
"The 12th of January, the commissioners once more assembled
at the house of M. Foissac, where were present M. E. De Las
Cases, deputy ; the Count De Rumigny, aide-de-camp to the king
;
and M. Segalas, member of the Academy. M. Foissac stated to
us, that when Paul was in the state of somnambulism, a finger might
be held on each of his closed eyes, and that notwithstanding the
complete occlusion of the lids, he would distinguish the color of
cards, would read the title of a book, and some lines in any part
which might be opened. After a couple of minutes of magnetic
gestures, Paul is asleep. The eyelids being held closed constantly
and alternately by MM. Fouquier, Itard, Marc and the reporter ; a
new pack of cards is brought, and the stamped envelope of the
64 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
government torn off; the cards are shuffled, and Paul recognizes,
easily and successively, the king of spades, the ace of clubs, queen
of spades, nine of clubs, seven of diamonds, queen of diamonds,
and eight of diamonds."
He also reads lines from a History of France, which the
reporter had brought with him, as likewise a paper on
which two words had been written. In all these experi-
ments the fingers were applied on the whole of the commis-
sure of the eyes, pressing the lid from above downwards,
and the commissioners remarked that the globe of the eye
had been in a constant movement of rotation, and seemed
to direct itself towards the object submitted to vision.
Analogous effects were repeated on subsequent occasions,
and the commissioners remarked that
—
" The conclusions to be drawn, from this long and curious case
are. easy ; they flow naturally from the simple exposition of the
facts which we have related, and we enumerate them in the fol-
lowing manner :
—1 st. A patient whom a rational medication by
one of the first practitioners of the capital was not able to cure of
paralysis, finds his cure in the employment of magnetism, and in
the exactness with which the treatment is pursued, which he pre-
scribes for himself while in somnambulism. 2d. In this state his
strength is notably increased. 3rd. He gives us the most undenia-
ble proof that he reads with the eyes closed. 4th. He foresees the
period of his cure, and is cured at the time which he announced."
The case of another patient, a journeyman hatter, aged
twenty, born of an epileptic mother, and subject to fits of
epilepsy five or six times a week, for ten years, is next
given in the report. This individual predicted, while in
somnambulism, the periods of his attacks, and when he
would be cured ; the former predictions were verified, but
before the term which he had fixed for his cure arrived he
was knocked down by a cabriolet and killed. The com-
missioners observe upon this case,
—
« We see in this instance, a young man, subject, during ten
HISTORY OFETHERIUM. 65
years, to attacks of epilepsy, for which he had been successively
treated at two hospitals, and exempted from military service.
^Magnetism acts upon him, although he is completely ignorant of
'what is done to him : he becomes a somnambulist. The symptoms
of his disease are ameliorated, the attacks diminish in frequency,
his headaches and oppression disappear beneath the influence of
magnetism ; he prescribes himself a treatment appropriated to the
nature of his disease, and from which he promises himself a cure.
Being magnetised without his knowing it, and from afar, he tails
into somnambulism, and is awakened from it with the same quick-
ness as when the magnetiser is near him. Lastly, he indicates,
with a rare precision, one and two months before-hand, the day
and hour at which he is to have an attack of epilepsy ; neverthe-
less, although endowed with a foresight for attacks at so distant a
-period, as well as for those which are never to take place, he does
iiot foresee that in two days he will meet with a fatal accident."
On this last circumstance the commissioners remark, that
the previsions of the patient relate only to his attacks, that
they are reduced to the consciousness of the organic modi-
fications which prepare themselves and happen to him, as
the necessary result of interior functions ; that these pre-
visions, though more extended, are similar to those of cer-
tain epileptics, who know from several precursory symp-
toms that they will have an attack. They continue
—
a Let us add, that his prevision is not absolute ; that it is condi-
tional ; since, when foretelling an attack, he stated that it would not
take place if he were magnetised ; and, in fact, it does not take
place, it is altogether organic—internal. Thus we can conceive
why he did not foresee an event altogether external, viz : that chance
should lea'd him in the way of a fiery horse, and that, in attempt-
ing to stop it, he should receive a mortal wound."
In the next case, the somnambulist, a female, besides the
ordinary phenomena of somnambulism, exhibits that of
ascertaining the symptoms of persons presented to her.
One of these was M. Marc, one of the commissioners ; an-
other was a dropsical young woman, with some peculiari-
4
66 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
ties, which were indicated by the somnambulist, on touch-
ing her, with tolerable precision :
" It results from these observations," says the report, " 1st. That
while in the state of somnambulism, Mademoiselle C. has pointed
out the diseases of three persons with whom she was placed in
relation {communication). 2d. That the declaration of the one,
the examination which was made of the other, after thrice tapping,
and the autopsic examination of the third, were found to accord
with what the somnambulist had advanced. 3d. That the differ-
ent modes of treatment which she prescribed are not beyond the
circle of remedies which she might know, nor beyond that of the
order of things which she might reasonably recommend ; and 4th.
That she applied them with a kind of discernment."
The report terminates by saying, " The commission has reported
with impartiality that which it had seen with distrust; it has ex-
posed methodically that which it has observed under different cir-
cumstances, and which it has followed up with an attention as
close as continued. It has the consciousness that the statements
which it presents to you are the faithful expression of that which
it has observed. The obstacles which it has met with are known
to you ; they are partly the cause of the delay which has occurred
in presenting the report, although it has long been in possession
of the materials. We are, however, far from excusing ourselves,
or from complaining of this delay, since it gives to our observa-
tions a character of maturity and reserve which should lead you
to confide in the facts which we have related, without the charge
of prepossession and enthusiasm, with which you might have re-
proached us if we had only recently collected them. We add, that
we are far from thinking that we have seen all that is to be seen,
and we do not pretend to lead you to admit as an axiom, that there
is nothing positive in magnetism beyond what we mention in our
report. Far from placing limits to this part of physiological sci-
ence, we entertain, on the contrary, the hope that a new field is
opened to it ; and, warranting our own observations, presenting-
them with confidence to those who, after us, Avill occupy them-
selves with magnetism, we restrict ourselves to drawing the fol-
lowing conclusions, which are the necessary consequence of the
facts, the totality of which constitutes our report.
HISTORY OF ETHERITJM. 67
" CONCLUSIONS.
« 1. Contact of the thumbs or the hands, frictions or certain ges-
tures termed passes made at a little distance from the body, are the
means employed to place in relation, or, in other words, to trans-
mit the action from the magnetiser to the magnetised.
" 2. The actions, which are external and visible, are not always
necessary, since on many occasions the will, the fixed look of the
magnetiser, have sufficed to produce magnetic phenomena, even
when unknown to the magnetised.
" 3. Magnetism has acted on persons of different sex and age.
" 4. Magnetism does not generally act upon healthy persons,
nor does it act upon all invalids.
" 5. Whilst persons are being magnetised, insignificant and
transient effects sometimes occur, which, we do not ascribe to
magnetism alone, but which may be accounted for without the in-
tervention of a particular agent, viz. by hope or fear, expectation
from a something new and unknown, the ennui resulting from the
monotony of the gestures, the silence and repose observed in the
experiments : lastly, by the imagination, which exercises so pow-
erful an influence over some minds.
" 6. A certain number of the effects observed have appeared to
us to result from magnetism alone, and were not reproduced with-
out it. These are well authenticated physiological and therapeuti-
cal phenomena.
" 7. The real effects produced by magnetism are very varied ; it
agitates some, calms others, it usually accelerates the respiration
and circulation, causes transient convulsive movements similar to
electric shocks, a lassitude and torpor more or less profound, som-
nolency, and, in a small number of instances, what the magnetisers
term somnambulism.
" 8. The existence of a special character proper to make known
in all cases the reality of the state of somnambulism, has not been
proved.
" 9. It may, however, be inferred with certainty that this state
exists, when it gives rise to the development of new faculties
which have been designated by the name of clairvoyance, intuition,
internal prevision ; or when it produces great changes in the phy-
siological state, as insensibility, a sudden and considerable increase
68 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
of strength, and when this state cannot be referred to another
cause.
" 10. As among the effects ascribed to somnambulism there are
some which may be simulated, so may somnambulism itself be
simulated, and furnish charlatanism with means of deception.
"11. Sleep, produced more or less speedily, and established in a
degree more or less profound, is a real, but not a constant, effect of
magnetism.
" 12. It has been demonstrated to us, that sleep may be produced
under circumstances in which the magnetised have not been able
to perceive, and have been ignorant of, the means employed to oc-
casion it.
" 13. When a person has been already magnetised, it is not
always necessary to have recourse to contact, or to the passes, in
order to magnetise afresh. The look of the magnetiser, his will
alone, has often the same influence. In this case, one cannot only
act upon the magnetised, but throw him completely into somnam-
bulism, and awaken him from this state without his being aware
of it, out of his sight, at a certain distance, and through closed
doors.
" 14. There usually take place changes more or less remarkable
in the perceptions and the faculties of individuals in whom som-
nambulism is produced by magnetism.
"15. We have not seen any person fall into somnambulism on
being magnetised for the first time. It has sometimes been not
until the eighth or tenth sitting that somnambulism has become
manifest.
" 16. We have constantly seen ordinary sleep, which is the re-
pose of the organs of the senses, of the intellectual faculties and
voluntary movements, precede and terminate the state of somnam-
bulism.
" 17. When awakened, somnambulists declare that they do not
,
recollect any of the circumstances of the state of somnambulism.*
"18. We have seen two somnambulists distinguish with closed
eyes the objects placed before them ; they have designated, with-
out touching them, the color and name of cards ; they have read
* They will recollect, if requested to do so before they are
awakened.
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 69
words written, or lines from a book. This phenomenon has oc-
curred even when the eyelids were kept closed by the ringers.
"19. "We have met with two somnambulists, with the faculty
of foreseeing acts of the organism, more or less distinct, more or
less complicated.
" 20. We have only met with one somnambulist who could in-
dicate the symptoms of the disease of three persons with whom she
was placed in relation. We had, however, made researches on a
considerable number.
" 21. In order to determine with justness the relation of magne-
tism with therapeutics,* the effects must have been observed on a
great number of individuals, and experiments should have been
made for a long period and daily on the same diseases. This not
having been done, the commission must restrict itself to saying that
it has seen too few cases to be able to pronounce an opinion on
this point.
" 22. Some of the patients magnetised have derived no advan-
tage, others have experienced more or less marked benefit ; viz
:
one patient, the relief of habitual pains ; another, the return of
strength ; a third, a suspension of several months of epileptic at-
tacks ; and a fourth, the complete cure of serious and long-stand-
ing paralysis.
" 23. Considered as an agent of physiological phenomena, or as
a therapeutical means, magnetism ought to find a place within the
sphere of medical knowledge, and consequently only medical prac-
titioners ought to employ it, or to superintend its employment, as
is practiced in the countries of the north.
" 24. The commission could not verify, because it had no op-
portunity, the other faculties which magnetism had stated to exist
in somnambulists. But it has collected, and communicates to the
Academie, facts sufficiently important to induce it to think thatthe
Academie ought to encourage researches on magnetism as a very
curious branch of psychology and natural history.
" Certainly we dare not flatter ourselves that we shall make you
share entirely our conviction of the reality of the phenomena which
we have observed, and which you have neither seen, nor followed,
nor studied with, or in opposition to us. We do not, therefore,
* The cure of diseases,
70 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM.
exact from you a blind belief in all which we have reported. We
conceive that a great part of the facts are so extraordinary, that
you cannot grant it to us : perhaps we ourselves should have re-
fused you our belief, if, changing places, you had come to announce
them before this tribunal to us, who, like you at present, had seen
nothing, observed nothing, studied nothing, followed nothing of
them.
" We only require that you judge us as we should have judged
you, that is to say, that you remain perfectly convinced that
neither the love of the wonderful, nor the desire of celebrity, nor
any interest whatever, has influenced us in our labors. We were
animated by motives more elevated, more worthy of you—by the
love of science, and by the wish to justify the hopes which the
Academie had conceived of our zeal and devotedness.
" (Signed) Bourdois de la Motte, President
;
FoUQUIER, GlJENEAU DE MUSST,
GlJERSENT ITARD, LEROUX, MaRC,
Thillaye, Husson, Reporter."
Various theories have been from time to time promul-
gated in explanation of the extraordinary phenomena of
mesmerism. It was assumed by Mesmer that there was a
reciprocal influence continually subsisting between the hea-
venly bodies, the earth and animated nature, through the
medium of a certain very subtile fluid pervading the whole
universe, and capable of receiving, propagating and com-
municating every impulse of motion.
" The properties of matter, and of organised bodies," says Mes-
mer, " depend upon this operative principle. The animal body ex-
periences the alternative effects of this agent, which, by insinuating
itself into the substance of the nerves, affects them immediately.
The human body exhibits properties analogous to those of the
magnet, such as polarity and inclination. The property of the
animal body, w^hich renders it susceptible of this influence, occa-
sioned its denomination of Animal Magnetism."
Mr. Colquhoun, after remarking that the profound and
interesting researches of those eminent physiologists, Reil,
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 71
Authenreith, and Humboldt, have gone far, not only to de-
monstrate the existence of a nervous circulation, but even
to render probable the external expansion of this circulating
fluid, goes on to say,
—
" Were we, then, to admit the existence of this nervous fluid, of
its sensible atmosphere, and its analogy in other respects to elec-
tricity, it does not seem to be a very violent or unphilosophical
hypothesis to presume that, in certain circumstances, and under
certain conditions, it may be capable of being directed outwards,
by the volition of one individual, with such energy as to produce
a peculiar effect upon the organization of another. This hypothe-'
sis, too, appears to be supported by the fact, that individuals pos-
sessing sound health and great nervous energy, operate, in gene-
ral, most effectually in the magnetic treatment ; and that weak and
diseased persons are most susceptible of the magnetic influence*
and manifest the most extraordinary phenomena.* Almost all the
practitioners of Animal Magnetism, indeed, seem to agree in this,
that the magnetic treatment operates principally, if not entirely,
upon the nervous system, and particularly upon those nerves which
are situated in the abdominal region."
The decision of the French Commissioners of 1784,
which is generally supposed to have been utterly hostile to
mesmerism, was in reality principally directed against Mes-
mer's theory of a fluid. The facts, or at least a numerous
portion of them, were admitted, the theory being the main
point of attack. The commissioners tell us
—
" That which we have learned, or at least that which has been
'proved to us, in a clear and satisfactory manner, by our inquiry
into the phenomena of mesmerism, is, that man can act upon man
at all times, and almost at will, by striking his imagination ; that
signs and gestures the most simple may produce the most power-
ful effects ; that the action of man upon the imagination may be
reduced to an art, and conducted after a certain method, when ex-
ercised upon patients who have faith in the proceedings."
* 1 have frequently succeeded with persons of great strength and
vigor.
72 HISTORY OF ETHERIUM,
The French Commissioners explained the whole pheno-
mena by attributing them to the power of imagination.*
1
The celebrated Cuvier, who fully admits the truth of mes-
merism, writes on this point, as quoted by Dr. Elliotson in
his Human Physiology,
—
" We must confess that it is very difficult, in the experiments
which have for their object the action which the nervous systems
of two different individuals can exercise one upon another, to dis-
tinguish the effects of the imagination of the individual upon whom
the experiment is tried, from the physical result produced by the
person who acts for him. The effects, however, on persons igno-
rant of the agency, and upon individuals whom the operation itself
has deprived of consciousness, and those which animals present,
do not permit us to doubt that the proximity of two animated
bodies in certain positions, combined with certain movements, have
a real effect, independently of all participation of the fancy. It ap-
pears also clearly, that these effects arise from some nervous com-
munication which is established between their nervous systems.'*
Dr. Gall admits this power, and even does not reject the
hypothesis of its connection with a fluid.
" How often," says he, " in intoxication, hysterical and hypo-
chondriacal attacks, convulsions, fever, and insanity, under violent
emotions, after long fasting, through the effect of such poisons as
opium, hemlock or belladonna, are we not, in some measure,
transferred into perfectly different beings—for instance, into
poets, actors, &c.—just as in dreaming, the thoughts frequent-
ly have more delicacy, and the sensations are more acute, and
we can hear and answer ;
just as, in ordinary somnambulism,
we can rise, walk, see, touch with the hands, &c. ; so we allow
that similar phenomena may take place in artificial somnambulism,
and even in a higher degree. We acknowledge a fluid which
has an especial affinity with the nervous system, which can ema-
nate from an individual, pass into another, and accumulate, in vir-
tue of particular affinities, more in certain parts than in others.
• In another part of this work I have shown that even credencive
imagination is the result of physical causes.
HISTORY OF ETHERIUM. 73
We admit the existence of a fluid, the subtraction of which less-
ens, and the accumulation augments, the power of the nerves J
which places one part of the nervous system in repose, and height-
ens the activity of another, which, therefore, may produce an arti-
ficial somnambulism."
A rigid mathematician, La Place, observes, that
" Of all the instruments which we can employ, in order to enable
us to discover the imperceptible agents of nature, the nerves are
the most sensible, especially when their sensibility is exalted by
particular causes. It is by means of them that we have discovered
the slight electricity which is developed by the contact^ of two hete-
rogeneous metals. The'singular phenomena which result from the
external sensibility of the nerves in particular individuals, have
given birth to various opinions relative to the existence of a new
agent, which has been denominated animal magnetism, to the ac-
tion of the common magnetism, to the influence of the sun and
moon in some nervous affections ; and, lastly, to the impressions
which may be experienced from the proximity of the metals, or of
a running water. It is natural to suppose that the action of these
causes is very feeble, and that it may be easily disturbed by acci-
dental circumstances ; but, because, in some cases, it has not been
manifested at all, we are not to conclude it has no existence. We
are so far from being acquainted with all the agents of nature, and
their different modes of action, that it would be quite unphiJosophi-
cal to deny the existence of the phenomena, merely because they
are inexplicable in the present state of our knowledge."
Dr. Elliotson gives his own opinion in these words
:
" I have no hesitation in declaring my conviction that the facts
of mesmerism which I admit, because they are not contrary to es-
tablished morbid phenomena, result from a specific power. Even
they are sometimes unreal and feigned, and, when real, are some-
times the result of emotion—of imagination, to use common lan-
guage ; but, that they may be real and independent of all imagina-
\ tion, I have seen quite sufficient to convince me."
And after giving the particulars of some cases, be . thus
proceeds :
74 HISTORY OF ETHKRIUM.
" These are the phenomena which 1 have witnessed. To ascribe
them to emotion and fancy, to suppose collusion and deception,
would be absurd. They must be ascribed to a peculiar power ; to
a power acting, as I have no doubt, constantly in all living things,
vegetable and animal, but shown in a peculiar manner by the pro-
cesses of mesmerism."
The history of mesmerism in this country is essentially
similar to that in Europe, the principal difference being in
the names of the persons concerned. There has been the
same enthusiasm, credulity and superstition in its favor,
and the same haughty contempt or sneering skepticism
opposed to its pretensions ; while those best qualified for
its investigation, have deemed it unworthy of their serious
and continued attention.
SECTION III
NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
Having given a general and brief view of the history of
Etherium, as manifested in the form of Etheropathy or mes-
merism, it will be perceived that the doctrine of a univer-
sal fluid, as the agent concerned in producing the effects,
is supported by every distinguished operator and author
from the time of Van-Helmont to the present
.
The received Theory of Light is, that it depends upon
the undulations of a universal fluid, it is found impossible
otherwise to account for the facts which are known upon
the subject. The theory of Newton, that " Light is an
emanation of particles moving in straight lines with in-
credible velocity," is now exploded ; and the undulatory
theory of Huygens receives the sanction of modern phi-
losophers with very few exceptions. Light, is not, by the
greatest philosophers, now considered a material substance
in itself, but the vibration—the pulsation-—the undulation
—the peculiar wave-like motion of a material ocean of
universal etherium, just as sound is a motion of the air.
If you suspend a ball in the centre of a pool of water, and
then cause the ball to revolve so as to disturb the surface,
there will be a regular succession of waves which will, one
after the other reach the shore, and each make an impres-
sion upon the various objects which constitute the bounds
of the pool. In a similar manner, the sun, and every other
body from which light emanates, disturbs the ocean of
76 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
etherium, and produces a regular succession of waves,
which, on striking the optic nerve, communicates or in-
ducts its own peculiar motions, which motions are con-
tinued along the nerve to the phreno-organ of color, and
from that organ to the organ of Conciousness, thus pro-
ducing the conciousness which we acquire of the color of
different objects.
The different colors of objects are owing to the differ-
ent degrees of rapidity with which the waves of etherium
are propagated.
*
To prevent my unscientific readers from suspecting the
accuracy of these statements in regard to the received
theory of light, I will take the liberty to quote, from the
Lectures of Dr. Lardner, a few extracts relating to this
subject :
—
" The sun or a lamp acting on this asther, as it is called, puts it
into a state of pulsation ; the vibrations passing through it as those
of sound through the air. This pulsation is propagated to the
eye—reaches the retina, and puts that delicate membrane into a
state of tremulous motion which is the proximate cause of the im-
pression of light produced in the mind, It has been, moreover,
discovered by modern science, that the varying rapidity of these
vibrations is the cause of the difference in the colors of the spec-
trum : and what is still more remarkable, these vibrations have
been subjected to admeasurement. The various colors, blue, green,
&c, are nothing more than the effects of the different rates of pulsa-
tion imparted to the retina at the back of the eye-ball. A ray of
vibration enters the chamber of the eye through the pupil—a small
black spot in the centre of every eye, which is merely an aperture
through which a rod might be thrust—and causes the retina to vi-
brate at different rates. Science has discovered a method of com-
puting the rate at which this membrane pulsates ; and the number
of vibrations per second, when the sensation of redness is produced,
and so for the other colors. There would be nothing extraordi-
nary in this if this was any ordinary rate, as for instance, fifty
times in a second. But when I tell you that the number of vibra-
tions for one color is six hundred millions per second, seven hun-
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 77
dred millions each second for another, and that it is never less
than six nor more than nine hundred millions—when I tell you
that modern science has estimated this with close accuracy, you
will admit that it has accomplished what approaches very near to
the miraculous.
" These ohservations have been suggested by reference to the fal-
lacies into which we are led by the senses—and this is especially
applicable to the impressions of the different colors ; for the truth
is, that probably no two persons receive precisely the same im-
pression from the same color. There are numberless instances of
different impressions made upon different individuals, and nothing
is more common than an inability to distinguish between green and
blue. There are hundreds of persons who are never able to distin-
guish by their colors the cherries upon a tree from its leaves. The
celebrated Dugald Stewart, the well known chemist, Dalton,
and many other names, probably familiar to you all, might be men-
tioned of persons who were unable to distinguish the different
colors.
" By a little management we may be able to see bodies that do
not exist, and if we take the evidence of the senses on these points,
we should be led to believe in all sorts of spectres—the effect of
factitious vibrations produced by various causes. It would require
weeks to enumerate all the exhibitions of this deception ; but I
will mention one or two which may amuse, and at the same time
be instructive. "
Take a stick of red sealing wax and place it be-
tween the eye and a sheet of white paper ; after keeping the eye
steadily fixed upon the wax for a short time, look beside it, and
you will see a stick of blue wax as distinctly as you perceive the
real wax. In this way a succession of spectra may be produced.
Thus, by looking steadily at a red wafer for a short time, you will
be able to see beside it the ghost of a blue wafer ; and conversely
a blue wafer will give birth to the ghost of a red one—these two
colors being correlative to each other ; the retina, by the action of
the one, is put into a state of morbid vibration by which the effect
is produced. It is explicable by supposing that when the retina is
put into a state of pulsation, its motions continue for a short time,
just as a bell continues to ring for some seconds after it is struck.
" A wish has been expressed that I should explain more fully a
circumstance to which I alluded, briefly, in a former lecture ; name-
78 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
Iy—the effect produced on the retina of the eye by light. I ex-
plained the principle of light, as established by modern physics,
and the impression of the different colors upon the retina. The
physical principle on which light depends, was, for a long while,
and is still, in dispute among philosophers. One sect maintains
that light is a physical emanation from a luminous body, which
passes through space at the rate of 200,000 miles in a second,
reaches the eye, affects the retina, and produces an impression in
the mind. They hold that the white light of the sun is composed
of particles of different kinds, each producing the notion of a dif-
ferent color. This theory has been in dispute, and is found to be
insufficient for the explanation of certain phenomena, discovered
by modern science. This theory, however, was maintained by
Newton.
" Another theory, which is now generally received, is this : It
supposes that the whole universe is filled with a fluid called (Ether,
extremely subtile and elastic ; and that the luminous body produces
the effect, by imparting to this aether a certain pulsation, precisely
similar to that of sound, to which I have already referred. These
vibrations are supposed to be transmitted to the eye, with the ve-
locity already mentioned. Having entered the eye, it causes the
retina to vibrate, just as does the ear-drum in hearing, only these
pulsations are infinitely more rapid and delicate than those of sound.
This theory maintains that the colors of the spectrum,—as red,
orange, blue, &c,—are nothing more than the effects of greater or
less rapidity of vibration. If the retina pulsates at one rate, red
will be seen; if at another, blue, &c. This is the general outline
of the theory now generally received, in reference to the Corpuscu-
lar theory, which was held by Newton, but which is insufficient
to explain many of the phenomena observed, which the undulating
theory perfectly accounts for. What all these phenomena are, I
cannot explain in full; I will, however, mention one of them,
which is among the most remarkable.
" If two beams of light be admitted through small apertures in
a screen, and be made to cross each other, under certain circum-
stances, so that they fall upon the same point, you would naturally
expect that that point would be twice as light as if but one beam
fell upon it. According to the Corpuscular theory, which holds
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 79
light to be a material substance, the more of it there was accumu-
lated upon any point, the greater would be its illumination. But
it has been shown by modern science, that, instead of this result,
the two beams destroy each other, and a black spot is observed at
the point of intersection. If either of the beams be intercepted,
the spot becomes luminous ; but if both be allowed to fall upon it
together, it becomes black : either of the two will illuminate it
—
both together produce darkness. Now the Corpuscular theory
fails to account for this phenomenon ; but it is clearly explained by
the theory of an undulating medium. I can only give the expla-
nation in a general way, as thus : It is necessary to show that it is
possible for two systems of waves to obliterate each other, in
order to the explanation ; for if the presence of waves is essential
to illumination, any thing which destroys them must produce dark-
ness. Now if we suppose two systems of waves propagated along
the surface of a pond, we may easily imagine that the crests of one
system shall fall directly in the hollows of the other—and we
should thus have a surface perfectly smooth. This is what hap-
pens in this case. The two beams, every time they come together,
cause two systems of waves, of which the crests of one fall into the
hollows of the other, and the aether is in the same state as if there
were no waves at all. Of course, according to this theory, there
can be no light. But if we make the slightest change in the beams,
so that the crests of one system of waves shall be out of the hol-
lows, the spot will be instantly illuminated.
" Now it is known that light moves at the rate of 200,000 miles
in a second of time. During every second, then, a beam of light
200,000 miles in length enters the eye. And, as has just been
shown, for every inch of that beam there are 40,000 waves, or
pulsations, for red light, and a certain known number for the other
colors. And now can you not see how we are able to determine
the number of vibrations on the retina ? All that is necessary is,
to find how many inches there are in the beam which enters the
eye in a single second ; multiply that number by the number of
waves in a single inch for each color, and you have at once the
number of vibrations."
Heat. The received theory of Heat is, that it is but
80 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
another peculiar motion of the same etherial ocean, the un-
dulations of which produce light
Mr. Duncan Bradford in his " Wonders of the Heavens,"
says :—
" It has lately been discovered, that the rays of light, and the rays
of heat, or caloric, are distinct from each other; for it can be de-
monstrated that some rays from the sun produce heat which have
no power of communicating light or color. The greatest heat is
found in the red rays, the least in the violet rays ; and in a space
(in the solar spectrum) beyond the red rays, where there is no
light, the temperature is the greatest. The rays of the sun have
also been found to produce different chemical effects. The white
muriate of silver is blackened in the violet ray, in the space of
fifteen seconds, though the red ray will not produce the same
effect in less than twenty minutes. Phosphorus is kindled in the
vicinity of the red ray, and extinguished in the vicinity of the
viclet. The solar light, therefore, consists of three different orders
of rays, one producing color, a second producing heat, and a third
chemical effects.
" The sun's rays are the ultimate source of almost every motion
which takes place on the surface of the earth. By its heat are
produced all winds, and those disturbances in the electric equilib-
rium of the atmosphere which give rise to the phenomena of
terrestrial magnetism. By their vivifying action, vegetables are
elaborated from organic matter, and become, in their turn, the sup-
port of animals and of man, and the sources of these great de-
posits of dynamical efficiency which are laid up for human use in
our coal strata. By them the waters of the sea are made to cir-
culate in vapor through the air, and irrigate the land, producing
springs and rivers. By them are produced all disturbances of the
chemical equilibrium of the elements of nature, which, by a series
of compositions and decompositions, give rise to new products,
and originate a transfer of materials. Even the slow degradation
of the solid constituents of the surface in which its chief geological
changes consist, and their diffusion among the waters of the ocean
are entirely due to the abrasion of the winds and rains, and the
alternate action of the season. And when we consider the im-
mense transfer of matter so produced, the increase of pressure over
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 81
large spaces in the bed of the ocean, and the diminution over cor-
responding portions of the land, we are not at a loss to perceive
how the elastic power of subterranean fires, thus repressed on the
one hand, and relieved on the other, may break forth in points
where the resistance is barely adequate to their retention, and
thus bring the phenomena of even volcanic electricity under the
general law of solar influence. The great mystery, however, is
to conceive how so enormous a conflagration (if such it be) can be
kept up. Every discovery in chemical science leaves us com-
pletely at a loss, or rather seems to remove farther the prospect of
probable explanation.
M The opacity of the interior of the globe of the sun is no reason
why it may not act a part in the production or preservation of the
solar heat ; on the contrary, it appears highly probable and con-
sistent with the discoveries, that the dark solid nucleus of the sun
is the magazine from which its heat is discharged, while the lumi-
nous or phosphorescent mantle which the heat freely pervades is
the region where its light is generated. Herschel's own experi-
ments assure us, that invisible rays, which have the power of
heating, and which are totally distinct from those which produce
light, are actually emitted from the sun ; and that luminous rays,
incapable of producing heat, are discharged from the same source.
These facts, therefore, not only confirm the theory which we have
stated, but receive in return from that theory the most satisfactory
explanation. The invisible rays which pervade every part of the
solar spectrum formed by a prism, and which extend beyond its
red extremity are emitted from the opaque nucleus, and therefore
excite no sensation of light on the human retina; while the colored
rays, which form the spectrum itself, are discharged from the
luminous matter that encircles the solid nucleus, and are therefore
endowed with the properties of illumination. Hence it is easy to
assign the reason why the light and heat of the sun are apparently
always in a state of combination, and why the one emanation
cannot be obtained without the other. The heat projected from
the dark body, and the light emitted from the luminous atmos-
phere, are thrown off in lines diverging in every possible direction;
so that the two radiations must be uniformly intermingled, and, as
in a stream flowing from two contiguous sources, the heat must
always accompany its kindred element. We find the invisible
82 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
heat of the sun existing; separately from its light, and possessing a
degree of refrangibility less than the least refrangible rays of the
prismatic spectrum. Light has likewise been found separate from
heat, and though it may be imagined that this arises from the
extreme tenuity of the light, yet, when the light of the moon is
concentrated by powerful burning mirrors, we ought certainly to
have expected that the heat, if any did exist, would be appreciable
by delicate thermometers. Every attempt, however, to detect heat
in the rays of the moon has completely failed, and we are entitled
to presume that a greater proportion of heat than of light has been
absorbed by that luminary. If light and heat, then, be two differ-
ent substances, endowed with different chemical and physical pro-
perties, is it not unphilosophical to suppose that they are emitted
from the same source, when we have actually two different regions
in the sun, to which we can, with more propriety, refer their
origin ?"
These notions of Mr. Bradford are not inconsistent with
the idea that heat, though it may originate in a different part
of the sun, is but a different motion of the same substance as
light. That motion of etherium which constitutes heat,
may proceed from the internal parts of bodies, while that
motion which constitutes light may proceed from the sur-
face merely.
Prof. Faraday, in a lecture delivered at the Royal Insti-
tute, June 1st, 1844, makes the following interesting re-
marks, which forcibly illustrate the idea that the motions
of etherium may be modified to produce different kinds of
heat as well as different kinds of light, and different kinds
of electricity. He remarks, (I quote from The Civil En-
gineer and Architects Journal) :
" When light falls on a polished opaque substance, it is reflected
from it, or thrown off in an opposite direction, the angle of reflec-
tion being always equal to the angle at which it falls on the sur-
face. If the body is transparent, the greater part of the light passes
through it, and if the light falls angular on it, it is refracted, or
bent from its course, and when the transparent substance is prism-
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 83
shaped, the light is thrown completely in another direction. Such
substances as ice and glass allow light to pass through, and refract
iti but polished metals reflect, and do not allow it to pass. The
same facts have been observed with respect to heat, and although
it cannot be seen in its passage, its transfer can be proved. When
the hand is held towards a fire, a heat is felt, which is due to its
being radiated, or thrown equally, as from a centre, in all direc-
tions. The effects of radiated heat may be watched by using a
red-hot ball, which will be found to give off' heat equally in all di-
rections, and will readily light a piece of phosphorous placed at a
great distance below it. A flat mirror, held in the path of the rays
of heat, will reflect them, and the rays may thus be thrown on any
required spot. If, instead of one mirror, three hundred or four hun-
dred are employed, and so placed that the heat reflected from each
should fall on the same spot, the effect of course is greatly aug-
mented. A concave mirror may be considered as such an assem-
blage of myriads of flat mirrors, and its focus as the spot where
their reflected heat is accumulated. With two parabolic reflectors,
the effects of radiated and accumulated heat are very striking. A
red-hot ball placed in the focus of one will fire combustibles held
in the focus of the other, though they may be far apart, and ice
produces in a similar manner, cooling effects.
" The rays of heat and light are not hot, and it is an error in
thought and word to call them so. The rays of heat are hcaliiig
rays, but not hot rays. This is beautifully illustrated by the ex-
periments of Melloni, who found that various transparent sub-
stances allowed heat to pass through them in various proportions
;
that those bodies that allow it to pass freely through them do not
become heated, and that those that stop the rays become heated ex-
actly in that proportion. He placed a red-hot ball on a stand, and
the two substances he wished to compare on opposite sides of it,
and by a frame prevented any heat from passing excepting through
the two bodies : beyond these he placed two pieces of metal with
phosphorous on them, and by comparing the time it took to fire
the phosphorous, he learnt the comparative freedom with which
heat passed through the bodies experimented on. Through a piece
of rock salt the heat passed with facility, but through glass it
scarcely passed at all. Passing through the salt, it leaves it cold,
but being stopped by the glass it makes it hot, thereby proving
84 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
that when as rays it is not hot, hut only when stopped, and then
they lose their character as rays. In the same manner the rays
from a luminous body are not light, until stopped by a solid body.
If they were, the light from the sun should be seen passing through
space to the planets or to the moon, but they give no light until
stopped by them, and therefore are invisible.
"When reflectors are used with the sun's rays, of course, both
the light and heat are reflected. Wood or paper held in the focus"
of a large reflector, are immediately fired by the sun's heat. The
course of the rays traveling from the reflector to its focus, is made
beautifully evident by holding a smoking piece of paper under-
neath.
" The rays of heat passed through a lense, are conveyed in a
similar manner by refraction to a focus, but in this case the focus
is on the opposite side to the source of heat. With the action of a
burning-glass every one is familiar, but it will now be seen that
the property of refracting to a centre does not depend upon the na-
ture of the body, but upon its transparency and shape ; for ice, if
melted in a hot tin mould until it is lense-shaped, acts equally well
with glass. By it the sun's rays may be concentrated so as to burn
paper and other combustibles, and yet the ice does not become
melted. This could not be done with common heat, for instance,
that from a fire, as ice will not allow its rays to pass, and stopping
them, becomes melted. In Melloni's experiments on this subject
he found that there were different kinds of rays of heat, just the
same as there are different colored rays of light, and that these rays
were mixed in various proportions according to the source from
whence they emanated. Thus some will pass through ice and
salt, and not through glass. The rays of heat from the sun pass
through almost every substance, whilst those from a common fire
are stopped to a certain extent by almost every thing, and the sub-
stances themselves become heated. That no heat is produced until
the rays are stopped, is seen by passing the sun's rays concentrated
by a lense through a glass tube filled with ether, when no effect is
produced ; but put into it something which will stop the rays, such
as a piece of black paper, and the ether is seen to boil immediate-
ly. The great effects produced by concentrating the sun's rays
from a few feet on to one spot, give's a great idea of the immense
quantity of heat which is continually being poured on this earth,
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 85
and of the fearful effects were this heat withheld but for one sea-
son. These rays are not obstructed by the glass of the window,
but allow it to pass on to carpets, &c, and heat them, but were
they the same rays as from a fire, the effect would be very different.
" The reception and emission of heat, though depending princi-
pally on the nature of the body, is found to be very greatly influ-
enced by the state and texture of the surface. Of two radiating
bodies, for instance, tin canisters filled with hot water, one black-
ened or roughened on the surface will be found to get cold sooner
than that which is left bright, one appearing like a good conductor,
the other like a bad one, though the only difference is in the state
of the surface ; or the experiment may be varied by black-washing
or white-washing only one side of the vessel ; a thermometer will
then indicate more heat being given off from that side than from the
others. In the same way the reception of heat is affected by sur-
face, those absorbing the best which radiate the best. The appli-
cation of this principle to useful purposes is carried out to a great
extent ; for steam engines, and boilers, which are required to re-
tain the heat, are kept bright, whilst those from which the heat is
required to be delivered, as in warming buildings by hot water
pipes, the surface is kept rough. In domestic economy the china
teapot is now superseded by polished metal, which is found to
keep the infusion hotter, and a difference even would be found
whether a silver teapot were kept clean or dirty. Every substance
is continually radiating heat to any other body near it which is
colder than itself, and ice, even, will send out radiant heat to solid
carbonic acid. The emissive power is not always in proportion to
the amount of heat, for the flame of a candle, though consisting of
particles far hotter than a red-hot iron ball, does not radiate nearly
so much heat as the latter. The power of a bright reflective sur-
face to protect from radiant heat, is well shown by placing a slip
of gold leaf on a sheet of paper, and holding over it a red-hot ball
;
the uncovered paper is scorched, whilst the thin metal, itself an ex-
cellent conductor, entirely protects the paper below.
" It has, then, been shown that bodies differ in their power of
transmitting heat, some, like rock salt, transmitting it readily, or
being an easy diathermol body, whilst others, such as alum, trans-
mit it but slightly, and that the rays of heat differ, depending upon
the source from which they emanate, for the facility with which
86 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
they penetrate transparent media; thereby confirming the proba-
bility of the analogy that Melloni has drawn between the various
rays of light and those of heat."
Electricity is also explained by philosophers, on the
hypothesis of an universal fluid, which, when in equilibrium,
produces no phenomena ; but when the equilibrium is dis-
turbed, by friction of the glass cylinder of an electric ma-
chine, or by other means, certain electric phenomena follow.
Galvanic Electricity is that which is produced by
chemical action, and the apparatus commonly used is called
a Galvanic Battery. It is supposed that every chemical
change is accompanied with a movement of electricity ; and
a Galvanic Battery is so contrived, as to cause the electro-
chemical motion of etherium to take place in a circuit,
thus : Put into a glass vessel a piece of zinc and a piece of
copper, so placed as not to touch each other ;
pour some
water containing acid into the glass, so that the two metals
will be corroded, and there will immediately be a current of
electricity passing through the liquid from the zinc to the
copper. Now connect the copper with the zinc by means
of wire, and thus constitute a circuit, and there will be a
continual current from the zinc to the copper through the
water, and from the copper to the zinc through the wire.
This is a Galvanic Battery in its simplest form. Any metals
may be used, provided one corrodes more rapidly than the
other ; even two pieces of the same metal will answer, pro-
vided one piece is hammered and the other porous, so that
one shall be corroded more rapidly than the other.
There is an important distinction between the quantity
of electricity obtained, and its intensity. That which is ob-
tained from one pair of metallic plates, however large, is of
very low intensity, so that it is easily insulated ; and, how-
ever great the quantity may be, any number of wires may
lie side by side, with nothing but a coating of varnish be-
tween them, and each wire may convey a separate current,
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 87
while its nearest neighbor conveys an opposite current, with-
out any apparent interference.
But when there is a great number of plates, even if they
are small ones, the current acquires such intensity that it
becomes difficult to isolate it, so as to prevent it from being
communicated to surrounding bodies.
I am inclined to think, that the currents of human ethe-
rium are deficient, both in quantity and intensity, when com-
pared with that produced by the artificial apparatuses ; and
this is one reason why it does not overcome its. isolation
more frequently.
Thermo-Electricity is that which is brought into action
through the agency of heat. This mode of producing elec-
tric currents was discovered by Professor Seebeck, of Ber-
lin, in 1822. He discovered that if two different kinds of
metal are joined, and heated at the place of junction, a
current of electricity will flow from one to the other ; and
if the ends of the metals which are not joined are connected
by a wire, so as to constitute a circuit, a, current of electri-
city will pass around the circuit, just as it does around the
Galvanic Battery. The conclusion is, that any thing which
can disturb the equilibrium of the great mass of etherium,
produces phenomena ; and these phenomena have received
different names, according to the modes in which the equi-
librium has been disturbed.
Magnetism is but another mode in which currents of
electricity are produced.
Terrestrial Magnetism, which causes the compass needle
to point nearly north and south, is now found to be caused
by Thermo-Electric currents, produced by the heat of the
sun upon the continually revolving earth. The most power-
ful magnets are made by causing a current of electricity
to pass along a wire which is wound spirally around apiece
of iron. All the phenomena of magnetism are but modes
88 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
in which electricity is manifested ; and all the phenomena
of electricity can be produced by heat.
Gravitation has never been satisfactorily explained by
any hypothesis ; but the only attempts that have been made
to give even a conjectural explanation of it, have been based
upon the assumption of a universal fluid or etherium. The
following is Newton's language upon the subject
:
" Is not this medium (aether) much rarer within the dense
bodies of the sun, stars, planets and comets, than in the emp-
ty celestial spaces between them ? And in passing from them
to greater distances, does it not grow denser and denser per-
petually, and thereby cause the gravity of those great bodies
towards one another, and of their parts towards the bodies
;
every body endeavoring to recede from the denser parts of
the medium towards the rarer ?
w For if this medium be supposed to be rarer within the
sun's body than at its surface, and rarer there than at the
hundredth part of an inch from his body, and rarer there
than at the fiftieth part of an inch from his body, and rarer
there than at the orb of Saturn, I see no reason why the in-
crease of density should stop anywhere, and not rather be
continued through all distances from the sun to Saturn and
beyond.
" And though this increase of density may at great dis-
tances be exceeding slow ;
yet if the elastic force of this
medium be exceeding great, it may suffice to impel bodies
from the denser parts of the medium towards the rarer with
all that power which we call gravity.
" And that the elastic force of this medium is exceeding
great, may be gathered from the swiftness of its vibrations.
" Light moves from the sun to us in about seven or eight
minutes of time, which distance is about 70,000,000.
" As magnetism is stronger in small loadstones than in
great ones, in proportion to their bulk ; and gravity is stronger
on the surface of small planets than those of great ones,
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 89
in proportion to their bulk ; and small bodies are agitated
more by electric attraction than great ones ; so the small-
ness of the rays of light may contribute very much to the
power of the object by which they are refracted ; and if any
one should suppose that ether (like our air) may contain
particles which endeavor to recede from one another, (for I
do not know what ether is,) and that its particles are ex-
ceedingly smaller than those of air, or even than those of
light, the exceeding smallness of such particles ma}7
contri-
bute to the greatness of the force by which they recede
from one another, and thereby make that medium exceed-
ingly more rare and elastic than air, and of consequence ex-
ceedingly less able to resist the motions of projectiles, and
exceedingly mGre able to press upon gross bodies by en-
deavoring to expand therein."
Admitting the doctrine of a universal Etherium to explain
gravitation, (and I cannot see how it can be avoided, what-
ever hypothesis be adopted,) we are furnished with a power-
ful argument in favor of the most marvelous pretensions
of clairvoyance at a distance, and by this admission we are
estopped from denying the possibility of clairvoyance from
any want of a medium sufficiently potent, or subtile, or ex-
tensive, or rapid in its movements ; for the force of gravity
is transmitted from planet to planet with a degree of rapidity
which far surpasses all other motions with which we are
acquainted. In 1773, La Place " demonstrated that the at-
tractive force of gravity must be transmitted fifty million
times faster than light, which travels at the rate of two
hundred thousand miles in a second." If, in addition to this
fact, we consider that all bodies, however distant, or how-
ever solid, are reached and penetrated by gravitation—-that
no force can impede it, no isolation can exclude it, and no
other velocity can rival it, since it has been demonstrated by
the greatest mathematicians, to move as much faster than
lightning, as lightning moves faster than a snail—I say, con-
5
90 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
sideling all this, the marvels of clairvoyance sink into a
comparatively common and insignificant affair.
It seems to me much more reasonable to suppose that
there is but one universal Etherium, the different motions
and combinations of which, with other and grosser matter,
produce all the different phenomena of gravitation, heat,
electricity, light, animal motions, &c, than that there
are several independent and distinct universal fluids operat-
ing through the same space, at the same time, upon the same
bodies. It may be, that although there is but one Etherium,
that this one is compounded of different kinds of matter or
elements, each element possessing different properties pecu-
liar to itself, and that when the compound Etherium comes
into combination with some kinds of ponderable matter, it
becomes decomposed, one element producing one class of
effects, and another producing very different effects.
Again, it may be that the universal Etherium is simple
and uncompounded, but that, when it comes into contact
with the ponderable materials of the earth, or other planets,
it enters into combination with atoms of ponderable matter,
so exceedingly minute, that it is impossible, with our finite
powers of perception and invention, to detect them. By
entering into these combinations, it may produce different
classes of effects, which seem to proceed from different
fluids. By adopting this hypothesis, we can understand why
one modification of Etherium (light) will readily pass
through transparent substances, but not through those which
are opaque ; while another modification of Etherium (mag-
netism) will pass with equal facility through both; and
yet, by a certain process, electricity may be changed into
magnetism, or magnetism into electricity ; and both may be
made to produce light. We can also understand why elec-
tricity, which will not pass through glass, can be changed
to magnetism, or made to produce light, either of which
will pass through without difficulty. Again, light may be
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 91
made to produce magnetism, and heat to produce electricity
and magnetism, while they both in turn produce heat; and,
finally, chemical combinations produce heat, light, electrici-
ty, magnetism, galvanism, attraction, vegetation, digestion,
respiration, muscular motion and sensation, and numberless
other phenomena.
It is evident, from a review of all these facts, and many
others, with which we are furnished by natural science, that
we are at no loss for analogical proof of the reality of an
etherean agent in nature, capable of producing all the effects
ascribed to etheropathy or mesmerism.
The Rev. Mr. Townsend, in his elegant work, modestly
entitled, " Facts in Mesmerism,*' supports this doctrine with
his usual felicity of expression. The ideas, however, which
I have suggested in this work concerning credencive induc-
tion, do not seem to have occurred to him as a means of
accounting for what is commonly called " the effects of the
imagination." He also inclines to the opinion that there
may be several different kinds of fluid or Etherium, but he
argues with so much ability in favor of the propriety of ad-
mitting an etherial mesmeric agent, that perhaps I cannot
better please my readers than by a liberal adoption of his
lano;ua2;e.
" First, I affirm that, productive of the effects called mes-
meric, there is an action of matter as distinct and specific as
that of light, heat, electricity, or any other of the impon-
derable agents, as they are called ; that, when the mesmer-
izer influences his patient, he does this by a medium, either
known already in another guise, or altogether new to our
experience.
" What proofs, it will be asked, can I bring forward of this
assertion ? I answer, such proofs as are considered availa-
ble in all cases where an impalpable imponderable medium
is to be considered ; facts, namely, or certain appearances,
92 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
which, hearing a peculiar character, irresistibly suggest a
peculiar cause.
" Let us take only one of these.
" Standing at some yards distant from a person who is in
the mesmeric state (that persorf being perfectly stationary,
'and with his back to me), I, by a slight motion of my hand
(far too slight to be felt by the patient through any disturb-
ance of the air), draw him towards me as if I actually
grasped him.
" What is the chain of facts which is here presented to me ?
First, an action of my mind, without which I could not
have moved my hand ; secondly, my hand's motion ; thirdly,
motion produced in a body altogether external to, and dis-
tant from myself. But it will at once be perceived that, in
the chain of events as thus stated, there is a deficient link.
The communication between me and the distant body is not
accounted for. How could an act of my mind originate
an effect so unusual ?
" Why should we refuse to mesmerism that which we
grant to magnetism ? It is true that as yet we have no bal-
ance of torsion whereby the mesmeric force can be measur-
ed ; but in the human body itself we do possess an instru-
ment whereby its presence may be ascertained ; nor would
it be reasonable to insist upon separate agencies being de-
tected by the same test. Why, then, but from the force of
prejudice, should we call the mesmeric medium a gratui-
tous assumption ? That such a medium exists is not a gra-
tuitous assumption, but an unavoidable deduction of reason.
But there is a class of persons who refuse to admit of any-
thing which they cannot sec, taste, or handle ; with such it
is difficult to argue. Should proofs by experiments be ex-
hibited to them again and again, they still return to their
cuckoo note, ' Show me the agent.' One of these practi-
cal men, as they are called, actually said to me on one occa-
sion, i
I never will believe that what you call mesmerism
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 93
exists, unless }~ou can put it in a bottle, and submit it to
analysis."
" To what end, then, is reason given us, if not to judge of
things invisible by those which are clearly seen ? For
what purpose possess we the irresistible propensity to sup-
ply deficient links in a chain of causation, if not to prompt
us where our senses fail? We move a magnet over a
needle, the needle moves in a corresponding manner ; and
the human mind is so constituted that we cannot behold
these two facts in seeming connection without uniting them
by a third, which we consider as proved by them, since it is,
in truth, their necessary consequence. We infer that the
effect is produced by means of a magnetic current or medi-
um, a something which propagates motion from the magnet
to the needle. This something we cannot indeed behold,
yet do we believe in it, and with justice ; for that which
reason perceives to be necessary is not an invention, and
can never be superfluous ; on the contrary, the only immu-
table and essential truths come out of the mould of the in-
tuitive reason, which, as Coleridge observes, stops not at
1
this will be so,' but at once decides, l
This must be so.'
" Now, in all cases where motion is communicated from
one body to another, the line of communication must be
maintained unbroken.
M The first impulse gives motion to certain atoms, which in
their turn propel others, and so on, till the whole series be-
tween the active body and the body which is to receive the
original impulse, is set in motion, and then, at length, the
sequence of events is complete, and the body towards which
motion tended is set vibrating. If the medium that propa-
gates the first impulsion be undulatory and elastic, its atoms
only oscillate on either side a fixed point of rest ; but if it be
composed of traveling atoms, there is an actual progression
of the medium. In either case, motion is propagated by a
real action of matter till it reach its final destination. This
94 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
is the history of all communicated motion, and it is plain
that this holds good, whether we behold the collection of
atoms in a bodily shape, that transmits the motion, as in the
case of one billiard ball propelling another, or whether we
behold them not, as in the case of sound being communi-
cated to the ear from a vibrating body, by means of the
intervening air. I grant that the old maxim, '
A body can-
not act where it is not,' is very properly exploded ; but for
it we must substitute another, namely, c
A body cannot act
where it is not, save by deputy or transmissive means.'
Yet some have overlooked this truth ; and in their zeal to
avoid theories, when they behold two sensible actions evi-
dently dependent the one on the other, and yet apparently
disjointed, fear to unite them properly, by suggesting the
presence of an unseen link, which, nevertheless, cannot but
occur between the visible antecedent and the visible conse-
quent ; for motion is not an entity that can go through void
spaces, independently and alone ; it is merely a property,
which has no existence out of the subject that manifests it
;
and, where matter fails, there motion fails also. It is vain,
then, to hold such language, as if it were possible for one
body to produce motion in another without something inter-
mediate, that is, miraculously and without means ;
yet your
good hater of theories will even dare to blame Newton for
having suggested an ether to account for that action which
one body produces on another, and even, in many cases,
from vast distances, and which we call attraction. It is true,
that Newton may be wrong in the manner in which he
manages his ether, and accounts for impulsion and reimpul-
sion by differences of dense and rare ; but he cannot be
wrong in preserving an unbroken series of atoms between
separate bodies which manifestly influence each other—be-
tween the sun and earth, for instance—since in this case
there is mutual action and motion communicated from a dis-
tance. Extending the principle, and perceiving that all the
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 95
heavenly bodies were in mutual relationship, and the whole
celestial system harmoniously bound together, Newton sup-
posed his ether to be of universal action, and to fill and per-
vade creation, establishing a means of communication be-
tween all its several parts. Were this allowed, there would
be but little difficulty in explaining mesmerism ; but a sub-
lime divination of this kind is too vast for the general un-
derstanding. Accordingly, even Newton's name has failed
to render the theory palatable, and men of small views have
dared to call even this suggestion of a mighty mind gratui-
tous, treating the author with a levity which can only lessen
one's respect for the objectors. Have these cavilers an in-
tellect superior to Newton's own ? If they have, let them
give us something better than Newton's suggestion (better,
not only in their own opinions, but in ours) respecting the
great problems of creation ; some theory more solid and sub-
lime, to satisfy the cravings of humanity after pure and lofty
generalization : till then, let them, at least by silence, acqui-
esce in Professor Playfair's beautifully expressed opinion of
the queries : ' Such enlarged and comprehensive views, so
many new and bold conceptions, were never before com-
bined with the sobriety and caution of philosophical induc-
tion. The anticipation of future discoveries, the assemblage
of so many facts from the most distant regions of human
research, all brought to bear on the same points and to elu-
cidate the same questions, are never to be sufficiently ad-
mired.' In recalling this to the reader's mind, I trust that
I seem not to stray from my subject, which is, in truth, so
deeply implicated in the truth or falsehood of Newton's
principal suggestions. But I might leave this great man's
defence to time, which already has ' brought in its re-
venges,' science being even now occupied in developing
Newton's ideas, and in establishing as undoubted truths the
greater part of all which he so modestly advanced as queries.
Facts relative to the acceleration observed in the mean mo-
96 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
tion of comets have demonstrated, to the satisfaction of
men of science, the existence of a resisting medium, undu-
latory and elastic, which pervades the known universe.
11
How frequently it has thus happened that the deductions
of the pure reason have triumphed over the cavils and hesi-
tations of the understanding which, being conversant with
matters of experience only, cannot step beyond the sensuous
and the known ! Kepler believed that the harmony of our
system required a planet between Mars and Jupiter, and the
deficiency is now actually supplied by the discovery of the
four singular orbs which seem once to have formed but one
single body. My reader's memory will doubtless supply
other instances where the philosopher, in his closet, has
outrun experiment, and has divined what future observation
has verified and facts confirmed. When, thenj1
we find
Mesmer (who, whatever were his faults of conduct, was no
contemptible thinker) suggesting a universal medium as
alone explanatory of mesmeric phenomena, let us, instead
of unwisely scoffing, inquire whether the circumstances of
the case may not possibly render the existence of such a
medium a positive necessity, and a truth palpable to reason.
This at least we know, that all science seems now tending
to refer the apparently distinct agencies of nature to the
varied operation of one medium ; to establish, in fine, an
ether such as Newton had imagined, and such as Mesmer
perceived would satisfactorily account for the apparent
miracles of his new science.
" Now, whether mesmerism be a distinct medium, or only
the distinct effects of a general medium, widely manifested
in other offices, I will not take upon myself to decide. We
no longer consider electricity, magnetism, even light itself,
to be separate and independent agents ; we call them effects.
And this is well, if we remember to refer effects to causes,
and properties and qualities to real substances and subjects.
We must not turn all the goings-on of the world into mere
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 97
abstractions. Vibrations imply a vibrating body ; electric
motions or concussions, something that moves or is con-
cussed. It will, indeed, greatly simplify our ideas to con-
sider all the various appearances of nature as so many ac-
tions of matter, but we must beware of supposing that,
where action is present, matter can be absent. I am very
willing, then, to call all mesmeric phenomena effects ; but I
not the less contend that they must be effects of something.
I am willing to consider mesmerism itself as an action of
matter, yet still of matter. I cannot tell whether, in the
case of mesmeric agency, matter assumes the form of a fluid
or a gas, but I know and am sure that material agency there
is. This agency may be only one of the modifications of a
substance which operates in. other ways, or it may be the
single action of a single substance. But, in fact, the pro-
bability is, that there are really various media in nature,
the finer, we may suppose, occupying the interstices of
the grosser, distinct yet interfused, wheel within wheel, a
subtile mechanism. Every one knows that the atmosphere
is the medium through which sound is conveyed to us.
A bell rung under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump
is inaudible ; but the crystal walls, that keep out air, bar
not the passage of light and heat. Newton's experiment
of this, and his consequent reasoning on the fact, appear
to me conclusive. He says, (Qu. 18,) ' If in two large,
tall, cylindrical vessels of glass, inverted, two little ther-
mometers be suspended, so as not to touch the vessels,
and the air be drawn out of one of these vessels, and these
vessels, thus prepared, be carried out of a cold place into a
warm one, the thermometer in vacuo will grow warm as
much and almost as soon as the thermometer which is not
in vacuo. And, when the vessels are carried back into the
cold place, the thermometer in vacuo will grow cold almost
as soon as the other thermometer. Is not the heat of the
warm room conveyed through the vacuum by the vibrations
5*
98 NATURE OF ETHERIUM,
of a much subtiler medium than air, which, after the air
was drawn out, remained in the vacuum ? And is not this
medium the same with that medium by which light is re-
fracted and reflected V
" The conclusion which such experiments force upon us is,
that there really exist in nature different media, related, yet
distinct. If, therefore, I am understood literally instead of
figuratively when I speak of mesmerism as an individual
agency, I shall not seem greatly to have violated the anal-
ogies of nature. This at least I affirm, mesmerism has its
own peculiar action ; and therefore, for the sake of con-
venience, I shall denominate matter, as it is developed in
this particular way, the mesmeric medium, a term with
which, I trust, none of my readers will be disposed to
quarrel, the advantage and propriety of referring one class
of effects to one cause being manifest. We do this naturally
in all cases where distinction is required. The imponder-
able fluids are still characterized, pro forma, by individual
names, though we believe that they may be children of one
parent. From certain effects we are allowed to presume
the existence of a luminous medium. I therefore, by parity
of reasoning, may be allowed, from other effects, to infer
the existence of a mesmeric medium.
" And, in truth, there is no agenc}r
which more manifestly
than this may claim to be distinctive, since it is developed
under quite other circumstances ; and, being developed,
presents quite other phenomena than any material action
with which we have hitherto been acquainted.
" It neither results from a union of gases nor from chemical
composition. It is not developed by the rubbing of amber
or the juxtaposition of minerals. It is elicited by certain
actions of living nature alone.
" Viewed merely as a physical agency, it originates a sleep,
sui generis, which pervades the external organs, yet leaves
the intelligence free : jt brings the nervous system into a
NATURE OF ETHEItlUM. 99
state of exceeding sensibility, rendering it cognizant of influ-
ences by which at other times it is wholly unaffected.
" Now what is the medium we know not ; and, therefore,
all that remains for us, in our ignorance, to do, is to gather
as much information concerning it as we can. We cannot
analyze it in the same manner as light, or separate it into
its component parts, like the atmosphere ; but every agent
has its own elements, and, consequently, a method of anal-
ysis proper to itself. This is clear ; in its mode of action
it can alone be made manifest ; its sensible action, there-
fore, is the legitimate sphere in which it may be studied
;
and, till we have all its facts and relations, we have only to
observe its phenomena, and to state the results of our ob-
servation as plainly as possible.
" First, then, it is an agency which has physical effects on
man.
" That any one who has been conversant with even the
first symptoms produced by mesmerism should doubt the
physical and distinct character of the agency, seems impos-
sible. However marvelous be the train of mental phenom-
ena consequent upon its operation, its primary effects are
undoubtedly upon the body of the patient. Those who are
neither under the predisposing influence of fear or of imagi-
nation ; who know not what they have to expect ; who,
perhaps, close their eyes from the beginning of the experi-
ment, all agree in feeling a weight upon the eyelids, accom-
panied by a slight pricking ; then follows the sensation of a
cold current of air streaming in the direction of the mes-
merizer's fingers, and of a torpor in the limbs, which gradu-
ally increases, until spontaneous motion becomes not only
difficult, but impossible to the patient.
" It has been asserted that, when the attention of mesmeric
patients is pre-occupied and diverted from the mesmeric
processes, or when the imagination has not been previously
advised of an effect to follow, the agency is null.
100 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
" This statement demands an examination the more serious,
inasmuch as it is one of those half-truths which Coleridge
has denounced as fatal to true philosophy.
" It must be allowed that the mesmeric influence is to a
certain degree impeded, should it be essayed upon a person
who is determined to resist it, oi\ whose mind is actively
engaged upon other matters ; but does this, can this prove
that the agency is null save in the imagination of the pa-
tient ? The only thing that it demonstrates with certainty is
that which every rational man who has at all studied the
subject must concede, namely, that the force employed in
the mesmeric process is not sudden or violent in its action,
but of the nature of those subtile influences which it requires
a certain attention, and, indeed, education of the sensibili-
ty to perceive. A savage has been known to track his
prey, like a dog, by the scent alone ; and in doing so, he
must, of necessity, fix all his attention upon the fine exha-
lations whereby he is guided. But how plainly absurd it
would be to affirm on that account that there was no actual
exciting cause of the sensations of the savage ! But, it is
argued, the imagination must be forewarned before the ef-
fects called mesmeric can occur ; and is not this sufficient
to refer them to the imitative power of the imagination? The
answer is not difficult.
"Imagination, indeed, imitates, but then it must have some-
thing to imitate. The very expression presupposes a model,
and gives real existence to the subject in debate. Granting
that which, indeed, I do not concede, namely, that the ef-
fects of mesmerism can be proved without mesmerism, and
by the imagination solely, it by no means follows that cer-
tain effects have not at certain times been produced by mes-
merism, and by pure mesmerism. That which is spurious
argues that which is true, and many copies of a picture
place the existence of an original beyond a doubt.
" Again : they who draw strong conclusions against mes-
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 101
meristn by affirming that it cannot take effect unless the
imagination be prepared to receive it, should remember that
they who, deeming they shall feel nothing under mesmerism,
and do actually feel nothing, are both forewarned and fore-
armed against the influence in debate ; and are thus them-
selves under the predisposing sway of the imagination as
much as their opponents, only in a different manner ; the
one party believing they shall, the other that they shall not,
experience certain effects. Under these circumstances, how
the latter can pretend to a more accurate judgment on the
point t^an the former, I confess I cannot perceive. ' Im-
agination does much,' say the anti-mesmerists : granted ;
and let us have the full benefit of the principle. If imagina-
tion be so potent, it may also render insensible to mesmeric
influence those who are predetermined to feel nothing of it.
-Yet more ; the force of the mind to resist even the most
powerful influences may be easily shown by facts to be
great, nay, incalculable. In Lockhart's Life of Scott, an
anecdote proving this, is related by Scott himself, of one
of the Duke of Buccleugh's farmers. c
His father had given
him a quantity of laudanum (writes Sir Walter) instead of
some other medicine. The mistake was instantly discover-
ed ; but the young man had sufficient energy and force of
mind to combat the operation of the drug. While all
around him were stupid with fear, he rose, saddled his horse,
and rode to Selkirk (six or seven miles), thus saving the
time that the doctor must have taken in coming to him. It
is very curious that his agony of mind was able to suspend
the operation of the drug until he had alighted, when it in-
stantly began to operate. He recovered perfectly.'
"The degree to which a person may resist, yet still be in-
fluenced by, the mesmeric agency, when preoccupied by
some counteracting idea, was on one occasion demonstrated
to me, and, as it were, marked off and measured in an inter-
esting manner.
102 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
"A friend of mine at Cambridge, who knew nothing what-
ever of animal magnetism (as it was then called) but the
name, consented to let me try an experiment upon him be-
fore some incredulous persons, who had said they would
never believe in the agency until they saw it exhibited
upon some one who did not even know that he was to
go to sleep. It being ascertained that Mr. H— (the sin-
cerest of all men) was really ignorant of even so much mes-
meric lore, I and my patient sat down in our proper relative
positions. At the end of five minutes (though it was the
unsleepy time of noon) Mr. H— began to close his efes and
to nod, but soon started, rubbed his eyes, shook himself, and
went through all the usual formula of a person who wishes
to keep awake. This alternate nodding and arousing went
on for some time, when, tired at length of such unsatisfac-
tory results, I gave the matter up and quitted my chair.
The patient was then questioned as to what he had felt.
1
Only very sleepy,' he replied. 1
1 experienced no elec-
tric shock, nor anything of the kind, though I watched and
waited for it.'
l
But if you felt sleepy, why did you not
go to sleep?' asked some one. c
Oh,' answered Mr. H—
,
1
what would I not have given to have gone to sleep ? but
I thought I must on no account do this, as I was to keep a
sharp look-out for the electric shock !' My reader may
smile at this, but I can assure him that the ignorance of my
friend respecting the effects of mesmerism is no measure of
his information on other subjects.
" It appears, then, that the only concession we have to
make to the anti-mesmerist is, that the mood of mind and
body which is most favorable to the reception of mes-
meric influence is that which Wordsworth has characterized
under the title of 'a wise passiveness.' How completely
this refutes the arguments, or, rather, assumptions of those
who would resolve all mesmerism into imagination, is mani-
fest. But it is time that this question should be forever set
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 103
at rest. How such a cause as imagination could at any time
be assigned or accepted as explanatory of mesmeric phe-
nomena is matter of wonder, and that it should be so dimin-
ishes one's respect for the sagacity of the human species.
Here, indeed, is inefficient causation ! Here, truly, is gratui-
tous assumption ! I have heard of imagination keeping
persons awake, but never of its setting them to sleep. This
busy power holds no possible alliance with mesmerism,
whose gentle influence, like streams that are only heard
when we listen for them in the hush of night, must be at-
tended to with the quiet patience of a peaceful spirit.
" But the imagination theory is really too absurd to merit a
serious refutation.*
" A thousand times I have seen mesmeric patients placed
under circumstances where the action of imagination was
plainly impossible. In proof of this I have only to refer to
the preceding books of this work. Persons, it will there be
seen, have been thrown into the mesmeric state when asleep,
and wholly unadvised of any experiment to be tried upon
them. They have been drawn towards the mesmerizer
from a distance, when standing with their backs to him ;
they have manifested phenomena coinciding with those dis-
played by other mesmeric patients at different times and at
different places, and which could not have resulted from im-
itation, since the patients themselves, not knowing a previ-
ous type, were plainly incapable of producing a copy.
" Surely facts like these imperatively call upon us to ac-
knowledge an agency, which we may call mesmeric or
what we please, so long as we confound it not with imagi-
nation, imitation, et hoc genus omne of inefficient and inap-
plicable causes.
" Experience of the past should teach us not to despair of
seeing the statics and dynamics of the mesmeric force plain-
* I would refer my reader to the article in this work on Creden-
civeness to find an explanation of the nature of imagination.
104 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
ly laid down. Who, in the early periods of science, would
have ventured to predict the invention of a balance whereby
the magnetic action could be reduced to weight and mea-
sure ? Look at the history of magnetical discoveries ! What
patience, what erroneous guesses, what feeble dawnings of
truth, what lessons of hope are there ! The knowledge of
magnetical effect is as old, at least, as the era of Homer, by
whom they are distinctly referred to ; but it is less than a
century ago* that Mitchell established the true law of mag-
netic action, and mesmerism has not yet completed its
seventieth year : a measure of existence which the Psalmist
has assigned as the period of one man's life ! Is this a suf-
ficient space for the development of a subject the most fer-
tile and the most vast, because the most intimately connect-
ed with man ?
" This, at least, even in the present state of mesmeric
science, may be affirmed, that, considered as a force, the
agency betrays no slight indications of its affinity with me-
chanical powers, and that certain circumstances regarding it
bring to us nearly a full conviction that its effects are depend-
ent on a certain invariable proportion between the mesmeric
force of the individual who dispenses, and that of him who
submits to receive the influence. t What that proportion
is, once ascertained, (and how can this be but by repeated
observation ?) would reduce mesmerism to a law and to a
certainty. Its mental and remedial effects will indeed ne-
cessarily always continue to be varied according to the char-
acter and temperament of its patients, but its purely phy-
sical agency might be brought within conditions perhaps
narrower and more simple than we can now conceive. Sup-
posing (as some now deem) the vital action to be electric,
that which is called a man's nervous force or constitution
* In 175Q.
f By referring to my remarks on Isolation, it will be seen why the
more powerful cannot always affect the weaker.
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 105
would depend on the possession of a certain original measure
of the electric fluid. "Were this found to be the case, (my
idea may raise a smile,) a neurometer, or instrument to as-
certain the power of a person, might give to mesmerism the
precision which science requires. Who would have thought
at one time a measure of magnetism possible ?
" My suggestion may be deemed absurd, but this will not
alter the facts of mesmerism. At present, we are only ac-
quainted with the general result, and not with the elements
that compose it ; but this is no more a proof that is not com-
posed of elements, than the ancient ignorance what water
was could have demonstrated that it was not composed of
two airs in certain proportions.
." Our knowledge that the will acts, yet our ignorance how
it acts, on matter, should prepare us to receive, without a
dogmatic denial at least, proofs of an extension in its capa-
cities and its sphere. If, in some mysterious way, I actuate
another, it is scarcely more wonderful than that I actuate
myself. It is true that the latter comes within the range
of my every-day experience ; but can I any more compre-
hend it ?
" How great a force the will either has or wields, may
be almost measured off to our senses in a very simple but
striking manner.
" Let two covered vessels precisely alike, the one empty,
the other full of some heavy substance, such as leaden bul-
lets, be placed before a person. Let him first lift the full
vessel, and let him then be told to raise the empty one, with
an understanding that it is of equal weight with the first.
The person doing this will put into action so much unne-
cessary force, from the expectation of being about to lift a
great weight, that his baffled vigor will, in its reaction,
cause quite a painful concussion in the muscles of the arm.
Now could that force, which, as it were, returns upon him-
self, be directed outward, it is plain that it might produce a
106 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
very powerful and peculiar action in the media wherewith
we are surrounded. And wherefore not directed outward?
This, at least, we know, that the will is really the primary
agent which enables us to move all bodies foreign to and
apart from ourselves. In these cases, indeed, it acts through
intermediate agencies which are visible to us. But there is
nothing whatever to render it impossible that the mind should
act sometimes by unseen, yet even more potent intermedi-
aries than the accustomed. After all, what astonishes us in
mesmerism is not that the mind is shown capable of produ-
cing motion, but that it is exhibited producing motion in a
different way, as we conceive, from that with which our ex-
perience is familiar. That the mind should originate a
series of motions of which we cannot behold certain of the
intervening links (I speak of cases in which the mesmeriser
influence his patient from a distance), this is the true ground
of our wonder and incredulity. Yet, in fact, the very same
thing occurs in our commonest experience. When I move
one of my fingers, I am only acquainted with the first fact
and the last in a sequence of events, the intermediate cir-
cumstances of which are hidden from my knowledge, and
which are, probably, very numerous. Some of the hidden
links in the series, I know from reason. From the anato-
mist, I learn that my mind, in the first instance, moves a
portion of my brain (for certain injuries to the brain render
voluntary motion impossible) ; that this, again, communi-
cates an impnlse to a nerve (for, cut the nerve, and the im-
pulse reaches not the muscle) ; that then, again, a muscle is
moved, and finally the finger. The simplest voluntary mo-
tion, then, is but an impulse, originating with mind in the
first place, and thence transferred through a series of atoms.
There is a sequence of changes, nothing more ; some of
which are known to us, others not. There is (to use the
language of Locke) but one real action, yet many passions
or communicated motions. And what is mesmerism but
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 107
this ? * The same definition suits motion, whether produced
mesmerically or normally. The same circumstances attend
both. Again, even should we pursue motion beyond the
.
limits of our own bodies, we shall find that there are invisible
links in all the impulsions which we communicate to matter.
The philosopher knows that we are not in real contact with
anything which we appear to touch ; that there is always
something invisible between us and the object that we
handle.
" Again : do I not, by every motion of my body, change
the relative position of the atoms of the media that surround
me ? Do I not displace the air, cause various motions in the
waves of light, and influence nature to a distance around
me which it were vain to attempt to calculate ? The
wonder, then, seems to be, not that the mind should pro-
duce changes in surrounding objects, but that, being itself
1
the fountain-head of motion,' it should not move matter
more forcibly and generally. Doubtless it would be so had
not the all-wise Ruler of creation confined the human mind
within necessary limits. Could the will sway the material
as it does the immaterial world, what bounds would there
be to the tyrant's caprice, to the conqueror's ambition?
Mountains would crumble as a dream, and oceans be dried
up at our bidding. A Napoleon would l
make a sop of all
the solid globe.' These ideas are not so extravagant as his
who doubts the power of the human will. By that alone
we do great things ; by that alone we conquer kingdoms or
ourselves ; by that alone we achieve the hourly miracle of
moving matter, united with, or extraneous to ourselves. Is
the will, then, a nullity, whose influence is to be excluded
from our consideration when we treat on any subject which
nearly concerns man ?
M In the chain of our argument, then, there appears to be
no link wanting. It is thus connected. Every thought
moves the brain in its own appropriate manner.
108 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
" A pervading medium being allowed to exist throughout
nature (such as the electric), it follows as a consequence
that every thought which moves the brain imparts motion
also to the ethereal medium.
" Mesmerized persons, being in a state of extreme sensibil-
ity, are cognizant of the motions of finer media than com-
mon.
"The motions created by the thoughts of other persons be-
ing transferred through the brain, and through a certain me-
dium to the sensorium of a mesmerized person, are to him
intelligible signs of thought : a language which, though new
to him at first, he, by a gradual process of association, gives
meaning to and learns to comprehend.
" They who watch for my halting, and are on the look-out
for discrepancies, may here remind me that I have in other
places advanced facts which are at variance with the sup-
position of a vibratory medium in mesmerism, and which
rather tend to establish the existence of a material emana-
tion, of which the mesmerizer's'body is the original source.
Contact, the breath, motions of the hand near the patient,
have been described as powerfully aiding the transmission
of the mesmeric influence. To this I reply that it is now
very generally admitted that heat is but a modification of
the same agent which produces the sensation of light ; in
other words, no real entity, but a peculiar action of matter.
Thus to heat a body is only to bring the atoms which com-
pose that body into a particular state of vibration. Yet, in
order to effect this, in order to induce that peculiar action
of matter which we call heat, we employ certain means,
which, being themselves material, tend to invest the agent
with a material character, but which are in reality only the
occasions of bringing certain atoms into a particular state.
"It may well, then, be allowed, by those, at least, who
adopt the undulatory theory, that the material means em-
ployed in mesmerism to charge a patient with the mesmeric
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 109
influence are no proof whatever of the material character of
that influence, but are simply methods whereby a medium
may be thrown into that particular state of action.* That
,
* In contrast with my own views, as well as those of Mr. Townsend
and every other author who has written upon this subject, I will, in
justice to the Rev. La Roy Sunderland, give the principal arguments
which he advances in opposition to the doctrine of a fluid. It should
be understood, that he claims to have been the^first to discover that
the organs of the brain can be excited by touching them, although he
denies that it is done by the agency of a fluid. Without discussing
that subject in this place, I will merely say that I deny that he or any
one else has made such a discovery, and I refer for further particulars
on this point, to another part of this work. But concerning a fluid,
Mr. S. in his work entitled " Pathetism," says:
" What we wish to ascertain, is, whether the brain or nervous
system eliminates a fluid, which is received into the system of the
subject, who is affected by pathetism ? When the fingers are applied
to the cerebral organs, and the subject manifests any given emotion, is
that emotion excited by the reception of a nervous substance from the
hand of the operator ? Or when one operates upon another, (as it is
said,) by his will, merely, is there in this case, a transmission of any
fluid or substance from the nerves of the operator, into the nerves of
the patient ?
" The following are some of the reasons which incline me to the
negative of this question :
—
" 1. The results produced without any physical contact, and with-
out any effort of the will.
" It is susceptible of the clearest demonstration, that sleep, for in-
stance, may be induced without any physical contact, or any mental
effort of the will of another, whatever. And so of many of the results
already described in the preceding chapter. To suppose the trans-
mission of a fluid in the case of the wooden tractors, or in the case of
the non-magnetised tree of Mesmer, is perfectly preposterous. When
the patient touched a tree that had not been magnetised, he was seized
with convulsions ; but when he came in contact with the tree upon
which the operator assumed to have thrown the magnetic fluid, he
was not affected at all ! No wonder the French commissioners put the
seal of their condemnation upon Mesmer's theory.
" But, that persons often sink into a state/ of real somnipathy, with-
out any influence from physical contact or the will of another, is a
matter of certainty. I have known persons to fall into this state, par-
tially, who had never been pathetised, merely by seeing me operate on
another; and, times without number, have I had my patients fall into
this state,when they have been in the same room, or in the same dwelling
where they knew I was operating upon others, when I had no volition
at all upon the subject. Only the present week, a patient on whom I
110 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
there is no just reason why that action should not be vibra-
tory is also manifest.
had not operated for more than six months, happened to be present
while I was pathetising another; and though she was decidedly
opposed to going to sleep herself, and though I did not wish her to
fall into this state, yet she did so. And what was remarkable, when
asleep, she refused to let me touch her for the purpose of waking her up;
and after remaining in this state all night, she remembered nothing of
what had happened, on waking up the next morning. Her opposition
to being pathetised arose from her dread of ridicule ; but we see from
this case how it is, that the mind of a person overcomes the suscepti-
bility, and induces sleep, without any will on the part of another,
and indeed, in some cases, even against the wishes cf the patient him-
self.
" But I may be referred to cases like the following: —the patient is
blindfolded, and the operator merely brings his fingers within an inch
or so of any particular organ, and its function is excited. Or, the pa-
tient places his finger near any given organ in the head of another,
and his own mind becomes affected.
" To this I answer :
" (1.) If the excitement of the separate organs is caused by the
actual transmission of a fluid, the results should always be the same ;
that is the emotions excited in one subject should be the same as those
excited from precisely the same place in the head of another. But
this is not the case ; for though the cerebral organs may be excited
without contact, in some subjects, yet the same feelings are not
always excited from the same locations, in different heads. These
discrepancies can be accounted for, only, by the laws of sympathy be-
fore described.
" (2.) Exciting the cerebral organs without contact, no more proves
the transmission of a fluid, than the relief of pain, or sleep, induced
without contact.
" (3.) The cases in which the cerebral organs can be controlled by
pathetisrn, to any considerable degree, are very few ; and hence, it is
hardly safe to deduce a general law from these few cases.
" (4.) Among the subjects susceptible of cerebral excitement, by
manipulation, the number is fewer still whose organs can be controlled
without any contact ; and the world over, perhaps, not one individual
was ever found, in whom each of the organs could be excited without
contact. But, if one organ may be excited in this way, and if there be
an actual transmission of a fluid into the brain of the subject, it is
plain, that we should be able to excite one organ as well as another.
But this is not, by any me^ns, the case.
" 2. Effects produced on idiots and infants.
"Every operator must have noticed, how much more difficult it is
to affect infants and idiots, than it is adults, and persons in whom the
cerebral organs are fully developed. But, if a fluid be actually trans-
mitted, why should it not be received with equal readiness into the
heads of idiots and children ? —Infants, who have all the organs, pro-
portionally large, are not (other things being equal,) so easily affected
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. Ill
" Pursuing the analogy between heat and the mesmeric
agency, we know that, with regard to exciting the former,
as adults. Nor, indeed, am I aware that there has ever been an in-
stance, where the cerebral organs have been separately excited in in-
fants. But why not ? Why should not the finger of the operator
transmit the neuraura to the organ of Benevolence or Self-Esteem, in
a brain six months old, as easily as into one twenty-five or thirty
years ? The true reason is, these effects, in many cases, depend much
upon the mental apprehensions of the subject, as I have already stated
in the preceding theory.
" 3. The different results from the same locations, and the same
results from different locations.
" For instance: in one subject Combativeness is excited by touch-
ing the bridge of the nose,' so called; in another, by touching the
muscles in the under lip ; in another, by touching the scapula; and in
another, by touching one of the fingers or teeth ? Can any one, in
his senses, believe these results to be produced bv the transmission of
a fluid ?
" But, to get rid of this difficulty, an advocate of the fluid theory
tells us, that in these cases the patient is under the control of the
operator's will, and, therefore, these results are not to be depended
upon ! Just as much as the man who makes this objection, and no
more. I have operated on hundreds, and, I may say, thousands of
cases, where I know that the subjects were no more under the in-
fluence of my will, in the sense above supposed, than any other person
whom I never saw. I have put them to sleep by my will, as it is
called, and without it—I have examined this agency in every imagina-
ble aspect, and tested it in every conceivable manner possible, and
affirm what I know, when I say, that I have induced these different
results from persons who were not asleep, and from others who were,
and yet. they were not caused or modified by my will, in the least
conceivable degree. The inference, to my own mind, is irresistible,
that the notion of a fluid transmitted from the operator to the subject,
is utterly unfounded.
"How could a subject be influenced by my will, when I had no
will about the result, as to what it should or would be ? The truth
is, many operators have unquestionably, been most egregiously deceived
as to many things they have attributed to their own wills. How the sus-
ceptibility is controlled by the will, and how the will and the suscepti-
bility reciprocally act upon each other, I have already shown. But, to
assume that, when I touch the same organs in three different subjects,
and they every one manifest a different result, one must be more in
love with theories that I desire to be, to believe that the results are
either caused by the transmission of a fluid, or that they are the results
of my own volitions, when I know that I exerted no will in the cases
at all, and the patients were no rore controlled by my will than the
chairs on which they sat.
' ;
4. The immediate agencies for affecting the mind, must, in all
cases, be the same.
"Titillation of the feet or sides, excites the organs of mirth. Is
112 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
the means are not only variousj but that they may be alter-
ed according to circumstances. Occasionally they may ap-
therc, ia such cases, a fluid transmitted ? And what is the difference
between the agency by which mirth is excited, either by tickling the
soles of the feet, or by applying the fingers to the organs of mirth in
the head ? A tread upon a gouty toe, not unfrcquently excites the
organ of Combativencss. Is there a fluid transmitted in such cases ?
" How often ^do we feel our Hope, Faith, Courage, Devotion, Love
and Benevolence excited, by what we hear said in a public assembly
;
and in this way, thousands of organs are all excited at the same mo-
ment. Is there a fluid transmitted in such cases? Who can be-
lieve it ?
" But I might ask, what excites emotion in any case ? What is the
immediate agency which excites feeling of any kind? If it be by a
fluid eliminated in one case, why not in all? and if the hand transmits
this nervous current or fluid, on applying it to the head, how is it to
be rationally accounted for, that this fact was never discovered before
the nineteenth century ? How has it come to pass, that among
the millions of millions who have had their hands upon each
other's cerebral organs, since the world began, not one of them ever
received this fluid in any perceptible degree, before the year 1811 ?
Really, to swallow such an assumption, one needs an organ of Marvel
-
ousness, to say the least, much larger than the one possessed by the
writer of these pages.
" The truth of the case is, most who Have ever manifested any interest
in the investigation of this subject, under whatever name it has been
presented, have taken it for granted, all along, that there must he a
magnetic or nervous fluid actually transmitted in order to produce
these results, because those who have gone before have said so. And
thinking of no other way for solving all the phenomena which followed
the process of manipulation, we have readily adopted the crude notions
of others. And this is the more remarkable, when we examine the
results of the wooden tractors, together with the history of Mcsmer's
operations, and observe what an abundance of facts they present,
which go directly to annihilate the fluid theory."
My readers may be curious to know by what theory Mr. Sunderland
proposes to account for the facts without admitting an etherium or fluid,
I must confess that, after reading his work carefully, I find it impossi-
ble to understand his theory, or if I do understand it, I beg leave to
say, without intending any disrespect, that it is perfectly absurd.
He seems to resolve the whole matter into a metaphysical abstraction,
too refined for ordinary comprehension, and infinitely more subtile than
the fluid which he denounces. But let the reader judge by the fol-
lowing extract, which embodies his views on this point
:
" It will have been seen, that by what I denominate pathetlsm, is
meant susceptibility to the influence of an agency which is concerned
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 113
pear very complex, as where chemistry employs its re-
sources to develop heat by the union of two liquids or gases ;
and occasionally nothing can be more simple, as where, by
in every feeling or emotion, or passion, or action which was ever felt,
or put forth by any human being. It has to do with the laws of ani-
mal life—with nervous susceptibility to pleasure or to pain. Without
it, man is a lifeless body of matter. All the feelings therefore which
one human being may be able to excite in the mind of another, whether
pleasurable or otherwise, all the influence he is enabled to exert over
mind, are identical with this same agency. If they be from the mate-
ria medica, received into the stomach, or agencies applied to the sur-
face of the body, their effects depend upon a susceptibility ,
peculiar
to the living body. Or, if impressions be made upon the sensorium
through the eye or ear, or through the nerves of sensation, the imme-
diate agency which carries those impressions to the mind is pathetism.
It is heard in the tones of the voice—it is seen in the look of the eye,
and the features of the face; and in its effects thus produced, nothing
is thought of it, because these are common and always before the
mind. But when precisely the same thing, is felt from the touch of
the human hand, those not familiar with the true philosophy of mind
start back and tell us this cannot be ! But why not ? What has been
known, or what is now known of the human system, which proves
that the same influence may not be communicated to one, from the
touch of the hand, which at other times reaches the soul through the
eye, or ear ? Or, who has been able to tell how it is that an impression
is made upon the mind through the ear? What is there in sound to
affect nri)id ? Or, when the rays of light strike upon the optic nerves,
what makes the intellect take cognizance of the image which they
make there ? In a word, how is it that what we call mind is im-
pressed by natural agencies, in any way ? Can matter control spirit ?
" And pressing these inquiries thus far, I might ask an objector to
tell the difference between matter and spirit—'What is an element ?
What are the laws by which mind and matter reciprocally affect each
other ? What is life ? What is disease and death ?
" Do you say that we know nothing of these first principles ? that we
are in the dark as to the laws which operate in producing the most
common occurrences of life ? Then it must not, it will not be denied
but that there are other things as mysterious and unaccountable, as
the wonders of phrenopathy or clairvoyance. When I place my hand
upon the head of another, and he manifests a feeling of sadness or joy
;
when by the same simple process, I cause him to weep or to sing,
laugh or to pray, to rave with madness or to soar in ecstasies of plea-
surable emotions, is there any more real mystery in the agency by
which these things are done, than when one is made to weep by merely
looking upon a scene of suffering ; or when he is induced to sing from
the influence of certain sounds which break upon the ear ?
" Andthu3 of mental perceptions, when the external senses are closed.
It is not uncommon for persons to have more vivid and impressive
views of objects in their natural sleep, than they ever had in their
6
114 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
more friction, we produce heat. This should warn us not
to be surprised that mesmeric results should accrue from
different processes, simple as well as complex ; that at one
waking state. The system being composed and all the faculties at
rest, except the one or two whose excitement constitutes the dream-
ing, the energies of the whole seem to be concentrated upon those or-
gans, and an impression is thus made more powerful than any which
could be produced when all the organs are in a state of general wake-
fulness. The phenomenon of dreaming is common, and therefore
excites no surprise. But when one is put into a state of sleep by arti-
ficial means, and in that state he is found to see with his eyes fast
closed, and to have perceptions of distant objects, the phenomenon is
new, and we cannot admit it.
" If we take two pieces of smooth soft iron, and put them in contact,
we do not see that one has any influence upon the other ; but if we
rub one piece upon the other, in one direction only, for a length of
time, we perceive that by this process, we have established such a
relation between the two, that they mutually attract each other. And
yet we cannot detect any substance in either of them which was not
there before ; nor do we see that a fluid of any kind is actually com-
municated by one and received by the other. All we know about this
phenomenon is, that by a certain process, a relation has been estab-
lished between those two pieces of iron, which causes them to stick
together in this manner. What that relation is we do not know. It
-would seem, however, that this process had actually produced a dffer-
ence in the qualities of iron ; for before they were passed upon each
other in the way I have stated, they were precisely alike in quality ;
for on applying either of them to either pole of an ordinary magnet,
they affected it exactly alike. But, not so, after they have been rubbed
together, as above ; for after this process, one of them will be found to
possess north polarity, and the other south; thus proving that though
they were precisely alike in quality before, yet, this process has
changed the quantity of both, and rendered them susceptible of attrac-
tion or repulsion.
" By all persons who have heretofore written on this subject, it has
been assumed, as a matter of intuition, that what I denominate pathe-
tism, or the 'human influence,' is conveyed from one system to
another by the nerves of sensation, or motion, orboth. Hence it has
been called the nervous fluid,' ' nueraura,' &c. But no one of these
theorists have ever been able to tell which class of the nerves, convey
or receive this influence. Are they the nerves of sensation ? We
have already seen that the process of pathetising most generally sus-
pends the function of these nerves entirely. Are they the nerves of
motion ? This process usually suspends the power of locomotion, and,
indeed, all voluntary muscular motion throughout the system. Hence
the conclusion is inevitable, that a distinct class of organs or
nerves exist, constituting a part of the medullary matter, probably,
whose functions are purely sympathetic. This accounts for the
effects ofpathetism, and shows how it is that sensations are conveyed
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 115
time the mesmerizer should employ all the intermediate aids
of gesture, look and respiration, yet at another, with equal
success, influence his patient by the mere action of his mind
and brain."
Animal electricity.—In order still further to exhilit
the analogy between electricity and the agent which pro-
duces animal motions and etheropathic phenomena, T will
give a few instances of the application of electricity to the
bodies of animals and men. I do not wish to be understood
as insisting that animal and human motions are produced
by electricity, but that they are produced by a power
which bears a very close resemblance to it in every essential
quality. I consider the effects of human Etherium, mag-
from the pathetiser to his somnipathist, without contact, and when the
latter is wholly insensible to pain from violence done to the nerves of
sensation. By this process the function is suspended, and at the same
time, the subject may be made to suffer more from mere sympathy
with the operator than he would from violence to his own system.
All the sympathetic nervous sensibilities are heightened to an extra-
ordinary degree, while the functions of the other nerves are partially
or wholly suspended.
" The susceptibility of different persons depends upon the develop-
ments of the ganglionic, or sympathetic system, which unites the
mind, and the nerves of sensation and motion.
" The mind, and this susceptibility, or the sympathetic system, re-
ciprocally act upon each other. The latter is the medium through
which the emotions and volitions of mind are manifested, and through
the same medium all its impressions are received.
" By establishing a positive relation between two persons, the mind
of one may thereby control the susceptibility of the other; or by ap-
plying the hand of one to any part of" the other, different mental and
physical changes, may thus be produced. Hence it follows, that the
only influence extended from one mind or body to another, depends
upon the kind of relation established between them, and the same is
true, with regard to any influence felt by the living body, from any
other cause.
"It is a universal law of nature, that positive results are produced
by a relation between an agent, and a subject, or two or more sub-
stances, brought into relation with each other. It is only by estab-
lishing a connection between two things or forms which differ in
quality, that a positive result differing in quality from either of the
two is produced. This is the first law of Pathetism, and from which
we see how it is, that one may not be able to produce the same effects
upon different persons."
116 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
netic Etherium, and caloric Etherium, as but modified
motions of one and the same substance, just as the different
colors of light are but modified motions of one substance ;
and as the different kinds of heat, recognized by Prof.
Faraday, are but modifications of one general principle of
caloric.
I have no doubt that there are many different motions or
modifications of human Etherium ; indeed, reasoning from
analogy, there must be. It would also seem that those pond-
erable substances which are conductors of one kind of ethe-
rean motion are non-conductors or isolators of some other
kinds. The whole subject is rich in material for philoso-
phical inquiry and reflection. The following extracts will
serve to illustrate these views :
Extract of a letter to the London Electrical Society, from Andrew
Crosse, Esq., published in Silliman's Journal, Vol. XXXV. No. 1.
" Electricity is no longer the paltry confined science which it
was once fancied to be, making its appearance only from the fric-
tion of glass or wax, employed in childish purposes, serving as a
trick for the school-boy, or a nostrum for the quack. But it is,
even now, though in its infancy, proved to be most intimately con-
nected with all operations in chemistry, with magnetism, with
light and color ; apparently a property belonging to all matter,
perhaps ranging through all space, from sun to sun, from planet
to planet ; and not improbably the secondary cause of every change
in the animal, mineral, vegetable and gaseous systems. It is to
determine, to ascertain what rank in the tree of science electricity
is to hold ; to endeavor to find out to what useful purposes it might
be applied, that I conceive is the object of your Society ; and I shall
at all times be ready and willing, as a member, to contribute my
quota of information to its support, knowing well, that however
little it might be, it will be as kindly received as it is humbly offer-
ed. It is most unpleasing to my feelings to glance at myself as an
individual, but I have met with so much virulence and abuse, so
much calumny and misrepresentation, in consequence of the ex-
periments which I am about to detail, and which it seems, in this
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 117
nineteenth century, a crime to have made, that I must state, not for
the sake of myself, (for I utterly scorn all such misrepresentations,)
but for the sake of truth and the science which I follow, that I
am neither an < atheist,' nor a « materialist,' nor a ' self-imagined
creator ;'
but a humble and lowly reverencer of that Great Being,
whose laws my accusers seem to have lost sight of. More than
this, it is my conviction, that science is only a means to a greater
end.
" I reduced a piece of black flint to powder, having first exposed
it to a red heat, and quenched it in water to make it friable. Of
this powder 1 took two ounces, and mixed them intensely with
six ounces of carbonate of potassa, exposed them to a strong heat
for fifteen minutes, in a black lead crucible, in an air furnace, and
then poured the fused compound on an iron plate, reduced it to
powder while still warm, poured boiling water on it, and kept it
boiling for some minutes in a sand-bath. The greater part of the
soluble glass thus fused, was taken up by the water, together with
a portion of alumina from the crucible. I should have used one of
silver, but had none sufficiently large. To a portion of the silicate
of potassa thus fused, I added some boiling water to dilute, and
then slowly added hydrochloric acid to supersaturation. A strange
remark was made on this part of the experiment, at a meeting of
the British Association at Liverpool, it being then gravely stated,
that it was impossible to add an acid to a silicate of potassa with-
out precipitating the silica ! This, of course, must be the case, un-
less the solution be diluted with water. My object in subjecting
this fluid to a long continued electric action, through the interven-
tion of a porous stone, Was to form, if possible, crystals of silica
at one of the poles of the battery, but I failed in accomplishing
this by those means. On the fourteenth day from the commence-
ment of the experiment, I observed, through a lens, a few small
whitish excrescences or nipples projecting from about the middle
of the electrified stone, and nearly under the dropping of the fluid
above ; on the eighteenth day, these projections enlarged, and seven
or eight filaments, each of them larger than the excrescence from
which it grew, made their appearance on each of the nipples.
" On the twenty-second day these appearances were more elevated
and distinct, and on the twenty-sixth day, each figure assumed the
form of a perfect insect, standing erect on a few bristles which
118 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
formed its tail. Till this period I had no notion that these appear-
ances were any other than an incipient mineral formation ; but it
was not until the twenty-eighth day, when I plainly perceived
these little creatures move their legs, that I felt any surprise, and I
must own that when this took place, I was not a little astonished.
I endeavored to detach, with the point of a needle, one or two of
them that died, and 1 was obliged to wait patiently for a few days
longer, when they separated themselves from the stone, and moved
about at pleasure, although, they had been for sometime after birth
apparently averse to motion. In the course of a few weeks, about
a hundred of them made their appearance on the stone. I observed
that at first each of them fixed itself for a considerable time in one
spot, appearing, as far as I could judge, to feed by suction ; but
when a ray of light from the sun was directed upon it, it seemed
disturbed, and removed itself to the shaded part of the stone. Out
of a hundred insects not above five or six were born on the south
side of the stone. 1 examined some of them with the microscope,
and observed that the smaller ones appeared to have only six legs,
but the larger ones eight."
Mr. Crosse, concludes, " 1st. I have not observed a formation of
the insect, except on a moist and electrified surface, or under an
electrified fluid. By this I do not mean to assert that electricity
has any thing to do with their birth, as I have not made a sufficient
number of experiments to prove or disprove it.
" 2d. These insects do not appear to have originated from others
similar to themselves, as they are formed in all cases with access
of moisture, and in some cases two inches below the surface of the
fluid in which they were born ; and if a full grown and perfect in-
sect be let fall into any fluid, it is infallibly drowned.
" 3d. I believe they live for many weeks ; occasionally 1 have
found them dead in groups, apparently from want of food.*
" P. S. —Since writing the above account, I have obtained the in-
sects on a bare platina wire plunged into fluo-silicic acid, one inch
below the surface of the fluid at the negative pole of a small battery
of two inch plates in cells filled with water. This is a somewhat
singular fluid for these insects to breed in who seem to have a
* These interesting experiments have not yet been successfully
repeated.
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 119
flinty taste, although, they are by no means confined to siliceous
fluids."
The Rev. Mr. Townsend, iu his " Facts in Mesmerism,"
page 330, says
:
" I think, then, at present, that the most striking fact of which
I have heard, relative to the identity of the nervous and electric
agencies, is the discovery of Desmoulins, that the transmission of
sensation and motion is made by the surface of the spinal marrow,
and not by its central parts. This is exactly parallel to the action
of electricity, which is developed only, and transmitted, along the
surfaces of bodies. That nerves really do conduct a matter, simi-
lar, at least, to the electric, has been also proved by the fact, that
a magnet, held between the two sections of a recently divided
nerve, was observed to be deflected, as by an electric current.
" But the kind of electricity which is in the human frame, is,
probably, a modification of the original principle. In many parti-
culars it bears more resemblance to galvanism, and it is really ascer-
tained, by experiments on dead animals, that the nervous fibre has
a property of being galvanically affected, which (though varying, of
course, like other properties, with the condition of the substance
in which it resides) may be called inherent. Some most interest-
ing specimens, by Dr. Elliotson, in which patients, by a re-enforce-
ment of mesmeric pOwer, were shown capable of swinging round
large weights, impossible to be even lifted by them in their ordinary
condition, prove again the intimate connection between the mes-
meric medium and the muscular force, which, as every one knows,
is dependent on the state of the nerves, and by them conducted
from the brain. If personal evidence may be allowed to have im-
portance, I may add, that I am of an electric temperament; so
much so, that long ago, when a child, I used to amaze and even
alarm my young companions, by combing my hair before them in
the dark, and exhibiting to them the electric coruscations. Of
course, also, this phenomenon takes place most remarkably in a
dry. and, therefore, non-conducting atmosphere. Now, between
this electrical endowment and whatever mesmeric properties I may
possess, there is a perfect relationship and parallelism. Whatever
state of the atmosphere tends to carry off electricity from the body,
120 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
hinders in so far my capacity for mesmerizing; and whatever state
of the atmosphere tends to accumulate and insulate electricity in
the body, promotes greatly the power and facility with which I
influence others mesmerically.
"My feelings of bodily health also vary with the plus or minus
of electricity; and, perhaps, did persons oftener attend to such
things, a similar phenomenon might not uncommonly be remarked.
This, at least, we may admit, that the welfare of the human body
depends on the equilibrium or proper distribution of its forces, and
that the electric is one of these, just as much as heat or oxygen.
The mesmeric force has, more than any other, been shown to be
inherent in man; and, taking all the above facts into consideration,
it is by no means a strained conclusion that it actually is that par-
ticular modification of electricity which is appropriate to the hu-
man constitution. When, then, after having mesmerized a person,
I have a peculiar feeling of loss of strength and general uneasi-
ness, which can by no means be traced to the usual causes, I am
compelled to consider this as a proof that I have suffered by a tem-
porary destruction of equilibrium in that medium wherewith I
have charged another person; that medium, namely, which we
have agreed to call mesmeric. That which greatly adds to the
presumption is the fact that there is gain in the patient as there is
loss in the mesmerizer. The tendency of mesmeric influence to
restore equilibrium to the bodily forces is manifest. Under its ben-
eficial action 1 have seen headaches cured, fatigue dissipated, and
trifling bodily ailments removed in a short time."
Muller, the celebrated physiologist, says,
—
" The stimulus of galvanism excites, in all the organs of sense,
different sensations in each organ, namely, the sensation proper to
it. In the eye, a feeble galvanic current excites the special sensa-
tion of the optic nerve, namely, that of light. In the auditory nerve,
electricity produces the sensation of sound. It has not, at present,
been much observed, whether peculiar smells are produced by the
application of galvanism to the organs of smell. Ritter, however,
has perceived them; and it is a known fact, that the electricity ex-
cited by friction, gives rise to the smell of phosphorous."
" A steel needle, plunged into a nerve, becomes magnetic ; and
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 121
on being withdrawn, it is found to have the power of attracting
light substances.
" Muller affirms, that efficient galvanic piles may be formed from
organic animal substances, without the use of metals. Wienholn
states that he has seen sparks obtained by bringing the divided
ends of two nerves together. The electrical properties of the tor
pedo, and a species of eel, are also well known. The gymnotus
for instance, it would seem, possesses a complete galvanic battery
Two troughs are found on each side of the spine, separated from
each other by a ligament extending the whole length of the fish
and the resemblance of this apparatus to the galvanic pile, is cer-
tainly very remarkable."
—
Pathetism.
" The rapidity, with which sensation and volition are communi-
cated along the nerves, could not fail to suggest a resemblance to
the mode in which the electric and galvanic fluids fly along con-
ducting wires. Yet the great support of the opinion was in the ex-
periments instituted by Dr. Wilson Philip and others, from which
it appeared, that if the nerve proceeding to a part be destroyed,
and the secretion, which ordinarily takes place in the part, be thus
arrested, the secretion may be restored by causing the galvanic
fluid to pass from one divided extremity of the nerve to the
other.
" The experiments, connected with secretion, will be noticed
more at length hereafter. It will likewise be shown, that in the
effect of galvanism upon the muscles, there is the same analogy ;
—
that the muscles may be made to contract for a length of time after
the death of the animal, even when a limb has been removed from
the body, on the application of the galvanic stimulus ; and compar-
ative anatomy exhibits to us great development of nervous struc-
ture in those^ electrical animals, which surprise us by the intensity
of the electric shocks they are capable of communicating.
" Physiologists of the present day generally, we think, accord
with the electrical hypothesis. The late Dr. Young, so celebrated
for his knowledge in numerous departments of science, adopted it
prior to the interesting experiments of Dr. Philip ; and Mr. Aber-
nethy, whilst he is strongly opposing the doctrines of materialism,
goes so far as to consider some subtile fluid, not merely as the
agent of nervous transmission, but as forming the essence of life
itself. Dr. Bostock, however, has remarked, that before the elec-
6*
122 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
trie hypothesis can be considered proved, two points must be de-
monstrated ; first, that every function of the nervous system may
be performed by the substitution of electricity for the action of the
nerves ; and secondly, that all the nerves admit of this substitution.
This is true, as concerns the belief in the identity of the nervous
and electrical fluids ; but we have, even now, evidence sufficient
to show their similarity, and that we are justified in considering
the nervous fluid as electroid or galvanoid in its nature, emanating
from the brain by some action unknown to us, and distributed to
the different parts of the system to supply the expenditure, which
must be constantly going on."
—
Dunglison's Physiology, p. 87.
The idea that the will of maa can direct Etherium or elec-
tricity in such a manner as to produce Etheropathy or mes-
merism, has been considered as inconsistent with the nature
of electricity and also of the will; but in the case of the
electric eel we have an instance of the will discharging the
electric fluid wT
ith such force as to paralyze the limbs of an-
imals at a great distance, and even of their producing death
by this power. Many very honest persons argue that the
Deity would never bestow upon man such a wonderful pow-
er as that which some experiments in Etheropathy indicate
;
but the power possessed by the gymnotus is far greater than
that possessed by man. The most wonderful feats that any
mesmerizer ever pretended to perform are unequal to those
which are habitually and instinctively performed by one of
the very lowest and least intellectual of the vertebrated an-
imals. Many objections which are urged against the doc-
trines which I am advancing are entirely put to rest by the
simple facts connected with the natural history of these in-
teresting animals. Here we see electricity actually gener-
ated in the animal body, accumulated in an insulated reser-
voir, the outlet of which is perfectly under the control of the
will, so that the fluid can be reserved or expended at plea-
sure. We see the intellect directing the electric bolt with
all the precision of an accomplished engineer, and projecting
it with the most fatal effect upon its adversary. Like a
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 123
skillful etherean operator or mesmerizer he ascertains the
degree of susceptibility which is possessed by different
bodies with which he comes in contact, so as not to exhaust
his energies upon non-conductors. In short you see in one
of the most stupid and insignificant animals, a realization of
all the fabled powers of Olympian Jove. The exploits of
Mesmer, Peysegur, or Elliotson sink into mere trifles com-
pared with those of the electric eel ; and yet you will hear
gentlemen who are renowned throughout the wide world for
" learned ignorance" talk in the most oracular style of the
utter improbability that the Deity would give one of his
creatures such power over another. The following is from
Rees' Encyclopedia :
" From the observations of Condamine and others, engaged about
the same time in a series of experiments on the electric properties
of the electricus gymnotus, it is clearly demonstrated that the pow-
er of this animal consists in a kind of genuine electricity, being
equally capable of being conducted or intercepted by the same
means as electricity. Thus, on touching the fish with the fingers,
the same sensation is perceived as on touching the charged vial.
" This electric faculty of the gymnotus, is apparently designed
by nature to assist in the support of its existence ; the smaller
fishes and other animals which happen to approach it, being in-
stantly struck motionless, and dropping to the bottom of the water,
become an easy prey. The shock this fish is capable of exerting,
is so great as to deprive almost of sense and motion those who are
exposed to its influence, and is therefore much dreaded by those
who bathe in the rivers it inhabits. Some writers affirm, even,
that the violence of the shock given by those of a larger size, is so
great as to occasion instant death. Their average length is about
three feet, but they are sometimes found in the river Surinam up-
wards of twenty feet in length ; and the shock of one of these is
said to prove instant death to the person who receives it. Electri-
cal fishes are capable of repeating the shocks very frequently in a
short space of time.
" Mr. J no. Wash, in a letter to Dr. Franklin, says, that he reck-
oned fifty .->hock.-3 in a minute and a half, given by a torpedo; and
124 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
upon another occasion, he calculated that one hundred were deliv-
ered in about five minutes. Much of the force of the shock depends
upon the natural strength and vigor of the animal at the moment
of the experiment. It is said to have very little electric power in
the winter. It is much diminished if the fish remain for any time
out of water. The shocks do not appear to be lessened in strength
by repetition, unless the animal be otherwise exhausted. When
the torpedo administers a shock, it is always observed to depress
the eyes, and to make some movements of the lateral fins. The
other electric fishes do not accompany these shocks by any visible
muscular effort. However strong the shock of fishes may be, it
has never been seen to produce the least noise nor luminous appear-
ance—and it will not pass through the smallest portion of air; it
must, therefore, be greatly deficient in intensity. The electricity
of fishes has not the power of attracting floating substances.
When a person is insulated, and touches the fish, he receives a shock
as at other times, but gives no appearance of excess of electricity,
however long he may keep up his communication with the animal.
A Leyden phial also being put into contact with an electric eel,
never becomes charged. It would appear that the electric phe-
From the Penny Cyclopaedia
:
" When the battery is applied to a nerve of a person recently dead,
and the circuit is completed, several violent motions ensue, de-
pendent on the relative position of the nerve and muscle ; thus, when
the wire communicates with the phrenic nerve, the muscles of respira-
tion are set in motion ; when from the ulnar nerve to the spinal mar-
row is included in the circuit, the fingers are set in quick motion and
so on. Fishes are still more susceptible of this electric action than ani-
mals, and strong convulsive motions will be exhibited by a live floun-
der placed on a zinc dish and having a piece of copper or silver on it9
back, as soon as the two metals come in contact : similar effects take
place with leeches, worms and amphibious animals.
" It was thought by Volta that the involuntary muscles, such as the
heart, could not be thus excited, but experiment has decided against
him.
" When the secretion was suspended by cutting the eighth pair of
nerves, Dr. Philip and several French anatomists have restored it by
establishing a galvanic current through the divided part of the nerves
next the stomach.
" Intermittent currents have been employed in the experiments of
Masson, Peltier and Delarive. To effect this, M. Masson used a
toothed wheel rotating by a cord round it; its axis, supporter and
itself being all metallic; a communication is formed between this
wheel and a battery in the form of a helix: the object of the teeth of
NATURE OF ETHERIUM. 125
nomena of fishes are produced in a manner different from every
species of physical electricity.* All experimentalists, agree that
they regulate the strength, and frequency of the shocks at
pleasure.
" Dr. Williamson, relates, that some small fishes heing thrown
into the same water where an electric eel was swimming, it imme-
diately killed and swallowed them, but a larger fish being thrown
in, it was also killed, although, it was too large for the eel to swal-
low ; another fish was thrown into the water, at some distance
from the eel, it swam up to the fish, but presently turned away,
without offering it any violence; after some time it returned,
the wheel is occasionally to suspend the action of the current by
making the connecting rod of too great a length ; hence, when the
wheel is made to revolve, the galvanic current acts and is suspended
alternately. By a series of intermitted discharges produced in this
manner, M. Masson had the cruel pleasure of killing a cat.
* " P. Santi Linari drew the electric spark from the gymnotusin the
following manner : —he took a glass tube of the shape of a capital U,
which he partly filled with mercury ; at each end was fixed an iron
wire through a wooden button, and which reached very near the
mercury. The apparatus being fixed with mastic on varnished wood,
the end of the wires were made to touch short platina wires termi-
nated by lamina? of the same metal intended to make a good communi-
cation with the different parts of the electrical fish When the circuit
was formed, a spark visible even in the daylight appeared at the place
where the conductors were interrupted. This experiment he has
repeated in different forms." (Biblioth. Univ. de Geneve.)
" Galvanism, in its action on the human system, resembles electricity,
yet it is distinguished by certain peculiarities. In its application it
can be rendered more continuous and uniform, and may, like elec-
tricity, be administered either in shocks, or in a regular flow of gal-
vanic influence through the body. It possesses more power over the
chemical actions of the body than electricity, and promotes more com-
pletely those processes of decomposition and recomposition which take
place in the living frame, as well as the functions of organic life, than
common electricity. But the chief distinction consists in the differ-
ence of action of the two poles. Each pole excites a peculiar pheno-
mena in the organs to which it is applied. This difference is less per-
ceptible when mere shocks are administered, than when a continuous
stream of galvanic influence is transmitted from one point to another of
the body. The positive pole more particularly influences the muscular
and vascular system, while the negative pole more especially affects
the nervous system. At the positive pole there is felt the shock,
strong movements, a feeling of concentration and contraction, increased
warmth and mobility of the part, with gradual diminution of the
secretion and sensibility. At the negative pole the pain and sensibility
are stronger and more acute, the organ expands, is more irritable, while
126 NATURE OF ETHERIUM.
when, seeming to view it for a few seconds, it gave the fish a
shock, upon which it instantly turned up its belly and continued
motionless. A third fish was thrown into the water, to which
the eel gave such a shock, that it turned on its side, but continued
to give signs of life ; the eel seeming to observe this, as it was
turning away, immediately returned and struck it quite mo-
tionless."
the muscular action and mobility are lessened. The difference of their
action on the secreting powers is best seen by applying the respective
poles to a surface which has been recently deprived of its cuticle, such
as where a blister has been. The positive pole changes the serous
secretion into that of lymph, which at last becomes thready; the part
dries and is inflamed. The negative pole causes an abundant secretion
of a dark-colored, highly acrid *fluid, which excoriates the skin over
which it flows, the part also experiences an enduring irritation. Atonic
swellings are rendered harder, should they not become inflamed by the
positive pole, while frequently by the negative pole they are dispersed
and resolved. Notwithstanding the possession of such powerful
properties, galvanism has not produced so valuable results in medicine
as might have been anticipated. This comparative failure is, no doubt,
to be attributed to errors in the mode of applying it. It may be proper
however to remark, that it was urgently recommended during the
prevalence of the Asiatic cholera, but the results were not satisfactory.
Like many other powerful agents, it was not used till a very late stage
in the complaint, when recovery was almost impossible. It is also to
be doubted whether galvanism be at all applicable to cholera, since it
appears that the continued application of it causes death, by inducing
inflammation of the lungs, in cases of animals where the eighth pair of
nerves have been divided, more speedily than where the same nerves
have been divided in animals to which the galvanic power was not ap-
plied as a substitute for the nervous. Inflammation is the invariable
consequence of the application of the positive pole ; while the negative
pole would cause a flow of acrid secretion which could not benefit the
patient. The identity of electricity, whether common or galvanic,
with the nervous power, is much to be questioned."
SECTION IV
OXYGEN.
Having shown the nature of Etherium, I proceed to in-
quire how its motion is generated in the human constitution,
through the agency of oxygen.
In 1774, Dr. Priestly discovered that the atmospheric air
is composed of two different substances-—one of which has
since received the name of oxygen ; and it has been found
to perform a more important part in chemical combinations
than any other ponderable substance with which we are ac-
quainted. The burning of fuel and other substances, is
caused by the combination of oxygen with some of their
component elements. The rusting and tarnishing of metals
is caused by their surfaces forming a chemical union with
oxygen. Most of the substances which are commonly call-
ed earths, are, in reality, but a combination of oxygen with
some metal ; this is true of soda, potash, lime, magnesia,
etc. Water is a combination of oxygen with hydrogen.
Paints are all composed of some metal, combined with
oxygen. The common galvanic battery derives its
power from the union of oxygen with its metallic plates.
The blood of all animals is stimulating and nourishing
in proportion to the amount of oxygen which it con-
tains—no animal can live a moment without oxygen : and,
finally, the number and force—that is, the quantity—of ani-
mal motions, is in proportion to the amount of oxygen
which they require. The motions of animals are undoubt-
edly produced by the agency of Etherium ; this is the set-
128 OXYGEN.
tied opinion of those physiologists who are most capable,
from their knowledge and experience, of forming a correct
j udgment upon this subject. It is also admitted, that oxygen
is directly related to animal motions. Now the question to
be determined is, what relation has oxygen to Etherium ?
and what relation has it to the animal motions which Etheri-
um produces ?
The following seems to me the most reasonable explana-
tion, and one which will receive the approbation of philo-
sophic minds
:
Every chemical change or combination is accompanied
with a motion of Etherium, whether we perceive it or not.
Some motions, thus produced, are more powerful than others
;
and the more powerful neutralize the weaker, or cause them
to conform. The motions of animals are produced in a
manner so very analogous to those produced by galvanism,
as to excite a suspicion in the minds of all scientific men
that they are produced in a similar manner in both cases.
We examine to see what there is in common, and the first
and must striking fact that arrests our attention, in both ope-
rations, is, the agency of oxygen. In both instances, we
find oxygen drawn from the atmosphere to combine with a
liquid ; in both instances the liquid comes in contact with
a substance which has a greater affinity for oxygen ; this
substance, whatever it may be, unites with the oxygen and
forms an oxide ; instantly an invisible agent, which I call
Etherium, is evolved, (or, rather, amotion of Etherium pro-
duced,) which in one case is adapted to move an iron ma-
chine, and in the other, a muscular machine.
The conclusion is irresistible, that oxygen, by its chemi-„
cal combinations, produces the motions of Etherium in both
machines.
It is the office of the stomach to furnish the materials of
nourishment, (carbon and hydrogen,) and of the lungs to
furnish oxygen, the material of motion. This is the reason
OXYGEN. 129
why vegetables, which have little or no occasion to move,
use so little oxygen ; and why animals use an amount of
oxygen exactly in proportion to their motions. It is the
reason why the predominance of the digestive functions
causes fat (which is composed of carbon and hydrogen) to
accumulate ; while the preponderance of the lungs and
brain is generally accompanied with leanness ; as the fat
(carbon and hydrogen) is used up in combining with oxygen
to produce motion.
This explains why sleep is useful, as it enables fat to
accumulate for the supply of the oxygen needed to sustain
motion when awake.
During sleep there is just oxygen enough furnished to
supply motion to the involuntary organs ; during waking,
enough to supply both voluntary and involuntary. Oxygen
is used immediately after it is received ; carbon and hydro-
gen may (in the form of fat) be reserved until needed.
There is generally more carbon and hydrogen secreted than
used during sleep, and the surplus is reserved to be used
while awake.
The reason why sleep is necessary, is, because we do
not digest and secrete fast enough to supply carbon and hy-
drogen for the oxygen which it would require to move
voluntary and involuntary organs twenty-four hours.
The conclusion is, that the quantity of motion of Ethe-
rium generated in a man, is in proportion to the quantity of
oxygen which combines with his food ; and the quantity of
oxygon which combines with food in a given time, depends
upon the size and perfection of the lungs and stomach, the
proportion which they, bear to each other, and the expendi-
ture of material made in producing voluntary and involun-
tary motion.
There are many other modes by which Etherium may be
set in motion without the agency of oxygen, but 1 contend
that this is the use to which respired oxygen is put in the
animal system.
SECTION V
SLEEP.
NEW PHILOSOPHY OF ORDINARY SLEEP.
Vegetables sleep incessantly, all their actions being in-
voluntary.* The motions of animals are divided into volun-
tary and involuntary. When the animal is performing
involuntary motions only, he is said to be asleep. When
he is performing voluntary motions he is awake. There is
a very great difference among animals in regard to the time
which they spend in sleep ; there is also a difference in this
respect among men ; and a difference in the same individual
at different periods of life, and in different states of health.
The only theories of sleep which have ever been pro-
posed that I know of, are founded upon the idea that sleep
is necessary to restore to the body the substance which it
loses by its operations during the waking period, and to
give the organs an opportunity to rest. It is spoken of as
" Tired nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep."
This is the view supported, or rather assumed, by Mr.
McNish, in his "Philosophy of Sleep ;" and it is maintained
* Some have asserted that vegetables sleep, because during night
they suspend some of their functions ; but this cannot properly be con-
sidered analogous to the sleep of animals unless we admit vegetables to
be conscious beings, and consider the parts which during night sus-
pend their functions as voluntary organs. That which seems to re-
semble sleep in vegetables is owing to the withdrawal of the stimulus
which during the day they received from the sun.
SLEEP. 131
by Prof. Liebig in his excellent work on " Animal Chemis-
try." After making an accurate calculation of the amount
of force which an adult man expends in a day, he says :
" This supply offorce is furnished in a seven hour's sleep."
Again he says :
" The adult man sleeps seven hours, and wakes seventeen
hours ; consequently, if the equilibrium be restored in twenty-four
hours, the mechanical effects (muscular motions) produced in
seventeen hours must be equal to the effects produced during seven
hours in the formation of new parts." " If in the adult man the
consumption of force for mechanical purposes, in twenty-four
hours, be augmented beyond the amount restorable in seven hours
of sleep, then, if the equilibrium is to be restored, less force, in
the same proportion, must be expended in mechanical effects in the
next twenty-four hours. If this be not done, the mass of the
body decreases, and the state characteristic of old age more or less
decidedly supervenes."
Having thus fairly stated the received doctrine on this
subject, I will now briefly give my own views, which are
essentially different.
I consider the cause of sleep to be the predominant influ-
ence of the involuntary system over the voluntary, which
enables the involuntary system to monopolize all the avail-
able force, and appropriate it to its own purposes ; leaving
the voluntary system without the means of sustaining its
operations, it pauses of course ; —this is sleep, and its
cause. The force which continues both systems in action,
is generated by the combination of carbon and hydrogen,
with oxygen. Oxygen is continually furnished in a suffi-
cient quantity, but the carbon and hydrogen is not produced
in a proper state and proper place to combine with oxygen,
and produce force with sufficient rapidity to supply the con-
stant demands which voluntary and involuntary systems
would both make upon it, if they should both keep active
132 SLEEP.
incessantly. This deficiency is compensated by sleep ; not
as McNish and Liebig suppose, because sleep is necessary
to restore the equilibrium of substance ; for sleep is not ne-
cessary for this purpose. There is a restoration continually
going on when we are awake, but it does not go on fast
enough to keep pace with the waste ; and when the reser-
voir is exhausted to a certain point, the struggle commences
between the two systems ; a struggle in which the involun-
tary system always triumphs sooner or later. If the brain
is greatly excited, it maintains the contest longer ; but if all
is quiet, monotonous and peaceful, while the stomach is
excited by food easy of digestion, the involuntary system
easily prevails over its antagonist, the brain, inducts it and
puts it to sleep.
In harmony with this theory, we find that {ceteris paribus)
those who digest their food with great rapidity, and whose
secretions are rapid, of course, sleep but little ; while those
who digest and secrete very slowly, sleep much. This pro-
position must be understood with the proper qualifications
of ceteris paribus, or all else equal ; for there are other facts
which must be taken into the account, and some of them of
much importance. One is, the size of the brain compared
with the body. When the brain is large in proportion to the
rest of the body, all else equal, there is a greater tendency
to keep awake ; and when the brain is small, there is a
greater tendency to sleep. Another modifying circumstance,
is, the number of different powers of mind possessed by the
individual; for some animals possess a greater number of
mental organs than others. Another circumstance, is, the
relative size of the higher organs of the brain compared with
the lower, as the higher organs prevent sleep by producing
reflection. Now, take an instance for illustration, where
all the conditions are favorable to wakefulness : 1. When
the food is such (meat) as to be rapidly and easily digest-
ed ; 2. When the lungs are very large, so as to demand
SLEEP. 133
rapid digestion ; 3. Where the brain is large compared with
the rest of the body ; 4. Where the number of the mental
organs, as in man, is greater than in other animals ; and,
5. Where the higher organs are much larger, in proportion,
than the lower. If my theory is correct, such a person will
sleep but little. On the contrary, let all the conditions just
stated be reversed, and the individual will sleep much from
unavoidable necessity. The basis of Mr. Liebig's error
(if I may venture respectfully to speak of the error of a very
justly distinguished man) consists, as I apprehend, in as-
suming that, to use his own language
—
" A living part cannot increase in volume at the same moment
in which a portion of it loses the vital condition, and is expelled
from the organ in the form of a lifeless compound ; on the con-
trary, it must diminish." " And only from the period at which
the cause of waste ceases to operate, can the capacity of growth be
manifested." " And, if the original equilibrium is to be restored,
we must suppose that, during sleep, an amount of force is accumu-
lated in the form of living tissue, exactly equal to that which was
consumed in voluntary and involuntary motion during the preced-
ing waking period."
To annihilate this doctrine, it is only necessary to carry it
out to its consequences ; for, if it is true that a part cannot
grow until the cause of waste ceases to operate, then, the
heart and all the involuntary organs, are unable to manifest
their capacity of growth at any time during life. But we
know that they do grow, and we know that they continually
waste, and yet they do " increase in volume at the same mo-
ment in which a portion of them loses the vital condition, fyc.
What we know of the involuntary organs in this respect, we
have a right to assume of the voluntary ; that is, that they
are capable of growing while they are in operation, and
that sleep is not therefore necessary to the continuation of
life, excepting so far as it economizes force.
134 SLEEP.
Again, Mr. Liebig's assumption is not true, that, all else
equal,
—
" The mechanical force available for work, is directly propor-
tional to the number of hours' sleep."
It would, doubtless, be true, if the restoration of substance
and the acquisition of force could only take place during
sleep ; but I have already shown that this is not true, and
consequently, the assumption of a regular proportion of
force to sleep is also without basis. It is at war with facts.
Birds, that sleep less than any other animals, surpass all ani-
mals in the amount and velocity of their motions. In pro-
portion to their size they certainly expend more force in
voluntary motions than any other animals ; and yet, accord-
ing to Mr. Liebig, they accumulate less, because they sleep
less. It cannot be said that they sleep so much sounder
than other animals, that they are therefore enabled to accu-
mulate enough in their brief sleep to support their long con-
tinued and vigorous motions, for their sleep is not only brief,
but very light and imperfect. They are so easily waked that
it seems doubtful whether they are ever entirely asleep.
According to my theory it is easy to understand that an
animal of this kind could entirely dispense with sleep : I do
not doubt that some birds might be kept awake continually.
It is said, indeed, that fishes never sleep, and I can readily
believe it ; for with their rapid digestion and little expendi-
ture of force, balanced as they are in the water and sustained
by the gravity of their native element so as to need but little
exertion to propel themselves about, there is little occasion
for sleep if my views are correct ; but, according to Mr.
Liebig, they ought to sleep during the whole time that they
are growing ; and the amount of their sleep ought to be
proportional to the amount of growth added to the amount
of substance expended in all their motions ; this is certainly
not true, and, therefore, Mr. Liebig is certainly and obvi-
SLEEP. 135
ously wrong on this point, notwithstanding the genius which
he has exhibited in so many other departments of inquiry.
As I propose to illustrate this interesting subject more in
detail on some future occasion, I will not pursue it further
in this work. It seems, then, that the immediate cause of
sleep is that the involuntary system actually inducts or
mesmerizes the brain ; at certain regularly returning periods,
monopolizes, for its own use, all the force then on hand,
and proceeds to accumulate substance until the stimulus of
the external world prevails and inducts the external senses
and brain sufficiently to produce waking.
The apparent design of the Creator in ordaining sleep, is
to prevent the unnecessary expenditure of force. Accord-
ingly, those animals, or those parts of animals, whose cir-
cumstances require continual action, never sleep. To illus-
trate : horses sleep standing, rabbits with their eyes open
—
it is said that fishes never sleep, and we know that the heart
never sleeps.
SECTION VI
THE ORGAN OF C ON S C I OU N E S S .
It is impossible to avoid the conclusion, that there is a
central organ of Consciousness in the brain, where all the
other organs of mind concentrate their forces, where their
relative influence is appreciated, and their relative claims to
superiority weighed and allowed.—An organ of Conscious-
ness, to which all the other organs of the brain, and all the
various external organs of sensation are merely auxiliaries.
All the organs of the brain which are concerned in thought
and feeling, converge to this grand centre, and all the nerves
of voluntary motion diverge from it.
The organ of Consciousness is located in the medulla ob-
longata—this is the point where sensation terminates, and
volition commences—this is the seat of Consciousness. The
proof is derived from experiment ; for, if the brain above
and the spinal cord below, are both destroyed, conscious-
ness still continues, provided the medulla oblongata and its
nerves are uninjured ; but if the oblongata is destroyed, con-
sciousness is also destroyed. This is conclusive and un-
answerable proof. The precise minute point where Con-
sciousness holds its mysterious throne, whether it is exactly
at the place where the pneumogastric nerve is inserted, or the
twentieth or the third part of an inch above it, is not yet ascer-
tained, nor is it material ; it is certain that it is not below the
place where that nerve is inserted ; it is certain that it is not an
inch above. This is what we know, and all we know, of the
location of Consciousness—the sanctorum of the mind. There
CONSCIOUSNESS. 137
is other evidence which confirms this, but none which so
decidedly settle the question. Thus, we find that the prin-
cipal fibres of the brain converge to this point, and we find
all the nerves of sensation and of voluntary motion in direct
communication with it. Its intermmediate position between
the brain and spinal cord, the fact that it is possessed by all
animals of the vertebrated class, the fact that some animals
have more and others less phreno-organs superadded to the
oblongata—but none are without this important part—all
conspire to sustain and illustrate the decisive experiments by
which this is proved to be the location of the organ of Con-
sciousness.
" The spinal marrow is sensible along the whole of its posterior
column, but it also acts only as a conductor of the impression.
Flourens destroyed the spinal cord from below, by slicing it away,
and he found that sensibility was gradually extinguished in the
parts corresponding to the destroyed medulla, but that the parts
situated above evidently continued to feel. Perception therefore
occurs in the encephalon ; and not in the whole but in some of its
parts. Many physiologists, amongst whom may be mentioned
Haller, Lorry, Rolando and Flourens, have sliced away the brain,
and found that the sensations continued until the knife reached the
level of the corpora quadrigemina ; and again it has been found,
that if the spinal cord be sliced away from below upwards, the
sensations persist until we reach the medulla oblongata. It is,
then, in the medulla oblongata that we must place the cerebral or-
gans of the senses, and it is with this part of the cephalo-spinal
axis, that the nerves of the senses are found to communicate.
" Mr. Lawrence saw a child with no more encephalon than a
bulb, which was a continuation for about an inch above the fora-
men magnum of ihe medulla spinalis, and with which all the
nerves from the fifth to the ninth pair were connected, The child's
breathing and temperature were natural ; it took food, and at first
moved very briskly. It lived four day-."
—
Dunglison's Physiology,
p. 83.
7
138 THE ORGAN OF
The location of Consciousness is not, in itself, a very im-
portant or essential circumstance, provided it be admitted
that there is such an organ, and that it has a location some-
where in the brain ; the philosophy founded upon Conscious-
ness would be the same if its location were utterly unknown.
Dr. Reid, the greatest of the Scotch philosophers, -advo-
cated the doctrine that Consciousness is a distinct power of
the mind, but did not attempt to give it a local habitation.
Aristotle and the ancient philosophers considered the brain
as the sensoiium, .but did not designate any particular portion
as especially entitled to that name. Descartes considered
the pineal gland as the seat of the soul. Darwin and many
modern physiologists use the term sensorium to signify the
seat of the mind, wherever it may be. The researches and
experiments of the anatomists of France and Italy, which
have been made within the last hundred years upon living
animals, with a design of ascertaining the offices which are
performed by different portions of the brain, have been very
numerous, and have cost much labor, and excited much
discussion. Those experiments have, however, been of but
little use, except so far as relates to the seat of Conscious-
ness. They demonstrated that life is independent of the -
brain ; that respiration and volition is dependent upon the
brain ; that the medulla oblongata is the centre of volition
and sensation ; and that the brain, all excepting the medulla
oblongata, may be taken away, and respiration and volition
and the signs of Consciousness remain. These experiments
seemed to be at war with the doctrines of Gall and Spurz-
heim, and their fairness was consequently denied by the ad-
vocates of phrenology ; none of them have considered the
experiments as affording evidence of the truth of phrenology,
though in reality they do so, if the doctrines which I have
advanced respecting Consciousness, are admitted to be
correct.
All the phrenological writers seem to have entertained
CONSCIOUSNESS. 139
the most vague notions concerning Consciousness. Both
Spurzheim and Combe, and indeed all other phrenologians,
deny the existence of Consciousness as a separate power of
the mind. They seemed to have a notion that each mental
power has a Consciousness of its own, in some way, which
they did not attempt to define, and probably did not them-
selves clearly comprehend. The opponents of phrenology
have not failed to avail themselves of this weak point in
the science. The}' have triumphantly demanded, " What
constitutes the unity of mind—the unity of Consciousness in
our system of phreno-philosophy V They have justly cha-
racterized the science as a federal republic without a com-
mon executive —a circumference without a centre ; and
though they were inclined to admit that phrenology has
added some useful facts to our stock of knowledge on this
subject, it is not itself entitled, in their opinion, to the
claims which its friends set up for it, to be considered as a
systematic science.* There was, indeed, but too much truth
in this criticism, and I hope that this introduction of the
organ of Consciousness will in a great measure obviate not
only this difficulty, but many others which previously lay
in the way of the metaphysicians. The error of Spurzheim
on this point, which was adopted by Combe and other fol-
lowers of that illustrious man, may be traced in all his works,
and in the works of all his disciples. Spurzheim divided
the powers of the mind into feelings and intellectual facul-
ties. He reckoned twenty different organs offeelings, besides
fifteen thinking faculties. He and Combe also speak repeat-
edly of these different powers, as operating sometimes in
harmony, and sometimes in antagonism ; but did not seem
to think it necessary to point out the common ground upon
which their harmony or antagonism is displayed, and
without which it is impossible that it can be displayed at all.
* See Henry's History of Philosophy, article Cabanis,
140 THE ORGAN OF
If we say that Consciousness is dependant upon a material
organ, it may be objected that it is then compound in its
material constitution, and consequently liable, after death,
to be decomposed, and, of course, its identity annihilated. I
answer that the organ of Consciousness is not necessarily
compound. The essential element of the organ may, for
aught we know, be an ultimate and indivisible atom of
matter, which has the inherent property of being conscious,
when placed in proper relations to the senses and other
organs, so as to have this property excited. An indivisible,
indestructible atom of matter, is immortal in its existence and
its identity ; and if it is capable of Consciousness, when
placed in proper circumstances, then Consciousness is im-
mortal, though it may remain dormant for ages for want of
the proper circumstances to excite it. There are some
reasons for suspecting that every atom of matter in exist-
ence is capable of Consciousness, when placed in the cir-
cumstances and conditions favorable to its development.*
It is quite certain that Consciousness can exist, in all its
power of thought and feeling, in a particle of matter so ex-
ceedingly minute, that the most perfect microscope cannot
perceive it. This is demonstrated by the phenomena pre-
sented by that wonderful order of animals, the Infusoria,
some of which, according to an accurate and mathematical
measurement by Ehrenberg and Dr. Prichard,are so diminu-
tive that twenty-five thousand of them can stand in a row
upon a line which is less than an inch in length, and eigbt
"Locke tells of a man who recollected distinctly that his conscious
principle, or soul, was once the soul of Socrates. Now if conscious-
ness depends upon an ultimate material particle, it is not impossible
thai I lie very identical consciousness which is now possessed by Queen
>ria was once possessed by Queen Maud; and it may be that if
Her Majesty will resolutely set to work, she may be able to recollect
the circumstance. If this principle be admitted, it maybe also that
the future state, condition, and associations of Consciousness, will
be dependant upon the aptitudes and habits, the moral and phy-
sical sympathies and antipathies which it has acquired in its past and
present state—but we can no longer touch bottom.
CONSCIOUSNESS. 141
millions can occupy less space than a mustard seed. Now,
when we reflect that each of these animals has limbs, mouth,
organs of digestion*, an involuntary and voluntary system,
With a central Consciousness—how large a space can we
suppose the central Consciousness occupies ? That it exists
in them, as in us, no one will deny ; it is also plain that
it does not occupy the whole of the body in them any
more than it does in us ; for in their case, as in ours, a limb
may be destroyed and yet Consciousness remain. In them,
as in us and all animals, it occupies a central position, distinct
in its nature and function from, yet in connection with, all
the voluntary organs. Now, it can be easily demonstrated
that Consciousness cannot possibly occupy this central posi-
tion in relation to the other organs of the animal, with-
out being limited to a space more than two hundred times
smaller than that which the rest of the animal occupies.
As eight millions of the animals occupy less space than a
mustard seed, therefore, sixteen hundred millions of organs
of Consciousness may exist in a space smaller than that filled
by a mustard seed* Surely, after this, no one will cavil
about the organ of Consciousness being supposed to exist in
* Infusoria. This term has been applied to the numerous minute
animals found in water, which are commonly called animalcules.
The invention of the microscope by Hooke, revealed the existence of
myriads of living creatures, whose presence was before unknown; and
this instrument has shown that a drop of water, though it may appear
to the naked eye to be perfectly clear, is perhaps swarming with living
beings. Ehrenberg (whose labors have principally contributed to the
knowledge of the true nature and structure of the infusory animalcules)
has described species which are not larger than from one thousandth to
one two-thousandth of a line (a line is one-twelfth of an inch) in diam-
eter, and which are separated from one another by intervals not greater
than their own size. A cubic inch of water may thus contain more than
eiirht hundred thousand millions of these beings, estimating them only
to occupy one-fourth of its space ; and a single drop (measuring not more
than a line in diameter) placed under the microscope, will be seen to
to hold five hundred millions, an amount perhaps nearly equal to the
whole number of human beings on the surface of the globe.
Distinct organs of digestion may be demonstrated in all the species.
Ehrenberg says, " all true Infusoria, even the smallest monads, are or-
142 THE ORGAN OF
the smallest possible atom of matter, indivisible and inde-
structible. This course of reasoning is useful in teaching
us that the nature of Consciousness is beyond our grasp
;
that we cannot investigate it by the observation of material
bodies ; that we can only know its existence in a general
ganized animal bodies, and distinctly provided with at least a mouth
and internal nutritive apparatus."
Speaking of the wonderful power of the infusorial animals to mul-
tiply by the mysterious process of self-division, Prof. Ehrenberg says:
" The possibility of the multiplying of an individual to a million, in
less than forty-eight hours, was exhibited in them by the mere process
that each single animalcule can divide itself, within one hour, com-
pletely lengthwise or across, and after the lapse of one hour's rest, can
repeat the same thing. The vast effect of this activity, is, that a sin-
gle animalcule, perfectly invisible to the naked eye, can possibly be
increased in four days to 140 billions of independent animalcules.
In the polishing slate of Berlin, about 41,000 millions of these crea-
tures form one cubic inch of stone, as may easily aud pretty accurately
be determined, &c."— Transactions of the Royal Academy ofBerlin,
1S40.
In contrast with these views, it will be interesting to read the fol-
lowing brief extract from Dr. Lardner's Lectures :
" A star of the seventh magnitude can easily be compared with one
of the first, in point of splendor, by the photometer—just as the light
of a sperm candle can be compared with that of a lamp. Sir Johj*
Herschel has compared the splendor of a star of the sixteenth magni-
tude with that of one of the first, and has found that the light of the
latter is equal to three hundred and sixty-two times that of the former.
From this it may be inferred that the distance of a star of the sixteenth
magnitude is such that it would require thousands of years for its light
to reach our system. These considerations present to our minds most
comprehensive views of the economy of the Universe. For if light
requires a thousand years to come from any of these plainly distin-
guishable stars, there can be no doubt that it takes twenty times as
long to come from others ; and what are we to infer from this but that
there are visible objects in the universe which 20,000 years ago exist-
ed as they are now seen. Light left these stars 20,000 years ago, and
has just reached the earth upon which we live. For 20,000 years
past, then, these stars, for aught we know, may not have existed. The
objects we see to-day are not the objects of to-day : the Sirius that we
see to-day is not the Sirius of to-day. The light by which we see it left
that star three years ago, and from that day to this we have known
nothing of it. Into what a singular historical state does this view
throw creation ! Our system, then, exists at an enormous distance
from the nearest of the fixed stars, and look in what direction we may,
the same chasm yawns between us and it."
CONSCIOUSNESS. 143
manner from experience, and its location by experiments
which can only approximate to exactness.
Nor does this investigation shed any light upon the sub-
ject of immortality. If man is necessarily immortal because
he is endowed with an indestructible organ of Consciousness,
then so is every insect and reptile and all the infinite va-
riety of vermin that have ever infested the earth ; and sci-
ence offers as powerful an argument in favor of their im-
mortality as that of man. Of all the investigations of scien-
tific men, none has excited the jealousy of sectarians as
much as the one we have now under consideration ; almost
even* philosopher who has manifested a disposition to ap-
proach the subject fearlessly and examine it with independ-
ence, has had the mad-dog cry raised against him offatalism,
materialism, or heresy. Man}^ of our modern authors have
been so far influenced by this outcry, that they have evi-
dently suppressed their true sentiments and smothered their
conscientious convictions to avoid the relentless persecutions
which arise from bigotry and superstition. The only road
to the favor of this potent and numerous class of tyrants, is
to make a profound mystery of everything relating to mind ;
all explanation or even demonstration is condemned by them
as unpardonable heresy, dangerous to religion, and incon-
sistent with their own narrow views of the holy scriptures.
Nothing has had so injurious an effect upon the fair and
successful investigation of this subject, as even the well-
meant interference of tnese self-appointed theological critics,
and nothing can be more injudicious and misplaced than
their animadversions. The truth is, the subject is not fairly
within their jurisdiction and therefore they have no right to
meddle with it. The immortality of the soul can neither
be proved nor disproved by the demonstrations of natural
science. We may examine the nerves and the brain as
much as we please ; we may prove to a certainty that Con-
sciousness maintains its seat in the very centre of the oblon-
144 THE ORGAN OF
gata ; we may determine the precise, individual, ultimate
atom in which it resides with all its prerogatives, where
it receives its impressions through the senses and sends
forth its mandates through the motor nerves ; we may
prove that it is dependent upon the various phreno-organs,
the currents of Etherium, and their modifications in the
different avenues ; and yet the subject is as far beyond
our comprehension as before—we can discover nothing that
illustrates or illuminates immortality. If all was doubt and
obscurity when we began the search by the light of nature,
reason and science, it is equally obscure now ; and from the
nature of the subject it could not possibly be otherwise.
We have come to the wrong place to learn the nature of
the immortal principle of the human soul, or to find evi-
dence for or against this important doctrine. Suppose it
proved that Consciousness in thi3 temporal life does actually
depend upon a compound material organ, which at death is
decomposed so as to render Consciousness by that organ im-
possible ; suppose this demonstrated beyond all question
;
would this be admitted as decisive proof that the soul is not
immortal? Again, suppose it demonstrated that Conscious-
ness is dependent upon a single indestructible atom, would
this be sufficient to satisfy us concerning the immortality of
man ? We may conjecture what we will, and speculate
until we have exhausted all the resources of our ingenuity,
Avithout solving the question of our future destiny. Con-
sciousness certainly does exist in man and every other living
animal, and has its seat at the point where sensation termi-
nates and volition commences ; this is all that Ave can knoAv.
The condition of human Consciousness after death is a mat-
ter of religious faith, but not of scientific knowledge.
Immortality is like one of those fixed and beautiful stars,
that cannot be perceived by the unaided natural eye ; but
divine revelation is like a poAverful telescope, which brings
that star clearly to our view. Be it, then, hereafter remem-
CONSCIOUSNESS. 145
bered, that " eternal life and immortality is brought to light
through the gospel of Jesus Christ," and not through anato-
my and physiology, nor any other department of scientific
investigation. The subject is infinitely beyond the reach and
above the comprehension of finite intellect and human rea-
son. If any one wishes to find evidence of the immortality
of the soul, let him go to the Bible. If he rejects this tes-
timony, I can assure him that he will find it proved nowhere
else. He will look to human science in vain—it can only
lead him to the grave, and there leave him. History may
reveal to him, that man has, in all ages, and under all cir-
cumstances, savage and civilized, manifested
" This pleasing hope, this fond desire,
This longing after immortality,"
but this affords him no assurance that his longing will be sat-
isfied. In vain, then, do we send out science in search of
immortality for the soul ; like Noah's dove it returns again,
unable to find a resting place, even for itself; but divine
revelation, like the second dove which Noah sent out, comes
to the believer with its beautiful wings illuminated by re-
flections from the rainbow of eternal hope, bearing the olive-
branch, the emblem and assurance of rest and peace from
all the storms of a troubled world.
In whatever direction we turn our eyes to the works of
nature's God, we find evidences of design ; and whenever
we are able to understand his designs, we are forced to ac-
knowledge their wisdom. Let us, then, inquire what was
the design of the Creator in bestowing Consciousness upon
animals and man ? Why could not all their actions have
been involuntary, as one class of them actually is ; and as
all the actions of vegetables, in all probability, are ? Why
it necessary—when organized beings advanced from
the condition of vegetables one degree upwards in the scale
—
w
T
hy was Consciousness added ?
7*
146 THE ORGAN OF
This has been answered by .saying that Consciousness was
given that the animal might be capable of enjoying its exist-
ence. Why, then, was not Consciousness given to vegetables
and minerals? besides, Consciousness is often attended with
suffering ; and, in some instances, animals seem to suffer much
more than they enjoy. This cannot, then, be the answer. When
the question is applied exclusively to man, it may be an-
swered, that Consciousness was bestowed because he could
not otherwise have been made an accountable being ; but
this will not be given as the reason why Consciousness was
bestowed upon the lowest animals ; nor will it enable us to
explain all the instances of human Consciousness. I will
venture to propose another reason. It is this : Conscious-
ness became necessary, to enable the animal to act with refer-
ence to external objects, which are not in contact with his or-
gans. Involuntary and unconscious actions are always per-
formed upon objects which are in contact with the organs.
When the earth first emerged from its primitive condition,
so that organized beings began to live upon it, their first
actions were probably altogether involuntary ; and when the
condition of the earth so far improved as to render the intro-
duction of animals possible, those animals were but a single
step .in advance—but one degree superior to vegetables.
Accordingly, the lowest animals differ from vegetables only
in this, that they act, upon objects which it requires a move-
ment of their extremities to bring into contact. This is the
reason why vegetables, having no Consciousness, have no
muscular motion; nor do they need any, since'all the ob-
jects which require their action are in contact with their
extremities. Vegetables have propensities to breathe, to
eat, to enjoy the light, &c. ; if Consciousness were added,
and nothing more, we should have a vegetable conscious oj
its wants, but unable to move to get into contact with the
objects which it needed—unable even to perceive them.
Now add perceptive organs and contractile muscles, and it
CONSCIOUSNESS. 147
would be a conscious animaly
with the same wants and Con-
sciousness of those wants; and, in addition to these, it
would have a Consciousness of the existence, location, form,
color, flavor and weight of the objects which it needed,
and the means of moving its extremities and directing them
so as to come into contact with those objects. The animal
may still be destitute of reflective organs, and, therefore,
unable to perceive the consequences of his actions. He
has the very lowest animal propensities, and the very lowest
perceptive organs, superadded to Consciousness. He is urged
irresistibly by his propensities to aim at certain objects, with-
out rellection, without fear, and without hesitation or fore-
thought ;
danger and death will be unseen and undreaded. He
will be incapable of acting with reference to any objects which
are beyond the limits of present perception, direct and im-
mediate. He has no memory, for that can only exist with
reflection. Memory is a power which connects the past
and present, and depends, in some degree, upon the reflec-
tive powers, of which we have assumed the animal to be
destitute. As he cannot avail himself of past experience
without memory and reflection, he is a mere conscious ma-
chine, moved by external stimulus. Now add rellection
and the higher propensities, and he is a different being ; he
remembers past experience and profits by it, to avoid dan-
ger, wounds and death. He represses his present active low-
er propensities, because reflection stimulates cautiousness,
and other restraining powers. He is no longer urged irre-
sistibly to act from the immediate present external stimulus,
but he is operated upon by the treasured stimulus of the
past, furnished by memory and applied by reflection, con-
cerning the future effect of present conduct. Thus we con-
clude that Consciousness is necessary to produce contact
with that which is within the range of perception at the
present. Reflation and memory, and the 'high propensities,
are necessary, to enable us to act with reference to that
148 THE ORGAN OF CONSCIOUSNESS.
which is absent from perception at present, but will be likely
to be present to us hereafter. This analysis gives a very
different character to memory from that which phrenologi-
cal writers generally have bestowed upon it They have
made it depend altogether upon the perceptive organs ; but
I have made them mere vehicles, modifiers, and repeaters
of impressions which are acted upon by other and higher
powers of mind.
The philosophical reader will perceive that the foregoing-
explanation of Consciousness has an* important bearing upon
the subject of clairvoyance, as it enables us to understand
clearly how any current of Etherium, which is made to
penetrate ths external coverings and isolation, the " outside
guardians" of the brain, can easily afterwards reach the cen-
tral seat of Consciousness and make an impression ; but this
is all explained in detail in the article on clairvoyance, ins
another part of this work.
SECTION VII.
INTER-PHRENO SENSES.
There are three kinds of senses, viz. ; the external, the
internal-corporeal and the inter-phreno.
1. The external sexses are those which convey impres-
sions from the external world to the perceptive organs, and
give the ideas of flavor, sound, color, form, &c.
2. The internal-corporeal senses are those which
convey impressions from the different organs of the body to
appropriate organs of the brain, and produce the feelings of
hunger, thirst, suffocation, pain and various other bodily
feelings. These senses, or nerves, are in connection with
certain appropriate cerebral organs of the propensities which
are dependant upon them. Thus the organ of Alimentive-
ness is connected with the' stomach by means of a nerve, (a
part of the Pneumogastric.) which conveys from the stomach
impressions to Alimentiveness ; another branch of the same
nerve conveys to the organ of Pneumativeness impressions
from the lungs producing the feeling of suffocation. There
is an infinite number of nerves which convey impressions to
the organ of Sanativeness, and through its means produce
the feeling of bodily pain in all its varieties. These senses
have never been properly investigated and explained by any
writer upon physiology, and the organ of Sanativeness was
unknown until I called attention to it in 1839.
3. The inter-phreno senses are those which convey im-
pressions to the phreno-organs from the organ of Conscious-
,150 INTER-PHRENO SENSES.
Hess, and from the phreno-organs to the organ of Conscious-
ness. They produce a communication between Conscious*
ness and all the phreno-organs.
No writer upon Phrenology has, prior to this time, sug-
gested that this class of senses must exist ; indeed, they
could not do so before an organ of Consciousness was intro-
duced. But when we admit an organ of Consciousness, to
which every phreno-organ sends impressions, we are forced
also to admit the existence of fibres which connect Con-
sciousness with the phreno-organs in such a manner as to
allow of inter-communication
.
Let us illustrate by an example. A man is hungry, and
eats food. Now, there are several links in the chain of
causes and effects, which resulted in the act of eating,
and we shall find it impossible to constitute a perfect
chain without introducing the inter-phreno senses as con-
necting links. 1. The stomach, beino- in a condition to
need food, produces an impression upon the end of the
nerve, viz. one of the internal-corporeal senses ; 2. This
impression is conveyed (as in the electric telegraph) to the
other extremity of the nerve, where it is connected with
the organ of Alimentiveness ; 3. The organ of Alimentive-
ness, receiving the impression, is*excited, and sends an im-
pression to the central organ of Consciousness, thus pro-
ducing a state of Consciousness which we call hunger ; 4.
The organ of Consciousness is excited by the impression,
and immediately from its central position radiates and trans-
mits the impression to the phreno-organs through the inter-
j)hreno senses; 5. Each phreno-organ, being thus excited,
sends, in return to Consciousness, an impression peculiar to
itself. Now, as Consciousness cannot fully recognize more
than one impression at a time, the most powerful impression
forces itself upon Consciousness first, and the next impression
follows, and so on, in the order oftheir relative force ; this suc-
cession of impressions constitutes what is commonly denomi-
INTER-PHRENO SENSES, 151
nated a train of ideas, or a train of thought and feeling. The
impressions upon Consciousness, produced by the intellectual
organs, are called thoughts ; and the impressions from the pro-
pensities are calledfeelings. When, in the above example, the
impression from Alimentiveness produced the state of Con-
sciousness which we all recognize as hunger, the impres-
sion was radiated through the inter-phreno senses, and the
perceptive organs were thus aroused, particularly the percep-
tive organ of Flavor. These perceptive organs being thus ex-
cited, not by impressions from external objects, but by an im-
pression from the central Consciousness, could only send in
return an impression which was but an imperfect repetition
of a former impression : this kind of impression is the foun-
dation of memory ; 6. In the case supposed of the hungry
man, those impressions from the perceptive organs which
constitute memory, only serve (when transmitted through
the inter-phreno senses and Consciousness to a propensity
like Alimentiveness) to excite it to a still greater degree 5
and cause it to send to Consciousness a still more powerful
impression. At length the propensity pours upon Conscious-
ness such a powerful current of impressions, that Conscious-
ness can no longer be relieved by transmitting them through
the inter-phreno senses to the phreno-organs ; another outlet
is therefore resorted to ; 7. Under these circumstances, the
motor nerves receive impressions or currents, through Con-
sciousness, from the phreno-organs. The motor nerves con-
vey impressions from the organ of Consciousness to the mus-
cles ; 8. This produces those contractions of the muscles
which we call voluntary motions, and in the example of the
hungry man, those motions were directed to food ; taking it,
putting it into the mouth, tasting it, chewing and swallowing
it, and continuing this operation, until the stomach ceased
to send impressions along the nerve to Alimentiveness.
It will be perceived that, according to this view, there
are two modes in which phreno-organs may be excited : one
152 INTER-PHRENO SENSES.
is, directly through the senses, and the other is through
Consciousness. Thus, Alimentiveness was excited, first,
by an impression from the stomach ; and secondly, by an
impression through Consciousness from the external senses.
It would seem, however, that all the phreno-organs are
not capable of being excited in these two ways ; some
phreno-organs receive no impressions, except through Con-
sciousness ; this is the case with the reflective organs, and
most of the higher propensities. The reflective organs do
not receive any impressions directly from the external world,
but the perceptives receive them and convey them to Con-
sciousness, and from Consciousness the reflectives receive
the impressions and respond to them. It may be a question
whether all trains of thought originate through the external
and the internal-corporeal senses, or whether the brain may
not be sometimes spontaneously excited by operations of its
own, which are only dependent upon the circulation of the
blood. It may be, in this respect, analogous to the liver
and other glands, which are spontaneously excited merely
by the circulation.
I am decidedly of this opinion ; it is certain that trains
of thought which originate in bodily conditions, and which
are excited through the internal-corporeal senses, are
continued, and, by the aid of the principle of Causality
and Comparison, lead to other thoughts which seem to have
no immediate relation to the things that first started the
train of thought. Thus, a slight toothache may remind one
of a friend who once had a similar toothache, and this may
lead us to think of his wife, and then of her sister, and so
on until our pain is forgotten.
This theory enables us to explain the faculty which we
have of using all the powers of the mind in reverie, when
neither our senses nor our muscles are active. When we
are at rest, every muscle relaxed, our eyes shut and our
external senses inactive, though we are perfectly awake
INTER-PHRENO SENSES. 153
and the mind active upon subjects which are far distant and
events that are long past. For after one phreno-organ has
been excited so as to impress consciousness, this may cause
a long train of spontaneous thought through the means of
the inter-phreno senses.* It also enables us to understand
how it is that thinking on some absent object sometimes
produces a movement of the muscles : thus, thinking of a
beloved child and imagining it falling over a precipice
causes an involuntary start as if to prevent it ; thinking of
delicious food causes the mouth to water and move as if in
the act of enjoyment ; and so of other corporeal enjoyments.
The explanation is, that Consciousness first received an im-
pression from some phreno-organ, which when transmitted
to alimentiveness was adapted to excite it and to cause it
to send an impression to Consciousness with a force which,
increasing in energy, at last forced its way through the mo-
* M. Victor Cousin, in his strictures upon Locke, (See Professor
Henry's translation of Cousin, entitled " Cousin's Elements of
Psychology") claims much credit for having exposed the deficiency
of Locke's system in relation to spontaneous operations of mind inde-
pendently of external sensation. Locke makes all ideas proceed from
sensation; and his system has, therefore,, been somewhat reproach-
fully denominated the sensual or sensuous system. He denies the ex-
istence of innate ideas.
Cousin acknowledges that, ideas are not innate, but insists that the
mind has the inherent power of producing ideas which do not come
through sensation. He contends that sensation occasions the mind to
evolve ideas which sensation itself could never have produced. Cousin
charges^that the doctrine of Locke leads to materialism and fatalism,
and claims that his own doctrine is free from this fault ; but it would
be easy to show that Cousin's doctrine is more directly opposed to
revelation than that of Locke ; for Locke candidly acknowledges that
his philosophy is imperfect, without faith in Divine Revelation ;
whereas, Cousin vainly supposes that he avoids this necessity, by
showing that the mind possesses powers and receives ideas which are
independent of sensation. Cousin does not seem to suspect that there
may be internal material organs which are capable of being spon-
taneously active, or of being called into action " by occasion" of
sensation. I have shown this to be {he case, and, of course, Cousin,
Locke and myself, arc in the same dilemma, —winch forces us
to admit, that the tendency of all human philosoj hy is to Materialism
and Fatalism. The only way of escape is, to admit, with Locke, that
Divine Revelation is above all philosophy.
154 INTER-PHRENO SENSES.
tor nerves to the muscles and produced the movement of
the mouth. This theory enables us to explain the manner
in which dreams are produced when the brain is partially
asleep. It also shows, that even supposing it true that
touching a certain part of the head excites the phreno-organ
touched, yet through the inter-phreno senses the excitement
may be so complicated with other parts of the brain as to
render it impossible to draw any correct inference in regard
to the nature of the organ touched. The relation of the
inter-phreno senses to the organ of Consciousness must be
understood in order to fully explain the philosophy of clair-,
voyance and of Credencive induction, as the reader will per-
ceive when he comes to my remarks on those subjects.
SECTION VIII.
MOTION.
It may be said, with truth, that all motion, of which
we know, is communicated, and that nothing can be said to
originate motion but God. When a cannon-ball is set in
motion, where did the motion originate ? Certainly not in
the ball, nor yet in the powder. Philosophers say that the
motion is caused by the sudden and forcible expansion of
the powder. Granted ; but what caused the powder to
expand in this wonderful manner ? It is said that it ex-
pands in consequence of its sudden change from a solid
to a gaseous form. Granted ; but what caused the sudden
change from solid to gas ? I am told, the application of
heat caused the change. But why ? how ? in what way ?
on what principle does the application of heat to a grain of
powder cause it to change from a solid to a gas, and occupy
a million of times more space than it did before ?
Again, it is not true that the powder occupies more space
than it did before ; that is impossible. Every thing, every
atom in existence, requires a certain amount of space, and
has always, and always must, have it. It is absurd, then,
to say that the powder, in the gaseous form, occupies more
space than it did in its solid form. The space which it
occupies is the same. The constituent atoms of each grain
of the powder may be widely separated from each other,
but they do not, on that account, occupy more space then
when they were associated together in one aggregated lump
156 MOTION.
Now, what separated, in such a forcible and sudden man-
ner, the constituent atoms of the powder ? What agency
had heat in the operation? Why could not the separation
take place as well without heat as with it ? If the motion
in this case was communicated, from whence was it com-
municated? what was its source ?
I solve the enigma thus : the atoms of the powder were
separated from each other by the introduction of Etherium
or caloric between them. The Etherium was in motion
before, and only communicated its motion to the atoms of
powder. The fire which was applied to the powder was
the entering wedge of Etherium, and then the surrounding
Etherium which (although human faculties could not per-
ceive it) was already in motion, and which previously was
unable to separate the atoms of powder, now, since the fire
commenced it, instantly took this direction, and thus com-
municated its motion and force to the atoms. The motions
of Etherium are, therefore, the ne plus ultra of human know-
ledge. It moves and communicates its motions to other
things, this is certain ; but what is the origin of its motions
we cannot know.
We see the motions of the water of the river, and we
say that it is caused by gravitation. That gravitation is a
tendency of things to move towards the centre of the earth
;
that this is related to the motion of the earth upon its axis
;
and this again is caused by the influence of the sun com-
municated to the earth. Now, what communicates this
power to the sun, we know not ;
yet the tides, the winds,
the waterfalls, the vegetable and animal motions, are com-
municated by the sun, moon and other planets, to this
world. Nothing originates motion within human know-
ledge, and nothing within human knowledge can arrest it.
We see it passing, but we never see it commencing nor
ending. Coming and passing away is written upon the
whole universe, and upon every atom it contains. The
MOTION. 157
animal life of one generation is communicated to the next
;
but, where did it begin ? where will it end ? Is not this,
too, communicated motion ? Where was it before the earth
was habitable ? The materials of the first organized beings
existed in the fiery elements of chaos ; and the motions also
existed but not on earth in animated forms. It must then
have been first communicated from inanimated forms of this
earth, or animate forms of some other planet. Which
was it ?
When two inelastic balls are discharged from two guns,
in such a manner as to meet and strike each other with
equal forces, both balls will be deprived of force and motion.
Now what has become of the motion which these two balls
previously contained ? It is commonly said to be destroyed,
but this is impossible and absurd. We have seen the balls,
powder and matches lying quietly together, until a little
friction of the match called into existence a tremendous
force. It is met by another equal force, and instantly both
forces go out of existence ! Is this so ? have the forces
actually gone out of existence ? or are they not rather com-
municated ? But, you inquire, to what can they be com-
municated ? I answer, to the surrounding Etherium from
whence they originally received it.
If the two balls are perfectly elastic, instead of their force
being destroyed, they will rebound from each other with a
force nearly equal to that with which they advanced to-
wards each other. Why is this difference ? What is there
in the nature of elasticity which enables it to prevent force
from being destroyed ? or what is there to prevent it from
being communicated to the surrounding Etherium ? The
solution of this problem depends upon an explanation of the
causes of elasticity. What, then, are the causes of elasti-
city ? Philosophers have newr answered this question.
Th y have contented themselves with defining elasticity
without attempting to explain its causes. They define
158 MOTION.
elasticity to be the inherent property of some bodies, when
compressed, of returning to their original form. If I might
be permitted to suggest an explanation of elasticity, I would
sajr that it is caused by the affinity which* some bodies
possess for Etherium ; and when compression forces.it out, it
has a tendency to return with a force equal to the force of
the elasticity which it manifests.
Applying this theory to the two cannon-balls : when one
is struck, its Etherium is forced out, and its tendency to
return is equal to the force with which it re-acts and re-
bounds ; the same being true of the other, they both re-
bound.
But when two inelastic balls meet, the Etherium which is
forced out, having no affinity for the lead, and no tendency
to return, the balls cannot rebound, but fall to the earth per-
pendicularly in obedience to gravitation.
The existence of a substance must be admitted, which com-
municates motion ; a power different from any material sub-
stance which we can see or know by our senses—a power
independent of all human control. This is proved by the
effect of a magnet upon iron, when partitions of the most
solid substances intervene,—bricks, boards, glass, stone,
water, &c, which prevent the passage of all other sub-
stances, solid, liquid, or gaseous ;
yet, through all these it
moves with perfect ease, and without any apparent dimi-
nution of its power.
Light passes through glass, water, air and other trans-
parent substances with scarcely any obstruction, and pro-
duces all its effects almost as if no obstacle whatever had
interposed.
The planets influence each other and the earth ; this could
hot be, as they are not in contact, unless there were some
connecting medium. The inevitable conclusion therefore,
is, that there is a connecting medium.
MOTION. 159
The influence of the planets upon each other is exactly
in proportion to their size.
This proves that the influence, whatever it is, proceeds
from the constituent atoms of each, to the constituent atoms
of the other; and therefore, that the power by which one
planet influences another must be almost infinitely divisible
and of a chemico-galvanic nature.
The influence of planets upon each other is diminished
by distance. This proves that a part of the force is com-
municated to other particles on its passage—also, that there
is a limit to the extent of the influence.
A magnet may reproduce itself upon another piece of
iron, by communicating its own motions to it, and after-
wards by a blow or stroke of lightning lose its own pe-
culiar power and die.
A chrystal will reproduce forms like its own, and under pro-
per circumstances a vegetable will do the same, and so will
an animal. All motions, wherever they emanate, have a ten-
dency to communicate and propagate themselves. When
two bodies come in contact, one or both being in motion,
the superior will impart and the inferior will receive motion,
and so far as the inferior receives motion it sympathizes.
In this sense, it may be said that that every thing in ex-
istence sympathizes with every other, since they all de-
rive their motions from the same source, though so modified
by the medium that they can scarcely be said to be the
same. In this sense every thing in existence may be said
to sympathize with the first cause and prime mover of all
things. •
1. The motions of Etherium from the sun proceed from the
constituent particles of the sun, and not from its whole
mass. We may, reasoning from analogy with the earth, in-
fer that the sun is composed of different substances, metals,
gasses, &c, and each of these of different kinds and in
different conditions.
1G0 MOTION.
2. The motion of Etherium is modified by the substances
from which it is communicated. The Etherium, when it leaves
the sun, is in different motions according to the substances
from which it emanates, and when it reaches this earth it
will produce different effects accordingly.
3. The motion of Etherium produces different effects upon
different substances with which it comes in contact on the
earth ; and here is another source of variety. If motion
meets with no obstructions in coming from the sun to the
earth, it will, of course, communicate the same motions
with which it emanated, especially if it come in contact
with the same kind of substances on earth : in this case,
the earth may be said to s}"mpathize with the sun.
Sympathy means same motion, same feeling, same condition
—and when one thing produces sympathy in another, it is
because it is superior, and therefore capable of communicat-
ing its own motions to the substance of an inferior, which
cannot resist it.
*^
In this sense, when a magnet attracts iron filings, and
makes a temporary magnet of each separate piece of iron,
is not this sympathy ?
When a magnet points north and south, is it not be-
cause the motions of the earth's magnetism are communi-
cated to it, and produce sympathy or same-motion ? When
a ma net whi h is pointing north and south is brought
within the sphere of action of a galvanic battery, and
changes its dire foil t > conform to the battery, is it not be-
cause the motions are communicated from the battery to
the magnet ? The same motions—the sympathy ?
When th ; same moti ns—the same kind of motions,
whether simultaneous or not, are performed by two bodies,
one of two things may be inferred—either that they are
both set in motion by a third body, or else, that one con-
tains within itself the cause of its own motion, and that it
communicates motion also to the other.
MOTION. 161
When one thing communicates motion to another, there
must be either contact or connection. If contact, then the
motion must be communicated first to the part in immediate
contact, and from that to the other parts more remote
afterwards. If connection is the means, then there must be
a connecting medium—a connecting substance—a connect-
ing material, which is capable of being itself set in motion
by the superior, and of communicating motion to the inferior.
The effects of the motion communicated will generally
be less powerful in proportion to the resistance which it en-
counters ; and the resistance will depend upon several cir-
cumstances, such as distance, material, counter-motions, #c
SECTION IX.
TRIUNE SYSTEM OF PHRENOLOGY.
This system of Phrenology is so peculiar, and so different
from the system of Spurzheim, and the allusions to the
subject in this work are so frequent, that for the benefit of
those who may do me the honor to read this work, but
who have not previously perused my " New System of
Phrenology," I will give a brief outline of it in this place.
OUTLINE.
Phrenology, or rather phreno-physiology, is the science
of mind, founded upon a knowledge of the structure and
functions of the human constitution in general, and the brain
in particular.
The human constitution is composed of six general sys-
tems of organs, upon the relative development and perfec-
tion of which the character and talents are dependent. The
predominance of one of these systems constitutes a peculiar
temperament.
Size is a measure of power, all else equal. In order,
therefore, to know the power of organs, we must first know
their size.
Size is a measure of power, but not of correctness of mind. This
is an important distinction which no writer upon phrenology seems
to have made. A man may think, or feel, or act, correctly, but not
powerfully. The town clock may operate with a degree of power
in proportion to its size, and may be heard throughout a whole
PHRENOLOGY. 163
city, thus exercising an extensive influence ; and yet a small watch
may excel it in point of correctness. So a small man with a small
head, may excel in correctness a large man with a large head, on
account of a more perfect proportion and cultivation of his powers.
A professional examination should commence with an es-
timation of
The Size of the whole Constitution, compared with the
constitutions of other persons of the same age and sex
and race.
TEMPERAMENTS
The nextconsid
of
The next- consideration is, the relative size and condition
THE BODILY SYSTEMS.
The Osseous System, or system of bones, constitutes
the frame, to which all the other organs are attached,
and combined with an uncommon development of
The Muscular System, tends to produce strength of
body, and slow motions of mind and body.
2. The Nervous System, (including the brain,) tends to
produce activity and sensitiveness, without reference
to strength, thus antagonizing the muscular system.
The three following systems tend to modify the opera-
tions of the three preceding, by causing vigor, endurance,
or indolence.
3. The Digestive System, tends to produce moderation,
indolence and sedentary habits.
4. The Arterial System, including the lungs, tends to
produce vigor, industry and a love of varied exercise
of mind and body.
5. The Venous System, being the magazine of surplus
blood, tends to produce long continued action of mind
and body, without reference to energy or vigor.
In accordance with these principles I usually reckon five
Temperaments, viz. : the Muscular, the Nervous, the Di-
gestive, the Arterial and the Venous.
PHRENOLOGICAL LUST.
The location office three classes is indicated in the above engraving
by three kinds of nnmeral figures. On the side of the head, from I
to XII, are the Ipseah ; at the back and top, from 1st to 12th, are
the Socials ; and in front, from 1 to 15, are the Intellectuals.
PHRENOLOGY. 165
IPSEALS.
PROPENSITIES WHICH WERE DESIGNED FOR THE BENEFIT
OF SELF.
CORPOREAL RANGE.
I. Pneumativeness—the propensity to breathe. When
not gratified it produces the feeling of suffocation. Its
deficiency tends to produce sedentary habits. Its abuse—
so much exercise in the open air as to disqualify for
study and reflection.
II. Alimentiveness—propensity to eat—produces the feel-
ing of hunger or thirst. Its abuse—gluttony and drunk-
enness. Its deficiency produces neglect of nourishment.
III. Sanativeness—propensity to preserve soundness of
body. Produces the feeling of bodily pain. Abuse—
unnecessary attention to trifling ails. Deficiency—neglect
of personal comforts and health.
Just under Combativeness and behind Sanativeness, in the cor-
poreal range, there is, in my opinion, an organ of Excretiveness ;
and it is generally large upon those who seem to delight in vulgar
and filthy language, and small on those who are extremely fastidi-
ous. I suspect that the front part of Secrctiveness, near where it
is connected with Alimentiveness, is an organ of Luminativeness,
or the love of light ; and in this region there are also, probably,
several other organs relating to the corporeal wants ; such as cold,
warmth, &c, but nothing definite has been as yet ascertained con-
cerning them. It is probable that all the corporeal propensities are
compound.
CARNIVOROUS RANGE.
IV. Destructiveness—propensity to destroy. It produces
the feeling of anger or wrath. Abuse—revenge, cruelty,
severity, murder. Deficiency—too much gentleness.
166 PHRENOLOGY
Oombativeness—the propensity to contend, oppose,
i;ht, dispute. Feeling—resentment, hostility. Abuse—
V. Com
b
ATr
improper contentions and disputes. Deficiency—indis-
position to contend, even for justice
HERBIVOROUS RANGE.
VI. Secretiveness—to conceal, to secrete, to act indi-
rectly. Feeling—suspicion.* Abuse—deceit, falsehood.
Deficiency—too much openness and directness.
VII. Cautiousness—propensity to avoid coming danger.
Feeling—fear, apprehension. Abuse—cowardice, panic,
fright. Deficiency—carelessness and recklessness. The
manifestations of Cautiousness are often confounded with
those of Sanativeness.
RODENTIA RANGE
VIII. Constructiveness—to construct, build, manufacture.
Feeling—love of the mechanical. Abuse—unnecessary
and foolish structures. Deficiency—inattention to con-
struction and to structural philosophy.
IX. Acquisitiveness propensity to acquire property.
Feeling—love of wealth. Abuse—avarice, penurious-
ness, theft. Deficiency—profuseness, neglect of property.
HUMAN RANGE.
I think that the " organ of Tune " should be called Tunefulness ;
that it is an Ipseal propensity of the Human range, and that it is
not an intellectual faculty, as it has hitherto been supposed to be.
If this is admitted, we can understand why it is that so many are
fond of music who have very little ability to make it, or even to
judge concerning its merits ; for a propensity does not directly give
ability, but only a disposition
X. Playfulness, or Mirthfulness, or Wit—to act in sport.
* Our language is deficient in terms adequate to express some of
the states of Consciousness produced by propensities.
PHRENOLOGY. 167
Feeling—mirth, fun. Abuse—sport on improper occa-
sions. Deficiency—neglect of useful sport.
XI. Perfectiveness, or Ideality—to improve and perfect.
Feeling—love of the beautiful. Abuse—ornament to the
neglect of the useful. Deficiency—neglect of the fine
arts and of improvement.
XII. Hopefulness, or Hope—to act as if future enjoyment
is certain. Feeling—contentment, cheerfulness, gaiety,
hope. Abuse—unreasonable anticipations of enjoyment.
Deficiency—despondency and melancholy. This is often
confounded with exuberant animation which depends
upon health.
SOCIALS.
PROPENSITIES WHICH WERE DESIGNED TO PRODUCE AND
BENEFIT SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHING GROUP.
1st. Amativeness—to propagate the species. Feeling—
amorousness. Abuse—licentious indulgence. Deficiency—
inattention to the opposite sex, want of gallantry.
2d. Parentiveness, or Fkiloprogenitiveness—to take care
of the young. Feeling—parental love. Abuse—improper
indulgence of children. Deficiency—neglect of the young.
3d. Inhaeitiveness, or Concentrativeness—to fix on some
spot for a permanent residence. Feeling—amor patriae,
or love of country, homesickness. Abuse—prejudice
against other countries, too limited views of patriotism.
Deficiency—roving.
4th. Adhesiveness—To form connections and attachments
to parents and friends. Feeling—friendship. Abuse—
improper connections. Deficiency—neglect of friends.
GOVERNING GROUP.
5th. Imperativeness, or Self-Esteem—to command, to take
the lead in society, to assume superiority. Feeling—
168 PHRENOLOGY.
dignity, pride, self-esteem. Abuse—superciliousness,
haughtiness, arrogance. Deficiency—want of dignity,
independence.
6th. Approbativeness—to act in a popular and agreeable
manner, to gain the esteem and applause of others. Feel-
ing—love of praise, admiration, distinction. Abuse—
foppishness, coquetry, vanity, improper attempts to ac-
quire notoriety. Deficiency—indifference to the opinions
of others.
7th. Firmness—to maintain the position or authority which
we have assumed in relation to others. Feeling—deter-
mination. Abuse—obstinacy, infatuation. Deficiency—
•
too much influenced by others. This is often confounded
with combativeness.
8th. Conscientiousness—to act justly. Feeling—con-
scious integrity, moral sense, remorse. Abuse—improper
self-condemnation, useless remorse. Deficiency—dis-
honesty.
CONFORMING GROUP.
All of the conforming Socials should be carefully studied, in
order to come to a right understanding of the Conforming, Sub-
missive, Imitative, Sympathizing and Credencive dispositions gene-
rally exhibited by inducted subjects.
9th. Submissiveness, or Reverence^ or Veneration—to sub-
mit, to condescend, to yield to superior power, wisdom,
or merit. Feeling—reverence, veneration, adoration.
Abuse—servility, slavishness, false worship. Deficiency
—a want of proper respect and obedience.
10th. Kindness, or Benevolence—to gratify the feelings of
others. Feeling—pity, compassion. Abuse—indiscrimi-
nate and improper kindness. Deficiency—indifference to
the feelings of others.
11th. Imitativeness, or Imitation—to imitate the examples,
precepts and operations of others whom we respect.
PHRENOLOGY. 169
Feeling—sympathy. Abuse—irreverent mimicry, or ser-
vile copying. Deficiency—indifference to the manners of
others.
12th. Credenciveness, or Marvelousness, or Wonder.—
to act upon the testimony of others, and especially those
whom we respect. Feeling—curiosity, wonder, marvel-
ousness. Abuse—superstition, credulity. Deficiency—
skepticism, and a want of what is sometimes called imagi-
nation.
INTELLECTUALS.
PERCEPTIVES.
1
.
Individuality—or Perception of individual things, with-
out reference to their relations. Memory of individual
facts.
1 am altogether dissatisfied with the explanations usually given
of Individuality. I cannot help thinking that it is a mere concen-
tration of the radicals of the lowest intellectual organs, and that it
is thus auxiliary to, and intimately connected with, the organ of
Consciousness. The explanations of this organ by phrenologians
seem to me perfectly illogical and unfounded. Although I have
followed, in some degree, the example of Spurzheim in the defini-
tion which I have given it in my work on phrenology, and also in this
outline, yet 1 am convinced that we have all been in the wrong,
and that the only thing certain concerning it is, that when large
it indicates a tendency or ability to take notice of things without re-
ference to their relations.
2. Flavor—Perception of odors and savors. Memory of
odors and savors. Talent for distinguishing the flavor of
food, drink, perfumes and chemical substances.
3. Sound, or Language—Perception of sounds. Memory
of words. Talent for learning languages.
8*
170 PHRENOLOGY.
I have perfectly satisfied my own mind, that what has hitherto
been called the organ of Language, is merely a perception and
memory of sounds ; and that it is related to language just as far as
sounds are related to language, and no farther. (See on this sub-
ject Locke's Essay on the Understanding.)
4. Form—Perception of the forms of bodies. Memory of
forms and faces. Talent for drawing forms, &c.
I am in much doubt, but on the whole, am inclined to think that
Form and Size shouldjlnot be considered as separate powers of mind.
5. Size, or Extension—Perception of distance, space, size.
Memory of size and distance. Talent for perspective
drawing, landscapes, &c.
6. Weight—Perception of equilibrium, gravitation, force,
momentum, resistance. Memory of weigfit, &c. Talent
for balancing, and applying force in a skillful and delicate
manner.
7. Color—Perception of hues, tints and shades of color.
Memory of color. Talent for painting, dyeing, &c.
S. Order—Perception of arrangement. Memory of arrange-
ment. Talent for arranging and keeping things in order.
9. Number—Perception of plurality, or number. Memory
of numbers. Talent for arithmetical calculation. Com-
bined with the Renectives, it bestows the talent for math-
ematics.
10- Direction, or Locality—Perception of the direction of
objects. Memory of the points of the compass. Talent
for navigation.
This is, by all other writers upon phrenology, called the organ
of Locality, but I call it the organ of Direction, as this seems to me
more simple and more in harmony with truth. (See my larger
work on Phrenology.)
11. Eventuality, or Action—Perception of the action of
things. Memory of transactions, anecdotes and histories.
Talent for History.
PHRENOLOGY. 171
12. Time—Perception of the duration of time. Memory of
intervals and (combined with Number) memory of dates.
Talent for chronology, and keeping time in music, danc-
ing, marching, &c.
13. Tune or Tunefulness—Perception of the pitch of sound.
Memory of tune, the foundation of the Talent for Music.
1 am certain that tune should not be considered an intellectual
faculty. Some of the properties which have been hitherto attri-
buted to it, belong to the organ of Sound or Language ; other proper-
ties belong to order, which gives a perception of arrangement or
succession of sounds, as it does of other things ; other properties,
to Comparison and Causality, which give a perception of harmony,
relation, connection, mutual dependence, &c. ; while this organ
gives the mere impulsive propensity to direct or use the intellectual
faculties in a tuneful manner, just as Constructiveness impels them
to attend to mechanical ideas. All practical phrenologians have
been forced to admit that they cannot arrive at a correct judgment
concerning the musical talents of any person, by examining their
developments. They have long since given up all pretence of tell-
ing a person's musical character by his head ; at the same time, they
are all sure that this part of the head is in some way related to
music. I hope that I have discovered the difficulty, and removed
it. In this outline, I have retained the arrangement and definitions
of the organs, as they are in my work on phrenology, choosing to
explain myself in these notes, for the present, and give my views
more at large in a new edition of my larger work on phrenology,
which will hereafter be published.
REFLECTIVES.*
14. Comparison, or Classification—Perception of the resem-
blances, differences and classes of things. Memory of
resemblances, and classes. Talent for classification, for
figurative language, and for analogical reasoning.
* It is not strictly logical to call these reflective organs, it would
have been better to call them combining organs or combining percep-
tives, but it is perhaps too late no'.v to correct the error.
1?^ PHRENOLOGY.
15. Causality, or Connection—Perception of dependence,
connection, cause and effect. Memory of general conclu-
sions and results. Talent for logical reasoning, and
original invention.
NUMBERS.
Most phrenologians use numerical figures to express the
size of the organs, and, if correctly done, it is undoubtedly
the best way. Some adopt 91 asa medium number, and,
then, of course, 20 stands for the highest, and 1 for the
lowest degree of development. I prefer to adopt 5 as a
medium number, and, therefore, 9 stands for the highest,
and 1 for the lowest degree of development. If a head
were perfectly formed, and all the organs equally developed,
every organ should be numbered 5 ; and, as there are 39
organs, the sum of all their numbers would be 5 times 39
,
or 195. We cannot number any more above medium than
we do below, for no organ can be large without being so at
the expense of others. If an organ is marked 6, some other
must be marked 4, and whatever be the form or size of
the head, the sum of all the numbers must be 195, or the
examination is incorrect. It is like dividing $195 among
39 men ; it would be $5 each ; and if we give more than
$5 to one man, some one or more of the others must re-
ceive less.
Simple and undeniable as this rule is, it has hitherto been
either unknown or totally disregarded by all practical phre-
nologians. It is common to see a chart in which nearly all
the organs are marked higher than the medium number ; a
practice which, however complimentary it may seem to the
PHRENOLOGY. 173
subject, is perfectly absurd, and renders the chart worse
than useless.
In Capen's life of Spurzheim, we are presented with a
chart of his head, taken by Mr. George Combe and Mr.
Walter Todd, in which 20 was adopted as a maximum, and
the number of organs examined was 35. The sum of all
the numbers, therefore, could have been only 3322, if they
had proceeded correctly ; but they have made it amount to
581. All American practitioners, following the example of
Mr. Combe, have been led into the same error into which
he has fallen.
It should be remembered that the numbers express only
the relative size of the organs in the same individual, with-
out reference to other persons. Two men may have their
organs numbered precisely alike, and yet one head may be
a third larger than the other ; one may be a man of extra-
ordinary talent and energy, while the other is far below
mediocrity, on account of the small size of his head.
In order to make a just comparison of one individual with
others, we must ascertain the size of the whole constitution,
compared with others of the same age, sex and race. All
else equal, the largest constitution will manifest the most
force, both of body and mind.
The brain is the organ of the mind, and, all else equal,
the largest brain will manifest the most power. We, there-
fore, ascertain the size of the brain, compared with the rest
of the body, for if the whole constitution is above the
medium size, and then the head is disproportionately large,
nothing more is wanting to constitute true natural greatness
but a favorable proportion of the parts.
The above remarks concerning numbers were written and pub-
lished in 1840, and yet the charts made by all the " practical phren-
ologists" in this country, are still made in the old way. None of
them pretend to justify it ; but such is their unfortunate selfishness,
that they prefer to commit the most palpable outrages upon com-
174 PHRENOLOGY.
mon sense and mathematics, rather than to admit that they have
heen so long in error, and that one whose success excites their hos-
tility, has induced them to reform for the credit of the science and
the good of their patrons.
Perhaps the reason that none haye adopted this method is, that
it is more difficult, and requires more accurate examination. It
does not allow of such egregious flattery and deception as their
method, since they cannot mark one organ high without doing so
at the expense of some other.
If any one, who has a chart made by one of them, will take the
trouble to examine it, he will find that they have assumed a certain
number for average or mean, and then, with flattering falsehood,
have proceeded to mark nearly all (in some cases all) the organs
above the average.
They all agree that, in estimating the size of any organ of the
brain, they compare it with the other organs of the same brain ;
this being so, they cannot possibly justify themselves ; they are
fairly chargeable either with dishonesty, or with unpardonable
stupidity.
GENERAL SUMMARY OF THE PHILOSOPHY OF THE TRIUNE
SYSTEM OF PHRENOLOGY.
1. The Nervous System maybe divided into the ganglio-
nic and the Phrenic. The principal distinction in the
modus operandi of the two systems, depends upon the fact
that the Phrenic system (or in other words the voluntary
system) has a central organ of Consciousness, while the
ganglionic system has not. Phreno-organs are merely
ganglions connected with Consciousness, and ganglions are
merely propensities to produce muscular action. Volun-
tary and involuntary actions are both produced by similar
apparatuses, except that one has a common centre, through
which each organ of that system is compelled to operate ;
while the organs of the other system (the involuntary or
PHRENOLOGY. 175
ganglionic), are not under the necessity of preserving unity
of action, nor of producing Consciousness.
2. Ordinary sleep is caused by the temporary predomi-
nance of the o-ano-lionic system over the phrenic.
3. The organ of Consciousness is located in the medulla
oblongata, where it receives impressions from Phreno-
organs, and transmits or radiates the impressions which
it receives to other Phreno-organs, or else to the motor
nerves, or to both, according to circumstances. When it
transmits impressions to phreno-organs, it receives other im-
pressions in return, and thus trains of thought are produced.
But when it transmits impressions to the motor nerves,
voluntary muscular motion is produced, such as tends to
gratify those phreno-organs in which the movements origi-
nated.
4. Each Phreno-organ has fibres, (inter-phreno senses,)
which convey or conduct impressions from Consciousness,
as well as fibres which conduct impressions to Conscious-
ness.
5. Consciousness and the lowest intellectual organs were
superadded to the ganglionic system, by the Creator, to
enable animals (when in the scale of created beings they
were elevated above mere vegetables) to act with reference
to objects which are not in contact with their organs,
though the objects desired may be within reach, so as to be
obtained by muscular movements.
6. Reflection and memory depend upon the higher in-
tellectual organs, such as the lowest animals do not possess.
These higher organs of intellect were superadded to the
lower, and bestowed upon the higher animals and man, to
enable them to act reasonably, with reference to the past
and future—the distant and absent—and all other things
176 PHRENOLOGY.
which concern us, but which are so far separated from us by
space and time as to be beyond the range of our present
perceptions.
7. Memory depends upon the reflective organs, in an im-
portant degree, because, they combine, connect, class and
associate ideas and feelings ; but the materials remembered
are furnished, to Consciousness and reflection, by the other
organs of the brain.
8. Ideas, thoughts, emotions, or feelings, are only so
many states or conditions of Consciousness, which are de-
signed to prepare and qualify the conscious being to act
with propriety.
9. When one phreno-organ, from any cause, sends to Con-
sciousness a more powerful current of Etherium than any
other, it produces an effect which is in accordance with the
established laws of mechanics as applied to other forces
;
that is, it causes every opposing current to conform or be
neutralized.
10. The phreno-organs may be divided into Intellectuals,
or those that direct actions ; and Propensities that originate
actions. The Propensities may be divided into Ipseal, or
those that were designed for the benefit of self ; and Social,
or those that were designed for thejbenefit of others. The
brain is thus constituted of three classes of organs ; viz.,
Ipseal, Social and Intellectual. By the connecting and
concentrating nature of the organ of Consciousness, these
three classes of organs act in harmony and preserve their
unity; I therefore call this, the Triune system, or TJiree-one
system, to distinguish it from the system of Spurzheim,
which all other phrenologians follow.
11. Organs that perform analogous functions have con-
tiguous locations ; and this fact is the basis of their classifi-
PHRENOLOGY. 177
cation. Organs that are lowest in the brain, and nearest
the median line of the head, are lowest in the scale, and
manifested by the least perfect animals ; this fact is the
basis of the arrangement of the organs that belong to the
same class. Among the Ipseals, those nearest the front
mesial line, and nearest the base of the brain, are lowest in
the scale.
The Ipseal organs are grouped together on the side of the
head. The Socials are extended in a connected chain from
the lowest back of the head to the upper front. The Intel-
lectuals are all grouped in the forehead. [See the En-
graving.]
12. The order in which the organs are successively de-
veloped and superadded to each other, when considered in
connection with the Triune classification, is, in my opinion,
superior in scientific beauty to anything in the whole range
of human knowledge.
It is a curious and interesting fact, that the superadditions
of organs in the human brain harmonize with the superaddi-
tions of the geological strata, and the gradually increasing
intelligence and complexity of animals from the lower to
the higher strata. It is also a curious fact that the develop-
ment of the brain during its embryotic growth, is by a
series of similar superadditions. In the first stages of its
growth, it resembles that of the lower animals. In the new
born infant, the head resembles that of an ape, and it con-
tinues to expand in the higher regions until the individual
attains maturity.
13. If we trace the order in which the Intellectual organs
are developed, we find, at the base, in the mesial line, the
organs possessed by the very lowest animals. The farther
we proceed from this point, either laterally or upwards, the
higher is the nature of the organ, and the higher the destiny
178 PHRENOLOGY.
of the animal possessing it in an uncommon degree. Caus-
ality being the most lateral organ of the highest range, is,
according to this rule, the highest in its nature ; and it is
possessed, in a great degree, only by man. [See the En-
14. In the development of Ipseals the same order may
be traced. It will be perceived more readily if we make a
drawing of the Ipseal class of each hemisphere, and place
the two hemispheres together in such a way, that the most
frontal organs of each side shall come in contact, just as the
intellectuals do in the medium line : let Pneumativeness of
the right side be brought forward until it meets Pneumative-
ness of the left side ; and let Playfulness of the right side
meet in contact with Playfulness of the left. We shall now
perceive that the same order is exhibited in the arrangement
of the. Ipseals as in the other classes which border upon the
medium line ; that is, the organs nearest to the frontal line,
and also nearest to the base, are lowest in the scale. Ac-
cording to this rule, Pneumativeness is the lowest, and Hope-
fulness the highest organ of this class. The other organs
hold a rank which is indicated by the figures on the en-
graving of the head.
15. We find the organ of the lowest social propensity at
the lowest part of the back of the head ; the second im-
mediately above it ; the third above the second ; and the
fourth developed laterally from the second and third, like
the branch of a tree from the main trunk ; the fifth is above
the third, and is a continuation of the main trunk; the
sixth is a branch of the fifth ; the seventh is a continuation
of the main trunk, and the eighth a branch ; the ninth is a
continuation, and the tenth a completion of the main trunk ;
the eleventh and twelfth are the highest branches; the
twelfth is manifested clearly by man only. The whole
PHRENOLOGY. 179
classification and arrangement of the three classes very much
resembles three trees planted at different points, with their
branches regularly shooting forth, and their topmost boughs
intertwined harmoniously—they are closely connected, but
should not be confounded together.
16. The lowest range of Ipseals and the two lowest
Socials, have this peculiarity, that they receive stimuli
from the body directly through the internal-corporeal senses,
while all the other and higher propensities receive all their
stimuli indirectly through Consciousness.
The perceptives receive stimuli directly through the ex-
ternal senses, but the rerlectives receive all their stimuli
indirectly through Consciousness.
17. The Ipseal propensities are subdivided into five
ranges, which correspond with different classes of ani-
mals ; this subdivision is not very important, nor very ex-
act, but it is convenient and useful ; and, to a naturalist,
must be highly interesting.
18. The Socials are subdivided into the organs that
establish society—the organs that govern society—and the
organs that conform to society. This subdivision is ex-
tremely useful and important in its bearing upon the ex-
periments and phenomena of Etheropathy.
19. It will be observed that the explanation which I
have given of the Temperaments, is very different from that
usually given, especially that which ascribes to the venous
system the power of giving continuity of action. My doc-
trine is, that the predominance in size of the bones and
muscles produces the muscular temperament—this is the
temperament of strength and slowness. The predominance
of the brain and nerves produces the nervous temperament
—the temperament of activity and sensitiveness. The pre-
180 PHRENOLOGY.
dominance of the digestive system produces the digestive
or indolent temperament. The predominance of the arterial
system and lungs produces the arterial or sanguine tempera-
ment. The predominance of the venous system produces
the venous or bilious temperament. I believe that I am the
first to suggest this venous temperament, and I am happy
to know that it has been approved by some of the most dis-
tinguished Physiologists.
SECTION X.
ETHEROPATHY.
The spontaneous phenomena and the experiments in
Etheropathy, including all those performed by Mr. Sunder-
land and Drs. Elliotson, Braid, Buchanan, Caldwell and
others, may all be explained by the application of the fol-
lowing principles
:
1. Imperfect isolation of the subject, exposing him to abnor-
mal induction, both spontaneous and artificial.
2. Will of operator producing induction.
3. Credencive induction, or self-induction.
4. Sympathy produced by induction.
5. Clairvoyance, or un-isolated and un-restricted percep-
tion produced by induction.
6. Deranged function produced by abnormal induction ; this
principle, combined with the principles above mentioned
of will, sympathy, credence and clairvoyance, account
for all the phenomena, and explain all the experi-
ments.
1. Imperfect isolation, exposing the subject to induction.
The terms isolation and induction are borrowed from the
science of Electricity. The word isolation or insulation is
used in this work to signify the peculiar structure or con-
dition of the organs of man and animals, which is designed
to protect them from the influence of surrounding and exter-
nal currents of Etherium. This principle of isolation is
absolutely necessary to protect the organs from the undue
182 ETHEROPATHY.
influence of abnormal currents by which we are continually
surrounded.
—
(See Cuvie^s Lectures on Physiology.) The
numberless nerves are continually conveying impressions in
all directions throughout the whole constitution. Some-
times we find different functions performed by nerves which
are so near to each other that no anatomical skill can point
out the precise line of separation, and yet it can be proved
by the most decisive experiments that one of the nerves
conveys a motion of Etherium in one direction, while another
conveys motion in the opposite direction, and notwithstand-
ing their contiguity, there is no interference.
Just as two contiguous rail-road tracks admit of the pas-
sage of cars in opposite directions without jostling or colli-
sion, so do these nerves convey the motions of Etherium in
opposite directions.
In common electric experiments, the wires can be made
to convey electricity in opposite directions, even though the
wires are in contact, provided they are coated with glass,
resin, varnish, or shellac ; but if the isolating varnish is re-
moved, the currents interfere with each other, and the
weaker currents become neutralized or modified by the in-
duction of the more powerful currents.
Induction is a term which signifies the communication of
motion from one body to another, or from one organ to anoth-
er; thus, when a current of electricity is communicated from
a body which possesses it, to one which does not, the motion
or current in the latter is said to be induced or inducted, and
the process is called induction.
If a large magnet or a galvanic battery is brought near a
small mariner's compass, the compass needle is immediately
affected by induction ; that is, the current of electricity is
communicated from the large magnet to the needle.
Thus we have seen that the object of isolation is to pre-
vent induction ; and what we do in an imperfect manner by
human skill in a galvanic apparatus, nature does with won-
derful perfection in organized bodies.
ETHEROPATHY. 183
The Susceptibility of the subject depends upon two
conditions ; first, the weakness of the currents of Etherium
evolved in the capillaries ; second, the imperfection or weak-
ness of the isolation.
Some organs are susceptible, while others are not ;
—the
reason is that some organs are more perfectly isolated, or
else they evolve more powerful currents of Etherium.
Some organs are susceptible to one operator but not to an-
other. There seems to be a natural tendency of the organs
of the operator to induct the corresponding organs of the
subject : Combativeness in operator to induce its own cur-
rent in Combativeness of the subject ; Sanativeness of opera-
tor to induct Sanativeness of the subject, and so of all the
other organs both of mind and body ; this kind of induction is
denominated sympathy or same condition.
If, therefore, Sanativeness is large in the subject, and small
in the operator, it would be difficult for that operator to in-
duct that organ, though he might succeed in inducting many
others in the same subject ; another operator may, if his
Sanativeness be large, succeed in affecting the Sanativeness
of this same subject.
The subject may be inducted by his own organs ; that is,
one organ may induct all the others, and produce paralysis
or monomania. Again, the subject may be inducted by ex-
ternal inanimate objects, as in the cases of spontaneous som-
nambulism, such as that of Jane C. Rider.
Signs of Susceptibility.—I find the most susceptible
subjects among those whose flesh is pliable and flaccid, and
indicative of a want of vigor in the capillary circulation.
But I have also found a great number, the appearance of
whose flesh, and indeed every appearance, was highly in-
dicative of susceptibility ;
yet upon trial they were found
perfectly impervious : the reason is, that the isolation was
perfect, though the Etherean current was weak. I have
184 ETHEROPATHY*
long since given up all pretensions to skill in determining by
the appearance of a person, whether or not he is suscepti-
ble, since I am satisfied that it depends upon two or more
causes, one of which is concealed from the senses.
The susceptibility of the subject is greatly increased by
his passiveness, and the consent and submission of his
mind, while the powers of the operator are in their most
active condition. It is also increased by the absence of all
exciting stimulii, such as noise, or anxiety, or hunger, or
pain. All these facts go to establish the opinion that sus-
ceptibility is, in some degree, related to the weakness with
which the currents are evolved from the organs of the
subject.
2. Will of operator producing induction. By the term
will, I mean the effort which we are conscious of making
to accomplish an end ; for instance, when I determine to
raise my arm, I immediately make an effort, which is called
willing, and instantly my arm rises. In this case, the arm
was inducted by the brain : that is, a motion of Etherium
from the brain was communicated to my arm. Now, when
a person sits before me with his eyes closed, and I will his
arm to rise, I make the same effort that I did when I raised
my own arm ; and if his arm actually rises at my will, I
conceive that the effect was produced in the same way in
both cases : that is, by the induction of a current of Ethe-
rium from my brain to the nerves connected with the arm,
causing the arm to perform its function.
If I will the arm to feel sore, as if burnt, and the subject
instantly moves his arm, and complains of its being hurt, the
principle is the same ; I induct the requisite nerves of sen-
sation by my will, so that a current of Etherium passes to
Sanativeness from the arm, and produces a painful state of
Consciousness. Why cannot I cause a sensation in the sub-
ject as well 'as a motion ? in both cases, there is merely a
current of Etherium from the brain of the operator ; but, in
ETHEROPATHY. 185
one case the current moves down to the arm of the subject,
in the other, it moves up to the brain ; of course, in one
case it produces motion, in the other sensation.
There has been much discussion among metaphysicians,
concerning Identity and Consciousness. The question is
often asked, What phreno-organ is it that says " IV and
what is it that says U I am?" and what says " I will ?"
What is will ?
I answer these questions simply and plainly, thus : —The
notions of I" and I am are the result of the operation of the
reflective organs. Many animals never have such an idea.
/ am and I was and / shall be are notions which are related
inseparably to each other, and to the comparing and con-
necting power. Many beings are conscious that never have
reason enough to raise the idea of / am. An infant is con-
scious, but does not think of lain or I was, and it is not until
they learn to compare themselves, with other beings, that
they distinguish I from other beings in their reasoning.
Doubtless the first efforts of the infant mind in reasoning,
teaches them the notion of I and I am, and a little more of
the same kind of reasoning, teaches them the notion of /
icas and I shall be.
Identity is an idea that I am the same person that I was,
and this is certainly a notion which can only arise upon
Comparison and connection, or Causality.
I will is an expression which is used in two senses, one
signifies I desire, and the other I am determined.
i" desire is a notion excited in Consciousness by any active
phreno-organ when stimulated by some object.
I am determined is a notion produced in Consciousness,
principally by Combativeness, Firmness, Imperativeness and
Hopefulness, under circumstances of opposition and difficulty.
The idea of I can is generally produced by Hope and re-
flection. The idea of I myself am superior from Imperative-
ness and reflection. The idea of I love from Adhesiveness,
9
186 ETHEROPATHY.
Comparison and Causality. The idea of I hate from De-
structiveness and reflection. In short, it is reflection that
says i, and propensity says will. In operating, when we
will that the subject shall be in a certain state, that which
wills is Imperativeness, Firmness and Hopefulness, and
any other propensities may add their influence, if they are
interested in the result. When one propensity desires one
thing, and another the contrary, the will is the predominant
propensity.
3. CREDENCIVE INDUCTION.
While engaged in performing various experiments, I
made a very important discovery which I have never
before communicated to the public in writing, though I
have frequently mentioned it privately to my friends, and
publicly in my lectures. It is this—that when a subject
is but slightly affected, and when any of the operators in
mesmerism, or neurology, or pathetism, would send him
away as unprofitable—merely by the application of a very
simple stimulus which every one has always at hand, the
subject may be brought perfectly under your control.
Do you ask me what this simple and powerful stimulus is ?
I answer, that it is an assertion.
Assert to the subject, in a decided tone, for instance, " You
cannot open your eyes," and if his eyes were shut when you
made the assertion, he canno't open them afterwards until
you again say, " Now you can open them," or something to
that effect: Again ; say to the subject, uPut your hands to-
gether and you cannot separate them" If now he puts his
hands together, he will try in vain to separate them until you
reverse your assertion. Say " the floor is hot," and instant-
ly to him it seems hot. Assert that " yonder is a lion, "and
he immediately believes it and sees it ; or tell him that he
is himself a lion, and he instantly assumes the character,
and begins to roar and show his teeth and claws.
CREDENCIVE INDUCTION. 187
It has long been known that very susceptible subjects may-
be deluded and -willed into almost any state of mind ; but
it has not before been known that it requires less suscepti-
bility to perform these experiments than any other. It has
not been known that it is on this principle that most of the
successful experiments in neurology, pathetism and hyp-
notism are performed. The gentlemen who have conducted
these experiments were evidently ignorant of the real agent
that produced the phenomena.
It is a fact, capable of being easily demonstrated, that
nearly all of the subjects of Dr. Buchanan, or any other
operator, can be made to believe anything, or to assume
any character, or to conform to the wishes, expressed or
implied, of the operator ; and this can be done when they
are affected in the very least degree, while they are wide
awake, and appear to know what they are about. They
cannot resist an assertion. Put your words in the form of
an inquiry, and they are powerless—for instance, ask the
subject, " Can you raise your hand}" and he will raise it
;
but assert—" you cannot raise your hand," and he cannot do
it. The same is true of any other assertion, as, "you can-
not speak," " you cannot speak without lisping," " you
cannot speak without stuttering," " you cannot stop,"
"you cannot rise," " you finger is wounded and bleeding,"
" your hair is wool," " your hands are iron," or " fish" or
" fire," " you are a child" or " an old man." Any of these
assertions produce an instantaneous effect.
Let the subject suppose that you are going to excite the
organs of his brain—let him believe that you expect when
you touch a certain part of his head, that he will be affected
in a particular way, and he will generally use all his inge-
nuity to learn your wishes, and make his utmost endeavors
to oblige you and accomplish your expectations. This is
a fact which is undeniable, though it has not hitherto been
explained.
188 ETHEROPATHY.
Say to the subject, " I am going to excite your Comba-
tiveness, and you will be very angry." Now, touch his
Combativeness, and he will be angry—touch his Tune, and,
if he knows what organ you intended to touch, he will
begin to make music. If he even suspects what you wish,
he will oftentimes act accordingly. But if he has no idea
what you expect, he will do nothing. If the subject does
not know the location of any organ, and you say nothing
and give him no clue to your designs, you cannot excite his
organs by merely touching them. If you succeed in exciting
his organs when he is ignorant of your intention, it is done
by Will, by Sympathy, or by Clairvoyance—but touching
them, according to the method of Dr. Buchanan, is all a
farce, and the astounding discoveries which he has pre-
tended to make by this means, are a still greater farce : the
wonder is, that so many respectable men should have been
so grossly deceived by his experiments. In making these
remarks, I do not mean to be understood as impeaching the
integrity of Dr. Buchanan. I know but little of him, but I
suspect that he began by deceiving himself.
In order to explain these experiments we must first un-
derstand the nature of the organ of Credenciveness, the pro-
pensity to act upon testimony or assertion. It is a conform-
ing socialpropensity, and its natural stimulus is an assertion.
1. It is a, propensity, and operates like every other pro-
pensity. We must, in order to understand Credenciveness,
therefore, acquire a clear notion of the manner in which a
propensity operates. It produces a tendency to act in a
peculiar manner. It sends a current of Etherium through
the motor nerves to the muscles, and either originates a
motion or modifies a motion which other propensities origi-
nate. It antagonizes other propensities which are opposed
to it, and neutralizes them or combines with them.
It produces a state of Consciousness peculiar to itself, and
when predominant it causes other propensities and the in-
CREDENCIVE INDUCTION. 189
tellectual faculties to conform to it and act as its auxili-
aries.
When greatly excited by any extraordinary stimulus, it
governs the individual, and produces such uncontrolable
tendencies to gratify itself as to constitute a peculiar species
of monomania. This is a general definition and description
of a propensity such as Credenciveness is.
2. It is a social propensity, and every social propensity
gives a tendency to act with reference to others, and for the
benefit directly or indirectly of others. Social beings are
the objects from which its stimulus proceeds.
3. It is a conforming social propensity. The whole group
to which it belongs have this peculiar character, that they
all tend to conform to the wishes, feelings, actions, com-
mands and assertions of others.
The conforming socials, when predominant in an indi-
vidual, give him a yielding, obliging, credulous character,
and render him highly susceptible to the influence of per-
suasion, command, example, or assertion. These organs in-
clude Submissiveness, the propensity to obey
—
Kindness, the
propensity to oblige—Imitativeness, the propensity to sym-
pathize and to imitate—and Credenciveness, the propensity
believe and to act upon testimony.
4. The appropriate stimulus of Credenciveness is asser-
tion. It is the highest organ of the social class, and dis-
tinguishes man from the lower animals as much as any other
propensity, and perhaps more. Were it not for this, human
society would be reduced to an equally degraded condition
with that of the brutes.
The child believes and acts upon the assertion of his
parent instinctively, and thus avails himself of his ex-
perience and knowledge. The courts of justice are founded
upon the principle of belief; they act altogether upon the
testimony and assertions of others, and not from their own
experience and knowledge. History and tradition is based
190 ETHEROPATHY.
upon it; indeed all literature, and all the modes in which
we record or communicate the acts, the experience, or the
thoughts of others, are dependent upon Credenciveness.
Any expression of others excites it ; but an assertion made
by one who is supposed to be of superior authority, power,
or knowledge—this is its highest stimulus, and excites it to
its highest degree of activity—even to monomania. When
Credenciveness is uncommonly large, and Firmness and the
Reflectives small, an assertion, however extraordinary, is re-
ceived with confidence. It requires but little aid from mes-
meric or etherean induction to render some men mere ma-
chines in the hands of those whose assertions they believe.
Now we must consider that the tendency of etherizing or
inducting a subject, is, to bring him under the influence of
the operator ; to make him submit and sympathize, conform
and confide in the operator. Its first and most powerful
effect is, upon the conforming socials, to excite them, and
to exalt them to monomania. The conforming socials were
designed to be stimulated by the words and examples, the
actions and commands of others. Their very nature is such
as to cause their possessor to be influenced. They are pe-
culiarly open and susceptible to all kinds of stimuli which
tend to give others an influence over us ; and, of course,
they are peculiarly susceptible to the influence of the cur-
rents of Etherium, which proceed from the operator. If
they are more affected by his attempts to influence the sub-
ject, than any other organs are, it is because it is their
function—their nature—their vocation.
Let us now consider, that when a subject is perfectly
inducted, the mere silently expressed will of the operator
can influence him, and cause him to move or feel in any
desired way. No assertion in this case is necessary—no
sound—no sign—no external muscular motion. There is
nothing but the operation of the silent but potent will.
On the other hand, let us consider, that, when the sub-
CREDENCIVE INDUCTION. 191
ject is not inducted, but is in his ordinary and normal con-
dition, the will of the operator has no effect unless expressed
in a certain way, by voice or other sign, which the subject
perceives by the aid of his senses. Here we have two
opposite conditions ; one in which the subject is isolated
from the influence of the operator, except in a certain way
which the Creator has prescribed ; the other a condition
in which the isolation is entirely overcome, so that every
motion of the operator is a cause of motion in the subject.
Now, between these two extreme conditions of perfect
induction and non-induction, there are, of course, many in-
termediate states or degrees of induction.
What is the first degree ? What organs (in most cases)
first feel the effects of the inducting process ? I answer,
the conforming socials, and especially Credenciveness ; for,
if an assertion produced a certain degree of influence upon
the mind of the subject before the induction commenced, it
produces more and more as you proceed. At first your
assertion that he cannot open his eyes or raise his hand,
merely renders the movement difficult ; next it is more
difficult ; next it can only be done by a vigorous effort
;
then it cannot be done at all.
You can generally affect his eyes first, then his mouth
slightly, then his hands. His hands will at first be so slightly
affected, that when you assert that he cannot separate them,
you must hold them together lightly by pressing upon them ;
next they will adhere without pressure ; and, finally, pro-
ceeding from one step to another with a degree of rapidity
very different in different subjects, we acquire control over
every power of mind and body, so that he will frown, or
smile, or weep at our command or assertion merely. If
we proceed still farther, we gradually, in many subjects,
acquire a power of moving their organs by merely willing,
and without expressing our will by any sign ; but, in these
cases, though neither assertion nor sign is necessary to
192 ETHEROPATHY.
influence the subject, yet an assertion, if made, is wonder-
fully potent. The influence of assertions, and the disposi-
tion to conform, is in proportion to the degree of induction
of the conforming socials. It is generally supposed by those
who see experiments of this kind performed, that the oper-
ator accompanies his assertion by an effort of his will.
This, however, is not the case. If the operator makes an
assertion, it will have nearly as much effect though he wills
that it shall have no effect whatever. This proves that it
is the assertion and not the will. We are so constituted
that we take the assertion of our fellow beings as the true
expression of their will, and we sometimes believe them in
spite of all our efforts to resist the belief.
In order to understand these experiments, another pecu-
liarity of the mind must be taken into account, with which
keepers of the insane are familiar ; and that is that the na-
ture of delusion is such that the patient or subject is positive
that he is not deluded. To him it seems like reality and
truth ; his Consciousness does not inform him that one of his
propensities has obtained a mastery over the rest and is
misleading him. It is common to see insane persons be-
lieving themselves to be animals, plants, or glass vessels ;
and the most positive and palpable proof of their error has
no^ convincing effect upon their minds. Indeed we see
many persons, who are generally supposed to be sane, who
being possessed with a favorite idea seem incapable of ap-
preciating the most conclusive arguments which show its
erroneousness. In these cases I presume that there is a
slight degree of monomania.
We also find many insane persons who are rational on
every subject but one, and the instant that is mentioned
they betray the highest degree of monomania.
The antagonism of the organs must also be understood, in
order to explain the hesitation, doubt and wavering which
subjects often exhibit when but slightly affected- It is com-
CREDENCIVE INDUCTION. 193
mon for them to deny that they believe the assertion of the
operator, and yet they will act as if they do believe it ; for
instance : say to the subject—" That piece of silver is red-
hot and will burn you if you touch it ;" he will perhaps ans-
wer that he does not believe it and will advance towards it
and put forth his hand to touch it, but the very way in
which he moves shows that he suspects, at least, that it
may be true. He first holds his fingers very near, then
cautiously touches it, and perhaps expresses his surprise
that it is actually hot. Sometimes, though rarely, he will
say, " I know it is not so, though it seems so ;" ask him
how he knows that it is not really so, and he will ans-
wer, that former experience and the testimony of all around,
that he is deluded by the inductive operation, make him
think that it must be so, though his senses assure him that they
are all mistaken. This contradiction arises, in a great meas-
ure, from the opposing effects of the Ipseals and the gov-
erning socials, especially Imperativeness and Firmness.
They are the natural antagonists of the conforming socials ;
they give a tendency to act independently of the influence
of others ; and it is from them that the suggestions arise in
opposition to the assertions of the operator, when those as-
sertions contradict our own experience.
If the process of induction did not operate as a stimulus
to the conforming socials in particular—if it stimulated the
governing equally with the conforming socials, the experi-
ments which depend upon the influence of assertion could
not be performed at all.
Strange as it may seem, however, it is a fact, that a per-
son of intelligence and education, with whom I am acquaint-
ed, although I have explained to him the nature of the in-
fluence which I have obtained over him—although he knows
as well as I do that it is his own Credenciveness thatparal-
izes his muscles, yet when I assert that he cannot open his
eyes, he instantly loses all control over them.
194 ETHEROPATHY.
Such is the nature of Credenciveness, that it responds to
its appropriate stimulus involuntarily and irresistibly. In
this respect it is like Sanativeness or Pneumativeness, or
any other propensity. When Sanativeness receives its ap-
propriate stimulus, it instantly acts, and with uncontrolable
power. For instance—when we are wounded or burned
we cannot help feeling pain, for Sanativeness is instantly
roused and produces pain and a kind of action calculated to
relieve the pain. This affection of Sanativeness is irresisti-
ble and involuntary ;
precisely so it is with Credenciveness
when excited by an assertion.
But there is another and more complicated process to be
explained. When the operator asserts that a piece of silver
will burn the subject's finger if he touches it, the assertion
being the natural stimulus of Credenciveness, of course,
excites it ; the subject touches the piece of silver and in-
stantly feels pain. Now pain is a state of Consciousness
produced by Sanativeness, and not by Credenciveness ; and
an assertion is not the appropriate stimulus of Sanativeness.
The question is, what roused Sanativeness ? If the asser-
tion did not excite it, what did ? I answer, that the assertion
excited Credenciveness ; and Credenciveness, through Con-
sciousness, excited Sanativeness ; according to the principle
which I have explained in the article upon the inter-phreno
senses. It must, however, be constantly borne in mind, that
the brain of the etherized or inducted subject is in a condi-
tion which renders it liable to be affected in an extreme and
morbid degree. The principle that one highly stimulated
organ may etherize or induct the rest of the brain, or that
it may at least act as auxiliary to the operator, is of very
great importance in explaining the fact that a subject can be
put to sleep without the will of the operator.
I say, for instance, to a subject, " Sit down, close your eyes
and let me put you to sleep." He sits down and I put my
hand upon him, or stand and look at him, or pretend to look
SYMPATHY. 195
at him, and pretend to be willing him to sleep ; though, in
fact, I am thinking all the time of something else ;
perhaps
I am actually willing that he shall not go to sleep ;
yet he
does go to sleep just as usual. Now in this case his own
Credenciveness was the principal operator, and inducted all
the other organs—neutralized some and made others auxili-
aries. Again ; I say to the subject, " To-morrow at one
o'clock you will go to sleep." When the time arrives he
actually goes to sleep, unless he forgets my assertion. I have
known them to forget, and, in that case, not be affect-
ed at all when the time arrived. Does not this prove that
the power that affects them is within themselves ?
Credenciveness may be excited to a peculiar and morbid
action by the process of the operator, or by disease ; but,
when thus excited, it produces the phenomena without any
other aid from external influences. This explanation of
the nature of Credenciveness, is a key to most of the won-
derful experiments and discoveries of Buchanan and Sun-
derland ; of Braid, Hall and Elliotson. It explains, also, the
apparent contradictions and absurdities which embarrassed
the celebrated French committee of which Dr. Franklin was
a member.
4. SYMPATHY PRODUCED EY INDUCTION.
When the inductive process has been completely success-
ful—when many of the organs of the operator have com-
municated their motions to the corresponding organs of the
subject, and have established such a connection that a move-
ment of the operator is immediately followed by a similar
movement of the subject, and a feeling of the operator's
mind is followed by a similar feeling in the mind of the
subject—this is sympathy ; and by the word sympathy I
mean a condition of the subject induced by the operator in
consequence of a connection and communication between
them ; —I mean a condition which is the effect of a similar
196 ETHEROPATHY.
condition of the operator. The condition of the operator
is the cause, and the condition of the subject is the effect. The
currents of Etherium from the organs of the operator to the
organs of the subject are the means by which the effect is
produced. The isolation of the organs of the subject was
an obstacle to the currents of the operator ; the process of
etherean induction removed or overcame the obstacle ; the
currents of the operator's Etherium, after having first moved
the organs of the operator himself, proceeded to the corres-
ponding organs of the subject and moved them in a similar
manner, though in a slighter degree. This is sympathy in
a strictly philosophical sense. Sometimes it is so perfect
that the very same ideas, thoughts, images, colors, forms
and sounds which occupy the mind of the operator, are
made to occupy the mind of the subject by sympathy.
The operator can put another person into communication
with the subject, and then the subject will sympathize with
him also in the same manner, and upon the same principle.
The only difficulty is in first overcoming the isolation.
When this is done, any person who is put into communica-
tion, may become the cause or object of the subject's sym-
pathy. The subject may read his thoughts and feelings by
sympathy.
In my " New System of Phrenology," I pointed out the
fact, for the first time, that normal sympathy depends upon
the organ of Imitativeness ; that being a conforming social
propensity, it gives a tendency to do as others do, and feel
as others feel ; and that, by giving a disposition to observe
and think upon what others do, in order to imitate them
and sympathize with them, it becomes an essential element
in the faculty of learning human nature. On page 292, I
stated that this organ contributes to give elevation to the
forehead, and added
—
u This explains why authors and
painters and orators, who have been most felicitous in their
descriptions of human nature, have high foreheads."
IMITATIVENESS. 197
Now, it may seem almost incredible to the candid and
honest reader, yet it is but too true, that after I and my
pupils had publicly taught this doctrine for years, and pub-
lished it in thousands of volumes all over the country, an
individual had the effrontery to pretend that he had discov-
ered the organ of Human JTature in the front part of Imi-
tativeness. The truth is, every organ of man is an organ of
human nature, and must be possessed by self in order to be
understood in others : but the social organs all o-ive a ten-
dency to leajn the minds of others. The conforming socials,
and particularly Imitativeness, give this tendency more than
any others ; it is in this sense only that there is any organ
in man relating to a knowledge of human nature. As I
have given much prominence to Credenciveness and Imita-
tiveness in this work, I will quote the following explanation
of them from my work on Phrenology :
11th. imitativeness.
This is the propensity- to copy the actions of superiors
—
to follow the example of those whom we reverence—to
adopt the manners and peculiarities of those with whom we
associate. It is very active during the early years of life,
before children are capable of judging of the propriety or
impropriety of their acts. It enables them to avail them-
selves of nearly all the practical advantages of their parent's
experience. A thousand little necessary arts, the nature of
which it would be impossible for them to understand, are
practiced instinctively under the influence of Imitativeness.
The organs of both Playfulness and Imitativeness are much
larger in children than adults, and they are both of very
great importance in education. I\Ian is termed, by Aristotle,
the imitative animal. Darwin remarks, that u Not only do
the greatest part of mankind learn all the common arts of
life by Imitation, but brute animals seem capable of acquir-
ing knowledge with greater facility by imitating each other,
198 ETHEROPATIIY.
than by any method by which man can teach them." " This
propensity to imitate, not only appears in the actions of
children, but in all the customs and fashions of the world.
Many thousands tread in the beaten paths of others, for one
who traverses regions of his own discovery."
Dr. Gall first discovered this organ in those who mani-
fested a talent for mimicking, and he therefore named it the
organ of Mimicry. Spurzheim and Combe considered it
the propensity of Imitation in general. I agree with those
eminent phrenologians so far as they have gene, but I do
not think that they have given sufficient importance to this
propensity ; nor taken into account the designs of the Cre-
ator in bestowing it. They have hitherto only spoken of it
as it is exhibited by mimics, actors, artists and dramatists ;
but these are its extraordinary manifestations, when pecu-
liarly combined with other powers. I consider Imitative-
ness a social propensity, designed to enable mankind to con-
form to the manners and habits of each other. It partially
supplies the power of reason before reason is ripe, by enabl-
ing the young, the ignorant and the inferior, to imitate
the actions of their parents, masters and other superiors.
Imitativeness is a conforming social propensity ; and nat-
urally acts in combination with Submissiveness. Although
we may imitate those whom we do not respect, that is not
the proper mode, but may be considered rather as an abuse,
and a deviation from its original intention. We always direct
the imitation of the young to the great and good, to those
whom we most respect, and whose example we consider
most worthy of imitation. In accordance with this fact is
the anatomical arrangement of the convolution of this or-
gan : it originates at Submissiveness, and runs forward par-
allel with Kindness, until it reaches the Reflectives. [See
the engraving of the bust.] Imitativeness should always be
explained in connection with Submissiveness ; it is a mere
superaddition to it, to carry out the plan of conformity.
IMITATIVENESS. 199
There is also an intimate relation between Kindness and
and this propensity. Imitativeness disposes us to conceive
the feelings of others, and Kindness is a propensity to grati-
fy those feelings. The feeling of sympathy, in my opinion,
depends principally upon Imitativeness. When explaining-
Kindness, I stated that in order to pity others, we must first
experience similar feelings to theirs ; and in order to expe-
rience similar feelings, we must possess similar organs.
Kindness is superadded to the other propensities, to dispose
us to gratify the feelings which those propensities produce
;
and Imitativeness is superadded, to dispose us to understand
those feelings that we may be the better enabled to gratify
them. Darwin says, " Imitation is repetition, which is the
easiest kind of animal action." If this definition is correct,
then this is a propensity to repeat the actions of others
;
and not their actions only, but their dress and language
and mechanical performances. Now, if my views are cor-
rect, sympathy is a repetition in our own minds, of the feel-
ings of others, and depends upon this propensity. " Many
young men," says Darwin, " fall sick on seeing surgical
operations performed, and even feel pain in the same part
of their own bodies ; that is, they in some measure imitate
in their own fibres, the violent actions which they witness
in those or others." " The effect of this powerful agent,
Imitation, in the moral world, is the foundation of all our
mental sympathies with the pains and pleasures of others
;
and is, in consequence, the source of all our virtues. For in
what consists our sympathies with the miseries, or with the
joys of our fellow-creatures, but in an involuntary excitation
of ideas in some measure similar, or imitative of those which
we believe to exist in the minds of the persons whom we
commiserate or congratulate ?"
Sympathy, is a term which is frequently used as if it
was synonymous with pit}- ; but pity is a feeling produced
by Kindness, and sympathy is a feeling produced princi-
200 ETHEROPATHY.
pally by Imitativeness. As Imitativeness and Kindness
naturally act together, and are generally combined with
other propensities, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish
which has the greatest share in producing the mingled emo-
tions. In some late examinations which I have made of
the human brain, I found that the furrow which separates
Kindness from Imitativeness, is very shallow, being not
more than half an inch deep ; whereas the furrow between
Credenciveness and Imitativeness is more than an inch and
a half. This anatomical fact coincides with these views,
and explains why the two organs are so apt to act in com-
bination, and mutually to excite each other. When ex-
plaining Kindness, I showed that it always acts in combina-
tion with one or more of the lower propensities ; I now add,
that it also acts, in every well-balanced mind, in combina-
tion with Imitativeness ; and what is commonly understood
by the term sympathy, when applied to the joys and sorrows
of others, is a compound feeling, produced by the united
action of those two propensities. For instance, if one of
our neighbors has lost his child, our Parentiveness, Kind-
ness and Imitativeness combine to produce towards him the
feeling of sympathy. If cur Parentiveness is large, judging
by our own experience, we conclude that he must be deep-
ly afflicted ; but this is not sympathy. If our Kindness is
large, we pity him, and are anxious to do all in our power
to console him ; but neither is this sympathy. Now, if our
Imitativeness is large, we not only pity him, but we join
with him in lamenting the loss of the child—we feel as he
feels, but not so intensely. This is sympathy : pity is di-
rected towards him, but sympathy is a feeling that mingles
with his, and flows on in the same course : the only differ-
ence is, that his is the main current that draws the others
for a time in the same direction.
A person having Imitativeness very large, with Kindness
small, will be able to conceive how another feels—will, as
IMITATIVENESS. 201
it were, imitate or repeat imperfectly in his own mind, the
feelings of others ; but will have no very strong desire to
gratify, or relieve them : yet this is one kind of sympathy ;
though not such as proceeds from a well balanced mind.
Lavater remarks, in substance, that by imitating the expres-
sion of another, we may partially experience his feelings ;
and I doubt not that this is true, especially of those who
have Imitativeness very large.
Spurzheim, Combe and all other phrenologians, agree in
denominating this propensity a feeling of imitation ; but
imitation is an action produced by the propensity of Imita-
tiveness. It would be absurd to say " I feel imitation ;" but
it is perfectly proper to say " I act in imitation ;" and it is
also proper to say " I feel sympathy." I therefore name
this the propensity of Imitativeness,—the feeling which it
produces I call sympathy,—and the actions which it pro-
duces I denominate imitations. If the term sympathy does
not convey the precise idea of the feeling produced by Imi-
tativeness, then I know of none in our language that does.
I have, in writing this work, often felt a necessity for new
terms, to express more precisely the different feelings ; and
I doubt not that as the science continues to progress, im-
provements will be introduced in this important part of the
nomenclature of mental philosophy.
Those who have this organ large, are capable of conform-
ing to the manners and habits of those with whom they
associate, much more readily than those who have it mode-
rately developed ; they seem to have the power of approach-
ing in a proper and successful manner, those who occupy
eminent stations. They are more easy and graceful in their
manners, and can readily adapt themselves to the feelings,
actions and situations of others. It is large in those who
are capable of representing the feelings and actions of others,
in writing, or speech ; and no man can easily excel as an
actor, orator, artist, dramatic author, ventriloquist, dancer,
202 ETHEROPATHY.
or musician, unless this is fairly developed. In proof of
this, we find it large in the portraits, or heads, of all who
are eminent in either of these professions. It gives the
dramatic author the power of calling up in his own mind
the same train of ideas and feeling, that he supposes the
character to possess whom he describes ; and having thus,
as it were, imbued himself with their spirit, and made their
case his own, he proceeds to pour out their feelings in lan-
guage such as that of Shakspeare, Voltaire, Walter Scott,
and other writers of this class. If they are public speakers,
their elocution will be graceful and appropriate ; such as
that of Henry Clay. If they are actors, their personations
will be striking representatives of real life. If they are
artists, they will copy the works of others, or nature, in
such a manner as very much to resemble the original.
Imitativeness is intimately related to the intellect. The
organ runs forward from Submissiveness, until it terminates
in the Reflective Faculties ; accordingly we find that its
operation is very much modified by the degree and manner
in which the intellect is developed. If the Reflectives are
large they give originality to the thoughts, they check the
improper activity of Imitativeness, and give a disposition to
imitate or adopt principles, instead of actions. If the Re-
flectives are not large, and the Perceptives are much
developed, then there will be a manifestation of practical,
or mechanical imitation ; such as is manifested by mimics,
and superfical geniuses, who can quickly learn to perform
operations, the nature of which they are incapable of under-
standing. Those authors who are incapable of reasoning
profoundly, but who can write racily and pictorially, and
readily adapt their style to the subject, will invariably be
found to have moderate reflectives, and large perceptives
and Imitativeness. They
" Catch the manners living as they rise."
IMITATIVENESS. 203
They describe things as they see and feel and hear them,
but do not attempt to account for them. Most of the writ-
ings of novelists are of this character.
I have never seen a good actor, however large his Imita-
tiveness might be, who had not large perceptives.
This propensity sometimes combines with the other high
propensities and the reflectives, and manifests itself only in
a moral way, by conforming to the precepts and following
the moral and religious examples of others. Such persons
are apt to suppose that they should have the organ small,
because they have never manifested it in a mimicking, or
a mechanical way ; but this common error is owing to the
manner in which the propensity has been explained. Phre-
nologians have hitherto treated it as a peculiarity of artists
and dramatists, and have almost entirely overlooked its
higher and nobler purposes, as a conforming social propen-
sity, superadded to Submissiveness and Kindness : the fact
is, the manner in which it is manifested, depends much
upon the organs with which it is combined.
There are some species of animals that manifest Imita-
tiveness very distinctly, particularly the monkey tribes
;
and I have found the organ plainly developed in the brains
of animals, as the swine, cat, dog, horse, &c, some of
which manifest it in so low a degree that we should not
have suspected them of possessing it ; but it is probably
useful to them as a social propensity."
It should be mentioned that subjects are apt to be seized
with a most ludicrous disposition to imitate every one whom
they see, or with whom they are in communication. I do
not now refer to the sympathy which I have been describing,
but they imitate, just as they do in the normal state, by
looking at a thing, or feeling its motions, and then repeating
or imitating;. It would seem that all the conforming; socials
are excited by induction, and their activity explains many
curious phenomena. It accounts most satisfactorily for
204 ETHEROPATHY.
their disposition to conform to the wishes of the operator,
and to endeavor to make all his plans and experiments suc-
ceed, so that it almost always seems as if there is collusion
between the operator and the subject, while, in fact, they
are both perfectly honest and innocent in their intentions.
The subject deceives by endeavoring to gratify, what he
believes to be the wishes of the operator.
12th. credenciveness, or marvelousness.
" This is the propensity to act upon the testimony of
others—to give credence to the assertions, and conform to
the opinions of those with whom we associate, and whom
we reverence. It is intimately related to Submissiveness
;
and usually acts in combination with it. The convolution
of the brain which constitutes this organ, originates at Sub-
missiveness, forms a kind of elbow against Hopefulness, and
runs forward to Causality. This arrangement is not with-
out an important and obvious purpose. Although it is true
that every organ in the brain is in some degree related to
every other organ, yet there is a more intimate relation
between some than others ; and those which associate most
in action will be found to be associated and arranged to-
gether in the brain. These remarks apply with peculiar
force to Submissiveness, Credenciveness and Hopefulness.
We give most credence to those whom most we reverence,
and our hopes are greatly modified by our belief, while both
hope and faith are very dependent upon Causality.
I consider this propensity as designed, like all the others,
to produce actions, or to modify actions which other pro-
pensities originate. Marvelousness and Wonder are feel-
ings, which, under some circumstances, precede the actions,
just as pity precedes the actions produced by Kindness. In
order to determine the kind of actions which Credencive-
ness produces, we must consider the relation which it bears
to Submissiveness, and to the other propensities ; and en-
CREDENCIVENESS. 205
deavor to ascertain its utility in promoting the harmonious
operations of society. It is my opinion, that belief in testi-
mony of all kinds, depends upon this propensity. Faith,
belief, conviction, are its ordinary affections, when acting
in combination with the intellect, upon a subject that can
be understood. Wonder and Marvelousness are caused by
its operation when the subject is extraordinary, and not fully
understood. Combined with Submissiveness, it disposes to
faith in the testimony of others, on account of our respect
for their characters. This principle is recognized in all
courts, that the more exalted and honorable the character
of the witness, the more credit is due to his testimony.
The organ is much larger in children than adults, and
enables them to rely with perfect confidence in the state-
ments of their parents. Such is the constitution of their
minds, that they believe the most extraordinary thing upon
the bare assertion of their parents or guardians. And this
is necessary in order to govern and guide them, in cases
where they have no experience, of their own.
When explaining Hopefulness, the highest of the Ipseals,
I stated that it is related to futurity through the medium of
Causality. The same is true of Credenciveness. That
which is present, and subject to the test of the senses and
lower Perceptives, cannot be a subject of belief—it is posi-
tive knowledge. But when any thing is absent, or con-
tingent, or to come, it is then a legitimate subject for the
exercise of this propensity. It is more dependent upon
Causality than any of the other Socials ; and is much more
directly related to it. In the brain, the convolution of Cre-
denciveness seems to go forward on purpose to join Cau-
sality. Indeed, the Reflectives can hardly be said to guide
the Socials, except through the medium of this important
propensity. Firmness, Submissiveness and Conscientious-
ness are greatly affected by a change in belief.
Every proposition, the truth of which we cannot test by
206 ETHEROPATHY.
the evidence of our own senses, if it is probable, or even
possible, is calculated to excite and gratify Credenciveness.
But its most natural stimulus is the testimony of intelligent
beings. I consider it as specially designed to make us act
upon the testimony of others, and particularly of our supe-
riors, in cases where we cannot have the evidence of our
senses. Impressions enter through the senses to the Per-
ceptives, and are analyzed, classed and connected by the
Reflectives. Causality performs the last and highest pro-
cess of intellect ; and if the proposition is not perfectly
self-evident, it becomes a matter of belief or of skepticism ;
that is, it becomes an appropriate stimulus for Credencive-
ness. This propensity is, of course, modified in its action
according to the nature of the subject, the amount of evi-
dence, the proportion of Credenciveness to intellect, and
the effect which it is to have upon our interests, or our
hopes. Whether an individual will be skeptical or credu-
lous, depends upon the proportion which his intellect bears
to Credenciveness and Submissivenss. Those who have
very high but shallow foreheads, are apt to be foolishly credu-
lous ; and those who have low and prominent foreheads, are
inclined to skepticism. They wish to investigate much and
believe but little. There is a third class who have fore-
heads wide, high and prominent—they love to believe when
they can; but they cannot without proper investigation. They
examine thoroughly, and believe sincerely, many contro-
verted doctrines—they seem to take pleasure in revolving
in their minds doubtful subjects, even if they cannot quite
believe them. If it is something which challenges be-
lief—if it has probability or even possibility in its favor, it
is a proper subject to stimulate and delight this propensity,
and produce the feeling of marvelousness. This enables
us to understand the character of novelists and romancers
and dramatic authors, such as Scott, Voltaire, Shakspeare
and Tasso, who all had very high foreheads, particularly
CREDENCIVENESS. 207
in the region of this organ and Imitativeness. Those who
have been remarkable for faith upon religious subjects, have
the same development, combined with Submissiveness.
Such are Bunyan, Baxter, Swedenborg, Irving, Wesley
and hundreds with whom I am acquainted.
I consider this as one of the most important elements of a
love of knowledge. The ability or the talent of knowing,
depends upon the iutellect—but the desire, the love, the
proneness to learn, depends upon the propensities. Each
propensity produces a desire to know that which will be
gratifying to itself. The highest gratification of Credencive-
ness consists in knowing what people have said or written.
It is easy, therefore, to understand why those who have it
large should be very fond of reading or hearing the extra-
ordinary assertions of others, and of inquiring into their
truth. If the intellect is large, they will be commonly suc-
cessful in their inquiries ; but if it is small, they may be in-
duced to give credence to the most absurd statements. It is
this propensity that makes us love to hear or read extraor-
dinary things, even if we do not believe them. It seems as
if some love to stretch their faith to its utmost, just to give
it exercise ; the more marvelous the story, the better it
suits them : and if Submissiveness is large, and the state-
ment is made upon high authority, it becomes perfectly
charming. This organ is larger in youth than adults, and
women than men. It accounts for the love of the marvel-
ous manifested by children ; for the pernicious novel read-
ing habits of girls ; and for the ease with which impostors of
all descriptions succeed with the generality of females. I
have noticed that those women, who in youth read the most
novels, and the least science, in maturer years are the most
prone to superstition and fanaticism. They are much greater
sticklers for matters of mere faith and form, than for moral
and christian practice.
The exposition which I have made of this propensity,
208 ETHEROPATHY.
shows that it is one of very great importance in society. It
is the grand lever, by means of which the few can govern
the many more despotically than by any other. It is for
this reason that the union of church and state is a desirable
object with all despots, and adds immensely to their power.
This is plainly, then, a conforming Social propensity
;
since it is the means by which children and all ignorant
persons are guided. Nothing renders a man more ungov-
ernable, or unamiable, than a disposition to doubt every
thing he hears ; and to rely entirely upon his own judgment
and observation, instead of giving due weight to the testi-
mony of others.
In regard to the lower animals, it is more difficult to
show that they possess Credenciveness, than any of the
other Socials. It is certain than they have it in a less de-
gree than any of the others, which alone is sufficient to
prove its exalted nature.
It is worthy of remark, that Hopefulness, the highest
Ipseal, Credenciveness, the highest Social, and Causality,
the highest Intellectual, are connected together at the
top of the brain ; and it is curious to study the relation in
which these three important powers stand to each other,
and to the Perceptives. The Lower and Middle Percep-
tives are related to that which is perceptible, present and
certain. The Reflectives, to that which is certain, but
which is not present to the senses ; and which is known
only by deduction. Credenciveness to that which is pro-
bable, and Hopefulness to that which is possible. We may
hope for that which we do not believe—we may believe
what we cannot prove by reasoning ; and we may prove by
reasoning what we cannot test by the senses and Percep-
tives.
The region of perception is at the base of the brain ; —of
reflection, a little higher ;
[see bust,] of credence, in the
upper part of the forehead ; and hope a little farther back.
CREDENCIVENESS. 209
In a well balanced mind, these will bear a just proportion
to each other ; and in making an examination, it is of the
very highest importance that the relative development of
the lower and upper parts of the forehead should be com-
pared with each other, since they have an important mutual
influence. Those who have excelled in practical science,
have the lower predominant ; and those who have excelled
in fiction, the upper ; while those who have avoided both
extremes are balanced.
10
SECTION XI.
ETHEROPATHY— CONTINUED.
5. Clairvoyance, or un-isolated perception, produced
by the process of induction overcoming isolation.
When the subject, without the aid of his senses, by his
connection with the operator, perceives the same things
which are perceived by the operator, it is perception by
sympathy ; but when the subject, without the aid of his
senses, perceives that which is not perceived by the opera-
tor, it is Clairvoyance.
The difference in principle between sympathy and Clair-
voyance is very slight. The only difference is in the objects
from which the currents of Etherium are evolved. When
the organ of Consciousness and its dependent organs in the
operator, are the points from which the emanation is evolved
to the organ of Consciousness and other organs of the subject,
the result is sympathy ; but when the motion of Etherium is
evolved from any other point, through abnormal avenues,
to the subject's organ of Consciousness, it is Clairvoyance.
The term Clairvoyance is from from two French words, and
strictly signifies Clear-seeing : although some word which is
more precisely significant of un-isolated perception would be
preferred, yet as there is no such word I shall adopt this,
which has the advantage of being in common use, and in our
language it has no other meaning.
In order to understand Clairvoyance, we must consider
CLAIRVOYANCE. 211
*
1st. The emanations of etherean motion from the objects
perceived.
2d. The isolation and induction of the brain.
3d. The modus operandi of Consciousness.
1st. Emanation of motion from the objects perceived.—We
never perceive any thing unless when there is an etherean
emanation from the object perceived. When ordinarily
we see a thing, there is always an emanation of light
from it to the eye. When we hear any thing, there is an
emanation of serial vibrations from the object heard to the
ear. When we smell any thing, there is an emanation of
odorous particles from the odorous body. When we taste
any thing, there is an emanation from the substance tasted,
caused by the chemical action of the saliva upon the sub-
stance. When we perceive any thing by touch, there is a
motion emanating from the substance touched and passing
to the brain, which motion was produced by the mechani-
cal act of touching. When we feel pain, there is an ema-
nation from the painful and injured part to the nerve which
is connected with it, passing along the nerve to the organ of
Sanativeness, from the organ of Sanativeness to Conscious-
ness, producing there the feeling or consciousness of pain.
The same reasoning applies to hunger ; it is produced by
an emanation from the stomach to Alimentiveness, and from
Alimentiveness to Consciousness. Suffocation is produced
by an emanation from the lungs to Pneumativeness, and from
this organ to Consciousness.
In Clairvoyance, the same principle is in operation.
There is an emanation from the object perceived to the
central organ of Consciousness in the subject. There can-
not possibly be any perception of any kind unless there is
such emanation.
2d. The Isolation and Induction of the brain. —This I
have already explained as far as it relates to the communi-
12 ETHEROPATHY.
»
cation of thought and motion from the operator to the sub-
ject—as far as relates, in truth, to one branch of Clairvoy-
ance, viz. : Sympathetic Clairvoyance. The same isolating
contrivance which prevents the motions of different persons,
and different organs of the same person, from interfering
with each other—the very same contrivance has been in-
stituted by the all-wise Creator to restrict and limit our
perceptions. When we consider that motions of Etherium
from the circumference of the brain to the centre produce
different states of Consciousness ; when we also consider
that every surrounding object in nature is continually re-
ceiving and evolving emanations ; we of course must ac-
knowledge that some contrivance is necessary to prevent
the brain from being continually agitated, and our Conscious-
ness from being continually excited and confused by the in-
numerable currents and motions of Etherium which are
constantly evolved from the infinite number of objects
around us. This contrivance is Isolation; a peculiarity of
the structure of organized bodies, which prevents nearly all
external influences from interfering with their operations,
while it admits external influences which are useful to
them. In what the isolation consists, we know not ; we
are certain of the fact that by some contrivance the isola-
tion is effected, but we are, as yet, entirely ignorant of the
mode in which it is effected.
The eyes are not influenced by sounds, nor the ears by
light, but Consciousness is indirectly affected by both. The
reason is, that the eyes are isolated from all other influences
except the stimulus of the light, and the ears are isolat-
ed from all other influences except the stimulus of sound.
If we had no eyes we should be entirely ignorant of the
existence of light, because all our other organs are isolated
from its influence. A blind man, who never heard of light
until the age of thirty, would be perfectly skeptical con-
cerning its existence. It would be incomprehensible to
CLAIRVOYANCE. 213
him that things could be perceived by eyes, at such great
distances, while by ears they could not be perceived at all.
Not having any experience of his own on the subject, he
would necessarily be dependent upon the testimony of
those about him who professed to have this wonderful facul-
ty. Very much the same is it with us in reference to clair-
voyant subjects. We cannot see without our eyes, nor
hear without our ears, nor feel without contact ; but the
inducted subject can do all this ; he, with his eyes closed and
carefully bandaged, can see, or rather can perceive through
walls impervious to light and sound, and at immense dis-
tances—can perceive, indeed, in a way as incomprehensible
to us as the perceiving with eyes was to the blind man. The
blind man could not conceive of the existence of any fluid,
or medium, or menstruum, finer than air. He was wholly
ignorant concerning light, which is millions of times finer
and more subtile than air, and can therefore penetrate where
air cannot, and communicate its motions with a degree of
rapidity, and to a distance of which air is altogether inca-
pable. Yet it is very evident that there are other motions
exceedingly more rapid than those of light. La Place de-
monstrated, in 1773, that u the attractive force of gravity must
be transmitted fifty million times faster than light, which travels
at the rate of two hundred thousand miles in a second." (
See
u Lectures on the Progress of the Physical Sciences," by Prof.
Thompson, of the University of Glasgow.)
Light cannot penetrate boards and stone walls, but mag-
netic Etherium can do so ; for a magnet affects iron filings
through such obstacles, almost as if there was nothing in
the way ; and so also does gravitation. It is plain that if
we could perceive through the medium of this motion of
Etherium instead of light, we could see through boards and
walls as easily as the magnet operates through them ; for
the magnet operates in the dark just as well as in the light.
We must conclude, therefore, from the great number of
214 ETHEROPATHY.
facts which we have upon this subject, that there is an
Etherium, or a motion of Etherium, different from light, by
means of which the force of gravitation is communicated ;
and another modification of Etherium, by means of which
magnetism penetrates through opaque bodies. It, therefore,
requires no stretch of the imagination to admit a modifica-
tion of Etherium which affects the brain and its organs, and
produces Consciousness and Clairvoyance in a subject who
is, by the process of etherean induction, brought into com-
munication with it.
If we analyze a sunbeam, we can demonstrate that besides
light and heat it contains another kind or motion of Ethe-
rium, different from light and heat, which produces power-
ful chemical effects ; and yet we have no senses given to us
by which to enable us to perceive by its means, though it
may sometimes abnormally induct us and produce clairvoy-
ant perception.
It seems to me, that that there cannot be a doubt in the
mind of a philosopher who examines this subject carefully,
that there is a peculiar form or modification of Etherium,
which has, with some propriety, been denominated animal
magnetism, and which is concerned in producing all the phe-
nomena of animal life and all the wonders of Etheropathy
and mesmerism. We seem forced to this conclusion as the
only one which will account for facts which we are not able
to controvert.
If we take a magnet and bring it near to a piece of iron,
and make a number of passes across the iron, the peculiar
motions of the magnet are communicated to the iron so
that it becomes a magnet itself. This is Induction. A piece
of iron cannot be placed near a magnet for any considerable
time without becoming in some degree inducted, losing
its own independent motions and submitting to the influence
of the neighboring magnet. Precisely so it is with the in-
CLAIRVOYANCE. 215
ducted subject ; the cases are as nearly parallel as the dif-
ferent natures of the two bodies will admit.
3d. The mode in which the organs normally pro-
duce Consciousness, after they are impressed by emanations
from external objects, must be understood in order to ena-
ble us to understand Clairvoyance.
They produce Consciousness precisely in the same way
in Clairvoyance as they do in ordinary normal perception.
The difference between Clairvoyant perception and com-
mon normal perception is in the manner in which the phre-
no-organs are excited by the emanation ; or rather it depends
upon the different modes by which emanations reach the
phreno-organs to excite them to action. In common percep-
tion the motion of Etherium is restricted to pass in certain
prescribed avenues which we denominate the senses ; but in
Clairvoyance, in consequence of the isolation being over-
come, the emanation passes directly to the brain through
the skull, or through the feet, or hands, or sides, or through
an}* other part where the isolation is especially weakened.
In common perception the emanation is permitted to reach
the brain only through certain limited, denned and restricted
avenues or senses ; and even through these passages the pure
and unencumbered motions of Etherium do not seem to be
allowed to pass. In the sense of taste the Etherium is con-
veyed to (or moved in) the external organ by a liquid
which dissolves the substance tasted. In the sense of smell
the motions are conveyed by currents of air, which are adul-
terated, or mingled with atoms of the odorous substance
perceived. In the sense of hearing, the emanation is con-
veyed in pulsations or vibrations of air. In the sense of
sight, the emanation is conveyed or moved by currents,
pulsations, or rays of light.
But in Clairvoyance the brain seems to be excited by
Etherium in a different state—by emanations which are ordi-
216 ETHEROPATHY.
narily excluded by isolation—and which are introduced in
opposition to the isolating guards. When this more pure
emanation is fairly introduced, and a current of it caused to
proceed from a distant object to the subject, it passes direct-
ly through the skull, or some other abnormal passages, and
reaches the organs of Form and Color, &c, and excites them
so as to cause them to produce a state of Consciousness the
same as if the subject had seen the distant object with his
eyes. I wish the idea to be distinctly understood, that Con-
sciousness and perception of every kind is, in all cases, pro-
duced by the Phreno-organs of the brain ; that in common
perception and in Clairvoyance, the brain, operates in the
same manner. In both cases the Phreno-organs must be ex-
cited and must perform their functions before perception
can take place. It is a great error to suppose that in Clair-
voyance a person can perceive without his brain because he
perceives without his senses. It is absurd to suppose that
a person perceives color without the organ of color, because
he perceives without his eyes.
In order, then, to explain Clairvoyance, it is only neces-
sary to admit that the Phreno-organs of perception may
be excited through other avenues than the external senses.
According to this explanation, Clairvoyance is no more
mysterious than any other phenomena of Etheropathy or
mesmerism. Many persons are willing to admit that sleep
may be produced by the inducting process, but deny Clair-
voyance as impossible ; but it will now be perceived that it
requires no new principle to explain Clairvoyance after the
etherean or mesmeric sleep is admitted ; for sleep and sym-
pathy and Clairvoyance are produced in the same way, by
the same agent and the same process applied to different
objects.
The inquiry will naturally arise, " Why did not the Cre-
ator endow us all with the powers of Clairvoyance ? Why
should such a wonderful power be withheld from the most
CLAIRVOYANCE. 217
perfect and healthy men, and yet be occasionally bestowed
upon some weak and debilitated individual." To my mind,
the reason is obvious. The Creator has placed us in a situa-
tion where a certain amount of knowledge is necessary to
enable us to perform our duties, and he has bestowed upon
us organs so contrived as to enable us to acquire this know-
ledge with ease, provided we make a proper use of the
means which he has placed within our reach and the powers
which he has bestowed upon us. A greater amount of know-
ledge, instead of being a blessing, would be injurious, and
it is withheld from us in mercy ; every animal in existence
will be found to have the means of acquiring knowledge
enough to harmonize with his condition and to enable him
to satisfy his wants. More knowledge would be an em-
barrassment.
Suppose that a man could hear every movement which
takes place not only on the earth but in the most distant of
the innumerable planets ; and suppose he could see every
thing in existence, would it not be a source of inconceiva-
ble annoyance ? would it not render his life a burden ? I
do not doubt that an omniscient man would be utterly mis-
erable. It is enough for us, then, that we are so organized,
that by making an industrious use "of our powers, we can
learn all that it is necessary for us to know in order to en-
able us to fulfil our destiny according to the designs of the
Supreme Creator.
But still you will ask, why the power of Clairvoyance is
bestowed upon some persons ? I answer, that Clairvoyance
is the result of weakness. It is in itself a species of disease,
and like all other diseases it is a violation of the natural
laws of the constitution. It was never intended by the
Creator, so far as his intention is indicated in the organiza-
tion of man, that such a power should be possessed by man
;
for, instead of making any provision for it, (as he would
doubtless have done if he had designed it,) the Creator has
10*
218 ETHEROPATHY.
ordained a most wonderful series of regulations to prevent
it. By isolating the organs and giving them limits and res-
trictions, he has virtually said to each of them, thus far
shalt thou go with propriety, and produce happiness, but no
farther. Clairvoyance is an overleaping of the bounds to
reach the forbidden fruit of the tree of prohibited knowledge.
My object in making these remarks is not to prevent any
one from making use of this means of acquiring knowledge,
but to convey a clear expression of the view which I take
of the real nature of Clairvoyance, and to rebut the absurd
doctrine of Sunderland, Buchanan and others, that Clair-
voyance depends upon a peculiar organ which was bestowed
upon man for that very purpose.
SECTION XIL
ETHEROPATHY —CONTINUED.
6. Deranged function produced by induction. —This prin-
ciple, combined with the principles of Will, Sympathy,
Credence and Clairvoyance, account for all the phenomena
and explain all the experiments, whether they are known
under the name of Neurology, Pathetism, Hypnotism, or
Mesmerism : for they are in reality but so many instances
of peculiar derangement—of abnormal condition—of depar-
ture from proper and healthful operations.
This is true of the Sympathy, Clairvoyance and Creden-
cive delusion which I have already explained ; and, by ap-
plying these principles, we may unravel any case, however
difficult, and reduce it to such simple terms that any person
of common intelligence can understand it.
Bearing in mind the principles which I have already ad-
vanced and the explanations which I have made, let us
apply them to analyze the different phenomena which have
been the subject of discussion and experiment by those who
have most attracted public attention.
The subject may be discussed under the following heads :
1. Etheropathic, or mesmeric sleep.
2. Manifestations of uncommon strength.
3. Conferring extraordinary power upon medicine, water-
motion, and other substances.
4. Discovering diseases, their location, cause and cure.
220 ETHEROPATHY.
5. Reading the characters of persons with whom the
subjects are in communication.
6. Discoveries in phrenology and physiology.
7. Communing with departed spirits.
8. Abuses and dangers attending Etheropathic experi-
ments.
1 . Etheropathic Sleep.—This is generally one of the very
first effects of Etheropathic Induction. The subject feels a
sensation similar to that experienced when going into ordi-
nary sleep ; and his nodding, and the relaxation of his mus-
cles, often imitate common sleep perfectly. Now, mark the
difference : a third person speaks but the subject does not
hear him. The operator speaks and the subject hears him
and answers, or attempts to answer and finds his tongue
paralyzed. A third person takes hold of the subject and
pinches him, burns him, pricks him, and tries everyway to
excite his attention, but the subject remains totally uncon-
scious of all his attempts. The operator gently touches
him, and he shrinks with the strongest signs of sensitive-
ness. The operator commands him to perceive when a
third person touches him, and now he shows Consciousness
in return to the slightest touch from the very person who
could not rouse him before by the most cruel experiments.
In order to explain this, we must recollect that the isola-
tion of the organs of the subject is overcome, so that the
currents of Etherium from the operator's brain interfere
with the currents of Etherium from the brain of the sub-
ject. The currents from the subject's brain are either
neutralized or conformed to the currents of the operator, so
that now no current of Etherium can enter the brain of the
subject through the external senses ; but currents are pass-
ing through the organs of the subject from the brain of the
operator with great vigor. The senses of the subject can
be affected by the operator, or by any object which the
operator permits to be in communication. Those currents
ABNORMAL SLEEP. 221
are cut off which normally pass to and from the subject's
brain and connect it with surrounding objects.
Sometimes the external senses, the voluntary muscles
and the organs of mind, seem to be all, or nearly all, induct-
ed ; so that the subject is almost as entirely under the con-
trol of the operator, as if the subject was but a part of the
operator himself. But much oftener it happens, that all the
efforts of the operator fail to induct the subject except in a
few organs. At first the current from the brain of the sub-
ject to his eyes may be interrupted, so that the subject can-
not open them without the consent of the operator ;
perhaps
also the lips become immovable from a similar cause ; but
the hearing is not yet much affected, and by an uncommon
effort he can move his limbs ; the mind is but little affected
and the subject knows what he is about and has the power,
and perhaps the disposition, to oppose the operator and en-
deavor to thwart his plans and wishes. The explanation
of this is, that only a few bodily organs are cut off from
their natural etherean connection with the brain. The other
organs are too securely isolated, or else too powerful to
be overcome.
When the external senses and the perceptive organs which
are dependent upon them are thoroughly inducted, the sub-
ject is asleep ; that is, he is in such a condition, that if the
operator asks him if he is asleep, he will say u yes." I
take it that the whole brain is not asleep at this time, for
the subject will sometimes complain of thirst, weariness, or
suffocation ; showing that the internal-corporeal senses are
active, and that those organs of the brain are awake which
preside over the wants of the body, though the perceptive
organs are undoubtedly asleep, except so far as their activity
depends upon the operator—they are certainly in that con-
dition, whatever it may be, which gives the subject a Con-
sciousness that he is asleep, for he will generally answer
222 ETHEROPATHY.
positively that he is asleep. This leads me to inquire con-
ORGAN OF SLEEP.
Is there an organ of mind located in the brain, the func-
tion of which is to give a disposition to sleep? If so, in
what part of the brain is it located ? and what is its nature,
its utility, and the design of the Creator in bestowing it ? To
what class of organs does it belong, Ipseal, Social, or Intel-
lectual ? If Ipseal, to what range of Ipseals ?
I have reflected much upon this subject, as I deem it one
of much interest in a phrenological point of view, and I
have at length come to the conclusion that there is no organ
of Sleep per se. There is a state of Consciousness which
we call drowsiness or sleepiness, and this is accompanied
with an inability to keep the voluntary muscles, especially
those of the eyes, in a state of contraction. Now it must
be. admitted, that this Consciousness of drowsiness, is pro-
duced by a particular Phreno-organ, and so also is the con-
traction of the muscles, which constitute wakefulness,
dependent upon an especial Phreno-organ. The tendency
to sleep is indicated by an inability to contract the voluntary
muscles, and to keep the senses active. Sleep is a nega-
tive power. A man asleep is a man doing nothing. Surety
an organ for doing nothing is unneccessary. I have shown,
in another place, that sleep is produced by the predomi-
nance of the involuntary ganglia. These are the only
organs of sleep, but they are not Phreno-organs ; they give
no tendency to do any thing voluntarily, but on the contrary,
they tend to prevent all voluntary action.
The consciousness of drowsiness, which we experience,
is produced by the organ of Sanativeness, in consequence of
a peculiar weariness of those parts, whose function it is to
keep the senses active, and the muscles connected with
them in a state of contraction.
ABNORMAL SLEEP. 223
The function of the organ of Sanativeness, is to produce
consciousness and action when any part is exhausted, in-
jured, diseased, wearied, or needs our care and attention.
If any part of the constitution is exhausted in a certain slight
degree, Sanativeness is affected accordingly, and produces a
consciousness of weariness ; if to a greater degree, a con-
sciousness o£ pain ; so that weariness would seem to be but
a slight degree of pain—it differs from pain only in degree.
The pain produced by the injury of one part of the body, is
different from that produced by another part, and the weari-
ness produced by the too prolonged activity of one organ, is
different from that produced by another. Now, it would
seem that drowsiness is the peculiar weariness of the senses
and their auxiliary muscles, and it affects the organ of Sana-
tiveness accordingly. It may be that the organ of Sana-
tiveness is constituted of a great number of departments, to
correspond with the different parts of the body, which are
liable to exhaustion and disease ; and if so, then there may
be one department which presides over the sanatary condi-
tion of the senses and their dependent muscles. Such a
department, if it does exist, produces the consciousness of
drowsiness, or the exhaustion of the muscles. In this sense,
Sanativeness may be called the organ of Sleep. But an
organ of Sleep, such as Buchanan, Sunderland and others
admit, does not exist beyond their own imaginations.
If there were such a propensity, it would, of course, be an
Ipseal of the corporeal range—it would be one of the very
lowest organs in location and function,—since the very
lowest class of organized beings possess it in perfection, and
sleep all, or nearly all, the time of their lives. Dr. Bu-
chanan claims to have discovered an organ of Sleep and
another of Somnolence ! His notions are in themselves
really unworthy of a serious refutation. I doubt whether
the annals of science can furnish an instance of the violation
of all the rules of common sense equal to that which this
224 ETHEROPATHY.
gentleman has perpetrated under the name of "Neurology."
His errors are so gross, and, to one acquainted with the
elements of phrenology, so palpable, as to lead us almost
to suspect that the doctor is amusing himself by trying ex-
periments upon the public credulity, and attempting to rival
Mr. Locke by producing another scientific fiction more
marvelous than even the celebrated moon hoax. But
there is something connected with the notions of Dr. Bu-
chanan, that entitle them to a degree of notice which their
intrinsic merit by no means deserve ; and that is, the cir-
cumstance that hundreds of respectable persons, including
some of the most distinguished men in our country, have
been so far misled by a superficial examination as to give
to them the sanction of their names and characters ; so that
the general impression throughout this country, at present,
is, that Dr. Buchanan has actually made some important
discoveries in phrenology and physiology, and that he really
proves phrenology by his practice of exciting the organs of
the brain. Whereas, the truth is that he has not added
any thing to our knowledge, nor made a single discovery.
His pretensions may justly be classed with those of Joe
Smith and Father Miller. I do not speak thus positively
on this subject without having first examined it. I have
repeated his experiments upon hundreds of susceptible sub-
jects, and proved the utter falsity of his boasted " wonder-
ful discoveries," by the very method which he himself pro-
poses to establish their truth, and that is, by experiment.
Dr. Buchanan locates his " organ of Sleep" between Com-
bativeness and Cautiousness, and his organ of "Somnolence"
near the organ of Tune. His location of the organ of
" Sleep" is a violation of a perfectly established principle of
phrenology—which is, that the powers that are the most
essentially animal and corporeal in their nature have their
organs in the lowest portions of the brain. How then can
sleep have an organ above Combativeness and Acquisitive-
ABNORMAL SLEEP. 225
ness, where Dr. B. has placed it ? If there is a tendency
more especially low and anti-intellectual in the catalogue of
human powers than any other, it is the tendency to sleep :
if, therefore, there is an organ which is the agent of this
tendency, it must be at the very base of the brain, taking
precedence of all others.
But I am told, perhaps, by some very innocent witness of
Dr. B.'s experiments, that he certainly does put his subjects
to sleep with no other ceremony than merely holding his
finger upon that part of the head where he has located the
organ of sleep. I answer that I have no doubt of it ; and
neither do I doubt that he could put them to sleep, just as
well, by putting his finger on the nose or any other part,
especially if the subject expected to be put to sleep and was
susceptible. I have often put them to sleep by simply tell-
ing them to go to sleep, and without touching them at all.
Would it not be an unpardonable deception then, if I were
to put my finger on a certain part of the head and pretend
that this was the means and the organ by which the sleep
was produced, when I could produce the same effect by
touching any other part, or even by not touching at all ? If
touching certain parts of a fresh subject sometimes aids and
facilitates the sleep, it is, doubtless, because it facilitates the
induction and stops the action of several organs, and not be-
cause it excites a particular one.
A person who has been once inducted, can be inducted
again with much more ease than before. There are two
reasons for this : one is, that the isolation is weakened and
rendered pervious ; the other is, that the conforming organs
are excited by the recollection that once before he has been
overcome, and this leads him to expect and believe that he
will be overcome again.
There is a very great difference in subjects, in regard to
the length of time that the influence will continue to affect
them. Some will for weeks after they have been inducted
226 ETHEROPATHY,
be highly susceptible to induction, so that the slightest effort
made by the operator, with their knowledge, is sufficient to
render them powerless. I know a young lady of Syracuse,
who is so susceptible, that if any one converses upon the
subject of mesmerism in her presence, she will become rigid
and unable to move ; the consequence is, that the family
are obliged to abstain from mentioning the subject in her
presence. In this case, I have no doubt that the power
that paralyzes her is within her own brain, though the con-
versation of others may call it into action. It is my opinion
that any organ of the brain may paralyze the whole system
under some circumstances : fear often does this, and so does
joy and sorrow. Subjects are often extremely fanciful, ca-
pricious and unmanageable, in consequence of the self-in-
ducting power of their own organs foiling the attempts of
the operator to influence them. Such subjects are apt to
acquire eccentricities and apparently unaccountable pecu-
liarities in relation to their susceptibility. The explanation
of their cases may be found in the idle and foolish notions
which they have imbibed. I know a lady in Cooperstown,
for instance, who becomes instantly paralyzed if any one
inducts or attempts to induct her for a moment, and nothing
will relieve her but touching a certain part of her head.
Her sister, whom she has much reason to love, fills her with
horror if she approaches her. The medical gentleman,
whose patient she is, was greatly puzzled with these things
until I explained to him the nature of Credenciveness, and
showed him by a variety of experiments that the brain
of the subject manufactured all the difficulty, on the princi-
ciple of insane Credenciveness, and that no other subject
would present a case perfectly parallel unless there was an
opportunity afforded for a communication or imitation of
symptoms. It is not unusual for a whole community to be
inducted by imitation and Credencive Induction, so as to be
subject to delusions, panics and diseases ; and the most ex-
ABNORMAL SLEEP. 227
traordinary physical and moral effects are produced through
the agency of the physical organs of Imitativeness and Cre-
denciveness. A full and sufficient explanation of the causes
of the Salem-Witchcraft delusion is furnished by applying
these principles.
2. MANIFESTATIONS OF UNCOMMON STRENGTH.
The inducted subject sometimes manifests a degree of
strength, which he cannot possibly manifest in his normal
state. The explanation is, that the currents of Etherium
from the brain of the operator unite their power with those
of the subject, and both brains are actually moving one set
of muscles through one set of nerves ; there is increased
intensity ^ analogous to that produced in the galvanic battery
by increasing the number of plates, so that those muscles
can manifest a corresponding strength. Insane persons
sometimes manifest a most wonderful amount of personal
strength in consequence of great excitement of the brain
;
but in their cases, the excitement is succeeeded by a re-
action, accompanied with uncommon prostration and weak-
ness. Not so the externally inducted subject, he often
makes the most powerful efforts, and being thoroughly re-
plenished and sustained by the operator, awakes without
any sense of fatigue or exhaustion. I have observed, on
such occasions, that the operator is exhausted though the
subject is not ; owing, as I suppose, to the drain which the
subject makes upon the operator. Sometimes the sub-
ject complains of exhaustion, but this is because he is not sup-
plied and sustained by the operator, but by his own organs,
and they begin to feel the effect of his exertions ; or the un-
easiness of the subject may be from sympathy with an ex-
hausted operator. The correctness of this reasoning is con-
firmed by the fact, that, when a subject is put to sleep and
aroused again after a reasonable time, without being made
to exert himself while asleep, he almost always awakes re-
228 ETHEROPATHY.
freshed and with a feeling similar to that experienced on
awakening from a common sleep.
3. CONFERRING EXTRAORDINARY POWER UPON WATER, ME-
DICINE, FOOD, &C.
The only way in which food, medicine, or anything else
has any effect upon organized beings is by evolving motions
of Etherium, which act upon the organs. The reason why
different articles of food or medicine have different effects
upon our organs is, because they evolve different etherean
motions—that this is so, can easily be shown by experiment.
Take a highly susceptible subject, one who is capable of
Sympathy and Clairvoyance, and take any article of medi-
cine, put it into a glass vessel carefully corked and hold it
in your hand, or let the subject hold it, and the medicine
will have precisely the same effect as if the subject swal-
lowed it in the ordinary way. It seems to me impossible
to explain this, except on the principle, that the medicine
evolves motions of Etherium in a peculiar manner, which
communicates with the organs of the subject and affects
them, although the glass intervened. This can be done
upon some subjects, even if the operator does not know
what medicine is in the phial. Again ; the operator can pro-
duce, by his will alone, the same effects which are produced
by any medicine ; this fact proves that the will and the
medicine have one power in common. What can it be but
the power of giving peculiar motions to the Etherium ?
Again ; the operator can do the same without either medicine
or will, but merely by assertion. I can produce a hundred
subjects in the valley of the Hudson River, including some of
the most respectable persons in this State, who will make
oath that ice burns their fingers when I assert that " it is hot"
—and they will do this when perfectlv awake, and ap-
parently in possession of all their faculties—being rational
on every other subject but this.
ABNORMAL SLEEP. 229
I can give the subject in this condition a glass of water
and assert that it is brandy, and it produces the same effects
upon his taste and feelings as if it really were brandy.
This will happen, even if I will that it shall have no effect
at all. These are facts which cannot be denied, nor even
doubted. The number and character of the subjects ren-
der this impossible. I can do this to one person in twenty
throughout the United States, and can teach any one else
to do it. The facts must therefore be disposed of in some
other way than by denying them. I have already explained
them by showing that an assertion excites one of the largest
organs of the brain, and with the aid of Induction this one
produces a peculiar kind of monomania, in which the same
motions are produced and imitated in the brain by the Cre-
dencive imagination, which are ordinarily produced by the
brandy or the fire.
Since all sensations are immediately produced by motions
of Etherium in the nerves and brain, any means which can
cause those motions can produce corresponding sensations.
An assertion produces motions in Credenciveness, and Cre-
denciveness modifies and communicates them to all the
other organs as far as is requisite to cause the result asserted.
In short, the whole brain becomes the slave of Credencive-
ness, and Credenciveness is the slave of an assertion. In
these Credencive experiments it should be understood that
the motions of Etherium do not emanate from the substance
—
medicine, water, &c,—but from the deranged organs of the
subject himself. He is in the same condition as many in-
sane persons who live for years in the belief that their own
limbs are glass, or that they themselves are birds, or plants,
or monarchs, or departed spirits.
4. DISCOVERING THE DISEASES OF PATIENTS, OR OF THEM-
SELVES, AND PRESCRIBING MODES OF CURE.
Subjects can often discover the diseases, injuries, or pains
230 ETHEROPATHY.
of persons with whom they are in communication on the
principle of Sympathy, which I have explained, or on the
principle of Clairvoyance, or on both combined. By Sym-
pathy, they know the feelings and motions which the patient
experiences at the time when they are in communication.
By Clairvoyance, they know the appearance of the injured
parts ; and from these data they sometimes are able to prescribe
medical treatment which is well calculated to effect a cure.
Medicine, as I have already had occasion to explain, pro-
duces its effects by modifying the motions of Etherium in
the organs of the patient. There are doubtless hundreds
of substances which possess the most powerful medical vir-
tues, though they are not known to scientific men ; for we
have had no means of learning the qualities of medicines
except by accidental observations and by experiments.
It is not unlikely that the clairvoyant subject perceives
operations in diseased organs and virtues in medical sub-
stances, which to one in the normal state are imperceptible.
Perhaps the reasoning powers of the subject, as well as his
other powers, sometimes become morbidly active, and enable
him to judge and predict, with a degree of correctness which
seems almost miraculous, the result of disease or the effect
of medicine. I have thus admitted fully on this point the
just claims of operators as far as regards the philosophical
principles involved, and I refer to Sympathy and Clairvoy-
ance for their explanation ; but I must now confess, that
although true in principle, Clairvoyance is uncertain in
practice.
It is a fact that experiments in Clairvoyance are, in a
majority of attempts, entire failures. It is a fact that experi-
ments in Sympathy are successful much oftener than those
in Clairvoyance. Yet it is also a fact that the clairvoyant
subject is sometimes so perfectly correct, and under such
circumstances, as to entirely exclude the possibility of de-
ception, collusion, or mistake. This has been the great
ABNORMAL SLEEP. 231
t
stumbling block of skeptics. Having perhaps heard or read
of some astonishing feat of Clairvoyance, they protest that
it is impossible, and accuse the narrator of falsehood or
weakness ; and, when challenged to witness the experiment
for themselves, they accept promptly the invitation. Prepa-
rations are made, expectations are raised, a triumph is an-
ticipated, when, alas ! the experiment fails. The operator
cannot tell why ; accuses the weather, the presence of
skeptics, the noise in the room, his own want of health or
concentration ; offers to try it again, and then proceeds to
give the most wonderful accounts of feats which he has
performed on other occasions ; so he declares upon his
honor. During all this time the skeptics, too polite per-
haps to express their sentiments verbally, answer with
"Oh!" "Indeed!" "and shrugs and looks of suppressed
contempt ; and finally, take their leave fully confirmed in
their skepticism, and afterwards refuse to listen candidly or
look fairly upon the subject.
Do you ask me why there need be so many failures ?
why, if Clairvoyance succeeded yesterday, it should fail to-
day ? I answer frankly, that I do not know ; I know the
fact only, and I say that a thousand failures do not disprove
one instance of success.
The wonder to me is, not that there should be failures,
but that there should ever be success. When I reflect that
every successful experiment in Clairvoyance is a triumph
over the laws of the constitution, and that creative wisdom
has been displayed in preventing the success of such opera-
tions, I am by no means astonished that success is an excep-
tion and failure the general result. I am rather astonished
that a single phenomenon of this character can be produced
at all ; and were it not that I am forced to yield to irresisti-
ble evidence, I should be disposed to deny the truth of
Clairvoyance altogether ; and, indeed, of all other Ethero-
pathic phenomena.
232 ETHEROPATHY.
All the different kinds of experiments are more success-
ful at one time than another, though performed upon the
same subject, without our being able to assign any sufficient
reason. But when we reflect that the electric and magnetic
states of the atmosphere are continually varying, without
our being able to assign the reasons, we ought not to be sur-
prised that similar variations are found in Etheropathy.
I advise no one to rely upon clairvoyant subjects in cases
of disease, but I would respectfully recommend to physi-
cians to weigh their testimony candidly and give it all the
attention which it really deserves. Let it be borne in mind,
that though sometimes astonishingly correct, they are oftener
insanely romantic.
5. READING THE CHARACTERS OF THOSE WITH WHOM THE
SUBJECT IS IN COMMUNICATION,
This is but a species of clairvoyant sympathy, for if the
motions of the operator or any one else in communication
are made to affect the subject, and he is conscious of the
affection, he can, of course, judge of its character. A sub-
ject who is ignorant of phrenology will sometimes examine
the head of a person and tell the character with tolerable
accuracy. I take it that this is done by the subject being
slightly affected by each organ, and that he judges of the
relative influence of the mental powers by their relative ef-
fect upon himself at the time of his sympathetic communi-
cation.
Subjects can sometimes read the character and disease of
a person by merely feeling of a handkerchief, or a lock of
hair which belonged to that person. Such subjects are rare,
but they are sometimes found. This seems incredible, and,
when admitted to be true, is exceedingly wonderful ; but
our wonder is doubtless principally caused by the novelty,
rather, than the impossibility of the thing, for is it not
equally incomprehensible that a dog can tell by putting his
READING CHARACTER. 233
nose within a few inches of a stone upon which twenty per-
sons and animals of different kinds have trodden, and if his
master, or a fox, or any favorite game has for an instant
been standing upon the stone, the dog perceives it as he
runs rapidly along over the stone. How can we explain
this but by saying that there is an emanation of some kind
from the animal which impregnated the stone.
I once tried an experiment with a kitten about three
months old, which I was certain had never seen a mouse.
I brought a covered tub into the room, in which was a mouse,
intending to let it out and see whether the kitten would
catch it ; but before I opened the the tub the kitten gave
the strongest evidences that she already knew its inhabitant.
She evidently perceived it without sight or hearing, through
the covered tub. Was this not reading character in a man-
ner quite as wonderful as that of the Clairvoyant subject ?
If you say that she smelt it, I might ask how by that
means she knew that it was her natural prey ?
Take a carrier pigeon a thousand miles blindfolded, by
a circuitous route, and it will return by the most direct line
that can be drawn. Did the pigeon smell home ? How
then, if not by smell, does the bird know the way home?
I have seen a company of about twelve persons, nearly all
strangers to each other and to the subject, take their hand-
kerchiefs and mix them together in a box and then present it to
the blindfolded subject, who took the handkerchiefs all out,
and as each owner presented his hand, the subject selected
and returned his property. I have seen the same subject
tell correctly by feeling the hands of persons whether they
were of the same family. I have seen a ring handed to a
subject, and the owner of the ring, who lived at a distance,
described—the sex, health, residence and state of mind,
and many other circumstances, with great accuracy, in
most particulars ; though I never saw an instance in which
there were no mistakes made in the description, if many
11
234 ETHEROPATHY.
questions were asked. I can understand as well how a
Clairvoyant subject can tell the character of the person by
the emanations from the handkerchief, as I can how the dog
can tell the character by a footstep, or a pigeon his home
without even one sign or circumstance to afford a hint in
any way that we know of.
There are several ways in which the subject may get his
information ; one is by sympathy with the person or persons
present, who have in their own minds a knowledge of the
person inquired about. Another way is by emanations
from the ring or handkerchief. The ring being inducted by
the Etherium of the owner, partially retains and communi-
cates the motions which it has received, just as a magnet
does, or a scented handkerchief. Another way is by Clair-
voyance : the ring, if it has continued to emanate motions of
Etherium all the way from the place where the owner re-
sides to the residence of the subject, has made a path which
may aid the Clairvoyant subject in finding him, and estab-
lishing a communication with him so as to perceive his con-
dition : just as we look around for any desired object, and
when we at length discern it, we have established a com-
munication by means of light with the object. It is in re-
ality no more wonderful that the subject in his peculiar in-
ducted condition, should perceive a hundred miles by Ethe-
rium through opaque intervening bodies, than it is that we
can perceive by means of light in the way we can through
water, air, glass, &c. The difference is in the novelty of the
method rather than the magnitude of the performance.
The difficulty of conceiving such minute operations as
those of the motions of Etherium in a ring, which can be
communicated to a subject, and followed a hundred miles
to connect with the owner—this difficulty is not greater
than that of conceiving how eight millions of conscious
beings can live and move in a space smaller than a mustard
seed, or how the force of gravity can be propagated fifty
DISCOVERIES. 235
millions of times faster than light. The minute is doubtless
as infinite as the grand ; and we commit as great an error
by limiting nature to our capacities, as a microscopic insect
would, who should suppose that the north side of the grain
of earth on which he lives is the paradise and most import-
ant part of the universe.
It is with us as it is with the insect,—what seem to be
the limits of nature are in truth but the limits of our own
powers. The chain of causes and effects is infinite in length,
but with our limited powers we can only perceive a few
intermediate links. Both extremities of this chain are mys-
teriously continued far beyond the limits of human concep-
tion. Human knowledge in its greatest extent is necessa-
rily cut short at both extremities. In all human reasoning
we are forced, through ignorance and weakness, to begin by
assuming first links or principles, and conclude by again con-
fessing that we are at our wit's end. What we call firstprinci-
ples are merely the first links that we can perceive ; and
what we call a conclusion, is merely the last link which we
can trace. All human knowledge begins and ends in igno-
rance.
DISCOVERIES IN PHRENOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY BY MEANS
OF ETHEROPATHY.
In the year 1837, I became acquainted with the late
lamented Mr. Wing Russell of Syracuse, N. Y., who then
resided in Buffalo ; I was at that time an unbeliever in
mesmerism, and supposed that all who were engaged in ex-
periments of this kind were unprincipled and dishonest men
;
I therefore refused to witness any of their performances.
But when I saw Mr. Russell, with his beautiful develop-
ment of the moral and intellectual organs, I was forced to
confess that phrenology was at fault if such a man was
capable of so gross a deception. I requested an introduc-
tion, and told him frankly my opinion. He replied, with
benevolent mildness, that he did not blame me for my
2u£> ETHEROPATHY.
skepticism, as in my case he had no doubt
my want of an opportunity to learn the truth, and that he
would willingly show me some experiments. He accord-
ingly operated in my presence, upon a young woman named
Catherine, in such a manner as to produce entire conviction
in my mind.
I was at that time deeply engaged in the study of
phrenology, and was preparing for the press a work upon
the subject, containing many novel views. Catherine was
Clairvoyant, and I determined to try an experiment which
I thought would be a fair test of the truth of mesmerism,
and might posssibly lead to some important discovery.
There were many queries in my mind relative to the func-
tions of certain parts of the brain, and it occurred to me that
if she really could perceive, as she pretended that she could,
perhaps I might learn something from her.
One day when she was inducted so as to be in the Clair-
voyant condition, I asked her to tell me the appearance of
the brain. She was put into communication with Mr.
John T. Hogoboom, who now resides in Nassau, Rensselaer
county, N. Y., and she described his brain with most
anatomical precision. The function of the corpus callosum
being unknown to physiologists, I thought I would ask her
if she could perceive what office it performed. After
minutely describing the anterior, middle and posterior com-
missures of the brain, and telling me that they were to con-
nect the two hemispheres together so as to make them act
as one, she said that the office of the collosum was different
—
that it did not connect the two halves, but if one half
acquired more fluid than another, that the use of the cal-
losum was to conduct the fluid across from one side of the
brain to the other, in order to produce equilibrium. The
moment she mentioned the fluid I interrupted her and
asked her what fluid she meant, she answered " this" hold-
ing out her fingers, and moving them as if she perceived
something emanating from them " this is it," don't you see
DISCOVERIES. £37
it ? I then asked her concerning the location and the uses
of several new Phreno-organs, which I supposed that I had
discovered, and to my surprise she answered me without
the least hesitation, and confirmed all my previous opinions,
not even excepting those opinions which I had never men-
tioned to any one, and which she could only have known
by Clairvoyance. I was at the time in much doubt whether
she really perceived the brain, and could see it operate and
know the functions and forms of its different parts, or
whether she acquired her ideas from sympathy with my
own mind.
I wrote down, soon after, a memorandum of the whole
affair in a book, which I lost a few weeks since in my
travels ; and which, I will thank the finder to return to me
at my residence in Lansingburgh. As far as I know, this
was the first attempt to learn the functions of the brain by
means of mesmerism or Etheropathy ; and notwithstanding
all the boasting of the pathetisers and neurologisers, I still
think that this method is the only one which will be found
of any real use. I mean, that Clairvoyance is the only in-
strumentality by which we may hope to make discoveries
through the agency of inducted subjects. But I must con-
fess, that even this method is exceedingly discouraging,
since I find that in those cases where I have had an op-
portunity to know whether the subject was right or wrong
in his pretensions to Clairvoyance, the actual result has
been, that he was wrong more than half of the time. They
are correct in examining the diseases of patients much
oftener than in any other kind of Clairvoyance ; but in this
they are perhaps aided in a considerable degree by sym-
pathy. It may be, that there is something in the nature of
the human body which is congenial to the Etherium of
another human organization, and this may render it easier
to establish a communication with them, so as to produce
Sympathetic Clairvoyance than any other kind. On this
238 ETHEROPATHY.
subject there is much need of carefully observed and con-
nected facts ; but it is unfortunate that most of those who
are engaged in making experiments, are such visionary and
credulous persons, that they lead us to error oftener than
to truth. I shall never complain that people are skeptical
on this subject so long as they do not refuse obstinately to
examine it. Let us continue to observe, to examine, to
theorise, to criticise, and skepticize,and turn, and overturn,
until the truth, whose right it is, shall reign.
In January, 1841, 1 gave several lectures in Albany, which,
by permission of the legislature, were delivered in the
capitol. At the close of one of these lectures, the Rev. Mr.
J. M, Garfield came to me and stated that he had discovered
that he could excite any organ of a mesmerized subject by
merely putting his finger upon it ; and when I expressed a
doubt of it, he invited me to visit him and witness the ex-
periment for myself ; I thanked him, and promised to do so
at the first convenient opportunity. Before I found time to
call, the same experiments were announced, as performed by
the Rev. La Roy Sunderland, and also by Dr. J. R. Bu-
chanan. Several others claimed priority in this great dis-
covery, both in Europe and in this country. There is no
evidence that Sunderland nor Buchannan made their ex-
periments before the spring of 1841 ; whereas, Mr Garfield
made his known to me in the previous winter, so that if
there is any honor in the priority, it belongs of right to
Mr. Garfield : in justice to this gentleman, I will however
state, that he claims no credit and seeks no notoriety in con-
nection with the subject.
So much did the announcement of these discoveries ex-
cite interest, that a journal was started in this country,
called u the Magnet ;"—and another in England, called
" the Phreno-MagneV—and both are, I believe, still con-
tinued—the principal object of which was to advocate and
disseminate the " New Wonders."
DISCOVERIES. 239
Public attention was, however, directed to this sub-
ject more especially by the operations of Dr. Buchanan,
as reported by himself, and those who acted as committees
appointed by audiences to examine and scrutinize his experi-
ments in New-York, Albany 'and Boston. Dr. Buchanan
came with letters of introduction from gentlemen of high
standing to some of the first citizens of this region,
and as he professed to have made very great discoveries
in science, he was received cordially, and his subject
taken in hand by gentlemen of such character as to com-
mand the confidence of the public. These gentlemen pub-
lished long and detailed reports which sanctioned all or
nearly all that Dr. Buchanan had advanced. The commit-
tees professed to merely report the facts which they knew
and the experiments which they had witnessed, without
expressing any opinion concerning them ; but the tenor and
complimentary style of the reports, was such as to amount
to an official endorsement of the whole concern. The edi-
tor of the Democratic Review, the editor of the New-York
Evening Po t, Dr. Forry, Rev. Mr. Pierpont, and others
of the same high character, publicly expressed their con-
viction of the general truth of Dr. Buchanan's doctrines ;
and hundreds of others were and indeed are still of the
opinion, that being founded upon experiment they could not
be erroneous. What greatly added to their confidence, was
the fact that they could repeat the experiments themselves,
and with the most perfect success. How, then, could they
be mistaken, when they were themselves the operators and
the subjects were their most devoted friends ? Yet there
is, in my mind, no doubt that the whole doctrine is a most
egregious tissue of moonshine.
The subjects being under a peculiar delusion, deceived
themselves and their operators, and both combined to
deceive the public, though neither intended to do so. If
an insane man were to assert that he possessed the power
240 ETHEROPATHY.
to work miracles and pretended to actually perform them,
I should not accuse him of wilful deception, though I would
say that he deceived himself; and if a number of intelligent
and respectable sane men, should affirm that they were sat-
isfied of the reality of his performances and should so report
to the public, I should be unwilling to accuse them of frau-
dulent intentions, but I would certainly consider their report
as discreditable to their intellectual characters and as cal-
culated to do mischief by deceiving and misleading the cre-
dulous portion of the community.
Tn the case of Dr. Buchanan and the reports of his com-
mittees, the mischief is the greater from the fact that they
tend to destroy confidence in the science of phrenology.
He professed to produce an entire revolution in this science
—to add thousands of new organs—to change in a moment
the location of organs which had already been established
by years of patient observation. Some idea can be formed
of the extent to which this mischievous delusion proceeded,
from the fact that Mr. Fowler in a new edition of his work
on phrenology introduced a long catalogue of new organs,
which he pretends to have discovered by this means ; and)
furthermore, he professes to have verified them by observa-
tion and examination of crania !
Mr. Fowler has made such an immense number of ex-
aminations of heads and is supposed by the multitude to
understand the subject of phrenology so well, that it was
thought he must certainly be capable of judging whether
Dr. Buchanan or Sunderland was right or not ; and, there-
fore, when he declares that he has tested the experiments
fully, made important discoveries by means of them, and
then proved and verified the discoveries by observing the
developments of the head, he gives his highest testimony
in favor of their truth, pledges his own professional charac-
ter for skill and accuracy, and must stand or fall by the re-
sult. But in the mean time, the public who have relied
DISCOVERIES. 241
upon him are misled by his unfounded assertions ; and the
new organs which he has endorsed have vanished to the land
of dreams from whence they originated. I can sincerely pity
Mr. Fowler, for having, by his imprudent zeal and unintel-
lectual ambition, placed himself in such an awkward pre-
dicament ; but still it is my duty to apply the critical knife
to the ugly excrescences which under the name of " newly
discovered organs" he has attempted to engraft upon the
beautiful tree of phrenology.
Let it not be supposed that I am attempting to render the
gentleman's scientific pretensions more ridiculous than is
necessary to the development of truth—I hope that I am
incapable of such injustice—I will, therefore, quote his own
language, and let my reader judge whether it is possible by
any comment of mine to make such ideas appear more con-
temptible. He saj-s,
—
" No sooner had an application of Animal Magnetism been made
to Phrenology, than I eagerly embraced it, not only to test the
truth of magnetism in regard to the organs that were fully estab-
lished, but also, when satisfied on this point, to see which of the
doubtful organs stood being tested by magnetism, as well as whether
new "ones could be discovered. Accordingly, the Rev. La Roy
Sunderland, Dr. Sherwood and myself, instituted a series of Phre-
no-Magnetic experiments, a summary of that portion of the results
which relates to Phrenology is given.
" Nothing has ever interested me more than these experiments,
and 1 felt that I could not put another edition of this work to press,
though it was stereotyped, without giving at least a summary of
them. I will just add, that I have examined hundreds, probably
thousands, of heads, since these discoveries were made, with the
view of seeing whether examinations made by means of them, coin-
cided with the characters, and 1 find they do without the least per-
ceptible variation. These results, then, are :
" 1. Each of the internal organs, such as the heart, lungs, stomach,
liver, &c. &c, has an organ in the head, which is large, small,
healthy, or disordered, &c, according to the condition of the organ
11*
242 ETHEROPATHY.
in the body. These organs are situated behind the ears. Their
precise position, however, I have not so fully ascertained as is de-
sirable.
" 2. All, or nearly all, the old organs, are found to be a group, or
family of organs ; each analogous to the old one, but differing from
each other in their shades of function. Thus, Combativeness is
found to be divided into Physical Courage, Dissatisfaction and Re-
sistance, or a contrary spirit ; Philoprogenitiveness, into Parental-
Love, Filial-Love, and Love of Pets ; and so of most of the other
organs.
" 3. The location and function of all the old, or established organs
are fully confirmed, not a single variation of importance in either
having been observed. This will certainly prove highly gratifying
to every lover of Phrenology, and does immortal credit to the mi-
nuteness and extent of the observations of its founders, Gall and
Spurzheim.
"4. These experiments have revealed the cause and instruments,
as well as the '
modus operandi' of Physiognomy, and show how
it is that the activity of each organ imparts its peculiar expression
to the face. Men have long known that all the passions, such as
anger, love, cunning, pride, decision, kindness, piety, fear, reflec-
tion, &c, were expressed in the countenance ; but no one has ever
discovered the rationale of this, or shown how it was done. As all
effects have their legitimate causes, and also their means, through
the instrumentality of which they are effected, these expressions
must have both their causes and instruments ofexpression,, These, we
think, we have discovered. It appears, that every organ of the
body and brain, has a certain magnetic connection with the face, or
a place there for its indication. For the want of a better name, we
will call these places and connections, the poles of the organs.
Hence, when the organ is affected, that portion of the face is drawn
so as to cause the face to express the feeling or sentiment of the
organ excited. This connection existing between the organ and
the pole, (for that is the term given to the termination of this con-
nection, while the term conductor is applied to the channel by which
this influence passes from the organ to the face,) is the same as
that between the head and the hand, or any other part of the body,
DISCOVERIES. 243
by which the limbs, muscles, &c, involuntarily obey the command,
and fulfil the desires of the mind and will. Thus, the poles of
Self-Esteem are between the mouth and nose, about an inch and a
quarter apart, and about an inch below the outer portion of the
nose. Hence its action produces that curl of the upper lip which
expresses scorn, contempt, pride and self-sufficiency.
' ;
The poles of Firmness are about half an inch apart, near the
edge of the upper lip, and in the hollow between the nose and
mouth. Hence, its action produces that compression of the upper
lip which is said to indicate decision of character ; and hence, en-
couraging another to be firm,, is expressed by the saying, < Now
keep a stiff upper lip.'' The expression, ' That man carries a stiff
upper lip,' is also in harmony with this supposed discovery.
" The poles of the reasoning organs are just below the edge of
the lower lip, and those of the moral organs, still farther down,
between the lower lip and chin.
" This harmonizes perfectly with the physiognomy of all great
reasoners ; for, their under lip will be found to project and turn
under, as it were, towards the teeth. Reasoners generally handle
their under lip much, and whenever we think deeply, we naturally
bite, or finger, or draw, or stick out the under lip. The coinci-
dence between this discovery, or rather, between the position of
these poles and that part of the face by which the functions of their
organs are manifested, is most happy and striking ; and it will
soon lead to a correct system of Physiognomy.
" This brings us to the second point of interest connected with
this portion of our subject, namely, that the poles of the organs are
grouped in the face, much as the organs themselves are grouped in
the head ; that is, the poles of those organs that are most likely to
aid and accompany one another, are located near each other. Thus,
it is a leading principle in Phrenology, that the moral and reason-
ing faculties should co-operate in directing and governing the ac-
tions of all the other faculties, and in controlling nearly all the
doings of life ; and, in accordance with this principle, the poles of
these organs are near neighbors, just as are the organs themselves.
" This same principle of polarity, applies equally to all the organs
of the body. Thus, the poles of the heart are in the chin, by ex-
citing which the heart labors, and is raised to so violent a state of
action as lo prevent the circulation of the blood, and to all appear-
244 ETHEROPATHY.
ance, would cause death in a few seconds. The poles of the
lungs are in each cheek—just where the hectic flush appears in
consumption. Hence, the inflammation of the lungs excites these
poles, producing that rosy redness of the cheeks which indicates
and accompanies lung-fever. In the name of philosophy, I ask, if
this coincidence, does not indicate truth, and is not in harmony with
nature ? And, beyond a doubt, this discovery, if founded in truth,
will soon be employed in the cure of consumptive complaints, lung
fevers, asthma, &c. The poles of the stomach are found to join
Alimentiveness on its inner side. This shows how it is, that the
excitement of the stomach by hunger, disease, &c, excites Alimen-
tiveness, and through it Combativeness, Destructiveness, &c. &c.
In other words, it shows why hunger produces a desire to eat,
rather than to worship, or be kind
—
why the morbid and inflamed
condition of the stomach, brought on by over-eating, (a disease
called dyspepsy, liver-complaint, &c.,) produces a craving, insa-
tiable appetite ; the inflammation of the stomach being felt at the
poles adjoining Alimentiveness, and thereby exciting the organ
and creating a desire for food ; and also why and how hunger pro-
duces irritability, ill-temper, &c, rather than kindness, or penitence,
&c. : these poles of the stomach being close by Combativeness and
Destructiveness, which partake of the excitement of the stomach
through these poles. All the other organs of the body are found
to have their poles in the face, and in all probability, when dor-
mant can be excited and cooled off when inflamed, merely by
magnetising their poles, or by putting them to sleep."
In my " New System of Phrenology, "-published in 1839,
I introduced three new organs, viz. : Pneumaliveness^ Sana-
tiveness and Flavor or Chemicality. These discoveries were
at that time neglected, or unmercifully and contemptuously
scouted, by Combe, Fowler, Caldwell, Buchanan and nearly
all the leading phrenologists ; but it seems that when they
found that the organs could be made to " speak for them-
selves" by being excited by " touching," they spoke in fa-
vor of those very organs which I had previously announced.
Buchanan and Sunderland found an organ of extreme "phy-
sical sensibility" exactly where I locate the organ of Sana-
DISCOVERIES. 245
tiveness, which feels pain ! Fowler, Buchanan and Sun-
derland found the " pole of the lungs" precisely where I had
located the organ of Pneumativeness—the propensity to
breathe—which produces suffocation ! They also found the
organs of taste and smell near where I located the organ of
Flavor or Chemicality, which in my work I had defined to
be " the perception of those chemical qualities of bodies
which affect the senses of taste and smell !" The reader
may perhaps suppose that these great discoverers, when
they found that they had previously done me injustice, were
prompt in acknowledgements and loud in their proclama-
tions of my priority and correctness : my dear reader, let
me assure you that on the contrary they have forgotten, or
never knew, that such a work as that of mine was ever pub-
lished ; and in this convenient state of forgetfulness they
have come out and claimed the discovery of these same or-
gans, which several years before I had announced in my
work, and which had been made a matter of discussion in
Albany, New-York, London and Paris—which Caldwell
(Buchanan's preceptor) had criticised in Fowler's Journal,
at Fowler's request.
But it will be asked how it came to pass that these gen-
tlemen by their experiments confirmed my observations, if
all their experiments are based on moonshine. How hap-
pened my observations to harmonize with their experi-
ments ? I answer by referring you to the explanations
which I have already made of the principles of Sympathy,
Will, Clairvoyance and Credencive induction. The opera-
tors, though unwilling to acknowledge it, were satisfied that
I was right in regard to the organs which I had announced
in my work. And, therefore, when they tried to excite
them upon a very susceptible subject, (one who was pro-
bably Clairvoyant,) they succeeded of course, and then in-
stead of acknowledging their tardiness to do me justice,
they claimed to have made the discovery themselves.
246 ETHEROPATHY.
But in reality the experiments do not confirm these or-
gans ; their claim is based upon observation of external de-
velopment and Phrenological harmony. The experiments
would have confirmed any other organ, or any doctrine
however absurd or visionary, as the records of their pre-
tended discoveries abundantly prove.
In regard to the poles of the stomach, and the magnetic
connection of Alimentiveness with the stomach, &c, of
which Fowler is so proud, I beg leave to refer you to my
work on Phrenology, p. 162, in which in 1839 I announced
this same doctrine in my explanation of the internal senses.
The following is the language I then used :
—
" These are the nerves that convey impressions from the
internal bodily organs, to their appropriate propensities in
the brain. Thus Pneumativeness, Alimentiveness and
Sanativeness, of the Ipseals ; and Amativeness and Paren-
tiveness, of the Socials, are each capable of being excited
to the highest degree, when the bodily organs to which they
are severally related, are in want of their peculiar enjoy-
ments. The secretion of milk in the breast, irritates certain
nerves which convey the impressions to Parentiveness and
rouse it to action. The secretion of the gastric juice, irri-
tates certain nerves of the stomach which convey impres-
sions to Alimentiveness ; in the same manner every organ
when irritated in a peculiar manner, communicates an im-
pression to the brain by means of some nerve, and rouses
the appropriate propensity, to relieve disagreeable sensa-
tions, or to continue agreeable ones. The nerves of the
internal senses are so concealed from observation, that the
most skillful anatomist cannot trace them with certainty
;
this accounts for the fact, that so very few, besides profes-
sional men, are acquainted even with the existence of such
senses."
If Mr. Fowler had merely stated that he had repeated the
experiments of Sunderland and Buchanan, and had obtained
DISCOVERIES. 247
the same results, he would have deserved no more censure
than the other endorsers of these monstrous absurdities ; but
when he declares that he has by the examination of crania
confirmed them, and thus established their truth, he takes
upon himself a responsibility from which I fear that nothing
but charity can relieve him.
I regret the necessity of these remarks, but I owe a duty
to the public which I am determined to discharge, and which
will not permit me to pass in silence and indifference the
false lights which are calculated to lead them so far astray.
SECTION XIII.
NEUROLOGY.
The notions of Dr. Buchanan have received the sanction
of Dr. Charles Caldwell of Kentucky, one of the most dis-
tinguished phrenologists in the world, and one who ought to
have been the first to perceive and expose their fallacy.
He lends the influence of his venerable name to give popu-
larity to this new " Neurology"—a granite pillar to sustain
a bubble. This is to me more astonishing than any of the
new discoveries. The following extracts from a letter of
Dr. Caldwell to the Editor of the Edinburgh Phrenological
Journal defines his position :
" Louisville, April 5, 1842.
" My Dear Sir : —The paper from the pen of Dr. Buchan-
an, which this letter accompanies, is transmitted to you in
the belief that it will so far experience from you a favor-
able reception, as to be admitted to a place in the Phreno-
logical Journal which you so ably conduct.
" If I mistake not its character, the paper contains in itself
an amount of curious, interesting and important matter,
abundantly sufficient to serve as its ready and welcome
passport into any phrenological depository of the day.
" In behalf of its solidity and merit, however, permit me to
observe, that I have myself witnessed experimental verifi-
cations of no inconsiderable number of the striking positions
and allegations which it contains. I have also performed
in person a sufficient number of them to serve me as an
earnest of the truth of many others.
NEUROLOGY. 249
" This is true, more especially, as regards the Mesmeric
excitement of the separate organs of the brain, and the call-
ing forth, in an augmented degree, of their natural language
and action.
" I apply to the excitement the term " Mesmeric," be-
cause the mode of its production is analagous to, and its
ruling principle no doubt identical with those of the pro-
duction of common Mesmeric phenomena. The following
experiments I have repeatedly performed, since my last re-
turn from Europe, without encountering a single failure.
" Having thrown my subject into a complete Mesmeric
condition, I have so excited the organs of Combativeness
and Destructiveness, even in ladies of delicacy and refine-
ment, whose natural feelings toward myself were friendly
and kind, as to induce them to give me blows, as severe as
they could inflict. I have then excited their Benevolence,
willing into their presence some object of distress, and
drawn from them an abundant effusion of tears—their
Veneration, and they have become immediately devout,
reverential and adoring—their Hope, and their thoughts
have become buoyant, elastic and brilliant, and all their
anticipations a foretaste of felicity to be afterwards enjoyed
by them—their Cautiousness, and they have sunk into
victims of apprehension and gloom—their Self-Esteem, and
so swollen was their pride, that they would hardly have
submitted to the companionship of an Empress—their
Mirthfulness, and their thoughts were cheering, sprightly
and playful, and all their fancies bright and mirth-born
—
their Number, and their instinct of Calculation would be-
come insatiable. A lady, in that condition, counted several
generations of canary birds which she had reared, all the
buttons on my coat and waistcoat, and on being willed into
my drawing room, all the chairs, tables and pictures con-
tained in the apartment. I next excited her Order, whose
development was large, and in that state, willing her into
my study, she gave me an earnest rebuke on account of the
disorder and confusion which prevailed in it, and was quite
exceptionable to her.
u Thus have I, on several occasions, run through a majority
of the larger and more powerful cerebral organs, rousing
them to strong action and expression, and in this way
settled, in my own opinion much more definitely and in-
250 NEUROLOGY.
dubitably, their positive locality, than can be effected by
any other mode of proceeding with which I am acquainted.
" Among the experiments of Dr. Buchanan, which I wit-
nessed, a very interesting and important one consisted in his
augmentation or diminution at pleasure of muscular strength
in any given part of the body. In the case of a youth, con-
valescent from severe disease, the Doctor, in the presence
of several persons, I being one of them, first augmented and
then diminished the strength of the arms, in a degree that
was obvious and even striking to the spectators. I have
also been a witness, when he has, by a similar process,
changed very materially the condition of the digestive
organs."
It seems that Dr. Elliotson of London has admitted the
truth of Dr. Buchanan's head-touching doctrines : and so, in-
deed, have many other distinguished Phrenologists and Phy-
sicians of Great Britain. The reader must therefore ac-
knowledge that however absurd and ridiculous may be the
doctrines which have been advanced by Dr. Buchanan and
others of the same faith, the high character of the persons
who have endorsed them give them a claim to a serious
and formal notice and refutation.
However much they may deserve ridicule, and however
naturally they may excite our contempt, this alone will
never dislodge them from the public mind as long as they are
defended by such renowned and respectable champions.
The great majority, even of educated persons, do not take
the trouble to examine such matters for themselves. They
presume that those whose peculiar vocation it is, will exam-
ine and report correctly upon any question which especially
concerns their profession ; and if some commit important er-
rors it is, expected that others will oppose them, not with
ridicule and sarcasm merely, but also with experiment, fact
and argument.*
* In England, the credit of having discovered the head-touching
princ iples, is supposed to belong not to Dr. Buchanan nor to Mr.
Sunderland, but to Mr. Spencer T. Hall, an English gentleman.
NEUROLOOY. 251
The discoveries of Dr. Buchanan and all his pretensions
depend upon the proposition, that by touching a definite spot
on the head we can learn the function of that portion of the
brain which is immediately beneath the spot touched.
This is his " mode of operation" as it has been " display-
ed publicly" both by himself and his disciples. By this
simple process he claims to have made discoveries of such
magnitude and importance as to overshadow all the discov-
eries of all other men since the flood. But I shall be suspect-
ed of misrepresenting him ; let me therefore give his own
language extracted from " Sketches of Buchanan's discov-
eries in Neurology," published by himself. In the intro-
duction it is said that—" The following sketches will, it is
hoped, give a just conception of its character and import-
ance."
He then proceeds to give an account which of itself is
sufficient to show that he is better fitted by nature for a
poet than a philosopher, and calculated to excel in works
of fiction, rather than of fact and experiment. Nothing can
exceed the extravagant and bombastic style in which he an-
nounces his discoveries. It reminds us of an oriental pro-
clamation, in which notice is given to the whole world that
the Emperor is eating his dinner, and that when he has fin-
ished, all the other great ones of the earth may eat theirs.
He very coolly takes his place at the head of the immortal
band of sages and philosophers that the world has produced,
and proclaims himself far in advance of them all. At a sin-
gle leap he reaches the very summit of the temple of fame,
claims a whole box to himself, and with enviable self-com-
placency remarks that being "placed in so authoritative posi-
tion awakens many peculiar emotions."
It may seem cruel, but I am really under the disagreeable
necessity of informing the gentleman that he has " got into
the wrong box." I expect that he will object and refer me
to his committees' reports—to Dr. Caldwell, Dr. Elliotson,
252 NEUROLOGY.
Dr. Dodds, Dr. Forry, Rev. Mr. Pierpont, Mr. Bryant, Mr.
O'Sullivan and a host of other persons of equal rank, who
have endorsed his ticket, and consented to allow him to take
some " shorter road to the arcana of cerebral physiology."
But I would most respectfully inform all those gentlemen
that no man can be permitted to occupy such " an authori-
tative position," who avoids, as Dr. Buchanan says he does
(to use his own words) " the labor of theorizing observation,
induction and philosophical combination."
The book of Dr. Buchanan to which I have referred, con-
tains the following interesting extracts, upon which I shall
take the liberty to make a few comments.
Sketches of Buchanan's Discoveries.
" For some months past I have been engaged, during the inter-
vals of professional engagements, in an experimental investigation
of the functions of the brain, in which I have been so singularly
fortunate, that in the course of a single month, I have been able
to ascertain more of its true physiology than has heretofore been
acquired by all the labors of all the Physiologists and Pathologists
who have ever been engaged in observing and making experiments
to ascertain the nature and locality of its various functions."
This can only be met by a direct contradiction.
I have been engaged for many years in the investigation
of Phreno-physiology, with a view to improve and perfect
the science. And I have thoroughly examined the preten-
sions of Dr. B. ; and I assure the public that he has not
added a single item to our knowledge.
" While the ink is yet wet, with which I record this sentence, 1
cannot repress the feeling of strangeness with which I view so
comprehensive an assertion, when placed in writing, although I
know it to be but a naked statement of a portion of the facts,
which I have ascertained by the testimony of my own senses, and
which have been witnessed by many others. These facts, and
the experiments in which I have been engaged, have lost a portion
NEUROLOGY. 253
of their novelty and wonder with me by frequent repetition ; but
to suppose that results of such magnitude have been so speedily
and correctly attained, and that the promulgation of such discover-
ies has devolved upon one whom neither years nor official honors
have placed in so authoritative a position, awakens many peculiar
emotions.
" Fortunately, it requires neither rank nor title, nor persuasive
eloquence, to secure the reception of these truths, The experi-
ments by which they have been tested can easily be repeated, and
cannot leave a doubt upon the mind of any, nor do they suggest
any thing for debate. Their reception must be instantaneous.
" I am thus prepared to teach the true physiology of the brain ;
to correct the errors that have heretofore been made, and to give
the function of its smallest organs with a precision which it would
once have been deemed chimerical to expect. Yet every propo-
sition which I advance shall be accompanied, on the spot, by ex-
perimental demonstration, as palpable and satisfactory, even as
those of chemistry."
I assert, on the contrary, without hesitation, that the
falsity of every new proposition which he has advanced
can be shown by similar experiments.
''
Yet how, asks the wondering and incredulous metaphysician,
can this possibly be accomplished ? How can the sublime science
of mind be degraded, into a mere subject of physiological experi-
ment, and an hour's observation become the substitute for heavy
folios of reasoning ?
" By the simplest means imaginable. It is in my power to ex-
cite, in a few moments, any portion of the brain, either large or
small ; to put that portion into full and vigorous action as an
efficient portion of the character of the person upon whom I oper-
ate, and then, at will, suspend its action, and excite the action of
its antagonist organ, or of any other organ, or group of organs,
that I choose to bring into play."
I deny that he can do this in any other way than that in
which it was done by the mesmerizers, " long time ago,"
and had he been well acquainted with mesmerism and
254 NEUROLOGY.
Phrenology, as I have been in the habit of teaching them,
he would not have deceived himself with these egotistical
delusions.
" The idea which led to these developments, though long im-
pressed upon my mind, like many other plans to which I hoped a
consummation, has but lately been carried into effect Three years
since I had made important progress in craniological science, and
traced the outlines of « the Pathognomic System of Phrenology ;'
" I had printed a prospectus and obtained subscribers to this work,
to be issued in five volumes, embracing the whole of the sciences
of Phrenology and Pathognomy. But discovering that, by the
plan I was pursuing, a lifetime would scarcely be sufficient to re-
organize the science, and to test every proposition, I determined,
if possible, to find some shorter road to the arcana of Cerebral
Physiology. The labor of theorizing, observation, induction and
philosophical combination, might form a system, indeed, of toler-
able accuracy ; but the lifetime expended in such labors, I foresaw,
would be poorly rewarded, as the moral and intellectual organs in
ninety-nine-hundreths of the human race, are too feeble to per-
ceive, or to appreciate, the truth of any new discovery, The
principles thus discovered, would have to undergo the tedious or-
deal of criticism and experiment, by incompetent as well as com-
petent men, before they could receive the proper credit, 1 could
not consent to spend a life in the labor of untying a Gordian knot
for the benefit of posterity, but determined to find the sword with
which I could cleave it open at once, and bring the most recondite
truths palpably before the public eye.
" In plainer terms, I determined to ascertain the functions of the
brain in some simple and direct manner, which would place our
knowledge of its functions upon a par with the other portions of
experimental physiology. To do this, I determined to excite the
different portions of the brain by a galvanic or galvanoid fluid,
and calling them separately into action, to watch the resultant
phenomena ; or, by exciting them in myself, to enjoy at once, a
perfect consciousness of the nature of each faculty and its organ.
In this attempt, I have met with even a more glorious success
than I had ever anticipated.
NEUROLOGY. 255
" I have discovered the means of exciting, at will, any portion
of the brain—any organ, or any number of organs, and of retard-
ing or suspending their action. Even the small perceptive con-
volutions, on the super-orbitar plate, have proved to be completely
under my control ; and I have many times excited the organ of
Form or Calculation, Color or Order, without allowing the excite-
ment to extend beyond the organ which I wished to call into
play. In the most susceptible subjects, I find that I have been
able to assume the entire control of their characters, and operate
upon their minds or bodies in the most fantastic manner that
caprice could suggest.
" I say nothing of my mode of operation at present, as that will
be displayed hereafter publicly—and the experiments, unless con-
ducted by persons who are well acquainted with Neurology, may
be managed so as to injure, instead of benefiting, the health."
By publishing to the wr
orld that he could excite the sep-
arate portions of the brain, and inducing gentlemen of re-
spectability to endorse the statement, while he " said noth-
ing of his mode of operation," many who had not seen his
experiments, were led to believe that he had actually made
a new-
and important discovery. I confess this wr
as my own
case ; I wrote a letter to Dr. Caldwell, to make inquiries
concerning the reality of the discovery, and received a very
kind reply, in which I was assured that " some important
discoveries in Neurology" had actually been made, and that
the great discoverer would soon honor our region with
a visit, when we should have an opportunity to judge for
ourselves. In the mean time, Mr. Sunderland, a Metho-
dist clergyman of N. Y. City, claimed to have made essen-
tially the same discovery : that is, he claimed to have dis-
covered the means of exciting the mental organs by touch-
ing the head with his finger. But as Dr. B. said nothing
of his mode of operation, it was supposed that there was
something peculiar in his method to distinguish it from the
method of Mr. Sunderland. When Dr. B. arrived in N. Y.
he " displayed publicly" his mode of operation, and it was
25G NEUROLOGY.
found to be essentially the same as that of Mr. Sunderland.
His mode of operation was to take a person who was sus-
ceptible of mesmeric or Etheropathic induction and having
first ascertained his susceptibility, he put the extremity of
one finger upon his temple and held it there until the sub-
ject was asleep—this part of the head was therefore called
the organ of Somnolence. By touching in a similar manner
another part of the head he waked the subject up. He then
proceeded with his other experiments in the same manner.
By touching behind the ear he excited (so he pretended)
the organ of Felony \ a little higher, the organ of Profanity ;
still higher the organ of Acquisitiveness ; higher yet the or-
gan of Sleep; above and behind the organ of Sleep (near Ad-
hesiveness) he ''touched off" the organ of Ignorance, the
organ of Stupidity and the organ of Imbecility. Sometimes he
excitedthemby Sympathy, that is, if instead of the Dr. touch-
ing the head of the subject, the subject touched the head of
the Dr. the same effects were produced; for instance, if the
subject touched the organ of Ignorance on the Dr's head, the
subject was instantly inspired with " a fellow feeling," and
became ignorant, stupid, &c. I first saw the experiments
repeated at Albany, by a most enthusiastic friend of Dr. B.
—
a gentleman who is immeasurably superior to him in saga-
city; and upon a subject, a Lady of good character and family,
of exceeding susceptibility, and of uncommon natural and
acquired endowments. Every experiment succeeded ad-
mirably. The organs were excited and the new discove-
ries demonstrated and illustrated in such a manner as to
convince all—but myself—that the organs of Insanity, Idio-
cy, Dreaming, Immortality, Childishness, Felony and numer-
ous other " airy nothings," have a a local habitation and a
name." I said but little in opposition at the time, except
to a few confidential friends, and from them I received no
sympathy. From my acquaintance with phrenology, I
knew that they were wrong in respect to the pretended new
NEUROLOGY. 257
organs, bat I was not satisfied that the whole was a delu-
sion until I had myself repeated the experiments, and had
discovered the source of error in the nature of Credencive-
ness, Will and Clairvoyance, which Buchanan, Sunderland,
Caldwell, Elliotson and others had overlooked. I at length
found that no reliance whatever, could be placed upon the
experiments made by touching the head—that in fact the
touching had nothing to do with the effect produced, and
consequently nothing can be learned concerning the function
of the part touched, by these experiments. If any thing can
be learned, it must be by Clairvoyance, and even this is
more uncertain than a lottery. Again he says,
—
" The question then naturally arises, since the functions of every
organ have been ascertained with this precision, and Cerebral
Physiology has become on a sudden a science of demonstrable
accuracy, whether the existing science of Phrenology is overturn-
ed or established by the new discoveries. The experienced and
philosophic practical Phrenologist will easily anticipate the ans-
wer. Knowing the unimpeachable ^truth of the body of the
science ; he knows too, that it is still an inaccurate or imperfect
doctrine, when we survey the mass of its details. He finds him-
self occasionally liable to practical errors, for which he is at a loss
to account, and of which he can dispose only, by using the old
phrase, so often sophistically applied, ' exceptio probat regulum.'
"Asa practical Phrenologist, having wandered farther from the
doctrines of Gall and Spurzheim than any other zealous cultivator
of craniolozy, I had to some extent abandoned the use of the es-
tablished phrenological nomenclature. Believing that the doctrines
of Phrenology would be for some time a matter of debate, and
deeming it rather premature to determine the precise functions of
organs by their names, I used and even taught my students the
anatomical nomenclature, deeming it more convenient that the
name should express the fixed anatomical position of the organ,
than that it should express the unfixed and not very precise doc-
trine of their functions. Seeking the truth boldly, regardless of all
'ems, 1 had become distrustful of the established doctrine, and
while engaged in making additions to it, was by no means back-
12
258 NEUROLOGY.
ward in rejecting every thing which did not stand the test of sound
reasoning or of craniological observation.
" When I found the means of testing all the principles of Phre-
nology, by inspiring the organs to speak for themselves, I was of
course eager to learn what was their decision upon the doctrines
of Gall and Spurzheim, and what was to be the fate of my own
craniological doctrines.
" The result has been singularly happy : while the truth of my
own views in every essential point has been well maintained, it
has been done at as little expense as possible to the existing system.
In some instances in which my doctrine departed materially from
the doctrine of Gall and Spurzheim, decisive experiments have
presented a compromise, sustaining as far as practicable the truth
of both; showing that the principles of each, though apparently
contradictory, were really just and harmonious, but limited views
of the same subject, which a more extensive survey combines into
one picture."
We here get the key to many of the pretended discov-
eries of Dr. Buchanan. It seems that he had been for some
time dreaming and scheming upon a new system of notions,
and being naturally of a romantic and visionary turn of mind
he had formed some highly erroneous conceptions of phre-
nology and physiology ; consequently when he made (as
he supposed) the organs speak for themselves, he made them
speak his own doctrines, their language was but an echo of
his thoughts, and their testimony was of course in favor of
his " own craniological doctrines ;" like another innocent
youth whom we read of in ancient classic story, he fell des-
perately in love with his own shadow. He says,
—
" I have been in the habit of teaching the phrenological doctrine,
that every portion of the brain sustained a particular relation to
the body, by means of which the circulation and all the phenom-
ena of life are modified through the cerebral agency ; that the
paramount influence of the brain gave to the body its peculiar
growth, form and temperament; that every portion of Jhe body
had a specific relation to some part of the brain, upon which it
NEUROLOGY. 259
was dependent for innervation, and "with which it sympathized in
health, disease and excitement. I had made some progress in
tracing out the laws of this innervation, and establishing the rela-
tion that existed between each portion of the body and each portion
of the brain—thus ascertaining to what classes of disease partic-
ular forms of the brain made us liable, or with what portion of
the brain and what kind of cerebral excitement each disease was
connected—in other words, making a phrenological classification
of disease, and of all the phenomena of life.
" Having done this, it became my duty when I found the brain
under my control, to proceed directly to testing its influences upon
the body, and its power of modifying the phenomena of disease,
in a curative or an injurious manner. In this, my expectations
have been fully and exactly realized.
" I have found it perfectly practicable to operate upon the various
portions of the body, and stimulate or modify their functions by
the appropriate action upon the cerebral sources of their inner-
vation."
It can easily be demonstrated, and often has been, that
the circulation and the motions of the heart are independent
of the brain, [See Le Galois on Life, with Cuvier's report,]
for the head can be cut off and thrown away, and yet the
heart can beat and the blood circulate for an hour. But
Dr. B. did not know this ; for it seems that he had acquired
the belief that the heart is dependent upon the brain for its
growth and innervation. He vras not aware that deformed
creatures have been born with perfect bodies yet destitute
of brain : or if he had heard of these things he disregarded
them and formed these unfounded opinions. Under these
circumstances he touched the heads of his subjects and
inquired, like Macbeth among the witches, or a devotee
at the Delphian shrine, what was to be the fate of his favo-
rite doctrines ; and when echo returned him his own views
in reply, he remarks with delightful self-complacency
—
u In
this my expectations have been fully and exactly realized."
Trie key to his error is found in the fact that the same ef-
2G0 NEUROLOGY.
fects may be produced by touching different parts or by not
touching at all. He continues,
—
" 1 would offer a word in reference to the wonderful ' art,
science, or imposture,' which has made so much noise, and ex-
cited so much credulity, opposition, debate and criticism, under
the title of Animal Magnetism.
" I have proven by experiment, that most of the phenomena
which have been reported by the magnetists, are real occurrences,
and by no means incompatible with the known laws of Physiology,
although they derive their explanation from principles which
Physiologists have not yet known, and which the magnetists do
not appear to have properly sought. Animal Magnetism has been
too much of a display of wonderful results, and there has not been
a sufficient and efficient investigation of the laws, by which those
results have been produced. To such an investigation, I have
directed my efforts, guided by an improved system of Cerebral
Physiology, and I have found no very formidable difficulty. By
means of the Pathognomic laws and Phrenological principles, which
I have established, I flatter myself that the sunlight of science will
soon rest upon this mysterious terra incognita, in which the usual
laws of Physiology and Psychology, seem at present mingled,
confounded and lost."
Among all those who have made a " display of wx
onderful
results," no one has equaled this very person who is thus
rebuking the magnetists, and surely no one has done as
much as he to produce confusion, to shut out the sunlight
of science from this mysterious incognita, and to mislead the
sincere inquirer. He proceeds,
—
" The term * Neurology,' by signifying the science of the
nervous system, is competent to embrace all its functions, as well
the mental as the corporeal, and is therefore the proper term for
that comprehensive science, of which Craniology, Phrenology
and Physiology, are constituent portions."
" Neurology" is a term sufficiently comprehensive to in-
clude all the phenomena of the nervous system, and for this
NEUROLOGY. 261
purpose has been long used, but it cannot be made to em-
brace all the phenomena of mesmerism or Etheropathy, for
the motion of Etherium exists independently of the nervous
system. It is related to every thing,—light, heat, oxygen,
food, blood, &c. It produces effects upon the nerves, and
is conducted by them, but it often is transmitted without
the aid of nerves ; by will, for instance, it passes from one
end of a room to another without being dependent upon
nerves for its transmission through the space which inter-
venes between the operator and the subject. I consider
nerves merely conductors of etherean motions. Again,
—
" At first, gentlemen who may engage in illustrating Neurology,
will be disappointed in some of their experiments, because of the
inaccuracy of the existing science of Phrenology One-third
of the organs are inaccurately located ; and a large number (about
two-thirds of my catalogue) are not known or described in any
treatise on the science.
" After the publication of my System of Neurology, and the
illustrative bust, experiments may be made with perfect certainty
as to the results.
" There will be failures, also, for another reason : most of the
functions displayed by the excitement of the different organs are
compound. The [operations will therefore sometimes display a
compound function, and sometimes a simple function. The results
will thus become contradictory, until the operators understand the
laws of antagonism and co-operation, which are almost entirely
unknown to Phrenologists at present,"
I have already spoken of the new organs mentioned in
my work, and which Dr. B. re-discovered, and in another
place I shall speak of his " laws of antagonism and co-
operation." He says
—
" "When discoveries of such magnitude came into my possession
I felt eager to establish them immediately, by crossing the Atlan
tic and making them known in' London and Paris. The propriety
however, of perfecting my discoveries, as far as possible, has in
duced me to remain thus long quietly engaged in their prosecution
and in preparing for the press an exposition of what I have done.'
282 NEUROLOGY.
" 1 would remark, that I have not been engaged in making ex-
periments upon subjects in a magnetic or somnolent condition, but
solely upon persons in their natural condition."
Here is another most egregious mistake. Dr. Buchanan
labors under the delusion that his subjects are in the natural
or normal condition. I hope I have sufficiently explained
this matter in another place. Because the subjects are not
and never have been put to sleep by the inductive process,
he thinks that they are in " their natural condition." He
might as well say that the inmates of bedlam are in their
natural condition, because they are not asleep. One of the
best subjects which he had when in this vicinity, and who
is particularly referred to in one of his most laudatory re-
ports, is my intimate friend, a gentleman of veracity and
talent. I had operated upon him repeatedly before Dr. B.
saw him, and I know that when in his natural condition he
is a prudent and intellectual man, but wT
hen inducted he be-
comes deranged in his functions in proportion to the degree
of induction. Now I can take this subject and operate upon
him in such a way as to contradict all the doctrines of
Buchanan, and I pledge myself to do so on any proper
occasion. I can find a hundred subjects who seem to be
perfectly rational—who are awake and converse and act as
usual, but if I take a handkerchief, and assert that it is a
snake, they will all believe it, and make oath of its truth.
Now will Dr. B. say that these subjects are in their natural
condition ? Again,
—
" Disregarding the very meaning of the word Neurology, and
probably unacquainted with its derivation, ignorant scoffers would
repeat that this science was nothing more than the old story of
Animal Magnetism, Clairvoyance, &c. ; others would assert that
it was totally unlike—both confounding the science of Neurology
with the experiments by which it was demonstrated. Some, by a
singular combination of skepticism and credulity, were even led to
adopt the laughable theory, that I produced the wonderful results
NEUROLOGY. 263
of my experiments by the mere power of my will, controlling every
one whom J approached ! and compelling them to feel such emo-
tions as I willed them to experience !
!"
He seems particularly sensitive on this subject, and takes
a great deal of pains to prevent us from thinking that his
"Neurology" is the same thing as "the old story of
Animal Magnetism, Clairvoyance, &c." He has so indus-
triously circulated the assertion that Neurology is something
different from Animal Magnetism, that people generally
suppose it to be true. Now the fact really is that what
Buchanan calls Neurology is the illegitimate offspring of
this same Animal Magnetism which it " repudiates." It
was begotten by the union of Animal Magnetism with cre-
dulity ; and though at present it pretends to be ashamed of
its father, there is much more reason for Magnetism to
blush at the deformity and the indiscretion of its ill begotten
bantling. These remarks will apply with equal truth to
Sunderland's " Pathetism," and Braid's " Hypnotism"—and
I will venture to predict that they w7
ill all three be left to
suffer a miserable death, from the neglect of the respectable
dupes who have hitherto officiated as their god-parents.
He says,
—
" Such notions being afloat, I have been compelled to express
myself frequently, in public and in private, in something like the
following manner
:
'•'
Neurology is a comprehensive science, including all the phe-
nomena of mind and body. The Animal Magnetists, are engaged
in cultivating one department of this science, which is rich in
wonders. Their results, although they seem incredible, are
established by unanswerable testimony ; and, therefore, must be
received. The experiments which 1 am performing, are different,
as they are simply designed to illustrate the ordinary or normal
functions, and the pathology of the human mind and body. My
operations aim at utility, by explaining the machinery of life, and
the powers of each organ : those of Animal Magnetism, develop
extraordinary or transcendental phenomena, by the joint influence
264 NEUROLOGY.
of two or more individuals. The phenomena thus developed are
mysterious and wonderful ; and, indeed, we seem in a fair way to
realize through these operations, that « truth is strange—stranger
than fiction.'
"
The utter inconsistency of these remarks may be inferred
from the fact that he claims as " ordinary or normal func-
tions," such manifestations as " insanity," " stupidity,"
" imbecility," " baseness," " felony," &c. (See his cata-
logue of newly discovered organs.)
The following extract from the same book was originally
published by one of Dr. B.'s pupils and shows how they
understood the matter :
—
" Some of our brother editors, as well as many with whom we
have conversed, even here, do not seem to know what Neurology
is. No longer since than Wednesday evening, a medical stndent
informed us that he had all along regarded it as none other than
the veritable science of Mesmerism, or Animal Magnetism ; and
was quite astonished on learning that Neurology was merely the
Physiology of the Nervous System ; and that the singular experi-
ments in which Dr. B. has been engaged, are designed to show the
functions of every part of the nervous mass contained in the head,
by exciting that part, by external irritation, in such a manner, as
to cause a distinct manifestation of its peculiar properties, whether
mental or corporeal.
" Those who recognize Phrenology as a true science ; (and who
does not ?) who understand the mysterious operation of the mind,
upon the whole nervous system, through the medium of its organ,
or mass of organs, the brain ; and who are aware how readily the
different organs of the brain can be recognized, classified, and their
volume defined by exterior examination, can, with readiness, com-
prehend the whole secret of Dr. Buchanan's operations ; which
consists merely, in exciting any organ, or combination of organs,
to greater activity, by operating with the ringers, upon that por-
tion of the skull under which they are located. Hunger, thirst,
anger, benevolence, vision, muscular strength, hearing, &c, may
be readily excited in this way. Mesmerism, with its mysterious
manipulations, its passes, its clairvoyant conditions, its magnetic
NEUROLOGY. 265
states and transmissions of mental power and' ubiquity, all opera-
ting independent of contact, no more resemble the science of Neu-
rology, as defined and exemplified by Dr. B., than the practice of
the faith doctors does the regular practice of medicine.
" "When our neighbors come to give the matter a ' sober second
thought,' and witness a tithe of the experiments which Dr. B. has
made in Louisville, in the presence of hundreds, and upon all
classes of subjects, we shall expect to find them more warm in
their commendations than we have been. We- are a skeptical
people in Louisville, in matters of this kind, and yield to nothing
which is not sustained by unquestionable philosophical demon-
strations, heard and seen by ourselves."
" The essence of my discoveries consists in determining the seat
of all the functions of the nervous system, whether they relate to
mind or body. For instance, I determine with equal certainty the
sources of the passion of anger ; the sentiment of benevolence ;
the faculty of vision ; the power of secreting bile ; the power of
secreting the gastric juice ; or the power of using the muscles in
locomotion.
" Every passion or emotion that man can feel ; every intellect-
ual faculty that he can exercise, and every function that is per-
formed in any part of his body, has a legitimate origin in some
portion of his nervous system. The result of my investigations
shows that all of these localities can'be ascertained ; and such has
been my progress, that but few important principles have been left
for future discovery."
Howr
very grateful ought we to be to Dr. Buchanan for
discovering everything in physiology, and leaving nothing
more for us common mortals to do but to feast upon the
fruits of his labors ! What if he should take it into his head
to turn his mind to other departments of science, with a de-
termination "not to spend a life in the labor of untying a
Gordian Knot for the benefit of posterity, but to find the
sword with which to cleave it open at once and bring the
most recondite truths palpably before the public eye !"
There would be an end to the race of philosophers, for their
" occupation would be gone." He proceeds,
—
12*
266 NEUROLOGY.
" Since this publication, my experience has daily given me new
facts and principles. To avoid all further detail, I would simply
remark, that I have found the key to the whole mechanism of
man ; and that I will undertake, under proper circumstances, to
execute any command that you may see fit to lay upon me, for
the purpose of modifying the state of either mind or body ;
pro-
ving that we may lay bare the deepest mysteries of Nature, and
that we are now in the possession of knowledge which must be
of invaluable utility to the human race."
And " I will undertake, under proper circumstances, to
execute" everything which Buchanan does without contact
or touching the head at all, and without touching the body
at all ; and I will undertake to show that all these things,
or others like them, were known and practiced by mesmer-
izers and magnetisers before Buchanan or Sunderland were
heard of. Again,
—
" The number of independent functions, which may thus be de-
monstrated by experiment, with an adequately susceptible person,
amounts to 166 ; but, for convenience of instruction, I demonstrate
usually not more than one hundred. With a subject of large
brain, well cultivated mind, and high susceptibility. I have no
doubt that even as many as two hundred might be shown."
This was written April 5, 1842. I have before me a
" Diagram" published by Dr. Buchanan in 1843, in the ex-
planation of which he says,
—
" Any one who has the ambition of discovery, can easily, by
experimenting on an impressible constitution, discover hundreds of
new organs or modes of manifestation by making additional subdi-
visions. Had the author published all the distinct functions which
he has observed, they would have amounted to more than a thou-
sand !"
I doubt whether any man can be found who has sufficient
genius to write a sentence which shall surpass the above in
foolishness. If there is any thing on earth more supremely
ridiculous, it is the position of those who have recommend-
ed such doctrines to the public.
NEUROLOGY. 267
Yet there is truth in Dr. Buchanan's promise, that " any-
one can, by experimenting on an impressible constitution,
discover hundreds of new organs j" and I " will undertake
to execute" an order for any number or any kind of new
organs which shall be wanted for the gratification of the
public credulity. If any one else will " undertake" to fur-
nish names, I will manufacture the organs according to " the
laws of antagonism and co-operation" which are practiced
by Dr. Buchanan and Dr. Caldwell. Again,
—
" Every function, or organ, is associated for its balance and
control with an antagonist function or organ ; and by means of
these laws of antagonism, the whole mass of Cerebral Physiology
assumes a wonderful and beautiful simplicity,"
This doctrine of " antagonism" is taught by others besides
Dr. Buchanan. It is taught by all those who excite (as
they suppose) the organs by touching the head. In the
preface of my " New System of Phrenology," I remarked
that " I cannot countenance the idea that some organs were
intended as antagonists to others ; they all act in harmony ;
and though some are more intimately related than others,
no one, unless abused, counteracts the proper effects of an-
other." An anonymous writer in the u American Phreno-
logical Journal" (the proprietor of the Journal says that it
is Dr. Caldwell) devotes thirteen pages to criticise my book,
and begins by attacking the remarks in my preface concern-
ing antagonism. In this criticism Dr. Caldwell takes the
ground distinctly, that some of the organs of mind were be-
stowed for the very purpose of opposing others. I have
not the article now before me, but I recollect that he re-
bukes me severely for holding a different opinion. Dr.
Buchanan, it must be remembered, was once a pupil of Dr.
Caldwell, and very naturally imbibed his opinions on this
subject as well as others. Accordingly when Buchanan
made " his organs speak for themselves," they spoke in fa-
268 NEUROLOGY.
vor of antagonist organs in a manner which must have as-
tonished a sensible man like Dr. Caldwell. Is it not
wonderful that his suspicions were not excited when such
new antagonist organs were introduced as " Felony, Base-
ness, Desperation, Idiocy and Coarseness ?"
The true doctrine upon this subject, I conceive is, that
any organ is an antagonist to every other which opposes its
operation and gratification—two organs may be antagonists
on one occasion and co-operators upon another ; but I re-
peat what I stated in the preface of my " New System of
Phrenology," u No organ was intended to counteract the pro-
per effects of another." Conscientiousness, for instance, may
co-operate with Kindness to oppose Destructiveness, where
its aim is unjust; but the same Conscientiousness may co-
operate with Destructiveness to oppose Kindness, when jus-
tice demands the sacrifice. When two organs tend to op-
posite results, and the stimulating circumstances are equal,
the largest organ will prevail. If the organs are equally
large and the stimulus of each equal, the result will be an
intermediate course in which both powers will be gratified
in a medium degree only ; but if the size or the stimulus of
one surpasses that of the other, the gratification will equally
surpass if opportunity is equally favorable to both. There
is then no such thing as an organ for an antagonist function,
per se. By adopting a different doctrine, Dr. Buchanan has
involved himself in a labyrinth from which nothing but re-
traction can extricate him. Some of the new organs which
he proposes, are doubtless intended to supply the demand
for antagonist organs. Thus the organ of Suicide is intro-
duced to antagonize the organ of Vitality—Ignorance versus
Knowledge—Mortality versus Immortality—Sanity versus
Insanity, and so on to the end of the chapter.
Extractfrom 'Dr. Buchanan's explanation of his Diagram.
" Dormant Region. —This is the region productive of trance,
NEUROLOGY. 269
and efforts of the mind to know external phenomena intuitively.
These efforts have been called clairvoyance, prevision and presenti-
ment. The tendency to such phenomena depends upon those or-
gans which lie in the order above-named, extending from the sense
of heights, upwards upon the internal aspect of the front lobe.
These organs are called dormant, because they are in a dormant or
inactive state in most persons."
Buchanan's idea is, that Clairvo}~ance depends upon cer-
tain organs situated between the upper part of the nose and
the top of the forehead. There is not the least foundation
to this assertion beyond the prolific fancy of Dr. B. If this
is really true and Dr. B. can excite, as he says he can, any
organ he pleases, he can of course excite these organs and
produce Clairvoyance at any time in any susceptible sub-
ject ; but he cannot do this, and he knows it ; what then be-
comes of his boast about " exciting any organ," &c.
The following is a part of the " Catalogue of Organs" as
published by Buchanan with his " Diagram" which is in-
tended to show their location :
—
" Disease—Relaxation—Indolence—Sullenness — Insanity—Id-
iocy—Childishness—Rashness—Carelessness—Restlessness —De-
structiveness—Turbulence—Amativeness—Buffoonery—Animality
—Ardor, or Calorification—Conductor Organs ; Intellectual—Moral
—Selfish.
" Ignorance. —Stupidity—Imbecility—Sleep—Blindness—Awk-
wardness—Adhesiveness, &c. &c. Not having determined upon
the nomenclature, the other names of this region are for the present
omitted.
"Hardihood, or Insensibility—Temperance— Skepticism— Coarse-
ness—Vigilance — Combativeness —Moroseness—Perverseness
—
Rudeness—Hostility—Censoriousness— Sternness—Secretiveness
—
Reserve—Deceit—Suspicion—Selfishness—Acquisitiveness—Econ-
omy—Trading—Avarice—Profanity—Irritability—Gambling—Fel-
ony—Desperation—Vitality—Baseness—Suicide—Hatred—Cruelty
—Misanthropy—Ambition : Moral—Criminal.*'
270 NEUROLOGY.
It should be particularly remarked that no two of the
professional Head Touchers agree. Sunderland and Fowler
locate Secretiveness and Acquisitiveness in the temple
were Spurzheim does, but Buchanan and others place them
in the occiput, near Combativeness ; and each rival " touch-
er" accuses the other of having the organs of " Ignorance
and Stupidity" in a state of too great activity for the " an-
tagonist organs,"
SECTION XIV
PHRENO-MAGNETISM, PATHETISM AND
HYPNOTISM.
The Rev. La Roy Sunderland, in the first number of the
Magnet, published June, 1842, claims to have been the first
person to make use of " Living Magnetism" to discover the
functions of the brain. I beg leave to refer to my experi-
ments with Mr. Hogoboom, of Nassau, as a refutation of
this claim. I have never heard of any attempts having been
made to discover the functions of the brain by animal mag-
netism, previous to the experiments which I made in Buffalo
by means of Clairvoyance, in 183S.
The following from Sunderland's Magnet, vol. 1, No. 1,
is in itself a literary and scientific curiosity, and it will serve
to show the extent to which the head-touching mania was
carried, and the confidence with which the resulting the-
ories were proclaimed :
—
" The editor of this work believes himself to have been the first
in this, or any other country, to use Living Magnetism as a means
for Physiological and Phrenological discoveries. —And, though
almost any other person might have found out the same results
had he made use of the appropriate means, yet many will doubt-
less turn up the lip at our statements, who, themselves, would
have considered it an immortal honor to have enjoyed the facilities
which have so richly crowned our humble inquiries after truth.
" Polarity of the Mental and Physical Organs.—The brain
has five large poles, corresponding with five others in the heart.
And, with these large poles, there are consecutive poles through-
272 PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
out the entire system, connected with every mental and vital organ,
and with every muscle and portion of the body which is concerned
in the production of voluntary and involuntary motion.
V All the organs and muscles of the system are connected with
the magnetic forces from the brain, so that while the heart is the
great fountain of vitality to the system, the brain is the organ of
thought for the mind. And each vital and mental organ has its
corresponding pole, positive and negative, and these sympathetic
•points from the different organs are all located in the face and neck,
so that by operating either on these sympathetic points in the face,
or the poles of the organs in the brain, I can excite any mental or
physical action, and remove it, at pleasure, as the condition of the
patient may require.
" For instance, by operating on one portion of the brain, I pro-
duce, in the mind of the patient, the feeling of Self-Esteem; by op-
erating on another portion, I produce the feeling of Gratitude ; on
another, the feeling of Joy ; on another, the feeling of Filial Love;
and so of every emotion or sensation which is peculiar to the hu-
man mind. And thus, also, of the physical organs. The sympa-
thetic points, corresponding with the lungs, are located in the face,
where you will see the hectic flush, in cases of pulmonary con-
sumption. The points (or poles, it may be,) of the organs of smell,
are located at the lower part, each side, of the nose, and by ope-
rating here, I excite the corresponding organ of Smell. The sym-
pathetic points of Mirthfulness are located in the corners of the
mouth, and when I operate on these points, they are drawn up in
the act of laughing.
" This discovery gives the only true foundation for Physiognomy
and Pathognomy. It shows, how it is that the mind excites the
organs, and, also, how it is that the mental faculties excite one an-
other, and when they are in exercise, it shows how it is that they
produce the appropriate expression in the eyes, and features of the
face. Think of it, reader ! And then say what could be more in-
teresting than a knowledge of these laws, which, as it would seem,
have remained hidden for six thousand years, by which the mind
looks out in the face, and express its emotions through the organs
of clay !
11
This discovery enables us to tell you how it is that the feel-
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 273
ings of the mind are conveyed in the tones of the voice ; and by
what process the health is affected by the exercise of the intellect
;
—in a -word, it gives the only true and satisfactory account of the
manner by which mind and matter are connected, and reciprocally
act upon each other. And thus I am able, by operating on the
poles of the organs, to cause the patient to feel the strongest emo-
tions of Hope, Fear, Courage, Mirthfulness, or in fact, any feeling
appropriate to the human mind.
" I have, times without number, produced Sleep, Somnambulism,
Monomania, Insanity, or Madness, and removed the excitement at
pleasure. By operating upon the sympathetic points in the face,
I have produced, or suppressed action in the heart, lungs, liver,
spleen, kidneys, stomach, larynx, &c, or any muscle or limb
in the system ; and by the same means, I have found the
nerves of sensation throughout the system may be excited or par-
alyzed, and to a degree truly astonishing to such as have never
seen these most interesting phenomena.
" I have often removed, in a short time, great nervous excite-
ment, and by the same means relieved persons who have suffered
for years from troublesome dreams and a want of refreshing sleep.
" Groups axd Pairs of Organs.—Another most interesting
discovery I have made, is, that the Phrenological organs not only
exist in groups, corresponding with the nature of their functions,
but most, if not all of them, in double pairs, and some in triple and
even quadruple pairs ; and the uniformity and beauty of the groups,
corresponding, as they do, with the consecutive sympathetic points in
the face, is more interesting than I can find language to describe.
Never was I so profoundly impressed with a sense of the wisdom
of that great and good Being, as on finding the location and group-
ing of the different pairs of organs, with their corresponding sympa-
thetic points in the face.
" Thus, for instance, I find in one group those which relate to
Attachments ; in another, those which relate to Home and Coun-
try; in another, those which relate to Will, Decision, Justice and
Government ; in another, those which relate to the Deity and a
Future State ; in another, those which relate to the defence of our-
selves, and the preservation of our own lives. And all the corres-
ponding poles of the perceptive faculties, together with Sublimity,
274 PHRENO- MAGNETISM.
are located in the eye ; and the poles of the affections are located
around the mouth !
" Their are two pairs of Individuality, one taking cognizance of
things and the other of persons ; two of Eventuality, one pair tak-
ing cognizance of recent, and the other of ancient events ; two of
Comparison, one pair for ideas, and the other for things; two of
Benevolence, one for giving, and the other for pity ; two of Ven-
eration, one for the Deity, and the other for man ; two of Firmness,
one relating to conscientiousness, and the other for perseverance,
etc. ; two of Self-Esteem, one for the Human Will and self-gov-
ernment, and the other for the government of others ; two pairs for
Fear ; two for Music ; two for Place, and so of the organs of Con-
scientiousness, Belief, Gratitude, Amativeness ; three of Marvel-
ousness, one for Faith, one for Human Credence, and another for
anticipating future events ; and three for Secretiveness, one for Dis-
guise, one for Keeping Secrets, and the other for Cunning, as is
seen in the cat and fox ; in the group of Acquisitiveness there are
three, one giving a desire for Money, one for Keeping, and one giv-
ing a disposition to Traffic ; in the group of Approbativeness, there
are four, one giving a regard for Character, one giving a desire
for Praise, Notoriety, one giving a sense of Ridicule, and another
giving a desire for Show, and when large, giving Vanity.
" Opposite Organs—Positive and Negative.—Another import-
ant fact, deeply interesting to Phrenologists, which is demonstrat-
ed by my discoveries, is the opposition of the different mental or-
gans. My experiments have proved that the organs are balanced
by positive and negative poles ; and that their functions are in op-
position to each other is certain. As, for instance, one organ is for
Joy, another for Sadness ; one for Love, another for Aversion ; one
for Self-Government, another for Submission ; one for Forgiveness,
another for Retribution ; one for Patience, another for Discontent-
ment ; one for Courage, another for physical Fear ; one for Confi-
dence in man, another for Suspicion or Jealousy ; one for Ancient,
another for Recent Events ; one giving a desire to see Old Places,
another for New Places, or traveling ; one for Destructiveness, an-
other for Preserving ; one for Keeping Secrets, another for Loqua-
city ; one for Opposiveness, another for Suavity ; one for Self-
Esteem, another for Humility ; one for Praise, another for Censure
;
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 275
one giving a sense of Dependence, and another giving a sense of
Independence ; &c, &c.
" This discovery gives the true solution of various shades in the
characters of different individuals, which have never been explain-
ed, either by Phrenologists or in any system of mental science
heretofore offered to the world. And how beautifully this fact
agrees with the arrangements of nature, to which we have before
referred. There are two magnetic forces, Positive and Negative ;
one repels and expands, the other draws and contracts. And by
these forces all the functions of the human system are carried on,
not excepting the exercises of the mental organs. For how else
could these organs be exercised at all? Should they be subject to
one motion, merely, only in one direction, it would be insanity, or
madness. The organ of Joy, for instance, is counterbalanced by
an organ of Sadness. Were one of these organs to be exercised
without another to check it, Monomania would be the result, and
so of the others.
" Correspondence in the Position and Functions of the
Organs—It had long been known to phrenologists, that the lower
the organs in the head, the more their functions corresponded with
the propensities common to the animal creation. But my experi-
ments have demonstrated, that one pair of the same organs is more
elevated and refined in its functions than the pair below it. Thus,
I find, the first pair of Amativeness are common to animals ; the
pair above are appropriate to intellectual enjoyment. The lower
organs of Comparison take cognizances of things, the upper ones
compare ideas ; the lower organs of Causality are exercised on
things, the upper on metaphysical subjects. And it is a remark-
able fact, that from mere animal instincts, which relate to the
preservation of life, and selfish gratification, the organs not only
ascend in the head, but also in the nature of their functions, till
we come to the highest, which take cognizance of our relation to
the Deity, and a future state, not excepting one which is ap-
propriate to calculating, or perceiving future contingencies !
" New Phrenological Organs. —While our experiments have
in a most remarkable manner, confirmed the discoveries of the im-
mortal Gall, they have brought out and demonstrated the existence
of new organs, among which are the following, viz : —Humility,
276 PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
Joy, Gratitude, Patriotism, Jealousy, Modesty, Aversion, Smell,
Taste, Pity, Cheerfulness, Weeping, Contentment, Wit, as dis-
tinguished from Mirthfulness ; Melody, as distinguished from
Harmony; Retribution, as distinct from Destructiveness ; Method,
directing as to the Manner in which things should be done ; Regu-
larity, as to time and order ; Disguise ; Praise ; Filial Love ; Love
of Pets, as distinguished from Philoprogenitiveness ; besides the
pairs of the organs already described, which, as will be seen, more
than double the number heretofore supposed by Gall, Spurzheim,
Combe and others.
" Thus I have given a concise account of the results of the first
cerebral Magnetic experiments, so far as I know, ever attempted
in this or any other part of the world. These discoveries are real,
and founded in the nature of man, and they will ultimately be ad-
mitted and advocated, as their importance demands. And to have
been an humble instrument in first making these facts known to
the world, affords me more pleasure than I could ever derive from
silver or gold, or all that this earth can afford.
" No accounts of any similar discoveries, as far as we know,
have ever been published in this or any other country. Our ex-
periments have been so often repeated, and for such a length of
time, upon different ^subjects, that we now feel fully authorized to
assume the above positions.
" After commencing my Magnetic experiments, I proposed to
two scientific gentlemen,* of this city, to assist me in conducting
them, and it gives me pleasure to acknowledge the aid which their
kindness has afforded me in this interesting work. And the re-
sults with which these experiments have since been repeated by
others, in different parts of the country, have, I think, sufficiently,
confirmed these assumptions, and left no room to doubt as to -the
influence which Magnetism is destined to exert, in exhibiting and
proving the true Science of Human Life throughout the world."
The jealousy with which these experimenters guarded the
honor which they supposed was to result from these great
exploits, is exhibited in the following extract from the same
* Dr. II H. Sherwood and Mr. 0. S. Fowler, Phrenologist.
PHKE NO- MAGNETISM. 277
number of the Magnet. It is an amusing item in the history
of scientific discoveries, and may be useful in teaching others
not to be in too great haste to blow the trumpet of fame for
themselves :
—
" New Discoveries.—Though the editor of this work believes
himself to have been the first who ever made use of Magnetism for
the purpose of Phrenological discoveries, yet it would seem, that
quite a number of others are somewhat anxious to share this honor
with him. We have seen the names of two different persons, re-
ferred to in an exchange paper, as having been the first to discover
the connection between Magnetism and Phrenology ! And this,
too, for the first time, nearly one year after the accounts of our
own Magnetic cerebral discoveries had been published to the world !
Of course, it is an easy matter for one to find gold, after the mine
has been discovered and opened by another. But, before it can be
consistently assumed, that similar Magnetic discoveries to our own,
were previously made by another, it must be shown that the ac-
counts of them were previously published, and at the time they were
made. This is what we did, about one year ago. And, we are
confident that nothing of the kind had ever been heard of till long
after our experiments were commenced, which resulted in the dis-
coveries described in this work. In the New-York Watchman for
August and October, 1841, were published the accounts of the first
Magnetic cerebral experiments, as far as we know, that ever were
performed, in any part of the world. What discoveries may have
been made by others, since, (and following in our wake,) we, of
course, do not know ; nor indeed, are we anxious to deprive an-
other of the credit of having made a discovery of the same thing,
a year or more after we had published the account of it to the
world. For notices of our discoveries have appeared in more than
one hundred different papers, in every part of the country, and they
have also been published in France and England."
The following from the London" Phalanx" will give an ex-
cellent idea of the reception which these discoveries met
from the very learned gentlemen who compose the Phreno-
logical Society of London :
—
278 PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
" phrenological society.—On Monday evening there was a
full attendance of the members of this Society, at their Chambers
in Exeter-hall.
" The President, Dr. Elliotson, delivered a lecture upon the con-
nection between Phrenology and Mesmerism. He said : I have
always been scrupulously cautious in introducing the subject of
Mesmerism at our meetings on account of the difficulties opposed
to it, and the prejudices existing against it in the minds of man-
kind ; and I would not do any thing to create a difference of opin-
ion in the society. But assertions have recently been made in
public, and opinions have been promulgated in society, (and f see
no reason against adopting them), that Mesmerism could explain
some of the most important principles of Phrenology. I was
always aware of the connection between them, as Mesmerism re-
lates to the whole of the nervous system, of which Phrenology
explains one part. There is the less objection to my introducing
the subject here at present, as the Society for the Diffusion of Use-
ful Knowledge, with Lord Brougham at their head, and four of my
late colleagues at the London University Hospital, have now borne
public testimony to the reality and usefulness of Mesmerism. This
they have done in the monthly number of the Penny Cyclopaedia.
What is more remarkable, they have borne their testimony just as
strongly, and just to the same extent, as I have done in my Phy-
siology, for I have said no more than that one person can influence
another in various ways, without the will or consciousness of the
person influenced ; that so one person can send another to sleep,
and again awaken the latter at pleasure ; and that he would know
nothing of what might happen in the interval. I have said that this
can be done, not only without the knowledge, but even against
the will. But I was at last compelled, to [admit more than
this. I was compelled from what I witnessed, to admit that
persons thus influenced were rendered insensible to pain, even
to that of severe burning, and of sharp surgical operations,
—
such as the insertion of setons, and the removal of tumors. Yet
to all these—mad as it must appear—I have been obliged to admit
' vision without the eye.' Mad as it may appear, I have seen it
in the most unequivocal manner in three cases, where the eyes were
blindfolded with the utmost care.
" But I have mentioned these things, gentlemen, more to smooth
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 279
my way in relating occurrences of a more extraordinary nature
which have happened in America. In the course of last month, I
have received a series of newspapers from America containing ac-
counts of Mesmerism, from which it seemed that when an oper-
ator had reduced a patient to a state of stupor, he could excite the
phrenological organs at will ; that parts of the brain could be
awakened and excited, and afterwards be put to sleep again.
" Dr. Elliotson then read from a New York paper an account
of numerous Mesmero-Phrenological experiments, which re-
lated a vast number of public experiments of similar nature,
and with similar results. In each case, it is represented that the
organs, as named by the Phrenologists, invariably manifested,
under mesmeric influence, the functions attributed to them. The
relations excited the greatest surprise in the meeting, and were
listened to with deep attention. He then stated that whilst these
things were proceeding in America, experiments precisely of the
same character and effect were carried on in different parts of Eng-
land, by gentlemen who knew nothing of the operations of each
other, or of those going on in America. He had sent down copies
of the American papers to Hampshire to Dr. Engledue, with a re-
quest that he would hand them to Mr. Gardiner, a gentleman of
the highest respectability and learning, the son of Sir James Gar-
diner, an old member of this society. It happened, curiously
enough, that when Dr. Engledue went over to Southhampton, to
give the packet of papers (which he himself had not opened) to
Mr. Gardiner, he found that gentlemen, Mr. Mansfield and others,
actually engaged in a series of experiments, which, on afterwards
looking into the packet, they found to correspond exactly with
those described in the American papers. Dr. Elliotson then read from
the Hampshire Telegraph, a long account of experiments by Mr. Gar-
diner, from which we can only make room for the following :
—
" ' I asked the patient referred to, (a young lady ignorant of
Phrenology,) when in the trance, with what part of the brain she
kept a secret ? She replied, " on the side of my brain." Upon
asking her to point out the spot, she placed her finger exactly on
the organ of secretiveness in my head. I placed my finger on her
organ of secretiveness, when she said, " Yes, just where I am
touching my head." In the trance she fancies the two movements
are identical. Having asked her where she felt anger, she placed
280 PHRENO- MAGNETISM.
her finger upon my organ of destructiveness. I inquired—where
she felt hunger ; her finger rested on my organ of alimentiveness.
I interrogated her as to the time ; she was wholly unable to tell
me. The idea then struck me that I might possibly enable her to
estimate the hour by exciting the organ of time. With this view
I rubbed the forehead gently at the required spot, exerting my vo-
lition to the utmost, of course ;
" Oh ! that makes me fell so odd."
1 asked her why ? She replied, " It makes me know what time
it is." She then told me the time with almost, perfect accuracy.
She would afterwards always estimate the lapse of time—intervals
—with astonishing accuracy, upon my exciting the organ of time
on her forehead. Her finger rubbed on my forehead produced in-
variably the same results (this is true of all the organs).
" '
Upon my exciting her organ of tune in the same way. she said,
" That makes me feel so very cheerful—it makes me like to hear
some singing." 1 requested her to sing. She persisted in as-
serting her inability, until I energetically excited self-esteem,
when she said. " I'll try," and she forthwith hummed an air. When
her organ of color was excited, she exclaimed with animation,
" Oh, oh ! I see green, yellow, purple, &c, such beautiful colors."
If, when she was unable to distinguish an object clearly, I excited
individuality, she instantly perceived it distinctly. In the trance
she is never aware of her locality, until the proper organ is excited.
Upon one occasion, 1 excited constructiveness, when she expressed
a desire to make a cap model, which she executed upon being sup-
plied with materials. The organ called wit or mirthfulness being
excited, she very soon began to laugh involuntarily, although I
steadily maintained my gravity. I continued the operation, which
produced an increase in her mirth until she fell into a continuous
jit of laughter, exclaiming as well as she could, " I shall die of
laughing."
" ' Upon exciting her organ of destructiveness, her whole aspect
and tone gradually underwent the most marked change ; the
" milk of human kindness" gradually turned to gall and venom ;
she pouted, frowned, threatened, stormed, clenched her fist, and
finally became exasperated. Thinking I had gone far enough, I
breathed on the organ with a view to reduce its activity, and she
very soon became calm, losing every symptom of anger.
" ' The most beautiful results were elicited by exciting the organ
PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 281
of imitation. She commenced mimicking and imitating with ex-
traordinary and ludicrous accuracy several peculiarities of her
acquaintances and friends, not omitting my friend Mr. Mansfield
and myself in the act of magnetising. Suddenly, by the exercise
of my whole energy, I paralyzed the organ, and instantly her power
of imitation vanished. I re-excited the organ, when she im-
mediately repeated her wonderful mimicry to our intense gratifi-
cation.'
"
Not one of those who have adopted this doctrine concern-
ing the excitement of the Phreno-organs has yet retracted,
or even expressed a doubt concerning the truthfulness of
their conclusions. I do not know of a phrenologist in this
country who does not admit them to be true. I believe that
I am the first who has attempted to show their fallacy.
The following is a concise summary of the reasons why I
reject the doctrine :
—
1. When the subject is Claircoyant he knows the inten-
tion of the operator, or of any third person who instructs the
operator how to proceed, so that no contrivance can deceive
him, and, therefore, in Clairvoyant subjects, touching is a
mere farce.
2. When the subject is influenced by the will of the opera-
tor, this alone will explain all the phenomena, even though
the subject is not Clairvoyant. In this case, also, touching
the head is a mere farce.
3. When the subject knows or even suspects that the
touching of a certain spot is expected to produce certain re-
sults, he is generally desirous to oblige the operator, and
will act accordingly. In this case touching the head is also
a farce, for under these circumstances the same results can
be produced by touching anywhere else.
4. When neither Clairvoyance, Will, nor the subjectspre-
vious knowledge can be brought to bear, the result cannot be
produced.
5. When the subject, the operator and all concerned be-
13
282 PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
lieve in any peculiar notion, the experiments will not contra-
dict that notion, but will confirm it, however absurd it may be.
6. Subjects are often Clairvoyant enough to know the in-
tentions of others, when the operator does not suspect it,
and the operator often influences the subject when he does
not intend to do so.
7. Admitting that emanations of Etherium stream from the
extremities of the fingers—would they not be conducted away
in all directions by the innumerable nerves and blood-ves-
sels—the skull and membranes, which intervene between the
external spot touched, and the Phreno-organs which are sup-
posed to be excited? This objection acquires additional
force from the fact that the brain is especially isolated from
external influences.
8. The poles or sympathetic points which the touchers
pretend to find, afford a most conclusive argument against the
notion that touching proves the location of an organ, for it is
impossible to know whether you are touching a "pole" or
an organ. How do you know that there is not a "pole" of
Acquisitiveness in the integuments of the head just over Com-
bativeness? Mr. Sunderland says that there is a spot at the
top of the head, which, when touched, produces the most
exquisite pain. How does Mr. S. know that this is not
the pole of Sanativeness ?
9. The different touchers do not agree. Fowler finds an
organ of " Human Nature," where Buchanan finds none.
Sunderland finds nothing to contradict Gall and Spurzheim,
while Buchanan finds that " one third" of the organs are
located wrong by Gall and Spurzheim. Buchanan locates
Secretiveness and Acquisitiveness where Gall located
Combativeness. Sunderland locates them where Gall did.
Some of the organs discovered by Buchanan, are ridiculed
by Sunderland as absurd in themselves, and as contradicted
by the Touchological process. I pronounce the whole a
miserable farce, in which insanity and folly are the princi-
PH R E N O -M A GNE T I SM . 283
pal performers ; for, the subject is certainly insane, and the
operator who supposes that he is making great discoveries
qy such means, is exceedingly foolish.
10. A great parade and flourish of trumpets has been
made about the beautiful manner in which the different
traits of character have been manifested by subjects, when
the organs were excited by touching ; but all this amounts
to nothing, when it is known that the very same experi-
ments, the same results, with the same beauty of style and
manner are produced, by simply saying to the subject, " you
are Macbeth ;" or, " you are Queen Victoria;" or, " you
are a saw-mill." The subjects will generally assume the
character, and act the part according to their conceptions of
it, much more perfectly than they could enact the same
when in the ordinary state ; by this method you can make
them angry or merry, reverential or profane, at your
pleasure.
My attention has just been drawn to an account of some
experiments of Dr. Elliotson of London, a well-written ac-
count of which I find in the recently published work of Mr.
Lang of Edinburgh. Dr. Elliotson is one of the most dis-
tinguished physicians at present in Europe, and as far as
mere authority can give influence, his name will have
probably more weight on this subject than that of any
other man living. I do not understand that he admits any
new organs, or new phrenological doctrines as proved, or
even rendered probable by the experiments, but he seems
to succeed in exciting the very organs which he previously
believed in, and no others ; —this being the case, even his
experiments afford an unanswerable argument against the
pretensions of Buchanan, Sunderland, Hall, Fowler and
all the other discoverers of new organs. If the brain real-
ly could be excited in the way Dr. Elliotson supposes
that it can, it is no more than reasonable to suppose that
some new organs would be excited and discovered, and by
234 PHRENO- MAGNETISM.
no one more readily than him, since no man in Europe
understands phrenology better, or advocates it with more
courage and ability than he does. According to the follow-
ing account, it seems that when Dr. Elliotson accidentally
touched with his finger one half of the organ of Self-Esteem
(called Imperativeness in my nomenclature), that the
organ was instantly excited. Now, this being the case,
what is to prevent the function of any minute spot on the
head from being known ? And how can there be such an
irreconcilable difference between the results produced by
different operators ? Do not the very results which Dr.
Elliotson produced, indicate that his own mind is the origin
of them, and that they are the mere echo of his ideas ?
I have repeatedly seen subjects whose organs were so
easily excited by touching the head, that I could not touch
ever so slightly, without something going off; and yet, under
the pretence of curing or preventing headache, I have put
my fingers on every part of the head, without producing
any effect ; and I have no doubt such would be the case with
any of Dr. Elliotson's subjects. Why is this?
Mr. Lang says,
—
" At the meeting of the Phrenological association in 1842, Dr.
Elliotson seemed to think that the evidence fell short of proving
the truth of Mesmeric Phrenology ; but in a letter dated the 1st of
September, 1842, addressed to Dr. Engledue, and appended to that
gentleman's address, he states that his coviction of the possibility
of Mesmerizing distinct cerebral organs is complete. He then pro-
ceeds to give the following account of two of his patients :
—
" ' I have had for some months under my care, for dreadful fits
of many years standing, which are yielding satisfactorily to Mes-
merism, two charming youthful patients, of excellent cerebral de-
velopment, and carefully brought up, of high intelligence, and of
high moral character—beautifully illustrating the power of good
training upon a well developed brain. No poet or moralist could
desire finer specimens of all that is delightful in the youthful mind.
They have not known each other. They both exhibit exquisite
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 285
Mesmeric phenomena. Are thrown into a profound coma, which
no impression on the senses will dispel, and which soon hecomes
sleep-waking ; their limbs may then be stiffened at pleasure, and
endowed with enormous force, which, although not yielding to
mechanical violence, gives way to contact, or to the breath, or to
movements of the operator's hand, without contact, in the direction
opposite to that of the limb's position ; the various muscles of the
face may be made to twitch as if with electricity, and the eyes be
opened, or the body be drawn by movements of the fingers and
hands held at a short distance; the position of each finger of the
operator's hand will he minutely imitated, though the eyes be closed,
and the experiment be made out of the patients sphere of vision.
Though showing all the signs of sleep in the breathing, the falling
of the head, the aspect and the exquisite positions, they may be
roused to talk, but never to recognize the person nor the place.
Their dream, if so it may be called, is perfectly rational; but the
real place, and person addressing, and even the time, are invariably
fancied otherwise than is the fact.'"
It is perfectly obvious from this language that the subjects
were in such a condition that the intention of the operator
was known. How could they possibly imitate unless the
minds of the subjects were in perfect communication with
the mind of the operator ? He is quite sure that they could
not see, and yet could " minutely imitate," this is perfect
Clairvoyance. He proceeds,
—
<•'
I know to a certainty that both are totally ignorant of phre-
nology. Without any previous intention, I one day tried to mes-
merize some of the cerebral organs in the young lady. On placing
the point of a finger on the right organ of attachment, she strongly
squeezed my fingers of the other hand, placed in her right hand,
and fancied I was her favorite sister ; on removing it to the organ
of self-esteem, she let go my fingers which were in her right hand,
repelled my hand, mistook me for a person she disliked, and talked
in the haughtiest manner. On replacing the point of my finger on
attachment, she squeezed my fingers of the other hand again, and
spoke affectionately. I removed the point of my finger to de-
286 PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
structiveness, and she let go my fingers again, repelled my hand,
mistook me for some one she disliked, and fell into a passion.
The finger upon benevolence silenced her instantly ; and made her
amiable though not attached. I thus could alter her mood, and
her conception of my person at pleasure, and play upon her head
as upon a piano.
" On repeating these experiments, I soon found that the same re-
sults ensued, though not so rapidly, by merely pointing the finger
near the organs ; and this was the more satisfactory in demon-
strating the facts to others ; and indeed it has been quite satisfactory
to every one, for not only were the eyes closed, but stopped up by
a handful of handkerchiefs, held firmly upon each eye, and the ex-
periments were made on organs so situated, that had her eyes been
open, I defy her to know to what organ I was pointing. These
experiments I have repeated twenty times. But a fact, still more
wonderful, is this :
—the state of the organ of one side gives evi-
dence of itself on only half of the system."
Why is it wonderful that a subject who can perceive and
imitate fingers which are beyond the " sphere of vision,"
could know to what organ those fingers were pointing ?
And is it not reasonable to suppose that the effects upon
one half of the body originated in a suggestion of Dr.
Elliotson's own thought-teeming mind ? He says,
—
" For instance, if I place my fingers in her right hand, and mes-
merize Attachment in the right side, she squeezes them and mistakes
me for a dear friend ; if I then mesmerize self-esteem on the left
side, she still speaks to me kindly, and squeezes my fingers with
her right as much as ever. But if I place my fingers in her left
hand she repels them, and speaks scornfully to me, mistaking me
for some one whom she dislikes. If I take hold of both her hands
with one of mine, I can at pleasure make her repel both, by point-
ing over each organ of self-esteem or destructiveness ; squeeze
both by pointing over each organ of attachment ; or repel one and
squeeze the other, right or left, accordingly as I point over the
organ of self-esteem or destructiveness on the one side, and that of
attachment on the other, at the same time. These simultaneous,
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 287
and especially the opposite influences on the two sides are the
most astonishing and beautiful experiments that all physiology
affords ; and the sight of them enraptures every person. They are
the more satisfactory because there is no necessity for me to operate,
—any person, even a skeptic in both phrenology and mesmerism,
may point to and mesmerize her respective cerebral organs him-
self, if standing behind her. Under the opposite states of the two
sides of the brain, she will address the person supposed on the one
side or the other, and speak affectionately, proudly, or angrily, as
attachment on the one hand, or self-esteem or destructiveness on
the other, is mesmerized. The expression, the tone, to say nothing
of the words or the action of her hands, are exquisitely and rapidly
in character. In the youth, the organs at present can be excited by
contact only of the point of the finger, or by breathing over them.
Attachment, self-esteem, destructiveness, music and color, I have
excited in him, and the effects came very slowly and continued
long.
" It is very interesting to see the first degree, and the working
up of the feelings. When self-esteem begins slowly they think
others are proud, and then become haughty themselves; when de-
structiveness begins slowly, they think others wish to quarrel,
and then they quarrel—or they begin to find fault with the fancied
person, who is beloved in the waking state, and then mistake him
for one disliked in the waking state."
If she could see to imitate the operator so well, any
other person's finger would not be much more difficult to
perceive than those of the operator. I very lately had a
subject in Manchester, N. H., a gentleman whose name I
have forgotten, but who is the principal of an academy in
that place—this gentleman, when apparently awake, was so
far under the influence of my mind, that by nrv volition—by
my merely thinking of his ear being burnt, he acted as if it
was actually burnt. I could do the same to his finger or any
part I willed. If I stood behind him, and put my finger
near his ear, or neck, or his hands (they being held behind
him), he immediately shrunk and said that it hurt, yet I
288 PH RENO-MAGNETISM.
did not touch him, but merely pointed within six inches of
the flesh. He did not pretend that he could see what I was
doing, but said that he experienced a sensation in the part,
without knowing the cause : the same happened if any one
else pointed. I also lately found a similar subject in
Cooperstown, Otsego county, N. Y., named Bates. Mr.
Braid, of Manchester, Eng., seems to have noticed similar
cases, and he attempts to account for them by supposing
that the ordinary function of "feeling is abnormally exalted."
It is certain that sometimes the senses are abnormally exalted
in the subjects to a wonderful degree, and this exaltation is
generally the incipient stage of Clairvoyance . When the
currents of Etherium in a galvanic battery become exceed-
ingly intense in consequence of an additional number of
plates being brought to bear upon one wire, or avenue, it will
always overcome ordinary isolation, and spurning its former
bounds, overleaping its constitutional limits, it tends to enter
into communication with other bodies—to induct them—to
make impressions upon them—and, by their re-action, to re-
ceive impressions in return. If the intensity is increased
still more, the parallel wr
ires or avenues are inducted, and
their currents neutralized, or conformed in such a wr
ay that
they become vicarious in their function—that is, they per-
form an office and convey a current, which, of right, belongs
only to the avenue which has exceeded its limits.
From this analogy it is easy to understand abnormal sen-
sation and Clairvoyance, for this also is produced by bring-
ing an additional number of cerebral plates to bear upon the
same avenue or nerve of the subject, and when the currents
of both operator and subject take the same direction through
the same nerve, there is of course greater intensity, and when
there is greater intensity there is a tendency to pass the iso-
lating bounds. Hence we have uncommon manifestations
of muscular strength, which are, in fact, but modes in which
the currents of Etherium are escaping. Hence, also, we
P II RENO- MAGNETISM. 289
have abnormal manifestations of sensation or Clairvoyance
—
which are but the re-aciions that follow the intensity in the
nerves of motion—which re-action is aided by the induction
of currents from the operator, and from other surrounding
bodies—and let us remember that action and re-action are
equal. Hence, again, we have vicarious function—that is,
we have the nerves or avenues of one kind of sensation
transposed so as to become the avenues of other kinds of sen-
sation ; we have the nerves of touch changed to nerves of
sight or to nerves of smell; we have instances of subjects
who could smell with the fingers and see with the toes. If
any one finds it difficult to conceive the possibility of this, let
me remind him that the different sensations are but different
motions of the same Etherium ; and that nothing is necessary
to produce this apparent miracle but to change the motion
which is passing through one nerve so as to make it like the
motion which is passing through another nerve ;
—the motion
through the nerves of touch like that through the nerves of
sight. Hence, too, we have utter insensibility and paralysis
produced by the currents of the operator counteracting, neu-
tralizing:, reversing and conformins; the currents to and from
the brain of the subject. Again,
—
" A gentleman, who, through the kind invitation of Dr. Elliot-
son, was enabled to witness some experiments, has given the fol-
lowing account of what fell under his observation :
—
"'At the hour appointed, there assembled in Dr. Elliotson's
drawing-room a party whom it would be exceedingly difficult to
match, for intelligence and beauty, out of the metropolis ; for be-
sides that portion of the sterner sex to whom such an exhibition
might be supposed to have its attractions, there were present
" stores of ladies, whose bright eyes rained influence ;" and it argues
much for the interest which this subject creates amongst all classes,
that a dissertation upon it should have the effect of drawing to-
gether however small a portion of the female aristocracy of Eng-
land, who have, at this season, so many powerful objects of at-
13*
290 P II RENO- MAGNETISM.
traction of a more congenial nature ; and it argues still more for
the worth and intellect of the fair ones of the British Court, that
they should endeavor, by a personal inspection, to satisfy themselves
of the reality of that condition, which, when once established, bids
fair to open up to us new views of the natural history of mankind.
" ' The first patient introduced was a young girl, who has been
operated upon hitherto in spite of herself. She had all along been
inclined to treat the subject with ridicule, and, after having been
prevailed upon to submit, has since formed one of the best illustra-
tions of its reality.
" ' It took a considerable time to effect the transformation in
this instance, in consequence of her extreme state of excitement.
The change was at last effected, and, by dint of continued and
repeated trials, she was prevailed on to speak. Dr. Elliotson
stood beside her chair, and sustained a conversation with her for a
considerable period, while another gentleman stood behind her
chair, and pointed at (not touched) the various phrenological de-
velopments. The changes in her looks, temper and replies were
very apparent, and such as to satisfy any one, since it was im-
possible that she could form the slightest idea of the effects intend-
ed to be produced, even admitting that these results where pro-
duced by trickery, which they evidently were not.
" '
The chair on which she reclined was wheeled into a corner,
and she was left to awaken at her leisure. The attitudes into
which she threw herself while in the course of awakening were
very beautiful, and might have afforded models to the painter or
sculptor, When awoke, she shook hands with, and described her
sensations to, several of the ladies present.
" '
The next case was that of an elderly female, who, it was
stated, had been cured by Baron Dupotet of epilepsy, of many
years' standing. It is now several years since the cure was effect-
ed, and no return of the complaint has yet occurred. The holding
of Dr. Elliotson's fingers to her eyes was attended with an imme-
diate convulsive movement all over the system ; in a very few
seconds she fell back in a state of intense rigidity, which could be
removed by breathing upon any particular limb. In whatever
position, however, the limb was placed, it almost instantly as-
sumed the rigid state, exactly resembling the sudden setting of
stucco in a mould. Several of the ladies went forward to examine
PHRENO-MAONETISM. 291
for themselves, and each expressed their opinion, that it would be
impossible for the most expert impostor to imitate such a condition.
The pointing to the various organs was now tried, and was at-
tended with even more striking manifestations than in the former
case. In short, whoever could believe that these results were the
effects of imposture, must have been possessed of even a greater
amount of credulity than others who humbly believed what they
saw, and trusted to time and patient investigation for an elucida-
tion of the mystery.
" ' The position which Dr. Elliotson holds as a man of science,
places him far above being benefitted by any mere casual notice of
his labors ; and it is indeed gratifying to reflect, that although the
illiberal and bigoted of his own profession have attempted to im-
pair his means of usefulness, there arc many others who, while
they have been benefitted by him, have had the gratitude to ac-
knowledge his services.'
"Dr. Elliotson, and others, who believe in both Mesmerism and
Phrenology, maintain that the manifestations are so many proofs
of the truth of Phrenology ; while Mr. Colquhoun, who rejects
Phrenology, accounts for them by the supposition that they are
produced by the will of the operator ; that the latter, in putting his
hand upon a particular organ, naturally looks for a certain result,
and that it is produced accordingly, through the community of feel-
ing existing between him and the patient. In his letter appended
to Dr. Engledue's address already referred to, Dr. Elliotson says,
in reference to the question here started,
—
" '
If it should be urged, that these experiments prove nothing
for phrenology, because the excitement of certain ideas in the brain
of the patient resulted from the mere will of the operator, and not
from his manipulations over particular cerebral organs, the answer
is easy. The will of the operator certainly must be influential in
producing Mesmeric sleep, if it is true that patients may be Mes-
merized to sleep when the Mesmerizer is far away from them
;
and I presume it is. But this can be only one source of power. I
have made experiments in Mesmerism daily, except the two months
when I travel in every year, for five years, carefully, with no
other desire than that of truth, and in the utmost variety of cases,
and have never once discovered the influence of my will. I have
292 PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
never produced any effect by merely willing. I have never seen
reason to believe (and I have made innumerable comparative experi-
mentsupon the point) that I have heightened the effect of my processes
by exerting the strongest will, or lessened them by thinking inten-
tionally of other things, and endeavoring to bestow no more atten-
tion upon what I was about than was just necessary to carry on
the process.'
"
I do not understand that Dr. Elliotson means to deny that
the will of the operator does sometimes produce movements
in the subject, but only that he has not himself observed it,
yet the subject's minute imitation of his fingers can only be
referred to his own will moving his own fingers, and thus by
sympathy indirectly moving the fingers of the subject. I
confess that I have myself found the effects wr
hich I have
produced were not in proportion to my conscious efforts. I
have found that by my will I could produce certain effects
;
but I have not found those effects increased by increasing the
energy of my efforts, though I have found them increase by
the continuity of the efforts, and by repetitions of them at
different times. But it is easy to convince any one that his
will does produce certain effects which are independent of
the imagination of the subject. I have satisfied hundreds in
the following manner, which I will take the liberty to re-
commend to the attention of Dr. Elliotson : Take almost
any person who is unacquainted with the subject, or with
the object of the experiment—ask him to sit down and close
his eyes and keep them closed—take hold of his hands as if
you are going to induct him in the usual manner, and, after
you have held them about five or ten minutes, let go carefully
of one hand ; and will the thumb to move ; and in five cases out
of six it will do so, even though the subject is not in the
least asleep, and though he is so slightly affected that he
stoutly denies that he is affected at all. I have generally
found, indeed, in this experiment, that, if there are not wit-
nesses present, the subject is apt to attribute the whole to
PH RENO-MAGNETISM. 293
accident or fancy, because he feels nothing and experiences
no novel sensations.
I succeeded perfectly in performing this experiment a
few days ago upon the Hon. Judge Baker, of the Washing-
ton Common Pleas. This case is peculiar. I could slightly
move any finger by my will, when his eyes were closed,
and he was unconscious of the operation. I performed the
same afterwards when he was aware of it, and what is still
more curious, I could cause the muscles on the back of his
hand to move and quiver by my mere will or volition,
though he could not produce the same movement with his
volition. Judge Howe and Mr. Attorney Baily were pre-
sent and witnessed the operation.
In Cooperstown, Mr. Bates, when quite awake, in the
presence of several citizens—if he closed his eyes and I stood
behind him and told him that I was going to will one of his
feet or hands to move, without telling him which it was to
be, and requested him to remain merely passive—the ex-
periment succeeded to the satisfaction of all present. When
I merely wanted to satisfy myself—I willed, and he moved
accordingly—but when I wished to satisfy others, I stood be-
hind Bates and made a sign to let them know which limb I
intended to move. The Dr. says,
—
" So far from willing, I have at first had no idea of what would
be the effect of my processes,—one set of phenomena have come
unexpectedly in one case, and one in another, without my being
able to explain the diversity of effect : nay, the same process, con-
ducted with the same object, turns out to produce opposite results in
different cases. For instance, 1 can powerfully excite the individual
cerebral organs in the young gentleman by breathing over them ;
but when I breathe over those of the young lady, desiring and ex-
pecting the same effects, no excitement is produced ; on the con-
trary, if they are already excited, they at once become inactive.
The same effect requires different processes in different persons
;
point to the epigastrium of some persons, and will with all your
294 p HR ENO- MAGNET ISM.
might, and nojesult comes, but point to their eyes, and they drop
asleep ; make passes, or point at the back of the head, and will
with all your might, and either no effect will ensue, or sleep will
not take place before far longer time has elapsed than if you oper-
ate before the face ;
you may make passes in vain with all your
might before the face of some persons, who drop senseless pre-
sently if you merely point ; and hence is apparent the error of those
who gratuitously assert, that the processes merely heighten the will
of the operator. As to the influence of the operator's will in ex-
citing the cerebral organs, the effect ensues as well in my female
patient, though the manipulator be a skeptic, and may therefore be
presumed not to wash the proper result to ensue, and though I
stand aside and do not know what organ he has in view : I have
never excited them by the mere will : I have excited them with
my fingers just as wT
ell when thinking of other matters with my
friends, and momentarily forgetting what I was about : 1 have
always failed, however much I willed, when I have directed the
finger to another organ than that which I willed to excite inten-
tionally, or have accidentally misdirected my finger."
The true explanation of these cases, and of many similar
puzzling phenomena is in my opinion to be found in the
caprice and Credencive imagination of the subjects. I have
found that where a subject gets any unfounded notion into
his head, either from the suggestion of any one else, from
his own reasoning, or from the practice of the operator,
this notion will have the effect to prevent the success of
every experiment which does not accord with it. This is
the reason why different processes succeed with different
subjects. There is a love of forms and ceremonies in
superstitious minds, (and the best subjects are generally
predisposed to superstition,) a disposition to connect effects
with certain peculiar mysterious processes, so that I think
it important in performing experiments, not to neglect any
ceremony or movement which is calculated to produce an
effect upon the Credenciveness and Submissiveness of the
subject. This is especially important when the object is to
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 295
improve the health of the subject, and I commend it to
the serious consideration of physicians as a valuable auxili-
ary to their forces medicatrix. Again,
—
" 1 was taken quite by surprise when I found that I Mesmerized
an organ, self-esteem, for instance, in the half only to which my
ringer happened to be pointed."
After subjects have learned that touching or pointing at
a certain part is to be followed by certain movements ; that
is, as soon as they have learned to know the sign, and to
interpret it, they will always afterwards act in accordance
with their " first lessons," a subject therefore who by sym-
pathy and by Clairvoyance has learned what the sign is, and
what it means, does not afterwards need to know any thing,
but that the sign is made ; and I have already shown that
subjects such as this which Dr. Eiliotson has, can tell when
a finger is held or pointed near them. What I mean is, that
they use Clairvoyance to learn the intention of the operator
the first time the experiment succeeds, (provided that they
previously did not know any thing of Phrenology,) and
afterwards they know by an exaltation of the senses, when
and where the finger is pointing at them, after the manner
of my subject at Manchester, N. H., and Bates at Coopers-
town. How would Dr. Eiliotson himself explain it ?
Would he say that his fingers and the fingers of any person
evolve a stimulus which excites Phreno-organs against the
will of the operator ? He has left us no other alternative,
and we know that this is not true, since we can put our
fingers upon the heads of any of these subjects to cure their
head-ache, and under other pretences without exciting their
organs at all until we excite their suspicions.
" We are unable," says Mr. Lang, " to agree entirely either with
Mr. Colquhoun or Dr. Eiliotson. The will of the operator we
conceive to be totally insufficient to account for the varied manifes-
tations of Phreno-Mesmerism, The individual placing his hand
296 PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
upon the organs may be an utter skeptic in phrenology, or he may
be ignorant of their position, and therefore not aware of the effect
about to be produced, and yet the manifeslation may be correctly
produced. On the other hand, we think Dr. Elliotson mistaken in
placing so little reliance on the power of the operator's will. That
his own experience is faithfully related, there cannot be a doubt,
but it has been different with many others.
" We have seen many curious results flow from the mentally ex-
pressed wish of the operator, some of which have been recorded
in the cases in this volume. In that of Catherine M , on
one occasion when her brother had excited the organ of love of ap-
probation, she began to decorate her person, took down her hair,
and commenced to comb it. The manifestation stopped the instant
the finger was removed. We quietly requested him, without again
going near the patient, to proceed to a distant part of the room,
and there to wish that the manifestation should be resumed. On
his doing so, she commenced at the part she broke off, went on with
the duties of the toilet, and did not stop until he again came near
her. He was then requested , also in such a manner that the pa-
tient could not be aware of what was about to be done, to put his
fingers upon Conscientiousness, but firmly to will the manifesta-
tion of Acquisitiveness. It appeared to some present, that there
was a conflict going on for a time in the mind of the patient, but
the practical result of the experiment was, that she picked her
brother's pockets. He then ceased to wish, keeping his fingers
still unmoved upon Conscientiousness, when she threw away the
the articles of which she had possessed herself, and exhibited strong
marks of shame at having been detected in an improper act. We
do not bring forward these facts for the purpose of disproving the
organology of phrenology, but merely to show that the will of the
operator—his wish unexpressed in ordinary language—has a pow-
erful effect upon the minds of certain patients.
" Again, patients have been led into erroneous manifestations,
through conversations carried on by those around them. Thus,
an operator and patient, alike ignorant of phrenology, being se-
lected for the purpose of testing the truth of that science, results
such as the following were induced : A gentleman present under-
took to guide the operator, and stating aloud that he intended that
Veneration should be touched, directed the hand of the operator to
PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 297
the organ of Acquisitiveness. The manifestation was that of Ven-
eration. In the same manner, the patient picked pockets on Ven-
eration being touched, and the manifestation was invariably that
talked of by the gentleman who directed, and not that of the organ
which the operator touched. We have seen patients who danced
whenever a particular part of the leg was touched ; discovered
smells, upon the hand of the operator being applied to the nose ;
and spectators might almost have been led to fancy that there were
organs in every corner of the face. In these cases, we should sup-
pose that there must have been some sort of previous teaching,
and that the patient, associating the idea of a particular manifesta-
tion with being touched in a particular spot, thus came to repeat
it. We must recollect, that the memory of sleep-wakers is much
more acute than in their ordinary state, and that the most trifling
occurrence is recalled by them with the greatest accuracy.
"These hints are thrown out principally for the purpose of induc-
ing caution. In the hands of some operators, organs are multiply-
ing at a wonderfully rapid rate, such as it is difficult to follow ;
and inquirers would do well to proceed with the utmost care in the
investigation, We neither admit nor reject Mesmerism as a proof
of the truth of phrenology. We certainly incline to the opinion
that the connection between the two doctrines will ultimately be
established ; but, meanwhile, we should like to see the question
submitted to the test of further careful experiment."
Mr. Lang, like a shrewd Scotchman, as he is, seems to
be a little suspicious that all is not right, though he lacks
the courage and decision to attack and overturn the error.
His remark in regard to the memory of sleep-wakers,
(an
awkward term for subjects whose external senses are in-
ducted) is just and important. There are many instances
of subjects recollecting, when the brain is in an intense ex-
citement, what they had forgotten for many years ; and in
some well attested cases even recollecting every word of
wT
hat they had heard read but once, and that in another
language many years before—a language too with which
they were not acquainted either then or afterwards. If
298 PHRENO- MAGNETISM.
such statements are to be believed, how much dependence
are we to place upon the general assertion that the subject
knows nothing of phrenology, and yet is " an intelligent"
person. What intelligent person has not seen busts and
phrenological works and pictures, &c, when the works of
Spurzheim and Combe, like the blessed light of heaven,
illuminate every palace, mansion and cottage throughout*
the country. Though they may know comparatively little
about it now, they once did know, and may recall the im-
pression in some instances, and cause it, like a false light—an
ignis fatuus, to lead the confident experimentalist astray.
Mr. James Braid, of Manchester, Eng., has published a
work during the last year entitled Neurypnology, or Hyp-
notism, or the rationale of nervous sleep considered in rela-
tion to Animal Magnetism. There is nothing novel in the
principles advanced by this gentleman, nor in the facts which
he brings forward in support of them ; but he has a singular
way of viewing the subject, and has attracted attention by
professing to have made a discovery by which he can put a
majority of persons to sleep in a few minutes, by causing
them to look upwardly and inwardly in such a way as to
tire the eye and the mind. His discovery, however, amounts
to nothing, that I can perceive, more than we knew before.
He labors throughout his work with the zeal of a young con-
vert, but he also betrays the inexperience of a neophyte.
Yet there is an evident candor and honesty in his style which
wins our good opinion, and besides, he has interwoven much
interesting matter into his treatise. He rejects the idea of
a fluid or Etherium of any kind being the agent by which
the phenomena are produced ; but at the same time candidly
admits that he is puzzled to account for them. He has never
had an opportunity to witness any cases of Clairvoyance
which were of so extreme and decided a character as to
satisfy him that it is more than an abnormal exaltation of
the senses, it is therefore plain that his observations have
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 299
been quite limited. Some of his experiments seem to puz-
zle him exceedingly, which are easily explained by the prin-
ciple of Credencive induction ; a principle, in truth, which
explains many of the most mysterious of the cases which
Etheropathy presents. On page 4, he says :
—
" There were certain phenomena, which I could readily induce
by particular manipulations, whilst I candidly confessed myself
unable to explain the modus operandi by which they were induced.
I referred particularly to the extraordinary rapidity with which
dormant functions, and a state of cataleptiform rigidity, may be
changed to the extreme opposite condition, by a simple waft of
wind, either from the lips, a pair of bellows, or by any other
mechanical means. I solicited information on these points, both
privately and publicly, from all the eminently scientific gentlemen
who honored me with their company during the ^meetings of the
British Association in this town ; but no one ventured to express
a decided opinion as to the causes of these remarkable phenomena.
1 now beg to assure every reader of this treatise, that I shall
esteem it a great favor to be enlightened on points which I confess
are, at present, still above my comprehension."
This experiment is well calculated at first view to excite
surprise ; but when it is known that not only a " simple
waft of wind" but a simple ceremony of any other kind,
such as whistling, or snapping of the fingers, or any thing
else, will produce the same effect, we shall begin to look to
that power of the mind which believes in and submits to
ceremonies and processes, in full confidence that they are
potent in themselves. In this particular case, I take it that
Credenciveness was the agent which produced the rigidity,
and which so readily changed it to a natural condition. Mr.
Braid himself says, in his preface, that the fact that some
patients operated upon themselves " and produced results
precisely the same as when done by any one else, seems
the most decisive proof possible that the whole results from
the mind and body of the patient's acting and re-acting on
300 PHRENO- MAGNETISM.
each other, and that it has no dependence on any special in-
fluence emanating from another." Now this is the same
conclusion to which many others have arrived, from an im-
perfect view of the subject ; but none of these have attempt-
ed to explain the modus operandi in which it is possible that
the mind or the imagination produces the effects. I believe
that I am the first to attempt to give an explanation, and on
this ground I claim some indulgence. I think that I have
shown that those gentlemen are mistaken who attribute all
the effects produced to the imagination of the subject, and
on the other hand I have explained how it is that the mind
of the subject is capable of producing those phenomena
which have hitherto seemed so very mysterious. He says :
" I have also had the state of the patient tested before, during
and after being hypnotized [mesmerized], to ascertain if there was
any alteration in the magnetic or electric condition, but although
tested by excellent instruments, and with great care, no appreciable
difference could be detected Patients have been hypnotized whilst
positively, and also whilst negatively, electrified, without any ap-
preciable difference in the phenomena ; so that they appear to be
excited independently of electric or magnetic change. I have also
repeatedly made two patients hypnotize each other, at the same
time, by personal contact. How could this be reconciled with the
theory of a special influence transmitted being the cause of the
phenomena, plus and minus being equally efficient ?"
Many seem to stumble over this difficulty. They think
that because in applying common electricity, or magnetism,
they can perceive no effect from it, either one way or the
other, therefore, there can be no " special influence trans-
mitted." But this reasoning is not in harmony with the
well known facts in Etherology. Light and heat are, by
modern philosophers, considered as the motions of the
same substance ; both are referred toa" special influence
transmitted ;" yet, a room warms when light or dark, and
it is lighted when cold or warm, " without any appreciable
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 301
difference" in the phenomena. So, also, magnetic elec-
tricity operates through glass, without any apparent diminu-
tion of power ; but electricity which is evolved by the
friction of a common electric machine, will not produce
any effect whatever through glass, nor shellac, nor resin ;
yet, there is no doubt, in the minds of our most eminent
chemists, that the electric machine and the magnet both
depend upon modifications of the same " special influence
transmitted."
A common bar magnet will attract iron and produce all
its phenomena, " whilst positively, and also whilst nega-
tively, electrified, without any appreciable difference," but
it by no means follows that they are independent of any
electric or magnetic change.
As for the fact which seems to puzzle Mr. Braid, that
u two patients" induct, or " hypnotize each other at the
same time, by personal contact," it is explained by credencive
induction. The truth is, personal contact is not necessary
in such cases ; nothing is necessary but signs, ceremo-
nies and assertions, by which to excite the conforming
socials, especially Credenciveness.
The argument against the agency of Etherium in
Etheropathy, drawn from these difficulties of Mr. Braid
and others, amount to nothing, unless they apply it equally
to refute the idea of a fluid in magnetic or electric pheno-
mena. Let them explain, if they can, why a magnet can
be made of no metal but iron or cobalt, and yet that electro-
magnetism can be produced by the combination of acid
with any metal ? If a fluid draws a piece of iron, why
should it have no effect upon silver ?
At page 37, Mr. Braid says :
—
Ci
The supposed power of seeing with other parts of the body
than the eyes, I consider is a misnomer, so far as I have yet per-
sonally witnessed. It is quite certain, however, that some patients
can tell the shape of what is held at an inch and a half from the
302 PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
skin, on the back of the neck, crown of the head, arm, or hand, or
other parts of the body, but it is from feeling they do so ; the ex-
tremely exalted sensibility of the skin enabling them to discern the
shape of the object so presented, from its tendency to emit or ab-
sorb caloric. This, however, is not sight, but feeling.
" In like manner I have satisfied myself and others, that patients
are drawn, or induced to obey the motions of the operator, not
from any peculiar inherent magnetic power in him, but from their
exalted state of feeling enabling them to discern the currents of air,
which they advance to, or retire from, according to their direction.
This I clearly proved to be the case to-day, and that a patient
could feel and obey the motion of a glass funnel passed through
the air at a distance of fifteen feet."
This gentleman tells us something here which is quite
as difficult to conceive and to admit as anything in Clair-
voyance : —that a person can perceive the shape of a thing
by the back of the neck, without contact, merely by the
feeling ot warmth or coldness. And when the distance is
fifteen feet, finding that the variation of temperature
will not be a plausible theory, he adopts another, which is,
that it is the perception of the touch of the air ! ! Really,
his skepticism is of a most credulous kind—to avoid Scylla,
he betakes himself to Charybdis. He proceeds,
—
" To remove all sources of fallacy as to the extent of influence
exercised by the patient herself, independently of any personal or
mental influence on my part, whilst I was otherwise engaged, my
daughter requested the patient to go into a room by herself, and,
when alone, try whether she could hypnotize herself. In a short
time I was told the patient was found fast asleep in my drawing-
room. I went to her, bandaged her eyes, and then, with the glass
funnel, (which I used to avoid the chance of electric or magnetic
influence being passed from my person to that of the patient,) ele-
vated, or drew up her arms, and then her whole body. I now re-
tired fifteen feet from her, and found every time I drew the funnel
towards me, she approached nearer, but when it was forced sharply
from me, she invariably retired ; and if it was moved laterally, she
moved to the right or left accordingly."
PHRENO- MAGNETISM. 303
In this country, I can assure Mr. Braid, that every
chemical tyro, and almost every schoolboy, knows that
magnetism will pass through a glass funnel just as well as
through a steel runnel ; although electricity will not pass
through glass, magnetism will.
Page 65, Mr. Braid says :
—
" There is another most remarkable circumstance, that whilst
the patient is in the state of torpor and rigidity, we may pass
powerful shocks of the' galvanic battery through the arms, so as
to cause violent contortions of them, without his evincing the
slightest symptom of perceiving the shocks, either by movement
of the head or neck, or expression of the countenance. On partial-
ly arousing the head and neck, as by gentle pressure on the eyes,
or passing a current of air against the face, the same shocks will
be felt, as evinced by the movements of the head and neck, the
contortions of the face, and the whine, moan, or scream of the
patient. All this may happen, as I have witnessed innumerable
times, and the patient be altogether unconscious of it when roused
from the hypnotic condition."
All this is no more remarkable than that pinching, cut-
ting, or burning will not be felt by a subject in the same
condition. As for his " current of air" to rouse the sub-
ject, any other ceremony will do as well. To prove that
currents of air are without effect, unless through the Cre-
denciveness of the subject, I have only to say that I have
put them into this condition when the wind was blowing
freely upon them, and it made no difference. I have many
subjects who, when perfectly awake, if I tell them that an
electric shock will have no effect upon them unless they
whistle or sing, such will be the case ; and, on the other
hand, if I tell them that a grindstone or a coffee-mill is an
electric machine, and will give them severe shocks when
they touch it, they will be shocked accordingly, and seem
to . experience the same sensations as if it was really an
electric machine. Will Mr. Braid try this ?
SECTION XV.
COMMUNION WITH SPIRITS.
The belief of many very honest persons, in the commun-
ion of subjects with the spirits of the departed dead, is un-
doubtedly a delusion into which they have been led by their
own credulity, and the peculiar condition and superstition
of the subjects. When a subject is under Etheropathic in-
fluence to a certain extent, he can be easily made to believe
that he sees or hears the supernatural inhabitants of heaven
or hell. He can be inspired, and generally is, with the no-
tions of the operator, especially if he is Clairvoyant enough
to perceive the state of the operator's mind. Under these
circumstances, if the subject is questioned, he will some-
times surprise, delight, or horrify the operator, by merely
echoing back to him his own superstitions. I am acquainted
with a most respectable gentleman who was a Universalist,
but became converted to a belief in the existence of perdi-
tion, by a subject who described to him the exact appear-
ance of his mother, and several other dear relatives who
were dead, and who had never in life been seen by the sub-
ject. It did not occur to the credulous gentleman that his
own mind was like a mirror to the mind of the subject, and
that his own thoughts reflected the images of his departed
friends. But he really supposed that by Clairvoyance the
subject actually looked into the eternal world, and from its
countless myriads selected his relatives and described them
COMMUNION OF SPIRITS. 305
with perfect accuracy. He therefore proceeded to question
the subject as to what his mother said, and whether she had
any communication to make to him. He was informed by
the subject, in reply, that his mother was in heaven, and
was desirous to warn her son of his errors, and to assure
him of his imminent danger of falling into eternal perdition.
Overwhelmed with awe, and terrified with these solemn
revelations, he sunk on his knees, and in an agony of con-
viction surrendered his former faith, and from that day to
this has acted consistently with the resolves of reformation
which he then made.
There is at this moment a large number of very respecta-
ble persons in this State, who sincerely believe in the
reality of communion with spirits by means of Etheropathy ;
to ridicule it will only make their belief stronger by excit-
ing the principle of stubborn opposition ; but I think they
will become convinced of their error when they find that
subjects can be made to believe or to see any thing which
whim or caprice may suggest, provided they have not been
previously committed for or against it. Many persons have
become convinced of the existence of supernatural spirits
from the evidence afforded by mesmerism who were previ-
ously skeptical, and on the other hand many have become
convinced of the reality of mesmerism from the supposition
that it proved the existence of spirits, and was therefore
favorable to religious belief. The truth, however, is that
mesmerism or Etheropathy sheds no light whatever on this
subject. It leaves it where it finds it.
Emanuel Swedenborg was undoubtedly one of the great-
est men that ever lived ; and possessed the extraordinary
power of exercising Clairvoyance whenever he pleased. He
was literally a " Seer." I suspect that he obtained some
of his wonderful scientific knowledge of nature by the exer-
cise of this power ; but his supposed communion with spirits
and many of his other peculiar ideas probably originated in
his own Credencive fancy. It was perfectly natural for one
14
306 COMMUNION OF SPIRITS.
who had been educated in the popular belief concerning
supernatural beings, to imagine, when he found himself pos-
sessed of Clairvoyant perception, that he was indebted to
these beings for his peculiar advantages over his fellow-
men. If he was a good and virtuous man like the Baron
Swedenborg, he would imagine that his inspirations pro-
ceeded from good and happy spirits, who condescended to
sympathize with him. But if he was conscious of his own
moral depravity, he would be likely to clothe the spirits,
—
whom his creative fancy called u from the vasty deep" of
superstition—with characters like his own. He would con-
ceive them to be selfish, malignant and revengeful like him-
self.
I have little doubt that the ancient witches, spoken of in
the Bible, were persons who ignorantly made use of induc-
tion and Clairvoyance for wicked and malicious purposes,
and this is the reason of ^the command, " Thou shalt not suffer
a witch to lice." It is also evident that the witches them-
selves attributed their success to their alliance with infernal
beings. Some of the Salem witches confessed that they had
been aided by the devil, and admitted the justice of the sen-
tence of death which followed the confession. These poor
witches were unquestionably insane in mind and peculiarly
diseased in body, while the whole surrounding community
considered them as willful rebels against God and allies of
the Prince of darkness.
Some modern fortune-tellers have been supposed to be
in league with Satan, on account not only of their successful
impostures, but from their actual performances and revela-
tions. Some have the power when looking into a particu-
lar stone or piece of semi-transparent glass to perceive in a
Clairvoyant manner, which is well calculated to excite
astonishment in a superstitious and ignorant mind, some
again have a faculty of talking to sores, felons and burns, in
such a way as to " take the soreness out," they actually
COMMUNION OF SPIRITS. 307
perform this apparent miracle whenever the patient is in
any degree susceptible to Etheropathic induction, but
not otherwise. It is my opinion that there are peculiar
kinds of susceptibility which have not yet been noticed
by scientific men, and which will explain many strange
things that now are deemed as mere idle dreams or strik-
ing coincidences. I suspect that some persons are Clair-
voyant when asleep and dreaming who are not so when
awake, and that therefore in their dreams they perceive
things which seem like communications from spirits of
another world, warning them of the death, or sickness, or
treachery of friends, or of any thing else which concerns
them : this would account for the truthfulness of some re-
markable dreams.
I also suspect that some persons are Clairvoyant in a
peculiar and singular manner and at certain times, while at
other times and in other modes they are not so. I know a
lady who is not conskL "^d susceptible, and yet she has re-
peatedly foretold the coming of friends at a certain hour,
and declared in the most positive manner that she felt cer-
tain (she knew not why) that they would arrive at a
certain time, although letters had just been received stating
that they would not come under several weeks ;
yet she was
right, and they actually arrived at the time she predicted.
Once she arose in the morning and told a friend to his
astonishment what he had been thinking about. It was a.
subject upon which he had never uttered a word, and it
was impossible for any one to conjecture that such a thing
occupied his mind. This same lady frequently has an im-
pression concerning the character or designs of her acquain-
tances which is perfectly correct, but which can only be
accounted for by a kind of peculiar and imperfect Clair-
voyance.
The impressions which some persons have had that
they were to die at a certain time, may also be sometimes
308 COMMUNION OF SPIRITS.
derived from a species of Clairvoyant or abnormal percep-
tion, producing what is called a presentiment. This
subject is full of interest, and well deserves the attention
of scientific and inquiring minds, but I cannot pursue it
further at present.
SECTION XVI.
ABUSES OF ETHEROPATHY.
The abuses of Etheropathy have been few as yet, but I
feel bound to warn the unwary of the dangers to which they
may be exposed.
I have had many subjects, who, when to all appearance
perfectly awake, would believe that a piece of blank paper
was a bank note of any denomination which I asserted it to
be. At Saratoga Spa, in the presence of Judge Marvin and
many other gentlemen, I made a young man of excellent
character take worthless waste paper for bank notes, and
give me a written obligation for a large amount of money
which he supposed he had received. Suppose him to be the
cashier of a bank—would not this be a dangerous power in
the hands of a dishonest man ? Or suppose him to be worth
a large amount of property in real estate—he might be made
to transfer it by deed in the presence of witnesses, while
he was under this influence, and the witnesses not suspect
that he was in a state different from usual. The witnesses
would go into court and swear that he seemed perfectly ra-
tional and master of himself, and yet he would be in such a
condition that he could not perceive anything to be different
from what it was asserted to be by the operator. Black
would look white, if the operator declared it to be so. Cop-
per would look and feel and sound like gold, if the operator
affirmed it. In a word, the subject and all his property
and other legal rights would be at the mercy of the operator.
310 ABUSES OF
He could be made to sign anything—a deed, or marriage
contract—a confession of murder, or anything else.
Others can judge as well as I how far this power will in
future be abused ; but I perform my duty in giving a warn-
ing to susceptible subjects. Let them not lightly disregard
it. They should know that when once thoroughly inducted
by one person they can easily be inducted by any person
who is permitted to attempt it. They should know that they
may be made to perform very improper actions without
being aware of it, and without afterwards recollecting it.
They should know that they may be made to commit actions
which in the eye of the law are criminal, without really in-
tending to do any wrong whatever. A woman may be made
to believe that the operator is her father, or brother, or sis-
ter, or husband, andshe will act accordingly ; and afterwards
she will have no recollection excepting such as the operator
pleases. It is my opinion, founded upon experiment, that
one person in twenty is susceptible of this peculiar influence.
It may be said, that this is dangerous knowledge and had
better not be communicated publicly. I confess that it would
be safer if it could be confined to the medical profession ;
but this is impossible. It will necessarily be known to a
sufficient number to render the knowledge dangerous. No-
thing can prevent unprincipled and dishonest persons from
gradually learning to avail themselves of this power to the
injury of the unsuspecting. The only remedy is to let the
public know at once the real nature of the power which the
operator wills, and then every one will be upon his guard.
In some European countries laws have been enacted for-
bidding any person to practice Etheropathy, excepting re-
gular medical professors or physicians, and I would respect-
fully recommend some such enactment in this country, to
protect the innocent from the consequences of their own ig-
norance and the arts of accomplished knaves.
I would also suggest the propriety of a law rendering any
ETHEROPATHY. 311
contract voidable which is made by an operator with a sub-
ject, except when sanctioned by a physician in the presence
of a magistrate.
IMMORAL INDUCTION.
There is another abuse of Etheropathy to which I deem
it my duty to allude. I refer to the influence of immoral
associates upon susceptible persons. I have in several in-
stances seen persons whose organization indicated honesty,
sobriety and virtue, but who wr
ere notwithstanding reputed
to be the very reverse. These persons were highly suscep-
tible to Etheropathic influence, and having fallen into vicious
society were unfortunately inducted and vitiated so as to
conform to the will of their vicious companions. It is true
that neither the subject nor the companions intended to pro-
duce this result, nor even suspected the nature of the agent
which was active between them ;
perhaps neither of them
ever heard of mesmerism, nor Etheropathy, nor animal
magnetism, yet they unconsciously employed it, and the sub-
ject was innocently inducted and seduced by its agency. I
would therefore advise those who are aware of their suscep-
tibility or that of their friends, especially the young, to avoid
the society of those whose examples or conversation are of
an immoral character. Vice and virtue are capable of being
imbibed with wonderful facility by persons susceptible of
etherean induction, and this fact being known may be of
infinite service to some who would otherwise be ruined.
Some observations which I have made incline me to the
opinion that many persons are susceptible to abnormal in-
duction of a peculiar kind, which has not hitherto been sus-
pected to exist—an induction which is gradual and insidious,
and the process of which is complicated. I would denomi-
nate it gradual social induction.
Many persons acquire the habits of their associates with
a degree of facility which cannot be accounted for by their
phreno-organic developments, the organs of Imitativeness
312 ABUSES OF
and Approbativeness, &c, being below medium, yet on trial
they are not readily inducted in the ordinary manner, and
are therefore not supposed to be susceptible persons. The
fact is, that they are susceptible to gradual and continued in-
duction, but not to sudden induction. They become inducted
by long continuance in the society of persons of superior
energy, and if they are young, a bias is thus given to their
characters which becomes incorporated into their constitu-
tions, never to be effaced. A thousand reflections naturally
arise in the mind of any one, who feels an interest in the
cause of education and of good morals, from the above con-
siderations. We are more than ever impressed with the
importance of selecting proper teachers and companions for
the young, and of securing them from improper influences.
Local Induction.
I suspect that there is in some localities a greater tenden-
cy to susceptibility than in others, and I have endeavored,
though without much success, to ascertain the local causes
of susceptibility. I have found blacksmiths, iron-workers
and printers, more susceptible as a class than soldiers
and farmers. Is it because those who work among metals
become, in some degree, inducted by them ? I found that
of thirty U. S. officers at West Point not one was susceptible.
Is it on account of their habits of self-control, and of control-
ling others ? their manly exercises ? their skeptical, mathe-
matical, unimaginative education ? or is it all these causes
combined ? I have often found persons susceptible in a high
degree, who had injured their constitutions by habits of in-
temperance. Why is this so ? On this point, as well as
many others in Etherology, we need statistical information,
derived from long continued and extended observations care-
fully.made and recorded by a Society of Ethereans.
Was not the Salem witchcraft caused in some measure by
the food, or the state of the atmosphere ? Was it not an
ETHEROPA.THY. 313
endemic disease ? May not local causes, or diet, or occupa-
tion, or medicine, have an important agency in producing
susceptibility by weakening the isolation ? May not cer-
tain kinds of medicine be discovered which may produce
susceptibility' ? May not some diseases (especially those
of the mind) have their origin in Etheropathic susceptibility
and induction produced spontaneously, and may they not be
cured by the same means ? These things deserve investi-
14*
SECTION XVII
RULES FOR EXPERIMENTS.
CREDE]NCIVE EXPERIMENTS.
1. Tell the subject that you intend to operate upon him,
and get his consent to it.
2. Tell him that you are actually operating on him
3. Perform some ceremonies which he supposes are
essential to the success of the operation.
4. Be serious, firm and kind, and assume a manner which
prevents trifling, either on the part of the subject, or the
persons who may be present.
5. If the subject has any reluctance to submit to the
operation, excuse him at once ; do not persuade him as if it
is to do you a favor. Say but little to him except what is
useful to the success of the operation.
6. If the subject has a guardian, you had better not
operate unless the guardian or loco parentis requests it, and
during the operation, if any friends are alarmed, or begin to
dictate, it is better to restore the subject and decline to
operate upon him more ; but while you do operate, allow of
no superior. A commanding imperativeness and firmness
is as important in the operator, as conformity is in the
subject. The operator should for the time be perfectly
" master of his subject" and of every one else who is present,
so far as to require order, and a conformity to regulations ;
but the operator should in no case lose his temper or mani-
fest any irritability ; his motto should be " mildly but firmly."
EXPERIMENTS. 315
7. Let the subject sit down in a common chair without
resting his head. Let him incline his head slightly forward,
close his eyes, and keep them gently closed. Let him not
speak, nor move unless it is necessary to his comfort. Let
him not cross his legs, as it will interrupt the circulation.
S. Sit down before him and take hold of his hands in any
way you please, provided it conveys to the subject the im-
pression that you are making an effort to affect him, and that
your taking hold is a useful part of the operation.
9. You may sit thus before some persons an hour, with-
out perceiving any effect whatever, and afterwards succeed ;
but, as a general rule, more than fifteen minutes is a waste of
time. The first symptoms which subjects exhibit, are
various, and often depend upon their fancy, their previous
knowledge or reading, or what they have heard is the first
effect. But there are some symptoms which are evidently
involuntary—one is a slight tremor, which sometimes,
though rarely, is increased to convulsive twitchings. If the
convulsions become alarming, the operator should never
lose his coolness and self-command under any circumstances,
but rouse the subject and restore him. I have never had
but two such cases, and both were caused by previous
nervous disease. Another common and favorable symptom
is the breaking out of perspiration, which is of course in-
voluntary. Another symptom is that when the operator
places his hands upon the top of the head and passes them
down to the shoulders, the subject breathes louder every
time you do so. In some cases none of these symptoms
are exhibited, and yet the subject is perfectly inducted in
five minutes.
10. When you wish to ascertain whether you have suc-
ceeded in inducting the subject, press your fore-finger on the
forehead where it joins the nose, or press one finger on one
eye-brow and another finger on the other brow, and, in a
low voice, say to the subject, " you cannot open your eyes"
316 RULES FOR
and if he is sufficiently affected, he cannot open them ; he is
not asleep, and, perhaps, he had no idea till this moment
that he was in any degree affected. Now tell him to open
his eyes and to put his hands together ; lay your finger
across them and say," you cannot get your hands apart," and
he cannot ; or, perhaps, he can with a great effort. Now tell
him to extend his arm, and when he has done so, tell him
that he cannot put it down, and he cannot. If he is well
inducted, you may tell him that he cannot step, or speak,
or see, or hear, or taste, and he cannot do it. Tell him that
water is rum, or ink, or hot, or cold. Tell him that black is
white, that he cannot lift a feather, or a penny, and it will
seem so to him. Tell him that a cent is gold, or silver, and
he will receive it as such, and give you the change. Tell
him that he is a negro, a female, a dog, a fish, a post, a
steam-engine—that his head is a coffee-mill—that he is
Richard, Hamlet, Jackson, Clay, or what you please, and
he is transformed instantly and verily believes your asser-
tion to be true. Tell him that he can walk until he gets
to such a line, but cannot pass over it, and he cannot.
11. If any other person besides the operator makes the
assertion, it has no effect ; but if the operator says to the sub-
ject—" such a person has influence over you," then the person
or persons mentioned can influence the subject in the same
manner.
12. There is considerable difference in subjects in respect
to how far the delusion can be carried—some cannot open
their eyes, or step, or move any muscle, yet they cannot be
deceived concerning colors, or their own identity ; some can
only be deluded in one way, and some can in all ways,
13. The influence will pass off from some subjects within
five minutes and cannot be regained, but in most cases it con-
tinues several hours and in many cases several days. I have
made them stop in the street, a week after induction, by a
single word.
EXPERIMENTS. 317
14. A large majority of those persons who have ever
been inducted or mesmerized in the usual way, can be made
to perform these experiments when perfectly awake, and
when no one would suppose from their appearance that they
were in any degree affected or under any peculiar influence.
Five minutes are enough to induct them sufficiently for this
purpose.
15. Any person acquainted with Etheropathy, can feign
and imitate all these experiments, so that no sagacity can
detect it. The reality of the whole matter can be proved
only by the testimony of the subject himself. If he is am-
bitious to enjoy the character of an impostor, he may be
gratified by first becoming a liar. When the subject says
that he cannot open his eyes, and pledges his honor to the
truth of his assertion, the only way is to assume that you
believe him. If you doubt him, it is better not to tell him
nor any one else of your doubts : you may do him injustice.
Let every one present judge for himself. The operator
should never say that he knows that the subject is not de-
ceiving, he should only answer for himself—for his own
integrity. He may say, if he thinks proper, what he knows
about the character of the subject for truth and honesty ; but
he cannot truly say that the subject is not deceiving, and he
should not risk his own reputation by doing so.
16. The advantage in performing Credencive experi-
ments, is, that they are successful upon about one person in
twelve or twenty throughout any community ; so that it is
easy for any persevering man to convince the community,
where he happens to be, of the truth of Etheropathy by the
testimony of their own citizens. Sometimes it will happen
that the first persons attempted are found susceptible, and
again fifty may be tried in vain. I find that about five in
every six are slightly affected, so that I can perceive it my-
self, but not more than one in twelve or twenty will manifest
the Credencive experiments perfectly.
318 RULES FOR
17. If a whole audience consents to be tried, the operator
has only to say to them, that if there is any one among them
who is susceptible he will be affected while the operator is
lecturing, or doing something else—and every one in the
room who is both susceptible and rather Credencive will be
affected accordingly. The success of this experiment de-
pends upon the character of the audience and the tact of the
operator. It is better to say, that those who are willing to
be inducted may occupy certain reserved seats—this will
prevent the rest from becoming alarmed and leaving the
room.
18. The success of Credencive experiments is greatly re-
tarded by the presence and hostile conduct of skeptics, and
of proud, imperious and contemptuous persons, or any per-
sons who do not conceal their incredulity.
EXPERIMENTS IN SOMNAMBULISM.
19. If the subject seems to be in a high degree suscepti-
ble, so as to be inclined to go to sleep, let him alone awhile,
and then ask him if he is asleep ; if he says that he is
asleep, then he is so ; but if not, ask him if he is going to
sleep ; if he says yes, then tell him to go to sleep^ and wait
a while longer, then ask him the questions again as before,
until he says he is asleep.
20. When the subject is asleep, ask him concerning his
health and the health of yourself, and your peculiar feel-
ings. Pinch your own hand, and see if he shrinks as if it
were his own hand. Taste of something, and ask him what
he tastes. Move your features and limbs, and see if he
does the same. Ask him who else is in the room, or who
is in the next room. If he cannot answer any of these
questions in a satisfactory manner, he is not in a Clairvoyant
nor sympathetic state.
21. Tell the subject to open his eyes without waking,
and they will generally do so. If the subject is skillful in
EXPERIMENTS. 319
any thing in his ordinary state, he will be much more so
now. He will sing, or paint, or dance, or declaim better
than ever and with less embarrassment ; but he is apt to
become sleepy. I have found that such- performances are
best when the subject is awake, but under Credencive in-
fluence.
22. When you restore the subject, look him in the eye,
and tell him not to have any head-ache, nor tremor, nor
sickness, nor rheumatism, nor melancholy, &c, and he
generally will not, as long as the influence remains in any
degree.
EXPERIMENTS UPON DISEASED PERSONS
23. If the person to be operated upon is affected with
some disease, and the object is to effect a cure, you should
begin by making yourself acquainted with the history and
symptoms of the case, and, if convenient, consult with a
physician, before proceeding to induct him.
24. Get rid, if possible, of all curious and inquisitive per-
sons, and those who have never seen experiments. It is
better still, if you can have the room exclusively for the
use of yourself and your patient.
25. Whatever effect you wish to produce, tell the patient
that it will probably be produced, if he is in a proper state
of susceptibility and of conformity. Tell him not to trouble
his mind by trying to be affected, but to merely keep his
mind upon the probability that he will.
26. After having tried fifteen minutes, if you find you
have produced no apparent effect, tell the subject that you
have affected him in some degree, and that by repeating the
operation several times, his debility will be relieved. For
it is undoubtedly true, that a healthy person always benefits
a debilitated one.
27. If you find that you have a Credencive control over
the patient, assert that his disease is cured, or that it is
320 RULES FOR
relieved, as the case may require. If his disease is local,
make local passes and applications, and assert that they
will certainly be efficacious, and they generally -will be so.
28. If the subject is much inducted and under perfect
control, no other medicine is necessary ; though the medicine
may be taken if the physician insists upon it, and the oper-
ator can generally modify its effects at his pleasure.
29. If the patient is but little affected and the influence
acquired is but slight, then medicines must be used as usual
;
but the medicines may be inducted in the presence of the
subject, and he himself may be inducted also and told that
the medicines will have a favorable effect, and they will
actually have a much more beneficial effect than if no such
ceremonies were performed.
30. Electricity may be applied to a slightly inducted
subject and have much more effect upon him, to cure him,
than if he is not inducted.
31. A Magneto-Electric contrivance is now in use, in
which a current of Electricity is interrupted for an instant,
and then continued, and then interrupted again, in such a
way as to cause a rapid succession of slight shocks to be
produced in any part of the head or body desired. This
method of using Electricity was first introduced in Germa-
ny. In this country, I believe, the present most approved
machines were first manufactured and are still made and sold
by Benjamin Pike, Jr., 294 Broadway, N. Y. The ma-
chines used by Dr. Sherwood are in imitation of Mr. Pike's.
Dr. Sherwood professes to mesmerize with his machine, but
this is probably an error into which the Dr. has been led by
effects which were produced by Credencive induction.
32. Electricity is often useful in those cases where the
nerves have ceased to perform their function with proper
vigor, and I would advise its use when mesmeric induction
fails to produce sufficient effect. It may be used in addition
EXPERIMENTS. 321
to the mesmeric induction, and thus render essential ser-
vice in the hands of a skillful person.
33. If a subject is Clairvoyant, and in that state gives ad-
vice and prescribes medicine, I would recommend you to
apply to a physician and get his consent before following
the direction of the Clairvoyant.
34. It is my opinion (though I advance it with diffidence)
that Homeopathy produces its cures by the aid of Creden-
cive induction ; for it is certain that if a subject is in a very
slight degree inducted, it requires much less medicine to
produce a given effect than when he is in the normal con-
dition.
SECTION XVIII.
INDUCTION OF BRUTE ANIMALS.
It is seldom, if ever, that brute animals can be inducted
so as to present the phenomena of Etheropathy. One
reason why they are not as susceptible as man, is, that they
are deficient in Credenciveness ; and this is doubtless also
one reason why infants and idiots are rarely as suscepti-
ble as other persons. We perceive here the necessity of
making a broad distinction between Credencive induction
and external induction. Animals, infants and idiots cannot
be affected by their own Credencive imaginations, as those .
of superior intellect often are. Whenever, therefore, they
are actually affected, it must be by forces actually evolved
from the operator.
There are so many traditions and anecdotes relating to the
charming power of serpents, that it scarcely seems fair to
get rid of them by resorting to a skeptical denial of the
authenticity of the statements, especially when they are
found to harmonize so perfectly with analogous facts in the
history of man. Some suppose that the existence of the
power ascribed to animals, of charming birds, toads, &c,
is perfectly disproved, because, when serpents have been
confined in cages, they could never be made to charm the
birds which were placed near them for the very purpose.
But it should be remembered, that among men few try to
exert this power, and few persons among those tried are
found sufficiently susceptible to manifest that perfect con-
formity to the will of the operator, which it is said birds
BRUTE ANIMALS. 3.23
sometimes exhibit when spell-bound by the fascination of
the serpent.
It is even supposed by many, that serpents have the
power to charm human beings ; and I can readily admit,
that if it is true that one animal is capable of exerting this
influence over another animal, he might also exert it over
a human being, more especially if the person influenced
actually believed in the power of the serpent.
Gen. Morris has embodied the spirit, both of tradition
and philosophy, on this subject, in a song which he has
introduced into his " Maid of Saxony."
" When I behold that lowering brow,
Which indicates the mind within,
I marvel much that woman's vow
A man like that could ever win.
Yet, it is said, in rustic bower
—
The fable 1 have often heard
—
A serpent has mysterious power
To captivate a timid bird.
" This moral then I sadly trace,
That love's a fluttering thing of air
;
And yonder stands the viper base
Who would my timid bird ensnare.
'Twas in the shade of Eden's bower
This fascination had its birth,
And even there possessed the power
To lure the paragon of earth."
Another reason, it may be presumed, why brutes are not
more susceptible, is, that the isolation is more perfect in
them. Isolation is a principle of all organized beings,
vegetable and animal, without which they could not main-
tain their independent existence and identity ; and, like
every other principle which is common to all organized
beings, it is found in greater perfection the lower we
descend in the scale.
324 INDUCTION OF
I have never tried but one experiment of this kind which
is worth mentioning and that was upon a cat. I found that
when I put my finger within an inch of her ear, she felt it
although I was certain she could not see it, and she made a
motion of the ear as if I had touched it. It occurred to me
that this might be common electricity, with which these
creatures are generally so much charged. I also noticed
some very slight movements of the muscles as I passed my
fingers over her limbs without touching them, her eyes be-
ing closed at the time. It is really worth some trouble to
ascertain whether brute animals can be decidedly affected ;
I am free to confess that I am not at present satisfied on this
point. Mr. Lang has given us some extracts from a work
published in 1839, by|Dr. Wilson, physician to the Middle-
sex Hospital, Eng., by which it appears that he has tried
experiments with a wonderful patience and perseverance
upon various animals. The account is given with much
simplicity and apparent honesty, but it strikes me as ex-
ceedingly ludicrous. It is not easy to realize that he is
perfectly serious in his statements ; and when we are satis-
fied that he is quite in earnest, it is equally difficult to avoid
a suspicion that he has allowed himself to be misled by his
extraordinary enthusiasm. His experiments are, however,
quite as rational, if not more so, than those of Dr. Buchanan,
or Mr. Sunderland, or Mr. Spencer T. Hall. Mr. Lang
introduces the extracts from the work of Dr. Philips with
approbation. He says,
—
" The Rev. Mr. Townsend, Mr. Braid and other writers, allude
in general terms to the fact of Mesmerism having been tried on
the brute creation.
" Dr. Elliotson is reported to have stated at a meeting of the
London Phrenological Society, that the Duke of Marlborough had
informed him that while at the Marquis of Ely's seat in Ireland,
and strolling out in the morning, he came upon a very ferocious
dog, chained in a farm-yard. The Duke durst not approach, but
BRUTE ANIMALS. 325
standing at a respectable distance Mesmerized him, and going up,
actually embraced the sleeping animal.
" Mr. Borrow, in his fascinating work, ' The Bible in Spain,' re-
lates that he averted in an analogous manner the attack of a large
dog which flew at him.
" The only regular series of experiments on brutes, of which,
so far as we are aware, any account has been given to the world,
were those performed by Dr. Wilson, physician to the Middlesex
Hospital. As Dr. Wilson's work* is but ltttle known among
general readers, we trust it is unnecessary to make any apology
for drawing pretty largely upon its pages. Dr. Wilson states,
that having applied Mesmerism with the most beneficial effects
upon several of his patients, he nevertheless felt himself restrained
from proceeding further, and was induced by various considera-
tions to institute some experiments, with the view of ascertaining
what effects could be produced by it upon the brute creation. He
goes on to say :
—
" My first experiments on animals were made on cats, but as
they were more or less connected with the cases of my patients
which I have not entered upon here, I may briefly notice that
many experiments were made on four cats and kittens, at intervals,
from the 16th I\ lay to the 3d October, 1838, and each of them
was put to sleep at the first trial ; and ultimately I was able to put
first one and then another to sleep, and at the end to leave three
sleeping together, being as many as could ordinarily be brought
together at once.
" ' One of these, a torn, the first of them that was magnetised, and
on which that operation had been most frequently repeated, be-
came easily and strongly influenced by them, so that he has been
pulled about, lifted up by the nape of the neck, and the ears tick-
led with a pen, during which he would remain motionless, and the
cat was then said to be in a state of catalepsy ; sometimes when
lifted up by the head or tail, the eyes might partially open without
the limbs moving, and when dropped down, the eyes again closed,
and he continued to sleep, without making any effort to move
from the place where he had been dropped.
* Trials of Animal Magnetism on the Brute Creation. By John
Wilson-, Physician to the Middlesex Hospital. London : Sherwood,
Gilbert and Piper: 1639.
326 INDUCTION OF
" ' My other experiments at the following places were not carried
to the same extent, as I was generally satisfied to cease the opera-
tions as soon as sleep came on.
'
" Dr. Wilson's work is in the form of a journal, from which we
proceed to extract as follows :
—
" 'September 26, 1838.—White Will, a torn cat, age about a year.
Kitty, a female ca,t, tortoise-shell, eight months. Fuzzy, a female
cat, French, two months. Vick, a female terrier, six months.
" ' Made the passes on Kitty and Fuzzy, on my lap, both for the
first time, and both were put to sleep in about a quarter of an hour.
" ' September 28. —Magnetised Fuzzy and Vick on the hearth-rug.
Both were put to sleep in five minutes, and both slept an hour and
a half; being the first trial on Vick and the second on Fuzzy.
Afterwards White Will was magnetised on the rug ; in about ten
minutes or more he was put to sleep, and Vick coming in the way
and annoying White Will, 1 directed the passes towards her at the
same time that I was acting on White Will, and again, after be-
coming very irritable, and biting the fender, she was put to sleep.
Both awoke on some one coming into the room.
" The same morning I made passes on a drake and three ducks.
They wT
ere difficult of approach at first, but they soon became
quiet, and allowed themselves to be acted on in a mass, with my
hands quite close to their heads ; at other times they became very
restless, struggled, and bit each other's necks, and tried to escape,
as it were, from the passes; the wings of all, but those of the
drake in particular, made convulsive twitchings as the hand moved
over them. One or two became apparently drowsy, eyes half closed,
and sat down two or three times. One or two yawned at different
times. The time occupied was about half an hour, when 1 was
obliged to go away.
" '
About a month after the last passes were made one of the
ducks died ; and a fortnight after that the drake died. The cause
of their deaths was not known. They did not die suddenly, but
were said to have pined away gradually.
" * October 19.—Had a dozen fish, (roach, dace, gudgeons and
loach,) from one to three ounces in weight, caught in the Thames
this morning. Passes being made on them when in a large tub of
water, they soon came to the top of the water, put their noses out,
and allowed me to touch their heads, stroke them down the backs,
BRUTE ANIMALS. 327
and pop their heads under the water, when they came to the top
again immediately, and, instead of seeming afraid of the motion of
my hand, they appeared more desirous of getting near to it than
avoiding it.
" < October 29.—Put a Bantam cock with a Bantam hen under the
cage, near to a she-goat, eighteen months old, when William and
I both made passes together, and separately, for more than half an
hour before the goat was put to sleep, and then only slightly. The
cock at first chuckled, and made much noise ; then he became
quiet, and remained so ; sometimes sat down and closed his eyes ;
but towards the end he stood upright for a considerable time like a
statue, and neither moved head nor foot ; and when the cage was
taken away, he moved not in the least, allowed me to touch and
pull his comb and gills, and to stroke him down without making
the least movement of his feet, head, or neck. As night was com-
ing on, he was brought in, and placed before the kitchen fire,
where there were dogs near to him, and the same teasing means
were repeated with like results, when he began to evince sensation
and motion by degrees, and finally aroused up, and clawed my
hands. The hen was somewhat similarly affected, but in a much
less marked manner. It will be observed that it was about their
roosting time.
" ' October 28.—At twelve o'clock, made passes at a distance on
a wild, fierce, Chinese gander and a common goose, and they grad-
ually allowed me to approach them though they were at large iu
the farm-yard ; and when the gander let me come up to him to
make the passes close along his head and neck, his neck quivered
obedient to the passes, which quiverings I stopped and renewed at
pleasure. I could touch and stroke his head and neck as I wished :
he remained a quarter of an hour erect, with his head raised in the
air, and never, during that time, once moved a foot. He frequently
gaped during the whole time, as well as the goose ; and, when he
seemed most susceptible, kept continually uttering a sort of plain-
tive noise as the passes were made.
" ' The goose made no noise. At last 1 directed the passes from
the head of the gander to the head of the goose, and then the goose's
neck quivered : it lay down several times, held its head down, and
put it under some wood, while I continued the passes down its neck.
328 INDUCTION OF
I did not notice its eyes being closed. The gander never lay-
down.'
" The following experiments were made at a third station The
notes, at the time of trying to affect two pigs of a large breed, were
drawn up, Dr. Wilson states, by a spectator :
—
" « July 21,1838.—The pigs were about nine months old, healthy,
fat and very lively. The sty in which they were confined con-
sisted of two parts—a small oblong court uncovered, and an inner
sty roofed, and partly boarded in front. They were magnetised
across the outer court into the inclosed sty, at the door of which
they presented their heads ; about half an hour after, they began
to sweat about the ears and neck, and to utter a peculiar shrill
plaintive squeak. After being operated upon for about an hour,
one of them lay down ; and the other, though standing, suffered
the operator to enter the inner sty, and magnetise them quite close,
without their being disturbed.'
" The following experiments were made in the Zoological Gar-
dens, Surrey, on two Ceylon elephants, male and female, Rajah and
Hadgee, each about ten years old, and both kept together in the
same stall.
" ' March 13, 1839.—Began the passes along the head and trunk
(proboscis) of the female elephant, Hadgee, as she stood ; in about
five minutes she curved her trunk, previous to raising her head, to
strike me with the trunk ; which the keeper noticing, warned me
of what she was preparing to do, so that afterwards I kept at a
distance where she could not hit me with her trunk, though several
times she attempted to do so, by raising her head and lashing out
her trunk at the same time. Twice she turned her back on me,
but I continued the passes. Once she struck her hind-leg out to-
wards me ; she also yawned several times : the striking her trunk
out, with the design of hitting a stranger, was unusual with her.
Time of operation, a quarter of an hour, when, strangers coming
in, it was discontinued.
" ' Then I went to see the other wild beasts fed, but found that
they had already begun feeding. As I stopped before a lioness,
lying down tearing a half devoured joint, which she held between
her paws, and growling at me, I began making passes towards her
head ; she very soon, almost immediately, ceased eating, grasped
the joint between her jaws, and ceased growling ; her eyes began
BRUTE ANIMALS. 329
to twinkle, and soon closed at times, for short intervals ; when
some strangers came up, and asked me how it was that I seemed
to affect the lioness. I gave them an evasive reply, in hopes of
their going away, and ceased the passes, but held my hands out a
little towards her, as she continued in the same position ; hut her
eyes were much less closed than when I made the passes. After
these visitors went, I renewed the passes ; when other visitors
came, and again I ceased, and held my hands out steadily before
me ; she then got up and walked about, and then lay down again.
As the company remained standing there, I ceased all trials and
retired, as the lioness began to tear the joint, after having retained
it full twenty minutes in her mouth, without once relaxing hold of
it.'
" After giving the details of several experiments. Dr. Wilson
concludes
—
" c
No further trials were made on the elephants and other wild
beasts, from my unwillingness to carry the experiments beyond a
certain point ; for I had no means of judging what the consequences
might be, should such animals as the elephants, and other beasts?
after repetitions of Magnetism, get into the irritable stage, or should
they, after being put to sleep, pass into the state of somnambulism
or delirium.'
"
15
APPENDIX
EXPRESSIONS OF OPINION.
Union College, October 23, 1844.
Prof. J. Stanley Grimes :
Dear Sir—At the conclusion of your lectures, just delivered
before a portion of the students of this Institution, a meeting o
the class was duly organized, and the following resolutions were
adopted, as expressive of their sentiments in reference to your
lectures.
Resolved, That we have listened with deep interest and the
highest satisfaction, to the series of lectures on the Philosophy of
Mesmerism, just delivered before us by Mr. Grimes, and that we
unanimously concur in tendering to him this testimony of our
approbation and respect.
Resolved, That the experiments delivered before us, have with-
out exception been of such a character—the subjects being our
fellow, students and classmates, known to us to be men of intelli-
gence, firmness, and Christian integrity—as to forbid a doubt of the
facts, and leave us not the slightest ground for skepticism.
Resolved, That so far as we are competent to judge, the theory
of Mesmerism, as presented by Mr. Grimes, is not only novel and
excitingly interesting, but in perfect accordance with admitted
principles of science.
Resolved, That should Mr. Grimes, as we understand it is his
332 APPENDIX.
intention to do, publish to the world his views upon this subject,
we believe they will meet with that favor from the public, and
from men of science in particular, which, in our judgment at least,
their present novely demands.
Resolved, That wherever Mr. Grimes may go, we would respect-
fully solicit for him a candid hearing from an enlightened public,
feeling assured that their experience will accord with our own,
and prejudice give place to conviction, and skepticism to confirmed
belief.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be presented to Mr.
Grimes, to be used according to his discretion.
A. NEVVKIRK LITTLEJOHN, Chairman.
Report on the Phrenological Classification of J. Stanley Grimes.
By E. N. Horsford, Professor of Natural History and Mathema-
tics in the Albany Female Academy. Adopted by the Albany Phre-
nological Society, September 3, 1840.
" The committee to whom was referred the letter of Mr. Grimes,
requesting an examination of his classification, as exhibited in his
" New System of Phrenology," and a comparison of it with the
classification of Dr. Spurzheim, beg leave to submit the following
Report :
—
" The importance of arranging the principles of a science in ac-
cordance with the laws of natural relationship, has been recognized
from the days of the earliest philosophers to the present time. It
has been acknowledged in astronomy, geology, and the other
branches of natural science. The productions of the great men in
these several departments of investigation are the monuments of a
desire to improve and perfect classification. A like feeling has
been manifested by writers upon the powers of the mind. Suc-
ceeding generations, enlightened by discoveries, and quickened
thereby to the perception of defects in previous systems, attempted
improvements ; and the whole history of mental philosophy, from
Pythagoras to the commencement of the last century, is but little
more than the record of changes in nomenclature and arrangement
of the attributes of mind.
" The actual discovery of twenty-six of the fundamental facul-
APPENDIX. 333
ties of the mind, and the organs ihrough which they manifested
themselves, was the first great step towards a proper classification.
But the life of Dr. Gall was too short for the labor of founding and
perfecting a science. Although he speaks ofpropensities, mechanical
aptitudes, intellectual dispositions, and moral qualities ; yet, besides
the record of his invaluable discoveries, he has left us little more
than a simple arrangement of the powers. In this he seems to have
been guided merely by the relative position of the organs, commen-
cing at the base, and proceeding regularly to the top. Accordingly,
Amativeness is placed first, and Firmness last ; while Cautiousness
and Educabiiity (Individuality and Eventuality of Spurzheim,) are
associated together. Dr. Gall maintained that all the faculties
have the same modes of action ; and that a separation of them into
two orders, founded upon their different modes of action, could not
be made. Dr. Spurzheim, however, guided by the accumulated
opinions of philosophers who had gone before him, was enabled to
recognize two distinct classes of powers ; and the two orders of
Affective and Intellectual Facultifs proposed by him, have
received the sanction of the greater portion of the phrenological
world. Dr. Spurzheim maintained that perception, memory, and
imagination, are attributes of the Intellect, and that the affective
faculties have sensation alone. These views were rejected by
Gall. Dr. Spurzheim divided the Affective Faculties into Propen-
sities, or those internal impulses which invite to certain actions,
and Sentiments, which, besides inviting to certain actions, are
attended when active by a peculiar emotion.
The Intellectual Faculties he subdivided into four genera : the
external senses ; the faculties which perceive existence and physi-
cal qualities ; those which perceive the relations of external ob-
jects ; and the reflecting faculties. The following is Dr. Spurz-
heim's classification, as drawn out in Mr. Combe's last work.
ORDER I. — FEELINGS.
GENUS I. PHOr-ENSITIES.
1. Amativeness, 6. Destructiveness,
2. Philoprogenitiveness, *
Alimentiveness,
3. Concentrativeness, or In- t Love of Life,
habitiveness, 7. Secretiveness,
4. Adhesiveness, 8. Acquisitiveness,
5. Combativeness. 9. Constructiveness.
334 APPENDIX.
GENUS II. —SENTIMENTS.
I. Sentiments common to man with lower animals.
10. Self-esteem, 12. Cautiousness,
11. Approbativeness,
11. Sentiments proper to man.
13. Benevolence, 18. Wonder,
14. Veneration, 19. Ideality,
15. Firmness, 20. Miithfulness,
16. Conscientiousness, 21. Imitation.
17 Hope,
ORDER II.—INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
GENUS I. EXTERNAL SENSES.
Feeling, or Touch, Hearing,
Taste, Sight.
Smell,
GENUS II. INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES,
Which perceive existence and physical qualities.
22. Individuality, • 25. Weight,
23. Form, 26. Coloring.
24. Size,
GENUS III. INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES,
JVJiich perceive relations of external objects.
27. Locality, 31. Time,
28. Number, 32. Tune,
29. Order, 33. Language.
30. Eventuality,
GENUS IV. REFLECTING FACULTIES.
34. Comparison, 35. Causality.
In expressiug an opinion upon the merits of this classification,
the committee feel deeply the responsibility of their situation. The
work of a profoundly analytical mind is before them ; and with
scarcely an alteration, it has received the sanction of the most dis-
tinguished advocates of the science, in Britain, France and America.
It is the standard classification ; it is one of the many monuments
of a distinguished genius, and we are bound to revere it. The
committee are also aware, that the ultimate functions of all the
powers are not yet established, and that there is still a broad field
APPENDIX. 335
for discovery. Nevertheless, the following quotations from Spurz-
heim and Combe, show not only their own consciousness of im-
perfections in this classification, but appear to point out to us the
path we should pursue. ' If,' says Spurzheim, ' under any head
of the nomenclature, there be a better name than I employ, * *
* * I shall be glad to use it ; for I am always disposed to ac-
knowledge truth, and obey real improvement.' ' It appears im-
possible,' says Mr. Combe, ' to arrive at a correct classification
until all the organs, and also the primitive faculty or ultimate
function of each, shall be definitely ascertained, which is not at
present the case. Till this end shall be accomplished, every in-
terim arrangement will be in danger of being overturned by subse-
quent discoveries.'
" From these remarks, the duty of pointing out defects, that in
the very nature of things belong to progressive science, when ne-
cessary to the exhibition of improvement, becomes abundantly ap-
parent.
' ;
Dr. Spurzheim's first division into Intellectual and Affective
Faculties, is the link by which phrenology is attached to the men-
tal philosophy of the old school. His division of the affective fac-
ulties into propensities and sentiments, nearly corresponds with
Brown's Prospective and Immediate Emotions. It is based upon
a conceived difference in their attributes. " Propensities," Spurz-
heim remarks, " invite only to certain actions ;" but sentiments are
not limited to inclination alone; " they have an emotion of a pe-
culiar kind superadded." After comparing the views of writers
who have recognized this distinction with the actual manifestations
of the affective powers, the committee are unable to believe that
grounds for this division exist. Each of these faculties has its own
sphere of action, but some of the spheres are higher than others.
Philoprogenitiveness has its nursery ; Adhesiveness its limited
circle of friends ; and Benevolence, the entire world. Alimentive-
ness impels attention to the wants of the nutritive system ; Cau-
tiousness induces general guardianship over both the corporeal
and mental constitutions ; and Hope excites to action under bright
views of a cloudless future. When these powers are aroused
by their appropriate stimuli, their activity is attended in all by a
feeling or an emotion, differing in the different faculties as widely
as the spheres in which they act.
336 APPENDIX.
" Now that, to Benevolence and the group of powers with which
it is associated, this attribute should be extended, while to Adhe-
siveness and the whole genus of animal propensities it is denied,
is considered a position unfounded in nature.
" The subdivision into sentiments common to man and the low-
er animals and those proper to man, is very clearly defective.
Spurzheim has given drawings showing that some dogs and horses
have a developement of Benevolence ; and Gall remarked that
lions were more full in the region of this organ than tigers. Imi-
tation is admitted by Spurzheim to be a faculty of some of the
monkey tribe ; and Mr. Combe remarks, that the organ is found
in the brains of both parrots and monkeys. It has also been sug-
gested, that the proverbial stubbornness of asses has its source in
Firmness. These examples show that the last division, though it
may be convenient, is not strictly philosophical. In the genus
animal propensities, Spurzheim has classed together .powers, at
least as little associated as are the superior and inferior sentiments.
Alimentiveness, a faculty related exclusively to the individual, is
placed beside Amativeness and Philoprogenitiveness, which are
clearly related to the species. In the arrangement of the intellectual
faculties, Language,* one of the lowest organs, and one which, ac-
cording to Bessieres, becomes fibrous immediately after Individu-
ality and Form, is elevated to a place directly below the reflectives.
" Mr. Grimes' classification, as presented in his ' New System of
Phrenology,' retains Spurzheim's first division of the powers of the
mind under the heads of Propensities and Intellectual Facul-
ties. The Propensities he divides into two classes, which he
denominates Ipseal and Social. He denies the distinction between
propensities and sentiments maintained by Spurzheim. His classi-
fication follows :
—
CLASS I.
Ipseal, or Self-Relative Propensities. *
CLASS II.
Social, or Society-Relative Propensities.
CLASS III.
Intellectual, or Knowledge-Relative Faculties.
* I consider this the organ of Sound.
APPENDIX. 337
CLASS I.—IPSEALS.
1. Corporeal Range.
1. Pneumativeness, 3. Sanativeness.
2. Alimentiveness,
2. Carnivorous Range
4. Destructiveness, 5. Combativeness.
3. Herbivorous Range.
6. Secretiveness, 7. Cautiousness.
4. Rodentia Range.
8. Constructiveness, 9. Acquisitiveness.
5. Human Range.
10. Playfulness, 12. Hopefulness.
11. Perfectiveness,
CLASS II.— SOCIALS.
Establishing Group.
1. Amativeness, 3. Inhabitiveness,
2. Parentiveness, 4. Adhesiveness.
Governing Group.
5. Imperativeness, 7. Firmness,
6. Approbativeness, 8. Conscientiousness.
Conforming Group.
9. Submissiveness, . 11. Imitativeness,
10. Kindness, 12. Credenciveness.
'
CLASS 111.—INTELLECTUALS.
Lower Range.
1. Individuality, 5. Size,
2. Chemicality, 6. Weight,
3. Language, 7. Color,
*
4. Form, 8. Order,
9. Number.
Middle Range.
10. Direction, 12. Time,
11. Eventuality, 13. Tune.
Upper Range.
14. Comparison, 15. Causality.
" This division into three classes, Ipseal, Social and Intellectual,
is founded," says the author, « upon the following considerations
:
15*
338 APPENDIX.
" '
First. Anatomy points to three grand divisions.
" ' 1. The spinal cord is in three columns, anterior, middle and
posterior ; and Mr. Charles Bell demonstrated that all the nerves
which proceed from one column are destined to perform one class
of functions. The nerves from the anterior column are for volition ;
those from the middle for respiration aud nutrition ; and those from
the posterior for sensation.
" ' 2. The medulla oblongata, Mr. Bell considered as a continua-
tion of the same three columns of the spinal cord. It has three
bodies,
The pyramidal, in the anterior ;
The olivary, in the middle, and
The restiform in the posterior column.
" ' 3. The brain has always been divided into three lobes—ante-
rior, middle and posterior—and the division may be found strongly
marked in the brains of all the higher animals. Spurzheim found
by dissection, that the fibres of the anterior pyramidal bodies of the
oblongata expanded into and constituted the anterior lobes of the
brain. And he contended that the middle and posterior lobes orig-
inated in the other two parts of the oblongata.
" ' 4. Each hemisphere has a great lateral ventricle, and this ven-
tricle presents an appearance which has been denominated tricornes,
or three horns—anterior, middle and posterior."
" c
5. In a note which the committee have received from Mr.
Grimes, it is said that Spurzheim considered the spinal cord as
having three commissures, anterior, middle and posterior. And
also, that the functions of the body are subdivided by some phy-
siologists into three classes. Richard divides them into those that
relate to the individual, those that relate to the species, and those
that relate to the acquisition of knowledge.
" ' Second. The natural history of animals is all in harmony
with this classification.
" < 4. The three powers, viz. Amativeness, Alimentiveness and
Individuality, which constitute the foundation of the three classes,
are manifested by all animals. No animal, however low in the
scale of beings, is destitute of these three.
The organs of these powers are found in the very base of the brain.
Amativeness at the lowest posterior ;
Alimentiveness at the lowest middle, and
Individuality in the centre of the lowest front part of the brain.
APPENDIX. 339
** * 3. In the social class, if we begin at Amativeness, we find
-it manifested by all animals. If we proceed upward and forward,
according to the arrangement of the powers, until we arrive at
Credenciveness, we shall trace the progress of society, from its
very lowest stage, up through every grade of animals, to its high-
est perfection in the most polished circles of human society.
<c ' In the Ipseal class, if we commence at Alimentiveness, we
see it manifested by all animals ; and if we proceed upward, ac-
cording to the arrangement of the powers, we find the first and
second ranges of Ipseals manifested by the lowest classes of ani-
mals ; the third range is manifested by the higher and more
sagacious animals ; and the fourth range is fully manifested only
in man, and in his brain only is it found fully developed.
" '
In the intellectual class, if we commence at Individuality, we
see it manifested by the very lowest animals ! and if we proceed
upwards, according to the arrangement of the powers, we. shall
perceive that the organs rise and expand out of each other, in a
manner strictly agreeing with the progressive intelligence of
animals ; Causality, the highest of this class, being manifested in
a vigorous and efficient manner only by man, the very highest and
most complicated of organized beings.
" ' Third. 1. The Ipseal propensities produce those actions only
which have for their object the nourishment, protection, improve-
ment and happiness of the individual.
<<
' 2. The Social propensities originate those actions only, which
have for their object, the production, the establishment, and the
government of society, and conformity to its useful regulations.
" '
3. The intellectual faculties acquire knowledge, and point out
the means by which the propensities may be gratified.'
" The considerations which Mr. Grimes has presented in sup-
port of his division of the cerebral organs into three classes are of
three kinds :
—
Anatomical Structure, Natural History of
Animals, an.1 Analysis of the Mental Powers. Of these, the
committee have been unable to perceive the value which Mr.
Grimes seems to attach to the anatomical facts. As a class of
truths, they harmonize with this classification, and may therefore
be said to lend it some support ; but alone they must be regarded
as far from contributing sufficient ground for this division. The
occurrence of the fundamental organs of each class at the base of
340 APPENDIX.
the brain, and the regular gradation of the powers, from Amative-
ness to Credenciveness, through the socials ; from Alimentiveness
to Hopefulness, through the Ipseals ; and from Individuality to
Causality, through the Intellectuals, corresponding with the suc-
cession of animals in the scale of beings, from the lowest orders
up to man, are certainly in beautiful harmony with, and go to sus-
tain the last and most important consideration upon which the
classification rests. In the analysis, Mr. Grimes shows that all the
powers of each class perform certain specific functions that have a
generic character in common. All the powers of the Ipseal class are
related to the individual, those of the Social class to society, and
those of the Intellectual class to knowledge. He also shows that
each of the powers of the several groups in each class have a sub-
generic character in common. The first four socials, Amativeness,
Parentiveness, Adhesiveness and Inhabitiveness, have for their
object the continuation of the species and the establishment of so-
ciety; those of the governing group/ Imperativeness, Approbative-
ness, Firmness and Conscientiousness, have for their object the main-
tenance of government in society, and the administration of justice
;
those of the conforming group, Submissiveness, Kindness, Imitative-
ness and Credenciveness, have for their object the perfection of so-
ciety, by "obedience to government, condescension and kindness to
all our associates, and conformity to their manners, habits and
opinions." In the Ipseal class he shows, that the powers of the
corporeal range are related to the nourishment and preservation of
the body ; that those of the carnivorous range are most strongly
manifested in the animals that feed upon flesh, and procure it by
the destruction of life ; that Cautiousness in the herbivorous range
characterizes the peace-seeking, ruminating animals ;* that those
of the rodentia range distinguish the whole order of animals to
which the beaver and squirrel belong ; that those of t
the human
range are fully developed only in man. He makes Playfulness
the link in the Ipseal chain, which connects man with the lower
animals ; the other organs of this range being exclusively human.
He shows that men who have a developemeut corresponding
* Secretiveness is thought by Mr. Grimes to distinguish the Herbi-
vora. It is also manifested in a high degree by the Carnivora. The
essential question, however, is whether the associated organs perform
analogous functions.
APPENDIX. 341
with that of animals belonging to either the carnivora, herbivore,
or rodentia, are, so far as their lpseal character is concerned, en-
stamped with the dispositions -
peculiar to the carnivorous, herbi-
vorous, or gnawing animals. The Intellectual class, with the ex-
ception of a division into ranges, he considers as a whole, and
treats the organs in their order of succession, commencing at In-
dividuality, and proceeding through the first and second ranges of
perceptives to the refiectives.
" From this hasty view of the principal systems of arrangement
among the powers of the mind which have hitherto received at-
tention, the committee pass to the more direct comparison of the
classification of Mr. Grimes with that of Dr. Spurzheim. In doing
this, it may be well to notice some of the principles of classifica-
tion in nature, since correspondence with them can alone give
perpetuity to any system, and since they constitute the only true
standard of merit. Among those which, in phrenology, are
obviously important, may be enumerated the following
:
" I. Powers immediately related in functional character should
be arranged in the same division.
" II. Powers not directly related, but differing in attributes,
should be arranged in different divisions.
" III. The order of succession of the organs anatomically con-
sidered, and the relationship of the powers according to metaphy-
sical analysis, should harmonize with each other.
" If a classification is defective when viewed in the light of
either of these principles, it is manifestly imperfect ; and that
classification against which, when tested by these principles, there
are found fewest objections, is the'most perfect.
" In noticing Spurzheim's classification, it was observed that
Language, manifestly low in the scale of perceptives—inasmuch
as it is possessed by almost every individual of the animal king-
dom, and the organ of which is at the very base of the brain—is
ranked next to the reflectives. It was also seen, that Alimentive-
ness, a propensity related wholly to the individual, is associated
with Amativeness and Philoprogenitiveness, which are beyond
question related to the species. He has placed in separate sub-
divisions, Adhesiveness, Approbativeness and Benevolence,
making the first an animal propensity proper, the second an
affective power common to man and animals, and the last a power
342 APPENDIX.
proper lo man. While it is plain that Adhesiveness characterizes
man, even in his higher walks, as much as animals, and more so
than most, and that Appro bativeness, though common to man and
some animals, cannot be claimed to be possessed by all inferior
creatures, it is equally plain, from facts adduced by Gall, Spurzheim
and Combe, that Benevolence distinguishes several orders of lower
animals. This view leaves the alternative of regarding those in-
stances where animals present a development of the powers not in
conformity with the classification as exceptions to a general rule,
or as considering the lines of distinction as improperly drawn. As
no arrangement like the above is proposed by Mr Grimes, none of
the above objections apply with force to his classification.
" Since the authors of the classification before us draw the same
line, and give it the same direction between the intellectual facul-
ties and the affective faculties, or propensities, the' further question
of relative merit resolves itself info the following inquiries.
" 1. Is the distinction between sentiments and propensities
maintained by Spurzheim, founded in nature ?
" 2. If it be not founded in nature, are all the powers of the
Ipseal class according to Grimes, related to the individual ; and
are all the powers of the Social class related to society ?
" 1. Combe says in his remarks upon what distinguish sentiments
from propensities, that ' Acquisitiveness is a mere impulse to
acquire ; but Veneration gives a tendency to worship, accompanied
with a particular emotion.' Acquisitiveness is made the represen-
tative of all the animal propensities, and Veneration of the moral
sentiments ; and the argument based upon them is applied to the
two genera.
It is true that the evidence here to be adduced is in Conscious-
ness, and therefore may perhaps be thought difficult to present
;
but as the laws of the mind are immutable, and as the germ of ev-
ery mental power is possessed by every sound mind, it may be
fairly presumed that testimony upon a point of such importance is
not altogether shut out from view. Let there be taken Firmness
from the moral sentiments, and Combativeness from the animal
propensities. When the former is in action, the possessor feels an
impulse to resist the influence of others, and to maintain any position
he may have assumed—a tendency to fixedness—and this feeling
or impulse is called an emotion. When the latter is aroused, the
APPENDIX. 343
possessor feels an impulse to oppose whatever may be in his path-
way. Now between the two, is there any difference beyond the
particular character of the attribute ? Is there any thing amounting
to a superaddition ? If there be not, this distinction of Spurzheim
is without existence in nature.
2. Are all the powers of the Ipseal class, according to Grimes,
related to the individual, and those of the Social class to society ?
In other language, it may be asked, could each power of the Ipseal
class be brought into legitimate exercise, though the whole species
besides the individual were annihilated—and could any of the So-
cial class be legitimately exercised without the being of society ?
A detailed reply to these interrogatories would involve an analy-
sis of all the powers of the two classes, a task whose execution it
cannot be conceived could be brought within the limits of this re-
port.
That these two generic functions are respectively characteristic
of the two classes, it may be remarked, is not denied, since Car-
michael and Besseires have admitted its truth among the lower
powers of the two classes, though they were unable to perceive its
extension through the whole. From a careful examination of the
analyses, the ground of distinction between the two classes, and
their limits seem to be well established. The subdivisions of the
two classes appear among the obvious arrangements of nature. Of
the lpseals, the corporeal range has relation clearly to the demands
of the physical system. So nearly allied in function are Comba-
tiveness and Destructiveness, that the language of their respective
analyses almost seems to be applicable to a single power. No two,
in many respects, appear so nearly related as Secretiveness and
Cautiousness ; and the propriety of associating Acquisitiveness
and Constructiveness is obvious, for the hoarding of possessions de-
mands a place of reception. The powers of the last range, accord-
ing to Mr. Grimes' analyses, appear all related to the improvement
and the perfection of the individual ; they seem to point to higher
and nobler spheres of action than any of the preceding ranges, and
are therefore justly separated from the lower powers.
Of the Socials, all the powers of the establishing group have the
distinguishing generic character expressed in the name under which
they are arranged. This remark is equally true of the governing
and the conforming groups.
344 APPENDIX.
While the division of the powers into three classes, and their
suhdivision into ranges and groups, may be considered important
and useful, the distinguishing feature, and that which to the com-
mittee constitutes the highest merit of the new classification, con-
sists in this, that it traces the chain of functional relationship, from
the lowest organ to the highest of each class.
If Mr. Grimes' classification is founded in nature, the following
are some of the advantages which may be expected from its
adoption.
1
.
It will facilitate the application of phrenological principles in
deciding upon character from an examination of the head. Upon
noticing the predominance of one class of organs, it may be said of
the individual thus marked, he is Ipseal, Social, or Intellectual
;
or, upon observing two classes prevailing over the third, it may be
said, he is Ipseal and Intellectual, or Social and Intellectual, or
both Ipseal and Social. The same principle will be applicable in
speaking of the developement of one group, or of two groups of the
Socials, and also of the ranges of Ipseals and Intellectuals. The
effects of a combined developement of particular groups in the
different classes will be more readily understood.
2. It will aid analysis, in ascertaining the ultimate function of
each organ. Upon knowing its position, and the relation it sus-
tains to others—with what organ it would probably act, and
whether in the centre of a class, or joined to organs of other classes,
its manifestations will be more readily perceived, and more clearly
comprehended.
3. It will aid in discovery, by directing the eyes of all phre-
nologists to limited regions of the brain, when in search for the
seat of a faculty, in whose existence they have been induced to
believe. For example, if the seat of a supposed power related to
corporeal wants be sought, the attention will be directed to de-
velopements and deiiciencies in the corporeal range. If the
function of the organ occupying the region marked upon the bust
of Mr. Combe as unknown, be the object of discovery, several aids
will be afforded. It must, in the first place, be either Ipseal or
Social ; and in the second place, it must be either a Social of the
conforming group, or an Ipseal of the human range.
4. It will furnish phrenology with new claims to the character
APPENDIX. 345
of an established science ; and by its simplicity and consistency,
will induce the student to pursue its investigation with the same
kind of satisfaction that now attends his study of the older sciences.
In conclusion, the committee state, that distrusting their own
abilities to discharge the duties assigned them, they entered into
correspondence upon the question to be determined with several
phrenological writers. They have also examined all the published
works relating to the subject which they could command. And
with these materials before them, after weighing the whole matter,
the result is the opinion, that the classification of Mr. Grimes is a
decided improvement, as it arranges the powers of the mind more
nearly in accordance with the ^laws of natural relationship than
any of the systems which have preceded it.
E. N. HORSFORD,
Chairman of Committee on
Grimes' Classification.
" At the close of Mr. Grimes' lectures, delivered in the Chapel
of the Albany Female Academy, the class organized by appointing
Charles D. Townsend, M.D., Chairman, and Thomas W. Olcott,
Esq., Secretary. Whereupon Henry Green, M. D., introduced the
following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted.
" Resolved, That we have listened with exciting interest to the
Lectures of Mr. Grimes, President of the Phrenological Society of
Buffalo, on the science of phrenology.
" Resolved, That we believe Mr. Grimes has made new and im-
portant discoveries in Phrenology; that his arrangement of the
brain into three classes of organs, viz : —the Ipseal, Social and In-
tellectual, together with their subdivisions into ranges or groups,
is founded in nature, the anatomy of the brain, and the natural
gradation of animals as they rise in the scale of being.
" Resolved, That we are forced to believe that Phrenology, as
taught by Mr. Grimes, may be learned by persons of ordinary in-
telligence and observation, so as to be useful to them in their every
day intercourse with society—that it is destined to improve our
race, remodel the present mode of education, become useful in
legislation, and in the government of children in families and in
schools.
346 APPENDIX.
" Resolved, That we not only esteem it a duty, but regard it a
pleasure, to encourage talents, genius and enterprise, wherever we
discover them, and in whatever pursuit, if the object and effect is
the improvement of mankind—that we regard Mr. Grimes as pos-
sessing the highest order of intellect, as original in his observations
and deductions, and as destined to fill a distinguished place in the
scientific world.
" Resolved, That we confidently recommend Mr. Grimes to- the
attention of our fellow citizens in different sections of our extended
country, believing they will find him an accomplished lecturer, a
close, accurate, forcible reasoner, and inimitable in his illustrations
of the science he so triumphantly advocates.
" Resolved, That Henry Greene, M. D. , and Professor McKee,
of the Albany Academy, be a committee to present a copy of these
resolutions to Mr. Grimes, and request their publication in the
daily papers of the city.
'
« C. D. TOWNSEND, M.D., Chairman.
"T. W. Olcott, Secretary."
" Prof. Grimes, whose lectures on phrenolgoy, at Buffalo, Al-
bany, and other cities, have excited unusual interest, and elicited
the warmest approbation, proposes to deliver a course of lectures
in this city immediately. His System differs materially in its de-
tails from that of Gall, Spurzheim and Combe, though resting on
the same general foundation. We have not yet heard him ; but
from the testimony of friends on whom we can place reliance, we
know that he handles his subject like a master, and that those who
can find time to attend his lectures will be entertained and edified."
—New Yorker.
" Professor Grimes, the phrenologian, whose original and in-
genious views on phrenological science have caused his lectures to
be very much followed in our western cities, has arrived here, and
puts up at the Astor. He brings with him most flattering testi-
monials, from his Excellency the Governor, and others of Albany,
where his last course was delivered. He proposes, we are pleased
to hear, to give an opportunity to the citizens of New York to
judge of the merits of his discoveries and deductions, in what he
APPENDIX. 347
justly terms the science of phreno-physiognomy, embracing all the
phenomena developed in the brain, features, and whole organ-
ization, and character and habits of the individual, as divided into
the three great orders of mammalia, viz : —the camivorce, the
graminivom and the rodenticc—corroborated by illustrations from
every tribe of animated nature—the only true and exact base of
this interesting science."
—
N. Y. Star.
" New Tlicory of Phreno-Physiognomy, by James Stanley Grimes,
Esq.—Mr. Grimes delivered his first lecture last night, at the
American Institute, to a respectable and intelligent audience.
Every body present seemed impressed with the truth, force and
originality of his new views on the science of phreno-physiog-
nomy. Mr. Grimes has the merit of making himself clearly under-
stood, and of presenting his subject under its natural divisions, and
with great distinctness. He appealed, in strong and effective dec-
lamation, to the common sense of all present, and gave such fa-
miliar, graphic illustrations of his analysis of the temperaments,
and of the language of the passions, displaying the powers of
mimicry and eloquence to great advantage, that all present, we be-
lieve we may with truth say, were convinced that the theory of
the Professor is based upon practical sound sense and indisputable
facts."
—
Ibid.
" Lecture on Phrenology.—Professor Grimes, we are happy to
hear, has consented to repeat his introductory lecture on phre-
nology this evening, at the rooms of the American Institute, rear of
the City Hall. The views on the science of phrenology, presented
by Professor Grimes on Monday evening, were entitely new, and
elicited a universal request from the audience for a repetition on
this evening, and we trust all who feel an interest in the subject
will attend."—N. Y. Times.
" The Lectures on Phreno-Physiognomy, by Professor Grimes.—
Mr. Grimes will continue his course to-night, at the American In-
stitute. The subject being one of particular interest, viz : —the
highest range of the ipseal faculties, as he calls them, or those pe-
culiar to man, as distinguished from all other animals. Mr. G.'s
last lecture was received with great approbation, and fully sus-
348 APPENDIX.
tainted his bold original theory, which has the merit of producing
conviction, because we have before remarked, its illustrations are
drawn from the only sure foundation for these investigations."
—
N. Y. Star.
" Mr. Grimes commences a third course of lectures to night,
having been engaged to deliver the same before the Mechanics'
Library Association, at their lecture room, in Crosby street, near
the corner of Grand. The popularity of this gentleman is in-
creasing daily, as is evinced by the flattering demands upon him
by the most respectable literary institutions of our city.
" We understand, the lectures of Mr. Grimes, at the Crosby
street Institute, before the Mechanics' and Tradesmens' Library
Association, are so crowded that it is next to impossible to obtain
admission. Last night a great number had to go away. We felt
sure that when this gifted and luminous expounder of the only
true laws of phrenological science should have a hearing he would
dai ly gain more and more converts to his views on this interesting
subject."—N. Y. Star.
Union College, Oct. 21st, 1840.
The following resolutions were passed at a meeting of the Stu-
dents of Union College, after attending a course of lectures, deliver-
ed by J. Stanley Grimes', on the subject of Phrenology.
Resolved, Thai Professor Grimes, as a Phrenologist and Elocu-
tionist, merits our highest approbation.
Resolved, That we consider his style of lecturing and system of
Phrenology, as evincing diversity of talent, originality of thought,
and extended observation ; and that his is a decided improvement
on all the preceding systems of Phrenology.
Resolved, That the President appoint a committee to transmit a
copy of the above to Prof. Grimes, and also to one of the editors
of the city papers for publication. GEORGE WILSON, Pres.
Patrick U. Major, Sec'ry.
On Friday Evening last, after J. Stanley Grimes, Esq. had de-
livered his concluding lecture on Phrenology in the Exchange Sa-
loon of this city, the audienee remained and a meeting was organ-
ized by calling His Excellency, Gov. Edwards, to the Chair, and
APPENDIX. 349
appointing W. E. Robinson, Secretary. Whereupon the following
resolutions were proposed and unanimously adopted :
Resolved, That we have listened with increasing interest and de-
light to the course of lectures just concluded by James Stanley
Grimes, Esq., on the Science of Phrenology.
Resolved, That we believe Mr. Grimes has made many valuable
discoveries and improvements in the Science : That we admire his
lucid explanation of the connection and harmony between the or-
gans of the brain and those of the body, and that his classification
and arrangement of the Phrenological organs appear to be founded
in nature.
i
Resolved, That we take pleasure in recommending Mr. Grimes
as a pleasing, original and able lecturer, that, whether in this
country or in Europe, where we understand he intends to lecture
on this science, he has our best wishes for his success and happi-
ness.
Resohdd, That the Secretary of this meeting be appointed to
present a copy of these resolutions to Mr. Grimes.
TO. E. ROBINSON, Secretary.
New Haven, Dec, 12, 1840.
Mr. Grimes' last lecture in Hudson. —On Friday evening last
Mr. Grimes completed his second course of Lectures on Phrenology,
in this city, before a numerous and highly respectable audience.
At the close of the lecture Josiah W. Fairfield, Esq. made a few
appropriate remarks complimentary to Mr. Grimes, and proposed
that the audience should resolve itself into a meeting for the pur-
pose of passing resolutions, expressive of its sense in regard to
Mr. Grimes' lectures. Whereupon Col. Charles Darling, was
called to the Chair, and J. R. S. Van Vleet appointed Secretary.
J. Sutherland Esq. then rose, and alter some remarks expressive
of the pleasure and gratification with which he had listened to
Mr. Grimes' able exposition of his system of Phrenology, offered
the following resolution, which, on motion of J. W. Fairfield, Esq.
was adopted.
Resolved, That we have listened with high gratification to the
course of lectures on the science of Phrenology delivered in this
city by Professor Grimes, and which have been this evening comple-
ted. That we feel it due to Professor Grimes to express our
350 APPENDIX.
thanks for the instruction and pleasure his lectures have afforded
us, and the interest we have felt in his able exposition of the
principles of Phrenology. That his manner of lecturing is ad-
mirable, combining amusement with instruction, and well calcu-
lated to impress favorably all who hear him with the principles of
the science. That we highly commend his zeal and ability in ad-
vancing a science the aim of which is more perfect knowledge of
intellectual Philosophy and of ourselves.
The Secretary of the meeting then offered the following, which,
on motion of Cyrus Curtiss, Esq., was also adopted,
Whereas, the labors of Mr. Grimes are for the present ended in
this city, we deem it a duty we owe to him—to the cause of truth,
and to ourselves, that we give an expression of the high gratifica-
tion with which we have listened to his interesting and instructive
lectures. Therefore be it
Resolved, That we approve of his classification of the Phreno-
logical organs—of his explanation of the temperaments, and of
his new system of Phreno-Physiognomy.
Resolved, That we cheerfully recommend Mr. Grimes to the
public, as an able advocate for his new and beautiful theory of
the human mind, and from whose teachings we have derived in a
high degree, intellectual pleasure and instruction.
On motion, it was resolved that the proceedings of this meeting
be signed by the Chairman arid Secretary, and published in both
the newspapers in the city.
CHARLES DARLING, Chairman.
J. R. S. Van Vleet, Sec'y.
Hudson, June 6th, 1840.
