{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__hall___mesmerism_its_rise_progress_and_mysteries.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmerism Its Rise Progress And Mysteries","mylang":"de"}
MESlVIERISM:
IT~
RISE, PROGRESS, AND MYSTERIES
IN ALL
AGES AND COUNTRIES, I
BEING A CRITICAL INQUlRY INTO ITS ASSUMED MERITS
AND HISTORY OF ITS MOCK MARVELS,
HALLUCINATIONS, AND FRAUDS.
BY
CHARLES RADCLYFFE LL, M.D.,
Extra-Licentiate of the College of Physicians, London.
FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
FRO~I THE CELEI!R.A.TED MEDICAL JOURNAL, THE LONDON L.A.NCET•
NEW yoRK:
.'
J
"BURGESS, STRINGER AND COMPANY.
18 45.
B
)'J4 I
J ~ 1/:;
f·/ #0 2 ~ 0
THOMAS WALSH, PRINTER,
No. 41 .R.nn-street.
7
THE
RISE, PROGRESS, AND MYSTERIES
OF
MESMERISM,
IN ALL AGES AND COUNTRIES.
WE have recently been assured that the public now expect
the medical profession to investigate mesmerism,* and, as if
any stimulus beyond this most reasonable expectation were
needed, we are also informed tha.t in Paris every fourth medi-
cal m<tn is already a mesmerist, and consequently, either a
visior.ary or a juggler; "for," says Teste, "there is no
medium; either medicine is but a chimera, or magnetism is I
but juggling."
Without understanding the logic which reduces us to this sad
alternative, it would be unjust to decide, without examination,
that the latter proposition is the tru0 one. It is not easy, how-
ever, to determine the best mode of conducting the inquiry.
Does the student of mesmerism venture to express his dissent,
without having made any experimental investigations on the
subject? How irrational to form an opinion on matters with
which he has no practical acquaintance! Does he make ex-
periments extensively, and still arrive at hostile conclusions?
How absurd to suppose, that because experiments fail in the
hands of a novice, they cannot succeed in those of a proficient!
Nor are these the only horns of the dilemma. The state of
mind of the student must be peculiar. " Forget," says
Deleuse, " for awhile, all your knowledge of physics and
metaphysics. Remove from your mind all o~jections that
may occur. Never reason for six weeks, after you have com-
menced the study." Thus, a perfect faith in the truth of the
doctrines of mesmerism is an indispensable preliminary to
their successful investig<ttion. In othe~ words, the mind must
"' Mesmerism and its Opponents. By Rev. G. Sandby.
4 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
feel that conviction which can only result from the sound exer-
cise of reason, before reason is permitted to be exercised a~ all
-a paradox incomprehensible as strange to an unmesmensed
capacity. So delicate, moreover, is the mesmeric agent, that
the mere presence of a sceptical person will generally prevent
an experiment from perfectly succeeding, and has often been
assigned as the cause of failure.
A principal authority on the subject demands of his oppo-
nents that they shall examine and refute every fact brought
forward (as such) in the voluminous works onlVienholt, Olbers,
Treviranus, and a host of other writers; prove that their authors
"were and are fools, or knaves and liars," and that nature her-
self is "an arrant quack and impostor;" before they can "be
allowed to boast of having refuted animal magnetism."* As
well might one hesitate to disbelieve in the elixir of life and
transmutation of metals, because he had not examined and re-
futed the thousand facts, so called, in the numerous works on
occult science ! If we can disprove the facts asserted in every
similar instance, where all the modifying circumstances are
known, we may safely neglect the others recorded, of many of
the conditions of which we must necessarily be ignorant.
The ancient origin of mesmerism, the nullity of the infer-
. ences of the first French commission, the unanswerable conclu-
sions from undeniable facts of the second, the belief in animal
magn~tism of " that one conscientious man," Jussieu, are
amongst the many assertions in the modern works on mes-
merism which a simple detail of facts will refute ; whilst the
result of the last French commission, and of the attempts to
gain the Burdin prize, are examples of convenient omissions,
which the slightest attention in making an historical sketch
should have prevented. Few authors on mesmerism have
hazarded a definition of their science, but they have favoured
us with abundance of equivocal experiments as the basis ot
very unequivocal reasoning, doubtful facts, imperfect analo-
gies, vague generalizations, glaring sophisms, forgotten absurdi-
ti~s revived, and new ones originated. In attempting to ascer-
tam what proportion the merits of mesmerism bear to its
pretensions, it is difficult to obtain any new data that will
satisfy the mesmerists, so long as the inferencP.s clearly dedu-
cible are opposed to their doctrines : still they can offer no
objection to data furnished by themselves-to the evidence of
their own recorded facts.
Before examining mesmerism as it is, however, it will be
desirable to glance at mesmerism as it has been and note the
v.arious phases it has from time to 1ime presenteq, during its
r1se and progress.
.. Isis Revelata.
HIBTORY OF MESMERISM. 5
The subject will be treated under the following heads :-
A. Assumed antiquity of mesmerism.
B. Real origin, and progress to the present time.
C. Description of the various modes of inducing mesmeric
phenomena, and effects state.l to have been produced.
D. The facts (so called) of modern mesmerism, arranged so
as to collate the statements 0f different writers in favour
of mesmerism, under the fol10wing heads :__:__
1. Alleged conditions of mesmeric susceptibility.
2. Alleged conditions necessary for producing mesmeric
phenomena.
3. Various mvdes of inducin~ mesmeric phenomena.
4. Variuus modes of demesmerising.
5. Effects alleged to be produced by mesmeric operations,
miscellaneous effects.
And the following alleged effects :-
6. Effects on the muscular system.
7. Effects on the common sensibility.
8. Effects on the sense of smell.
9. Effects on the sense of taste.
10. Effects on the sense of hnaring.
11. Effects on the sense of sight.
12. Effects on the intellectual faculties and moral feelings;
phreno-magnetism, &c.
13. Effects as a remedial agent.
14. Effects on brutes.
E. Theories of the mesmerists,
F. Concluding remarks
ASSUMED ANTIQUITY OF MESMERISM.
§ 1. Mesmerism, according to its advocates, has been "dimly
known for thousands of years in barbarous and semi-barbarous
countries, known as to some of its high results in many of the
great nations of antiquity, though the knowledge was confined
to the chosen."* The proofs of this are selected from various
sources. From the Bible, Foissac enumerates, as men possess-
ing great magnetic power, Moses, Aaron, Samuel, Balaam,
Elias, Elisha, and others. He remarks, that when .Moses held
up his hands, Israel was victorious, and when he lowered them,
Amalek had the advantage. The anger of Naaman at not being
touched by the prophet for the cure of his leprosy; the circum-
stance of Elijah and Elisha each stretching his body over that
of the person whom he restorerl to life ; of Elisha requiring a
minstrel to play music before he would prophesy to K_
ing
Jehoram, are illustrations of a knowledge of animal magnetism
from the Old Testament, as the sudden death of Ananias and
,. Zoist, vol. i. p. 58, and Caldwell's Facts in Mesmerism.
6 HISTORY Oi' MESMERIS~I.
Sapphira, on the words of St. Peter, and the instant cures,
usually deemed miraculous, are considered to be so many ex-
amples from the New.
§ :2. Almost all the marvellous cures on record have h~er~ ~·e­
ferred to the operation of this agent. Thus with equal iacl~Ity
are explained the healing uf the wound of Ulysses ?Y mag1cal
incantation ; the cure of fevers and of hydrophobm by pro-
nouncing the word Abracadabra ; of sciatica, ague, and renal
affections, by music ; of the bite of serpents, by ~ongs ; and tl~c
reduction of disfocations, by secret words. Kmg Pyrrhus IS
reported to have cured diseases of the spleen by gentle pres-
sure over the affected organ with his right foot. The Empe-
rors Hadrian and Vespasian cured congenital blindness by
merely touching the eyes ; and, besides the royal touch in
England and France, the ancient princes of Austria cured
scrof11la by giving with their own hand a glass of wine to the
patient to drink.* The effects of amulets, talismans, love-
charms, aud philtres, entitle these to a place in the same
category.
§ 3. In Egypt and Chaldrea, the practice of divination and
of the prediction of future events; in Greece, the ceremonies
at the cave ')f Trophonius, and the temple of JEsculapius,
and a passage from Stobreus, are referred to as proofs that
animal magnetism was not nnknown. An ironical passage
from Plautus is quoted seriously, and the rites at the Pythian
and Sibylline oracles are adduced as reasons for concluding
that the Romans possessed similar knowledge.
§ 4. If the Bible, indeed, furnish examples in support of
animal magnetism, the most pertinent one, perhaps, has been
strangely overlooked. It is that of " a certain damsel pos-
sessed with a spirit of divination, which brought her masters
much gain by soothsaying." The rites of the Egyptian and
Chaldean priests are too little known to furnish certain evi-
dence of the existtmce of anything but chicanery and gross
imposture, and cannot, therefore, have any bearing on mes-
merism. The pas~:agc from Stobreus merely proves that Solon
(if he really were 1he author of it) believed that diseases which
resisted all inward medicines might sometimes be cured by ihe
simple process of external friction. t
.. Virey, art. Animal Mag., in Diet. des Sciences Medical.
t The passage is from a fragment of Solrm, in which the author after
enumerating other employments whereuy men acquire riches, and re'mark-
ing the uncertainty of them, comes in order to members of the medical
profe~sion, and observes, even in that day, "to these al~o there is no cer-
tainty of success." Then follow the four lines in f!Uestion, of which the
following is a literal translation:-" But often from a small pain great suf-
fering arise~. and one cannot alleviate by giving soothing medicines and
by touching (or stroking) with hi; hand, one immeiliately makes wh~le a
man afllicted with bad and painful diseases."
IllSTOUY OF MESl\IERISM. 7
§ 5. 'Vith respect to the cave of Trophonius, Pausanias in-
forms us that the consultant first drinks of the waters of
Lethe, to cause him to forget the past, and then of the waters
of Mnem_osyr~e, to enable him to recollect all that he may see
?r _l~arn ~n Ius descent. He nex_t passes into the cave, and is
mttw.ted mto the secrets of futunty. After a time, except, in-
deed, he had entered with the felonious intent of stealing the
gold and silver offerings, in which case he is seen no more, he
comes up again. Immediately on his return, he knows
neither hims<:>lf nor others, but presently he regains his con-
s~iousness. It is mentioned by several authors, that the devo-
tees of .tEsculapius used to fall asleep in his temples; but if,
as is said, t.hey stayed there many days, the mesmeric influence
was not more powerful than we occasionally see it in temples
of modern date. Plautus adopts the story of Mercury on pur-
pose to make a pun upon it. Mercury, prowling about the
streets after dark, meets with Sos1a, whom he perceives to be
in a great fright at him; and to increase this, he holds a dia-
lo~~ue witl1 his fists, so that Sosia may hear. He congratulates
thnm on having put to sleep four men that day already; whereon
Sosia, making a bad pun, expresses his alarm lest he should be
the fifth ; and then a few lines below comes the passage in
question, in which Mercury, speaking ironically, says, "What
if I tot1ch him gently, (tractim tangam-..what if I stroke him
down,) that he may sleep !" The allusion, without doubt, is
11ot to "putting a child to sleep by gently rubbing it,"* but to
the power supposed to reside in the caduceus of Mercury of
sentling any whom it touched to sleep. Indeed, when Mercury
lulletl Argus to slumber by the sound of his lyre, and deepened
his sleep with his caduceus-
"firmatque sopore
Languida permulcens merlicata lumina virga"-
Ovw, Fab. xiii.
preparatory to cutting off his head, he equalled our modern
mesmerisers in humanity, and far excelled them in mesmeric
power, closing at once a hundred eyes instead of two.
§ 6. Pythagoras ranks high as an ancient magnetiser, and not
undeservedly.t By a word he is said to have tamed a furious
bear, prevented an ox from eating beans, and stopped an eagle
in its flight. He vvas on the same day present and haranguing
the public at Metapontum in Italy, and at Tauromenium ~n
Sicily. He predicted future events, and stated that certa~_n
periodical absences from his followers were occasioned by h~s
visits to hell. He recollected that his soul had already am-
mated four different bodies before his own. Socrates was ac-
~ Elliot;;on's Physiology, p. 665.
t Foissac instance~ Pythagoras, Socrates, and Apollonius, as men of
mesmeric power.-[Rapports et Discussions, &c., 1S33.)
8 HISTORY OF MES.IIIERIS.M.
quainted with animal magnetism, for he believed that the gods
sometimes allowed to men a foreknowledge of future events,
and his familiar demon has been ascribed to the influence
of mesmerism. To Apollonius Tyaneu ·, however, must J:>e
awarded the palm as a mesmerist. Not only was he versed m
all human languages, though he b~d never learn?d them, but he
even understood the language of beasts and bu·ds. lie fore-
told future events; and whilst discoursing at Ephesus, was
COlJscious of the murder of Domitian at Rome, at the very
instant when the tyrant was slain. lie held a conversation
with t11 ghost o1 Achilles, saw the chains. of Prometheus on
Mount Caucasus, and in the course of Jus travels met w1th
trees that spoke, phcenixes, satyrs, and dragoJJs; and lasqy, so
great was his magnetic power, that his mere presence, w1thout
his uttering a single word, sufficed to quell popular tumults.
Nothing but mesmerism can account for these things.
§ 7. If all that was marvellous in the impostures of ancient
p1·iestcraft, every instance in which the mind exerted a power-
ful influence over the body, or one man over his fellow-men,
and ·every case recorded of the remedial efficacy of touching,
handling, friction, or any other outward act calculated to excite
faith in the patient, are to he refened to mesmerism, then in-
deed have we evidence sufficient that the art has been known
and practised from the most remote period. But unless it can
be shewn that by such reference, all that before was unintelli-
gible and mysterious becomes clear and easy of explanation, the
question is not very important, since antiquity is no guarantee
for truth, nor any apology for error. To establish the claim
of mesmerism to an origm so ancient as its advocates assume,
it would be necessary to prove, first, that all the circumstances
adduced in support of such an opinion are authentic; secondly,
that they can all be clearly and completely explained by the
doctrines of mesmerism ; and la~ly, that they cannot be ac..
counted for in any other way with equal probability. Not one
of these positions can be maintained.
REAL ORIGIN AND PROGRESS OF MESMERISM TO THE
PRESENT TIME.
§ 8. The mineral magnet was, from time immemorial, em-
ployed as a remedy in the treatment of burns and other in-
jurios.* But it was not 1mtil the sixteenth century, when al-
" AE. the ma!i01et anti gold '":ere invested with somewhat similar powers
by the. a!che~1sts, ~he belief m tl~e remedial efficacy of both might possi-
_bly ongma_te m a hteral ac.ceptatwn of an enigmatical aphorism. Thus
m the myshcallanguage adopted for concealmentfrom all but the initiated'
Gober, in 800, atates, " Gol_d cures leprosy,.cures all diseases ; meaning
simply that gold was supenor to the rest, bemg alone a healthy metal all
others being called leprous or disea~ed. '
HISTORY O·F MESMEli.ISM. 9
c~emy was in its zenith, that its use as a remedy for internal
d1scascs became general. At this time, also, we find the
earliest speculations on the extensive diffusion of the magnetic
prin.ciple. Kepler and Descartes obscurely stated, that the
motwns of the planets were governed by magnetic action; but
Paracelsus boldly declared that there existed in all animals a
secret virtue, analogous to that of the magnet, which proceeded
from the planetary bodies. Van Helmont adopted the same
ideas : " the name of magnetism," says he, " is given to that
occult influence which bodies possess on each other, at various
distances, either by attraction or impulsion. . .... There
exists in man a certain energy, w h1ch can act beyond his own
person, according to his will or imagination, and impart virtues,
and exercise a durable influence even on distant obJects."
Pomponatius, in the sixteenth century, and Goclenius,
Kircher, Van Helmont, Maxwell, and many others in the
seventeenth and commencement of the eighteenth, wrote upon
the magnetic cure of diseases.*
§ 9. In assuming the existence of an universal magnetic
agent, by which various actions, chemical and vital, were
thought to be explained, and in admitting that, by the mere
silent but forcible exercise of the will, one can produce
notable effects on other living beings, "even at a considerable
di~tance," these authors certainly anticipated much that has
since been supposed to have originated with Mesmer. Not-
withstanding the objections of the mesmerists to acknowledge
that their art ever had any connexion with that of the mineral
magnetizers there can be no doubt that it owes its origin to the
practices of the latter. The authors cited above were the very
men who employed magnetism and mysticism for the cure of
diseases and wounds-who used the weapon-salve, and powder
of sympathy.t If, then, their theory of a general magnetic
agent be claimed as an anticipation of the doctrines of mes-
merism, it must be reasonable to consider their practice of
magnetism as the foundation of the practice of mesmerism.t
§ 10. In the seventeenth cenlury, there appeared in England
gardener, Levret, an Irish gentleman, Valentine Greatraks,
and a Dr. Streper; and in Italy, Francisco Bagnone, all of
whom were believed to have the power of curing diseases by
touching or stroking with the hand. The most celebrated of
these, Greatraks, is represented by Dr. Rust, Lord Bishop of
Derry, as being "a simple, unpretending man, and sincerely
• Report of the Commission, raris, 1784. Thouret, Recherches et
Doutes, &c., 1784. Isis Rcvelata, 1836. Caldwell on Mesmerism, 1842.
t Paracelsus. and aft<'r him Dr. Fludd, declared that man had a north and
a south pole, and for magnetism to have its full e.trects, the patient must
face the north.
t Mackay's Memoirs of Popular Delusions, 1841.
10 HISTORY OF :MESMERISM.
pious." The same authority informs us, that not only had he
seen, amongst other cures, "dimness cleared and_ d~afnc~s
cured by his touch; ..... running sores of. the kn~g s cv1l
dried up j and kernels brought to a surpurahon by lns hand;
grevious sores, of many months' date, m a few days healed ;
obstructions and stoppages removed;" but even ".canc~rous
knots in the breast dissolved." He adds, however," his patiCnls
often relapse; he fails frequently." A Dr_. Stubbe likewise
avers that Greatraks has been seen to " publicly cure the lame,
the blind, the deaf, the perhaps not unjustly supposed dc~oniacs
and lepers ; besides the asthma, falling sickness, convulsiOn fits,
fits of the mother, old aches and pains." Notwithstanding Mr.
Colquhoun is of opinion that the evidence of these cures is
"far beyond the reach of sophistry," we must be permitted to
express a doubt whether Greatraks could by a touch clear up
an opaque cornea, or dissipate a cancerous tumour. The Lord
Bishop of Derry, when speaking of what he did not understand,
is not superior to any other witness. The physician was evi-
dently credulous, and both, doubtless, had their judgment mis-
led by the popular enthusiasm of the day. St. Evremond,
speaking of Greatraks, observes, " The prophet affirmed that
all diseases were caused by evil spirits." A case of gout and
rheumatism was attributed to " watery spirits ;"hypochondriasis
to an "aerial spirit." "To hear him talk, one would have
imagined that he knew all about spirits-their names, their
rank, their numbers, their employments, and all the functions
they were destined to; and he boasted of being much better
acquainted with the intrigues of demons than he was with the
affairs of men."* Simple, unpretending, pious individual !
§ 11. The demoniacal possessions of the Ursuline nuns at
Loudun, in 1632, for which Urban Grandier was burnt at the
stake, by order of Richelieu, the tremblers of Cevennes, and in
1732, the convulsionaries of St. Medard, have been referred to
by writers on animal magnetism.t The phenomena in all three
cases, presented considerablesimilarity. In the two first, we find
the persons affected had a knowledge of languages they had
never learned, C?•~ld divine the unexpressed thoughts of others,
possessed the sp~n~ of prophecy, and were insensible to pain.
But the most stnk~ng proofs of insensibility to pain were mani-
fet'ted by the fanatics at the tomb of St. Paris, could we believe
Car_re ~e Montgeron's account of their proceedings. Whatever
theu diseases, t~ey were cured. A:ccording to Deleuse, these
persons mesm~n~ed one another Without knowing it ;:j: but it
ts a strange comcidence that almost precisely similar effects had
.. Mackay, op. cit. vol. 3.
t H_istorie ~cademiqu.e du Magn. An., par C. Burdin Jeune et Fred.
Dubo1s, (d'Am1ens,) Par1s, 1841. ' '
l !list. Critique du Magn. An., Paris, 1813.
HISTORY Oi' MESMERISM, 11
been seen a century before amongst the nuns at Loudun, and
were ascribed to demoniacal possession ; the only animal mag-
netism here being the will of the cardinal to have some pretext
for wreaking his vengeance on an innocent man, who had been
so unfortunate as to incur his displeasure.
§ 12. About 1770, Jean Joseph Gassner excited considerable
attention in Germany. Ascribing, like Greatraks, many diseases
to diabolical agency, he first ascertained whether the com-
plaint was a natural or a diabolical one. This he effected by
mvoking the evil spirit to manifest itself. If nothing occurred
after three times making the summons and the sign of the
cross, the disease was decided to be natural, and curable by
ordinary remedies ; but if the demon responded, and agitated
the body with convulsions, then Father Gassner, rubbing his
hands on his girdle, pressing his stole and his cross, invoking
the sacred name of Jesus Christ, and exercising various touch-
ings on the body, (even of a voluptuous and indecent kind, it
is said, on his female patients,) performed some miraculous
cures.* In 1794, a Count Thun appeared at Leipsic, profess-
ing to cure gout, palsy, and other complaints, by the imposition
of his hands. His success was inconsiderable.t
§ 13. It is to Anthony Mesmer that animal magnetism owes
whatever importance is attached to it in the present day. Hell,
a Jesuit priest and professor of astronomy at Vienna, had at-
tained a considerable notoriety by his magnetic treatment of
diseases. His method consisted in the application of magne-
tised steel plates of a peculiar form to the naked body. In 1773,
Mesmer having obtained some magneti>led plates and rods from
Father Hell, proceeded to test their efficacy upon the sick.
His success probably astonished even himself, and by the jeal-
ousy it engendered, led to a quarrel with Father Hell. After
a little experience, Mesmer found that the steel plates and
rods were needless-that he could produce the same effects by
merely drawing his own hands from above downwards in front
of the patient. He now developed his theory, and wrote an
account of it to the various learned societies of Germany. One
alone, the Academy of Berlin, vou.chsafed a reply, and .that
contained so many doubt'> and f1Uenes, that Mesmer dechned
to attend to it. Failing to fulfil the expectations he excited by
promising to cure incu.rable diseases, he. was obli~ed to leave
Vienna. After travellmg through Bavana and Swttzerland, he
returned to the Austrian capital, but meeting with no encour-
agement, left it finally in 1777.
§ 14. In 1778, we find Mesmer established in Paris. Desl.on,
a physician of somP reputation, was the first convert of any Im-
portance. His example, however, was soon followed, and
• Virey, loc. cit. t Willich on Diet, 1799.
12 HISTORY OF :M:ESJI-iERISM.
animal magnetism became in Paris the rage of ih d_
ay. Pam-
phlets innumerable, equally e ·travagant whether _m suppo~t
of, or opposition to, the new doctrines, were publlsl.le~. 1 o
increase his notoriety, Mesmer requested the Royal ~~cwty of
Medicine to appoint a commission to witness and te-;ttl.>: to tl:e
utility of his treatment; hut as he insi ted up~m s?lccll~1g Ius
own patients, and would not permit any exam10a_t10n of them
beforehand, his proposal was not accepted. After ama ·smg
immense wealth, failing to receive the reward he demanded
from the French government, rather_fro1~. the exorJ,_Jtance ?f
his demands than from any want of d1sposit10n on thetr part, m
1781, Mesmer retired to Spa.
§ 15. Three years afterwards the French Government ?-C-
ceded to the wishes of the proselytes of Mesmer, by ordenng
the subject to be submitted to the consideration of tlw Royal
Academy of Sciences and the Royal Society of MediciHe. Des-
Ion superintended the experiments, which were pPrformed
after the method of Mesmer. The commission of the Royal
Academy was composed of Bailly, (the reporter,) Lavoisier,
Le Roy, Franklin, Sallin, Majault, Guillotin, De Boric, and
D'Arcet. Their report was dated August 11, 17 ·-l ; it was con-
cluded as follows:-" The committee having found that the
animal magnetic fluid is not perceptible to any of the senses,
that it exerted no action either upon themselves or upon the
patients who had been submitted to it; being assured that the
pressings and touchings occasion changes rarely favourable in
the animal economy, and emotions always injurious in the
imagination; lastly, having shewn by decisive experiments
that the imagination without magnetism can produce CPnvul-
sions, and that magnetism without imagination can produce
nothing,-they conclude unanimously, as to the f!UCstion of the
existence and utility of animal magnetism, that there is noth.ing
to prove the existence of an animal mag-netic fluid; that a fluid
without an existence is consequently without utility; that the
violent effects which they observed in the public treatment
were attributable to touching, to the imagination runnin()' wild,
(mine en action,) and to the mechanical irritation whicl~ leads
us, in spite of ourselves, to repeat that which makes a for,·ible
i~pre_ss~on on our senses. And, at the same time, they eon-
stder ~~ 1mp_orta_nt t? add that _the touchi!l~s, the repeated action
of the 1magmatwn 1~ prod~~mts the cr.tsts, may be injuri(>Us;
th<l:t t~e ~pectacle ot the cnsts 1s ltkew1se dangerous as a cause
of Imitation; and, consecp1ently, that all public treatment in
which magnetism is employed as a remedy cannot at length
have other ~han hurtf~l effects." In the secret report of the
same comm1tt~e sufficient r~asons are assigned for concluding
tha~ ~he practice of _mesmensm as then carried on, by strongly
excltlllg sexual feeltugs, had a highly immoral tendency. It
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 13
i~ also remarked, t_hat it was a feigned crisis which gave the
s1gnal that determmed many others by imitation.
§ lG. The commissioners appointed by the Royal Society of
Medicine were, Poissonier, Caille, Mauduyt, Andry, and Ju,;-
sieu. The first four of these sent in their report in August ;
and Jussicu-who chose to write a separate one in September,
178·1. The medical committee decided that the doctrine of an
universal magnetic fluid was a mere hypothesis; that this hy-
pothesis was of ancient origin; that there were no physical
proofs of the existence of any such fluid ; that the effects pro-
duced might be accounted for without supposing any such fluid
to exist; that arguments drawn from internal sensations are
cquivocal, often illusory, and consequently always insufficient;
that what is called animal magnetism is the art of exciting con-
vulsions by touching, and the friction of regions of the body the
most irritable, in persons the most sensitive, predisposed to the
result by many and comcomitant causes, which may be varied,
and many of which are of themselves capable of exciting the
strongest convulsions in certain subjects, under certain circum-
stances. That as a pretended means of cure, animal magne-
tism, reduced to irritation of sensitive parts, imitation, and the
effects of the imagination, is at least useless where it produces
neither evacuations nor convulsions, and that it may become
dangerous by maintaining a high degree of tension of the fibres
of those whose nerves are very sensible; that it is very injuri-
ous where it produces the effects improperly termed cTises;
that it is the more dangerous in proportion as these pretended
crises are stronger, the convulsions moreviolent, and the evac-
uations more abundant; and that there are many constitutions
in which the consequences might prove fatal; finally, that a
repetition of the magnetic processes v·;ould be likely to occa-
sion, in persons predisposed, a spasmodic and convulsive habit.
§ 17. Jussieu agreed with his colleagues in very many of
their conclusions, but differed from them in believing that he
saw proofs of the existence of an agent which could pass from
one person to another, and sometimes exert upon the latter a
sensible action. The theory of magnetism, he states, cannot
be admitted, since it has not bee.n developed or supported by
solid proofs. The experiments made to establish the existence
of the magnetic fluid prove only that man produces upon his
fellows a sensihle effect by friction, by contact, and more
rarely by a simple approach at some distance. Th!! action,
attributed to an universal fluid, not demonstrated, is certainly
due to the animal heat existing in bodies, which emanates from
them continually, extends to a certain distance, and can pass
from one body into another. The animal heat is developed, a_ug-
mented, and diminished in a body by moral and phys1cal
can<>es. Judged by its effects, it partakes of the property of
14 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
tonic remedies, and produces, like these, effects salutary or i_n-
juriou , according to the quantity communicated and the Clr·
cumstances under which it is employed.
§ 1 . These reports lessene~ the r.eputation of M~sme~·, but
appeared too late to prevent Ins admirers from entcrm;.J; .mto a
subscription of 100 louis from each to whom .he wou](~ 1mpart
his secret. Such was the eagerness to subscnbe, that m a few
days the sum amounted to 310,000 francs. With this addition
to his fortune, after a vn.in attempt to extr':'ct s.till more, M?s-
mer retired to Switzerland, where he ched 111 comparative
obscurity, in 1 15. Whatever opinion we may form of his
talents, there can be no doubt that Mesmer was disingenuous
and mercennry in the extn~me. A literary plagiarist, he boasted
of the originality of his doctrines; and, sacrificint?;. everything
to avarice, he vaunted his disinterestedness and plulanthropy.
§ 19. When the fame of l\Iesmer was beginning to decline
in France, England had the honour of ministering to Lhe wants
of a few itinerant magnetizers; but the subject nev~r excited
the general sensation which it had done in Paris. In 1778, a
Dr. Maineduc, formerly a pupil of Mesmer and Deslon, gave
public lectures at Bristol, and is said to have realized lOO,OOOl.,
by the practice of magnetism. A Mr. Holloway and M~. and
Mrs. De Loutherbourg were also successful speculators 111 the
same lime. In 1778, Perkins, an American surgeon, practising
in Lo11don, invented and obtained a patent for his "metallic
tractors."
§ 20. "The history of Perkinism,"' it is said, "and of its
<.tlleged refutation by Dr. Haygarth. affords strong collaternl
evidence in confirmation of the reality of animal magnetism."*
The tractors were merely small pieces of steel strongly mag-
netised. They were applied over the aflected part, and gently
moved about, touching the skin. Gout, rheumatism, toothache,
palsy, were a few of the diseases cured hy the tractnrs. These
tractors, however, being five £4Uineas a pair, were beyond the
means of the poor, nnd as Perkins was a quaker, that sect sub-
scribed a large sum and built the Perkinean Institutiont in which
all con;ers "':ere magnetis.ed free of cost. Magnetism proving thus
efficac1 us m the cure, 1t was concluded that it would not be
les so in the prevention of disease. H nee, many intellectual
bnt gouty gentlemen wore map;nels suspended round the neck,
for t~e purpose o[ wardmg off an attack. Among those who
publicly vouched for the truth of the wonderfnl cures per-
formed by mea~s of the tractors, were, eight university pro-
fessors: four beJ~g pro~essor.s of me?icine; twenty clergymen,
ten bemg D.D. s; th1rty-s1x medical men, nineteen being
.. Isis Revelata, vol. i. p. 219. t Mackay, op. cit., vol. iii.
HI!!TORY OF MESMERISM. 15
M.D's.* Incredulous in the face of this goodly array of testi-
mony, Dr. Haygarth, of Bath, and his friend Mr. Richard
Smith, of Bristol had some tractors made of wood, painted and
shaped so as exactly to resemble the real ones. These were
public~y tried, with all due solemnity at first, upon five hospi-
tal patients. Of these, four were affected with chronic rheu-
matism in the ankle, knee, wrists, and hip. The fifth had
chronic gout. All were much relieved. One was sure
that his knee felt warmer and thought he could walk across
the room. He did so, although he had previously been un-
able to stir. The following day, the real metallic tractors
were applied, with results precisely similar. Mr. Smith
applied the wooden tractors to a patient with rheumatism of
the shoulder, so severe.as to prevent him from raising his hand;
in four minutes the man was able to lift his hand. On the
contrary, in another patient the fictitious tractors caused so
much increase of suffering that he would on no account submit
to a repetition of the operation. "The tractors," say the mes-
merists, "being merely conductors, it was of no essential con-
sequence whether they were made of metal, or (as Dr. Hay-
garth's) of any other conducting substance."
§ 21. The pupils of Mesmer founded societies called " So-
cieties of Harmony" in most of the large towns in France.
Their professed object was the experimental investigation of
animal magnetism ; but this, in many instances, was a mere
cloak, under which the libertine sought the gratification of his
passions. Amongst the members of one of these societies, and
likewise one of the subscribers for Mesmer's secret, was the
Marquis de Puysegur. In March, 1'784, having magnetised
his gardener, he found that his patient was capable of holding
a conversation whilst wrapt in magnetic sleep. He found,
moreover, that the patient not only understood the words, but
even the unexpressed thoughts, of his master ; and would an-
swer with equal clearness the intended question, whilst it was
yet a mere suggestion of the mind, as after it had been con-
veyed to him in language. This was the origin of the so-
called magnetic somnambulism.
§ 22. Contemporary with the Marquis was the founder of
~mother sect of magnetisers. The Chevalier de Barherin mes-
merised by prayer, and is said to have effected cures quite as
remarkable as any reported by the magnetisers. The Barbe-
rinists, or spiritualists, established schools at Lyons and Ostend,
and increased rapidly in number, especially in Sweden and
Germany. Not only could they induce somna!llbulism ~y the
mere effort of the soul (the will,) hut also clmrvoyance m the
highest degree, and were the first to propound, that when the
.. Quarterly Review, Dec. 1844, art. 8.
16 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
operator had once affected a patient, his will could afterw~rds
influence the latter, though separated by hundreds of m1le~.
"The clairvoyant," says one of them, "is, the~, a pure ~m­
mal, without any admixture of matter. (! ) H1s observatwns
are tho e of a spirit. He is similar to God. His eye pene-
trates all the secrets of nature."*
§ 23. In Germany, animal magnetism was eagerly adopted,
and early claimed the attention of some men of eminence. In
the hands of Sprengel, Reil, Gmelin, Kluge, and others, its
wonders developed themselves to a greater extent than evrr,
and there is scarcely a marvel, how ver incrediblr, thut might
not find a parallel in the annals of German animal magnetism. t
In former days, did a student desire to benefit by communi-
cation with any philosopher who had, <:~lbeit in pos ession of
the elixir vitce, "shuffled off this mortal coil," an incantation
would raise him; or, should the master of the ceremonies down
below refuse to permit such an amount of attention to the magic
summons, an epistolary correspondence was allowed, such, for
example, as Parac:elsus boasted that he regularly kept up with
Galen in the shades beneath. The German modification of
animal magnetism enables its votaries to hold communion with
disembodied spirits with fat les5 trouble.
§ 24. In 1817, in Prussia, the practice of animal magnetism
was by legal enactment restricted to medical men. In 1818, at
Berlin, a prize was offered by the Academy of Sciences for the
best treatise ou the subject, and a hospital, containing a hun-
dred bed~, established for the mesmeric treatment of disease.
This was under the superintendence of Wolfart. In Russia, a
committee appointed to investigate the subject concluded that
animal magnetism was an important agent.
§ 25. In France, public attention had been re-excited by the
work of Deleuse.:t: Bertrand accounts for the long time which
had elapsed without animal magnetism receiving the notice
usually paid in France to a new discovery, by the political
events of the period, which, he states, destroyed in most minds
the calm necessary for serious scientific observation. To this,
Burdin and Dubois reply, that the era of the Revolution was
precisely that at which science flourished in their country be-
yond all rre~eden.t. The Abbe Faria was the first magnetiser
of. celeb_nty ~~ th1s n~w ep~ch of French. mesmerism, (1814.)
D1spensmg w1th mampulatwns of every kmd, he induced mag-
netic sleep by the mere word of command, and the authorita-
tive exercise of his will. The press once more teemed with
• Mackay, op. cit.
t See Forbes' Medical Review for April 1839.
t Histoire Critique, &c., 1813. '
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 17
periodicals, pamphlets, and larger works on the subject, in
rapid succession.
§ 26. In 1820, on the proposal of M. Husson, Dupotet was
allowed to magnetise patients in the Hotel Dieu.* In 1825,
Foissac wrote to the Royal Academy of Medicine, to request
their attention once more to animal magnetism, announcing
that he would produce " somnambulists, who, by passing the
hand successively over the head, chest, and abdomen of a pa-
tient, could discover immediately his disease, and the pains
and various alterations to which it gave rise; could point out
whether a cure were possible, and if so, whether easy or diffi-
cult, near at hand or distant, and what remedies would attain
the end by the most prompt and certain way." ''My somnam-
bulists," he adds, " do not always deviate from the principles
acknowledged in sound medicine. I will go farther, their in-
spirations partake of the genius which animated Hippocrates!"
To this the Academy made no reply. On Foissac addressing a
second and more modest letter, however, a committee was ap-
pointed to consider the propriety of acceding to his request.
§ 27. MM. Pariset, Marc, Burdin, sen., Adelon, and Husson,
(the reporter,) were the members appointed. On Dec. 13th,
1825, M. Husson read their report. The main object through-
out is to weaken the force of the conclusions of the commis-
sions of 1784. The reporter dwells upon the changeableness
of medical doctrine ; reminds us that the circulation of the
blood was once declared impossible, vaccination considered as
a crime, enormous wigs believed to be conducive to health, and
antimony expunged from the Materia Medica; that the magne-
tism of 1784 was essentially different from that to which they
now desire to direct the attention of the Academy ; that the
doctrines of Mesmer differ materially from those of the som-
nambulist:l; that as magnetism had attracted considerable notice,
anu been practised by the profession in the north of Europe,
il does not accord with "l'amour propre national" to treat the
subject with neglect; that it is the duty of the academy to re-
move the practice of magnetism out of the hands of charlatans,
and those ignorant of medicine, who abuse the remedy, and
make it an object of lucre and speculation. He concludes by
ad\·ising that a special committee be appointed to study and
examine animal magnetism.
§ 28. The discussion upon this report occupied three meet-
ings. On its conclusion, 35 members were in favour of, 25
against, the nomination of a committee. The committee was
appointed on February 23th, 1826, and consisted of MM. Le-
roux, Bourdois, Double, Magendie, Guersant, Laennec, Tillaye,
• At the SalpHrif.re, Bicetre, LaCharite, and Val de Grace, also, mag·
netic experiments were carried on.-[Dupotet's Introduction.
lJ
18 HISTORY OF 1\:lES:MERIS:M.
Marc, Itard, Fouquier, and Gueneau de Mussy. In c?nse-
quence of the retirement of Laennec, M. llu-son was appomted
a member, and afterwards, the reporter of the co~mitte~ Six
only of the members had previously declared the1r .sentiment~
in the discussion which preceded; and Husson's btas toward:~
animal macrnctism was notorious. Guersant, Itard, and Marc,
were in fa~our of the doctrines. The first of these slated that
he had himself succeeded in producing magnetic phenomena.
Magendie wanted to see proofs. Laennec had t~·ied t? mag-
netise but could not. Double had made magnet1sm h1s per-
sonal ~tudy, but whether as magnetise or magnetiser, could
never elicit any phenomena.
§ 29. The report was read June 21st, 1831.* M.M. Double
and Macrendie declined to affix their signatures, as they had
had no ~hare in making the experiments. The following are
selected from the numerous conclusions with which this
lengthy report terminates :-
2. On many occasions, the will, the fixed look, have been
found sufficient to produce the magnetic phenomena, even
without the knowledge of the patient.
5. In general, magnetism does not act upon persons in a
sound state of health.
6. Neither does it act upon all sick persons.
7. There are sometimes effects manifested, which are due to
surrounding physical agencies, (heat, &c.,) and to moral causes,
(as hope, fear, prejudice,) finally, to "imagination, which has
so much influence on some minds, and on certain organization."
8. A certain number of well-established physiological and
therapeutic phenomena appeared to depend upon magnetism
alone, and were never produced withont its application.
9. The real effects of magnetism are very various. Agita-
tion, calmness, quickened respiration and circulation, slight
convulsive emotions "resembling electric shocks,'' numbness,
heaviness, somnolency, and, in a small number of cases, som-
nambulism.
11. During the state of somnambulism, (of which they indu-
bitably prove the existence,) clairvoyance, intuition, internal
prevision, insensibility, and sudden and considerable increase
of stren~th.
15. \Ve can not only act upon the mao-netised person (by
volition alone,) but even place him in a co~plete state of som-
nam~ml~sm, and bring.hin: out of it with?ut his knowledge, out
of h1s s1ght, at .a ce:rtam ~Istance, and w1th doors intervening.
17. M<l:gnetrsm 1s as I.nte.nse, and a<> speedily felt, at a dis-
tance of SIX feet, as of SIX mches ; and the phenomena de-
veloped are the same in both cases.
.. This report is given in full in Isis Revelata, vol. ii.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 19
18. The action at a distance does not appear capable of being
exerted with success, excepting upon individuals who have
been already magnetised.
§ 30. After Husson's report, the subject seems to have been
totally neglected by the French Academy until towards the
close of 183G, when there appeared in the public papers an
account of a case in which a tooth had been extracted without
pain, whilst the patient was in a state of magnetic somnambu-
li~m. This was authenticated by M. Oudel, a member of the
Academy. The patient was a sensitive woman, aged 25, who
had suffered severely from toothache for several days. The
bare idea ot having the tooth extracted almost threw her into
convulsions. M. Hamard magnetised her, and to test her in-
sensibility, she was pricked with a pin, and one of her fingers
held in thP- flame of a candle for a few seconds. She mani-
fested no sign of pain, but conversed indolently with M. Ha-
mard. At the moment that M. Oudet extracted the tooth, her
head appeared to shrink a little from the hand of the operator,
and a feeble cry was heard. The patient denied having felt
pain. A lengthened discussion ensued.
§ 31. Roux gave two instances-the excision of numerous ex-
crescences and the removal of a cancerous breast, in which, the
attention being much arrested, there were none of the usual
signs of suffering. Moreau mentioned that the patient from
whom J. Cloquet had removed a cancerous breast without pain
during her magnetic somnambulism, had predicted that there
was disease in her liver. She died on the nineteenth or twen-
tieth day after the operation. On examination, the liver was
found to be perfectly healthy, but in the lungs vomicre full or
pus. Velpeau adduced another instance of error in prevision.
§ 32. A commission was once more appointed. It com-
prised MM. Raux, (the president,) Bouillaud, H. Cloquet,
Emery, Pelletier, Caventon, Cornac, Oudet, and Dubois,
(d'Amiens, the reporter.) M. Berna had written (Feb. 1837,)
to the Academy, offering to prove, by persons" at his own dis-
posal," facts ~onclusive in ~upport of animal magnetism. He
stipulated w1th the comm1ttee that he would produce evi-
dence of
a. Somnambulism.
b. Insensibility to pricking and tickling.
c. Restoration of sensibility at will.
d. At his mental order, there should be loss of the power of
motion.
e. At his mental order, the patient should cease to answer
m the midst of conversatiort; and, at his will, should
answer again.
f. The last experiment should be repeated, the operator be-
ing separated by a door.
20 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
g Awakening. .
h: After the mental order shall have been givc!l m t~c state
of somnambulism, insensibility l~all rcmam dunng the
wakino- condition ; and the patient shall_ lose andre-
cover ~ensibility at the will of the magnetiscr.
§ 33. On July 17th, 1 37, the rerort ~as read. ~fter giv·
ing a sketch of the previous acadcm1callust.ory of ammal mag-
netism, the reporter remarks, that the com_
mlttee had pr_oceeded
'to their investigation, some preposs_cssed f?r, ot~1e_rs agamst, the
subject ; but that they were unammous m arnvmg at the fol-
lowing conclusi0ns :- . .
1. That no satisfactory proof had been gtve!l of the ex1st~nce
of a particular state, called the state of magnetic somnambulism.
2. Nor of the abolition of sensibility.
3. Nor of power in the magnetiser to restore, by the mere
effort of his will, sensibility either locally or generally.
4. The operator failed equally to prove the abolition and res-
toration of the power of movement.
5. The experiment" e" in the programme(§ 32,) was tried
and failed.
6. Transposition of the sense of sight, and
7. Vision through opaque substances, were both attempted
and equally without success.
§ 34. At the ensuing meeting, Husson read an address
criticising the repOI't. The title, he observes, ought to have
been "Report of Experiments made on two Somnambulists."
There were many omissions in the historical part. It was
wrong to state anything that could render an industrious and
estimable colleague (Berna) ridiculous (!); the experiments
were not new, anrl these negative experiments could not destroy
the positive facts reported by himself, as observed by a former
commission. He concluded by proposing that this report be
refused. The Academy declined even to consider his propo-
sition.
§ 35. Considering clairvoyance as the only unquestionable
proof of magnetic somnambulism, Burdin made a proposal to
the Academy that he would award a prize of 3000 francs to
the person who should read without the assistance of his eyes,
of light, and of touch. The proposal was accepted; the
money placed in the hands of a notary; the prize ordered to
remain open for two years, and a committee of seven members
of the Academy appointed to conduct the examination.
.§ 36. The c_or_nmittee received many applications. Dr.
Biermann, physician to the court of Hanover, writes to inquire
whet~er the attestation of. three _or four magistrates would be
sufficient, as he knew a ~1ttle g1rl, named Christel Largrave,
who for some years had g1ven proofs of possessing a singular
lucidity. When her soul W<bS wide awake, (" au moment du
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 21
plus grand reveil de l'ftme,") she could read manuscripts in
divers languages, notwithstanding she only understood, in her
natural state, German, her mother tongue. Dr. Bergeron
states, that he knows a young servant girl who can read with-
out the assistance of her eyes, not only during magnetic but
also during natural sleep. M. Ricard, of Bordeaux, affirms
that more than a thousand magnetisers coul!J shew somnam-
bulists who could prove what was required; and as he himself
has many "sujets de perfection," he wishes to know the con-
ditions of the prize. Dr. Despines, of Aix, in Savoy, writes,
that a young person, named Estelle, had shewn him " more
than five hundred times, more than a thousand times, indeed,"
the transposition of the senses. She could magnetise herself
at pleasure.
~ 37. M. Pigeaire, of Montpelier, in a long epistle, describes
a prodigy as a somnambulist in the person of his daughter.
The discovery of her talent was accidental. The mother made
some passes ala Dupotet, at her little girl. On this first essay,
in less than ten minutes the somnambulism was complete.
She named the contents of a closed box, previously unknown
t0 her ; and placed en rapport with a Madame Bonnard, this
young lady, aged eleven, declared that Madame was not
enciente, and that her accoucheur, who stated the contrary,
was deceived. "When a magnetised object," writes her
father, "is placed before her, she is rivetted and fascinated by
it, and cannot by any effort of the will dispel the charm.
During her sleepwakin.g not a drop of water, not a single com-
fit, or bit of S\lgar, can she swallow until it has been magne-
tised." On one occasion she awoke herself out of the magnetic
slumber by making passes before herself with a sleeve of one
of her father's coats, crying at the same time, "Reveillez-vous
done." Being consulted during her somnambulism as to the
conditions on which she would shew clairvoyance, she replies
that her eyes may be bandaged so that she cannot see with
them, that a plate of glass must be placed over the words she
is to read, and that she must feel the surface of the glass with
her fingers.
§ 38. To these terms Burdin did not object, though they
were contrary to the programme he had drawn up. M. Pigeaire
accvrdingly, brought his dau~hter to Paris, but to the surprise
of the committee refused to allow Mademoiselle to be made
"temporarily blind" by any other means than a bandage which
he himself would furnish ; the book to be read must be placed,
not on a level with the bandage, but on the girl's knee. The
committee, having on examination found the bandage very in-
efficient, proposed all the effectual modes of blindfolding they
could devise, but to each the father made a decided objection,
alleging as a reason for not covering the lower part of the face,
22 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
that VISIOn might be effected through the medium of the
branches of the fifth pair of nerves, or of the facial nerves.
Annoyed by the evident want of faith displayed by the com-
mittee, M. Pigeaire, with all the dignity of injured innocence,
asks if they suspect his little girl, and declines all investigation.
§ 39. Professor Gerdy, who had been present at several of
Mademoiselle's performances in public, as well as at some of
those of Callyxte and Prudence, (t\YO other clairvoyants,) satis-
fied himself, from the length of time required for success at all,
from the trifling degree of succss when obtained, from the rest-
lessness of the clairvoyant, and her constant efTorts to displace
the coverings over her eyes, and from the frequent failures,
that these persons never read words placed before them, except
~e rays of light could reach the eye beneath the lower margin
of the bandage.
§ 40. In October, 1837, Dr. Hublier, of Provence, writes in
behalf of Mademoiselle Emelie, but notwithstanding the
glowing terms in which he mentions the clairvoyance of this
lady, and her wish to obtain the Burdin prize, for one reason
or another, the allotted two years were allowed to expire with-
out her appearing to prove her powers before the committee.
To afford every chance, M. Burdin then extended the term for
another year, and altered the original conditions to the follow-
ing:-" Bring me any person, magnetised or not magnetised,
asleep, or awake, who can read in broad daylight, through an
opaque body, whether cotton, horsehair, or silk, placed six
inches from the person, who can read even through a simple
fold of paper, and that person shall have three thousand
francs." Still Dr. Hublier hesitated, sometimes because his
"excellente somnambule" was practising to attain the requi-
site perfection, sometimes because she was indisposed, and so
on. As the time of grace grew near its close, Hublier craved
another year's delay. This being refused, he sent his protege
to M. Frappart for a preparatory trial.
§ 41. On the first occasion of testing her clairvoyance, after
a futile attempt for two hours, Emelie declared she was too
much fatigued by her journey. On the second, she complained
that headache and oppression at the stomach retarded her
lucidity.* On the third, after two hours of study, she said shl:l
could read the word "phrenology;" the word was "phthisis."
On the fourth, she read " CEuvres de Cieeron ;" the words wer('
" L'Histoire d'Angleterre." She explained these mistakes b}
stating that she was confused by seeing all the books in the
library, and that she mistook one for another. To obviate this
"' During her magnetic somnambulism, Frappart spoke to her about
phrenology; he "fingered her head," and proposed to take a cast; to this
she consented, and when she awoke it was done. ..
HISTORY OF MF.SMERISM. 23
inconvenience, the next (fifth) trial was made in another room.
As soon as Mademoiselle told M. Frappart that she was asleep,
he placed a book on a chair, four feet behind her, said he was
obliged to leave her, but that as soon as she had satisfied her-
self that she was clairvoyant, she must ring the bell. On his
return, she described the size of the book, the colour of the
binding, and letter by letter spelt out its title correctly. On
the sixth trial, Frappart enters when Emelie rings. She suc-
ceeds as well as on the previous occasion, and, moreover, re-
peats a line correct from a page to which she directs
Monsieur to refer.
§ ,12. M. Frappart now writes to ask Hublier to be present
at the nextexperiment. MM. Londe, Teste, Amedee Latour,
Douillet, Brehler and Carpentier, Hublier and Frappart, ac-
cordingly, are present. The others being concealed, so that they
could watch through small holes made in the doors of the
apartment, Frappart enters, and reminding Emelie that this is
her last trial, desires her to ring the bell, when she is in the
state of lucid somnambulism. In about five minutes the bell
sounds ; Mademoiselle says she sleeps; a book is placed as
usual, and Frappart retires. Six times was this clairvoyant
seen to walk to the book and carefully examine it, and also tl1
make pencil-notes of what she read. At length she rings thil.
bPll. Messieurs enter, all except M. Londe, who retains his
post of concealment in front of Emelie. Mademoiselle de-
scribes the book, recites certain passages from it, and is seen
by M. Londe to look at her notes. Hublier writes an acknow-
ledgment that for four years he had been deceived by "une
maitresse femme."
§ 43. In September, 1840, the Academy received a letter
from M. Teste, stating that he would produce a somnambulist
who could read writing through the walls of a box of either
pasteboard or wood. As the phenomenon was not constant,
and sometimes very transient, Teste requested the committee
to be present at the precise moment previously fixed by the
somnambulist herself in one of her sleeps. At the hour thus
appointed, MM. Husson, Louis, Chomel, Gerardin, Dubois,
(d'Amiens,) and Double, attend. M. Teste shews them a
card-board box, and several scraps of paper with written and
printed characters on them. The committee, however, pre-
fer one of the boxes with which they had provided themselves.
The somnambulist, an agreeable-looking young brunette, is
then magnetized by Teste, about twenty passes being made.
She is informed of the direction of the lines and of the letters
on the scrap of paper contained in the box. In a little time
she declares that she can see the inside of the box, and shall
be able to read the writing in ten minutes. An hour, how-
ever, elapses ere she can see the words. She now states that
HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
there are two lines, and she can read the words " Nous
sommes," but cannot make out the rest. On opening the box
in the presence of Teste, the lines are found to be six in num-
ber, and to contain neither "nous" nor "sommes" in any of
them. The Burdin prize was never awarded, and with its
withdrawal closed the connexion of the French Royal
Academy of Medicine with animal magnetism.
§ 44. In 1S28 and 1829, Mr. Chenevix performed many
mesmeric experiments in the Dublin and London hospitals,
before some of the most eminent men in he profession. But,
notwithstanding this, and the publication of Mr. Colquhoun's
learned work in 1833; the subject excited no general interest
in England, until the visit of Dupotet in 1837. M. or Baron
Dupotet met with little success at first; but under the patron-
age of Dr. Elliotson, who, in conjunction with Dupotet, per-
formed a series of experiments upon patients in University
College Hospital, he attracted considerable public attention.
On the occurrence of some disagreement, Dupotet returned to
Paris, and wrote a book abusing Dr. Elliotson, who, it seems,
had refused to lend him money. His character is thus de-
scribed by one of his own craft :-In truth, he was an innocent
sort of man, very weak, and of little information, and he knew
no more of mesmerism than the most superficial facts. He,
however, did good to the cause for a time, and then could do
no more, and would have been detrimental had he stayed."*
§ 45. The notoriety obtained by the two girls named Okey,
the wonder excited by their performances, their exposure by
Mr. Wakley, and the resignation of Dr. Elliotson as physician
to the University College Hospital, are within the recollection
of every reader.
§ 46. In 1841, M. Lafontaine made a tour through Great
Britain, exhibiting his somnambulists in every town sufficiently
Large to remunerate him. His example was speedily followed
by native itinerant lecturers, and very general attention has
;ince been directed to the subject. Within the prese.nt year
(1844) the metropolis was invaded by two Frenchmen, MM.
Marcillet and Alexis. By exhibiting at five guineas per sitting,
they were rapidly reaping a golden harvest, when the ordinary
clearsightedness of an eminent physician proving more than
equal to the mesmeric clairvoyance of Alexis, their career was
mddenly checked, and the public mind once more disabused. t
At Manchester, a Mr. Hawes publicly exhibited his boy
"Jack," who had then been in the mesmeric state continuously
for three weeks ; and who, it was asserted, could read through
• Zoist, vol. i. p. 90.
t See the Exposure, &c, by John Forbes, M.D., F.R.S., in the London
Lancet and Medical Gazette, for August, 1844.
ni.5TORY OF MESMl!:RISM, 25
his forehead, when his eyes were covered with adhesive plas-
ter. After several exhibitions, it was proved by medical men
present, that "Jack" certainly could see to a limited extent,
but not until he had, by moving his eyelids, loosened the
plasters sufficiently to assist the visual power of his forehead
by ordinary sight. Mr. Hawes refunded the admission money
he had received.
§ 47. At the present time, mesmerism presents itself under
two additional modifications-hypnotism and mesmero-phre-
nology. Hypnotism, the mental offSpring of Mr. Braid, a sur-
geon at Manchester, differ3 from mesmerism as previously
known, in not requiring the assistance of a second person to
produce the effects. Mesmero-phrenology, phreno-magnetism,
or phrenopathy, i;; a combination of the most startling parts of
mesmerism with the least probable ones of phrenology. The
discovery of this hybrid is claimed by many individuals, but
probably originated in the remark of a somnambulist, made
twenty years ago, that her magnetiser must rub her organ of
place, and her organ of colour, to elicit more of the informa-
tion which she believed it to be the function of these cerebral
organs to supply.*
DIFFERENT MODES OF ' OPERATING, AND EFFECTS STATED TO
HAVE BEEN PRODUCED.
§ 48. The hand and the eye, being the principal instruments
in the mute eloquence of gesture, are naturally employed
whenever we desire to arrest attention and excite emotion.
The imposition of the hand, moreover, associated as it is with
the miracles of our Saviour, and of the prophets of old, has
something of a sacred character attached to it. Accordingly,
we find it has often been practised by those who wished to
exert a personal influence upon their fellow men, and is gen-
erally understood to be the outward sie;n of this influence
being exercised. These circumstances have not been over-
looked by the animal magnetists. ·
§ 49. Mesmer's first essays, with his magnetised steel plates,
TPI"jlJlre no description here: if worthy of more than mere
mP-ntwn at all, they belong to mineral rather than to animal
magnrtism. His mode of procedure, when in the height of
his f'Plebrity was the following:- .
~ :,o. The baquet.-An oaken tub, from four to five feet ID
rFameter, and a foot in depth, covered with a lid in two pieces,
constituted the baquet. At the bottom were placed bottles,
'w Mr. Atkimon refers to this in the Ph reno-Magnet. The pa.tient a.puded
to was TJroba.hlv the one magnetized hy Wolfart, and mentloned m the
Brituh aud .l<'ore1gn Medical Review, loc. cit., p. 33:
26 HISTORY OF :MESMERISM.
with their necks directed towards the centre of the tub, so as
to form converging rays. In the centre, other bottles were
laid> with their necks in the opposite direction, ~orming di-
verging rays. All were corked, and full of magnetised water.
There were usually many superimposed layers of these bot-
tles ; the machine was then at high pressure, (" a h~ute pres-
sion.") The space between the bottles was filled With water,
to which pounded glass and iron filings were occasi?nally
added. The low-pressure baquets, however, were made Without
water. The lids were pierced with holes for the pa3sage of
iron rods, bent, moveable, and of different lengths, so as to be
readily applied to different regions of the body. Through a
ring in the lid was passed a cord with which the patients
surrounded their ailing limbs, carefully avoiding to make a
knot. Affections disagreeable to the sight, as wounds, ulcers,
and deformities, were (convenientlyenough) not admitted under
treatment. The patients were placed in rows around the tub, in
such a way as to touch each other by the hands, arms, knees, and
feet. A cord, surrounding the whole number, kept them in
their places. Each applied one of the flexible iron rods to
the supposed seat of disease. Meanwhile, gentle strains of
music, and occasionally the voice of a concealed opera singer,
stole upon the ear ; the air was redolent of the most delicate
perfumes; the magnificent saloon, surrounded with mirrors,
which reflected on every side the attitudes and gestures of the
patients, was so artfully arranged as only to admit of a dim
twilight. After these magician-like arrangements had been
allowed a sufficient time to produce their effect upon the
minds of the patients, who were instructed to preserve the
most rigid silence, the assistant magnetisers entered. These
were tne handsomest and most robust young men that Mesmer
could select, (" les plus beaux, les plus jeunes et les plus
robustes.") Each carried in his hand a magnetising rod about
a foot in length. Their duty was, to heighten the effect of the
magnetic tub by touching, handling, pressing, squeezing, and
earnest gazing, maintaining still the most perfect silence. Af-
ter the lapse of an hour or more thus occupied, Mesmer him-
self, arrayed in a robe of lilac silk, and with a grave, majestic
air, for the first time entered the room. The less agitated, he
calmed immediately by a touch of his magnetic rod. Upon the
more excited he acted by taking their hands, and so applying
his own, that their thumbs and fingers respectively were in
contact, at the same time gazing intensely into their eyes,
(" en rapport,") or by making rapid movements with his open
hands at. a distance fro~ the patient, (" agrand courant,") or
by crossmg and uncrossmg h1s arms with extreme rapidity,
(" les passes en definitive.")
§51. The conducting rod answered equally well, whether
RISTOR Y OF MESMERISM. 27
made of glass, steel, gold, or silver. One might magnetise with
a cane, but then "the pole is changed, and the head, not the
point, must be used."-Virey.
§52. Eff~cts.-The femal~s, always the most impression-
able, exper~en~ed first, yawnmgs and stretchings ; their eyes
closed; thetr hmbs tottered; they felt threatened with suffo-
cation. The sound of the harmonica, t.he strains of the piano,
and the chorus of the singers, appeared to increase the con-
vulsions. Bursts of sardonic laughter, piteous moanings, floods
of tears, burst out on every side. The body was contorted
with tetanic spasms; the breathing became rattling; all the
symptoms more startling. At this moment, the actors in this
strange scene ran against one another, amazed and raving ;
they con~ratulated each other, embracing with joy, or repelling
with horror. The most excited were removed to another room
prepared for the purpose. In this, the chamber of the crises,
the choking females were unlaced, and suffered to knock their
heads against the padded walls, or to roll about on the cush-
ioned floor.-Delrieu.
§ 53. The method of Deslon was very similar, but the
committee* especially remarked that many patients were
magnetised chiefly by the application of the operator's hands,
and by the pressure of his fingers over the hypochondria
and lower part of the body-an application frequently con-
tinued for a lon~ time, sometimes for several hours. ~Vater
containing cream of tartar was handed round for the pa-
tients to drink.
§ 54. The effects induced varied greatly. Some were calm,
tranquil, and experienced nothing; others coughed, expecto-
rated, perceived some slight pain, heat-local or universal,-
and perspired freely ; others again were agitated and con-
vulsed. The convulsions were remarkable for their num-
ber, their force, and their duration. As soon as one patient
became convulsed, many others speedily followed the example.
The committee saw an instance in which the convulsions lasted
for more than three hours. These fits were attended with
expectoration uf thick, viscous fluid,~ reed out by the violence
of the efforts. Occasionally there were streaks of blood, and
in one young man this was noticed to occur to a great ex-
tent. The fits were char::~cterized by rapid, involuntary
movements of all the limbs, and of the entire body, by
chokincr, working of the hypochondri1 and epigastrium, wild-
ness agd rolling of the eyes, piercing cries, tears, hiccup,
and immoderate laughter. They were preceded and followed
by a state of languor and reverie, by a sort of abstraction, and
even drowsiness. The slightest nm·se caused starting, and it
• The first French committee
28 HISTORY OF MESMERISM,
was noticed that a change in the time and tune of the airs
played on the piano affected the patients ; so that the more
lively the air, the greater the agitation and the stron0 er the
convulsions. It was surprising to view the profound repose
of one part of the patients and the agitation of others. The
patients fell one against another, smiled, spoke toge~her affec-
tionately, and wutually mitigated each other's cnses. All
were under the control of the magnetiser. With a sort of
supineness they attenJed to his voice, look, or sign. The
committee could not but recognise, in the constant effects, a
great power which affected the patients, and of which the
magnetiser appeared to be the depositary.*
§ 55. A female patient of Deslon's, when recovering from
the crisis, meeting the eye of the person who had magnetised
her, was fixed for three-quarters of an hour. She declared
that for the next three days she was constantly followed by
that gaze ; asleep and awake, she saw the eye before her.
§56. Mdlle. B-- was thrown into the magnetic crisis in
three minutes, when she was aware of the operation ; but on
another occasion, when the operator was concealed behind a
paper door, and she was ignorant of his presence, she was
magnetised for thirty minutes without any effect. To prove
that this failure was owin~ neithe:r to want of susceptibility
on the part of the patient, nor of power on that of the mag-
netiser, the latter came from behind his screen and renewed
the processes, observing precisely the same distance from his
patient that he had done previously. In about three minutes,
the patient felt uncomfortable, and choked, and experienced
successively hiccup, clashing of the teeth, oppression at the
throat, severe headache, restlessness, and pains in the loins.
She struck her feet against the floor, stretched back her arms,
and writhed about, "in a word, the convulsive crisis was com-
plete, and perfectly characteristic." All this occurred within
twelve minutes.t In the first trial, which failed, the patient
was magnetised at opposite poles, according to the prevailing
doctrines and method; in the second, which succeeded, she
was magnetised wrongly at direct poles, and therefore ought
not to have been affected at all! The magnetiser observed
aloud that he must put an end to the crisis, but continued
the same magnetising passes that induced it. Nevertheless,
the patient became calmer ; the heat and pain in the head
disappeared ; the uneasiness left, successively, the che;;t, the
stomach, and the arm; and in three minutes the patient felt as
usual, quite well.
§ 57. Jumelin contended that the animal magnetic fluid was
identical with animal heat, discarded the whole apparatus ot
.. Rapport dea Commissaires, &c. Par M. Bailly, 1'184. t Ibid.
HISTORY OF MESMEIUSM. 29
the baquet, paid no attention to any distinction of poles, and
operated by pointing with the fir.gers and iron rods, and by
applying the hands. Eight men and two women were thus
operatad on without experiencing anything. At length, a
female, magnetised without contact, said that she perceived
heat. M. Jumelin extending his hand, and spreading his
fingers out before the face of the patient, she declared that she
saw as it were a flame, which proceeded from the ends of his
fingers; magnetised over the stomach, she felt heat there; over
the back, heat in that region; she then stated that she felt an
increased heat in the whole of the body, and that her head
ached. After bandaging her eyes, the stumach and back were
again magnetised: the patient now felt heat only in the head,
pain in the right eye, then in the left eye and ear. Her eyes
were now uncovered, and the operator's hands applied over the
hypochondria : she felt heat beneath his hands, and in a few
minutes became faint. Recovered from this, the eyes were
again blindfolded, and M. Jumelin requested the committee,
in writing, to preserve silence, but to give the patient to un-
derstand that he was magnetising her. No one acted upon her,
either near or from a distance, yet effects ensued precisely as
before. She said that she felt the same heat, the same pain
in the eyes and in the ears, and still more of the heat in the
back and loirts. In a quarter of an hour, Jumelin really did
operate upon the stomach and back without contact, but the
patient did not perceive it. The magnetic sensations were
lessened, instead of being augmented; the headache ceased,
and the heat of the back and loins left her.*
§ 58. Deslon asserted that a tree or portion of water might
be endued with the power of magnetising, but on making the
trial, patients fell into a crisis under the wrong tree, and after
drinking plain, non-magnetised water, and occasionally were
demagnetised by partaking of water that had purposely been
magnetised. t
§ 50. The medical committee describe the mode of magne-
tising with the hand more particularly. They mention two
methods ; that of aetual contact, ancl that of directing the finger
or conducting rod from some distance. ·
"1. The ordinary procedure in magnetising by contact, con-
sists in applying the hands to the hypochondria, directing the
thumbs towards the umbilicus, and placing the index fingers
on the epigastrium. It is common, especially i:n m.agnetisi'~Lg
females, to press with the hands over the reg1on of the lnd-
neys. The other parts touched are determined by the seat of
~ Rapport des Commissaircs. Par M. Bailly, 1784.
t Vide Fortes' Rev.loc. citat. and" Rapport," &c.
30 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
disP.ase, but whatever they may be, friction, more or less con-
tinued, is alternated with pressure.
" 2. In magnetising at a distance, the finger or conductor is
directed to the nostrils, the mouth, the eyes, the back, or the
breast; to the forehead, o1· to the occiput. The finger or con-
ductor is generally carried along the course of the ~rms, the
sides of the body, the thighs, and the legs. Sometimes the
hand is shook, with fingers extended and separated, as if to
suddenly shake off the supposed fluid from the finger ends."
§ GO. The hiccup, vomiting, and purging, which occasion-
ally occurred, were ascribed by the committee to direct irrita-
tion of the diaphragm, stomach, and colon, by manipulation
more or less strong, continued according to the irritability of
the patient; fainting, to pressure on the pit of the stomach;
convulsions, to continued irritation of the ovaries, by pre&sure
and friction.*
§ 61. Jussieu remarks, that of the effects which he saw
from m:J.gnetising, some were internal, and only to be known
from the account of the patients : such are, ~!eat of the part
with which the rod from the baquet is in contact; the sensa-
tion of a fluid circulating; of heat or of cold ; of malaise; or
of perfect health. Other effects were external, and manifest
to others; such as yawning, sweating, tears, laughter, agita-
tion, convulsive movements, slight, or severe, sleep, loss or
suspension of sense, evacuations of various kinds.
§ 132. He arranges the facts he observed into four classes-
1st. General and positive facts, of which the true cause cannot
be rigidly determined; but of which he considers that many
may proceed from some physical cause, (pressure, friction,
&c.,) and the rest may be ascribed to an unknown fluid, or to
the influence of the imagination; and until the existence of
the fluid can be demonstrated, the latter opinion, he considers,
ought to prevail as the most ancient and best proved. 2nd.
Negative facts, which establish only the non-action of the con-
tested fluid. 3rd. Facts, whether negative or positive, attribu-
table solely to the influence of the imagination. 4th. Positive
facts, which appear to esta1
Jlish another agent.
§ 63. Under the first tnree heads, the facts and opinions are
unfavourable to the doctrines of Mesmer, and may he passed
by without comment. The last series of facts is subjoined
entire, as being the only one on which Jussieu differed from his
fellow-commissioners.
a. A female, blind from thick opacities of both cornere, be-
came disquieted and agitated in two or three minutes after a
rod from the baquet had been directed towards her stomach
though at a distance of six feet. Precaution was taken that
• Rapport des Commissaires de la Societe Roy. de Medecine, 1784
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 31
sh_e should not derive any information from hearing. It is ad-
mJ_tted, howe~er, that she coulu perceive, confusedly, certain
objects at a dtstance of three or four inches.
b. A p<iti nt, in whom the crisis was a profound sleep more
or less prolon,seJ, experienced at intervals, without awaking,
a tran.,;.ient convulsive movement, with shock, which was es-
pecially excited by an extraordinary noise in the room, as by
the click vf two roL
l" struck against each other, or by the cry
of anoLh r patient in the crisis. The magnetic passes made
before his face at a little distance usually excited the same
convuboa.
c. The crisis of another patient was a general spasm, accom-
panied. uy temporJ.ry loss of the senses, without any violent
movement. The hP-ad was carried forwards, the eyes fixed,
the arms drawn backwards and stretched along the sides, the
hands open, the fingers extended. "My finger," says the re-
porter, " in contact with his forehead between the eyes,
seeme,l lo relieve him a little. If I withdrew it gently, the
head followed mechanically in every direction, and came
again to rest against it. If, after having thus drawn his head
towards one sicle, I presented my other hand at the distance of
an inch, the head retreated precipitately, with the sign of a
lively impression. These movements were repeated three or
four times in ten minutes; but at the end of that time, the
spasm diminishing, the sensibility was no longer the same.
On recovery from this state, the patient was ignorant of what
had pass· d."
d. The slightest magnetic movements excited in another
patient an impressi1m so lively, that many times, on pointing a
finger six inches from his back, without his seeing it, he was
seized at the instant with convulsive movements and repeated
shocks, which announced to him the action exercised, and con-
tinued during that action.
e. Th:.. s.1luons of treatment contained m:my other patients
of diffcr,mt nexes, and of constitutions more or less irritable,
who likewise experienced the same, but to a less extent, when-
ever they had been excited by the touching;; over the stfJmach.
"If, unknown to them, one acted on the head or down the
back, without tou~hing them with the finger, at some distance,
they generally starte? with vivacity, and turned round to see
who was placed behmd them."
§ G1. " Ces faits sont peu nombreux et peu varies,'' says
Jm:>ieu, "but they are sufficient (!) to make us admit the pos·
sibility of the e.>..istence of a fluid or agent communicable from
one man to unother, and sometimes exercising upon the latter
a sensible action."*
~ Rapport de l'un des Commissaires. Paris, 1784.
32 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
§ 65. The accidental discovery of magncti~ somnambu~ism
produced an entire change in the effects of ammal magne~1sm.
On arriving at Busancy, his country-seat, the first ess~y of ~he
Marquis de Puysegur consisted in relieving toothache, 1n winch
he succeeded in six minutes. He next cured a robust coun-
tt·yman, named Victor, of" fluxion de poitri?-e," in fo~r days.*
Having magnetised his gardener, th~ Marqu1s asked han s?n~e
questions, and was agreeably surpnsed at the cleamc!:ls ot Ins
an:>wers. The talent of the patient appears to have 111crcascd
with each repetition of the experiment, until the sympathy
between the two became so great, that. the s?rvant ~hen mag-
netised could divine every thought and WJsh of h1s ma ·ter,
impart the soundest advice, and yet was so obedient withal, that,
in the words of the Marquis, "I need not speak ; 1 have only
t() think before him, when he instantly understands and an-
swers me. Should anybody come into the room, he sees h1m,
if I desire it, (but not else,) and addresses him, and says what
I wish him to say; not, indeed, exactly as I dictate to him, but
as truth requires. When he wants to add more than I deem it
prudent strangers should hear, I stop the flow of his ide:J.s, and
of his conversation in th~ middle of a word, and give it quite a
different turn !"t
§ GG. Not content with relieving the ailments of the poor,
the kind-hearted Marquis ministered to their wants likewise.
The reputation of a physician who gave his patients bread and
soup soon became extensive, and Puysegur found that though
he magnetised from morning till night, he could scarcely sat-
isfy the appetite-for the marvellous-of his peasants. Recol-
lecting Deslon·s feat with the apricot-tree,:j: an ingenious idea
suggested itself. In the village of B11sancy stood a fine old elm,
at the foot of which ran a slream of the purest water. This
was the usual rendezvous of the village Solons and rural
swains, and therefore, as Cloquet states, ":1 tree respected by
the old people of the place.'' Cords were connected to the
trunk and branches, and extended to any length amono-st the
patients, who sat in rows on circular benches around th
0
e base
of the tree. The Marquis, first touching the tree with his
hands, and then making passes at a distance, from the branches
towards the trunk, and from the trunk towards the roots, duly
charged the whole with magnetic energy. From amongst the
crowd of patients, Puysegur selected certain persons, whom
he touched separately either with his hands or with his iron
rod. These were now " Mcdecins," and endued with the
power of ascertaining the exact nature and seat of disease
~ Hist. Academiq. p. 241. t Quoted by Mackay, op. cit. p. 328.
t Forbes' Rev. loc. citat.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM, '33
either by common outward touching, or by carrying the hand
beneath the clothes of the patient.
§ G7. After the discovery of somnambulism m'lny of Puy-
segur's patie~ts evinced that phenomenon. 'A well-spread
tab~e was gmckly cleared by these somnambulists, who, in
the1r peculiar sleep, ate and drank like ordinary men; but
strangely enough, when restored to their natural state, they
had no recollection of having done either the one or the other.
§ G8. The effect of magnetising was now to produce a calm,
quiet, sleep-like state, during which the magnetised person
cou_ld neither see nor hear but at the will of his magnetiser.
Th1s stale was termed the crisis-a striking contrast to the
condition so designated in the practice of Mesmer and Deslon.
"If any one touched a patient during a crisis, or even the
chair on which he was seated, it would cause him much pain
and suf.'cring, and throw him into convulsions."* But no such
distress seems to have ensued when the somnambuli.st touched
anotherperson for the purpose of professional inve~~igation. In
this so-styled crisis, the magnetise could see the interior of his
own body, or that of any other person when placed in mag-
netic communication with him, state the nature and seat, prog-
nosticate the course and result, and detail the appropriate
treatment, of his disease.
§ G9. Notwithstanding their eyes were completely closed,
the operatur could make these somnambulists follow him, by
merely pointing his finger towards them, even when at some
distance.
§ 70 M. Mialle having told Puysegur that his sleep was dis-
turbed and painful, the latter gave him a bit of magnetised
glass, which he recommended him to put on his chest when
he wished to sleep. "As soon as I went to bed," says Mialle,
" I wished to try the effect of my glass. I had scarcely placed
it on my chest, when I experienced a heat like that which M.
Puysegur communicated to me; my eyelids soon became heavy,
and I passed an excellent night."
§ 71. The Marquis denounced the crises of Mesmer and
Deslon as scandalous and dangerous, and considered the state
of somnambulism as 'the criterion that animal magnetism was
acting beneficially. He asserted, that after his own discovery
of somnambulism, his brother, M. Chastenet de Puysegur, had
informed him that Mesmer had induced a similar state in
some of his patients, but that he (Chastenet) had promised to
keep this an inviolable secret. . .
§ 72. Puysegur laid down three charactenstlcs of the state
of somnambulism.
• Cloquet, quoted by Mackay, op. cit. p. 329.
c
34 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
a. Isolation; the patient can have no .communication or con·
nexion with any person but the magnctlser.
b. Concentration ; the thoughts of the pati.ent a~c s~ com-
pletely concentrated upon himself, that nothmg Will distract
his attention.
c. Magnetic mobility; the patient is ahY~ys more .or less
sensible to the impulse of every thought of lus.mag~ctl er.
§ 73. To rouse or disenchant his somnambullsts, 1t was only
necessary for the Marquis to touch their eyes, or to say," Go,
embrace the tree."*
§ 74. The Marquis de Tissart, also, established ~magnetic
tree at Beaubourg, where the officers acted upon theuservants,
and sometimes these upon their superiors; but" it appears,"
says Vir~y, "that magnetism descends well, but docs notre-
ascend."
§ 75 Puysegur had discarded the baquet The Chevalier
Barberin went farther, and dispensed with all manipulations
whatever. (§ 22 )
§ 76. Faria, employing neither passes, gazing, nor magnetic:
apparatus, merely placed his patient in an easy chair, desired
him to shut his eyes, and then, in a loud, authoritative tone,
uttered the word " Sleep." If, after repeating the command
three or four times, the patient was still awake, he was dis-
missed as unsusceptible. The Abbe, however, caused sleep in
very many of his patients, and boasted that he had, " in his
time, produced five thousand somnambulists by this method."
§ 77. At the magnetic clinique in Berlin, Wolfart used the
baquet and steel conductors of Mesmer ; the only alteration
being that of substituting woollen for silken cords, on the as-
sumption that the magnetic fluid could not be transmitted by
silk.
§ 78. The methods of magnetising subsequently adopted
were often modified according to the whirn of the operator.
They consisted of the mere exercise of the will, of a fixed and
continued gaze, of breathing upon the patient, of passes with
and without contact, and of all these combined. As scientific
experimentalists increased, the rules of operating became more
exact, and the conditions essential to success more strictly de-
fined. Deleuset laid down very precise directions, and hi,;
work and that of Kluge:j: will furnish the most plain and accu-
.. T_he Marquis had an interesting subject in Agnf.s BurguP-t, the wife of
a farner, at Busanc.y . He brought her to Paris, where she was known
u!lder the _title of th~ Marchioness, and consulted her exclusively al.Jout
himse~f, his .l~dy, children, servanta, and many of his friends.
t Hist. Cnhq. 1813.
:f: Ver~P::h eincr Dars~ellung des An. Mag. &c., 1815. For a minute de-
tailo~ the, mode of ~akmg rasses, &c., either of the above, Isis Revelata,
or Spillan s Translahon of'Ieste, may be referred to
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 3:5
ra e exposition of animal magnetism, according to its advo-
cates.
§_ 7_0. To beco~e a succes:>ful magnetiser, Deleuse, after
not1c1 ng the desirableness of forgetting all previous know-
ledge, and of carefully eschewing the exercise of reason, ad-
vise:-~ thus:-" Imagine that it is in your power to take the
malady in hand, and throw it on one side. Have an active
desire to do good, a firm belief in the power of magnetism, and
an entire confidence in empl0ying it; in short, repel all doubts,
desire success, and act with simplicity and attention."*
§ 80. In general, a per;;0n possesses magnetic power in pro-
portion to hi strength and vital energy. He should have a
strong constitution, be in the prime of life, and possess "a
s0unJ. and energetic mind, a lively faith, and a determined,
de~potic volition." If an unhea\thy person attempted to mag-
netise tl1ere would be danger of his " communicating his dis-
eased feelings to the patient."-Jsis. If the operator is the
weaker person, either no effects ensue, or they are inverted,
the operator himself becoming magnetised.-Kluge.
§ 1. The susceptibility of the patient is generally inversely
to his strength of mind and health of body. Females are
usually more susceptible than men.
~ 2. When operating successfully, the magnetiser always
feels a glow ami the sensation of something flowing from the
points of his fingers. Silk gloves prevent alike the sensation
and the success of the process; gloves of linen or leather have
not this effect. If both operator and subject are isolated by
electrical non-conductors, the effects produced are greater, and
the loss of power and fati~ue of the magnetiser less.-Rluge.
§ .
1. Manipulation with contact-the pressure being either
really considerable, or slight, with the desire nf the operator
that it should be strong-is m0re powerful, but passes at a
distance," are frequently employed in magnetising very irrita-
ble patients, who cannot endure any stronger method."t .
§ 81. Kluge considers that there are six degrees of magnetl-
sation, the effects produced varying in each.
1st. The sensation of a current from the head to the extre-
milies ;t slight redness; increase of heat, ascertainable by the
thermometer; perspiration ; general ease and comfort.
2nd. Increac;ed heat appearing to the patient t0 spread out
from the stomach as from a centre ; pulse becomes fuller and
stron<.?;er; breathing deeper; there is heaviness, then ~losm:e
of the eyes and incapability of opening them. The patten_t 1s
perfectly conscious, th0ugh not always able to speak. Hearmg,
smelling, taste, and touch, are acute-often extremely so
• Mackay, op. cit quoted; p. 341. t Isis Rev., vol. i. P· 271.
t That is, in the direction of the wafts of air made by the passes.-C.R.H.
36 HISTORY OF ME MERI "M.
Sparks or luminous halos, pricl:ings, twitchi~gs, shudd rmg,
uneasiness at the stomach, and sickness, occa 10nally follow.
3rd. Yawning, stretching, sighing, deep sle p, in wh.ich tho
patient has neither sensation nor consciousness. Occasionally,
tremblings, faintings, convulsions, catalepsy, and even apo-
plexy. · l · 1· lf '' l · · tl t t
4th. The patient awakes" Wit nn umse ; 1e_1s m 1e sa e
of magnetic somnambulism. rr:he eyes ~ay he ~1ther cl.osed or
open, but in either case the patient can dJstmgtush notlung but
the difference between light and darkness. The eyeballs arc
fixerl and straight, or convulsively turned up, pU]Jils dilated
and inactive. The sense of feeling becomes metamorphosed
into that of seeing. The region of the stomach is the centre
of most acute sensation and of most distinct vision; hearing
is also performed by the pit of the stomach. The facultie be-
come rr.0re perfect by repeated exercise. Smell has its sensi-
bility much heightened. Living objects are seen more distinctly
than inanimate ones. If the somnambulist be tot1ched by a
person whom he dislikes, the part touched becomes cold and
pale, and convulstons commonly occur. Metals, especially
when magnetic, produce unpleasant effects. On restoration to
his ordinary state, the patient recollects nothing or very little
of what occurred during his somnambulism, bnt if thrown into
a similar state again, remembers perfectly all that had hap-
pened in his last somnambulism.
5th. The patient is able to see the minute structure of any
part of his own body, or of that of any other person placed en
rapport with him. This is the stage of cJairvoyanee. Bcsitles
having a clear insight into the exact nature and scat of the dis-
ease either of himself, his magneli ·cr, or any other person
placed in magnetic communication, the clairvoyant prescribes
the means of cure with unerring certainty. F'ometimes not
only has he felt the sensations of tl1e disease under which his
magnetiser laboured at the time, but has actually caught the
very diseaf.e itself, and suffered from it c~ftcr being awoke.
Gth. The secrets of the past, tbe present, and the future, are
now no longer concealed from the somnambnlist. IIis lan-
guage is elevated and energetic, his intellect ~trong and clear.
He can see the interior of the bot1y of any distant person, pro-
vided he knows him; or if he does not, provided any one
placed en rapport thinks intently nf the distant per. on. His
knowledge of remedies becomes more extensive than before.
If asked how he obtains all this knowledge, the somnambulist
usually states that he feels it through the pit of the stomach.
In this state of calmness and serenity, the clairvoyant feels
~levat~d to a state of almost. heavenly felicity, is incapable of
1mpunty, and ".even the gn1lty ohtams the feeling of virtue."
§ 85. Accordmg to Deleuse, some persons, when in the
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 37
state of somnambulism, " see the fluid encircling the magne-
tiser like a halo of light, and issuing in luminous streams i'rom
his mouth and nostrils, his head and hands, possessing a very
agreeable smell, and communicating a particular taste to food
and W<tter."*
§ rj. The mode of magnetisinJ adopted by Foissac and
Dupotet, in the experiments made before the French committee
of 18·25, somewhat resembled that of Deslon, (§ 59,) and is de-
scribed in detail in the report.t As the decision of this com·
mittc>e is considered a "great fact'' by the advocates of mes-
merism, the whule of the facts upon which it was founded are
here condensed. These facts are classed in the lleport under
fonr heads :-
1. Magnrtism without effect.-The reporter, (Husson,) De-
mussy, and Bolmlois, '•ere repeatedly magnetised, both when
in he:tlth and when indisposed, without experiencing the
sli[!;htcst effect
§ 87. M. Itard is said to have presented "a commencement
of the magnetic action." He had been for eight years affi.icted
with chronic rheumatism, of which the seat was then in the
stomach. The pain was, in general, very variable. He
thought he felt a blast of warm air from tl1e passes, which he
cease l lo perceive after closing his eyes; he felt headache and
dryness of the tongue, though it appeared moist, and his p11in
left him.
§ 8. 2. Slight effects of mngnetism.-M. Magnieu, M.D.,
had anenrism of the heart; was magnetised six times. A sense
of coolness was experienced in every part towards which the
fingers of the operator were for a long time directed. The pulse
was always lower by from three to ten beats at the termination
of a sitting, except at the bst, when it remained 83.
§ 80. M. Roux had a chronic affection of the stomach; was
magnetised six times : he experien erl, at first, a sensible dimi-
nution in the number of inspirations and pnlsations; afterwards,
a sli2;ht degree of heJ.t in the stomach, a p;reat degree of cold-
ness in the face; the sensation of the vaporization of ether, e1Jen
when no manipulations were practised, and finally a decided
disposition to sleep.
§ 00. A. B--, a!!;ed twentf-five, magnetised three times;
her complaint w s headache, with neural?;ia of the left eye.
The respir<ltion and pulse were quickened; sleep induced;
headache relieved; neuralgia unaffected.
§ 91. T. T-- complained of pains in the loins and abdo-
men; magnetised five times. The in~pirations increased in
quickne~s to tvventy-seven per minute, and then-the magnetic
operations proceeding-decreased to twenty-four; pulse accel-
• Quoted by Mackay, vol. iii. p. 340. t Isis Rev., vol. ii. p. 203.
38 HISTORY OF JHESMERIRM.
erated. The woman was afraid, and " •vitlently tea eel and
annoyed." Effects :-frequent and lonrr-rlrawn sigh:, some-·
times interrupted, winking and depression of the eyeltd ·, rub-
bing of the eyes, repeated deglutition of the saliva,~ (a motion
which, in the case of other magnetisetl persons, has con::.lantly
preceded sleep,) and, finally, the disappearance of the pain in
the loins.
§ 9:.... 3. Effects p1·oduced by ennui, monotony~ and the
imagination.-Mdlle. L--, aged twenty-five,~ patwnt 1n the
Hotel Dieu, had amaurosis, of three years' duratwn ; was mag-
netised eleven times. Commencement of drowsiness at the
third sitting; convulsive motions of neck, face, hands, antl.
shonlder, after fourth sitting. Pulse always quickenecl. At
elel'cnlh sitting, Dupotet placed himselfbehind her, and though
he hatl. no intention of magnetising her, antl. made no gestures
whatever, "she experienced a more decided tendency to sleep
than upon any of the preceding days, accompanied, however,
with less of agitation and convulsive motions." Her amaurosis
unaltered.
§ 93. L. G-- had leucorrhrea, was subject to hysteric
attacks; also a patieut in the Hotel Dieu; magnetised eight
times. Agitation, plaintive cries, long and interrupted sighs,
stiffness and twisting of the arms, directing of the hand towards
the pit of the stomach, bending of the whole body backwards,
so as to form an arch, of which the concavity was in the back,
and occasionally some minutes of sleep at the termination of
the scene, occurred equally after the magnetic process, after
Dupotet had merely directed his fingers behind her chair to-
warc'ls the middle part of her back, when he had placed himself
in front, at the distance of two feet, "without touching her,
without practi-ing any manipulation or external act, but having
an energetic intention of producing in her some of the magnetic
phenomena;" and, lastly, in the absence of her magnetiser, but
under circumstances which led the woman to suppose that he
was present.
§ 9!. A man, aged twenty-seven, an epileptic, was magne-
tised at the Hotel Dieu fifteen times. Drowsiness and sleep,
easily disturbed, resulted after the magnetic passes, aud equally
so when the operator (Hussoo) pb.ced himself behind the
patient's chair, without any magnetic manipulations at all.
§ 93. 4. Effects due to magnetism.-A child, aged two
years and fonr months, had the pas:>es made at it. It yawned
and rubbed its eyes, scratched its head and its ears, " seemed
"" These signs, the committee remark, were constantly observod in all
cases whem magnetic action was induced, and were consiclered to indicate
its commencement.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 39
to contend against the approach of sleep, and soon rose, if we
may be allowed the expression, grumbling."
§ 9G. A deaf and dumb lad, aged eighteen, an epileptic, mag-
netised fifteen times. Effects, heaviness of the eyelids, general
numbness, a desire to sleep, and sometimes vertigo; fits sus-
pended for a time.
§ 07. Itard, one of the committee, was again magnetized
(§ 7) by the same operator (Dupotet) in 1827. He then per-
ceived a heaviness without sleep, a decided sensation of a
peculiar nature, a setting on edge in the nerves of the face,
convulsive motions in the nostrils, in the muscles of the face
and jaws, and a flow of saliva of a metallic taste-a sensation
analogous to that which he had experienced from galvanism.
In 18:~8, M. Itard, who suffered from pains in the head, was
magnetised eighteen times by Foissac. The operation almost
constantly produced a flow of saliva, twice with a metallic
flavour. A little twitching of the tendons of the forearms and
legs. The headache ceased each time after a treatment of from
twelve to fifteen minutes, "it entirely disappeared by the ninth
sitting, when it was recalled by an interruption of the magnetic
operations for three days, and again dissipated by the same
means." During the treatment, Itard experiencea "a sensa-
tion of general health, an agreeable disposition to sleep, som-
nolency accompanied with vague and pleasant reveries. His
complaint underwent, as before, a sensible amelioration, which,
however, was not- of long duration after he ceased to be mag-
netised."
§ 08. The committee next adduce fifteen cases in proof of
the existence of the state of magnetic somnambulism, and ar-
range them so as to present the manifestation "in a regular
increasing progression." The'cases last detailed must, there-
fore, be considered the strongest.* Of all the fifteen, the fol-
lowing i::; a brief analysis, as regards the effects produced by
animal magnetism:-
a. Loss of external sensibility in seven cases : imperfect in
two of these; complete in five.
b. Co11traction of the pupib in one.
c. Convulsive motions of any part towards which the opera-
tor, OT any one else, directed a finger, (considered by Dupo-
tet "as an unequivoc;:al sign of the existence of somnambu-
lism,") in five. In two of these cases, they occurred without
any re('fnhrity, and both when it was wished to excite, and
the reverse j in two, they occurred regularly, and without mis-
take; in one, correctly, so long as the eyes were uncovered;
" Those abrirlgerl (~ 99, 100, 101, 10:2) are the four last and therefore the
strongest, in the report.
40 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
sometimes correctly, and sometimes not, when the eyes were
band.:tged.
d. In one, a hoarse cough is said to have "indicated the
commencement of magnetic action.". .
e. Rise of pulse during the magnetlsatJon was a gene1:al ~ut
not universal phenomenun. In one case, the pulse fellm fre-
quency.
f Great increase of strength during the process in one.
g. Diminished animal heat, appreciable by the thermometer,
in one, (the 15th case, Mdlle. Celine Sauvage.)
h. The t ngue, from being moist and flexible, became dry
and wrinkled, in one, (the 15th.)
i. The breath, until then sweet, became fetid and repulsive
in one, (the 15th.)
j. The patient sent to sleep, and again awakened, by Foissac,
" by the mere influence 0f his volition,'' in one.
k. Prognostications erroneous in two.
l. Acknowled5ed imposture throughout, in three.
m. Clairvoyance in two.
n. Intuition and previsit~h in three.
§ 99. The first clairvoyant, Petit, could not distinguish the
hour by a watch, the hands of which had intentionally been
deranged; could see nothing when an opaCJUe body was inter-
posed between his eyes and the object, when his eyes were
bandaged. But when his eyelids were closed and uncovered,
he could read after some effort. He thus read the address on
the outside of a s·ealed letter, but could not discover any of its
contents. He played a game at cards correctly, and it was ob-
served that " the ball of the eye seemed to move under the
eyelids, and to follow the different motions of the hands." He
became so eager at one game, that he was insensible to the in-
fl•lence of a person who "vainly attempted to operate on him
from behind, and to make him perform a command intimated
merely by the will."
§ 100. The other clairvoyant, P. V--, aged twenty-four,
had hemiplegia of the left side of two years' standing, and lry-
pertrophy of the heart. He had derived "perceptible relief
from the means employed," (moxa, seton, &c.,)'but still walked
with crutches. After the first sitting, his deafness and head-
ache disappeared. Later on, he announced that he could be
cured only by animal magnetism, but that he must continue
to take nu:r vomica, and use sinapisms and baths of Barecres,
that he should be bled in the arm, and in three days he w~uld
be ~bl.e to walk without his crutches. (Prevision.) His pre-
scnptwus were followed, and on the thud day he dispensed
with his crutches. During his somnambulism, Paul could read
very well, when his eyes were kept closed with the fingers by
different members of the committee : " the ball of the eye
HISTORY OF MESMERISM, 41
was in a constant rotatory motion, and seemed directed towards
the object presented to his vision." He attempted in vain,
however, to distinguish different cards which were applied to
the pit of the stomach.
§ 101. Prevision.-P. C--, aged twenty, an epileptic, pre-
dicts a fit, which duly occurs at the time stated. He predicts
a s~cond, but says that it may he prevented hy magnetising
him a little previously. As the time fixed upon was incon-
venient, Foissac put a stop to this iit by magnetism. Three
more fits occurred within a few minutes of the times severally
S;!eci!ied. Pierre then prophesied that he should have two fits
mrJre, the first to occur in nine weeks, at three minutes past
six o'clock ; that, in about three weeks after this fit, he
should become insane, that his insanity should last three days,
during which he should be so wicked as to fight with every-
body, that he should even maltreat his wife and his child,
that be ought not to he left alone with them, and that he
di1l not know but he might kill some person, whom he did not
name. He ought then to be bled successively in the two feet.
"Finally," he added, "I shall be cured in the month of Au-
gust; and when once cured, the disease will never attack me
again under any circumstances." Two days after giving this
prophecy, Pierre was himself so injured about the head by an
accident, that he died in twenty-three days. On dissection,
were found the effects of the recent injury on the membranes
of the brain, and a substance containing hydatids on the plexus
choroides.
§ 102. Intuition and Instinct of Remedies.-Mdlle. C.
Sauvage prescribed for three patients.
a. The first was M. Marc, (one of the committee.) Her
diagnosis was, determination of blood to the head ; pain in
the left side of his head ; oppression after eating ; slight
cough; lower part of the breast gorged with blood; some
impediment in the alimentary canal ; the region of the
xiphoid cartilage contracted. Treatment.-Copious bleed-
ing; hemlock cataplasms; laudanum to be rubbed into the
breast ; gummed lemonade ; to eat little and frequently, and
not to take exercise immediately after a meal. Marc st'lted
that he dirl feel oppression after a meal ; that he frequently
had a cough ; that he had felt pain in the left side of his head,
but that he was not sensible of their being any impediment in
the alimentary passage.
b. A young lady, aged twenty-five, had suffered from ascites
for two years. Paracentesis had been performed ten or twelve
times. The surface of the abdomen was unequal and corru-
g, ted ; " and these irregularities corresponded to the obstruc-
tions which had their seat within." Dupu) !ren and Husson,
her medical attendants, had prescribed goat's milk, the goat
42 HISTOR1l OF MESJ.I.IERIS!II,
having been previously rubbed with mercurial ointment. The
somnambulist examined th patient for ight minutes, apply-
ing her },and repeatedly to the stomach, the heart, the back,
and the head. Diagnosis.-" The ·whole belly d1:seased; m
it a scirrhus and a large quantity of water on the side of the
spleen; intestines much pufii~d up; pouches containing worms;
swellmgs containing puriform matter ; and at the bottom of
the stomach there was an obstructed gland, of the thickness of
three of her fingers. Treatment.-.Amongst a farrago of im-
proper or inert remedies, Ccline recommemled " a very little
mercury taken in mille She added, that the milk of a goat,
which had been rubbed with mercurial ointment half an hour
before drawing it off, would be the most prvper."*
c. 1Vladame La C--, a young married woman, "having
the whole right side of the neck deeply obstructed by a great
congeries of glands close upon each other," was suspected of
having syphilis, and mercury had been given largely. Diag-
nosis.-Stomach had been attacked by a substance like poison;
slight·inflammation of the intestines ; in the neck, a scrofu-
lous complaint. P1·ognosis (i. e. p1·evision.)-That by follow-
ing the treatment laid down by her, the disease would be miti-
gated in three weeks. Treatment.-Small doses of magnesia;
leeches to the pit of the stomach ; water-gruel ; a saline ca-
thartic every week ; two clysters each day-the first to be
made of decoction of cinchona, the other of marsh-mallows ;-
friction of the limbs with ether ; a bath every week ; milk ;
light meats ; and abstinence from wine. This plan produced
" a perceptible amelioration of the symptoms," but the friends
becoming dissatisfied, the patient again took mercury. A
post-mortem examination shewed tuberculosis of the lungs and
cervical glands, " the mucous membrane of the great cul-de-
sac of the stomach almost entirely destroyed," but there was no
indication of the presence of any syphilitic disease, whether
old or recent.
So ends, to use their own words, " the faithful exposition of
all" which this celebrated committee observed.
§ 103. In the experiments of the next French commission,
(§ 32, 33,) Bern~'s first patient was a girl of seventeen or eigh-
teen years of age, of a nervous anr] delicate constitution, but
with an au cool and sufficiently resolute. In order to test
.. M._Husson add~, i? a note, that :'l'ith respect to lhe singular coinci-
dence m. the prescnpt_
10n of mercunal!zed goat's milk, by both the re~u­
lar and Irregular rnGrJical attendants, " it is presented as a fact, of which
the repor~er guarantees tbe authenticity , but of which no ezplanattOn
can be giYcn." But surely he here deserts his colours. The common
mesmeric faculty of " community of thought"-if exercised between M.
Husson, who was present, and Celine-would fully account for the
marvel.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 43
her natural degree of sensibility before any magnetic operation
was commenced, some of the committee stuck needles into her
hands and neck, to the ctepth of half a line. She said" she did
not feel anything, nor did her expression betoken pain. On
noticing the surprise of her questioners, however, she acknow-
led_sed that she did feel "a little pain." Sitting down by her
side, and looking earnestly at her, but without making any
rasses, in about two minutes Berna declared his patient to be
m a st:J.te of somnambulism. Her eyes were then carefully
bandaged. After ag1in gazing steadfastly at the somnambulist
from a short distance, Berna announced that she was struck
with genL'ral insensibility.
§ 101. The reporter directs attention to the difficulty of test-
ing this general insensibility under the circumstances allowed.
By agreem~nt, the committee were not to prick with needles
deeper than half a line, nor in any other parts than the hands
and neck. A;;ain : of that index of pain, the face, there were
alone visible the forehead, the mouth, and the chin; still, when
Dubois stuck the needle suddenly under the chin, the patient
instantly and with vivacity made a movement of deglutition:
merely touched with the finger upon the hand by Cloquet, she
perceived the impression.
§ 105. The committee now desired to test the power of Berna
to paralyze his patient and deprive her of sensibility by the
sole and tacit intervention of his will. In his programme,
Berna had stated, that as a signal that the magnetic action was
sufficiently intense, he would raise his hand. He promised to
deprive of sensibility, 1, The whole of the body; 2, any single
part of the borly. To deprive of motion, 1, The two arms; 2,
the two legs ; :1, an arm and a leg; 4, one arm only, or one leg
only; 5, the neck, on eithar the right or the left side ; 6, the
tongue. To verify the insensibility, the committee were re-
stricted to the assertion of the patient, and the expression of
the body. As regards the paralysis, if the patient did notmove
the limb she was reiJ.uired to raise, it was sufficient, according
to the magnetiser, to prove that the limb had been struck with
palsy; that this had been done by the silent will of the operator;
and that it depended on the agency of animal magnetism!
§ lOG. The committee, suspecting that if they demanded
evidPnce in the orde1· of the programme, the command, 1st,
"Lift both arms;'' 2nd, "Lift both legs," &c., might inform
the patient of the parts ·which her magnetiser wished to
paralyze, laid down the following directions :-M. Berna was
to maintain the most absolute silence; the committee were to
indicate, in writing, the parts of which they desired to have
the sensibility or mobility removed or restored. Instead of
raising his arm, Berna was to give the signal by shutting one
of his eyes. The orders then written were, 1, Remove the
44 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
sensibility of the chin; 2, of the right thumb ; 3, of the left
shoulder; 4, of the front of the right knee.
§ 107. To thes~ conditions M. Ber.na. would not agree, b~­
cause the parts pomted out were too lumted ; they were not m
accordance with his programme, and, moreover, he did not
understand why these precautions should be taken against
hirn. He then bade the somnambulist awaken, raised the
,\'>andage from her eyes, and looked at Bouillaud. That gentle-
'man then pricked the patient; she turned her head towards
him, and Berna cried out, "Behold the sensibility restored!"
§ 108. Second examination.-The same patient as before.
All the commissioners except Roux, Bouillaud, and Dubois
d'Amiens, were requested to retire, lest their presence should
alarm the young woman,(§ 103.) After two or three minutes'
f:iOmnambulising, Berna declared that his patient was ready.
He was asked to paralyze the right arm alone, and to give the
signal by closing his eyes. Seated before his patient, Berna
lowered his head towards her hands, she placing hers upon his
lap. Dubois, noticing this, interposed a sheet of writing-paper
between the hands of the patient and Berna. On the signal
being given, Bouillaud asked the patient to move each of the
limbs successively. She replied, that she could not move the
right leg nor the right arm. Berna then willed to paralyze
the left leg alone. She said that she could not move the left
arm, but she could move the left leg very well. Bouillaud
requested Berna to uncover the eyes and act upon the iris, as
being a part endued with mobility and sensibility. This was
declined, together with the next proposal, to paralyze all four
extremities at once. " These were not in the programme."
Berna agreed to paralyze the left leg, and to give the signal by
extending his forefinger. The somnambulist declared that she
could move the left leg very well, but that she could not stir
the left arrn. It is remarked, as a curions coincidence, that
Bouillaud had slightly touched the left hand of the patient,
and this she probably mistook for the tacit expression of the
will of her magnetiser. In excusing his want of success, Berna
prete:.o.d.ed that though he had failed to affect the limbs he in-
tended, yet it was a proof of the power of animal magnetism
that he had been able to produce paralysis at all !
§ 109. Third examination.-The somnambulist was placed
en rapport with M. Roux. M. Oudet "Poke to her, but Berna
interfered immediately, stating that the patient could not hear
him, as she was not en rapport with him. Notwithstanding
this, she had just before replied, without hesitation, to the
questions of M. Cornac, who was not in magnetic communi-
cation with her ! Her magnetiser probably had been inatten-
tive. Berna was des1red to cause his patient to cerzse to hear
any person named by the tacit order of his will. The experi-
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 45
ment was tried and failed. Bouillaud wished to have the sen-
sibility o~ the ~·ight han.d removed. Berna objected on the plea
that as lus patient was m a slate of somnambulism all sensi-
bilit:y was ~lready removed. He was then requested to restore
sen tb11Jty m the left hand alone. On examining the patient, he
declared that he had made a mistake, fer instead of acting men-
tally upon the left, he had restored sensibility in the right band!
§ 110. Fow·th examination.-A new female, aged thirty-
one, w~s the sornnamb~list. Her eyes were bandaged after
the arnval of the comm1ttee. Interrogated by her magnetiser,
(who alone conversed with her on tllis occasion,) whether she
could discern what passed bef0re her, she replied that she
should be able to see better if Berna would stand before her.
Berna accordingly placed himself so near her that their legs
touched each other. "How many persons are there present?"
"Many, at least five." Berna, then, in a loud voice, directed
the reporter to take a card and write something upon it. The
reporter accordingly wrote on a card, in printed and distinct
characters, the word "Pantagruel," and placed the card against
the back of the patient's head. On being questioned, the som-
nambulist replied, with some hesitation, that it was "some-
thing white, which looked like a visiting carcl." " Could she
see anything upon the card?" " Yes," ~aid she, boldly, "I
see some writing." "Is the writing large or small?" "Very
large." "Wait-! do not see well. Ah! there is first an M;
yes, there is a word beginning with M." Without being
noticed, the reporter now substituted a card perfectly blank. To
repeated questions, the patient replied that she could only dis-
tinguish the single letter M; presently she added, with an air
of doubt, that she perceived on the card two lines of writing.
Cornac then presented to the occiput a card on which he had
written the word aime. She perceived, she said, that there
was writing, hut coulct not tell what it was, nor what it signi-
fied. Cornac then took a long purse out of his pocket. "It is
something round," said she. Rcplac,ing his purse, Cornac held
up his hand alone. " It is something round," said the patient
again.
§ 111. The patient now complo.ined of being dazzled by the
light. Being relieved by a few transverse passes, she turned
her he~d on one side and peeped from beneath her bandc.ge at
the reporter, who was writing notes at the distance of about
two feet. "Do you see that gentleman ?" asked Berna. " Yes;
he has got something \vhite and ]ong"-(he was writing on an
oblong sheet of paper.) The reporter now approached th.e
somnambulist, stood behind her, and put the pen between l11s
teeth. "Do you see that gentleman behind you?" "Yes."
"Do you see his mouth?" "Not very well." "Why?" "He
has something white and long in it." The word" misere" was
46 HISTORY OF .M:ESl\'lERISl\1:.
then written on a card, which was placed against the occiput.
The somnambulist, without hesitation, stated that she saw a
card, and on it some writing. After appearing to try to dis-
tin,.uish the characters, she ·said that lhe word commenced
witl1 aT. "\Vithout her knowledge, the reporter substituted a
blank card. She then ,aid that she could distinguish four or
five letters in the word.
§ 112. Berna then requested aloud the reporter to take a
playing card and 3.pply it to the occiput. " Shall it be a court
card?" asked the reporter. "As you choose," was the reply.
. M. Dubois, whilst pretending to select a playing card, privately
took a blank card of similar dimensions, and applied it to the
occiput in the usual way. The operator, seated before his
patient, magnetises her with all his might. She hesitates to
answer the questions; she makes efforts, and says that she sees
a card. " ·what kind ?" She hesitates again, ann at length re-
plies that it is partly red and partly black. The operator re-
quests that the card may be passed round to the front, and
placed over the bandage. This is effected without allowing
mu~h of the card to he seen. After great hesitation, the patient
declares that the card is a " knave," then a "knave of a black
suit," and lastly," the knave of clubs!"
§ 113. The magnetiser next held an object in his hand, close
to the bandage over her eyes. After some apparent hesitation,
the patient said she saw something round; afterwarcts, she
thought it was flesh-coloured, then yellow, then the colour of
gold ; about as thick as an onion; that it was yellow on one
side, white on the other, with black below. She now wished
to give over, but on being solicited to explain the nature of the
object a little more clearly, she repeated that it was "yellow
and white." "You say it is white?" asked Berna. "Yellow
on one side, white on the other, with black below," was the posi-
tive reply. "Have you anything like it?" "No." "Have I?"
said Berna. "Ah! Yes, you have." "If you had, what would
you do with it?" "I would place it round my neck." Re-
quested to explain at least tho use of the object, the somnam-
bulist appeared to collect all her powers; she uttered the word
"hour," and then, as if suddenly enlightener1, ehe cried out it
was to "tell the hour." The object, which she had thus mis-
taken for a watch, was a silver medal.' this was the concluding
and a conclusive experiment.
§ 114. Of 164 persons magnetised in 1828 and 1829, by Mr.
Chenevix, we are informed that "ninety-eight manifested un-
d.eniable effects, some in one mi_nute, some not ~ill the opera-
twn had been repeated several tlmes!' When d1sease existed,
relief was almost always obtained.
§ .115. ~r. Chenevix operated bJ: passes, or by will alone;
and m one mstance, through a door, h1s presence being unknown
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 47
to the patient. It is worthy of remark, that he seems never to
have magnetised by the will alone, except he had on a previ-
ous occasion operated on the patient in the more ordinary way.
§ 116. Amongst the effects stated are, drowsiness, sleep,
evacuaticn of the bowels, a sensation of heat or cold, of pain,
amlloss of power to move a limb, at the will of the magnetiser,
closure of the eyelids without sleep, but with incapability of
opening t_hem, except at the will of the operator, and hysteric
fits.
§ t17. Curative effects.-Mr. Chenevix states that he had,
by animal magnetism, cured epilepsy, tendency to palsy, a man
pronounced hy Dr. Cotter to be "far advanced in consump-
tion ;" had caused the expulsion of worms in seven cases ; and
narrates the cure " of severe disabling sciatica of six years
standing, a rapidly advancing cure of numerous scrofulous
ulcers, a rapid improvement of a diseas~d knee, two instances
of return of so\l,3rness in a few minutes from intoxicati0n, re-
mission of intense agony from a gunshot wound till the surgeon
arrived to amputate the fingers, and the complete caiming and
rapid improvement of a baby under some severe disease."*
§ 118. In a tri'll made upon some privates in the Coldstream
Guards, the first was not affected; the second went to sleep.
"His arm was raised nearly as high as his head, and then let
suddenly to fall, and yet he slept on. After he had slept five-
and-twenty minutes, transverse passes did not awake him, but
he awoke as soon as he was call.?
d by his name." This ex-
periment was repeated several times, and once by the serjeant,
with similar result. On one occasion, when a perso·n who
had not mesmerized him, raised and let drop his arm, he awoke.
§ 119. "A bystander one day begged him to resist to the
utmost his inclination to sleep. He did so, and succeeded, hut
his eyes and nose watered much, and the inclination to sleep
was very great. He said that, had he shut his eyes for onemo-
ment, he must have slept.''
§ 120. After mesmerizing one of the band (G~rrand) for
thirty minutes, with no sensible effect, Mr. Chencvtx t0uched
h:s hand with a silver pencil-case, with the intention of pro-
clueing, according to his ow~ will, t~e sensation of heat or cold.
''The results of the first stx expenments were perfectly cor-
rect,-that is to say, he felt the pencil-case cold when I (Mr.
C.) willed that he should feel it cold, and hot when I willed
that he shoulrl feel it hot, without committing a single mistake;
but when the exneriment was off en repe'lted, he began to err,
and his sen atio'n ceased to be according to my will." Dr.
Whymper tried the same experiment with similar result. .
§ 121. " Garrand's eyes were most strictly blinded; he was
• The Zoist, vol. i.
48 HISTORY OF :MESl\IERISM.
desired to raise both his arms, and being asked whether he felt
anything in either of them, he satd, "No." .-\ piece of paper,
weighing r.;erhaps from one to two grains,. was p~aced npo.n his
right sleeve in such a manner that it was 1mposs1ble for hun to
feel it. He was then desired to raise both his arms, and was
asked, "Do you feel anything?" "Yes." " \Vhat ?" "A
stiffness and weight in my right arm." This was exactly what
Jltfr. 0. had willed. The same experiment was tried upon his
feet, and with similar success, until too often Tepeated. By
mesmerising his patient for two or three minutes, with the in-
tention of jiJ:ing him in the chair in which he sat, on being
told to go, the man rose, but with considerable difficulty, as if
labouring under severe lumbago. A minute's demesmerising
removed the pains.
§ 1.22. Sir B. Brodie, Drs. Milligan, Prout, Holland, and
Babington, it is said, were satisfied that an epileptic girl seemed
to be sent to sleep by Mr. Chenevix, but did not see reason to
assent to his view that the sleep was produced by magnetic in-
fluence. Professor Farraday doubted the reality of the sleep.
"His doubt :}.rose from the girl coughing and putting her hand
to her mouth at the time."*
§ 123. Dr. Elliotson, writing in 1S37, states that himself,
several medical students, ancl other gentlemen, submitted theca-
selves to the manipulations of Dupotet. On sowe, no eliect!l
whatever were proclncerl; in the greater number," tingling or
some strange sen;;ation in the arms, legs, or face, frpquently
with little twitching;;, an oppression ami unusual hea\·ing of
the chest in respiration; anct some always felt a heaviness or
unusual sensation about the forcheau, and Even drowsiness, con-
vincing them that they were under some strange influence, and
on repetition, experienced nothing more; I (Dr. E.) was mes-
merised frequently, ancl always, but once, with the eflect of
t.inglin~ and twitching, only."t
~ 1·2<1. In the year fullowing, however, Dr. E. witnessed fat·
more extraordinary elli•cts, in the young females, Jane and Eli-
zabeth Okey. These g-irls were fii·st ma~netisL·rl by passes in
the usual way, hut their susceptibility afterwarus hc<·ame ex-
treme. Tea, a penknife, a watch, touclwd by the magnetiser,
anrl placed in the hand of the patient, magnetisecl her immedi-
ately. \Vater previously touched or breathed upon, goltl, and
e;;per:ially uickel, pre\'iously held in the magnetiser's l1and,
W011ld cause immediate stupnr Lead was inert. A slip of
crumpled paper and a piece of oilskin prutluced no eflcct.
§ l~'i. Two ditlerent states <>eem to have been inducecl,
mesmeric coma, clui·ing- which the pr.tient was pcrfec~tly devoid
of sensibility and consciousness; and exstatic deli1·iwn, when
~- The Zoist, vol. i., loc. cit. t E:lliotson's Physiology, p. 68'l.
HISTORY OF !I'IESMERISM. 49
she became loquacious, obedient to her magnetiser, and mani-
~este~ the most wonderful of her mesmeric powers. \Vhilst
m thts latter sta~e, the coma might be induced instantaneously,
and thus the patient be rendered fixed and motionless, in what-
ever posture she happened to be at the instant.
§ 12G. "A magnetised sovereign having been placed on the
floor, Jane Okey, then in a state of delirium, was directed to
stoop and pick it up. She stooped, and having raised it about
three inches, was fixed in a sound sleep in that constrained
position. Dr. Elliotson pointed his finger at her, when her
hand immediately relaxed its grasp of the coin, and she re-
awoke into a state of delirium, exclaiming, 'God bles10 my
soul.'"*
§ 127. When employed many act, or speaking, at the mo-
ment of being thrown into the mesmeric stupor, the act was
continued, or the same words repeated over and over again,
until the patient was demagnetised; thus, Okey, in one in-
stance, was deprived of the power of moving every part except
the right fore-finger, with which she was rubbing her chin at
the time; she continued to rub her chin during the whole of
her trance. On another occasion, she was thrown to sleep
when pronouncing the word" you," and continued to repeat 1t
until awakened.
§ 12S. One day when leaving the room, Elizabeth was
touched and instantly sent to sleep by a sleeve-cuff that had
been accidentally magnetised by a spectator. Another time,
when she was employed in writing, a magnetised sovereignt
was placed upon her boot. " In half a minute, her leg was
paralyzed, rooted to the floor. perfectly immovable at the jointe,
and visited, apparently, with pain so intense, that the girl
writhed in agony. The muscles of the leg were founri as rigid
and as stiff as if-they had been carved in wood. When the
sovereign was removed, the pain left her in a quarter of a
minute.":j:
§ 120. During the existence of the magnetic delirium, which
lasted for an indefinite time-once, for twelve days-Okey was
an admirable mimic, gave shrewd and witty, but often extrava-
gant answers to questions; could see with the back of her hand,
predicted the course of her own ailment, the means of cure,
the death or recovery of other patients. She declared th~t a
tall ne.
O'ro appeared to her and told her what answers to gtve;
and th~t, when a patient was to die, she saw the angel of death,
whom she called" Great Jacky," sitting on the bed-clothes
§ 13D. At the experiments performed on the two Okeys by
• Mackay, vol. iii. p. 380. •
t Dr. Elliotson states that he has frequently "mesmensed one .sove.
reign, among many, with his eye alone." ( !) t Ibld.
n
50 HISTORY OF MESMERISM,
Mr. Wakley, at his own house, Dr. Elliotson and others were
present. Dr. E. Havin~ thrown Elizabe~h into the magn~tic
state, Mr. \Vakley· applted altemately pieces of magnetised
nickel and lead, for some time without any effect, but at length
the catalepsy occurred, and 1asted a quarter of an hour. During
the next experiment, a gentleman present said, in a whisper,
a)1(.l with much sincerity," Tak~ care, don't apply the nickel
too strongly," when the face of the gi111 immediately became
violently red, "het· eyes were fixeJ in an intense s'luint; she
fell back convulsively in her chair, anJ all the previous symp-
toms were produced more powerfully than before. Dr. Elliot-
son obs·erved that the effects were mo~t extnordinary; that no
other metal than rriC'kel could produce them, and that they pre-
sented a beautiful series of phenomena. This paroxysm lasted
half an hour. Mr. Wakley retired, with Dr. E. and the other
gentleman, into an adjoining room, and c·onvinced them th:1t
he had used no nickel at all, but a piece of lead and a. farthing.
This experiment was twice repeated with the same result. A
third trial was macl:e; nickel was used, and no effect produced."
In seven successive experiments with glasses of water, magne-
tised and not magnetised, no effect whatever resulted.
§ 131. From twenty-nine experiments, it was found that
''sovereigns unmesmerised threw the girls into convulsions, or
fixed them. Mesmerised sovereigns sometimes did and some-
times did not produce those symptoms. Elizabeth Okey be-
cam~ repeatedly fixed when drinking unmagnetised water;
whilst magnetised water freCJuently produced no effect."
§ 1J:2. Dr. Elliotson continued his investigations, and has
since published a further account of the Okeys.* They would
be mesrnet·isetl by mereiy touching an animal, and with a rapi-
dity and intensity always proportionate to the size of the ani-
mal. Placing the finger on the nose of a §>mall deer caused
mere rigidity and concussion of the head; of a large deer, stu-
pefaction, and, at la.~t, perfect insensibility and relaxation.
Touching the dry rough trunk of an e~ephant had no effect, but
the instant that the elder Okey "touched the soft, moist, mu-
cous membrane of the trunk of this immense beast, she dropped
senseless, and snored loudly, and did not become sensible for
ten minutes."
§ 133. "These sisters," writes Dr. E., "exhibit perfect
specimens of double consciousness ; the most remarkable, per-
haps, on record. In their exstatic delirium they know nothing
of what has occurred in their natural state ; they know not
who they are, nor their ages, nor anything which they learnt
in their healthy state; and in their natural state, they are per-
fectly ignorant of all that has passed in their delirium. They
.. Physiology, Appendix-in 1810.
.HISTORY OF l\1:ESMERISM. 51
would then, indeed, spe?k; but their minds were nearly blank;
they knew nobody, nor the names, nature, nor use of anything:
they l·ad to learn everything afresh. For about a twelvemonth,
whate.ver was told them they believed ; and whatever name
was gtven to them for a thing, they invariably adopted. Not
knowing what the terms father and mother meant, and the elder
being told that I was their father, and Mr. \Vood their mother,
they always considered these words as applicable to us only.
. . . . This state ha.> gradually improved; so that though at
this moment, while in it, they know nothing of their natural
mode of existence; they arc comparatively sane ; they have
learnt afresh to read, wriLc, work, &c. in this state; and behave
extremely well, and speak nearly like other people, talk very
little nonsense, and are only rather odd. ·whenever they have
been brought out of this state, during now three years, they, on
coming into their natural state, lose all the intermediate period,
and connect the pres-ent moment with the last of their natural
state, when they were thrown asleep. Vice vers/l-when, by
being sent into mesmeric sleep in their natural state, they wake
up into the delirium, the present moment is continuous with
the b.st of their former delirium. I have allowed the interval
to be days, weeks, months, and never once have I witnessed a
shadow of inconsistency; never once have they betrayed in one
state a trace of knowledge obtained in the other state, or of
anything connected with it, or a trace of the character of the
other state."*
THE FACTS OF MODERN MESMERISM.
§ 134. So numerous and so contradictory are the circum-
stances recorded as facts by the mesmerists, during the last
three or four years, that it is impossible to comprehend, still
more to rept·esent, what the advocates of mesmerism consider
to be the present state of its doctrines. On this account, the
only unexceptionable motl.e of presenting the so-called facts of
modern mesmerism i11 their true colours, appears to be, to select
several of the accredited works in favour of mesmerism which
have been published within the last few years, and concisely
to analyze their contents. The works mentioned belowt have
"Elliotson's Physiology, p. 1166.
t l. Facts in i\lesmerism. By the Rev. C. H. Townshend. Lonrlon :
1844.
2. The Z'list-containing Dr. Elliotson's papers. 1943--1.
3. The Phreno· \1agnet, edited by Spencer T. Hall, Esq. London : 1843.
4. Animal :Ylagnetism. By A. Teste, M.D., of Paris. Translated by Dr
Spillan. London : 18-13.
5. Animal :\1agnetism. By Edward Lee, Esq. London : 1~-l3:
6. Facts in Mcsmeri~m. By Charles Caldwell, M.D., Lou1snlle, Ky
184'2.
52 HISTORY: OF .MESMERISM.
been chosen as containing the latest exposition of mesmerism
in France, Americ'i, and our own country.
CON"DITIONS OF MESMERIC SUSCEPTIBILITY.
§ 135. Statistics.-Out of thirty-one persons ~esmerized in
two years, sleep-waking was fully developed _m f~urt~en.­
Townshend. Of one hundred persons magnetised m l• ranee
by Ricard, somnambulism was mduced in twenty-five.-La.
A friend of Dr. Caldwell mesmerized fourteen out of fifteen.
Dr. C. himself succeeded in " a heavy majority" of those on
whom he operated.
§ 136. Jujluence of Sex, .IJ.ge, Health, Mind, ~~.-Not on~y
does a certain degree of intelligence appear requlSlte for the fa-
vourable manifestation of the mesmeric phenomena, but persons
in perfect health have frequently exhibited them.. Fear a~d ner-
vous agitation are wholly incompatible with their genmne de-
7. Mesmerism and its Opponents. By the Rev. George Sandby. Lon-
don: 1844.
8. Me~merism ; with Reports of Cases develOJled in Scotland. By Wm
Lang, Esq. Edinburgh : 1843. .
9. Trials of Animal Magnetism on the Brute Creation. ~.Y John Wil-
son, MD. London · 1839.
10. The Rationale of Magnetism, Animal ·and Mental, &c. By Samuel
Spurrell. London : 1844.
11. Neurypnology. By James Braid, Esq., M.R.C.S.E. London: 1843.
And also, for convenience of reference, though the author is by no
means to be enrolled amongst the supporters of mesmerism, as com-
monly understood, many of his views being ingenious and philoso-
phical,
12. Lectures. By J.P. Catlow, Esq. Reported at length in the Man-
chester Guardiap f~r 1842 ; and
13. A Paper by the same, on the Fallacy of Mesmero-Phrenology, in
the North of England Magazine.
As far as brevity will. allow, the extracts from these works are given
in the words of their authors. Many passages are placed in juxtapo·
sition, as rP-ferring to the same subject, whir.h, in the original work, are
perhaps widely separated. SuJ'erfiuous parts are omitted-though in
no instance is the meaning compromised-when, with that exception,
the words of the original are copied verbatim. On this account, marks
of quotation are seldom used, unless the expression seems intended to
be emphatic, or the construction of the sentence is peculiar. ltalics
are always copied ; but they are also frequently introduced where
they are not met with in the original. The facts are not selected for
the purpose of opposing mesmerism ; on the contrary, the facts upon
which each author appears to lay the moat stres~, and in many cases
all the facts he furnishes, are presented. No arguments could con-
fute the assertions of the mesmerists ~o completely as the facts they
adduce to support them; and no change could be made in the lan-
guage in which many of these facts are conveyed, without lessening
their manifest absurdity, and, pro tanto, weakening their anti-me~meric
~orce. On trying to in_v~st them with a dress of his own, only approach-
Ing the style of the ongmal, the copy appeared so like a burlesque that
the writer felt sure the authors of the mesmeric faets themselves ~ould
have considered it such
l!ISTORY OF MESMERISM. 5a
velopment. Sensibility, not weakness, is the real condition on ,
which ~esmerism depends. Each successive time a person is
mesmensed, he becomes more easy of mesmerisation, and more
at home in his new capacities. Out of twenty-three in whom
sleep-waking was induced, more or less perfectly, six only
were women, one only a decided invalid. One of: the persons
at Cambridge upon whom no effect could be produced, "was
determined to resist the infiuencey and to that end was solving
an abstruse mathematical problem" all the time he was being
mesmerised. A boy, aged fifteen, mesmerises his broth~r, aged I
eleven.- Townshend.
§ 137. Weak persons, and sick and feeble-minded persons,
are not in the least more susceptible than the healthy, and
strong, and resolute. Those who are subject to sleep-waking,
and the more singular forms of hysteria, are almost all suscep-
tible. Old people are often susceptible, and males, probably, as
much so as females. Sometimes there is extreme suscepti-
bility whilst there is disease, and none afterwards when the
disease is cured. Mrs. C- was mesmerised at the first attempt
in fifteen minutes·1 but never could be since. Even such a slight
feverish illness as- a cold lessens susceptibility.-Elliotson.
§ 138. Children are often easily magnetised. Sick and deli-
cate persons are m0re susceptible of the magnetic influence
than those in robust health. Where the.t;e is- any unequal ac-
tion, any irregularity in the system, any improper or feeble
circulation, any extreme or overwrought activity of the cerebral
or nervous temperament,. there the mesmeric influence seems
to produce an effect. Its temlency appears to be, to restore
the equilibrium of a distudJed or irregula1· distribution of the
nervous power.-Sandby_
§ 139. Women, gPnerall)" speaking,. are incompaJably more
susceptible of the magnetic influence than men. They have
more sensibility, more tendency to the marvellous, more ven-
eration, less energy, less pride, and, in consequence of all these
circumstances, a livelier faith, which constitutes one of the
mosi. necessary conditions to the production of magnetic phe-
nomena. Many men may be magnetised, and have been so;
but most of them, it should be remarked, very much resembled
women in the weakness and delicacy of their organization ;
or they happened to be ~\aced in physiolo~ical cond!tions,
which depnved them for a time of the prerogatives of the1r sex.
Children can scarcely be magnetised. Old people not without
difficulty. The first approach of youth and adolescence appear
to be the periods of life, ae which magnetism succeeds ?est;
but it is chiefly at the beo·inning, and during the first penods,
of puberty, that young gi~ls are most susceptible of its action .
In general, persons of the nervous temperament are most sus-
ceptible. It is chiefly in emaciated persons, enfeebled by some
54 HISTOR1£ OF MESMERISM.
chronic disease, that it is easy to produce magnetic phenomena.
-Teste.
§ 140. ·women are mesmerisable more easily, and m a larger
proportion, than men; and delicate, sensitive, and weakly wo-
men, more easily than robust and less sensitive ones. Men
can be mesmerised as certainly and as deeply as women, though
not in so large a proportion. Persons, when in perfect health,
are as certainly and as easily mesmerised as when they are
sick ; and, in many cases, more so. " I have known mesmeric
sleep to be retarded, and rendered less perfect, if not actually
prevented, by indisposition."-Caldwell.
§ 141. A temperament, composed of about three parts ner-
vous, and one of bilious, is the most susceptihle.-.71-Ir. Prest,
in the Ph1·eno-..Magnet.
§ 14'2. It is not the persons who, in their waking-state, pos-
sess the greatest amount of knowledge, or mental qualifications,
who are brought to perfect somnambulic lucidity. Experience
has proved, on the contrary, that it is generally the most igno-
rant and common individuals who most fi:equently arrive at
this extreme development of the faculties, and who attain most
quickly to perfection.-Ricard, quoted by Lee.
§ 143. With children, and persons of weak intellect, or of
restless and excitable minds, Mr. Braid states that he has al-
ways been foiled in his ndeavours to produce hypnotism,
though most anxious to succeed.
CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR PRODUCING MESMERIC
PHENOMENA.
§ 144. Health, strength, &(c., of operator.-A physical sym-
pathy between the parties seems the first requisite. A supe-
rior state of health, or of muscular energy, or of mental power,
on the p'l.rt of the mesmeriser over the patient, seems another
condition; and yet this is by no means invariable, or without
exceptions.-Sandby.
§ 145. On the Okeys, the effect was always proportionate to
the greatness of surface brouglot into contact, (§ 132 ;) or if
there was no contact, to the proximity of the operator, the ra-
pidity of the passes, the sizP of the surface with which the
pass was made, the greatness of the living mass with which the
part making the pass was connected-for example, the larger
the operator, or the greater the number of persons with whom
he connected himself-the greater the effect. And yet, Eliza-
beth Okey, who was "a small, feeble .girl," mesmerised a wo-
man who had a" jumping fit," and mitigated the attack very
considerably.-Elliotson.
§ 146. I7ffluence of the will.-" By exercising my influence
over the wrll ?.f the sleepwaker, I could, at any time, compel
HISTORY OF ME:SMERISl\-1. 55
him to execute whateve~ was in the compass of his ability.
That my own state of mmd, or body, or both, influenced the
sleepwaker, it was impossible to doubt. On days when my
thoughts were pre-occupied, or my health a little out of order
the patient in the mesmeric state was dull, spiritles.;;, and dis~
inclined to exertion. Mesmeric phenomena really shew that
the mesmeriser's will sways the patient's volition in a very
peculiar n;tanner. In mesmerism, it is the mind which origi-
nates the 1mpuJ.se. I have always found that metaneric efiects
were always in exact proportion to the degree of voluntary
effort I put into the performance."
§ 1<
17. A fellow traveller in a coach i · seat to s.ieep and
awoke ag.lin hy a silent exertion of the will. Anna M--, a
practised patient, is twice magnetised when supposed not to be
expectin~ it, .iR a similar way. .At nine o'clock one evening,
Anna, betng m her own house, dtstant a quarter of a mile, sud-
denly falls fast asleep and cannot be awakened by her mother
and sisters, but awakes spontaneously in an hou.r. Hermes-
meriser, at his own house, had willed that she should fall
asleep at nine, and awake at ten o'clock.-Townshend.
§ US. " The will is in a manner everything with me in mag-
netism; and the r.rt of the magnetiser is reduced to knowing
how to impress his wil'l opportvmely. Thus the magnetic fluid
is moved by the will; but since it is our organs which serve it
as conductors, the gestures become in consequence i.he indis-
pensable auxiliaries of ail mental action."
§ 148 Ro alia is magnetised. Her operator then leaves the
room, and magnetiscs a step on the stairs pointed out by an in-
credulous bystander. Rosalia is roused up and allowed tore-
tire to her beJt·ool1'l. In five minutes she is found fixed, im.
movable, on the tenth step, the one over w·hich the rnagneti3er
had made passes, and which he had willed should aftect her.
She says th:J.t there escaped from the step a hot ·apour which
sent her to sleep.
§ lYJ. Any object a.r:pears to the sleepwaker o_f wh.atever
form the mesmenser w~lls. Thus, the operator wtlls stlently
th<lt the iloor shall seem a ploughed field, or a frozen river;
and the patient Ros:tlia says that she sees it as such accordingly.
He will that an imaginary cord shall encircle the neck of the
somnambulist. Ros1lia crirs out," Ah, :':ir! how this s ~1ucezes
my neck." He wills that a barrier shall exist _in an open door-
way. Rosalia cannot pass through, and excl,ums, "The door
is barred."
§ 15l. By his un~x~r~ssed will, the m~gnettse~· is able. to
render real objects mvtstbte, and to make. tdea.l ob~ects w htch
are not present visible to the somnam?u~Jst. A stmple I?ag-
rtetic pass is sufficie!lt, the operator Wllhng ~t the same time,
for a piece of furmture, a person, or a portiOn of a room, to
56 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
disappear to a somnambulist. On the other hand, the ~esme­
riser mentally, but in silence, determines tlnt Rosal1a shall
see a little girl seated on a certain chair : he makes passes ?vcr
this chair. Rosalia, sleepwaking, says that she sec~ "l1ttle
Hortense." She then leaves the room. The magnetlser now
moves the chair into six different places before he fixes it. On
re-entering, Rosalia sees "not one litlle girl, but six little
girls." She says in explanation, "In good faith, Si1·, you need
not have removed the chair fi·om its place, then I should have
seen bu-t one child; but everywhere you put it down, the fluid
passed through, and formed a child quite 1ike 1!o that one which
is above."
~ 15'2. «On a great number of small cards there were writ-
ten beforehand ~he different movements which the persons
present may make the- somnambulist perfoFm, by presenting to
the magnetism· such of the cards as·may express their desire.
Ricard, after this plain admonition, repeated each time, ' Cal-
lixte, my friend, pay attention, I am going to speak to yott ;'
:reads mentally the phrase or plnases which were just pre·
sented to him, adds not a word, makes no gesture, and Cal-
hxte, who constantly has the bandage on him, obeys his
thought."-§ 39.-Teste.
§ 153. The will, in some cases, is- alone sufficient (the sub-
ject being at a distance, and unconscious of the operator's in-
tention) for the production of mesmeric somnambulism, and
the manifestation of its most ex1lraordinary phenomena. In
such cases, tlze facility of expePimenting successfully is aug-
mented not a little by the rnesmeriser havingfrequently oper-
ated on his patient. Several• cases are given, in which the
'lOmnarnuulist names any inChvidual thought of by the mesmer-
iser.-(Vrdc § 370.)-0'aldwell.
§ 13·1. A hdystated her intention of magnetising the younger
of her two daughters, who were seated together at a piano in an
adjoining room, separated from the one in which she herself
~as by foldi11g d<>ors. On proceeding to carry her intention
~nto effect, magnetisation was produced, after a brief period,
In th~ young lady, who was not awa1e of what was going on,
her s1ster not hemg at a1l affected.-Lee.
§ 15:5·. A certain mesmerised patient is insensible to any
vo1cc b~t that of the operator. It is silently intimated to the
~esmenser to 'U!i l! that his· patient should be sensible to what
rs done and sa1d by others.
. She then di3tinctly feels, hears,
and answers, to all around her.-Spencer Hall.
§ 10.G. Of M\. La.rrg's first patient it is stated, "We aU in
turn tr~ed her w1th s1mple orders! but only expressed mentally,
no.t art1cuhted; and each of us m turn found his wishes com-
phcc1 with." On another occasion she manifested the usual
response to mental orders, an effect being invariably produced
HISTOll. Y OF MESMERISM. 57
by the conception of the command, " although not always the
one desired." (!)
.§ 13G. With the seco_nd patient, the individuals present
willed th,<l she should ra1se one of her hands; this she did, in
every instance, correctly. A bystander !Paves the room, and
"conceives the wish that the patient shall come to him; but
he does not conceive his wtsh till the expiry of three minutes.
When the three minutes had expired," says the reporter, " I
lookeu towarJs the patient, and ob;;erved that she still kept her
seat, but was sitting forward in an attitude of attention, ?.s if
listeniug, and she continued thus for nearly three minutes
longer. Thinking that the experiment had failed, I said to the
oper.J.tor that he had better speak to her. Be accordiugly ap-
proached her, and taking her hand, inquired if she wanted any-
thing. She said,' What is it you wish me to do?'-' Nothing,'
he answered; ' I did not wish anything.' But he had misun-
derstood her question. It was evident from what followed that
she was asking for directions ii·om him as to what she ought
to do. He then said to her, ' Do you hear anything ?'-·· Yes,'
she replied; 'a voice calls me.'-' Well then, go,' said the
operator. She paused on this, and then said, 'Always asking
something improper.' She now rose from her seat, and carne
into the middle of the room; but the light from the fire, into
which this movement had brought her, seemed to confuse her,
and after some hesitation, she said to the operator, 'I cannot
find the way-put rne on the way.' On this he led her to the
door, and set her face towards the darkness. As soon as this
was done, she went on with confidence and without hesitation,
walked through the dark passage, went straight into the room
in which the gentleman was, and proceeded to the particular
corner in which he was standing."
§ 157. Of another case tbe operator writes,-" I have lat-
terly several times put the patient to sleep without her know-
ledge or consent, by stealing behind the chair while sewmg,
and making a few passes over the back o~ t!1e head.. Once or
twice I have put her asleep by merely w1lhng that 1t should
take place, without expressing my will, either by wo_rd. or .a~­
tion. Another powerful proof of the will over cert~m md1v1·
duals while in the sleep is the fact of any person bemg able to
cause her to come to them (him?) by silently willing it. This
she will do while blindfolded; and although a dozen persons
be in the room, she has invariably gone to the individual w~ll­
ing her, and describes, at such times, that she feels sornethmg
irresistibly drawing her forward, and cannot stay back by any
effort of her own. I can also awake her at any time by merely
willing it, without any contact whatever.''-Lang.
§ 158. "I am certain I never produced any effect by my
will. In experiments of all sorts, and on all parts, I have
58 HISTORY OF MESli!ERI lli.
willed most intensely and most perseveringly, and done nothing
else, and no effect ever came. I have willed most intens ly,
and a:t the same time st:ll'erl at the situation of a cerebral orga.n,
or breathed two hundred times over a cerebral organ, and all in
vain; whereas an accidental pointing at it has excited it. I have
pointed, or made passes, or gazed, willing most intensely and
perseveringly, and not wi~ling at all, but thinking of an} thing
except the matter before me, and the effects have ~orne as soon
in the latter case as in the former. Perfect scepltcs and ene-
mies of mesmerism every day produce effects by passes, point-
ing, &c., against their will, and persons often produce effects
without thin-
king of mesmerism at all."
§ 159. Thomas Russen, who had been mesmeriseJ by Dr.
Elliotson for an attack of deafness and dumbness, brought on by
fright, was afterwards magnetised by his master, who states-
" I mesmerised him thi:> morning by will merely, and when he
was engaged in conversation with some friends of mine who
were in the room, and afterwards he took it into his head to go
off when I was passing the room he was sitting in. He seems
such an imaginative youth that he will be falling off his perch
whenever he sees me or thinks of me." He afterwards had
another attack in consequence of hearing a conversation at
dinner on deafness,"dumbness, and loss of'sight, amongst other
subjects. He went out ·of the room and had a fit. On coming
round in about half an hour, he made signs that he -could not
"speak, or hear, or see."-Elliotson.
§ 160. Patients may be hypnotised entirely through the ima-
gination; but the most expert hypnotist may exert all his en-
deavours in vain if the party do@S not expect it, and mentally
and bodily comply, and thus yield to it.-Braid.
§ 161. The editor of the "Magnet" states, that "he has
operated on hundreds of different suqjects, has experimented
with the magnet, with the galvanic battery, with electricity,
with minerals and metals of all kinds, and in every imaginable
way, wi'th passes and with the will; and he finds that he can
produce precisely the same results without any magnet, or
electricity, or battery, or metals, or minerals, or passes, or
will, at all ! True, the sleep may be induced by a battery or
electrical machine, but it may be induced equally as well with
a chair or a block of wood, or without any means whatever, ex-
cept the mere process adopted for the purpose, or by the mere
direction or requ_est of the ~perato:. We have caused subjects
to fall asleep agam and agam, wh1le we were willinu them to
keep a~ake all the whi~e. Take any·subject who is highly
susceptible, and cause htm to apprehend you are willing him
to go to sleep, an~ during the sitti_ng you. will him not to go to
sleep, _and yo~ w1ll find t~at ~e w1ll fall m~o the somnipathetic
state, m desptt of your wtll, JUSt as certamly as he is suscep-
HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
tible, and apprehends what the result shonld be."-Rev. La
Roy Sunderland, Editor of the New York Jllfagnet.
~ 102. Mesmeric power of inanimate objects.-A piece of
silver or copper caused the sleepwaker's hand to become and
remain rigidly shut. If the mesmeriser closM the hand with-
out any coin,. the same result ensued. A pri~m, turned with
the point towc>rds the patient, produced in two several cases
starling and slight shudderings. A mineral magnet, concealed
in the operator's hand, when extended towards the patient,
caused startings, convulsive movements in the hands, and a
sense of col(lness. In three sleepwakers the south pole of the
magnet attracted powerfully; the north pole repelled. Some-
times the north pole woultl cause the patient's head to retreat
by jerks, as if driven backward by successive shocks. A pair
of scissors caused shuddering. Of different precious stones,
when presented to the forehead,, some produced agreeable,
others disagreeable feelings. Some felt hot,. others scratched
as if they would tear the skin off the face.. Diamond was
agreeable; opal was soothing; emerald unpleasant; sapphire
positively painful, and felt rough, though it was polished;
whilst a diamond felt smooth, though it was cut in facets-
Townshend.
§ 153. The introduction of any foreign body into the hand,
such as a key, produced intense rigidity, and farther, this effect
only took place to a very limited extent, or not at all when. th.e
foreign body had been previously handled and breathed en by.
the operator. (First case.) Metals applied over the stomach,
without the aid of the mesmeriser, afforded relief when it was
disordered. Gold applied to the patient's hand,,rendered it
rigid; silver removed this state. Silver, ngain, in its turn,
would produce rigidity, and gold take it away, and so with
other metals. By placing a piece of gold in the lips, a fixity
similar to lock-jaw has been produced. The patient has been
awakened in this state, when no power she conld exert could
open the month; but instantly, upon another metal being applied,
the fixity was gone. (Third case.) "The patient can he at-
tracted through any part of 1he ho_use by the ope~ator holding a
piece of gold ne~r to her head., and If the head be sllgh.tly touched
by it, a convulsrve shu~lder IS the consequen.ce, w1th. the ex-
pression of extreme pam. She always desenbes a bnght yel-
low flash of light, and a feeling of great pain when so touc~ed.
Iron has a very disagreeable, and similar effect as gold." Fifth
case.-Laug.
§ 1G1. In a mesmerised boy, gold appliecl to the palm caused
the hand to close; inm rubbed on the back of the han.d caused
the hand to open, except once, when if ha~ an ?pposrt~ effect
(which is ascribed to the friction with the 1ron mcrell:su~g the
power of the gold, and overpowering the mere antagomstJc pro-
60 HISTORY OF MESl\'IERISM.
perty of the iron!) Friction with the finger wetted with saliva,
on the back of the hand, caused the hand to open. On another
occasion, after applying a mesmerised sovereign to the palm,
the hand closed, and any metal touched by the gold had the
same effect. The palm was rubbed with the poker. and it
closed a"ain firmly, " the friction probably overpowering the
specific influence of the iron."(!) After rendering the th~ghs
ri5id by rubbing and suffering th.em to r~lax, ~ mesmenscd
shilling was placed under the pat1ent's thighs w1thout effect;
a mesrneris8d sovereign being substituted, both lower extremi-
ties were slightly agitated. A mesmerised shilling put into the
hand of another patient, produced agitation of the parl and dis-
tre3s in the countenance; placed upon his under lip, it set the
lips and tongue in motion. When placed upon his head, it
caused agitated movements of the whole head. "Mr. S. (the
mesmeriser) wetteJ his own finger with saliva, and touched the
back of his hanJ with it, and he presently began to rub his
hand violently with the other; and the hand and arm were at
the same time a3itated, and hP- moaned and his countenance
expressed great distress for a minute or two, till Mr. S. quieted
him, thougl1 with difficulty, by wiping his hand and strokin~
down his arm. A mesmerised sixpence was placed upon a fold
of the bosom of his shirt, a full inch from his body, but in
half a minute convulsions of the whole trunk supervened. Mr.
S. wetted with saliva a piece of paper less than half-an-inch
square and placed it on his boot, and in half a minute he began
to kick his leg about and rub it with the other, struck and
rubbed the inside of the lower third of his thigh with his hand,
and cried out that something was coming into his thig_h, his
countenance all the time expre3.>in~ great anguish, and It was
with much difficulty he was tran1nillized. Mr. S. again wetted
his own finger and applied it this time to the patient's lip :
motion of the ton;ue and jaw took place, and he several times bit
his lip so hard that the marks of his teeth were left in it. He
appeared in such distress, and the convulsive motions of the
legs returned ~o fre r1uently, that Mr. S. endeavoured to awake
him, but in vain. The respiration was at this time extremely
slow. After the lapse of several minutes, he spontaneously fell
into his ordinary calm sleepwaking, and, on his face being but
once blown upon, awoke, but with a severe headache."
§ 165. Mesmeris d moYJey and paper produced the usual
effects, when placed under or upon him, even without his
kn~wl~dge. "When I avoided mesmcrisin~S them first, the
ag~tatwn was the same, and he tossed about in his chair, ag if
he knew that they were there; but not if he was io-nora:1t of
t~eir l?resence-iinagination thus producing what ~esmcrisa­
twn d1J when there could be no imasr;ination. '' (?)
§ 166. In one case, when the limbs were rigidly extended,
HISTORY OF MES::I1ERISM. 61
nickel caused the left arm and leg to relax ; gold effected the
same on the right extremities. In another, a mesmerised gold
watch placed in the patient's hand had no effect. A half-crown
c~~sed grinding _of the teeth, general rigidity, apparent insensi-
bility, and the bps were convulsed as before a fit. Nickel re-
moved all this. A sovereign had the same effects as the half-
crown, and the nickel eqnally removed them. The watch was
tried again, and it now acted as the sovereign had done; so
likewise did pieces of mesmorised ivory and glass, and the
nickel at once removed th eir cm~cts. Mesmerised iron and
zinc caused rigidity and grinding of the teeth, which ceased on
the removal of the metals. Oa another occasion, a rough
piece of nickel acted in the same way, and caused a sensation
of coldness; a smooth piece of the same metal removed the
effects, and felt warm and comfortable.
§ 167. Another patient is distressed beyond measure if a
piece of gold is phced on his hand afler lying on the ha~d of
anolher person, but not at all if it had been taken from the
mesmeriser's hand. " Nay," says Dr. E., " if the gold is
taken off my right hand and pbced upon his left, or off my
left and placed upon his right, he is distressed, and shakes it
off, and if it is placed in his palm, violent spasm of the hand
occurs; though he expresses no uneasine::;s when it is taken
from my right and placed on his right, or from my left and
placed upon his left. Neither temperature, nor anything but
occult property, can explain these wonderful facts (! !) ....
Different metals have different powers on different persons."-
Elliotson
§ 1G8. Somnambulists are very sensible to the contact, and
even to the approach of metallic substances. Copper, in par-
ticular, affects them painfully. Susceptible individuals may
be put to sleep by means of a magnetised ring, hut the sleep in
such cases is often painful.- Trste.
§ 1GO. l\Iagnetiscd water bas a ferruginous taste.- Georget.
A peculiar tast.e.-Foissac. An agreeable taste.-Townshend.
A taste of l;;mon ; of chocolate; of rum, or orgeai., or any
other liquor intended by th ~ magnetise1·.-Teste. Mesmerised
water ha.s a powerful nal"cotlc property. An overdose produces
"paleness, exhaustion, rapidity and extreme smallness of
pul e."-Elliot$on.
§ 170. A .Mr. Pe-nnington informs ~s that a penny (or ot.her
piece of copper) dropped into mesm~ns~d water, rlemagn.etises
it, and destroys its power over the patient. In a certam pa-
tient, when a piece of mag;netizcd iron is brought suddenly be-
fore his face, sleep is produced" as quickly as if 01.used by ll;ll
electric shock.'' Mr. P. placed a small horse-shoe magnet m
one room, and took his patient into another, and told .her to
look in the direction of the poles of the magnet. Tins also
62 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
caused instant sleep. If the mesmeriser handles a magnet,
he loses his magnetic power for a time, the loadstone having
the power of taking away from a person his magnetisintr power.
Hence, it is suggested, that any person wishing to examine a
mesmerised patient, should first disarm himself of all magne-
tic power by touching a common magnet, he would then be in
no danger of inducing the agitation, shuddering, convulsions,
&c., considered to be the usual effects of "cross-magnetism."
§ 171. A German silver pencil-case was placed in the hand
of a mesmerised patient. "The hand and arm stiflcnecl with
mesmeric cramp, the fingers \Yere stretched out laterally, at-
tended with a general shivering of the body." TlJCre was pain
in the hand the next day.
§ 172. Mesmeric sleep was induced in one case by adminis-
tering the protoxide of nitrogen, (nitrous oxide, or laughing
gas.) "The person had never taken the gas before, but had
been..several times mesmerised. On this occasion, he had no
intention of being mesmel'ised, and had even refused, h~ the
earlier part of the evening, to submit to the operation."
Another dose of the g;1s awoke him.
9173. A Mr. Patchett finds that the results he has obtained
from standing upon iron plates, or the application of the poles
of a magnet, whether to the operator or operated', are in no
way dificrent from those of the application of many other
substances, and by no means calculated to establish any gene-
ral proof of the agency of ordinary magnetism in producing
the condition called mesmeric.
§ 17'1. A Mr. Sunter found, by repeated experiments, that
so long as his patient was placed on the insulated stool of an
electrical machine, and charged with the fluid, he could not be
sent into the mesmeric sleep at all, but on removing him from
the stool, Mr. Sunter threw him into the sleep in half a minute,
at two yards distance. It is worthy of remark, that this pa-
tient, on a previous occasion, in his somnambulism, hacl said, in
answer to the question, "What is it that produces the mes-
meric sleep?" " You attract the electric fluidf,"om me, which
produce~ sleep."-Phreno-Jitiagnet.
§ 17;). Patients have been hypnotized whilst positively, and
also whilst negatively, electrified, without any appreciable dif-
ference in the phenomena, so that they appear to be excited
independently of electric or magnetic change. It has re-
reatediy happened that two patients have mutually hypno-
tized e::~ch other by personal contact-a fact irreconcilable
with the theory of a special influence transmitted being the
caus~ of the p~enomena, «plus and minus being equally
effic1ent."-Bratd.
RISTORY OF MESMERISM. 63
VARIOUS MODES OF INDUCING MESMERIC PHENOMENA.
§ 1'1G. Mesmeric influence is in proportion to the energy
employed, and to the rapidity of the mesmeriser's respiration
during the act of mesmerising. It seems capable of aggrega-
tion by passing through different persons. Thus, a patient
already herself in the state of sleepwaking, mesmerises her
sister. The effect was increased when she took one of Mr.
Townshend's hands, whilst he made passes with the other,
the sleepwaker continuing to mesmerise with one hand.
Another sleepwaker informed her magnetiser that if he would
breathe upon his hand, and then lay it on her forehead, his
power would be 'increased. He found this the case." -
Townshend.
§ 177. In making the passes, it is unnecessary to employ
any greater muscular force than what is required to lift the
hand and prevent it from falling. The movements should
be easy, and not too rapid.-Deleuse, quoted by Lang.
§ 178. The greater the certainty with which the patient
anticipates the sleep oP cure to be effected, the better.-La
Roy Sunderland.
§ 179. It is the passive duty of 'the patient wholly to resign
himself, and to thinlc of nothing during his mesmerisation.
As to different passes, in fact all processes succeed when they
inspire confidence in those who employ them. Amongst other
modes described is "insufflation, in which the breath is the
vehicle of the magnetic agent." Rosalia is eighteen leagues
from her magnetiser. The latter addresses to her, by post, a
letter, in which is \'Hitten merely the word "Sleep." This is
~ent three days afterwards. Some minutes after receiving it,
Rosalia falls into a state of somnambulism, during which, she
asserts that she has been put into it by means of the magne-
tised letter.-Teste.
§ 180. By placing his fingers on the forehead for four min-
utes, Dr. Elliotson threw a patient into the mesmeric state.
The same person he mesmerised by pointing his fingers to the
back ofher head, without her knowledge. He has succeeded
in mesmcrising s sceptible patients " without their know-
ledge, behind their backs, and this with the eye only." ...•
" Generally, the pointed parts of the body, as the bent
knuckles, and still more the tips of the fingers, the chin, and
still more the point of the nose (!,) are more efficacious in
producing mesmeric sleep than an equal portion of flat sur-
face." Dr. Elliotson has often known touching the point of
the patient's nose with the tip of his finger produce instant
sleep for a period.
§ 181. Highly susceptible patients will be sent to sleep
through imagination, or the mesmeric .influence of those
64 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
around gazing at them. or one female sleepwaker' it is
stated, "to hold up anything before her, and say you will
mesmerise her through it, though nothing was done, instantly
mesmerises her, as well as merely to stare, or point a finger at
her, for a moment, at a very great distance." Of another, "a
glass of water would send her to sleep for hours, if she said it
would, provided it was mesmerised," though it was never mes-
merised at all; and yet the sleep was "perfectly real "
~ 18:2. "I have three patients," writes Dr. Elliotson, "whom
I was originally some Vl<eeks in sending to sleep, though I gav(;
them each half an hour daily of manipulations ant! gazi11 ~.
but who now go to sleep on my merely raising my han,l, or
looking at them, when they are prepared to expect sleep. I
told each of them that, if she sat still, I would mesmerize her
in the next room through the door; I retired, shut the door be-
hind me, did nothing, but walked on into a further room, turned
back, and found her asleep. So with the other two in succes-
sion. While I did this, I thought as little of them as possible,
and busied myself with anything to distract my attention.''
§ 183. One lady became so susceptible, that Dr. Elliotson
" merely ran into the house, pointed his finger to her eyes for
an instant, reducing her to a state of closed eyes and power-
le:;sness, and left her." He never found the state deepened or
prolonged in this patient by continuing to mesmerise her for
ten or twenty minutes. Another female, on the first attempt,
was thrown into the mesmeric state by pointing for three min-
utes. But on the third trial, pointing for five-anJ.-twenty
minutes did not produce the least drowsiness. It is not unusual
for manifest sleep to be effected, and then cease during a mes-
merisation ; so that it does not recur at that time, though the
process is continued, and even if sleep has been produced and
continue, the continuation of the process may not seem to
deepen or prolong the sleep, the patient may wake just as soon
as if the process is desisted from as soon as sleep takes place.
In other instances-and these are the most common-the sleep,
if it has c .~ased, is renewed by continuing the process; and, if
the sleep has not ceased, it is deepened and lengthened by con-
tinuing the process.
§ 184. Mr. S-- merely begged his patient-a practised
one-to sit down, and leaving him by one door quietly went
round to the other, and mesmerised him through it for five min-
utes. On opening the door, Mr. S-- found him asleep.
§ 185. With the Okeys, coma could be produced through
screens of pasteboard, thin wood, or glass; but screens lessened
the effect in proportion to their thickness.
§ 186. In exciting the cerebral organs, breathing over them
will sometimes succeed, at others, not. Touching is always
more powerful than. pointing, because " all mesmeric power
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 65
usually lessens with distance." The thicker the hair, the
slower the effect ; pointing over the organs with thick gloves
on the fingers, prevents all effect. Sometimes touching with
a paper-knife, corner of a book, &c., will excite them; at
others not. To deepen sleep, there is no surer mode than to
establish contact with the patient. The more extensive the
contact, the greater, in general, the effect.-Elliotson.
§ 187. A patient is magnetised by the ope-rator pbcing hi~
hands upon her head, and then breathing upon it. Another is
"mused out of the mesmeric sleep into the state of sleep-
waking, by calling her by he:v name and asking her a few sim-
ple (jUestions.''-Lang.
§ 18 ·. A lady, describing her own mesmerisation, states that
!'leep is produced in her in about half-a-minute, by the stead-
fast gaze of the magnetiser, or boy his will in another room in
about one minute.
§ 189. On a female entering a room where there was a pa-
tient a\ready mesmerised, she was desired to sit down near to
the person under operation. In about a minute she fell into
the same state. "This;' says the mesmeriser, " was what I
expected :md intended. I now connected their wrists by the
extremities of a silk handker-chief, when, on touching or
pointing with the finger to any organ of either one or the
other, both shewed expressions of features and manifestations
alike, though the 0ne actually operated upon shewed them
rather earlier than the other."
§ 19(}. M~:. Pennington throws patients to sleep by touching
the organ of somnolence ; awakens them by touching con-
sciousness. " On touching one side of consciousness, the one
hemisphere of the brain becomes awake, on which side the or:..
gans cannot then be excited, but they can be excited on the
other side." (§ 22G.),
§ 191. Mr. Pemb>oke found that philoprogeni-tiveness- could
be acted on by poi.nting, anct yet with a stick of sealing wax it
required contact. Pointing with a hollow glass tube produces
cx<'itement of the organ at a grecrter distance than pointing
with the finger alone.
§ J0:2. 'Mr. Jones found that he could excite the cerebral or-
gans by touching them with the poi<nt of a b-lack-lead pencil.
Another patient, who is deaf and dumb, was so susceptible that
a \Yaft of a h:.\ndkerchief five yards. off was sufficient ta throw
him into the mesmeric sleep; a waft of the handkerchief up-
wards would " take him out" of the sleep again. In this pa-
tient, the cerebral organs could be; "powerfully excited durmg
the vigilant state."
§ 193. Mr. Hamilton states that he has procured manifesta-
tions of the cerebral organs :
1. By touching the head with his finger.
E
66 HISTORY OF :MESMERISl\'1.,
2. By pointing, without contact. .
3. By cau:oing pieces of paper, clnlk, charcoal, Ind1a-rubber,
sponge, &c., to be placed on the head by a third person, Mr.ll.
standing at a dist3.nce.
4. By suspending brass weights, and divers other substanc~s,
over the head of the patient, at distances of from two to stx
inches.
5. By causing a third person to pomt at the organ with a
long rod.
6. By p11lling a hair immedrately over the organ.
7. By blowing upon the organ through a glCJ.ss tube.
8. By placing a curved wire on the side organs.
Q. By addres3ing the p3.tient in appropriate language. (!)
§ 19-!. In one case, mesmeric sleep is produced by the
operator making passes near to a wall, on· the other side of
which the patient sat, engaged at the time in conversation, and
perfectly ignrJrant of what was going on.
§ 195. In another case, the patient is magnetised at a dis-
tance ofthree miles, "Joseph Flower was selected as the most
likely subject for the trial, aud he was pla.ced in a room near
the Brightside Railway station; the operator going forward in
the train to Rotherham, a distancE of about three miles. It was
agreed that, at a given time, the manipulations should com-
mence. Flower knew that an attempt would be made to mag-
netise him, but he did not know when. Within a minute of
the agreed time, the subject was asleep, and was at once at-
tracted by a tremendousjo1·ce towards Rotlzerharn. The gen-
tlemen present (six or seven in number) were anxious to take
him out ini.o the open air; but for some minutes their u.nited
strength was unable to accomplish that object. (! !) They at
length, however, succeeded in carrying him out and restoring
him to partial consciousness. In the meantime, the train from
Rotherham was bringing the operator back; as it neared, the
subject became more ca~m, and on being touched by him was
instantly restored.''
§ 196. D·r. Buchanan (of Louisville) mesmerises his patients
• by taking a metallic rod and grasping it firmly, the patient hold-
ing the other end. He considers that the agent is the nervous
fluid, which is thus cond1tcted along the rod into the system of
the patient.-Ph1·eno-Jl1Iagnet.
§ 197. Mr. Braid directs his patient to look at an object, so
placed as to re(jnire «the greatest possible strain upon the eyes
and eyelids." The eyes are to be kept steadily fixed on the
object, and the mind rivetted on the idea of that one object.
Presently the eyel.ids close with a vibratory motion, or become
spasmodic~Uy closed. If it be desired to procure sleep without
excitement or rigidity, and with the pulse and respiration slower
than natural, the patient is directed to close the eyelids and
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 67
bring the eyes loosely upwards, as if looking at an object at a
great dista?ce, t~e eyeballs be~ng turned up only gently, so as
to cause! dtlatatwn of the pup1l; and the limbs placed so as to
rela?' the muscles as ~uch as possible, and thus prevent accel-
eralwn of the pulse. fhe cerebral organs are as well excited by
touching with a glass rod as with the finger.
§ 198. Mr. Catlow, at his public lectures, induced sleep by
acting continuously on any of the five senses. Thus, through
the medium of common sensation, by brushing the forehead
gently with a large camel-hair pencil; by gently brushing the
hair all one way; by brushing the back of the hand ; or the pa-
tient could send himself to sleep by gently rubbing the ball of
one thumb with the other, concentrating his attention upon it.
Through smell, by the inhalation of agreeable odour. Through
taste, by the continued sucking of agreeable substances, as
lozenges. Through hearing, by simply stopping the ears, or by
making a monotonous noise for a long time, as when themes-
meriser repeats the word "cup" very gently and deliberately.
Through sight, by gazing, or by throwing alternately light and
shadow on the eyes of the patient for a length of time. Through
continued slight muscular action, (and hearing conjoined,) as
by the patient himself repeating a word very frequently. A
boy fell asleep after pronouncing the word " cup " 450 times.
And, lastly, by causing the pa~ient to fix his mind upon any
idea, without performing any manual operation whatever. Mr.
Catlow also employed a " Soporific Machine," which by
making a monotonous uoise, and waving a card before the
eyes with a slight fanning sensation, acted upon several of the
sen:>es at once and produced sleep.
MODES OF DEMESMERISING.
§ 199. "The mesmeric sleepwaker cannot awake without
the mcsl'!"leriser's aid. The mesmeric patient can neither throw
off his bonds, nor be delivered from them by other than the
mesmeriscr. I have seen such attempts vainly made, to arouse
a sleepwaker otherwise than by the mesmeriser, that I have
been led to conceive that he might be torn limb from limb (as
certain animals may be in certain states of torpor) without
awaking-. As with the mesmeriser his sleep began, so, it ap-
pears, by the mesmeriser alone can it end; and thus the pe-
culiar slumber, called mesmeric, is not only the proof of a sus-
pende<l will, but of a will subdued and actually held subject by
another"- Townshend
§ 200. The first thing to be done is, to apprise the patient
of your intentions, and to advise him to participate in them;
one-half the business will be done as soon as he will have a
wish to awaken.
v
68 HISTORY OF MESMEltiSM.
§ 201. To demesmerise Madame C., the operator had only
to say the words, "Awake, madame!" and two or three vi?l~nt
frictions, which she could not be prevented from practtsmg
on her eyes, always restored her immediately to life.- Teste.
§ 202. One of Dr. Caldwell's patients is asked if he would
like to wake up. '"Yes. " .. How long before you will awake?"
"A minute." Without any demesmerising process the patient
_ awakes suddenly to the instant.
'• § 203. Another patient is awoke" i1: a moment," by the mere
effort of the op-er.atol''s unexpres5ed w1ll.-Caldwell.
§ 204. A very susceptible patient is stated to have the power
to awaken herself at will,'" which she does by drawing her fi.n-
gPrs in a peculiar manner from the top of her forehead over her
nose, to her upper lip."
§ 205. A Mr. Pembroke gives several cases where the sleep-
waker was aroused by a bystander speaking to him, just as
effectually as he usually is by the mesmeriser.
§ 206. "A Mrs. Barnes," says Mr. Inwards, "will go to sleep
when mesmerised, and then the operator has no power what-
ever to awake her, neither has any other person. You might
as well try to make an impression on a block of wood, as to call
into exercise any of the senses."
§ 207. Pouring water ·"from an altitude of eight or ten
inches, in a: continuous stream" upon the spine and head, and
then slowly down the arms to the finger-ends, taking especial
care not to wet certain "magnetic points," is directed as the
mode of removing the ill effects of cross-magnetism : even
when madness has been caused by cross influence, Mr. Spen-
cer Hall declares that he had found this method successful.-
Phreno-Magnet.
§ 208. Sometimes the patient is on1y partially awoke, though
apparently fully roused. This is a condition of real danger; the
patient has no more self-control or management of his actions
than a child or idiot, and yet for a time will converse most sen-
sibly, and recognise every person present. "I have seen this
distinctly in two patients.''- Sandby.
§ 209. .llll mesmerised patients will in time awaken of
themselves.*-Merely raising one or both eyelids will awake
some, if net, blowing upon the exposed eyeball will. Some-
times the eyelids remain closed after the mesmer,ic coma is
aver, and cannot be opened without much breathing upon them,
or passes with the ends of the fingers and thumbs, or the steady
application of these upon them, or pointing at them with these
or ,,orne pointed body perhaps metallic.
§ 210. One patient could only be awakened by transverse
• In his Physiology, Dr. Elliotson states "possibly after many hours, or
8ome days."
D
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 69
movements of both thumbs together over the eyebrows. Trans-
t•erse passes on any other part produced no effect, and unless
the thumbs were moved together, no effect was produced. Traoo-
verse pas ·es by the thumbs of two persons at the same time, one
passing his thumb along one e.Yebrow, and the other his along
the other, had no effect; nor d1d transverse passes of the eye-
brows with different substances awake her. But the thumbs
of the same person who used these substances, though covered
with four folds of silk, awoke her.
§ 211. ''To awaken another p:1tient," says Dr. Elliotson, "at
last I made outward passes with my thumbs on my own eye-
brows. He did the same on his own, and immediately awoke
in his natural state."
§ 212. Many patients can only be awakened in a prrrticular
way: and what is remarkable, a way which was perfectly and
instantly successful, will wear out-will lose its efficacy, and
anotaer mode will at .;,nee succeed. If the patient can speak
in the mesmeric state, and there is any difficulty, it is best to
prevail upon him to tell you some mode of waking him. At
last, the efficient mode, m·dered by the patient himself, may
lose its efficacy, and he must be made to tell you another.
§ 213. If an epi-leptic fit occur during the process of mes-
merising, it may be proper to desist till this is over; but in
general the fit yields the sooner to a steady continnance of the
passes, or to passes down the chest and back with contact,
transverse passes before and behind the trunk, or to-what is
often better--breathing very slowly and assiduously upon the
eyes, nose, and mouth, or the bosom, and holding the uatient's
hands in our own.
§ 214. To remove rigidity from the stiffened limos, Use
transverse passes, touching w1th the hand, or with anythi•~g;
breathing upon the part; darting the fingers at the part without
touching it. The contact of a child's hand, the breath of a
child, would relax the part where the muscular force of a strong
man could not, if gloves and other substances impeded other
influence than the nu:chanical.
§ 215. In one case, if a stranger willed ever so much to rel.lx
tne patient's clencheu hand, or bent arm, by breathing on it,
the hand did not relax : she having no idea what he was at-
tempting, and his breath being intensely disagreer1ble to her-
whereas the mesmeriser's breath relaxed it instantly. Yet this
patient could be attracted by the stranger's tractive passes just
as well as by those of her magnetiser.-Elliotsor.
§ 216. To excite a dormant organ, a puff of air is suificient;
dehypnotise. a rigi~ muscle, a smart blo~, or pressure, (m.ade
either with wsulatmg rods, glass, or sealmg-wax, or the pomts
of the fino·ers ;) a sudden noise as clapping the hands, a sma~t
slap, pres~ure and friction over the eyelids, and a current of a1r
70 HISTORY OF .MESMERISM.
wafted against the face, are the diffi rent means of arousing the
patient from the hypnotic state.-Braid.
§ 217. Patients will awake if left to themselves. A smart
pinch will very generally rouse them.-Catlow.
EFFECTS STATED TO HAVE BEEN PRODUCED BY MESMERIC
OPERATIONS.
§ 218. Miscellaneous E..ffects.-The firs.t effect is a look of
stupor in the eye, and a lack of power to wmk; the eye closes.
Long after this, the hearing retains all its acuteness; after the
patient is deaf to every sound save that of the mesmeriser's voice,
he is still alive to feeling. The usual sign of the patient having
passed into the mesmeric state is, that the head of the patient
will follow every motion of the mesmeriser's hand.
§ 219. Mdlle. M-- is asked whether she is asleep. She
replies, softly but distinctly, "Oui, je dors." On one of the
party expressing a doubt of the fact, she exclaims, "Yes, cer-
tainly, I am asleep." A Belgian gentleman in the mesmeric
state, mentions when he is asleep, and when he wishes to be
awoke.
§ 220. A gentleman, at Cambridge, whilst in the mesmeric
state, is touched by a by-stander. "The patient's whole body
quivered, his features were convulsed, his countenance became
deadly pale, aml he seemed to gasp for breath, like a person
who has been suddenly immersed in cold water." In another
case, a violent fit of shivering is caused by a stranger touching
the patient without having been previously placed en rapport.
(Cross-Magnetism.)
§ 221. One patient cannot sleep the night after bein~ mes-
merised, but feels none of the usual ill effects from a wakeful
night.
§ 222. Mesmeric patients act upon real impressions, and in
perfect conformity with external circumstances. They retain
all their sense of locality, all their cognition of time, and their
knowledge of the persons who may be arcund them.-Town-
shend.
§ 223. It is just as common to produce vigilance in some
patients as somnolence in others, by me~merism; and it oftPn
happens that susceptibility to external and even remote in-
fluences is as refined in one state as in the other.-Spencer
Hall.
§ 22-!. In some instances, the contact of any other person than
the mesmeriser; nay, the proximity of any person, produces the
greatest distress, and sometimes the most violent disturbance.
Some patients feel cold if others approach, (Cross-Magnetism;)
and some have fits if their mesmeriser leaves them.
§ 225. Just before sleep comes on, one patient feels " as if
Hrs·roRY OF MESMERISM. 71
&orne one gave her a blow on the tt1p of the head, and from that
moment she loses her consciousness."
§ 2ZG. In a youth, " I pointed," says Dr. Elliotson, "to one
eye only-the right. · Both equally nearly closed. When I
spoke, he answered faintly that he was neither a.<:leep nor
~wak.e; ~hat be could not hear or see with his right side-that
1s, h1s nght half was asleep. If I raised the right arm, it
~roppe.d, for that side W 'lS asleep, and he never was cataleptic;
If [ ra1scd the left, it remained, for he had power in his left
half, anrl he voluntarily sustained it. This was the first time
I witnessed mesmerism of one side of the brain only.
He s itl that I could not draw him in this state! Nor could 1."
-E/liotson.
§ '227. A lady stated, that from the moment her thumb
touched the thumb of the-mzsmeriser, a leaden weight settled
on her eye-lids, making resistance to sleep impossible.
§ 2'28. A patient of Mr. Majendie's, "without the slightest
suggestion or prompting, said, that she saw the sparks of fire
pass from the points of the magnetiser's fingers into the water
wl1ich he magnetised for ber." .
§ :2 2:.l. ln the mesmeric state, the sleeper is fast asleep, and
lmows notlling of the effects produced by his mesm~>riser.­
Sandby.
§ 230. All somnambulists are not conseious of their state;
and several, especially at the first experiments, m·e very far
from thirdring that they are asleep.
§ 231. Madame H--, whilst being magnetised, converses
and jokes with her magnetiser, without the least emotion, up
to the moment when sleep comes abruptly to close her eyelids,
"and from the first second, this sleep is a perfect somnam-
bulism"
§ 23'2. In magnetising Paul Villagrand, "the entire body was
agitated with partial or general shocks, resembling those occa-
sioned by the action of electricity."
§ 233. Somnambulism consists of incomplete isolation, when
the patient can recognise others besides his magnetizer: com-
plete isobtion, when the patient is bereft of all his senses; per-
fectly insensible to everything but what is done by his magne-
tiser; deaf, Jumb, blind, and without feeling to all others:
and lucid somnambulism, during which we have evidence 0f-
1, vision without the aid of the eyes; 2, intuition; 3, internal
prevision, (foreseeing changes-connected with the patient's own
body;) ..J, external prevision, (foreseeing things in gE-neral ;) 5,
penetr3tion of thought; G, transposition of the senses. This
last is, however, considered by Teste a very rare phenomenon.
He confesses that he never witnessed an instance of it, but cites
the following from Despine :-Sophia Laroche "hears, sees,
HISTORY Ol!' MESMERISM,
reads, feels, tastes, and touches, by means of the feet and
hands."- Teste.
§ 234. Mr. Spurrell, on putting E. W. into the mesmeric
sleep, observed that the patient's face looked glossy, as if
smeared over with some " luminous oil;" the fcatu1·es seemed
enlarged, and " what is very remarkable, the eyelids of the
patient had become so perfectly transparent, that I could see
the. eyeballs," says Mr. S. "through them more clearly than in
the natw·al state with the eyes wide open, although they were
now shut." .fill his patients are fortunate enough to see a
"blue fire" emanate from the operator to them, and from them,
in return, to the operator. At first this "blue fire" is pro-
pelled towards the patient, principally through the eyes of the
operator; "when reaching the latter, a correspondent flow of
the same fluid emanates from him, an.d thwugh the same organ,
the eye, which thus called into action trickles down his cheeks,
·and by the passes of the operator is made to overspread his
whole person, V\1 hence clairvoyance ensues."
§ 235. The effects of hypnotising are all consecutive, and con-
sist of, first, increased sensibility of all the senses, sight ex-
cepted, mobility and docility, (the primary phenom~::na ;) and
afterwards of insensibility, torpor, and cataleptiform rigidity,
(secondary phenomena.) By a puff of air directed against its
organ, one sense singly may be roused whilst the others remain
dormant.
§ 236. During the torpid state, a puff of air or gentle pressure
against one eye will restore sight to that eye, and sense and
mobility to one-half of the body-the same side as the eye
operated on-but will leave the other eye insensible, and the
other half of the body rigid and torpid as before. Neither
hearing nor smell, however, are restored in this case to either
side. By very gentle pressure over bf)th eyeballs, the patient
shall be instantly aroused to the waking condition, as regards
all the senses, and mobility of the head and neck. . . •
Thus, by one mode of acting through the eye, we reduce the
patient to a state of hemiplegia, by the other, to that of para-
plegia, as regards both &ense and motion. (§190, §226.)
§ 237. During the state of cataleptiform rigidity, the circula-
tion becomes greatly accelerated ; in many cases it has more
than double the natural velocity, and may be brought down to
the natural standard, in most cases in less than a minute, by
reducing the cataleptiform condition. It is also found that it
may be kept at any intermediate condition between these two
extremes, according to the manipulations used; and that the
blood is circulated with less force (the pulse being always con-
tracted) in the rigid limbs, and sent in correspondingly greater
quantity and force into those parts which are not directly sub-
jected to the pressure of rigid muscles.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 73
§ 238. By acting on both eyes in the manner required to in-
duce the stale of paraplegia, (§ 236,) the force and frequency
of the heart's action may be as speedily and perceptibly dimi-
nished, as the action of a steam-engine by turning off the steam.
By again fixing the eyes, its former force and velocity will be
almost as speedily restored, as can be satisfactorily proved to
any one who keeps his ear applied to the chest during these
experiments. The amount of change in the pulse, by acting
on the two eyes, and thus liberating the organs of special sense,
and the head and neck, is about 60 per cent. of the actual rise
of the pulse when at the maximum above the ordinary velocity
of the circulation.-Brairl.
EFFECTS ON THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM.
§ 239. Traction and imitation ofgestures.-M. de Lausanne
was the discoverer of the mesmeric attraction, (?vide§ 63, c.)
When he was in another room, or even outside the house, his
sleepwaker turned her head in the exact direction of her me~­
menser. "Theodore was standing with his back to the mes-
meriser, while some one engaged his attention in front; and
the mesmeriser going to a good distance, so as to render any
cognizance of his gestures by feeling impossible, gently beck-
oned the patient towards him, who turning quickly round,
ha tened to the mesmeriser."
§ 2'10. On the mesmeriser presenting his foot towards A.
M--, when standing up, she invariably commenced a series
of regular revolutions, from right to left, stopping always when
she had half completed the circle, with a bend and a dip, like
that of a magnetic needle(!) H the mesmeriser, standing op-
posite to his patient, began to turn round ; she did the same,
but in the contrary direction. Other sleepwakers did the same,
but the foot, instead of attracting, seemed to repel them. Thus
by alternately attracting with the hand, and repelling by the
foot, the patient could be "kept oscillating to and fro like the
pendulum of a clock."
§ 2.J1. The mesmeriser and the patient are placed back to
back. The former makes sundry grimaces and contortions of
vis:~ge, which are exactly and simultaneously imitated by the
latter.-Townshend.
§ 242. In Mr. Lang's first case, traction was practised suc-
cessfully by any of the company. In another, the whole body
was extremely sensible to the approach of the hand; without
bein<Y touched, the patient could be made to rise from her seat,
and by the approximation of a hand to her foot, the latter could
be attr.1cted and made to foliow, as was the case with her hands
on former occasions. When two or more hands were presented
at the same time on different sides to a hand of the patient's,
74 HISTORY OF ~1ESl\1ERISM.
the latter fluttered about between them, as if uncertain where
to fix, being apparently equally attracted by all. As this was
continued, the motions of the patient's hand became quicker,
anu the sense appeareJ to acquire additional acuteness. There
was sometimes exhibited a sort ofrepulsion from one of the
hands, although not always the same one.
§ 243. On another occasion, as the operator continued to
move his hand nearer, and again draw it away, which he did
fr·equently and r·apidly, never, however, allowing his hand to
come actually in contact with hers, the patient's fingers and
hand became more agitated, the hand rose from her knee, and
followed the operator's hand, v.,·hich was withdrawn and raised,
as if irresistibly attracted.
§ 2-14. In another patient, when blindfolded, a steadfast gaze
either by the mesmerism· or any of the bystanders, sufficed to
attract the hand.-Lang.
§ 245. A Mr. Co~ter narrates the following cases of attrac-
tion towards the north. "Every day, just after I close her
eyes, her arms begin to swing round like the swifts of a mill,
and she cannot stop them ; but the moment I breathe or blow
upon them, they drop as if they were dead. But the most ex-
traordinary of all that I have read or heard of, is this :-A few
days ago, she put her feet into a new pair of pattens, and she
had no sooner done so, than back she ran to the wall, and could
not stop herself, which caused her to be very much frightened.
We then wished to try the experiment of metal upon her, and
caused her to stand on a piece of iron, with all her weight on
one foot, the toes pointing southward, and almost instantane-
ously Tound she went to the north, and there remained. This
has been done repeatedly by her, in the presence of many per-
sons, some of whom have held her tight, but to no purpose;
round she went to the north. Also, Mr. Holding's son, a boy
between ten and twelve years of age, who also in the second
stage, or half-sleep, evinces the same phenomena; by standing
on any metal he is carried round the same way-to the north."
- Phreno-.l'riagnet.
§ 246. One patient seemed to follow the sidewise movement
of the operator's hand; and when it was held above her head,
she made an effort to stand up. These effects took place only
when her eyes were open, and not if the mesmeriser acted be-
hind her back.
§ 247. A boy, during the mesmeric sleep, imitates the move-
ments of his mesmeriser. While malnng the longitudinal
passes, Dr. Elliotson said aloud that he would make the trans-
verse ones, but continued the longitudinal. "HoweYer, his
hand moved transversely." It frequently happens that other
parts besides those from which the mesmeriser makes tractive
passes will move. Sometimes both hands, both legs, or all
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 75
four, if traction is made to one only. Old movements con-
tinually recur, when, if the patient ho.d a desire to impose,
they would not, because no steps are taken to prevent him from
seeing what you are about. So strong is the disp·osition when
once given, that the movement will continue after the mesmer-
iser ceases to give an impulse.
§ 2,18. After demonstrating traction, an iron waiter was
plac~u before the patient's eyes, and his legs rose again, though
nothmg was done. "A hat was held before his face, and I,"
says Dr. Elliotson, "stood at his feet, and said aloud that J
would draw up his legs. But I did nothing, and yet his legs
soon began to move, and at last rose to a level with his body.
I then said nothing, but endeavoured to draw up his left arm
by passes, but no effect ensued, and his sleep was afterwards
f~und to huve become very deep. A board was placed before
his face, and I opened my mouth on the other side of it. Un-
fortunately, a visitor,fancying he saw the boy's mouth opening,
said ' Oh, yes ; he is opening his mouth !' Mr. Wood de-
clared he saw nothing; but the mouth now opened immedi-
ately. The same occurred when I put out my tongue, though
nothing was said."
§ 249. Several patients, when in the mesmeric state, always
look before t~y imitate the gestures of their mesmeriser. In
imitating grirnn;ces, attitudes, and movements made behind a
patient, he generally copies them very slowly, often erring at
first, before giving the correct imitation.
§ 200. In one patient, if any part was pressed against with
the point of the finger or anything else, it immediately pushed
against the object; a-finger on his nose caused his head to rise
and move forwards; if put on the back of his head, his head
pushed backwards ; if on his arm, his arm rose.
§ 251. Having thrown ayoung lady into ,., a profound snoring
sleep," writes Dr. Elliotson, "I attempted to draw up her
arms and head by tractive movements, but failed. But I dis-
covered that if I said aloud they would move, they did. On
being asked why she raised her arms, she replied she did not
know, but could not prevent their rising, and that she heard
me say they would rise up. If I desired her to raise her arms
or move her head, no effect followed; but if I said the thing
would take place, it did." On another occasion, Dr. Elliotson
tried to draw up her hands and arms by tractive movements.
"I did not succeed for some time; and when the effect came,
it was at first slight, the hand rising a short distance only and
dropping again. I then made no tractive movement, but
merely said that 'her right arm would go up,' and it almost
immediately began to move, and ascended slowly. Whatever
movement I said would occur of any part, it did. occur. I
then said aloud that she would sit up in bed, and smg a song.
76 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
She at once slowly rose in bed, and began to sing, snoring and
nodding, as if overpowered with sleep ; sometimes so asleep
that she was silent; and then reviving and resuming the song.
I said she would whistle, and she forthwith attempted. I then
said she would sing a song, which I learnt she did not know.
She took no notice, and presently fell into a very deep sleep."
On another occasion, "while I now said her arm would ascend,
I begged Mr. Wood to say it would not ; and it did not for a
few minutes, but at length it did, though slowly, and threat-
ening every now and then to descend-my influence being op-
posed, but proving ultimately victorious. As soon as Mr.
Wood said with me that it would ascend, it ascended immedi-
ately and freely. In another experiment, I said the arm would
ascend, and by tractive movements endeavoured at the same
time to draw it down. The arm presently began to ascend,
but did not rise much for some time, and, when it was ele-
vated, the hand and fingers turned down in the direction of
my h:md." She had now become susceptible of influence be-
fore being actually mesmerised. After drawing up her arms
by tractive passes, Dr. Elliotson said, "her right arm would
go over to her left side, and at the same time endeavoured to
draw it by tractive passes to the right; it went over to the
left." She refused to eat bread-and-butter when she was in
the mesmeric state, but on Dr. Elliotson saying, "Now she
will eat it," she did so against her will, grumbling all the time.
§ 252. Of another patient Dr. Elliotson remarks, " any
stranger could draw her by tractive passes, and more power-
fully than myself, if his efforts were on the right side, and
mine on the left, even if he stood at some distance from her,
and I close to her. Every phenomenon, stiffening, contrac-
tion, &c., was more ready and more powerful upon her right
side than upon her left; even the excitement of her cerebral
organs is more ready in the right half of the brain."
§ 253. A youth during the mesmeric state is attracted by
his magnetiser, but ceases to be so, and relaxes his grasp of
the hand, the moment any third person touches the mesmeriser.
§ 254. In one mesmeric patient, his two hands repel each
other.
§ '255. A female becomes rigid, and, her feet remaining
fixed, imitates the gestures of her magnetiser, whatever kind
of muscular efforts and contortions are required. The ap-
proach of others repels her, though by making tractive passes
any one could draw her limbs in the required direction, she
frowning the while.
§ 256. With one female patient, a tractive movement with
one finger would signifv the wish of the experimenter often
just as well as one with the whole hand or both hands. The
result would equally ensue whether he wore gloves or not-
' HISTORY OF :MESMERISM, 77
nay, if tractive movements were made with a pencil case, a
paper-cutter, &c., she. obeyed, provided care was taken to make
it evident that this was moved by the experimenter. If the
pencil-case was moved with a careful concealment of all mo-
tion of the hand, or an empty loose glove was employed for
traction, with the same care, no effect followed.-Elliotson.
§ 257. The hypnotised patient has a tendency to approach
to, or recede from, impressions, according as they are agree-
able or disagreeable, either in quality or intensity.-Braid.
§ 258. The patient is drawn by the hand of the operator, by
the heat of a red-hot poker-if not too hot, for if so it repels-
and by a lighted candle. The boy (James) is brushed to sleep
in a minute, and (having intentionally been made to abstain
from food before the experiment) he is allowed to taste a
morsel of bread ; he then follows the bread wherever the
operator takes it, and when he has obtained it, applies it to
his ear!
§ 259. Mr. Catlow causes three patients when asleep to
take hold of each other's hand. Mr. Catlow takes hold of the
last, and then yawns several times : they all yawn sympatheti-
cally.-Catluw.
§ 260. Jviuscu,lar power and performance of muscular ac-
tions.-The phenomenon of the clockwork lowering of the
eyelids, and remarkable manner of their closi11g, are not imi-
table, for they are out of the reach of human muscular power,
as long as it remains under its usual conditions.
§ 261. There is an apparent lack of power in the eyelids to
perform the usual office of nictitation. The upper lid falls
very gradually, and sometimes remains not quite in contact
with the l.ower. In this case, unless the person is in the habit
of sleeping with the eyes open, he rarely falls into sleepwaking.
When sleepwaking is perfect, there are the following differ-
ences between the state of the eyes here and in common sleep ;
1, the line of junction of the lius is higher; 2, there is a com-
pressed look about the lids, a~ if they were rather held down
by force than quietly and naturally closed ; 3, the eyeball is in
frequent and violent motion. No force short of that which
would seriously injure the sleepwaker can wrench asunder the
eyelids. By a command of the mesmeriser, however, the eyes
can be opened, and the direction of their axes is usually up-
wards and inwards.
§ 262. The voice of the patient is usually pitched to that of
the magnetiser.
§ 263. One patient, during the mesmeric state, was ttnable
to speak, though he heard every question put to him, and was
desirous of answering, as he told his mesmeriser afterwards.
§ 264. E. A--, when in the mesmeric state, could throw,
78 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.·
in wrestling, a person he could not master when awake.-
Townshend.
§ 265. On the fingers of the operator being withdrawn from
his cerebral organs, William invariably fell backwards, ap-
parently as if all his energies were prostrated, and would have
fallen down but for the arm of his mesmeriser.-Phreno-
Magnet.
§ 266. One patient's mesmeric state was that " of extreme
diminution of muscular power."
§ 2G7. In another, "after a strong or continued muscu_lar
exertion-as the ascent of an arm, &c. &c.-sudden relaxatwn
would always occur, and the sleep become so profuund that
they dropped powerless, and no impression could, for a time,
be made upon them."
§ 2G8. Dr. Wilson (of Middlesex Hospital) had a mesmeric
patient, who seems to have been a melancholy hypochondriac.
He always remained wide awake, not being even sleepy under
his mesmerisation. At first he trembled and twitched, then
his limbs became rigid, and attracted towards the operator.
The force of extension he felt to increase and decrease, as the
operator's hands approached or receded from him. Assisted
by tractive passes, he could raise heavier weights than when
in his natural state-viz:., seventy pounds with his arm, twenty-
eight pounds with his leg. If Dr. Wilson went into the next
room, so that merely the points of his fingers could be seen,
the effects still ensued. His susceptibility so increased, that
at last Dr. W. affected him at a distance of 112 feet. A by-
stander stepping between the two appeared to deter the power
of magnetism for a few seconds ; but after his standing there
for a few seconds, it appeared to return with its full strength.
The man would sometimes endeavour to think of anything else
rather than the operation when Dr. \V. began; but the effects
carne on just as certainly. "This man obeyed and approached
according to the information of his external senses only; for
he always looked intently and involuntarily at Dr. W. the
whole time; and when Dr. W. once bandaged his eyes, he
would slowly move in any direction in which be was told that
Dr. Wilson was moving him, though Dr. W. was perfectly
still."
§ 2G9. " Patients can tell if great muscular action has been
excited in them ; and thoae who have no muscular power in
the sleep, but can talk, can tell, on awaking, whether you have
made them talk much by the amount of refreshment they feel
on awaking, which is proportionate to what you have made
them do. If experiments in exciting strong muscular efforts
are made, they are still stronger and stronger the more of these
experiments are made upon them. So far from feeling fatigue,
many females susceptible of mesmerism, if weak, out of spirits,
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. ?9
and eating and sleeping badly, are invigorated by once mesmer-
ising them, and a few times will set them up far better than
mecti~ine and country ~ir.. F.or common fatigue and ex-
haustiOn, a good mesmensatwn Is excellent."-Elliotson.
§ 270. Two mesmeric somnambulists beina- brouo·ht into the
same room, "hastily embraced each other with apparent rap-
ture, fold ed their arms round each other, and clung together
with a rigid and tenacious grasp that would have caused pain
to any one in a natural state. A bystander endeavoured to lift
the hanu of one of them from the shoulder of the other, and
with all his force could hardly move it. It was with the
greatest di(ficulty the two could be separated." Two other
mesmerised patients, also, "when brought into contact, clung
to each other with the greatest avidity."-Lang.
§ 271. Muscular rigidity.-" When two persons are in
frequent mesmeric rel.:ltionship, the phenomenon is carried
forward into the natural state. This I founcl to be the case
after I had often mesmerised Anna M--, and E. A--, I
could at any time fix: the hand or arm of either of these persons
in any position I pleased, and in all the rigidness of catalepsy.
Once I persuaded E. A-- to permit me to try whether, in
his waking state I could prevent him from opening his eyes.
The experiment was perfectly successful. By pressing down
the upper eyelid with a finger of one hand, and placing a
finger of the other upon the lower lid, I could so influence the
levator muscle as (after withdrawing my hands) to keep either
eye closed while the other was wide open. The patient could
not, in general, shut the right eye without also shutting the
left."-Townshend.
§ 272. A highly hysterical patient, when mesmerised, would
become perfectly rigid if a foreign body touched her, or if a
person unly walked across the floor.
§ 273. A mesmeric lady, describing in a letter her feelings
durincr somnambulism, states that the sensation attending the
catale"'psy "though strange, is by no mea~s pair:ful."
§ 27-
L Of his deaf and dumb mesmenc patient, Mr. Jones
asserts, " Every muscle of his face and body can be excited
while in his normal state, by the mere touch of the finger. If
I apply my finger to the back of his wrist, his hand becomes
clenched and cannot be opened until I apply my finger to the
front of the wrist. A third party has no power in opening the
hand, but if while a third party is touching the front part of
the patient's wrist, the. operator the? t_ouch ~ny part of the
patient's body, the patient's hand Will Immedtately fly open.
By applying the finger to the jaw-bone, below the ears, the
mouth flies open, and cannot be dosed until the operator
touches the chin. Every attitude of each limb and body can
80 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
be effected by the mere touch of the finger, whilst the patient
is in a vigilant state."-Phreno-Magnet.
§ 275. In Mr. Lang's first case-
Upward passes along the arm without contact, produced
catalepsy;
Downward·passes without contact, remove~ i.t i.
Downward passes with contact, produced ng1d1ty ;
Upward passes with contact, removed th1s; . . .
Downward pasaes without contact, reproduced the ng1d1ty.
~ 276. On another occasion-
Downward passes with contact, produced rigidity;
Upward passes with contact, increased this; .
Passes with contact made down the back, produced m-
tense rigidity of the whole body; continued, they
brought on relaxation ; then rigidity, and then relaxa-
tion again.
§ 277. In the second case, the same passes which produced
rigidity, if continued too long, brought the arm or leg back to
pliancy.
§ 278. In the sixth case, it is found, after the second experi-
ment, " that the limbs can be made rigid whilst he is in his
ordinary state; and not only can they be made rigid by others,
but he can himself by a few passes of the one hand make his
oth('r arm perfectly rigid. His arm was pricked and pinched
severely whilst in this state, without his knowledge, and con-
sequently without pain."-Lang.
§ 270. Stiffness and rigidity of the muscles ofboth extremities
and trunk were invariably removed by downward passes with
contact in Mr. Syme's case.
§ 280. Spasmodic lock-jaw is very common, and is to be re-
medied by breathing or making passes over the part.
§ 281. One of the Okeys was so susceptible "that an intense
look behind her at the distance of many yards would arrest,
stupify, and fix her rigid, perhaps as she was running up
stairs. For a short time, I could make the elder sister's hand
close rigiJly, by merely looking at it intently. A sudden noise,
also, such as clapping the hands, would stupify her and render
cera rigid mass."-Elliotson.
§ 282. The mere mention of the word catalepsy before Miss
Clara D., when in the mesmeric state, was quite sufiicient to
give her all the symptoms of it. Her limbs then yielded to all
the impressions given to them, and continued up to the end of
the fit in the most distressing and fatiguing positions which
they could be made to assume.-Teste.
§ 283. Aften ten or fifteen seconds have elapsed subsequently
to th~ clo~ure of the eyelids, by g~ntly elevating the arms and
le~s, 1t Wl~l be fo~nd t~at .the p~t1ent has a disposition to re-
tam them m the s1tuatwn m wluch they have been placed, if
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 81
h~ is intensely affected. If this is not the case, in a soft tone
of voice desire him to retain lhe limbs in the extended position,
and thus the pulse will speedily become greatly accelerated,
~nd the limbs, in process of time, will become quite rigid and
Involuntarily fixed, the breathing being oppressed and quick-
ened. At this stage, the transition from torpor of all the
senses and cataleptiform rigidity, to the most exalted sensi-
bility and flaccidity of muscle, may be effected almost with the
celerity of thought, even by so slight a cause as a breath of air
directed against the part. If left at rest it will speedily merge
back again.-Braid.
§ 284. Mr. Catlow's patients became rigid, and their limbs
retained any position given. Green, who was not considered
to be in the mesmeric state, but only had his eyes closed, on
his arms being raised, retained them so for three-quarters of an
hour. At the end of that time his pulse was 120. In another
patient the lower extremities remained extended for forty
minutes.-Catlow.
EFFECTS ON THE COMMON SENSIBILITY.
~ 28~. Insensib-ility; increased sensibility, and community
offeeling.-Theodore, when his mesmeriser is warming him-
self at the fire, rubs his hands and spreads them out, as if over
the flame, precisely as the mesmeriser does; on being asked
what he is doing," Je m'echauffe," he replies. A.M. coughs
when his mesmeriser coughs. Several patients, when cold,
asked the mesmeriser to warm himself, which at once warmed
them.
§ 286. The hair of the operator was pulled. Theodore im-
mediately winced, as if he had felt the injury," and," says Mr.
Townshend, "put up his hand to that part of the back of my
head where my hair had been pulled, throwing his arm round
my neck, as if to defend me from any other attacks that might
be made upon me."
§ 287. Another patient discriminates correctly between the
sensations of roughness and smoothness felt by the mesmeriser
on touching alternately the carved and uncarved portions of a
chessman.
§ 28 . On one occa~ion, w~en Mr: Townshend h~d a bl~ster
on his side, a mesmensed patient sa1d that somethmg pamed
l1er side, " as if the skin were torn off."
§ 289. E. A., when sleepwaking, asserted that he was cor-
poreally insensible ; " and anxious as it seemed to try experi-
ments upon himself, he would bite his own hand till he drew
blood, without, as he affirmed, exciting sensation."-Town-
shend.
{) 290. One patient declares that warm water (1150 F.) feels
F
82 HISTORY OF MESMERISllt.
" very col~-freezing ;'',;vater at the temperature of the atmos-
phere " mce anu warm. .
§ 291. When th.e oper~to: is lugg.ed, pinched, ~r pnckell,
the patient complams: of thts many mst:mces are gtven.
§ 292. In the sevent.h case, pinching an.d p1:icking were tr!ccl
without causing the slightest symptom of pam, "no scnsatton
or consciousness being perceptible, with the exception of a
quiet .~mile upon the patient's lips."-Lang.
§ 293. During tne mesmeric st:J.te the sensibility is some-
times absent, sometimes unimpaired, even at the same sittin~.
§ 294. It often happens that a mesmeric patient who w11l
bear hard pinching, is sensible to tickling, or gentle pressure,
or difference of temperature.
§ 295. One patient has no sense of mechanic:ll injury below
the elbows and knees; although, when in the first degree of
sleepwaking she has perfect sensibility throughout; another
has sensibility only in the face and head. A third feels no
lower than the neck. A fourth fpels mechanical injury in no
part of the surface. Yet all these feel temperature-heat or
cold-far more acutely than when awake; and some of them
complain of the slightest pressure, though none of pinching,
pricking, &c. The seat of insensibility in some will vary at
different times, insensibility extending more or less at different
mesmerisations, and parts being insensible at one time which
are sensible at another. In a young woman during the mes-
meric state, there was no feeling to pricking, cutting, or pinch-
ing below the ridge of the lower jaw, and a line continued
from this around the back of the neck, some little way down
the trunk, and all the way down the upper extremities, except
the points of the fingers and thumbs; but above this limit, and
all over the head, the sensibility was not at all diminished-
she felt the slightest touch. The gums had no feeling; the
inside of the cheeks and lips had. She had an exquisite sense
of temperature.
§ 296. The proximity of the mesmeriser often causes a feel-
ing of warmth ; that ofothers, the sensation of coldness: greater
in proportion to the number of persons.-Elliotson.
§ 297. Mr. Thompson's patient felt a warm heat come out
of his mesmeriser's fingers, which took away the pain.
§ 208. In the case of Anne Vials, " the fact of a fly walkina
over the p_upil of the eye, when wide open, has happened tw~
or three ttmes. The fly even once stopped and cleaned its
wings on the eyeball. I once saw the end of a pocket hand-
kerchief placed gently on the pupil, and the lid neither winked
nor moved at the touch. She was perfectly unconscious of the
act."-Sandby.
9299. .IJ.lmo.st altvct:Y~ ma~netism gives rise to opposite sen-
satiOns, accordmg as 1t 1s d1rected to the head or feet. Most
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 83
frequently the sensation of heat is felt at the head, and that of
cold at the feet; but the contrary may also happen. Some
persons experience indifferently either cold or heat-that is,
the same sensation, whatever part of the body may be mag-
netised.
§ :300. "The intensity of the sensation, whatever be its na-
ture, is invariably proportioned to the efi'ort of the magnetiser's
volition, and also to the intensity of the sensation which the
lAter experiences in his fingers. This fact goes very far in
JH·oving the existence of the fluid." The magnetiser, inde-
pendently of the electrical formication which he feels in his
hands, feels also, very frequently, in these organs, a sensation
or heat or cold, but always the inverse of that which the
patient feels.
§ 301. "Some somnambulists are endowed with the melan-
choly pri\rilege of feeling momentarily the pains experienced
hy the patients with whom they are \nought in contact, and
even of presenting the symptoms of the affections under which
these patients happen to labour."-Teste.
§ 302. In the fi.r;;t stage of hypnotism, the tactual sensibility
is so great, that the slightest touch is felt, and will call into
action corresponding muscles. The sense of heal, cold, and
resistance, is also exalted to that degree, as to enable the pa-
tient to feel anything without actual contact, in some cases at
a considerable distance, (eighteen or t\Yenty inches,) if the
temperature is very different from that of the body; and some
will feel. a breath of air from the lips, or the blast of a pair of
bellows, at the distance of fifty, or even ninety feet, and bend
from it, and by making a back current, as by waving the hand,
or a fan, will move in the opposite direction. In the second
stage, there is perfect insensibility. The patient will not feel
what is either hot or cold, aithough not only approximating to,
but brought into actual contact with the skin. He may now be
pricked, or pinched, or maimed, without evincing the slightest
symptom of pain or sensibility, and the limbs will remain
rigidly fixed.-Braid.
§ 303. In several of Mr. Catlow's cases, insensibility to
pricking w as often manifested.
§ 304. Mr. Lynill, a non-professional gentleman at Man-
chester, relates, that by mesmerising a woman in labour, he
rendered her insensible to the p:tins for an hour and a half.-
Zoi.st.
§ 305. Surgical operations rende1·ed painless by means oj
mesmaism.-Amongst the many instances recorded, w.e find
venesection, extraction of teeth, insertion of setons and 1ssues,
removal of tumours, and amputation of limbs. Of the l~t and
most important operation, three cases are well authenticated.
James vVombwell, who had his leg removed at W ellcw Hos-
84- HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
pital, himself states, "I never felt any pain at all; but T once
felt as if I heard a kind of crunching " Of Luther Carey,
whose leg was amputated in America, it is noted, "During the
operation, the patient complained of a sensation in the bottom
of his foot, as though some one was pricking it; and at one
time, for a brief period, appeared to be rousing from the mag-
netic state, and half conscious, by suspicion at least, that the
operation had commenced, and at this time there was quite a
struggle, and mttch muscular action, but he was soon thrown
more fully into the magnetic state, and was then quite uncon-
scious of what was going on, entering into conversation re-
specting the operation, and proposing that it be postponed to
the next week, &.c., and insisting, even after the leg was ampu~
tated, that he would not have it cone until it was fully paralyze<),
at the same time exprei:sing some doubt whether the doctor
would be able to accomplish this." Of Mary Ann Lakin, whose
thigh was amputated at Leicester, the correspondent of the
Leicester J'riercury remarks, " During the operation, an all but
inaudible moaning was heard, and a slight motremerzt of the
body was perceptible; but as far as could be judged, there was
an entire absence of pain. Thrs was evinced by the counte-
nance preserving throughout the greatest placidity, not a single
motion of a muscle indicating sensation. On being demesmer-
ised the patient was not aware of what had taken place till
informed by those in attendance."
EFFECTS ON THE SENSE OF SMELL.
§ 306. The mesmeriser smells at flowers, and then at eau de
Cologne. The patient, his eyes being mesmerically closed,
distinguishes between these, and names them correctly. Ano-
ther patient names correctly when the operator smells at
flowers and snuff.
.§ 307: One patient l~k~s th~ smell of the heliotrope during
hts wak.mg state, ~JUt d1shkes It when he is sleepwaking, be-
cause hts mesmenser does so.
§ 308. Ammonia held under tl'Je nose of a mesmerised patient
produced no effect.-Townshend.
§ .309. Two patients coughed and sneezed when the mes-
mensel: took sn~ff. One of them, when a by-stander inhaled
assafretida, descnbed the smell as being "very bad and disa-
greeable "-Lang
§ 310. When.th.e operator smells camphor, the patient names
?O~rectly what It IS: ~trong ~mmonia has no effect so long as
1t IS held to the patients nostnls; removed to the mesmeriscr's
nose, the patient instantly declares that he smells hartshorn.-
Caldwell.
§ 311. In one of Mr. Catlow's patients, strong ammonia bad
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 85
"a very slight effect," only causing the patient to raise his
head.
§ 312. In the first stage of hypnotism, smell is wonderfully
exalted; one patient has been able to trace a rose through the
air when held forty-six feet from her. In the second stage, a
rose, valerian, or assafcetida, or the strongest liquor ammoni::e,
may be held under the nostrils without being perceived.-Braid.
§ 313. "The sense of smell," says Dr. Fahnestock, (an
American,) " in the pathetised subject, like that of seeing and
hearing, commonly lies dormant or inactive, but is at all times
under the control of the subject's will, antl they can smell or
not, just as they please. If they do not desire to smell, the
strongest substances held under the nose are inh:).leJ with impu-
nity; but if they desire to smell, they can do so with the ut-
most facility and correctness, ancl can distinguish the most
delicate scents at any distance whatever, notwithstanding the
phial, &rc. which may contain them are closely corked and
sealed. It does not matter how well they may be secured, or
where they may be placed, so that the subject is correctly in-
formed of their locality, and the substances to be examined be
such as they could name or distinguish in their waking mo-
ments."-Phreno-Magnet.
EFFECTS ON THE SENSE OF TASTE.
§ 314. Community of this sense between the operator and
patient is illustrated by the latter naming correctly what was
ate or drank by the former, the patients not being blindfolded.
Biscuit, tea, wine, coffee, sandwiches, and brandy, were the
arti.cles employed.
§ 313. That the organs of taste" share the insensibility of the
other senses," says 1\llr. Townshend, "I have had every reason
to beliC've. Anna M-- could never distinguish one substance
that was placed, with precaution, in her month from another.
I have told her that cheese was very good orange, or water,
wine; ann she trusting to my veracity, has implicitly believed
me, her faith in my assertions being uncorrected by the exer-
cise of her usual faculties, and preponderating manifestly over
these. I have tried upon her, when in sleepwaking, the well-
known experiment of placing a piece of zinc and a piece of
silver, the one above, the other below, the tongue, and then
bringing them suddenly in contact; but no metallic taste was
ever perceived by her. The same experiment repeated in her
waking state produced its usual result."
§ 315 ·when thirsty, the patient asks her mesmeriser to drink,
and his doing so quenches her thirst.
§ 317. In three cases the patients coulcl not distinguish be-
tween a piece of apple and a piece of cheese when placed in
86 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
their own mouths ; but the moment the mcsmeriser be(San t_o
eat, they, seeming to eat also, could tell what he had 111 h1s
mouth.-Townshend.
§ 318. The mesmeriser chews some ginger. The patient
spits out scvera~ times, and sa.ys "my mouth burnst and then
"I am eating gmger." On bemg awoke, he had st1ll the taste
of ginger in his mouth, and after drinking some water he asked
very innocently, "Who was it put ginger into my mouth?"-
Phreno-Magnet.
§ 310. Peppermint, cinnamon, a sugar-plum, gentian, a sour-
drop, citric actd, and water, are each separately tasted by the
mesmeriser, and correctly named by the patient: eyes not ban-
daged.- Caldwell.
§ 120 In one instance, ginger, sugar, salt, and pepper, arc
tasted by the operator, and correctly nametl by the mesmerise.
In another case, the operator "asked if we had any substance
of a decided or pungent taste, that we could put into his
mouth?" Ginger was used by him, and named by the patient.
The reporter having silently put into his own mouth a quan-
tity of common salt from a salt-dish on the table, took firm
. hold of the patient's hands, and she was again asked what
she had in her mouth. Her lips moved again as if in the
act of tasting, and she hesitated. " I had,'' continues the re-
porter, "up to this time, kept the salt on my tongue, without
any'"action or suction, so that it was not dissolved, or at all
events had never touched the palate. The operator told me
to swallow the substance which I had in my mouth. This
I accordingly did, and she immediately said, 'It is salt.' Several
of the other visitors tried other substances-sugar, water, gin-
ger again-and she never failed to state, with perfect correct-
ness, what the substance was."
§ 321. With another mesmerised patient, a bystander" took
hold of the patient's hands, and put something into his mouth,
known only to himself; she described it as being hot, and very
disagreeable, her face at the same time assuming the expres-
sion of a person taking disagre<::able medicine; she began to be
sick, and was nearly vomiting. It was the end of a cigar, and
the gentleman said if he had kept it much longer in his mouth
he would have been sick himself"
§ 322. On another occasion the operator put some pounded
alum into his mouth; the patient hesitated, and then said she
tasted something like an orange; a cayenne lozenge was " a
th~ng like a lozenge, ~ot and swe~t ;"an aciduLited drop, "some-
thmg round, a confectwn or sweet1e ;" common Sdlt, "something
w~r:>h an~ watery;" strong tea, "something like aloes; some-
thiDg wluch draws the mouth together;" aloes, "it is bad, aw-
ful bad." "As regards t~e tea," says the reporter," it was strong
tea, and of course a'ltnngent; but the taste she described may
HISTORY OF MESMERISM, 87
partly perhaps have been produced by some combination of the
alum (which she had previously tasted) with the tea."(!!) "As
~he complained _of the taste of the aloes, the operator asked us
1f we had anythrng pleasant to the taste, on which I took her
hand, and put into my own mouth some acid drops, which I
broke and swallowed. She remarked, that 'that was pleasant'
-that 'the taste was better now.'"
§ 323. When the patient herself drank hot tea, she said it
tasted cold : on her mesmeriser drinking the remainder, she
went through all the emotions ofswallowing, and when he had
finished, sail!," It is all done now-that is warm and nice."-
Lang.
§ 324. Mr. Catlow's patient James, states correctly what his
operator is doing, when Mr. Catlow eats and drinks, but when
Mr. Catlow eats cheese, James says that he (James) is eating
apple.
EFFECTS ON THE !;ENSE OF HEARING.
§ 325. Mr. Townshend gives several cases where the patient
was insensible to the voice of every one but the mesmeriser,
until after being placed en rapport. Mademoiselle H-- was
completely insulateu from all sounds to which her magnetiser
did not serve as conductor; but if the speaker touched themes-
meriser he was heard instantly.
§ 32G. Anna M-- could not hear a watch ticking when
held to her own ear, but when applied to her mesmeriser's
she heard it distinctly. When, however, she took the watch
into her own hand, she applied it alternately to her own ear
and to the pit of the stomach, and found that she could hear the
ticking only when the watch was placed in the latter situation,
er else when it was held close to the forehead. When listen-
ing to her magnetiser's voice, singing, "then, and then only,
she appeared to be sensible of the most trifling noises in the
apartment, and was impatient of them to the highest degree,
holding up her forefinger as if to enjoin silence, and uttering
prolonged hushes."-Tvwnshend. ·
§ 327. A lady, describing her own sensations after being mes-
merised, states, "the sound of the voice in persons talking or
singing appears most grating, and the sensation accompanying
it so peculiar, that it cannot be described, whilst discord the
most hideous from the magnetiser, is listened to delightedly as
the music of the spheres."-Phreno-Magnet.
§ 328. In two cases the patients answered all around with-
out their being en 1·apport. In one, the female only answered
when spoken to sotto voce. Loud noises were unheard, but a
whisper caused starting. She heard a command whispered at
one end of a long string, (fifteen yards,) passed through several
closed doors, the other end being applied to her ears. When
88 HISTORY OF ::Y.I:ESMERISM.
applied to the pit of the stomach she heard nothing, but heard
any one who whispered near there distinctly. On one occa-
sion she heard best with her hand; "the lowest whisper, which
made no impression whatever on the ear, unless when breathed
into it, was readily heard when addressed with the mouth close
to the hand."-Lang.
§ 329. If you desire that a somnambulist should not hear
your voice when addressing other persons present, it is only
necessary for you-the magnetiser-to e:rpress the wish to him.
§ 330. One day, when a pious young somnambulist, accus-
tomed to a "mysterious intercourse with the spirits of heaven,"
was" in communication with the angels," she exclaimed all on
a sudden, while tears of emotion really fell on her cheeks-
" Oh! delicious music! divine harmony! The pleasure alone
felt at hearing yon would suffice to make one ambitious of
the happiness of thP. elect all their life." After a time, she
again ejaculated, " There! they are beginning again." Teste
listened and heard" a wretched organ, which, in an adjoining
street, was tearing to pieces, in the most bJ.rharous manner,
one of the songs in the opera of Guido."-Teste.
§ 33 L. Finding one of his patients deaf during the mesmeric
state, Dr. Elliotson pointed his fingers just into the patient's
ears, and after a short time, the youth heard; and to the ques-
tion whether he was asleep, replied, "Yes;" to a second ques-
tion, when he would awake if nothing were done to him, he
answered, "Never."
§ 332. " The inability of some mesmeric patients to hear no
voice but that of their mesmeriser," says Dr. Elliotson, "I am
satisfied is the result of the patient being strongly and involun-
tarily impelled to listen to no other person; for I have seen
them just as deaf to any knocking or other such noise made by
another, while they knew this to be the case, but hearing it
as soon, if they were deceived into a belief that it came from
the mesmeriser. And yet I am convinced that they attempted
no deception, and were conscious of no deception, but were
acting quite involuntarily, and with such rapidity, that they
were ignorant of the whole matter."-Elliotson.
§ 333. In the first stage, "the hearin~ is about twelve times
more acute than in the natural conditwn. Thus, a patient
who could not hear the tick of a watch beyond three feet when
awake, could do so when hypnotised at a distance of thirty-five
feet, and walk to it in a direct line without difficulty or hesita-
tion."-Braid.
§ 334. But a gentleman in Salford produced a greater im-
provement in the power of hearing than this. His patient,
deaf in the ordinary state, when hypnotised, actually heard
the ticking of a watch tha.t did not go !
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 89
EFFECTS ON THE SENSE OF SIGHT.
§ 335. Clrirvoyance, 8rc.-The mesmeriser held up variol}s
objects (not belonging to him) before the eyes (unbandaged) of
the sleepwaker, a young lady, aged eighteen. These she de-
clared she could not see, but whenever the mesmeriser held
before her anything which belonged to himself, she named the
object directly.
§ 336. Notwithstanding her eyes were closely shut, and had
even a sealed look about the lids which was very remarkable,
Mdlle. M-- appeared to be very sensible to the light, and
never approached the lamp without complaining of the glare.
She had great reluctance to exercise clairvoyance. It appeared
to be difficult and fatiguing; and when an object was held be-
fore her, she usually declared it to be too small for her to know
what it was. "Twice, however, she gave singular proofs of
correct vi~ion. Some music-paper was put into lzer hand, and
she waa asked what was written on it. She replied, 'There
is nothing written on it; it is music-paper.' The mesmeriser
gave her his watch, and asked her the hour. After the usual
reluctance and some delay, and moving of her fingers over the
watchglass, in the direction of the hands, she named the hour
and minute with precision.'' She was not blindfolded, but those
present could not detect the slightest opening of the eyelids.
§ 337. Theodore distinguished persons and different colours,
told the hour by a watch, and played at dominoes correctly,
with his eyes closed, but not blindfolded. He declined reading
written words, " of a tolerable size," as being " too small for
him to distinguish."
§ 338. Anna M-- .(not blindfolded) waves the things
about before her forehead, or approximates her forehead to the
object, before she declares what it is that she sees. She de-
clares that she sees most distinctly, when the object is before
her foreheJ.d, at the distance of a few inches. She held a
watch, "so turned as that it formed an acute angle with her
forehead, immediately above the eyebrow. She thus presented
the watch to her forehead, first on the right side, then on the
left, as if to submit it to the scrutiny of a double organ. After
this, she n.::med the exact hour and minute. The hands having
been altered, she found the time with equal correctness. She
could not be brought to distinguish printed or written letters,
during her mesmeric sleepwaking, except on one occasion,
when she read her own name, written in a large hand, and held
at once before her forehead. It seemed that her new visual
faculty was always in its best condition when suontaneously
excited, and that any effort on her part, any over-anxiety to
fnl til om requisitions, marred it altogether." At the instant
of recognising each person, she always gave one or two con-
90 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
vulsive starts, as if her forehead came in contact with some
invisible thing.
§ 339. E. A-.- was twice I?esmerised wit.hout shewin.g
any signs of clanvoyance, but bemg present dunng an expen-
ment upon Anna M--, and hearing from her, during her
sleepwaking, that he would certainly prove a clairvoyant, on
his next trial he evinced the power. His new faculty became
developed gradually. At first, he found considerable difficulty
in reading with his eyes closed, always complained of the
smallness of the type, and could rarely be prevailed upon to
look at more than two or three words at a time. SubsequenUy,
his eyes being firmly shut, (as far as the stric.test observation
could determine,) but not bandaged, he was able to read any
number of words, in the minutest type, with perfect ease, and
to discern small and large objects, near or distant, with exactly
the same facility of vision which is possessed by a waking per-
son. " In proof of this, I may mention, that I and the mem-
bers of my family have seen him, when in the mesmeric state,
thread a small needle, and sew a button on his coat, and again
distinguish minute letters on a seal which a gentleman shewed
him, and which I could not make out myself. Whatever
objects he took up to examine, he immediately carried them
to his forehead. An eye-glass being given to him, he imme-
diately applied it to his foreheau, and declared that everything
appeared blue to him. The glass was, in fact, blue. He dis-
tinguished the colours of eight different coloured lenses, even
when his eyes were bandaged. "A powerful magnifying glass
being placed before his foreheau, was not perceived by him to
enlarge objects, though he read a book, through the glass, with
perfect ease.'' •
§ 340. Though the power of vision was greatest in the fore-
head, yet, at times, and especially when he was excited, and
not in any way called upon to exhibit, (fo1· such requisitions
often seemed to fetter his faculties,) he seemed to see on every
side of him, as if his head were one organ of visual percep-
tion.
§ 341. The operator tested E. A-- by covering the eyes
with his hands in various ways, with a couple of China eye-
glasses stuffed with wadding, with different kinds of bandages,
in such a way as appeared to render it impossible for a ray of
light to reach the front of the eyes, and yet, "having passed
into sleepwaking, he has immediately given proofs of perfect
vision, quite as perfect, indeed, as that enjoyed by persons
whose eyes are open and unbound." Two large thick towels
were thrown over his head, covering him in front down to the
lips. Through these he read, holding the book at an angle
with his forehead, and distinguished cards with perfect accu-
racy. "This power, however, seemed to have its limits. The
HISTORY Oli' MESMERISM, 91
addition of a third towel greatly impeded the patient's vision,
yet even thus he has distinguished cards." When not blind-
folded, he named correctly two cards that were enveloped in
the folds of a napkin.
§ 342. When the China eye-glasses were used without wad-
ding, E. A-- declared that they were so transparent that he
could see the light very plainly through them.
§ 343. " Sometimes,'' says Mr. Townshend, " I have placed
a card, with due precaution, in the midst of a book, which I
kept open only by the interposition of a finger, holding the face
of the card pressed against the leaves of the book, and thus
entirely concealing it. I have then held the book upright
before the patient, who has bent his forehead forwarJ, as usual,
till it was parallel to the cover of the book, and has then told
the card correctly. What is singular, is, that if I withdrew my
finger and quite closed the book, the expe1·iment failed. The
sleepwaker said that the reason of this was, that the vibrations
of the meJium, by which he pretended to perceive objects, were
too much intercepted by the perfectly closed book." The sleep-
waker at one time declared that he saw through the book which
was held between him and the object; and, at another, that he
did not see through, "but received an impression from certain
rays, that did not come to his eye in direct lines, but were bent
round the edges of the book." (! ) He declared that the ball
of the eye had no share in the production of mesmeric vision,
but that the impression was made direct upon the brain.
§ 344. "He did not at all like to have objects held behind
him; saying that perception by the occiput was very fatiguing,
and cost him an effort which did him harm. In telling cards
by means of various parts of his head, he liked to observe cer-
tain conditions, which were executed either by himself or at
his discretion. His favourite mode of proceeding was to lift his
own hand above his head, and to take the card from me, which
he held at a certain distance from the part where I told him to
exercise his perception, observing, that no one ever ·put athing
they (he) wanted to see close to their (his) eyes. When I held
the card my:>elf, and approached it nearer than he liked, he
always e-ave indubitable proofs of being aware of the circum-
stance, begging me to place the object farther off. Sometimes,
when he found a difficulty in ascertaining the card, he would
beg me to breathe on it, and when I had done so, he would tell
it directly. At other times he would hold the card horizontally
above his head; and then, without stirring the centre of the
card from its place, would dip down, first one end and then the
other, like the two extremities of a see-saw. This he c.alled
"Le moyen electrique." He was geneTally successful in tell-
ing cards in this manner, sometimes on the first operation,
sometimes after two cr three repetitions ofit."
92 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
§ 345. At first, he was unable to read in a perfectly dark
closet, but at length he could make out whole sentences of
even small print. He declared that the more complete the
darkness was, the more acute his perceptive power; and, in
order to thicken the obscurity, he would wrap up his head in
a dressing-gown which hung in the closet.
§ 346. The presence of a sceptical person rendered E. A--
<..uite incapable of repeating his clairvoyant efforts. Some-
' times, after having named many objectA correctly, he would
begin to make mistakes, and evidently to guess instead of to
perceive. At other moments, he would push impatiently away
from him the cards, books, &c., that were presented to him,
and exclaim, " maintenant je ne puis plus." Again, when
allowed to remain quiet for awhile, he would recover his clair-
voyance.
§ 347. A Swiss peasant, Johann, who had been almost blind
for three years, was the next clairvoyant. Before being mes-
merised "he could yet see enough to perceive any large ob-
stacle that stood in his way," but could not read a letter of the
largest print. During the mesmeric state he distinguished
between different persons and the colours of different flowers,
and told the letters B, M, and 0, written in large printing
hand, on pieces of card, and helil before his closed lids.
Taken to a mirror on which the light of a lamp fell strongly,
he exclaimed, "Viel licht! viel licht !" (Much light! much
light!)
§ 348. " There seems to be every reason to conclude that
the eye in mesmeric sleepwaking is either so disordered or so
paralyzed in its functions as to cease to convey impressions to
the mind-in any mode, at least, that can be termed ordinary."
-Townshend.
§ 348. A mesmeric clairvoyant at Nottingham observed that
there was no light in the room, and that she could not see.
On a candle being placed in the next room she said, "Now I
can see there's a lighted candle."
§ 350. A clairvoyant of Mrs. Sunter's stated that he could
see the people in the next room ; could see from his stomach,
knees, and finger-ends ; and could see the operator's inside, aud
how the process of digestion was going on. He thus describes
it:-" The stomach presses against the gall, and a liquid comes
out and mixes with the food in the stomach, and part of it is
passing through that channel, (pointing with his fi nger to the
part,) and part is going along that passage to the heart." He
could see best in p erfect darkness.
§ 351. "J. F., on being thrown into the mesmeric trance at
Liverpool, as. we sat side by side, described to us, as accurately
~s any e~e-w1tness could have done, what was then transacting
m a particular room at Sheffield, though he had never been in
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 93
it, not a single leading question being put to him. At Wolver-
hampton he dcscribl'd anything held behind his head as accu-
rately as though he had observed it with his eyes; and late
on Saturday evening read verbatim two letters then coming
to l~im by post, one from London, and the otherfrom Sheffield,
whuh were not delivered to him till the following day at
Walsall. On many occasions, when in the trance, he has
described remarkable events which have occurred some time
after, and also the time of their occurrence as then present to
him. At Leighton Buzzard, whatever thought was silently
entertained by us and by Mr. P. Wagstaff, surgeon, the same
patient whilst in the trance gave utterance to, and whatever we
silently purposed he executed."-Spencer Hall.
§ 332. A mesmeric clairvoyant noticed when one of the
lights behind him was put out.
§ 333. "Dr. Weekes, of Sandwich, has a patient who can
read most distinctly from the back of his head, and t;vo others
who can read from their finger-ends, one of which can com-
mand the power when in a natural state."
§ 33,1. Dr. Fahnestock requested one of his patients to keep
the eyes open whilst she entered into the mesmeric sleep.
" The facts elicited were as follow :-First, that she was en-
abled to see with either the mind or the natlJral eye, as she
felt disposed, but could not use both at one and the same time.
Secondly, when she looked with the eye it had a natural ap-
pearance, but when she looked with the miud the eye became
fixed and vacant. Thirdly, she could see me, or anything
else, through the wall, when she looked with the mind, but
could not when she looked with the eyes. Fourthly, that she
could see much better with the mind than with the eye, and
whilst iu that state preferred using it."-Phreno-.Magnet.
§ 353. Mr. Lang's first patient. There was a good deal of
light; the pupils were contracted. She said that she could
not see because it was too dark. The light was extinguished,
and she then saw well. Again, on a candle being brought near
to her face, "she started and said, 'Oh! what is that? What
a terrible darkness! * * * It is like a big black thing.'
·when the room was quite dark, she declared that she was ' in
the light.'"
§ 35G. The second patient, who had previously been present
at the performance of the first, when the room was completely
darkened, said that she was "walking in light''-that "all
around her was light;" and when the light was flashed across
her face, she said that a great darlmess had come npon her.
§ 357. In describing a distant place-the house of the
questioner-the description she go.ve was very nearly correct.
She described the parlour of another gentleman with "perfect
accuracy" She was asked to go to a certain place. She re-
94 HISTORY OF MESMERISllf.
plied, "I do not know it." The mesmerif1e~ saiu, "It is _in
- - stret>t, go and find it out." She then sa1u she h~d _
dis-
covered the place, and began to describe it. The dcscnpt10n,
however, was that of the bank next door to the place intended
by the m.esmeriser. On being further directed, she afterwards
gave a tolerably correct description of th~ warehou~e originally
referred to. In describing a distant room, she mtstook what
was really ..a mirror for a picture, and considered the reflection
of herself to be the object repre!:ented. On a gentleman
placing his h:md over the patient's head, in a position as if
holding something, she said that she saw in the picture a per-
son pouring something on a woman's head.
§ 35S On another occasion it is stated, in nothing diu she
go wrong, except in describing the proprietor as being in one
room, when he was in another.
§ 339. Being requested to describe a place" at a considerable
distance," she said, "there was so much darkness (light to the
unmesmerised, of course) at the place she was directeu to, that
she saw very indistinctly." As it was quite dark, and eleven
o'clock at night, the mesmeriser was surprised until he recol-
lected the difference of time at the two places. He asked his
patient what o'clock it was at the place referred to. She
answered, six o'clock. On looking at the map, he found" that
the difference of longitude was 750 west, which gives exactly
five hours, so that eleven o'clock in Glasgow was equal to six
o'clock there-just as she had stated." (!) She afterwards
details correctly what a person is doing at a given time at this
distant place, as proved by a letter received some months after-
wards. Her clairvoyance-judging from the accuracy of her
answers-was sometimes greatest at the commencement of the
sitting, sometimes just the reverse, "for her answers were very
unsatisfactory until she had been some hours in the sleep."-
Lang.
§ 360. For six years Dr. Elliotson met with but one case,
and that an unsatisfactory one, of clairvoyance. Mr. Symes
was the mesmeriser. Having made a blunder in telling the
time by a watch, the back of which was held before his closed
eyes, the patient, on being pressed for precise informati.,n, in-
stead of answering, "fell back in his chair fast asleep.'" On
being roused from the deep sleep into the sleepwaking state,
" he proved too exhausted to manifest again the degree of
power of seeing through his eyelids and other opaque sub-
stances, and, indeed, never again exhibited it satisfactorily."
The Okeys, "when they were making a great intellectual
effort, or when a strong influence was exerted upon them to
produce a certain TJhenomenon, would drop in the deepest
sleep." And Dr. E. has since witnessed "this sudden depth
of coma, (!) in which the patient notices nothing, times innu-
HISTORY OF MESMERISM;. 95
merable, when sleepwakers were urged to do something im-
pos ible, or told something disagreeable."
§ 3Gl. Dr. Elliotson has at length, however, found an ex-
ample of clairvoyance "of the highest kind," in a patient who
"is the perfection of integrity and every other moral exr.el-
lence. Hm· word is a fact, and her truth is not less absolute
than her freedom from vanity. She dislikes to exercise her
clairvoyance ; and though, I have no doubt, long possessed of
it, never mentioned it till I tried and urged her to exert it, nor
would she ever exert it but from a desire to oblige me, nor
docs she, if aware of the presence of others. She w'ill ac-
curately describe who are.in a particular room at her father's
house at a particular moment, and the arrangement of the fur-
niture, &c., a distance of above fifty miles; or she will search
for and see a member of her family, and describe the place in
which he or she is, and the others also present. I at length
succeeded in prevailing upon her to see some others, not mem-
bers of her family, or known to them or to herself, and whose
nam<!s even I did not mention, but only a very few particulars
about them. She has described their persons most accurately,
the places in which they were, their occupations at the moment,
and told what others were in the same room with them; and
all this when I knew nothing of the trutk at the time, and had
to verify it afterwards,"(? by writing to the lady's friends.)
"Far more than this she would tell, and tell with perfect ac-
curacy, and predict numerous things relating to others which
have since exactly taken place. But I will not venture to add
more at present. I am anything but superstitious-am indeed
very sceptical of human testimony on all matters of a wonder-
ful nature; but these points I have laboriously and rigidly
looked into, and can speak positively. In exertingthispower,
she knits her brows, and wrinkles her forehead vertically, evi-
dently making a great cerebral ~xertion. f'he part at which
she says she sees, so to speak, cla1rvoyantly, IS the centre of the
forehead, midway between the temples, but a little lower than
half-way between the root of the nose and the top of the fore-
head, exactly at the spot called by some cerebral physiologists,
the organ of eventuality. Gall discovered an organ about this
part, the function of which he termed the sense of things. *
* * A remarkable peculiarity in this case is, that the per-
ception of absent objects scarcely ~ccurs unles.s I hold her han~s
in mine. If I hold but one hand m one of mme, the faculty IS
by no means so strong as if I hold one in each of mine. This
I discovered ao:identally. Sometimes, while distinctly seeing
a person in a distant county,-her father, for instance,-she
suddenly would cry out, ' Oh, papa's gone; I can't see him
now.' On taking hold of her hands again, merely with the
view of encouraging her, she would say, 'There now, I see
96 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
him again.' It was some time before the real fa?ts stru~k .me."
(It was unkind in the patient, whose mesmenc omn1.sc1e~ce
must have made her aware of the fact, not to mentwn 1t.)
"But I was so often in the habit of holding her hands, one in
each of mine, to encourage her to exert the power, ami to in-
crease her general mesmeric state, that at lengtl~ the nn.ishing
of the objects, when 1 let go her hands, and the1r returnmg on
my holding her hands again, struck. me; and I pr~ved tba
thin~ fully, and made further expenments. T.he d1fference
between holding one or both hands I have mentwned. But I
further found that I must hold her right in my right, and her
left in my left. If I hold her right in my left, or her left in
my right, she sees objects double: if I hold her right in my
left, and her left in my right, at the same time, objects are
quadrupled; and this terrifies her excf:edingly." (If it would
not terrify this lady, whose "word is a fact," too much, it would
be interesting to inquire what additional multiplication would
result from touching toes cross-wise with her magnetiser at the
same time.) "These observations and experiments I made in
silence, without a single remark to her, and she was long in ig-
norance of them, nor did she know them, till, after satisfying my-
self of their truth, I mentioned them to her. She was surprised,
and observPd for herself, and found my observations true."
(When m.·s,nerised, she should have known either everything
possible, or at least, everything her mesmeriser knew, without
his telling her.) "Even the power of telling past and future
events, in reference to others, is greatly increased by my hold-
ing her hands each in the corresponding one ofmy own. Whether
from her being in a very delicate state of health or not, she
exerts the power with great effort, and often requires repeated
efforts in the same direction at successive sittings before she
sees what I desire her to see. Any temporary increase of
debility, any headache, or other distressing sensation, or the
slightest uncomfortable emotion, prevents its exertion to much
purpose, or altogether. Before she could discern persons who
are strangers to her, many attempts for very many days were
required. She then saw them more clearly every day. Some-
times she can see persons but for an instant at a time, and
sometimes not more than once in this momentary manner
during my visit. She seldom saw the whole of a room at
once."
§ 362.. Of a pati.ent who i~itate.d the mesmeriser's gestures,
Dr. Ellwtson wntes, "Th1s patient had her eyes partially
open, though I never could satisfy myself that she saw."
Anot~er patient. would only imita~e when his eyes were open,
and h1s mesmenser stood before h1m, yet when he did imitate
he did not appear to look at his mesmeriser. Another, whos~
HISTORY OF MESMERISM, 97
eyes are not perfectly closed during the mesmeric state, de-
clares herself that she sees in the ordinary way .-Elliotson.
§ 3J3. When we open mechanically the eyes of a mesmeric
somnambulist, he does not see. It is so easy to convince one's
self of this fact, that it is not at all necessary to cite cases in
its support.
§.36+. Vision through the closed eyelids and through opaque
bodieS1s not only a real fact, but a very frequent fact. " There
is no magnetiser who has not observed it twenty times."
§ 363. The first case adduced in proof of clairvoyance is that
of Madame II--. When she is in the sleepwaking state, the
magnetis01· covers her head with a shawl, and speaks to her
about a letter. She asks to be allowed to read it. He puts
into her hand a printed paper. She remarks," You are mis-
taken doctor, this is not the letter which you have received;
they do not print letters." On being requested to read a single
line, she grows impatient, complains of the heat, and is ac-
cordingly awoke. "The fact," says Teste, "of which this first
sitting satisfied us, was, that Madame Hortense, with her eyes
and face almost entirely covered with a thick woollen shawl,
had been able instantly to discover that the characters traced
on the paper which I had presented to her were printed, and
not manuscript."(!) She, afterwards, her eyes being ban-
d::tged, tells that a given book is a book of verse; helps herself
to a volume from her husband's book-case, and reads a sentence
in it correctly; she plays at cards also. A stranger produces
a book out of his own pocket. Madame is " in evident agita-
tion"-she tries to read a passage, but fails. She afterwards
does read a verse in a book brought by a visitor-reads the title
of a book after the lights were all put out-and reads through
three sheets of strong paper.
§ 366. Before reading th~ word~ in the b.ook brought by the
vis1tor, Madame H-- retued With Teste mto the next room,
and bcinO' all the while in the state of somnambulism, begs
him' to te?z her the words the visitor will require her to read !
§ 367. A sentence is written on a scrap of paper, inclo~ed
in a box. which is sealed up by Dr. Latour, and left w1th
Madame II--. In three days, Dr. L-- calls and examines
the box, finds his seals unbroken, and Madame tells him the
sentence he has written. (Vide§ 43.)
§ 3G8. One of the somnambulists lost her lu~idity for. three
weeks, in consequence of the bad humour Mons.~.eur was m one
day when he magnetised her.- Teste.
§ 369. A young woman, aged sevente_
en, perf~ctly blind,
was mesmerised by Mr. Peale. "In this conditl?n, a gold-
faced watch being presented tQ her, she t~ld the tlme of day,
though neither so promptly, nor at each tnal so accurf!lely! as
I have wi essed on other occasions. Mr. Peale, covermg hrm·
G
98 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
self with a straw bonnet, and standing behind her, at least si.x
or ei<Tht feet from her chair, she was asked what he _had on h1s
head
0
? Her reply to this was a dis~reeable hyste~·1cal },aug~.
On being asked what sh~ was lauglnng at, she repl1ed, 0, 1t
is so queer." "What is so queer?" "Mr. Peale." "vVhy
is he queer?" "0, he has a straw bonnet on hi~ head."
§ 370. The mesmeriser wills in silence that h1s sleepwaker
shall see the sun, and then he asks her what she sees? "Oh,
I see the sun. It dazzles me, and makes my eyes water ;" and
releasino- her hands from the mesmeriser'>: grasp, she pressed
them cl~sely to her eyes, as if to shut out the brilliancy of _the
light, while the tear-drops started beneath her_ closed eyehd~,
and trickled down her cheek." She then descnbes most poeti-
cally an eclipse of the sun; a night scene, with the moon
shining; the ocean, " which she had never seen before," (she
could not, therefore, have been either to London or Paris.)
She next sees, and minutely and graphically describes, the
Tuilleries, at Paris, its various statues; St. James's-park, Lon-
don, even to a black swan on the Serpentine, which gives Dr.
C--an opportunity of introducing a little historical infor-
mation upon this rara avis. A steam-ship on the water, a
rainbow, and a terrific tempest, follow in succession. And all
this was seen, and beautifully described, by a patient who had
never been out of America, "in obedience to the mesmeriser's
silent will." The case is considered by its narrator to illus-
trate "in a peculiarly impressive and striking manner, the
beauty and sublimity of thP mesmeric influence."-Caldwell.
§ 371. A "pious, solitary" man in Philadelphia is consulted
by a wife, disconsolate at the prolonged absence of her hus-
band, a sea captain. The pious one becomes self-entranced,
and on recovering, informs the ladv that her husband is in a
certain coffee-house in London, and has been delayed by special
business, which he describes. This all proves true, of course.
-Phreno-Magnet.
§ 3'72. .!J.fter a robbery, committed fourteen miles off, Dr.
Engledue mesmerises one of his patients, and learns from her
when, how, and by whom, the robbery was done but not (at
least, that he does not mention) where the stolen' goods were
to be found.-Zoist.
§ 373: ~r. Spurrell_lays claim to having discovered " a new
faculty 1_nc1dent to cla1rv:oyants, which is, that after being once
thrown 1~to the mesmenc trance, when demesmerised-what-
ever the mterval before they are again put into the sleep _
they_ can. narrate particulars of everything that has passed' in
the mtenm, afar or near;" or, as he afterwards explains it
rather more clearly, ~' w hatev~r o~curred at any particula;
spot tha~ I ,~hose to d~rect the patt~nt'~ attention to before I
awoke h~m. For example: A. B. 1s d1rected, when mesmer-
HIS'l'OR Y OF MESMERIRM. gg
ised, to notice wh<~:t takes -rtace in t~e interior of Buckingham
Palace for the ensumg fortmght, and 1s then demesmerised. At
the end of that time, A. B. recollects nothing of the matter until
~e h';lS been ag~in mesmerised, when he immediately narrates,
m m~nute det~1l, all that has t<..ken place in the palace during
!he tu:ne spec1fied.. The account of this most impertinent ideal
~ntrustOn on the pnvacy of the highest personages of the realm
lS, perhaps, as ui1'gusting as anything in the book. When the
mesmeric Asmodeus was at a loss to distinguish the parties at
the state- ball, he mentally looked into each nobleman's pocket,
and read his card !-Spurrell.
§ 374. Intuition, prevision, ~c.-Miss M. R., "who possesses
a very good general knowledge of anatomy," is in a state of
mesmeric lucidity. Amongst other patients"brought to her for
examination is Mr. A. She delivers judgment on three sev-
eral occasions.
1st time.-" Mr. A. Heart sound, lungs right, liver good,
stomach very narrow and rather out of order, together with the
bowels. Brain : some blood towards the back part, near the
bottom of it."
2nd time.-" Mr. A . Stomach and bowels good, but seem to
have been out of order lately. Lungs, liver, heart, kidneys,
bladder, spine, all sound. Brain rather bloody, lowish down
towards the back part of it."
3rd time.~" Mr. A. All right, but rather fluttered. Brain
appear-; tinged with blood in some parts, towards the back part
of the head."
On examining Mr. A., a secon 1 clairvoyant gave precisely
the same opinions. "N. B." says Mr. John Patchett, there-
porter-" Mr. A. has always been subject to great giddiness and
stupefaction, the result of an injury on the brain when about
twenty years of age ; the stomach is known to be very small,
and of weak digestive powers."
§ 375. Mr. Sunter narrates the following:-" A Miss S. who
had for yeaTs been afflicted with an abscess of the hip-joint,
had had the advice of several of the faculty, but without re-
ceiving any more than a temporary benefit. On being placed
in contact with the clairvoyant, he was desired to examine her,
which he did by moving his fingers over the body and limbs.
He said there was a palpitation of the heart; the lungs ap-
peared healthy, the liver good, but the stomach weak. He
then discovere<l the abscess; described particularly its locality,
its extent, and appearances; said it could be removed by tl~e
application of a poultice of hemlock and marshmallows : this
was done, and in ten days she could walk as well as ever. ~n
a second examination, he ord, ·ed the part to be fomented With
the mallows; and now, thoug. 'Ytly six weeks since the first
100 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
application, she is as ~'Ve~l as ever ?he was in her life." There
are many somewhat s1m1lar cases m the Ph1·~no-.JIIIagnet.
§ 376. A patient pr~dicts for herself swelling of the face and
infiltration of the eyehds ;-both duly occur. .
§ 377. Madame H. prophesies that she shall have a fnght
and a miscarriage ;-they both ensue. .
§ 378. Miss Clary has consumption. She pred1cts the com·s~
of her disease. "On the 2nd and 3rd of June," says she, "I
shall be sick ; the 4th, I cease to see." On the 4th, she uied.
§ 379. Madame B., during her mesmeric sleep, fancies, erro-
neously, that she has broken one of some valuable china plates
which she had previously been cleaning. On being awoke, she
afterwards actually does break a plate. "In her sleep," says
Teste," .Madame B. had taken the futU?·e for the past." (!)
§ 380. Madame Teste predicts her own death. A most pa-
thetic account of his own sufferings on the occasion is given by
her husband, and magnetiser; but, after a sort of fit at the time
appointed, Madame opened her eyes and spoke. She had
taken a lethargy for death."(!)
§ 381. In predicting the death of a child that was danger-
ously ill, the somnambulist made " an error of only two days."
§ 382. Koreff, in his letter to Deleuse, states that somnam-
bulists often deceive themselves in taking dangerous crises, or
violent syncopes for death. " I own," says Teste, " that al-
most always the predictions of somnambulists relatively to
others, have not the precision of those which concern them-
selves personally." A somnambulist can tell how many drops
of blood there are in his heart. A woman, in a state of som-
nambulism, is conscious of her pregnancy from the first hour
of conception; she feels whether she is or is not in a disposi-
tion to conceive; nay, she will not be pregnant for eight days,
when she will tell, without ever being mistaken, the very sex
of her infant.''-Teste.
§ 383. " If the person about whom the individual magnetised
is consnlted, be present, the magnetiser brings them both into
correspondence by contact. Is he absent, a lock of his hair is
merely approximated to the hand of the magnetised individual:
the latter tells what it is without looking at it, also to whom
the hair belongs, where the person from whom the hair came
is at_ the. present mo~ent; what ?e is doi?g, and with respect
to h1s d1sease, she g1ves all the mformatwn above-mentioned
(viz., advice far superior to that of physicians,) and that with
as much accuracy as if a post-mortem examination of the body
had been made."*
"' Xavier Fontana, in ~841, quotP-d by Teo~te, in reference to what he
terms ''one of the most rmportant cases which the history of magnetism
now possesses."
HISTORY OF MESMERISM, 101
EFFECTS ON THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES AND :MORAL
FEELINGS.
§ 384. Separated from the usual action of the senses, the
mind appears to gain juster notions, to have quite a new sense
of spiritual things, and to be lifted nearer to the fountain of all
good and of all truth. The great indication of this elevated
state of feeling is a horror of falsehood, which I have found
common to all sleepwakers. Sincerity is their especial cha-
racteristic; they cannot feign or flatter; they seem to be taken
out of common life, with all its heartless forms and plausible
conventions. The increased sincerity which persons manifest
in the mesmeric state would alone pronounce it the parent of a
quickened reuson. They perceive all the irrationality of
falsehood.
§ 385. The sensibility is exalted and refined. Mdlle. M--
utterly insensible to poetry in her waking state; when sleep-
waking she "felt all its charms." Another person is fond of
music only during the mesmeric state.
§ 386. The attraction towards the mesmeriser testified by the
patient is of a nature totally distinct from the promptings of
passion. If compared to any love, it must be likened to self-
love. Nothing can be more evident than that it is an instinct,
not a passion.
§ 387. The sleepwaker's will is not mBrely suspended, but
subdueJ, and actually held subject, by his mesmeriser. "He
adopts, pro tempore, the likings and dislikings of his .mesmer-
iser."
§ 388. A mesmeriser can always so strengthen the virtuous
tendencies developed by his patient in sleepwaking, as to pro-
long them, as it were, into the waking state.
§ 389. The sleepwaker can discuss subjects, which in the
waking state are far beyond the scope of his capacity, and
solve questions which, at other times, are to him as an un-
known tongue. Memory is extremely increased in power.
§ 390. When the mesmeric sleep is perfect, the subsequent
oblivion is so to.
§ 391. It is undoubtedly true that the mesmeriser has the
p0wer of impressing some things upon the memory of hi!" pa-
tient, in such a manner as that the latter shall retain them,
and them alone, on awaking. He can also fix the exact time
of r~::membrance, and not until the very moment fixed upon
arrives, shall the patient remember the circumstance in ques-
tion.
§ 392. If a second patient were mesmerised in the same
room, the one already in the mesmeric state could indicate
with exact precision the degrees of sleep through which the
other patient was passing.
102 HISTORY OF MESMER! M.
~ 393. " Nothing can be more .contradictory or unsatisfyi~g
than the account which mesmensed persons render of their
own mode of sensation."-Townshend.
§ 394. Patients feel placid,. serene, and comforta?le, ~hen
mesmerised by operators of nnld, benevolent, an~ lnnd dispo-
sitions, "both during the experiments and on bemg restored;"
but operated on by persons of harsh, overbearing, or irritable
tempers, and of less sympathetic feelings, shew their manifesta-
tions witb less grace and energy, and not unfrequently feel
sensations quite the reverse of the former ; nay, to a certain
extent, from the same operator, the effects are found to vary
with the different states of his mind or body. Licentious com-
pany are awed on the entrance of a person of high moral cha-
racter and integrity, from his sympathy affecting corresponding
cords amongst the organs of their moral sentiments.-Mr.
Potchett.
§ 395. A lady, describing subsequently what she had expe-
rienced during the mesmeric state, confesses, that though her
magnetiser could throw her into the sleep, when in another
room, by the mere silent exercise of his will, yet during her
somnambulism she could not read his thoughts.
§ 396. "When there is a disposition on the part of mesmeric
patients not to perform an experiment, it is better to drop it
at once, as they then frequently say anything to get rid of
you; but I never yet have known them to fail in an experi-
ment when the desire to perform it originated with them-
selves."-Dr. ~Fahnestock.
§ 397. A mesmeric patient of Dr. Tanner's, (of New York,)
says, during her sleepwaking, "In fiye minutes I will come
out of this a perfect rnaniac, and remain so until Wednesday
morning at ten o'clock, when you must take it off, neither be-
fore nor after, but at ten exactly,-don't forget." She uses the
expression "I will," on many other occasions, and always per-
forms what she thus wills.
§ 398. In Mr. Lang's second case, the hand was raised cata-
leptically. The patient was asked "if she \mew that her hand
was raised ? She answered that she did not feel it raised. On
being told to put down her hand, she did so, and said she was
conscious of its being put down." During her sleepwaking
she -ridicuLed the idea of seeing when her eyes were shut, or
through a wall.
§ 3!)9. In the third case, the sleepwaker described occur-
rences which had taken place previously, and at a time when
the patient could not have been in a mesmeric state. For ex-
m;nple, she told of a pa·rticular lady, (of w.hom she had no pre-
vwus knowledge,) not only how many chtldren she had alive,
but how many were dead, and whether they were boys or
girls.- Vide § 373.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 103
§ 400. If she had predicted, during the mesmeric state, that
she should fall asleep at a certain time, she never fails to do so
at the appointed hour; and it has happened that she has fallen
asleep at the time fixed upon, quite unprepared, in some other
apartment than the one she usually slept in. When this oc-
curred, however, she was under no difficulty, as, although
sound asleep, she r.ould walk with the utmost precision to her
room and go to bed. " In a similar way any arrangement
made during sleep will be kept when she is awake. She will
awake quite una,..-are of what she is to perform; but, some-
how, when the hour comes, she feels impelled, in an inde-
scribable manner, to perform what she has undertaken."
§ 401. The fourth patient does some sewing work "more
correctly than if it had been done in her waking state." In
the sixLh ca~e, the patient, during sleepwaking, produced har-
mony on a musical instrument, which "whilst awake he could
not even handle properly," and could read, with his eyes ban-
da~ed, " in a better style than in his ordinary waking state."(!)
'9 402. The seventh patient has a scalded foot, but when m
the mesmeric state, she stated " that her foot was not sore, and
that neither of them. was scalded or burned." Several of
these patients gave themselves new names when sleepwaking,
and would then on1y answer to these.-Lang.
§ 403. During sleepwaking, of the various intellectual facul-
ties and moral feelings, some beeome very dull, some very
acute, some perverted, so that the patient may be various1y ec-
centric, delirious, or mad; or, on the other hand, variously
childish and fatuitous; and at the same time, in some points,
excessively clever.
§ 40 I. The reason of a certain patient (a gentleman aged
eighteen) "declaring that he did not feel when his hand was
at first pinched, arose, not from this being the fact, but from
a disturbed state of his mind. He real!y was always found to
feel everywhere; but if anything was asked him respecting
himself, he invariably answered in the negative. In genuine
somnambulism very great deception has been attempted through
diseased aml ungovernable propensities."
§ 403. s1eepwaker predicted divers occurrences, an? then
said she should "now sleep for half an hour. But, m two
minutes, a fit, of which she had certainly shown no foreknow-
ledO'e, occurred, which broke it up."
§
0
400. A sleepwaker, predicting some wonderful phenom.e-
non to occur during his mesmeric state on a certain day, w1ll
chanO'e the time, if told that that first appointed would be in-
conv~lient to the mesmeriser. "This has been done and the
prediction been verified, the phe!lomenon occurring at ~he
time req uested ; and yet the phenomenon has been genume
and unquestionable."-Elliotson.
104 'HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
§ 407. "Madame Hortense.i~ far-infinitely far-from hav~ng
in her habitual ::.tate that fac1hty of thought and of express10n
which the magnetic sleep confers on her."
§ 408. We are cautioned against "the. tricks of somnambu-
lists and the disposition to deceive, even m those persons who,
when awake, are most trustworthy."
§ 409. Oblivion on awaking is the characteristic trait of the
magnetic sleep ; but it sometimes depends oil: the magnetiscr
that this leading circumstance should not ex1st, and that the
somnambulist should accurately remember, on awaking, all
that he has done, and said, and h~ard, during his sleep. Let
the magnetiser only wish energetically that it should be so, and
let him express this wish aloud, in order that it may pass into
the mind of the person magnetised, that is the whole secret.''
§ 410. "I maintain, that from the moment the state of som-
nambulism is perfect, all the faculties which appertain to this
s: ate are in their last degree of development."
§ 411. "Magnetise an idiot-he thinks justly. Magnetise a
madman-he thinks rationally. Magnetise a dying man-he
will tell you, with all his good sense, as much as there will
remain strength to speak."
§ 412. "A somnambulist, the moment that sleep delivers her
up to her magnetiser, no longer sees, no longer hears, no longer
acts, but through him; and though she still retains the discern-
ment of right and wrong, she belongs, body and soul, to him,
if he is base and dastardly enough to use such power. By
isolating successively by my will each of the instincts of a som-
nambulist, I have su~ceeded in rendering him alternately vain,
lying, a gourmand, and a sensualist; whence it follows that. it
is possible-at least, to a certain extent-to excite, eventually,
in the mind of a somnambulist, that propensity which we have
reason to wish him to have. Not only is it possible to force
the person magnetised to avow the thoughts occupying Jus or
her mind, but we may even extinguish this thought in her, and
substitute another; that is, in one word, we may modify at
pleasure the intellectual disposition of a somnambulist, as we
have said that we modified, in one of our own, the instinctive
disposition. It is, unfortunately, too true that magnetism may
produce, between two persons of different sexes, a profound,
extreme, a11.d insurmountable attachment."-Teste.
§ 413. "I can decidedly state, from observation, that the
~ntellectual faculties are surprisingly increased and developed
m the sleep, so much so as to lead to the opinion that there is
a general rise anij- e~altation ofthe whole moral being when
under tl~e mesmen~ m_fluence." ~none case, the patient in the
mesmenc state, "1s mvested w1th an apparently prophetic
character, and a species of eivine knowledge seems to be con-
ferreq upon her."
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 105
§ 414. "Generally, if not always, the mesmeric state pro-
d~ces, on the part ?f the patients, such a high tone of spiritu-
allty and se~se of ngl:t as to m~ke them less than ever disposed
to an acqmescence m what 1s wrong: the feeling produced
b~tween mesmeriser and patient is rather that which exists
between two sisters, than anything else. So far from the mes-
meric sleep producing d. state of feeling inconsistent with what
is right, it is considered by the most experienced operators that
a great increase of the moral perceptions is created and brouo-ht
out_, and that, if the mesmeriser were capable of commanding
an 1mproper or reprehensible act, the patient would revolt fron1
an obedience to his will with a language and in a manner even
more decided and peremptory than when in a waking state."
§ 415. A sor.ialist girl is mesmerised by a gentleman " of
strong religious feelings, whose knowledge of Scripture is most
profound and accurate, and whose theological tenets are some-
what peculiar. Religion is, in fact, the uppermost occupation
of his mind,-and mark the effect, at once, on the socialist pa-
tient. She straightway becomes in her sleep most conversant
with the Bible; she compares one text with another ; she in-
terprets the Old Testament by the New; she discovers the
deepest meaning in the most abstruse chapters; she is an ex-
positor of what she declares are the real doctrines of the Gos-
pel." This girl is, at another tiro.e, placed en rapport with a
gentleman whose studies are altogether of an astrological char-
acter, and her talk is straightway of the "stars." She is placed
en rapport with a lady, who declares that her innermost
thoughts are laid bare by the patient. "The patient is sympa-
thetically united with the mind of the mesmerist."-Sandby.
§ 416. At one stage there is an extraordinary power of con-
centration of thought, or disposition to rapt contemplation; at
another stage, the discursive or imaginative faculties are excited
into full play. Patients, during nervous sleep, can be excited
to manifest the passions and emotions, and certain mental func-
tions, in a more striking manner than the same individuals are
capable of in the waking condition. During hypnotism, we
acquire the power, through the nerves of common_sensation, of
rousing any sentiment, feeling, passion, or emot10n, and ~ny
mental manifestation, according to our mode of manipulatmg
the patient-Braid.
§ 417. Mr. Catlow considers that there is "tbrpor of con-
sciousness and volition," when the patient can be rendered
cataleptic. Lemon closed his eyes after having gaze~ for two
minutes; he declared that he was not asleep. On bemg asked
where his arms are, he replies, "he does not know." Here-
turned the same answer after having raised them in obedience
to a touch of his operator. When ordered, he instantly lowered
106 HISTORY OF ;t\'IESMERISM.
•
them. He wa3 considered to have been in the cataleptiform
state.
§ 418. Phreno-Magnetism.-Of one patient, when. in the
mesmeric state, Dr. Elliotson remarks," whenever I pomted to
self-esteem, she withdrew her head from me and raised it as
hitrh as possible and frowned: if I pointed to dest1·uctiveness,
th~ effect w'as greater; she withdrew her head violently as far
as possible, and frowned: when I pointed to b~nevoler:ce, she
moved towards me and her brow relaxed: and lf I pomted to
attachment or friendship, she moved and bent her head as •
closely as possible to me, without coming into actual contact.
If I touched over any of those organs, the effect was quicker;
but it was always quick. I could never affect any other cerebral
organ than those four; and in my present experience these are
the organs which are the most commonly mesmerisable."
§ 419. With another patient, on touching attachment, she
squeezed my hand and smiled; destructiveness, she let go my
hand and frowned. If a stranger's hand were placed in her's,
and attachment touched, she withdrew her hand from his and
frowned: "and this is the course the excitement of attachment
has taken ever since. The attachment was to me, her mes-
meriser, and it made her dislike all others the more it was ex-
cited." But if benevolence was touched, she no longer repelled,
but liked, a stranger. It was in this case that Dr. Elliotson
discovered that mesmerising an organ on one side the head
only, affected merely the c01-responding side of the body. " If
I place my fingers," says he, " in her 1--ight hand, and mcsmerise
attachment on her right side, she squeezes them and mistakes
me for a dear friend; if then I mesmerise self-esteem on the
left side, she still speaks to me kindly, and squeezes my fingers
with the right hand as much as ever. But if I place my fingers
in her left hand, she repels them and speaks scornfully to me,
mistaking me for some one she dislikes." By continuing to
point at violence or pride, she may be worked up into such
pride as to say that "she looks upon me as dirt." (~) How-
ever she may at first refuse to sing, perseverance in mesmerising
attachment will induce her at last; "but I never have suc·
ceeded by attempting to excite music."
§ 420. Dr. Elliotson has not in any patient been able to ex-
cite mesmerically more than the following five organs-viz.,
attachment, benevolence, destructiYeness, pride, and veneration.
§ 421. Mr. Atkinson having discovered in the occipital re·
gion two new organs, one of common sensation, and one of vol-
untary motion, Dr. Elliotson wished to test their functions. He
found that by placing his finger over common sensation-i. e.,
below the centre of the occiput-that his patient had perfect
feeling in every part which he had previously found insensible.
Pressure over the muscular organ caused the limbs of the cor-
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 107
responding side to stiffen, and be sustained in any given position.
The muscles relaxed when the cerebral organ was no longer
excited.-Eltiotson.
§ 422. A case is given in the Phreno-Magnet, where touch-
ing a cerebral organ of one side only magnetised the corres-
ponding side of the body. Numerous cases in illustration of
mcsmero-phrcnology are recorded in the same work. The first
given will suffice as a specimen of the rest, and of those usually ·
presented at public exhibitions.
§ 423. Mr. Spencer Hall magnetised his servant William by
thumbing and looking intently into his eyes. The eyes closed
in two minutes and a half, and Mr. Hall made passes over them,
and the head, chest, &c. Slips of paper were then handed to
him, and lte wrote the name of each organ to be developed with
chalk, on the black board behind the subject, before he oper-
ated. The first was caleulation, and the mode of operation in
this and every other case appeared to be merely placing the tip
of one finger on one-half of the organ, (regarding each organ
as having a corresponding half on the other hemisphere of the
head,) and gently pressing upon it, not continuing any mag-
netic action the while, but repeating the demagnetising and
remagnetising before each successive experiment.
Calculation alone.-The patient" seemed to be calculating."
Language conjoined, (by touching the eyelid;) a simple
addition sum was heard.
Causality and language.-He said he should like to know
"the cause of a wheel acting in that mechanical manner."
Self-esteem.-He arranged his dress conceitedly; atlitudi-
nised and delivered a speech on teetotalism.
Tune.-He sang.
Constructiveness.-He drew circles with one hand on the
palm of the other, and said he was "squaring a model."
Philoprogenitiveness.-He rocked his chair and dandled an
imaginary bahy, and prattled. Tune conjoined, he sang" Little
Jack Horner."
Caution.-He buttoned his pockets ann coat.
Acquisitiveness.- Hc picked his mesmeriser's pocket of a
paper.
Conscientiousness.-He restored the paper with contrition.
Firmness.-He sprang up and buttoned his coat, stamped on
the floor, and with a most determined expression of features
declared, "I'll stand here as long as I please, sir; therefore
put that in your pocket, sir."
Imitation of the past. -He said, in evident mimicry," I'll
apufy the topic."
Benevo]ence.-He took a penny from his pocket and threw it
down, as if to a beggar, and said, " Take that, buy some bread;
I don't like to see such distress."
108 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
Adhesiveness or friendship.-He clung to his mesmeriser
with every silent expression of attachment.
Veneration.-He clasped his hands, "raised his hea~, and
appeared to be in the act of adoration ; and the express10~ of
his features and attitude was beautiful, as hope was combmed
with veneration. To those were added language, on which
he commenced a prayer; then tune, on which he sang a line
or two of the psalm beginning "Great God! from wh.om all
blessings flow;" but his voice sank to a murmur, and h1s ope-
rator said that " the intensity ofveneration overpowered lan-
guage."
§ 424. Mr. Patchett, who informs us that "partly through
conducting experiments, and partly through his standing in
society," he has been able to make many converts, gives the
following, amongst many other illustrations, the results of nu-
merous experiments :-
Locality.-Preparing for commencing a journey, sometimes
asking if it is likely to rain, snow, &c., "Oh! I am afraid I
shall get a cold with my light shoes on ; but I must go," &c.
Near the front of Ideality.-Making a shirt, washing the floor,
rolling cards, and numerous other employments suited to their
respective occupations, with sometimes, " Oh ! give me some
work. I want something to do. Give me something to do," &c.
Near the back of Ideality.-Queen Catherine's defence, with
great dignity, in the style of Mrs. Siddons; Juliet's soliloquy;
Elvira's address to Pizarro; &c.
Causality.-Persons enter deeply into cause and effect in
reference to trade, politics, religion, &c., if they are intelligent.
"I wish I was a queen; I would make better trade." " By
what means?" "That is difficult to determine."
§ 425. In one of Mr. Jones's cases the following mesmerico-
phrenological facts were elicited :-The cerebral organs were
excited by being touched at different parts with the point of a
black-lead pencil.
Alimentiveness.-One portion touched, the patient wanted
ale; another spot, porter; a third spot, water; a fourth spot,
wine.
. Philoprogenitiveness and Jndividuality.- The lowest portion
of individuality being touched, he would like his child to be
called "some common name; let it be Jack or Tom." The
highest portion being next excited, he said" No; he must have
a big name; :1 respectable, Jong name."
Locality.-Lower portion gave the desire to travel through
flat lands; higher porti~n, through a mo'!'ntainous country.
_Order:-On the left side; lower portl~n made the patient
thmk his trousers shabby on the left s1de; higher portion
touched, he thought them quite smart.
Form.-In different parts, gives a preference for a round form,
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 109
a square form, a three-square one, a long-square one, a short-
square one, &c.
§ 426. Mr. Stenson discovers that, by exciting with a pencil
different portions of the organ of colour, the patient sees the
different colours of the prismatic spectrum one by one, exactly
as they are placed in the spectrum. Different portions of form
give the idea of circles, triangles, and squares, according to the
spot excited.
§ '127. On veneration and language being excited together ia
a deaf-and-dumb patient, he knelt down and repeated the Lo1·d's
pr-ayer with the fingers. (!)
§ 428. "By touching the hand of a highly susceptible patient
at various points, we produced manifestations of benevolence,
acquisitiveness, &c., &c., quite as strong as those induced by
any other means."-Spencer Hall.
§ 429. Dr. Buchanan, in impressible subjects, excites the
cerebral organs without any previous mesmerisation. He finds
that he can either strengthen or weaken the sight, accelerate
or arrest peristaltic action, quicken or retard the pulse, and
increase or diminish muscular energy, by exciting particular
portions of the brain.
§ 430. Mr. Braid for a long time tried in vain to produce
phrenological manifestations during the hypnotic state, but
once succeeding, no difficulty seems afterwards to have occurred.
He found, moreover, that pressure over parts which had no
cerebral substance directly subjacent was followed by special
m:mifestations. Over the root of the nose, pressure excited
immoderate laughter; over the chin, caused a catch in the
bre.:thing, sobbing, and sighing. "By touching both nose and
chin at the same time, there was the most ludicrous combina-
tion of laughing and crying, each struggling for the mastery."
Pressure over time caused a desire to write; between time and
wit, a desire to be judicious; between wit and causality, to be
clever, &c. Pressure against the upper edge of the orbit, care
being taken not to press against the globe of the eye, caused
spectra of a bright glowing, or cheeTjul descTiption; on the
lower margin of the orbit, spectra of a painful or distressing
chaTacter. In this p:1tient, pressure alone would excite; in
the next, pressure had no effect, friction alone would excite the
organs. Here friction over the nose excited the desire for some-
thing to smell ; ovPr the chin for something to eat. In another
patient, friction over time excited the desire to waltz; over wit,
the desire to walk; over veneration, to sing. In another, when
benevolence was excited, the patient expressed a wish to travel.
Friendship and adhesiveness being excited on one side, and
destructiveness on the other, the patient with one aqn and
hand shielded her friend, and with the other struck a blow at
an imaginary adversary. § 286.-Braid.
110 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
§ 431 . The following are a few of the more remarkable new
cerebral organs for which phrenology is indebted to modern
mesmerism. Three pairs of organs of marvellousness ; one
pair, of faith; one, of human credence-all very necessary to
the science; one pair, for ancient events; one, for recent events;
one, for seeing old places; one, for seeing new places ; method;
regularity; filial love; love of pets, as distinguished from philo-
progenitiveness; calorification; frigorification; industry; aqua.-
tiveness (swimming?); sarcasm; suspicion; generalization; in-
vention; organ:;; relating to architecture; waterfalls; meteors;
st::ttuary; caverns; the heavens; the earth; stones; the ocean;
landscapes; the sense of the beautiful; confidence; adoration;
obedience; velocity; riding; walking; climbing; descending;
sailing; rerostation; evolution ; convolution; writiug; dra>Ying;
cogilativeness; tragedy ; comedy; loq ua:ily; excavati vencss;
mendicity; weeping; laughter; diving; pulling; pushing; lift-
ing; dropping; leverage; retrogressive motion; shooting; spear-
ing; crouching; springing; striking; slinging; pTevision; in-
sanity; childishness; manliness; patriotism; somnolence; dis-
ease; health; buffoonery; sight; intoxication; murd"r; suicide;
baseness, or licentious ir.trigue; felony; mortalil!J; immoT-
tality; sublimity; desire to wander; falsehood; antipathy;
and desiTe to get maTTied. In confirmation of the existence of
each of these organs, with many more such, "facts" are to be
found in the PhTeno-Magnet and Magr.ct.
§ 432. Instinct of time. "The appreciation of time dis-
played by persons in the mesmeric state is remarkable." Anna
M--- did not know the time when her mesme_•isation com-
menced; but when in her slecpwal<ing state, on being asked
the hour, says it is ten o'clock: " the cathedral bell strikes ten
five seconds afteT." . . . "I used to r~mark that, when this
sleepwaker was asked the time, she did not reply so correctly
as above; but when, as was often the case, she spontaneousl.v
called out the hour, she never eTTP-d. The leasi degree o[effort,
on her part, seemed to spoil the instinct.-Tow:nshmd."
§ 433. Instinct of remedies. Mr. Townshend gives three
cases L> illustrate this power. 1. A poultice is prescribed for
a sore throat; 2. A blister for a pain in the side; 3. A course
of waters, and baths, and particular diet for hypochondriasis.
In the last case, the prescriber was also the patient. These
mesmeric prescriptions were all serviceable.
EFFECTS OF MESMERISM AS A REMEDIAL AGENT.
§ 43J. Amongs~ the diseases which are reported to have been
cured by mesmensm, occur the following :-Obstinate hernia;
bronchocele, of ~!even years standing ; stammering, of seven-
teen years duratwn.-Phreno-)lfagnet.
ltiSTORY OF 1\IESMERISM. 111
9<
133. Asphyxia in an infant; various kinds of palsy; chlo-
rosis ; occult cancer ; gout; sciatica; headaches; rheumatism,
convulsions; epilep~y; madness; fistulre and ulcers; chronic
deafness.
§ 43G. In the last case of deafness, which is given as the most
complete and conclusive, the degree of amendment was-even
according to the report-equivocal, and a wetting is said to have
brought on "a new (?) loss of hearing."
§ '.1·37. Teste arrives at the following conclu~ions :-
" 1. That magnetism succeeds chiefly in asthenic diseases
-that is, in those whose predominant character is a
general debility, such as chlorosis, amenorrhrea in con-
sequence of ancemia, scrofula, commencing phthisis,
mesenteric disease, white swelling, redema, passive
dropsies.
"2. In all the neuroses, such as epilepsy, chorea, hys-
teria, hemicrania, convulsions, spasms, &c.
"3. In partial neuralgire, as sciatica, &c.
"4. In changes of the fluids, accompanied or not by ab-
normal productions, such as rheumatism, gout, &c.-
Teste.
§ 438. In a chronic case, Dr. Elliotson has known it neces-
sary to practise mesmerism for two years. He records the fol-
lowing cures by means of mesmerism:-
Insanity; four cases-viz.
1. Periodical and furious delirium supervening on repeated
attacks of rheumatism affecting the head. Time, about
nine months.
2. Low, muttering, moody delirium, following violent deli-
rium. Time, less than a month.
3. Melancholy and nervousness. Time, three weeks.
4. Distraction, and tendency to injure herself-(she had,
at one time, to take ten and a half grains of muriate of
morphia every six hours, for a day or two, before she
slept.) (!) Time, nearly two months.
§ 439. Eight cases of St. Vitus's dance are next narrated. In
some the mesmerisation was only once performed; in most,
frequently repeated. None of the usual more striking mes-
meric effects were produced, but all the cases were cured.
§ 440. Palsy.
1. Incomplete paraplegia of lower extremities, chorea,
marked debility, in a girl aged twelve. Time, four
months.
2. Palsy, with epilepsy, sore head, and costiveness, in a
youth, aged thirteen. Time, three months.
3. Intermittent palsy. A woman, aged thirty-three, had
been affected with palsy (of motion) of the right side for
five years. The palsy was intermittent, commencing
112 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
during sleep, " with a severe fit and pain in the head,"
and usually lasted for five days out of every week. The
headache and tenderness of the spine were for a time
augmented. Tune of cure, between two and three
months.
4. Palsy of left arm, both legs and neck, with exquisite
tenderness of the neck, in a girl, aged twelve. Time,
three months.
5. Loss of voice in a lady, aged thirty. Time, a week.
(She was chlorotic, and over chlorosis Dr. Elliotson con-
siders that mesmerism has no control.) (~ 437.)
§ 441. Deafness and dumbness.-Thomas Russen, aged fif-
teen, attack brought on by fright. Time, seven weeks. (§159.)
§ 4!2. Epilepsy in a gentleman, aged sixteen. Time, five
months. Epileptic hysteria, with lockjaw and contraction of
one leg, in a woman, aged twenty-five. Time, four months.
Most violent hysterical convulsions, and delirium, with parox-
ysms of ecstasy and sleepwaking, &c., in a girl, aged sixteen.
Fits cured in four months; sleep\Yaking in two yean and a
half, but mesmerism omitted during much of the time. Extra-
ordinary fiis of jumping and clapping of hands for several
weeks, every spring and autumn; p:ttient conscious during the
attack. The woman was mesmerised, when the attacks came
on, for a year and a half. Hysterical epilepsy in a lady, aged
sixteen. She predicted the time of cure, which occurred in
four months. Epilepsy in a youth, aged nineteen. Time, four
months. Epilepsy in a young woman, aged sixteen. Benefited
very soon, but the mesmerism discontinued, and fits returned
in three weeks ; "has been mesmerised, more or le~s, ever
since April, 18L
12, and has now (July, 1844) been perfectly
free from her disease for nearly a year and a half."
§ 443. Intense hiccup, much benefited in a month, but mes-
merisation continued subsequently. One day she sprained and
bruised her ankle, but after being mesmerised her ankle was
perfectly free from pain for ten minutes, and afterwards none
the worse ; and on taking off' her stocking at night, the dis-
coloration had vanished.-Elliotson.
§ 444. Delirium from grief (more like intoxication) cured in
a few hours; sleep induced. Pains of legs and loins removed
in a few minutes without sleep. Chronic rheumatism, of seven
weeks standing, cured in th1·ee hours. Sciatica, of some months
standing, cured by five mesmerisations. Nervous contraction
of the arm, of several years standing, cured. Enlargement of
t~e parotid ~lar;ds in three sitting~. Incipient tonsillitis, by
SlX mesmensatwns.. A knee? "pamful, red, and swollen," by
-o.ne; redness an~ pa1r; bot~ disappeared during the mesmerisa-
hon. Rheumatism, m thrrty-four days. Acute rheumatism
in a little boy, in eighteen days. Lumbago, in two sittings.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 113
Chlorisis, in about seven weeks, (turpentine enemata &c. were
used at first, and iron subsequently, yet of course it was the
mesmerising that cured her !) Tic douloureux, in about a
month. Nervous affection of the breast, from suckling, in a
month. Headache, instantly. Inflammation of the knee from
an injury, at two mesmerisations. Inflamed eyelids, at two sit-
tings. Melancholy, in eight days. Hour-glass contraction,-
rcmoval of placenta; woman unconscious, being in the mes-
merised state. She had been mesmerised before.-Mr. Tubbs,
surgeon; in the Zoist.
§ 445. Affection of the heart, of eleven years standing. Af-
fection of the nervous system, and general debility of twelve
months standing; hysteric fits; violent pain on left side, and
Eencral weakness; rheumatic pains ; nervous affection of three
years standing; melancholy of twelve months standing; case
of apparent consumption ; deafness of two years standing; and
a case of wound of the leg.~.Mr. Brindley, a professional mes-
mcriAer, not a medical man; in the Zoist.
§ '140. Nervous affection, with tendency to fainting, and epi-
lepsy.-Earl Stanhope.
9447. Los~ of voice in -!!.lady.-Captain Anderson.
§ 448. Toothache ; headache ; rheumatic pains; " and pains
occasioned by contusions, burns, and any inflammation." Dis-
ease of the knee and severe rheumatic fever.-.M1-. Thompson,
not medical. ·
§ 449. Palpitations of the heart, pains in the head, and dis-
ease of one kidney.-JJ;Ir. Baldock, store-receiver.
§ 430. Mr. Braid considers that hypnotism will rapidly cure
many functional disorders most intractable, or altogether incu-
rable by ordinary remedies, and also many nervous complaints.
He narrates seven cases of weakness of sight improved; a case
of opacity over more than half the cornea cured; three cases of
congenital deafness and dumbness benefited, one in which the
patient was made to "hear, speak, and sing." "I have scarcely
met with a case of congenital deaf mute," says Mr. Braid,
"where I have not succeeded in making the patient hear in
some degree." The next is the case of a man being made able
to .~ing in tune who could not do so before; a case of loss of
smell cured ; three cases of tic douloureux cured; fourteen
cases of partial palsy ameliorated or cured, (including cases in
which there was an apoplectic tendency.) Eight cases of
chronic rheumatism cured; two of acute rheumatism; the first
case cured by hypnotism and vinum colchici ; the second, by
hypnotism and appropriate remedies. Two cases of irregular
muscular action; one of contraction of the muscles of the lower
extremity; five of nervous headache; two of ~pinal irritation;
four of epilepsy; one of lateral spinal curva1 ne ; three of pain
in the heart and palpitation; one of palpitation, dyspnrea,
114 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
dropsy, and leucorrhrea, cured. One case of valvul~r dis~ase
of the heart relieved. One of inveterate eczema and 1mpet1go,
with nervousness, cured in a few days. (!) One of impetigo
cured in a week. Three cases of" permanent contraction, or
tonic spasm" of different parts, cured.
EFFECTS OF MESMERISM ON BRUTES.
§ 451. The animals magnetised by Dr. Wilson were cats,
dogs, goats, pigs, horses, calves, a lioness, leopards, and ele-
phants; turkeys, geese, ducks, fowls, and macaws ; a dozen
small fish-roach, dace, gudgeons, and loach. The magnetic
operation consisted in making passes with the hands.
§ 452. The time required to induce sleep was very variable.
With cats and dogs, the shortest time mentioned is five min-
utes, usually ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, occasionally
an hour. If the animal was sleepy beforehand, the passes took
effect almost immediately, (dog Vick, p. 20 ;) if excited and
quarrelsome, the time required was longer than usual, (cat
Fuzzy, p. 20;) whilst at large, the dog Vick and cat Fuzzy,
"both of which had generally before been very soon affected,
resisted the passes for about an hour," but on being both put to-
gether under a gauze dish-cover, they were very soon sent to
sleep. When chained, the dog Mungo only yawned and looked
stupid, and snatched at the operator's hand several times, "but
net viciously." On being put under a cage, during the passes,
Mungo yawned twice, fell asleep in half an hour, and con-
tinued sleeping for an hour. With the pigs, an hour and
three-quarters, with the goat, half an hour, were required.
§ 453. The effects produced on cats and dogs were, sleep in
almost every instance; convulsive twitchings during the sleep
in six dogs; plaintive whining and moaning, as if from dream-
ing, in three. The immediate effects during the passes, before
sleep ensued, were, in dogs, restlessness, playfulness, yawning,
stretching, and in four, trembling. In a little red spaniel,
twitching convulsive motions of the neck, fore and hind legs,
"followed in succession as the passes were made from the head
over all the body, and when the operator ceased moving his
hand, and held it steadily at a short distance from it, (the dog,)
the trembling of its head and limbs becr1me.general. At inter-
vals its eyes closed, and it seemeJ to be asleep; still the passes
convulsed its limbs, but less strongly."
§ 45-1. In cats, furiousness, irritability, quarrelsomeness,
and in one, constant licking of the body, ensued. The goat
was put to sleep, but" only slightly." In the horse: yawn-
ing, heaviness ~f the eyes, twinkling of the eyelids at first, but
eyes kept steadtly open towards the last; licking of the hind
leg. ln the calf; restlessness, Geep, lengthened breathing, and
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 115
rubbing of the head against the legs of the operator. In
pigs: plaintive, shrill squeaking, sweating about the ears and
neck, and in patches over the body, " and the other excretions
were also as much affected, and at each pass, spasmodic con-
vulsions of the ear, snout, and the whole body, were strongly
developed." The lioness stopped eating, and grasped the joint
between her jaws, and retained it in her mouth, without once
relaxing her hold, for full twenty minutes; she cea:;ed growl-
ing, and her eyes closed at times for short intervals. On leop-
ards, no effects were produced. The elephants appeared
fidgetty, restless, and angry. On one occasion, an elephant
was sent to sleep in five minutes, though previous attempts,
continued for an hour, had only made him appear fidgetty and
irritable.
§ 455. In ducks, the passes induced restlessness, struggling,
and endeavours to escape; the wings "made convulsive twitch-
ings as the hand moved over them." After magnetising the
ducks for half an hour," one or two became apparently drowsy,
... one or two yawned at different times;" when acted upon
for a longer time, "they all became very agitated," rubbing
and biting themselves all over. In geese, tremors: "the neck
quivered obedient to the passes." In turkeys, restlessness.
In macaws, restlessness, making a great noise, and trembling
all over. In fowls, (in a cage,) at first, noise and restlessness;
the birds then fell asleep, were upright and motionless; then
allowed the body to be touched and stroked without moving,
and by degrees, awoke. "It was about their roosting time."
§ 456. Fish.-Passes induced them to come to the top of the
water, :J.ud put their noses out. After stroking the back of
one, 'l.nd then placing the finger against its mouth, "it followed
the finger, as it described a circle, round and round for at least
a dozen times."*-Dr. Wilson.
§ 457. As it would be rather difficult to persuade brutes to
intentionally deceive by presenting mesmeric phenomena
merely to please their mesmeriser, facts elicited from experi-
ments upon them are least exceptionable. But what single
instance of undoubted magnetic action have we in all this?
That the constant repetition of passes should be viewed by an
animal with perfect unconcern was scarcely to be expected.
Ignorant of the intention of the operator, the animal would feel
amusement, alarm, or anger, according to the degree of intelli-
gence, its domestication, its disposition, and its habits. Foiled
in its altempt to avoid the passes, it would become enraged and
""It happened to me one day," says Teste, "to magnetise a cat for an
entire hour. I sweated large drops of sweat at it; but at length I fancied
that I had succeeded, when the noise of a dish suddenly dissipated my illu·
sion, by making the villanous beast, who feigned to be asleep on them, fly
from oil" my knees."
116 HISTORY OF MESMERISM,
furious. or terrified and trembling; or, tired of attending to
processes it could not comprehend, it would at length seek in
repose the escape denied to its efforts. There is not an e_a:ect
stated by Dr. Wilson to have been caused by the magnetismg
that we do not find equally occasioned in animals in a variety
of wayfE. Thus, if a cat or dog be placed on the hearth-rug
before a warm fire, and spoken to coaxingly, it will probably
in a short time fall asleep. Tickle a cat behind the ears, and
the same result will follow. That the sleep induced by Dr.
Wilson was nothing but common sleep is very evident; its du-
ration was usually short, and frequently the slightest cause was
su!ficient to awaken. A tom-cat that had been often magne-
tised, after receiving the passes might be pulled about, lifted
up by the nape of the neck, and have its ears tickled with a
pen, and would remain motionless the while: "the cat was
then said to be in a state of. catalepsy." Any tame cat, when
teased, either becomes savage and excited, or-whal is quite as
common, if experience has told it that there is no esc::tpe-stu-
pid, motionless, and, to all appearance, half-dead. Tbe ani-
mals in which convulsive twitchings occurred, judging from
the general description, were suffering from fear. Frighten a
horf:'e, and it will sweat; a cat, and other excretions than the
perspiratory will be excited. Anything that is quite strange
to an animal, that it cannot understand, especially if, at the
same time, its natural mode of shewing displeasure and resist-
ance prove of no avail, will produce alarm. And what can we
imagine more mysterious to a dog, a horse, or a pig, or more
affronting to a leopard, a lion, or an elephant, than for a digni-
fied man gravely to paw the air before it for an hour or more?
The beast would think it meant as a solemn mockery. For a
dog to convulsively twitch in his sleep is very common, and
such an occurrence would be more likely to happen during the
somewhat disordered state of the nervous system altending
sleep induced under unusual circumstances. There is no uni-
formity in the effects produced. Some of the animals appeared
to like the passes, others disliked them; some were soothed
and calmed, others irritated and excited; some were rcn.lered
playful, others alarmed. Nor is there less discrepancy in the
results of different performances of the same kind of experi-
ment by the same operator upon the same animal. On two
out of four attempts, some of the fish appeared to a certain ex-
tent affected; but it is to be remarked that the fish which fol-
lowed the finger of the mesmeriser had been gently stroked
along the back, and seems to have followed the movement of
th.e fi~ger as if for the purpose of keeping its body in contact
"':Ith It, rather than or1 any other acc~unt. That gentle stroking
gtves an agreeable sensation to certam, if not to all, fish, has
long been practically known to the trout-tickler.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 117
The most curious effect of Dr. Wilson's mesmerising is that
on the puppy, twelve lwurs' old, which, during the passes,
opened its eyes and saw!
THEORIES OF THE ANIMAL 1\IAG!'i"ETISTS.
§ 458. These are all modifications of two principal specula-
tions, analogous to the two theories of light-the theory of
emanation, and that of undulatory ether. The broad principles
of both arc clearly stated in the works of the alchemists. Pom-
ponatius assert:> that, by the force of his will, a man may give
out an emanation from himself, and so uirect it as to affect his
fellow men, and even the very elements. He considers that
this magnetic force proceeds from the action of the mind upon
the bloou anu the spirits. Van Helmont is equally explicit in
his description of what he termed the "magnale magnum," an
ethereal fluid pervading all sp:1ce, and permeating all bodies;
capable, when set in motion by the will, of acting with great
energy and at great distances. He seems to refer physical
attraction to the occult influence of this magnetic agency, and
believes that the power of setting the magnetic medium in ac-
tion may be communicateu by man to inanimate bodies.
§ 459. Mesmer adopted the latter of these theories, with
such slight variation as served to invest his uoctrines with the
appearance of originality. He at first considered the universal
fluid to be electricity, but afterwards renounced that opinion.
In the following twenty-seven propositions, he has left us a
condensed summary of his extravagant and visionary doctrines.
(Dated 1779.)
1. There exists a natural influence between celestial bodies,
the earth, and living beings.
2. A fluid universally diffused and filling every void, rare
beyond all comparison, and in its nature fitted to receive, pro-
pagate, and communicate all the impulsions of motion, is the
medium of thal influence.
3. This r~ciprocal action is obedient to certain mechanical
laws at present unknown.
4. There results from this action certain alternate effects,
which may be considered as a flux and reflux.
5. This flux and reflux are more or less general, more or less
particukr, more or less compourd, according to the nature of
the cau es which determine them.
6. It is by this operation (the most universal that we see in
nature) that the celestial bodies, the earth and their constituent
parts, mutually affect each other.
7. The properties of matter and of organized bodies depend
upon this operation.
8. The animal body experiences the alternative effects of
118 HISTORY OF MESMERISM,
this aaent, and it is by insinuating itself into the substance of
the n;rves that it immediately afii~cts them.
a. There are manifested, particularly in the human body,
certain properties analagous to those of the magnet; there ~ay
be distinguished c01·tam poles equally dttferent and oppostte,
which may be connected together, changed, destroyed, andre-
enforced. The phenomenon of inclination is to be observed.
10. The property of the animal body which renders it sus-
ceptible of the influer:ce of celestial. bodies_, .and of a.reciprocal
action with those whtch surround tt, mam!ested by tts analogy
vvith the magnet, was the reason for naming it Animal Mag-
netism.
11. The action and the virtue of animal magnetism thus cha-
racterized, may be communicated to other animate and inani-
mate bodies ; the one and the other, however, being more or
less su.>ceptible.
12. This action and this virtue can be re-enforced and propa-
gated by the same body.
13. We observe, by experience, the efrlux of a matter, of
which the subtilty penetrates all bodies, apparently without
loss of its activity.
1L
1. Its action extends to a great distance, without assistance
from any intermediate object.
15. It is augmented and reflected by mirrors, like light.
16. It is communicated, propagated, and augmented, by
sound.
17. This magnetic virtue can be accumulated, concentrated,
and transported.
18. Animated bodies are not equally susceptible ; and there
are some, though rare, which have a property so opposite that
their presence destroys all the effects of magnetism in other
bodies.
Hl. This opposite virtue likewise penetrates all bodie~; it
can equally be communicated, propagated, accumulated, con-
centrated, transported; reflected by mirrors and propagated by
sound: This constitutes not merely a negative, but a positive
and opposite power.
20. The magnet, whether natural or artificial, is likewise,
with other bodies, susceptible of animal magnetism, 2.nd also
of the opposite power, without, in either case, undergoing any
alteration in its action lJpon iron or the needle, which proves
that the principle of animal is essentially different from that
of mineral magnetism.
21. This system will furnish new elucidations of the n:tture
of fire and of light, of the theory of attraction, of the flux and
reflux of t~e magn~t and of electricity.
.22. It wtll explam that the magnet and electricty only have,
With respect to dtseases, properties common to many other agents
HISTORY OF MESMERISM, 119
in nature, and if some u:oeful effects have resulted from their
employment, these are due to animal magnetism.
23. We see from facts that this principle, employed according
to certain established practical rules, can cure diseases of the
nerves immediately, and others mediately.
21. With its aid the physician is enlightened as to the use
of remedies; he assists their action, and excites and directs
salutary cri es, so as to render them under his command.
25. In communicating my method, I will shew, by a new
theory of diseases, the universal utility of the principle which
I oppose to them.
20. With this knowledge, the physician will judge with
certainty as to the origin, the nature, and the progress of dis-
eases, even the most complicated; he will prevent their increase,
and arrive at a cure without ever exposing the patient to dan-
gerous or disagreeable consequences, such as occur from age,
lem1,erament, and sex. Females, even during pregnancy and
childbirth, possess tbe same advantage.
27. Fin;J.lly, this doctri:1e places the physician in a state to
judge correctly of the degree of health of each individual, and
to preserve him from the uiseases to which he may be exposed;
the art of healing will thus arrive at its utmost pArfection.*
§ 4GO. The German animal magnetists, who agree in the
existence of the universal medium, differ as to the relative im-
porl:mce of the earth and celestial bodies in regulating its
operations. Whilst others, retaining the theory of influence,
consider that the magnetic force is in reality the nervous energy,
or fluid, thrown off frc,m its original possessor in obedience to
certain acts of volition alone, or of volition and muscular action
combined; transmitted Lhrough space, and taken in by, and
producing especial effects upon, any animated being duly pre-
pared for its reception.
§ 4Gl. Others, again, revivifying the old doctrine of the
great soul of nature,t admit the ethereal agent as not only the
"'Historic Academiqufl, p. 15.
t "The Anima Mundi is the fountain or seat of all second causes, being
a• it were the eye of God, or medium between God and all created things."
-[Sibly's Key to the Oceult Scienr.es.
"Now seeing that the soul is the essential form, intelligible and incor-
ruptible, anti is the first mover of the body, and is moved of itself, but
that the body, or matter, is of itself unable and unfit for motion, and does
very much degenerate from the soul, it appears that there is need of a
more excellent medium. Now such a medium is conceived to be the
spirit of the world, or that which some call a quintessence, because it is
not from the four elements, but a certain first thing, having its being
above and beside them. There is, therefore, such a kind of medium re-
quired to bP. by which celestial souls may be join'(d to gross bodies, and
bestow upon them wonderful gifts. This spirit is, m the same manner, in
the body of the world, as our spirit is in our bodies ; for as the powers of
our soul are communicated to the members of the body by the medium of
120 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
medium of conveying magnetic motion, but ~onsider that it
constitutes, when in the living body, the medmm of ~onnec­
tion between soul and body; the agency through whtch the
former acts upon the latter, and upon external objects.
§ 4t:i2. In accordance with this view, clairvoyance is ex-
plained by supposing the patien~ to have ~n excess of mag~etic
fluid, "whose subtilty, traversmg the s1des of the cramum,
irradiates the surrounding objects, and occasions the wonderful
phenomena of lucidity...... On awakening, the somnam-
bulist remembers nothing, because every thing has taken place
out of his brain, since we have seen that the fluid goes in
search of the objects."*
§ 463. Exaltation of intellect and intuition, during magnetic
sleepwaking, are referred to the greater elevation and perspi-
cacity of the soul when divested of the body, which is" rather
an hindrance to it." . . . . . . "When the soul is separated
from the body, it is wherever it thinks to be; for as space is
only its mode of thinking, but does not exist except in idea, it
is always at the place which it represents to itself, if it may be
there."-Jung- Stilling.
§ 46!. Prevision too. "Time being also, in fact, a mere mode
of thinking, and not existing in reality, the departed soul may
be susceptible of future things."t
§ 465. The usual, almost universal, mode of framing a mes-
meric theory, appears to have been to imagine some favourite
explanation, or rather, supposed explanation, and then very
philosophically to test th1s by experiment. Experiments
never fail to substantiate the previous conception. How can
they, when the will of the theorist is the main spring of the
of the spirit; so also the virtue of the soul of the world is dill'used, through·
out all things, by the medium of the universal spirit; for there is nothing
to be found in the whole world that hath not a spark of the virtue thereof.
Now this spirit is received into things more or less, by the rays of the stars,
so far as things are disposed, or made lit recipients <>f it. By this spirit,
therefore, every occult property is conveyed into herbs, stones, metals,
and animals, through the sun, moon, planets, and through stars higher
than the plnnets."-[The Magus, or Celestiallntelligencer.
.. Colquhoun, in Isis Revelata.
t Jung-3tilling. quoted in ibid. This style of explanation of a puzzling
subject is rather ancient. The following is a ~pecimen from an<>ther
source :-" The poison of the plague is subdued by the poison of the toad,
not by an action primarily destructive, but by a secondary action; as
the l?es.tilent idea.of hatred or terror extinguishes the ferment, by whose
me~1ahon the. po1son of the plague subsists, and proceeds to infect: f<>r
see10g the p01s.on of t.he plague is the product of the image of the terrified
arche~s established m a ferm~ntal, putrilied odour and mumial air, this
couph!'g fc.rments the appropnate mean, and immdediately the subject of
the po1son IS t'lken away. Therefore the <>pposition of the toad takes away
and prevents the baneful and most horrible effects of the pestilential poi·
son and ferment of the plague."-[The Magus, or Celestial Intelligencer.
Very clear and satisfactory!
HISTORY OF MES:l1ERISM. 121
phenomena he elicits, both according to mesmerism, and, ac-
cording to common sense, if it be not paradoxical to refer any-
thins at the sall)e time to principles so opposite ? Having
obtamed the facts, mere induction is alone required to estab-
lish the inference. We have thus rationales and so-styled theo-
ries a numerous as the mesmeric " facts" upon which they
are based, quite as contradictory, and almost as absurd.
§46G. For example, one correspondent of the "Phreno-
Magnet" believes that the mesmeriser abstracts ji·om, instead
of adding to, the normal amount of magnetic fluid possessed
by his patient (§ 1N.) It is superfluous to remark that his
experiments prove the correctness of U1is view. Another is of
opinion tl1at we are forced by the facts ofmesmero-phrenology
to adopt one of these three suppositions-" That the cerebral
organs are on the outside of the skull, or that there is a nervous
connexion between the outside of the head and the correspond-
ing part within, directly through the skull, or that there is a
subtle fluid diffused through the whole substance of the ence-
phalon, subject to laws similar to those of other fluids."
§ 467. Mr. Townshend enters very fully into the question of
the mesmeric medium, and, unlike the majority, condescends
to argue according to the rules of ordinary reasoning. His work
is remarkable for the correctness of the general principles of
philosophy laid down, and for the attempt -the only one-to
account for mesmeric phenomena in accordance w1th them.*
His inferences, from his own experiments, may be condensed
into the following aphorisms:-
1. There exists throughout nature a pervading medium,
elastic and vibratory, which may or may not be, under different
modifications, the source of the phenomena of the imponderable
agents generally, and possibly is, in reality, electricity.
2. This ether permeates the brain in common with all other
matter.
3. Every thought mo~·es the brain in its own appropriate
manner, or, to suit the phrenologist, every thought proceeds
from a certain special movement of cerebral matter.
4. This mental motion gives an impulse to t{te mesmeric
ether wit:t".n the brain, which is communicated to the mesmeric
ether external to the body of the person originating it.
5. Mesmerised persons, having their susceptibility extreJ?cly
exalted, are cognisant of the motions of this mesmeric mediUm,
though in their ordinary state, they would not be affected by
them.
G. Every thought having its special cerebral move_ment, the
motions created by the thoughts of other persons bemg trans-
• The only attempt by a mesmerist. Mr. Catlow does not come under
that head.
122 HISTORY OF :MESMERISM:.
ferred through the brain an_d through the mesm~ric _medi~~ to
the sensorium of a mesmensed person, are to lum mtelltg1ble
signs of thought; a language which! t?ough_ new to ~im at
first, he, by a gradual process of assoctat10n, g1ves meanmg to
and learns to comprehend.
7. The nervous agency, or medium of sensation and motion,
is identical with this mesmeric medium.
8. Sensation i~ fundamentally ani nternal process of them ind,
to the production of which the organs of the senses are not
essential; similar ultimate motions of the nerves, however pro-
duced, being alone requisite to excite similar sensations.
9. The miud can obtain information in two ways,-passivcly,
as when it receives notice of what is going on through the sense$
in the ordinary way ; actively where it takes notice through
any of the nerves i:n the mesmeric way. In the latter case
"the common process of sensation seems reversed; for the
nerve appe3.rs t0 conduct the sentient power to the superficies,
where it takes, as it were, the information it seeks, instead
of, as usual, conducting the impulsion to the brain."
§ 468. In support of these opinions, we find, amongst other
assertions, the following :-We gain no perception of form or
distance by the eye. We learn from it absolutely no more than
relates to light and cotour. The picture on the retina is not
essential to vision. Motion of the optic nerve is alone essential,
and there may still be that during the mesmeric slumber, when
a picture on the retina is impossible.
§ 469. Magendie's experiments, shewing that integrity of
the fifth nerve is essential to sight, hearing, and smell, tend
to prove that these several senses are not necessarily dependent
for their manifestation on their respective organs of sense.
§ 470. The conduction of sound " by another way than
through the external ear"-viz., through the mouth, when the
ears are stopped up-is a proof that correct information may
be conveyed to the mind otherwise than by the usual inlets of
sense.
§ 471. The two Okeys, during their mesmeric sleepwaking,
were able to attend to ·an that was passing on every side of
them, and yet experienced nothing from a galvanic shock,
which produced "a very severe effect on Sir William Moles-
worth and others," proving ( ~) that there was no conduction
towards the brain but only from it; or, "in other words, they
were able to use their nervous system actively, while incapable
of being influenced by it passively."
§ 472. Mr. Braid considers that all the phenomena of hypno-
tis~ are produced? i~respective of any e~t.ernal agency, by the
patient htmself wtllmg by an act of volltwn to fix his "men-
tal and visual eye'' according to certain rules laid uown. That
the somnolency thus induced differs altogether from natural
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 123
sleep. That much of the excitement, and many of the phe-
nomena developed, are "attributable to the altered state of the
circulation in the brain and spinal cord, and especially to the
greater determination of blood to them, and all other parts not
compressed by rigiJ muscles, arising from the difficulty, du-
ring the cataleptiform state, of the blood being propelled, in
due proportion, through the rigid extremities." He conjectures
th1t the to:1ic contractility of muscle depends on the ganglio-
nic sy. tern, which is also inordinately stimulated under the
hypnotic state, irs force becoming "predominant, instead of
bein.s as in the ordinary conditioa, only subordinate."
§ 47:3. Mr. Catlow contends thn.t the somnolency from mes-
meric or hypnotic operatio:1s, of what kind soever, is only
commrm sleep, modified by the circumstances under which it
is artificially induced. All his experiments, he states, " tend
to shew that all that is necessary to induce sleep is the com-
plete isolation of the attention; and that this is a voluntary act,
though diff~rent individual,; are, in various degrees, disposed
to it, variously able to accomplish it, and some, nay all, in some
circumstances, entirely unable to avoid it." To produce the
mesmeric sleep, there nee,ls no sensation at all, but simply the
concentration of the mind. "The result i,; not necessarily de-
pendent upon the imagination, but on the isolation of mind upon
a single idea; and this is the element of every experiment, how-
ever vari-ed."
§ 474. Mr. Catlow finds that during spontaneous natural
sleep, as well as during that artificially induced, the mind
may be caused to act in correspondence with certain sugges-
tions, without awaking the person- in other words, whilst
the person is still unconscious of what is passing around
him; that, after having associated a certain impression with
a certain mental act, the act will afterwards follow when-
ever the impression is repeated. "Touch the conventional
locality of one of the cerebral organs, or any other part of the
head or body, and whisper a suggestion of the dream or ac-
tion that is to be excited. Having thus excited one dream
or action, excite others in succession, continuing, while w~is­
pering, to t(mch th~ part selected for. e.ach asso~iation. The
patient may thus, With more or less fac1ltty, varymg from the
instclntaneous influence of a single word to the necessity of re-
peated gentle persuasion, be made to kneel down, repeat the
Lord's prayer, or any other known or suggested form of words,
shake hands, fight, or do anything that is congenial to his
habits and feelings in the waking state, and to his actual posi-
tion and susceptibility while asleep.
§ 475. On this principle, all the W<?nders ~f phreno -m~g­
netism are accounted for. By suggestmg, dunng the wakmg
condition, by means of writing on the phrenological bust
124 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
which the patient studied, Mr. Catlow mesmerically pr.oved
that the organ of alimentiveness consisted of five subordmate
organs-viz., eating, drinking, smoking, snuffing, and chewing.
GENERAL REMARKS,
§ 476. The first duty of one who attempts to review a sub-
ject put forth as scientific, is, to examine it as a whole ; to
ascertain the genuineness of its facts ; to estimate their value ;
and to consider whether the conclusions arrived at are clearly
and justly deducible from the premises laid down.
§ 477. Amongst the general remarks which the mesmerists
unsparingly scatter in support of their doctrines, a few only
requ.ire notice. Sceptics in mesmerism are accused of not
yielding to evidence. There is evidence in plenty; but of
what kind? If the facts were devoid of all that could excite
suspicion and maintain doubt, presented so frequently as to be-
come familiar, invested with the uniformity of nature's facts,
and, like these, in perfect unison with each other, we should
no longer consider them incredible, or hard to be understood.
Reason finds no difficulty in admitting what it is satisfied can-
not justly be called in question. Let us have facts that cannot
by possibility be spurious, that cannot be referred to the action
of any previously known influence, or, if they can, requiring a
new mode of action of that influence, and, whatever their
strangeness, we are bound to believe them, and must either
admit the existence of a new agent, or grant additional power
to an old one.
§ 478. The most superficial observer cannot fail to be struck
with the harmony of nat11re, and the uniformity of its actions.
When a new discovery not merely fails to accord, but abso-
lutely clashes, with old and established facts, there is a strong
presumption of an error in observation. That presumption
amounts to certainty, if, on every successive trial, a different
result is obtained. Facts cannot contradict facts. No new fact
is ever found to oppose an old one, and the complete agree-
ment of every real discovery with all that was fully established
before, is a characteristic of truth as indisputable, and evidence
of design as striking, as the exact adaptation of means to ends.
!he perfert and u?deviating uniformity of nature's operations
1s the sole founrlat10n of all knowledge. But for this, analogy
could be no guide, experience yield no instruction, and reason-
i?g. en~ only in·dou~t and uncertainty. To ensure perfect
st~tlanty of all the ctrcumstances in any case, we must neces-
s~r~ly posses~ ~ thor~ugh knowledge of them. The impossi-
bility of obtammg th1s complete acquaintance with all the cir-
cumstances which may modify.the actions of a living being, is
the great source of the uncertam and inexact conclusions with
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 125
~vhich physiologists are obliged, on many points, to rest satis-
fied. But this uncertainty has its limits : water seldorr. kills;
prussic acid seldom fails to do so, whatever the constitution.
§ 479. Most of the mesmeric facts not only do not accord
with, but they directly contravene, other and well-proved facts.
If they be true, our previously gained knowledge must be false.
Hence they have none of the characteristic harmony. Mes-
meric experiments, performed under circumstances so similar,
that if the effects were the result of a physical agent :~cting, as
it must, according to fixed and immutable laws, they could not
materially differ, are found to lead to any and every imaginable
result. We do not find that heat, light, or electricity, cceteris
paribus, will excite convulsions at one time; produce deep
sleep, with insensibility, at another; with inse·nsibility of some,
and greatly heightened sensibility of other parts, at a third;
with transposition of a function from its appropriate organ, to
another totally diff-erent, at a fourth. Mesmeric facts have no
uniformity.
§ 480. Nature does not withhold her facts until man wants
them to support some favourite theory. In the hands of Mes-
mer, the mesmeric influence produces excitement and convul-
sions; in those of Puysegur, sleep and somnambulism. Touch-
ing the head during th~s somnambulism elicits no cerebral
manifestation (vide note to § 41) until the science of phreno-
magnetism is discovered ; when lo ! nature, improved by edu-
cation, with more than her usual bounty rewards every fresh
inquirer by disclosing a new cerebral organ.
§ 481. It is constantly asserted, on the discovery of impos-
ture, or the occurrence of failure in a mesmeric experiment,
that a thousand negative instances can detract nothing from the
force of a single positive one. But are these cases of failure
mere negative facts? It is true that they afford nothing to sub-
stantiate the views of the mesmerists, but in proving that the
marvels of mesmerism may be feigned, and that in the majority
of cases, when minutely and cautiouslJ: investiga~e?, they have
been found to be so, they are sufficiently positive. What
should we think of a professor of legerdemain, who, on every
expression of doubt of his deceptions being in reality what
they appeared, indignantly exclaimed against being charged
with imposture again, and declared that all the tricks we could
see through were but negative facts, and therefore ought not
to diminish in the slightest degree our faith in the genuineness
of those that were yet beyond our penetration!
§ 482. Again, a circumstance may be true to a certain ex-
tent, and, in so far, bonafide a fact, and yet not to a sufficient
extent to support the conclusions desired. Thus, a clairvoy-
ant may reply to her mesmeriser alone, and pay no attention to
bystanders. This proves that she can hear the one, but is no
126 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
proof of her deafness to the others. She may betray no sign ~f
hearing when a pistol is discharged close to her ear; but th1s
does not prove that she cannot hear. That she appears to be
deaf is a fact which no one can deny; that she really does not
hear is only an inference, justifiable or not, according to cir-
cumstances. By the mesmerists, the facts and their own in·
ferences are perpetually confounded. The sceptic who dis-
putes the inference is accused of denying the fact; and as that,
as far as it goes, is sometimes evident enough, his disbelief is
unjustly deemed unreasonable.
§ 483. We are told th'it we cannot set limits to the possible;
that we have no right to disbelieve only because we cannot
understand; and hence that the presumed impossibility of
many of the alleged mesmeric facts, and the unintelligibility
of more, are no reasons for doubting their genuineness. If we
are to use the word impossibility at all, it must have a definite
and limited meaning, and its conventional signification is simply
to express the highest degree of improbability. It is not lite-
rally impossible that a stone should spontaneously ascend
through the air and vanish in the sky, but a~ it never does so,
and as its doing so would be contrary to all experience, and to
the laws of gravity as exemplified in a th<msand other instances,
it is usual and quite convenient to designate such an occur-
rence an impossibility. And as to tne intelligibility of things,
explanation in reality is nothing more than a reference of the
particular fact in question, to others more familiar from their
commonness, and a pointing out of their mutual resemblance;
in other words, the referring of individual instances to general
laws. But how much after all explanation, do we actually
comprehend? Facts, great, minute, numerous, and well-ar-
ranged, mutually supporting each other, and leading us, from
analogy, to anticipate and seek for more, to conjecture what
these may be, to ascertain what they are-facts are the sum
and substance of all knowledge. For a fact to be unintelligible,
therefore, is for a fact so to differ from all others with which
we are acquainted as to be incapable of being classed with any
of them. But let such facts be repeated until they become
familiar, and let analogous facts, also, be constantly presented,
and Vie cease to deem them incomprehensible; we trace out
some general point in which they alL agree, which is never
abo;ent; and by expressing this general fact, we gain a new
law of nature. Thenceforth, to refer any of the series to this
law is the explanation of it; but what, in truth, have we
le~rned? Not really to understand anything more of the secret
of the production of what at first so much excited our curiosity,
but more of the facts themselves and of all their attendant cir-
cumstances. Theorists may blunder, observers may wistake,
but facts cannot err. And it is and must be on the facts, and
HISTORY 01<' MESMERISM. 127
not on their presumed e:xplanation, however ridiculous that
may be, that the disbeliever refuses his credence to mesmerism.
§ 484. Still we cannot agree that "the strangeness and abso-
lute novelty of facts, attested by more than one mind, is rather
a presumption of their lP1th than the contrary, as there ·would
be something more familiar in any devices or conceptions of
men."* On the contrary, it is a humiliating truth that the
majority will accept on testimony. and themselves attest, what
they would hesitate to credit on observation, ar.d believe at
secondhand, marvels, in direct proportion as these oppose rea-
son and outrage common sense. Every page in the annals of
superstition exemplifies it; every successful imposture on a
grand scale pruves it; and that the proneness to easy faith in
the strange and the new ia not extinct in !he present day, let
homreopathy, the colu-water cure, galvanic rings, the Estaticas,
Addoloratas, and Mary Jobsons, declare. "When any means lead
to are. ult which we did not anticipate, not only is 011r aston-
ishment great in proportion to the confidence with which a
difierent result was expected, b.ut the credulous person is apt
to admit easily in proportion to the extent of his astonishment.
§ 433. Common opinion is an earnest of truth nnly when the
subject is of such general agreement is one which., in its nature,
is open to very general obsern-tion.
§ 4 G. To disbelieve the statements of the mesmerists is, we
are tolcl, to suppose .u a host of moral impossibilitie&, rather
than admit a plain new fact." As if to question the accuracy
of observation and soundness of jl'ldgmeut vvere the same thing
as to impugn the veracity of a witness! But, under any view.,
wherein iies the moral impossibility? A1·tfulness and decep-
tion on the one hand, and credulity on the other, are not so rare
that their co-existence in any given 'instance must be deemed a
moral impossibility.
§ 4 7. "TbP far-fetched calumnies al'ld offensi·ve assump-
tions with which it is the regular practice of a large number
of the faculty to assail every case of cure or relief by mesmer-
ism, looked very much as if they were in conflict with powerful
truth, and as if they knew it." The authwess of" How to
Observe Men and J\[anners" does the faculty too much honour
in assuming that a lare;e number of its members have ever at-
tempted to conflict with their cures; and to the few who form
exceptions, the somewhat strong expressions above do not
apply, and, perhaps, are merely intended as literary flourishes.
Knowing the true value of cases published in a popular form,
seeing no greater reason for implicitly believing one than ano~
ther of the numberless vaunted infallible modes of cure, and
convinced that to credit all wouJd be tantamount to believing
"'Miss Martineau's first letter.
128 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
statements diametrically opposite, medical men incredulously
require more than mere a~scrtion. Not con~ent with the ex-
pressed conviction of t~is or t~1at non-profess1?nal, they choose
rather to incur the cuttmg satue of the hyge1sts and the mcs·
merists, than to forfeit all claim to be considered a reasoning
profession. Equally absurd i:; the common taunt against medi-
cal mell, that their opposition to animal magnetism is selfish
and interested.* In the most degrading point of view, were
all true that the magnetists affirm, it would obviously be to the
advantage of the physician to adopt the practice, to exchange
doubt for certainty, anxiety for unconcern.
§ 488. It is argued, that we ought not to doubt assertions of
facts, however marvellous, made by persons so respectable and
so well-informed as are many who authenticate the wonders
of mesmerism, and that what so many believe can hardly be
devoid of truth. But the most egregious of all follies have been
the follies of the wise; and the most extreme of all fallacies
have been the most generally believed. So far from the alle·
giance of the many being a surety for truth, it is often easier
to deceive a multitude than a single shrewd observel· by him-
self. Each-trusting to the foresight and penEtration of those
around-depends less upon himself, and, sympathizing with
his fellows, usually manifests the feeling by which the rest are
actuated. Hence, with the mttltJLude, the contagious effect cf
mirth and sorrow, courage and fear; hence the power of elo-
/ quence to incite or restrain. For ages every one believed in
witchcraft: who believes in it now? Since modern chemistry
has proved the impossibility of ch:1nging any on.e of the ele-
mentary bodies into another, do we consider alchemy less a
delusion because formerly all acknowledged its truth? For
centuries not a philosopher but wasted his life in vain search
after the philosopher's stone: not a rich scoundrel who wished
to account for his ill-gotten wealth, but asserted that he had
discovered it; not a needy monarch or potentate, but when he
could, caught and imprisoned any alchemist of celebrity, witJ1
the intention of exacting from his power of transmutation an
enormous ransom. To witchcraft and alchemy might be
added many other doctrines, each in its turn believed as exten-
?ively, supported as respectably, and influencing the minds of
1ts followers as greatly, aa animal magnetism ; and each in its
turn exposed, proved fallacious, and consigned for a time to
oblivion. But if the respectability of its supporters ought not
to do more than attract attention to a subject, the non-adhe-
renc: of those best fi~ted and most likely to investigate carefully
and. .J_udge correctly 1s al.ways some argument against the pro-
bablhty of truth. Ammal magnetism has now been long
.. See Isis Revelata, passim.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 129
enough before the puhlic, has excited sufficient attention, to
have made converts amongst the most scientlfic and profound.
Yet, bearing as it does, according to its advocates, on physi-
ology, medicine, and physics, we look in vain, amongst its ad-
herents, for the best names in each of these branches of know-
ledge. Do we find Muller or Sharpev; Herschel, Wheatstone
or Faraday ; Chambers, ·watson, or L~tham? Thre cannot be
a more striking illustration of the occasional liability of a man
of talent to permit his m!nd to go astray, than the circumstance,
that the very men who will reJect a religious doctrine which
requ.ires only a reasonable faith, are often the most eager to
admtt, and the most zealous to support, a pseudo-scientific
theory on evidence which, if the subject were commonplace,
they would be the first to condemn. The one is generally
acknowledged-there would be no singularity in believing it;
the other is not proved-there is notoriety in defending it; it
is ridiculed-there is something of moral martyrdom in volun-
tarily sharing the same fate. A vain affectation of singularity,
and a morbid love of notoriety, are influenttal agents on the
conduct of their possessor, and will often make him cheat his
rea.'lon to adopt what ministers to them.
§ L
1'30. Since Galileo and Harvey met not only with contempt
and ridicule, but persecution, for divulging truths, if one now
introduce a doctrine only preposterous enough to excite ridi-
cule, he at once concludes that he, fonooth, must be a Galileo
or a Harvey! Alike contemned, he must have done something
equal in merit! If his lucubrations are despised, it is because
they are not yet understood, and because he, like the perse-
cuted philosophers of old, lives in advance of his generation!
§ 490. Evidence presented to our senses, it is said, cannot
readily be mistaken. But if our senses rarely deceive us, the
inferences we deduce from the impressions they convey are
often erroneous. It is possible that a favourite idea may so in-
fluence the mind that we are sometimes constrained to believe
that sensations arc made through the medium of the senses,
though none of the natural causes of such sensations are really
operating. How else can we account for much that is stated
to have been felt, seen, and heard, by authors whose veracity
may be as unimpeachable as certain of their statements are in-
credible?*
-------- -----------------------------------
• Thu~ . to give specim~>.ns, ancient and modern. Strabo informs us that
the inhabitants of Spain heard the hissing noise made by the sun as he
sank into the western waves. Mrs. Pratt heard a congenital deaf-mute
talk after Mrs. de Loutberbourg had looked. benignly upon her. The
h•arned author of the Ma$"us asserts that he has frequently killed toads by
merely •· gazing furiously at them for a quarter of an hour." A celebra·
ted phrenologist, and a man undoubtedly of strong mind, saw a little girl
whose brain at the organs of self-esteem and love of apvrobaiion was
I
130 HISTORY OF ::>1ESMERISM.
§ 491. It is a custom, more r~markable f~r its.vulgarity tha.n
its propriety, with those who \y1sh to establish v1ews that obvi-
ously stand in need of every kmd of support, to attempt to en-
list religious feelings in their favour. Th~y assert that. ~he
evidence of design in nature receives some Important add1t10n
from their discoveries, or that the wisdom of the Allwise is
clearly manifest in the arrangement they have disclosed, or dis-
co\·er that any other than their own belief is inconsistent with
divine beneficence. If there be anything more injurious to a
cause than its injudicious advocacy, it is to attempt to maintain
it by mere conjectures, and more than doubtful facts. Were it
possible to question the established truths, such superfluout:~
and futile attempts to sustain them would most conduce to the
doubt. A Jesuit, Father Bougeant, published a theory as being
necessary" for Gog's vindication and man's justification." This
important theory was simply a cutting of the Gordian knot as
to the intellectuality of brutes, by affirming that all b asts are
animated by evil spirits. " Do we love beasts for their own
sakes?" he asks. "No! As they are altogether strangers to
human society, they can have no other appointment but that of
being useful and amusing; and what care we whether it be a
devil or any other creature that amuses us? The thought of
it, far from shocking, pleases me mightily. I with gratitude
admire the goodness of the Creator who gave me so many little
devils to serve and amuse me. If I am told that these poor
devils are doomed to suffer eternal tortures, I admire God's de-
crees, but I have no manner of share in that dreadful sentence;
I leave the execution of it to the Sovereign Judge; and not-
withstanding this, I live with my little devils as I do with a
multitude of people, of whom religion informs me that a g~eat
number shall be d--d." This is an extreme instance, and it
is by no means supposed that anything recently written by the
mesmerists is so openly profane, but there is much of which
the tendency is certainly to lessen the seriousness of serious
subjects.
§ 492. We are told that we might as well deny Christianity
because there are so many different sects, as doubt the truth of
mesmerism because the believers of the doctrine do not all
covered only by integument : he placed his hand on the part. and lP.d the
conversation so as to pique the child's self-esteem, when motion was dis-
tinctly felt. "When she was requested to do some arithmetical lesson to
eet in action her intellect, the brain at self-esteem ceased to move. She
was P!aised for he.r success, when.the orga~ of love of approbation, hither-
to qutescent, senstbly moved; agam, the child's attention was directed to
something distinct fr:om herself, and once more the organs of self-esteem
and love of appro~atwn_ reposed." ~ne, for whose opinion I have the high-
est respect, mentioned m conversatiOn that he always very jealously sus-
pected experiments that proved things too nicely.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 131
agree as to what mesmerism consists of. There is this differ-
ence between the two: religious sects are agreed as to the.pre-
mises, but differ in the inferences they deduce; the mesmerists
contra~ict each other as to the premises, as well as disagree as
to the mferences. ·To render the cases parallel, mesmeric facts
should be considered established by common consent, the only
disagreement being as to their interpretation, which is really a
matter of very secondary importance.
§ 493. It is affirmed that the facts of the mesmerists are de-
nied merely on the assumption of personal imposture, which, in
the majority of cases, has never been proved. In the majority of
all cases of dextrous and successfu1 imposture, the deception is
never proved, but it would better express the truth to say that
the so-called facts of mesmerism are not received because of the
internal evidence of improbability which they carry, and be-
cause of the many attendant circumstances which would favour
deception. Nature never assumes the garb of Art; and if the
more marvellous facts really were what they appeared, it would
be surprising that all the conditions under which they are
generally presented are precisely those best adapted for allow-
ing and concealing imposture.
REMARKS ON THE THEORIES AND FACTS OF THE MESMERISTS,
§ 494. A theory is of little value unless it is founded on in-
duction from a considerable number of facts. Allowing the
correctness of all the mesmeric facts, how are they explained
by the mesmeric doctrines ? Granting the existence of the
universal fluid, or ether, or medium of some kind; granting
that this medium can be set in motion by the action of themes-
meriscr's brain or mind, (L
157,) what directs the movement thus
originated? If the soul of the sleepwaker be sent along this
medium,(§ .J.G3,) what conducts it to the exact spot, causes it
to sec the exact object required? The medium acts in straight
lines, like light, (§ 459,) but the sleepwaker sees in any and
every direction. His mind fetches the information it seeks,
(§ 462 ;) it must therefore leave the body and travel. What
remains behind to dictate the replies? The mesmeric somnam-
buli t has an instinctive knowledge of medicine, of time, and
of future events. All knowledge is the result either of reason-
ing or of divine revelation. There can be no reasoning where
there are no facts to reason upon. The somnambulisl, ignorant
of medicine, of the lapse of time, and of what has yet to hap-
pen, has no data, therefore he can gain no knowledge on these
points from reasoning. If he obtain knowledge at all, then, it
must be in a supernatural way. Hence a miracle is necessi-
tated in every case of successful and complete clairvoyance
Since the "miraculous case of Mary Jobson" bas occurred so
132 HISTORY OF :MESMERISM.
recentlv we cannot deny that it may be so, but the proof rests
with th~ assertors. Without movement, the mesmeric medium
could not convey intelligence, and how can a movement in the
medium be occasioned by what has yet to occur. ·when the
liberated soul of the sleepwaker flits across the Atlantic, and
passes through obstacles inn~merabl.e, what stops it in _its flight
to enable it to note the vanous obJects the mesmenser may
wish? (§ 370.) Does his soul likewise take a transatlantic
trip? What conveys back instantaneously to the sleepwaker's
body the information gained by the absent spirit wbiH still
pursuing its exploratory tour? Does the erratic mind itself
run to and fro along the mesmeric lines ? or has it a pow ,r of
multiplying itself ad infinitum? or has it ubiquity? or dues it
cause, as it were, a vibration at one end, and thus telt>zraph
the nev..-s to the other? If the medium fills all space, and pro-
ceeds to and from the sun, moon, and stars, how is it that
astronomy has derived no great accession to its facts from the
exercise of mesmeric clairvoyance? When a mesmerised letter
or object is sent to a distance, (§ 179,) why does the mesmeric
movement in the medium never prcducP. any effect until the
party addressed has recei?Jed th~ mandate to sleep, since the
mesmeriser must havP- already exercised his will, and therefore
have set the medium in motion? As the mind can travel mes-
merically with such extreme celerity, why does it sometimes
require days for it to discern the object desired? and, as it sees
most objects with such exactness, why is its vision of others
equally obvious, occasionally so indistinct and transitory? If
the mind has its capabilities so much augmented by its tempo-
rary freedom from its corporeal habitation, why docs it fre-
quently perceive correctly to a certain extent only ? If it po3-
sesses such extreme lucidity, how can it err at aU? These re-
marks appear highly absurd, but they 3re such as naturally flow
from the stated principles of mesmerism, and perhaps tbeir
absurdity is not disproportionate to that of their subject.
§ 495. The word "soul" is used by the mesmerists with
great freedom and laxity of signification. Do they wish to
account for the fact of a sleepwaker seeing what is going on a
hundred miles off,-he sees by means of his soul! Dor.s he
foresee what shall happen next year,-he predicts by means of
his soul! Having thus explained their incredibilia by rcfcr-
rin~ them all to the operation of the soul, they gravely exclaim
-Have we not here new proof of the distinct existence of the
immortal spirit? Granting, wh1.t has never been shown, that
if the soul co1.tlrl be temporarily set free from its bodily tene-
ment, that would clearly account for all the wonders of mes-
merism, is it probable, is it in accordance with anythin"' else
in the government of the universe, that any creature should
HISTORY OF MESMERISM', 133
possess the power to separate aud reunite at p1easure soul and
body?
§ 496. Mr. Colquhoun quotes with approbation M. Ch:ndel's
new theory of physics. According to this, the cause of life
and of motion is the same as that of light, heat, and elec-
tricity. There are two physical elements, the terrestrial and the
solar,-matter and motion. "Matter is that which constitutes
the consistence of bodies. The rays of the sun unite with
matter, and arc the sole and ever-active principle of motion.
It is they which constitute the life of beings; for life is th8
c..tuse of organic motion in vegetables and animals. The mo-
~ion of lig.ht ~s no~ t!1e ~·e~ult of an impulsion, bu.t ofthe motility
z,~hercnt m ttselj, for 1t 1s the elementary motwn, and all im-
pulsioi1S depend upon it more or less immediately. Let any
one examine the nature of the solar rays, and he will be con-
vinced that they are motion in themselves, and that heat is
nothing else than the agitation they produce in bodies. The
solar n .ys are the elementary motion. Light, heat, ma;;;ne-
tis:n, electricity, galvanism, electro-magnetism, &c., reiiult
f:·o:n the combination of the elementary motion with matter.
l\1 uscular contractility and excitability are phenomena of eb:>-
ticity produced by the vital element in animals, which form it
by in<lividualizing motion. It is always an internal power,
generated by the union of the solar rays with matter; for life
is nothing else than this; everywhere by combining they con-
fer upon compound bodies their appropriate action. This is
the secret of nature." And a very simple secret it would be,
coul,l WP only understand it. Motion is known to us only a:> a
condition of matter, and we cannot realize the idea of motion in
the abstraet, as a separate entity, unconnected with matter.
That th e solar rays possess motion is evident; that they may eause
nv}tion in matter is certain; but that they are" motion in them-
selves'' is-or seems to be-nonsense. Granting that light,
heat, electricity, galvanism, and magnetism, may be different
modes of action of the same agent i. e., different kinds of mo-
tion, of either common matter, or of the more refined ether
which philosophers have assumed to exist; still there is no
sound argument in favour of this physical agent being identical
with the vital principle. Analogy, as regards subtilty of cause,
extent of operation, and importance of effect, there may be, but
identity has not been rendered in the slightest degree probable.
And why limit the resources of Providence by attempting to
redu ce all the phenomena of nature to the action of a single
second cause-" the one grand agent," thus making them to
square with that ideal simplieity and oneness which constitute
at present the standard of perfection? Could we prove the ex-
istence of this " grand agent," should we be at all nearer a dis-
closure of the secret mode of nature's operations? Could we
13-l HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
understand how this one agent was itself endued primarily with
motion, so as secondarily to excite the action of matter in it~:~
varied forms, any more than we now comprehend how matt r
itself is endowed with its several properties, physical and vital?
Strugale as we may to escape it, we must believe something
that -,~e cannot understand, to start with ; a mind without
rational faith will have irrational faith. Without belief of any
kind, the mind would be a lever without a fulcrum.
§ 407. Chardel's mode of reasoning, supported though it i.s
by a quotation from the "Novum Organon," is a relapse iuto
the style which that work did so much to destroy. Mr. Col jU·
houn makes no application of the theory, to which he se ·ms
completely to assent, but its bearing on :mimal magnetism is
evident. If there be but one universal agent for life, sen], mit cl,
electricity, galvanism, magnetism, and heat, then any rnecJc
of calling one t,f these into action might affect any cr all <if tl.e
others. As we know that the processes of the mesmeriser mm;t
aflect the electricity and the heat of both operator and pati uf,*
and therefore must act upon one common agent, they mi~Lt
reasonably be supposed to possess some po\\'cr over otlltr mu1 i-
festations of this agent-soul and mind and life. Mesmerism
may fairly be allowed all the support it can gain from au hy-
pothesis so rom:mtic and visionary. Until the dependence c,i'
dl the powerful agencies of nature upon a single ccmmcn
cause is clearly established, it remains an objection to the" uni-
versal" theory, that all the arguments, or rather assert ions u cd,
will apply equally well to any of them: thus, light, heat, e](;c-
tricity, and magnetism, have already had their day. Voltaire
did not think it impussible "that the elementary fire may be a
being apart which animates nature, and possesses the interme-
diate step between the body and some other being we are un-
acquainted with."t
§ 498. Taking them just as they are presented, the facts of
mesmerism will not support the theory, nor will !he theory
elucidate the facts. What are the facts?
§ 409. Mere assertions, the facts on which they are founded
being withheld, can be admiLted only in so far as they are pt·o-
bable, and can never serve as grounds for belief in what is ex-
tremely improbable. Still less can much importance be attached
to assertions to which other assertions are opposed by the advo-
cates of the same general doctrines: they nullify each other.
Nor are isolated facts mucl~ more valuable as the basis of a law
""A aeries of accurate experiments on the extent to which the electricilv
of the body is effected by me~meric procedure would give us needful iii-
formation. The experiments hitherto made can hardly be deemed sufil
cient. (~ 173, 174, 17n.)
t Isis Revelata, vol. ii. p. 352.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 136
of nature; but they are often peculiarly so in overturning a
false hypothesis, since a single irreconcilable fact will suffice
to invalidate any presumed general principle.
§ 500. Although the gross inconsistencies of the facts stated
by the different authors lo have been actually observed by them
require mere perusal for their detection, and although the
greater number of the facts themselves, like all the works in
support of mesmerism which I have happened to meet with,
carry their own refutation with them, still it may be desirable
to direct attention to a few of the most striking peculiarities in
the evidence.
§ 501. From the meagre statistical facts supplied, we find
that somnambulism occurred in fifty-three out of a hundred and
forty-six-i.e., in about one-third. Hence, there shonld be
no difficulty in furnishing us with abundance of examples of
real mesmeric sleepwaking and its attendant phenomena. Yet
itinerant mesmerisers do not find it easy, and personal experi-
ence teaches others who make the attempt with sufficient cau-
tion that they are not of the privileged. (§ 135.)
§ 502. To render a person susceptible of the mesmeric
influence, he must possess d." certain degree of intelligence,"
(§ 136 ;) yet to arrive at the maximum of mesmeric lucidity,
experience has proved that we should select "the most igno-
rant and common individuals,"(§ 142.) The strong, the reso-
lute, and healthy, are as easily mesmerised as the sick and
feeble-minded,(§ 137 ;) yet the most eligible men are those who
most resemble women in the weakness and delicacy of their
organization, (§ 139.) Even the slightest illness lessens sus-
ceptibility,(§ 137 ;) yet sick persons are the most susceptible,
(§ 138.) Males are as susceptible as females, (§ 137;) yet women
are incomparably more susceptible than men, (§ 139.) Such
are the recorded facts by which we are to be guided in se-
lecting patients for the :otudy of mesmerism !
§ 503. The mesmeriser must possess a superior state of health,
muscular or mental power over his patient, (§ 144 ;) yet a small
weak girl mesmerises a jumping woman,(§ 145.) What a su-
pJrabundance of the requisites must he possess who can impart
enough to a tree to mesmerise hundreds!
§ 504. The will of the mesmeriser is everything, (§ 146,
148;) the will of the mesmeriser is nothing,(§ 158.)
§ 505. ·with respect to the mode of mesmerising, the greater
the muscular action of the operator, the greater the effect,
(§ 176 ;) yet the movements should be easy and gentle, (§ 177.)*
A mesmerised elm had great power without making any mus-
• 11 N'employez aucune force musculaire pour diriger !'action du mag-
netisme. Mettez dans vos mouvemens de l'aisance et de Ia souplesse."-
[Histoire Critiq., tom. i. p. 107• .-
136 HISTO"RY OF MESMERISM.
cular effort, (§ 66.) The kind of passes is important,(§ 179 ;)
yet any process will succeed if the patient only thinks it will,
(§ 160, 178.) To mesmerise, breathe upon the patient,(§ 170,
187 ;) to demesmerise, do the same (§ 213, 215 ;) to. excite a
dormant organ, breathe over it, (§ lSG, 21G ;) to quiel it, do the
samP-, (§ 214.) Laughing gas will mesmerise; a larger dose
will remove this effect,(§ 17:.?.) Spitting on a bit of paper in·
vests it with great mesmeric power, (§ 1G 1;) M. Chenevix
found the paper by itself sufficient,(§ 121.) Touching and
pointing, or darting the fingers at a part, v.rill m.esmerise, (§ 182,
193,) and demesmerise, (§ 200, 214.) Glovt>s Impede themes-
meric influence, (§ 18G ;) stone walls do nol, (§ 1fl J.) l\1csmeric
power lessens with distance, (§ 18G ;) Mr. To·Nnshencl mu t
have been highly charged with it when he mesmerised Anna
--a quarter of a mile off, (§ 147.) The fluid will not piss
through silk, (§ 77 ;) yet a silk handkerchief offers no i mpedi-
ment, (§ 189.) Glass does obstruct the passage of the fluid
(§ 147, 459,) and it does not,(§ 185.) The electrical stale of
the patient h:J.s great influence over the production of mes-
meric phenomena, when either patient or operator has a pen-
chant for the electrical theory, (§ 174 ;) no influence if either
objects to this view,(§ 173.) Waving a handkerchief in a cer-
tain direction will mesmerise; in another, will demesmerisc,
(§ 192.) The greater the number of persons through whom the
mesmeric influence passes, the greater its force, (§ 176 ;) so
that if a mesmerist, in a large assembly, thought proper to
affect a number in succession, what a tremendous amount the
last recipient would have to sustain! Or, if the occult power
does not require the exercise of the will, what a potent reser-
voir of mesmerised water mu~;t a large public bath become
towards the close of a July day! One, who believed in the power
of the will, mesmerised Thomas Russen "by will merely,"
(§ 159 ;) Thomas had previously been a patient of Dr. Elliot-
son, who, denying the influence of the will, never produced
any effect by his will alone. A piece of copper and a mineral
magnet produced peculiar mesmeric effects,(§ 1G2 ;) yet the
former removes all mesmeric power from mesmerisPd water,
and the latter all from the mesmeriser, (§ 170.) Handling or
breathing on a foreign body invtsts it with mesmeric power,
(§ 1G4,) and yet either process will occasionally prevent the
foreign body from producing any mesmeric effect, (§ 103.) A
piece of gold placed on the patient's hand produced no effect
when handl~d by the person who had mesmerised the patient,
but afte~ bemg handle1l by any o~her person it produced ex-
treme distress,(§ 167.) .Mesmense~ gold applied to the fore-
head, caused extreme pam and a bnght yellow flash of light·
but a mesmerised gold watch placed in the hand had no effect'
(§ 163, 166.) .llnyforeign body produces rigidity; gold, silver:
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 137
iron, zinc, copper, German silver, or any metal touched by
gold, ivory, or glass, produce effects which, for the most part,
gold, silver, o.nd nickel will remove,(§ 164, 16G.)
§ 50G. A 11 mesmerised patients will in time awaken of them-
selves,(§ 200 ;) yet "the mesmeric sleepwaker cannot awake
without the mesmeriscr's aid," (§ 199.) The mesmerised pa-
tir>nt is entirely in the power of his mesmeriser; he cannot of
hirns<'lfthrow off his bonds,(§ 199;) yet he can of his c"n
accord will to make for himself demesmerising passes, and
thus awaken at pleasure,(§ 201 ;) or without any passes he can
aw~kcn himself when he thinks proper,(§ 202.)
~ G07. ·would evidence such as this be deemed sufficient to
prc~V(' \he existence Of a special power possessed by different
bodies in any question of physics? Do we find the phenomena
of electr icity, or light, or heat, manifested alike under causes
entirely opposite and circumstances perfectly different, :md
manifested differently where the causes are similar and the cir-
cumstances agree? A charge of galvanism is not found to re-
mov(· in any person the effects which a previous charge bad
rroduced. A hot fire does not first warm and then cool us.
Were there really any such thing as the mesmeric power, it
woulrl be influenced in the same, or, at least, in a somewhat
similar way, by similar acts under similar conditions. The
"facts" prove that similar acts under similar conditions produce
resulls 11erfectly dissimilar. Hence, either there can be no
mesmeric medium of any kind, or else, assuming its existen-ce,
its laws of action are not merely totally unlike those of every
other known agent-ponderable and imponderable-but diamet-
rically OTJposed to them.
§ 508 The mesmeric sleepwaker knows nothing of the
cftccts produced by his mesmeriser, (§ 300 ;) yet he can some-
times relate afterwards all th<tt occurred during his seance,
(§ 273.) A little deeper, and he is lucid, and knows every
thin.,.; can answer questions to his mesmeriser, or to any one
else, (§ 328.) Some must gain this depth with great rapidity,
since the first intimation of their being even asleep is given by
their mentioning their own conviction that this is the cnse,
(§ 2Hl. ) On the other hand, such is human perversity, a few,
especially on the first trial, cannot be made to believe that they
hn vc been sent to sleep at all! (§ 230.) Even if they have not,
still they may have presented the mesmeric phenomenon of
vigilance, (§ 223.) In any less sublime science, this vigilance
wonld look very like a loop-hole of escape prepared against an
emerg-ency in argument. (Vide § 19, 45£1, for another loop-
hole.)
5 509. Some patients are attracted by their mesmeriser only,
(§ 230 ;) others, more complaisant, will follow any of the by-
standers,(§ 2·12.) Even a glance will suffice to attract a sus-
138 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
ceptible patient, (§ 244.) Strange~y enough, as the patient is
mesmerically deaf, words are occaswnally more potent tractors
even than passes, (§ 251.) Should the coma be so deep as to
prevent the patient from obeying any of these signs whilst his
eyes are closed, he (mesmerically blind all the while) first
looks, though he may not appear to see, (§ 3G2,) and then imi-
tates the gestures required, (§ 2-HJ.) If required to do anything
disagreeable or difficult, mesmeric lucidity takes affront, anu
the patient falls into a very deep sleep,(§ 3GO.)
§ 510. Mesmeric force is in proportion to the size of the
m;,smerising body, (§ 132, 145 ;) yet one finger will attract the
patient just as well as the whole of the mesmeriser's hand,
(§ 23Li.)
§ 511. Any sort of passes will cause muscular rigidity, and
the same sort continued will r.emove this again,(§ 277.)
§ 512. Mesmerism is reflected from mirrors like light,(§ 459 ;)
but, unlike the straight rays of light, it can bend round an in-
tervening body, without losing anything of its force,(§ 313.)
It required only a few seconds for this purpose in Dr. Wilson's
case, (§ 268.) Any agent which acts in straight lines, like
light and heat, has its power diminished with the square of the
distance from its source. Some authors seem to imply that
the mesmeric agent observes this law,(§ 186.) If it does not,
it has no analogy with light and heat, which do; if it does,
how can it act just as strongly at a distance of three miles as
when its source is nearer to its destined recipient?
§ 513. An interesting and zealous mesmerise, anxious to as-
certain for himself whether he could feel pain, when sleep-
waking, bit his own hand until blood came,<§ 289.) As he
felt nothing, and of course could gain no assistance from his
other senses fast locked in mesmeric sleep~ it is dif-ficult to
divine how he managed to guide his hand to his mouth.
· § 514. Mesmeric facts have little respect for anatomy. Thus,
when half onJ.y of the brain is mesmerised, the corresponding,
not, as in palsy, the opposite, half of the body is affected,
(§ 47.9.) In depriving parts of their sensibility, the nerves seem
to have very little share in the matter. The gums are in-
sensible, whilst the inside o the cheeks and lips are quite
sensible, notwithstanding the same nerve of sensation supplies
all, (§ 295.) A line of dem:~.rcation under the lower jaw cuts
through the ramifications of the sensory nerves, without the
slightest regard to their function, (§ 295.)
§ 515. The alleged effects of mesmerism on the senses are
reducible to .heightened sensation? diminished sensation, per-
verted sensat10n, transposed sensatron, and community of sen-
sation between patient and operator.
§ 516. We have illustrations of each of these wonderful
enough, if we take for granted the assumed uncdnsciousness
HISTORY OF 1\IESMERISM. 139
and insensibility of the mesmerised patient in evr:ry respect,
but with regard to the one sense operated on ; less marvellous,
if we suppose it posilible for the mesmerise to be alive to all
that is passing around. What proof of community of feeling
is there if the patient can see the injury done to his mesmeriser,
or, when blindfolded, if he has consciousness and can hedr, or
failing to hear, at least can suspect what is going on? Of com-
munity of smell, provided the patient himself can smeU as well
as his mesmeriser? Of communiny of hearing, if the patient
catl hear? Or of taste, if sight, smell, and hearing, or any of
these, are left to give information? The examples adduced by
the mesmerists are valueless, unless it can be proved that ia
every instance the patient was unconscious, and unable, there-
fore, to derive knowled~e from his senses in the ordinary way.
Dr. Fahnestock was perhaps not incorrect when he stated that
mesmeric pa;:ients could smell or not, just as they pleased; anl
the remark might be applied to all the other senses.
§ 517. The effects on the senses have usually been der--med
the criteria of the existenc~ of real mesmeric somnambulism;
but declining a test that would make success the only measure
of the influence, it will be preferable to take for granted that
every patient was in the state assumed by the mesmeriser. If
it be argued that, although truly sleepwaking, a patient might
not in a given case be affected to a sufficient degree to manifest
all the phenomena of mesmeric somnambulism, then, we ask,
until the order in which these phenomena occur has been
defined, what proof that he was sufficiently affected to present
any-that he was a somnambulist at all ? •
§ 518. When it is desired to prove that the patient cannot
hear, he is usually deaf enough; when it is wished to prove
insensibility of the surface, he will bear pain without injury,
but he generally forgets that he ought aiso to be deaf; he hears
ann answers questions. And notwithstanding the insensibility
of feeling, a patient deep enough to be clairvoyant will com-
plain that he finds the effort of seeing through the back of his
head very fatiguing, (§ 344.)
§ 519. With respect to transposition of the senses: common
sensibility is universal; hearing and smell, from the universality
of the medium through which they are affected, are virtually,
though not literally so ; and taste is so much modified and as-
sisted by smell, that it would be difficult, without intentionally
preventing all aid from that sense, to obtain any evidence of
transposed sensation. Vision offers us the readiest and least
doubtful means for testing the existence of extreme sensibility,
transposition, or community of sensation. And it is not more
on account of the most marvellous of all the' statements of the
mesmerists having reference to this sense, than from its being
a test of the alleged effects on the other senses, that clairvoy-
140 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
ance has justly been considered the touchstone of mesmerism.
If all that refers to the eye is false, there is nothing worthy ol'
argument in _what_ has been adduced with respec~ to the other
senses; and 1f clanvoyance be true, we may admit all the rest.
Clairvoyance is so highly improbable, that no reasonable person
could admit it to be true on grounds that were in the slightest
degree open to suspicion. Is there a single instance of success
• where to suspect would be imp~ssiblP, to doubt, unreasonable?
Mr. Townshend's case of E. A. IS perhaps as strong as any It
is affirmed that he read a letter, previously unseen by him, in
a perfectly dark closet, and that, in order to increase his per-
spicacity, he intentionally muffled his head in a dressing-g0wn.
·we cannot deny this, and we are constrained to believe that the
narrator thinks it genuine; but it seems strange that the ad-
dition of more than a certain number of towels, on another
occasion, should quite prevent his seeing, (§ 341 ;) that the
presence of a sceptic should destroy his lucidity, (§ 346 ;) that
to read a book, it must, to a certain extent, be open,(§ 3<
13 ;)
that to see distinctly with his forehead, the object must not be
held too close to the forehead, (§ 344 ;) and in cases of difficulty
his electric method i~ very like an ingeniously devise::d mode of
gaining an opportunity for an unobserved peep, (§ 344.) His
frontal vision through coloured lenses, however, is an experi-
rnentum crusis, (§339.) He saw things blue when he applied
a blue lens to his forehead. But he saw things not largl'r
when he looked with his forehead through a magnifying-glass.
Colour being the result of a certain impression made by lumi-
nous rays on the retina, if light could be so conveyed a~ to
produce the sensation of colour, it could be so conveyed as to
give the notion of size ; the magnifying-glass should have en-
larged the objects. If, as Mr. Townshend contends, the eye
had nothing to do with the phenomenon, how can we account
for the blue colour? If the eye was the percipient organ, how
account for t e non-enlargement? The size of bodies, their
relative position and distance, are judged by us from the visual
angle made by the rays of light in entering the eye, or rather,
I believe, from the situation at which the luminous rays im-
pinge on the retina, with reference to the centre of acute
vision.* The eye is constructed with express regard, an! is
essential, to the performance of this function. In clairvoyance,
either the patient does use the eye, in which case the recti-
linear passage of light-the basis of optics-is a fallacy; or
the opaci~y of bodi~s no obstacl~ to the passage of luminous
rays, wh1ch expenence contradicts; or else he sees objects,
distinguishes size, and measures distance, without the use of
• See Essays on Strabismus, in Medical Gazette, for 1842, p. 743.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM:. 141
the eye, in which case all that was before established in the
physiology of vision must be wrong.
§ 520. The ideal figures and colours of spectral illusions,
the distinctnes~ of an imaginary scene, and the vividness of
mere mental visions, do not in the least prove that the eye is a
useful help, but not an organ in all cases essential to sight;
that the optic nerve and urai n can of themselves distinguish
objects. Without the eye, we see only wh:J.t we think, not
what exists before us. A blind man who thinks intently of an
absent friend, pictures him to himself in his mind's eye; but
he could not see tha~ his friend had got a new coat on if that
friend stood before him.
§ 5:21. It has been remarked, that we know not how much
common sensation through the fifth nerve has to do with vi-
sion. Probably not; but we know how little. Magendie's ex-
periments (§ 4GO) have long been divested of the importance
he assigned to them. Besides, during mesmeric somnambulism
sufficiently deep to render visual sensibility impossible, com-
mon sensibility would surely be abolished.
§ !522. If a slight degree of somnambulism be sufficient for
the development of clairvoyance, we ought to be able to see
that state at pleasure in any mesmerised_ sleepwaker. If, on
the other hand, a high degree be requisite, then, when clair-
voyance is present, the more ordinary effect of mesmerism-
insensibility of the various organs of sense-must surely have
been produced. ·what says the evidence? The clairvoyant
converses with her operator exclusively, (unless she forgets her
part for the moment and err!',) or with any bystander, according,
it would seem, to the theory favoured by the individual mes-
mCI·ising. Hence she gives the ordinary signs of hearing,
thinking, and speaking. She feels heat, and, if she fancies it
proper to do so, calls it cold,(§ 290 ;) hence there is r.ommon
sensibility. When a good opportunity offered, some clairvoy-
ants have been noticed to assist mesmeric by ordinary vision ;
some at least, therefore, can see in the common way.
§ 523. The facts adduced to prove that the patient smells
only what the mesmeriser doe~, gener:1lly prove that the mes-
merized patient can smell an oderiferous substance like any one
else; hence we have the sense of smell retained. Judging the
facts in the ordinary way, nature asserts that the clairvoyant
has the perfect use of his five senses. The mesmerists, for the
most part, declare that he has not. Yet we occasionally have
an admission that the thoughts and acts of the clairvoyant pro-
ceeded from inferences obtained through the senses in the or-
dinary way, (§ 330.) Indeed, somnambulists themselves will
sometimes describe the sensations experienced by them during
their sleepwaking, forgetting that they ought to have been all
the time mesmerically insensible. (§ 327.)
142 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
§ 524. By one clairvoyant, light is perceived, and is di~a­
greeable; another cannot see unless there is light, (~ 310 ;) a
third, when there is much light, declares she cannot see be-
cause it is too dark,(~ 355 ;) and a fourth, who (curious coin-
cidence !) had witnes;;ed the clairvoyance of the third, like-
wise averred that a great darkness had come upon her when
light was flashed across her face. (§ 356.)
§ 5:2.
3. Th eodore is clairvoyant, and tells Lhe hour by a watch,
yet rinns writtw words " of a tolerable size too small for him
to distinguish,'• (§ 337.) Curious lucidity, that is overpowered
by such a shadow of a shade of difference as that of the size
of letters, and of the figures on a watch face ! Anna M--
appear~d to subject the object to the scrutiny of a double or-
gan,(§ 338,) and as Mr. T--appears to be rather near-sighted,
(§ 339,) perhaps this was not merely appearance. Her two or
three preparatory convulsive starts (§ 338) are analogous to
"Le moyen electriqne," and were probably for the same pur-
pose. Like E. A-- (§ 3<
H,) and like every waking person,
she could discern an object better if distant a few inches from
the forehead than when close to it-a fact explicable eno11gh in
reference to ordinary sight, but mysterious as relating to clair-
voyance.
§ 526. A clairvoyant is requested to send her mind to a cer-
tain house, not particularized, but thought of by the operator,
(§ 357.) She gives a correct description of the one next door
-i. e., one not thought of by the mesmeriser. Now as the
will of the operator could not originate this mesmeric move-
ment of the patient's mind, and as the patient had not been told
by any one the exact house required, what caused the blunder?
The p.tient undoubtedly misunderstood the questions, and
thinking a certain place to be the one intended, described that
the mesmeric movement thus originating in the wi1I of the pa-
tient, not of the operator, and that will itself arising from or-
dinary exercise of reason on insufficient grounds.
§ 527. Another clairvoyant describes everything correctly,
except that she states the proprietor of the place to be in a cer-
tain room, though in reality he is not, (§ 358.) If she saw at
all what was in that room, how came she to see what was not
there?
§ 528. Mr. Peale's case proves merely that the rustling of a
straw brnnet may be heard by a blind mesmeric clairvoyant,
(§ 369.)
§ 529. The facts under the heads of intuition and prevision
require only to be perused, for their condemnation. To the
medical man, their absolute irreconcilableness with anatomy,
physiology, and pat~ology, are ad~itional and convincing proofs
of the extent to whtch a mesmenst must carry his credulity,
and keep down his reason. Their being put forth for our be-
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 143
lief is a strong argum~nt against allowing any more credit to
other facts of mesmensm than their intrinsic merits demand.
B.ecause a I?an is known to be subject to giddiness, intuition
discovers fnnges of blood at the bottom of his brain ! An ab-
scess of th~ hi_p-jo_i~t, that had existed for four years, is seen
by mesmenc wtml10n, and a cure promised (prevision) and
effected in ten days, by-a poultice of hemlock and marshmal-
lows!
§ 530. The intellect is wonderfully augmented in power,
and the moral man in spirituality, by mesmerism: the patient
ha~< a horror of falsehood. The attraction towards the mes-
meriser is a refined instinct, not a passion. In a word, the
mesmerised patient becomes almost angelic, (§ 384.) Yet,
says the same authority, "nothing can be more unsatisfactory
than the account which mesmerised persons give of their own
mode of sensation." How is this ? So intelligent, it cannot
be from want of knowledge ! So veracious, it cannot be from
a wish to deceive! On the other hand, we are warned against
the tricks and deceptions of genuine mesn1eric somnambulists,
and informed that a mesmerised patient, so far from always
possessing "a high tone of spirituality and sense of right,"
(§ 411,) belongs body and soul to the mesmeriser for the time
being, and can, at his behest, be rendered as little angelic as
possible,(§ 412.) Which statement-not, be it remembered,
of opinion, but of observed hcts-are we to crtdit? Both ar~
probably mere specimens of that nonsense of which, as Addi-
son observes, " If it affirms anything, you cannot lay hold of
it; or, if it denies, you cannot confute it."
§ 531. Of the many instances in which mesmerism traves-
ties nature, phreno-magnetism is the most striking. If a pa-
tient really was deprived of consciousness and of volition
during his mesmeric sleepwaking, as is asserted, and his men-
tal faculties really could be called forth singly or in combina-
tion, at pleasure, hy any means whatever, would not nature
present us with true manifestations of each kmd; quite un-
mixed when one faculty only was excited; accurately com-
bined when several were roused? Let any mesmerist say
whether, in one instance, the manifestation has accorded with
the truth, simplicity, and certainty of nature. Has it not been
either decidedly wrong, m· an unnatural manifestation under
the circumstances, or a jumble together of the action of seve-
ral faculties where one only was called for? The various ex-
amples, discoveries, and theories of phreno-magnetism are
worthy of each other and of their subject, but the spirit of
Gall would scarcely delight in this new and parasitic ally of
phrenology.
§ 532. Examining phreno-magnetism as if it were true, a
few questions arise on the moment. As every organ has its
144 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
negative or opposing organ next to it, vvhat need of any op-
posing organ in another part of the brain ?-e. g., destructive-
ness, when the negative of benevolence must be very similar.
Of what use are gene1·al organs, as sublimity and beauty, when
every single object is said to have a special organ to ob ervc it!
As there is an or~an of con~>ciousness, how can any of the oth-
ers be roused by Itself; since unless consciousness is excited,
the others ought not to be conscious of the application of any
stimulus? As the organs are so very numerous and closely
packed, how does so large a surface as the point of a finger ex-
cite but one organ at once? As the mesmeric influence is so
penetrating, and acts at so great a distance, how is it prevented
from passing right through the first organ and affecting others?
As there is a special organ for attitudinising, why does each
organ, when excited, give the appropriate attitude-attiludin-
ising and the organ of muscular motion being unexcited?
When hearing alone is awoke, how does the patient understand
any question so as to answer correctly, notwithstanding the or-
gan of the faculty to which the question refers is still in mes-
meric unconsciousness ? As we appreciate things by the ideas
which they excite, and as every different object excites a dis-
tinct idea, if there be an organ for every separate ohject, there
must be a special cerebral organ for every idea. Why not assert
that there are separate muscular organs for playing on the piano
and playing on the fiddle, for singing and speaking, blowing
the clarionet, and winding the French horn? Certain of these
cerebral organs must become needless as, in the march of im-
provement, certain objeds of attention cease to be. On the
other hand, new organs should spring up as new inventions
demand them. The organ for stage-coach travelling should be
replaced by one for railway transit ! If there be an organ for
every idea, every one should possess a complete stock for every
possible idea on every possible subject.. How useless such a
supply to some !-how superfluous some of these organs to all!
" Chameleon spirit- imperishable, glorious, and immortal
HUMBUG ! Hail !"*
§ 533. No assertions of the mesmerists have contributed so
much to stagger popular disbelief as the alleged cures of com-
plaints ordinarily difficult of cure. With a medical man, on
the contrary, no other evidence in the abstract has less weight.
Knowing the many fJUestions involved in reasoning on the real
power of any remedial agent, the extensive knowledge, prac-
tised and accurate observation, and cautious reasoning required,
he has less faith at his disposal than those who see in an effect
indubitable evidence of the efficacy of the favourite one-it
may be the least, possibly, of many influential causes. Were
• The King's Own. (Marryat.)
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 145
assertions and vaunting of cures any measure of the truth,
there would not be a single incurable, nor a single not easily
curable, disease. Frequent bleedings; beef-steaks and porter;
tar-vapour; oxygen; iodine; common salt; St. John-Long's
frictions ; naphtha-; and other remedies innumerable, have
been stated to have the power of curing consumption ; yet the
bills of mortality show no corresponding diminution in the
average number of deaths from that fell scourge. Is it owing
to ignorance, apathy, or petty jealousy, preventing medical
men from availing themselves of the means pointed out, or is
it due to the futi.lity of the means? Experience so constantly
proves the latter, that few are disposed to accept any new
remedy on mere assertion, but require that repeated and au-
thentic trials by competent judges shall have proved its effi-
cacy. From the intricacy of the questions preventing exactness
and certainty in forming conclusions, many others consider
themselves quite as competent as members of the profession to
decide upon medical questions,-the very difficulty of the sub-
ject thus serving as a cloak for the ignorance of the inquirer.
Except in the most plain and unmistakable cases,-and these
are but few,-the statements of non-professional persons in
support of remedies are of not the slightest value; for where
minute observation is required, testimony is important in pro-
portion to the acquaintance of the witness with the subject on
which he testifies. ·
§ 534. Mr. Tubbs, sur~eon, cures chlorosis by mesmerism and
iron, (§ 444.) Dr. Ellwtson states, that over chlorosis mes-
merism has no control, (§ 440-4·5,) whilst Teste places it first
in the catalogue of those diseases in which magnetism chiefly
succeeds, (§ 437)!
§ 535. Dr. Elliotson's cases, from the minuteness with which
they are narrated, and the undoubted professional attainments
of their narrator, and, more than all, from the internal evi-
dence of ingenuousness which they bear, furnish us with almost
the only facts worthy of notice under this head ; and notwith-
standing the considerable length of time required in most of
them, we must admit that some severe anomalous nervous af-
fections recovered, after mesmeric manipulations, which, in all
probability, would have remained unaltered, or possibly might
have gone worse, had no means of any kind been empl?yed.
Had Dr. Elliotson stated that he himself had cured cataract,
or cancer, or bronchocele, or confirmed structural disease of
any kind, (ascertained beyond doubt to be such,) his cas~s
could scarcely have ranked higher than those of other mesmenc
authorities. But he affirms nothing on the remedial power of
mesmerism, so incredible; and although we may (as I myself
do) differ with him toto crelo in judgment upon observed facts,
X
14S HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
yet when those facts are such as chiefly require acute medical
observation, we must receive and value them as far as they go.
§ 536. Can such a degree of insensibility to pain be pro-
duced by mesmeric processes, as shall remove that natural
source of dread of surgical operations? Without more than
allusion to the question whether the entire absence of pain
would be desirable for the ultimate welfare of the patient, in
all surgical operations,* since in depression from severe injury
the pain of an operation is sometimes the surest mode of ex-
citing the powers of life, or, as Mr. Abernethy said, "some-
times the knife is the best stimulus," we may admit that, in
most cases, it would be highly desirable to obtund the sensi-
bility of the patient, and this has often been tried by giving
narcotics, and by bleeding to faintness. We have only two
means of ascertaining insensibility to pain: the assertion of the
patient, and the absence of the signs by which nature expres-
sively betokens sufferin?;. That these do not always coincide
is proved by the following case, for which I am indebted to
Mr. Dunn, of Manchester. t A girl, who had been once or
twice mesmerised, was affected with whitlow, requiring an in-
cision to be made through the palmar surface of the affected
finger. Every surgeon will admit, that no operation, great or
small, is attended, for the instant, with more acute pain than
lancing this highly-sensitive part when inflamed from sub- thecal
abscess. The girl was mesmerised, the arm stretched out, and
the incision made. Her face had an expression of great pain,
large drops of perspiration burst out on her forehead ; there
was a feeble ejaculation, but the arm stirred not. Mesmeric
passes were continued for some minutes more, and then the girl
was roused. She assured Mr. Dunn that she was ignorant of
what had occurred, and had felt no pain. The girl was previ-
ously acquainted with the alleged effects of mesmerism in pro-
ducing insensibility, but she had no assignable motive for
deception. Which of the two are we to believe, nature, or the
patient?
,_ "Quoth Hudibras, the thing called pain
Is (as the learned stoics maintain)
Not bad, simpliciter, nor gcod,
But merely aa 'tis understood."
t lam·also indebted to the same gentleman, who on many occasions has
ably exposed mesmerism, for the following instance of the force of im-
agination :-An untutored lad, who had, however, learnt that a m~smerised
objRct ought to stiftim his muscle;;, was told by Mr. Dunn to lay hold of a
stethoscope ; the thick end, he was informed, wa~ mesmerised, the other
not. The boy grasped the thick end. He was requested to put thP. instru-
ment down again. He said he could not-his arm was rigid. Demes-
merised, he was desired to take hold of the small end of the stethoscope.
'l'his, however, he could loo8e again at _pleasure. The instrument had
never been touched that day except by this boy himself!
HISTORY OF MESMERISM, 147
§ 537. To those familiar with surgical operations-who
know the great difference in the firmness of patients, how
some will bear the severest pain with unflinching fortitude,
and almost with composure, whilst others exercise no control
whatever over their feelings-there has yet been offered no
satisfactory proof that mesmerism can effect, in this respect,
what its advocates affirm.
§ 539. There is one point which has hardly received the con-
sideration it merits, in reference to this question-viz., the de-
gree in which sensation is modified by the state of mind of the
patient. One who determines to behave with great firmness
has his mind wrapped up in this determination, and abstracted
from the impressions conveyed by the injured nerves ; sensa-
tion, in consequence, is less. He therefore not merely con-
ceals his suffering better, but he has less suffering to conceal.
Conversely, a fearful, timid patient, dreading every touch, con-
centrates his attention on the suffering part, his brain is sesible
to the slightest impression; the really great impressions made
are perceived to their utmost; sensation is most acute, and be-
comes not only what the patient will not, but what he cannot,
conceal.
THE PROBABLY. AND THE POSSIBLE IN MESMERISM.
§ 539. The existence of so much that is spurious does not
prove that all that has been given to the world under the name
of mesmerism is necessarily false, however difficult it may be
to discover the truth amidst the heap of exaggeration and mis-
interpretation in which it lies concealed. No subject, per-
haps, can long maintain its ground in claiming general atten-
tion, without enlisting in its ranks indisputable facts of some
kind. These facts may prove to be old and well known; they
may not justify, in the slightest degree, the inferences which
have been drawn from them; they may admit of much more
rational explanation than the one afforded; still they lend
plausibility to the argument, and being themselves beyond
dispute, confer something of the semblance of truth on the
more exceptionable data with which they are allied. Thus,
judicial astrology contained some truths; alchemy far more;
but these truths are not to be found in the general principles of
the supposed sciences which called them forth.
§ 540. Since every writer in support of animal magneti,;m
asserts with equal confidence what we consider the probable
and the impossible, there is considerable difficulty in admitting
from the same authority what really may prove to have be~
uncoloured facts. On this account, it is impossible, at present,
to feel satisfied of the entire truth of any of these so-called facts.
Still several of them are probable, others less probable would
148 HISTORY OF !>fESMERISM.
not disagree with established truths, whilst the most marvellous
could hardly be received on any testimony, and certainly have
no claim to consideration on that at present furnished.
§ 541. Passing by what are styled the hi~her phenomena-
clairvoyance, intuition, prevision, increased mtellectuality, and
moral rectitude-as far above the flights of reason and almost
of fancy, what are the mesmeric phenomena about which thero
is less than the usual discrepancy of statement? Quietude, a
sleep-like state, increased sensibility, diminished sensibility,
traction, rigidity of muscles, and unconsciousness on the part
of the patient on being demesmerised. Without vouching from
my own knowledge for the possibility of flrtificially inducing
these states at pleasure, for the sake of argument, I may as-
sume their truth.
§ 542. Is there any part of the- living system susceptible to
agents so different, capable of producing effects so various, as
those alleged, influencing and influenced by all other parts;
in brief, capable of being affected by anything and eveTything,
and capable of producing any and every kind of action which
the living body can perform? Nothing less than this would
serve to account for even the probable effects of mesmerism.
If we can find analogues to many of the best accredited mes-
meric phenomena amongst the acknowledged effects of the
mind on the body, and can refer the remainder, without any
violation of known facts, to the ascertained laws of action of
the nervous system, what reason have we to assume a new
agent, to exchange a power of which we know something for
one of which we know nothing, especially when the assump·
tion of the latter in no respect lessens difficulty? But the
mesmeric medium includes as component parts both mind and
nervous energy, and connects these with the external world.
Be it so. As the mind and nervous energy are all that we re-
quire to account for what is likely to be true, it is of little im-
portance whether we consider them as first or second in the
order of causation; as the agents themselves, or merely as the
essential media through which another power is always and
solely manifested. And .to term this imagined power mes-
meric, or Utopian, or by any other name, is inconvenient only
so far as it is not conventional, and to assume its existence is
injurious only because, explaining nothing, it is superfluous,
and, cloaking ignorance, it misleads. The mesmerist who
really believes his own doctrines may contend that, as the uni-
versal medium includes both mind and the nervous principle,
every mental and nervous action must be mesmeric; in which
po~ition, t):le only deficiencY: is _
the entire absence of proofs; or,
1~ he considers the mesmenc mfluence to be something dis-
tmct from mental and nervous. energy, ~nd acting indepen-
dently of them, he allows nothmg to then power. Or if, as
HISTORY OF MESMERIS:r.;f. 149
already hinted, t~e me?meric principle is supposed to set these
other ~nfluences m.actwn, then the only addition to our know-
ledge 1s, that certam manreuvres will affect the brain and ner-
vous system, and that these manreuvres are conjectured to
pro~uc.e thei~ effec~ by virtue of an ~ccult power termed mes-
mensm. It IS obvwus, as regards th1s last case, that s.ince the
occult power is merely assumed to explain the results, and the
results !flay be occasioned in a thousand different ways, the
mesmenc power must be capable of being exercised in any
way, and under all circumstances. By granting this, and in-
deed every other postulate required, the mesmerists hold a po-
. sition as impregnable as unreasonable.
§ 543. Although every reader of modern physiology will find
the following subjects much better, as well as more fully, treated
elsewhere,* yet, to avoid obscurity, the sketch I am about to
give seems necessary.
§ 544. GenUe and prolonged sensations, that are not in t~ir
nature disagreeable, have a calming and soothing influence,
and tend to induce repose, as surely as sudden, violent, and
painful sensations excite and arouse. Hence, the power of
subdued, monotonous noises, of dim twilight, and, to a certain
extent, of warmth, in producing drowsiness. Whilst the mind
is actively employed, this result will not ensue. Still, if these
gentle sensations be-as most gentle sensations are-in them-
selves pleasant, inasmuch as they cause the attention to be di-
rected to them, and in so far to be abstracted from any matter
requiring deep thought, they may, after a time, affect one on
whom at first they made no impression. The same holds good
with respect to animals. By gently rubbing a domesticated
eat's head before a warm fire, sleep very speedily comes on;
but take a strange cat, and under the same circumstances, in
other respects, sleep will not ensue. The warmth is the
same; the process ofrubbing is the same ; the magnetic fluid im-
parted(!) the same; but the brain of the recipient is different.
The strange cat is alarmed, has its attention excited, and there-
fore feels~nothing from the usually soothing means employed.
This leads to a question of great interest-the influence of at-
tention upon sensation.
§ 545. It is no mean argument in support of the unity of the
mind and its independence in some degree of the organs through
which it acts, that concentration of the mind on the impres-
sions conveyed from one organ prevents our noticing those
made upon another, and that wrapt contemplation will cause
us to neglect the impressions brought from any or all of the
• I would especially refer to the last edition of Dr. Carpenter's" Hu·
man Physiology," as con~aining the most scientific views presented in the
simplest dress. See parhcularly the foot note, p. 24.1.
150 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
senses. If this be so, it follows, that under certain stales of
the mind, and consequently under certain conditions of the
brain, impressions which, in ordinary circumstances, woul.d be
attended to, are not perceived, and may act on our senses-1. e.,
on the organs of our senses, without our consciousness, and
therefore without their ever becoming sensations. It is true,
that in the examples with which we are familiar, as in common
reverie, the impressions made and unnoticed are seldom very
strong, but if they are merely ~o strong that we should per-
ceive them at all under other circumstances, they serve toes-
tablish the fact that abstraction of attention will in some cases
prevent the perception of impressions which would usually
have caused sensations.
§ 546. When the attention is earnestly and forcibly directed
to any organ, the changes which occur in that organ,-i, e.,
the impressions made upon it-are more clearly perceived; in
other words, the sensations which result are much more intense.
Sensation is the consciousness, or the perception by the mind,
of a certain condition of the brain which has been induced by
an impression made upon and conveyed by some sensory nerve.
Where the mind is otherwise engaged, it may neglect this
change, though the impression was really made upon, and con-
ducted by, the nerve, and duly excited its natural change of
condition in the brain. Yet the mind being unconscious, there
is, strictly speaking, no sensation. When the iris obeys the
light in a child blind from chronic hydrocephalus, but still in
perfect possession of its mental faculties, we have the chain
complete, except consciousness, and, therefore, except sensa-
tion. The impression is made on the eye, conveyed by the
nerve of sight, and produces an effect on the brain as mani-
fested by the alteration in the size of the pupil.* This proves
that the change made in the brain by the sensory nerve is not
all that is requisite for sensation; there must be, in addition,
the mind's perception of such cerebral change. Here we know
that the mind cannot perceive on account of disease, but we
have illustrations daily where no disease exists; for instance,
when much interested, we forget the hour of meals, or per-
haps fail to hear the clock strike ; yet the stomach makes its
appeal, causes that change in the brain which ordinarily would
give rise to the sensation of hunger; and the sound of the
" This statement assumes,-.first, that the excitor nerve of the iris is not
the fifth, as some imagine, but e:xclusively the optic; and secondly, and
c_onseqnentlv_. that no reflex act1e:m take~ pla~e merely through the len-
ticular ~an .~l10n, but always requ1res condud10n to the brain. 1 hav11 for
some !ime been attempting to prove these di~ta by comparative anatomy,
experiments, and pathology, and thence to mfer, or to conjecture from
analo11;y, what other 11arts of the ganglionic system, besides the lenticular
ganglion, may not do, if not what they may do.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 151
clock makes its impression on the nerve, but excites not the
sensation of hearing. Observe an intent listener, how he pre-
vents any diminution of sensation from his mind being in part
otherwise employed: his eyes half-closed, his breath half-sus-
pended, for the moment his whole mind is concentrated upon
the sounds he wishes to catch. He hears them better, not so
much from the sounds thus making a stronger impression,-
though, from the ear being better prepared than usual, that is
to some extent the case,-but chiefly from his mind attending
better to tlte change going on in his brain. Hence, acuteness
ofsensation is in direct proportion to the attention given to the
impressions made.
9 5-17. It is generally thought that the action of the brain
conductors-sensory nerves, is centripetal only; in which case
their conducting power could undergo no alteration from the
effect of mental attention on the brain. There are many facts,
however, both in health and disease, which should cause hesi-
tation in reasoning, as if this proposition were firmly estab-
lished. Dr. Carpenter mentions the effect on the whole sys-
tem of sudden and great shock, and it is a striking instance.
The pa1 t played by the nerves of sensation in inflammation,
and over the bloodvessels under other circumstances, is not
made out, and conjectures might be hazarded without extrava-
gance that would qualify the generally received opinion. Be
this as it may, any alteration of conducting power in the nerves
resulting from the action of the mind on the brain, would con-
firm the remark that abstraction of mind lessens, whilst atten-
tion to an impression increasP-s, the acuteness of the sensation.
. § 548. The apparent muscular movements are either excited
and controlled solely by the will, or occasioned by mental emo-
tion, when they are to some, but to a very variable extent,
under the command of the will; or else reflex, from an im-
pression made upon excitor nerves, when they are quite invol-
untary. All three may be attended by consciousness. Vvhen
a man is eating, he is conscious of the reflex movement of
swallowing; when laughing, of the emotional movement of
his respiratory muscles; and of the movements which he wills
to perform, he is of course conscious. But to what extent is
this consciousness concerned ? To a reflex movement it is not
necessary-an unconscious apoplectic will swallow food. In
emotional and voluntary movements, we must suppose the
mind to be awake; a man, by nature, would hardly laugh at a
joke he was unconscious of, nor a woman sob from sorrow she
did not feel. But though there must be some consciousness to
allow of the existence of emotion, there may not be enough to
allow of a complete knowledge of all the changes which attend
that emotion. The effects of anger, grief, or fear, on the mus-
cles of expression, for example, are unnoticed by the one who
{
152 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
presents them. Physiology already renders it probable that as
the reflex movements are acknowledged to have their special
nervous centre, so also the emotional and voluntary movements
have each a distinct one; all three, however, being as inti-
mately related by the anatomical connexion of their organs, as
by the usual consent of their action. The phenomena of
dreaming prove that the mind can be partially, without being
completely conscious; can attend to one or several, without
perceiving all, of the impressions that may be made. In
other words, one part of the brain may sleep, whilst another is
awake. A person who talks in his sleep exemplifies voluntary
muscular movement; if he laughs or weeps, too, he adds emo-
tional movement; yet he is certainly not fully conscious-not
conscious at all, in the ordinary acceptation of the word. His
brain, or his mind, is cognizant of the ideas which occupy
him, and to that extent he may be said to be partly conscious,
but he is not aware of what is going on around him. By acting
cautiously on a particular sense, we may sometimes succeed in
suggesting idea!', and thus waking part of the brain, without
arousing the person, (§ 474.) This has been proved experi-
mentally with respect to common sensation, as when pinching
a sleeping person will cause movement and an expression of
uneasiness; and also with respect to hearing, as in the case,
given by Dr. Abercrombie, of a military man, who seems to
have had a very unmartial dread of warfare. His brother
officers were in t'he habit of whispering alarming sentences to
him whilst asleep, and could thus produce a most ludicrous
and involuntary manifestation of tenor on the part of their
sleeping and unwitting victim. But, hitherto, it has not been
proved that a person can artificially be made to see, whilst, in
all other respects, asleep. Many facts regarding somnambu-
lism,-! do not mean mesmeric somnambulism-however,
render it probable that vision may be effected to some extent
without perfect wakefulness. We may conclude that reflex
movements may occur without any consciousness whatever;
emotional and voluntary movements, with so slight an amount
of consciousness, that the person who presents them need not
necessarily be wholly awake, and will, probably, on awaking,
have no recollection of their occurrence.
§ 549. A reflex movement may be defined to be any mus-
cular act that results from exciting a nerve leading- to a ner-
vous centre, (an afferent nerve,) without the intet;'ention of
the will. Emot.ional move~ent is muscular action resulting
from some emotiOn of the mmd, and though considerahly under
the ~ontro} of the will, it may be manifested, not only without
an:y mtentwn, but in defiance of all attempts at concealment.
It IS? therefore, no~ fl!erely essentially independent of volition,
but m some eases, 1t 1s able to overpower the will. Voluntary
HISTORY OF MESMERISM, 153
movements ·ne likewise occasionally performed with an effort
of will so slibht as not to be remarked at the time, still less to
be remembered afterwards. This is best exemplified by the
fo~ce of habit: Many mechanical acts are at last performed
Without consciOusness at the time of any exercise of volition,
though at first they required the closest attention. An expert
pianist, for instance, will play a well-known air correctlv, and
almost any one can whistle a tune in time, whilst the thoughts
are completely engaged on something quite different. ln other
words, by force of habit, an act which could not originally be
performed without difficulty, becomes so very easy that the
attention required for its performance is too slight to be no-
ticed if the mind is otherwise engrossed.
§ 530. These three kinds of movement may simulate each
other, inasmuch as they are executed by the same sets of mus-
cles. Thus, <1. man may will to imitate the act of laughing or
crying, or he may will to excite the emotion of joy or sorrow
in his mind to such a degree that the emotional act resulting
will be reaL He may also, but to a less extent, call reflex
movements into action : he may sneeze, for instance, or swal-
low, at pleasure, but his will acts only indirectly, by causing
voluntary muscles to apply the stimulus to the excitor nerves.
To enable a person to sneeze at will, he must draw in cold air
to stimulate his nostrils: to swallow, he must voluntarily
place saliva at the back of the mouth to stimulate the exciters
of de5lutition. Still, directly or indirectly, any one may pre-
sent at pleasure movements which naturally may also occur
without any exercise of volition. There is, therefore, no
reason to deny that any outward muscular movement, whether
voluntary, emotional, or reflex, may take place without of ne-
cessity involving such entire consciousness as would lead the
person to comprehend what was going on, or to recollect it
afterwards.
§ 551. Rigidity of a limb is simply cramp of its muscles.
Cramp is usually a reflex, persistent (tcmic) contraction, as
convulsions are usually reflex, momentary, and recurring
(clonic) contractions of voluntary muscles acting for the time
involuntarily. Both ordinarily arise from some irritation of
internal excitor nerves: cramp of the sole of the foot, or calf
of the leg, from disordered digestive organs, and infantile con-
vulsions from teething, or crowing inspiration from irritation
of the bowels, are familiar examples. Lockjaw is merely an
exaggerated cramp arising from irritation of external excitor
nerves, as when it proceeds from a lacerated wound of highly-
sensitive parts-as the fingers or thumb. Convulsions rarely
occur from external irritation, chiefly perhaps because outward
is less common than inward irritation; but they occasionally
do so, as when an infant dies convulsed from some trifling sur-
154 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
gical operation. Hence! m~scular rigidity, whether more or
less persistent, or occurnng m paroxysms, may proceed from
excitement of any excitor nerves.
§ 552. In these remarks no attempt is made lo define ~he
word "will." It is one of many, easy to understand, but diffi-
cult to explain. So also the immateriality of the mind is taken
for granted, not from any fear that materialism would or .could
in any way militate against religion-when the reason IS sat-
isfied of the credihility of revelation, religion becomes a matter
of rational faith in divine assurances, and is far above the reach
of questions in physiology-but because it is as easy to ?on-
ceive an immaterial mind acting through organs and modified
in its manifestations by them, how we cannot comprehend, as
it is to assume that the phenomena of mind have no other
cause, no prior antecedeut, than the.action of the brain, though
1ww the one can cause the other we know not. Matter is only
known to be ~mch by its characteristics. There is nothing in
physics analogous to the operation of one mind upon another.
A word prompted through one brain shall produce intense
emotional excitement in another brain; or again, a word shall
restore tranquility. The mode of action is just as incompre-
hensible, whichever view of the nature of the mind we espouse,
therefore we gain nothing, even of facility in reasoning, by as-
suming the doctrine of ultra-materialism. But we gain much
that must logically follow most pernicious in its bearing, alike
irreconcilable with DivinP. goodness, and impiously insulting
to Divine wisdom, openly sanctioning unchecked indulgence
of the worst impulses of our nature, subversive of all moral re-
straint, and, if carried out to the full but legitimate extent,
calculated in reality to lower men to brutes, and in idea to
lower Deity to man. The new-fangled doctrine of necessity,
(see The Zoist, passim,) by which man's acts, good or bad,
are referred solely to his organization, and by which he is made
an irresponsible being, loses sight of the freedom of the will,
and like its foster-brother, termed-lucus a non lucendo-So-
cialism, contains the essence of its blasphemy in the following
words, which may be seen cut in stone in some socialist
meeting-halls:-" Man's acts are the result of his organization.
His organs are made for and not by him. Therefore the re-
sponsib~lity of his actions rests with his Maker." The Supreme
responsible! The doctrine of necessity, I assert, can lead to
n.othing short of this, and it may be well to show its great vi-
cwusness and utter unreasonableness.
§ 553. All the reasons assigned in favour of ultra-material-
ism would equally prove, if so applied, that the varied hues
of the .solar spectr1_1m had n? other cause than the glass prism
by whJCh the lummous ray 1s refracted. The mind is feeble
when the brain is imperfect, strong when this is mature, and
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 155
again weakened as the body sinks to decrepitude. The colours
are dull when the prism. is imperfect; bright, as this is clear
and well-made; and agam dull as, by use, the glass get rubbed
and. worse for. wear. Destroy the brain,-the mind is gone.
Break the pnsm,-the spectrum vanishes. Hence as the
mind is never manifested without the brain, varies wi'th every
variation in the condition of the brain, it must be caused
solely by the brain. To render this logic, we must do more
than assume that the brain is of itself alone sufficient to pro-
duce mental phenomena: this, from its nature, is not ope,n to
proof. 1Ve know-for this can be proved-that the spectral
tints depend upon the prism, vary with its variation, cease with
its destruction; but we know, also, that the prism must be
supplied with a ray of light, or no spectrum can be formed.
The luminous ray alone cannot make the spectrum, without
some material agent for its refraction, nor can the prism with-
out the light surface. In like manner we assume that the ani-
mating power is '()ne thing, and the action of the brain another,
though both are essential to the manifestation of mind.* How
a materialist can be a mesmerist, and account for clairvoyance
by assuming the temporary dissociation of mind and matler,
whilst another believer considers the fact (!) a strong argu-
ment for the immaterir.tlity of the mind, would astonish those
unaccustomed to the writings of the mesmerists.
§ 554. Taking it, then, as an ultimate fact, that the mind
acts by and through the brain, and also acts differently by means
of different parts of the brain, it follows ti1at the mind governs
the actiQn of the brain to a great extent, can set this or that
part to work, so to speak, at will, and can of itself, through
its cerebral organs, induce any and every phenomenon which
physiology refers to the brain. To examine the influence
of the mind on the body is, therefore, merety to ascertain
the power of the brain over different parts of the living sys-
tem. 1Vhatever effect on other parts the brain has the power
of producing may res:xlt ~rom the influenc~ of t.he I?ind, whi~h,
by affecting the bram, ts thus an antenor lmk m the cham.
'fhe mind itself may originate the action, or it may be, in the
first instance, itself affected by external agencies. A delicate
lady passes a disgusting object; being earnestly engaged in
thouO'ht or conversation, she sees but does not notice it-i. e.,
the i':npression is made on the eye, and conducted to the brain,
but not attended to. But let her mind be unoccupied at the time
-she attends to the visual impression ; ideas of disgust arise
• "Grant that corporeal is the human mind,
It must have parts in infinitum joined ;
And each of these must will, perceive. d<!sign,
And draw confus'dly in a difl'ercnt line."-JENYN~
!56 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
in her mind, (emotion;) she shudders, and her heart thr~bs,
(emotional movement;). she feels ~ausea, an~ perhaps .swtm-
ming in the head, (emotwnal sensatwn.) Th1s 1s all mdtrectly
under the control of the will. The lady might instantly and
forcibly remove her mind from the object, and then the results
would not ensue; but if she dwells upon the rlisagreeable s-ensa-
tionsT the effects will follow, however unwilling she may be.
§ 555·. What is this imagination, ask some of the mesf!lerist:>,
to which so much is referred by our opponents? It m•ght be
sufficient to reply that it is what, by other mesmerists,* is
deemed of itself able to produce, by its effect on the body, real
and visible bleeding holes in the hands of its votaries! Em-
bracing the suggestions, willerl or spontaneous, of all the mental
faculties, implied in every thought, influencing every voluntary
act, the end to which the real tends, the source from which the
ideal springs,-what is imagination? In reference to mesmer-
ism, we may define it to be the conception of what does not
actually exist, or at least of what does not exist to the
extent supposed, and the firm conviction that this concep-
tion arises from reality. Hence, as- the same attention which
renders actual impressions more perceptible, and actual sensa-
tions more vivid, (§ 546,) is equally potent in its effect on the
ideas, which arise spontaneously, without any external cause,
it is common for the mind to dwell on its own internal sugges-
tions-the offspring of memory, modified, it may be, by erro-
neous opinion,-untit it believes them to have been occasioned
by some outward agency, which in reality never operated at
all. The mind in this way, is often its own dupe. The
essence of ening imagination is hasty conclusion from insuffi-
cient data. Thus, when a man, in the obscurity of night,
bewildered by his fears, mistakes his own dressing-gown for a
living person, or for an angel, and fancies that he sees a. vision,
he. has some grounds, but very insufficient ones, for the infer-
ence he draws; yet he wiH oftentimes as firmly believe the
dictates of this perverted reason as he would the most clear
and self-evident deductions of his deliberate judgment.
• "In regard to the appearance of the stigmata: and the small wounds
on the hear! of the Addolorata, Dr. Elliotson and Mr. Atkinson both are of
opinion that they might be the &fl"ect of strong imagination and habitual
contemplation upon a highly-diseased frame: if that view te trop fort for
some ;eaders, I can say, on the other hand, in spite of Lord Shrewsbury's
assertiOn, that as 'a piece of deception, it is physically impossible;' that
I woulrl have engaged, repeatedly, .to ha.ve made the very same marks
upon the head and. hand o~ Anne. VIals.without any consciousness on hcT
part. All me8mensers Will confirm tlus declaration · at the same time I
sec n? reason to cha:ge the !yro.les~ priests with any artifice of the kind.
The mvoluntary eflect of Imagmahon, after a preconceived idea iH so
stron~ with some. sickly sleep-:vaking females, that through the ba're im·
pression of the ~md, <>~ature IIUght throw out the external phenomenon."
-[SMdby, op. Clt. p. -vl.
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 157
. § 5_56. But the effects of the mind on the body are not merely
m~a~mary, though the mental condition in which they at first
ongmated may have been nothing more. Sudden fright has
c~used death; sudden joy ha:s done the same; and mental emo·
bons less extreme have produced, and do constantly produce
every conceivable effect upon the body. The well-authenti-
cated proofs of this on record would fill a volume. Weeping
from grief, biliousness from melancholy, perspiration from fear,
are common examples of the power of the mind over secretion;
blushing, and a feeling of heat from shame, paleness and sense
of coldness from terror, throbbing of the heart and vertigo from
rage, prove the same influence over circulation and sensation.
And " mental emotions of some strength and endurance have a
manifest influence on the energy of the strictly voluntary con-
tractions all over the body ; some, such as anger, hope, joy,
increasing the muscular vigour, while others, such as grief, fear,
or, more correctly, despair, diminish it. There are examples of
persons long paralytic, who have recovered the power over their
limbs suddenly, when under the influence of violent emotions,
and there are many instances of great, although temporary,
increase of muscular strength, from the influence of military
ardour, anu still more of religious enthusiasm or fanaticism."
I make no apology for adding the following lengthy quotation
from the same beautiful chapter of Dr. Alison: "Such emotions
as act permanently, and without violent agitation- e. g., the
emotion of pleasure that attends any occupation which interests
and occupies the mind; the emotion of hope, from the pros-
pect of lasting enjoyment, or of returning. health; the emotion
of benevolence, which attends the conferring, or that of grati-
tude, which follows the receiving, of benefits; even the excite-
ment produced by a certain degree of the feeling of indjgnation;
when of sufficient intensity and duration, and especially when
strongly contrasted with the previous state of the mind- have
a decided effect on the circulation, which is chiefly observed
throughout the capillary system. They cause a slight but per-
manent glow on the countenance, which contrasts with the
paleness of grief; they quicken the flow of fluids through, or
the secretion on, the conjunctiva and cornea, and give bril-
liancy to the eye; they perhaps elevate slightly the temperature
of the surface, and ce1iainly {:ause it to be less easily depressed
tiy cold. According to the observations of Sanctorius, and of
Bryan Robinson, they increase the insensible perspiration by
:he skin; and according to Dr. Prout, they increase the quan-
tity of carbonic acid thrown off at the lungs; they prom?te the
secretions, as is obvious from their influence in increasmg the
power of digestion, and securing the regular evacuati?n of the
bowels; and favour nutrition, as appears from their bemg gene·
rally found in connexion with increasing bulk of the body;
I
158 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
they have a well-ascertained effect in protectin& the body
against the influence, not only of cold, but of malana and con-
tagion, therefore against all the most powerful causes of acute
disease; they manifestly accelerate the convalescence from
acute diseases, and are found very beneficial in various chronic
diseases, in which debility is a prominent symptom. In these
last instances the effect of these emotions is to counteract
causes which evidently weaken, and to assist other means, par-
ticularly the use of nourishing fovd, and agreeable sensations
of warmth, or moderate alternations of temperature, which
strengthen the body. Tl1e effect of these emotions is the>reforc
gently and permanently, and often most beneficially, exciting
or tonic, on the circulation; and it is most distinctly observed
in the vital action~ that take place in the capillary system of
vessels,-the heart's action being little affected in most of these
cases,-while in many other instances, both from mental and
physical causes, the heart is manifestly excited without any of
these good effects."*
§ 557. ·w e may conclude that there are many diseases which
arise through the mind, still more which are kept up by the
influence of the mind on the body; many which may be removed
by acting on the mind, and through the mind on the system;
and none over which the ::!tate of mind does not exert some
influence.
§ 558. Assuming that the preceding remarks contain nothing
more than any physiologist without mesmerism would have
predicated, let us examine how many of the alleged facts of
mesmerism, conceding their truth, may be explained by refer-
ence to them. All the more probable facts-viz., quietude,
repose, sleep; heightened or diminished sensibillty ; muscular
acts of various kinds, and muscular rigidity, without conscious-
ness; convulsions; and effects curative or injurious, according
to circumstance<>, in every affection in which the functional
disorder of the nervous system plays an important part, might
be the results anticipated from any mode·of calling into opera-
tion the various tendencies referred to. It is obvious that clair-
voyance and its allied powers are not el ucirlatcd by any of the::e
admitted physiological facts. ·
• The reader who takes as much interest as my~elf in thi3 part of the
subject will find information in the following works, in addition to Ali6on's
Physiology, from which the two Jagt extracts are marie :-!sin Fevelata ·
Abercrombie on the Brain; Abercrombie on the Intellectual Faculties:
Darwin's Zoonom1a; Mason Good's Study ofMedicine; Brown's Lecture~
on the Mind; Holland's Medical Notes and Reflections· and Hecker'•
Epidemics, by Dr. Babington. T.he dist.ribution of the ladhrymal branch
of the fifth nerve, and that of D?mute filaments from the cerebro-cpina
nerves to the coats o.f ~he ar~enes of the extremitie~. countenances the
conJE"Cture of a~ occasiOnal, lf not of a constant, centrifugal action o! the
nerves of sensation, ( 9568.)
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 159
CONCLUSION.
§ 559. When Lafontaine was in Manehester, I allowed him
to attempt to mesmerise me. Like others, I was placed in a
low, ca~y ch.a;.r, my magnetiser sitting before me on a high
sto?l, w1th his back towa:ds a large chandelier, the glare from
which was thus thrown d1rectly on my face. Fixing an intent
'look on my eyes, which I was not to move, Lafontaine placed
his thumbs against mine, his fingers resting gently on the backs
of my hands, and his knees and feet being in contact with my
own. At first, I gave myself up entirely, in mind and body, to
Lafontaine, obeyed his directions implicitly, and desired to do
everything to favour his success. After a time, the constrained
position in which I sat began to fatigue me; the constant tickling
of hands and knees made those parts tingle; sight became dis-
ordered, objects appearing too large, indistinct, or ceasing to be
visible; my eyes felt dry and tight, and I had a strong inclina-
tion to relieve them by winking or closing the eyelids. My
head became rather mazy, and I could not concentrate my
thoughts as at first. I felt that I should, in some measure, lose
consciousness, if this continued. Having expected all this, and
predetermined at first to give way, and afterwards to try whe-
ther, hy an effort of will, I could throw off the strange feelings,
I abstracted my attention from what was going on, and at the
same time I relieved my eyes, not by closing them, but by
altering the axis of vision. Lafontaine now released my thumbs, 'l
and made a quivering motion with his fingers before my eyes, F
following their axis, however I might vary it. But as I could
move my eyeballs quicker than he his fingers, he did not suc-
ceed in again rivetting my attention. Meanwhile I rubbed my
thumbs against my fingers, and my knees against each other,
and thus destroyed the peculiar tickling sensations there. Pre-
sently, Lafontaine desisted and pointing to my eyes with a shrug
of disapprobation, ejaculated, "Les yeux !" At the solicitation
of some medical friends, he made a second attempt in a few
minutes, but with similar result.
§ 560. Had I omitted to alter my fixea gaze, the result would
have been different. My tired eyes and eyelids would have
found relief by closure ; my brain bewildered by the variety of
strancre sensations conveyed from eyes and limbs, my mind con-
fuselby all the circumstances, I should have had swimming
in the· head, and probably the sensation one experiences so
commonly on looking down from a great height, or on gazing
e'l.rnestly at a rapidly revolving object, and then more or less
unconsciousness. Now if these effects were produced in con-
sequence of some special mesmeric influ~n<:e conveyed fr~m
Lafontaine's body into mine, why should th1s mfluenc~ exert Its
peculiar power only when admitted through the pupils of the
160 HISTORY OF :MES.M:ERISM:.
eyes, and be resisted when such entrance was prevented.
Surely the opaque parts of the eyeball could not oficr any
obstacle to an agent which finds no impediment in the side of
a house, or in several miles of atmospheric air!
§ 561. I was afterwards operated on by a potent mesmeriser
under less exciting circumstances and did my utmost to have
the state of somnambulism ind11ced. I usually felt very com-
fortable indeed in about ten minutes, the effects on the skin of
the gentle waft.; of air from the passes being very agreeable. I
closed my eyes and moved my limbs wherever I thought my
meameriser wished; tried to have catalepsy of them induced,
but always in vain, as I could move them at pleasure. I was
perfectly conscious, heard all that was said, and did not rouse
myself from my pleasant day-dream until my mesmerisc:r grew
tired, or until I heard him declare to my father (a medical man)
that "the mesmeric sleep was passing into ordinary slumber''!
§ 562. I am aware that this negative influence on myself does
not disprove the mesmeric effects stated to have been produced
on others, but it may serve to show how easily the imagination
might have converted a simple into a mesmeric agency.
§ 563. Whatever may be the genuine effects producible by
mesmeric processes, I am perfectly convinced, that in the great
majority of cases at public exhibitions, in which they were con-
fidently stated to be manifested, there was deception, either in-
tentional or unintentional.
§ 564. I have been present and have taken notes of all the
proceedings at many exhibitions on mesmerism and its vari-
eties, and have been forced to the conclusion, that it would be
more charitable than reasonable to suppose that the actors
themselves, in many instances, believed anything to be genuine
but their own imposture.
§ 565. Deception, however, may exist to a great extent with-
out implying wilful deceit. Medical men, who are in the con-
stant habit of carefully weighing the evidence of individuals in
reference tu their own states, know better than others how fre-
quently a person's testimony as to what occurs to himself is not
trustworthy. With every intention to be accurate and truthful,
the patient often states what he believes to be true, but what
is not to be implicitly relied on as a guide in practice.
§ 566. Hypnotism does not allow of the action of any nervous
fluid, or other agency furnished by a second person, but ascribes
all its phenomena "to an impression made upon the nervous
centres by the physical and psychical condition of the patient."*
• Neurypnology, p. 31, et. seq. >yben the famous Dr. Dee, in the six·
teenth century, stared at h1s crJ:stal until he saw a viaion of angels, he
found that he must concentrate hts whole attention on the crystal or like
"spirits from the vasty deep," the angels would not come whe~ h~ did
calL Have we not here the first type of hypnotism 1
HISTORY OF MESMERJ8M. 161
Ordinary sleep is not attended by stupor, palsy, or muscular
movement~. Hypnotism sometimes is. In sleep we l:Jave no
phrenological manifestations; in hypnotism these have been
educed. ~y c~mmon. sleep we cannot make the deaf hear;
by hypnottsm, It 1s sa1d, we may. But when a person is not
fast asleep, but voluntarily, though he believes otherwise, in a
half-sleeping, half-waking state, with his eyes closed, the im-
agination has full play. A credulous person will believe that
he hears better, (§ 334 ,) and state it confidently; yet his
statement is not a proof of the fact. The hypnotists allow, that
unless there is a fixation of the mental .eye-i. e., an entire
giving up of the mind to the hypnotising process, they fail to
induce the hypnotic phenomena: thus, the mental eye is essen-
tial. But a blind man, or a man with his eyes closed or ban-
daged, who will only think of some dull subject without inter-
mission, may become hypnotised. Hence the corporeal eye is
not essential. It follows, that as the mind without interfering
with the body further than to prevent any causes of disturbance
from interfering with the mind, is quite sufficient to produce
hypnotism, that state is sometimes produced entirely through
the mind; and that as hypnotism can never be induced where
the mind is not more or less affected, hypnotism is never pro-
duced solely by any induced physical condition of the body.
And if the body be primarily affected, only inasmuch as a cer-
tain small part of it is wearied by prolonged action-though
when a person hypnotises himself in one minute, the body can
scarcely be said to have anything whatever to do with the effect
-as we know by experience that this corporeal condition alone
cannot lead to such wonderful effects as those asserted, to what
must these be referred ? In the first instance, solely and ex-
clusively to the other elementary condition laid down-the state
of the mind. We know by experience that all imaginable
wonders may be performed under an excited and perverted
imagiuation. We know that the body may then be secondarily
affected to an almost incredible extent. We know by experi-
ence that reason is no longer trustworthy; that a man first de-
ceives himself, and then others, with respect to the causes of
sensations and actions which, as they depend on imagination,
are at first themselves imaginary. Hence, the firm conviction
of one, however respectable and desirous to speak the truth,
who has given himself up to be hypnotised with perfect faith
and excited imagination, cannot always be admitted as unques-
tionable proof of the real origin of what he experienced
§ 5G7. Instances are commonly given in which we are t0ld
the imagination could exercise no influence. But ~ow can we·
prevent the mind from taking part in any mode of ac~mg thro~gh
the senses ! If a mesmeriser would affect a man m the m1dst
of a crowd, who was expecting no mesmeric influence to bf
v
162 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
exerted, and could ascertain nothing to excite his suspicion
through the medium of his senses, we should see no effect from
the imagimtion, and it may be doubted whether we should
have much more from the mesmerism. In a large town, a sub-
ject of sufficient notoriety to demand a public lecture for its
elucidation, can seldom be unknown to any who attend. And
if previously acquainted with the effects which are said to be
produced, the patient fully participates in the confidence with
which the lecturer expects their production. His imagination
is excited; his expectation raised: the first feeling of fatigue
is mistaken for the first effect of the occult influence ; faith
becomes unbounded; the confident belief that certain actions
will inevitably ensue, leads to their performance; half, and
only half conscious, the patient obeys the presumed will of his
magnetiser, and deems himself the while a passive agent im-
pelled by some power as irresistible as it is wonderful!
§ 568. In order to ascertain how far the usual effects would
ensue where the imagination, in a great measure, lay dormant,
it seemed desirable to seler.t persons who had never heard of
mesmerism, knew nothing of phrenology, and if they did know
what imagination meant, were at least not pwne to indulge in
its pleasures or suffer from its pains. Such persons are as com-
mon in our rural districts as they are rare amongst the more in-
telligent artizans of towns. Upon such I have made numerous
experiments, carefully avoiding everything that would occa-
sion alarm or in any way strongly excite imagination. In many
instances, nothing like the stated mesmeric or hypnotic effects
would ensue; the patient at length, in spite of remonstrance,
relieving his eyes by moving them about and winking, thus
breaking the spell. But after being thus foiled for an hour or
two, I have caused sleepiness in a few minutes by bringing the
mind into play by requesting a continuance of the experiment,
and giving a serious and earnest cg;surance that sleep would be
sure to ensue in a few minutes more. In many cases in which
there was before this intimation no apparent chance of such an
occurrence, this has happened. Occasionally this, too, failed.
I tried it with a rather timid little boy, aged nine years, who
gazed at me fot· a long time without winking or moving the
axis of his eyes. At length, irritated by the exposure, his eyes
filled with tears; still he gazed on, occasionally weeping, for
an hour. I then told him that he would be certain to fall
asleep in five minutes more; he gazed on for another half
hour, but was just as watchful (§ 2'23) as ever. Of course, I
had not sufficient of the occult principle to affect him mesmeri-
cally, but hypnotism ought to have done it.
§ 5GO. When a patient has been once thrown asleep, thence-
forth he knows what will happen, and in succeeding experi-
ments the results do happen in a far shorter period. He now
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 163
l~ts his eyelids dr~p on the first sensation of fatigue, and fancies
himself a<>leep whilst not unconscious and his will not inactive.
In this state (the magnetic somnambulism of itinerant lectu-
rers) ~e will hole~ ou~ an arm or leg, a finger or a hand, will
sometimes be_ar l?mchmg without shrinking; if his magnctiser
beckon, he w1ll follow, and the rest. On being aroused, he will
declare that he has been unconscious of all that has occurred.
A stout young rustic, full-grown, whom I had failed to hypno-
tise, after a trial of an hour and a half on a previous occasion,
on being assured that sleep would be certain to ensue in ten
minutes, within that time closed his eyes and breathed sono-
rously. He moved his hands the way he thought I wished, put
one up to his right eye to allay some slight uneasiness there,
and then settled himself comfortably in his chair. I now gently
raised his eyelids, which had not been closed for more than
three minutes. On this he supposed it was intended that he
should awake, and accordingly he got up. At first, he said he
thought he had slept; and after some deliberation, he became
quite sure that he had 1
He expected sleep with perfect faith,
and he believed that it came. Had he expected the occurrence
of any of the mesmeric wonders with equal faith, no doubt they
would have been performed, to the best of his ability, with
equal certainty. Had such a patient been acquainted with
what mesmerism is said to produce, or had he been at a public
lecture on mesmerism and heard all that its advocates usually
assert and declare with confidence to be true, and then wit-
nessed the usual phenomena of C'l.taleptic rigidity and insensi-
bility to pain, and following the leader, and singing when
asked, and dancing to music, and the rest, in a subject prepared
for the occasion, doubtlesa he would afterwards himself have
presented similar phenomena, though probably in less perfec-
tion ; and he would not merely assert to others, but himself
believe, that he was scarcely conscious, or not conscious at all,
whilst he did all this performance, and that he had done it
from some indescribable occult influence which he could not
resist.
§ 570. It is a curious fact in the philosophy of the mind,
how prone we are to voluntarily deceive ourselves, and then
firmly to believe in the self-created deception, as if it were a
truth not to be doubted. This is of daily occurrence where the
conclusion arrived at is desired from ministering to our plea-
sure, interest, or importance. Here, however, are cogent rea-
sons for cherishing the self-deception until it becomes a matter
of faith; but when no such reasons can be assigned, it is quite
enough that what demands our belief is marvellous, for it to be
received with eagerness; quite sufficient that a man persuade
himself what he has experienced must have happened without
his volition, for him to feel satisfied that it was quite beyond
164 HISTORY OF MESMERISM.
his control. Often, however, a person does not himself believe
what he wishes others to credit. So it usually is with the
originators of popular delusions ; but amongst their numerous
followers many really feel convinced of the truth of the doc-
trines they profess.
§ 571. That gentle passes, touches, and friction, should so act
on the nerves of feeling as to produce a quieting and composing
'f·ffect, and, if continued, a degree of somnolency, and perhaps
ultimately perfect sleep, is not surprising to one who has expe-
rienced the soothing influence of gentle ru!Jbing of the palms, or
of brushing or combing the hair. That this state may stop short
of deep sleep, and that during the imperfect slumber general
consciousness may be gone, and yet different parts of the nervous
system be still susceptible of acting in answer to impressions
made, is probable; and that acts of'various kinds might in this
way be called forth without rousing the patient to such general
consciousness as would be necessary to enable him to recollect
afterwards what had taken place, has nothing unreasonable in
it. Hence, when a feeling allied to pleasure is excited by the
gentle wafts of attracting mesmeric passes, (§ 548,) we can un-
derstand how an emotional movement may respond, and the
head or limb follow the direction of these wafts, (mesmeric
traction,) without enough of general consciousnes for the pa-
tien~ to be aware of what is going on. So, too, muscles may
become rigid by reflex movement from irritation of the sensi-
tive nerves; or convulsions may be excited in the same way,
(§ 551.)
§ 572. By unconsciously directing his mind to the part on
which the mesmeriser is operating, the patient, without being
aware of it at the time, may materially heighten sensibility
there, whilst the corresponding abstraction of mind lessens it
elsewhere, (§ 547.) As we know not all the laws of sensation,
we cannot limit the effects npon sensation of any agent which
certainly acts on and through the sensitive nerves. Conse-
quently, what in a slight degree can diminish sensibility,
may, when acting more forcibly, for anything we know, tem-
porarily abolish it. Judging from experience, such a result is
highly improbable, and therefore it must be proved a great
deal better than it is at present before we can assent to it, yet
still there is nothing in such a result that w0uld be in discord-
ance with previous facts. On the contrary, in certain morbid
states of the nervous system, we know that common sensibility
is for the time r moved; and should what the mesmerists as-
sert on this head ultimately prove true, it will simply be a new
fact,-not like most of the mesmeric facts,-both new and
irreconcilable with others.
§ 573. The evidence in support of so much in mesmerism
would have been sufficient, had it been presented without admix-
HISTORY OF MESMERISM. 165
ture with so large a proportion of what is calculated to throw
doubt _upo.n the ~hole. A wor.k on the Natural History of
Sleep 1s shll a des1dP.ratum, and 1f properly executed, it would
include all that is probable in mesmerism ; as it is, we want
unexceptiOnable evidence.
§57!. Should the probable facts of mesmerism prove to be
the only real ones, will they support the inferences of the mes-
merists? By no means. Capable of being induced by methods,
and under circumstances entirely different, they cannot depend
upon any special physical agent being given or withdrawn.
They resolve themselves into phenomena of the nervous sys-
tem, called forth by any means whatever, animate or inanimate,
that can act to a sufficient extent upon that system.
§ 575. We cannot doubt that mesmerism may have effected
many cures surprising enough to the patients and their friends.
What vaunted and accredited remedy or plan of treatment does
not? Its efficacy, in this respect, no more proves the reality
of any occult influence being communicated, than it proves the
presence of such influence in a hommopathic billionth of flour of
brimstone, in a holy well, or a Malvern spring. There can be
no doubt that in all chronic diseases, abstraction of the mind,
from perpetually dwelling on the disorder, a firm hope of reco-
very, and a complete faith in the value of the means employed,
will conduce very greatly to obtaining the desired result. The
nature of the mE>ans is of less importance. Every remedy or
plan that gains the confidence of the public is succe~sful in its
day: but no sooner is that day gone by, than the remedy loses
its efficacy-the talisman of cure is broken. The cases which
make and maintain the reputation of quacks of all ranks, both
within and without the pale of the profession, are chiefly the
dyspeptic, the bilious, the hypochondriacal. In these the dis-
order consists quite as much in a deranged nervous system, as
in any actual disease of a given organ. And knowing how much
the whole nervous system is under the influpnce of the mind
-how languid when the mind is depressed; how brisk when
the mind is elated-can we wonder that to exchange despon-
dency, want of confidence, and constantly looking inwards upon
self, for hope, implicit faith, and attention, maintained by
novelty, should occasionally produce the happiest effects on the
health? A medical man of eminence will often cure his pa-
tients much more rapidly, by precisely the 'same mean , than
another of inferior note. With the former, his reputation acid
upon the mind, whilst his remedies act upon the body. The
mode by which mesmerism has chiefly performed its cures,
reminds us of the weapon-salvers; the action on the mind is
the judicious attention to the wound; the pawing, thumbing,
ticlding, and gazing, are the salving of the weapon.
§ 576. Beaides its moral influence, however, in which I be-
166 HISTORY OF MESMERISM,
lieve its asserted remedial power principally consists, if by mes-
meric procedure we can induce. refreshing sleep and mod~fy
sensibility, there can be no quesbon but by these, added to 1t9
effect on the mind, much good may sometimes have been done,
Has mesmerism any peculiar advantages over other and less
equivocal and less mystical modes of producing these advan-
tages? Proofs are yet wanting that it is superior to more ordi-
n.;:-ry methods of influencing the mind and the body-methods
more congenial to the habits' of the profession, and generally to
the taste of the patient.
§ 577. Without supposing or desiring that any importance
will be attached to my mere opinions, yet, to prevent misappre-
hension, I here briefly recapitulate what are at present rny own
views on mesmerism. Of the alleged results of mesmeric pro-
cesses, I believe there are
Proved-Quietude ; composure; sleep.
Probable, but requiring confirmation-Traction; muscular
rigidity; convulsions; heightened sensibility; diminished
sensibility; doulile consciousness.
Possible, but not very probable-Insensibility to severe pain,
for a given length of time, at pleasure.
Impossible, as far as anything can be so-Clairvoyance; in-
tuition; prevision ; community of thought ; involuntary
and complete subjection of mind to the mesmeriser.
And, lastly, I believe that we have not a shadow of evidence
in support of the existence of any new agency, whether
designated mesmeric, magnetic, occult, or uy any other
name.
In concluding this survey of mesmerism, the writer trusts
that his readers have been as little as possible wearied with the
details, and impatient of the truisms, contained in the foregoing
pages. The details were indispensable to furnish accurate
data; and inferences when opposed to, are best refuted by,
truths so trite as to appear self-evident and superfluous. Com-
mon truths are the basis of common sense ; and common sense
will best refute the mesmerism of the mesmerists. Had an
abler writer taken the troublfl to lay bare the facts and the
principles of mesmerism, to expose the emptiness of the former,
the absurdity of the latter, and the incongruity of both, the pre-
sent attempt had never appeared. Independently of every
other effect, the i.."lquiry is calculated to impress upon the
minds of the members of the profession the truth that-
" Our reason was not vainly lent !
Nor is a slave Jmt by its own consent."-DRYDEN.
FINIS,
