{"name":"Wonderful Prophecies","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1795__brothers___wonderful_prophecies____3rd_ed.pdf","mytitle":"Wonderful Prophecies","mylang":"de"}
lb-i ,
l .
WONDERFUL PROPHECZESZ iſ;
\
BElNG A
plss-ERTATLON m-w -'
EZISTENQE, NTTJZZ, run 'EXTENT ' ſ
PROPHETIC POWERS
HUMAN MIND; ' -
WITH UNVIESTIONABLE EXAMPLES
OF SEVERA'F
EMINENT PRQPHECIES, *
qr WHAT xs now gappe, AND soon; TO an rownen,
UPDN Till
GREAT THEATRE QF EUROPE.
PARTLCULZQLLY ruqze, WQRTHY at nonce,
BY RlCHARD BKOTHERS,
And a remarkable Prophecy of D_R. SMOLLET, juﬅ before his,
Death; alſo others, never before made public, by DANIEL
DEFOE, JAMES LAMBERT, MARTHA ERY, and
HANNAH GREEN. *
To which are added,v ſeleQed from the moﬅ authetitic Authors,
THOSE OF '
Dr. Goldſmith, Dr. Prieﬅley, Abbe Raynal,
Dr. john Harvey, h_l'_l Laey. Counteſs of York,
Michael Noﬅrodamus, ſdh'n Maximilian Daut, St. Thomas a Becket,
William Lilly, ' . Rev. Mr. johrctr'Wilſon Dr. Sibly,
Anne Trapnel, Biſhop Newto'n, Barclay, '
Mr. Lo'vc. , Baron Swedenb'ourg, Dr'. Gideon Harvey,
john Tillinghaﬁ, Dr. Hoan, '* " ct' - Brarlwarain,
Peter Jurieu, Hannibal, A'uguſtu'ſi the Roman
Sc'h Duwin, King James V. Emperor,
Robert Nixon, Alexander the Great. Crcſus.
Robert Flemming, Thomas wanton,
The THIRD nmnon, corrected and conſiderably enlarged.
LO NDON:
'un-run or a. urcuu,
P'l I. clean, no. 4, afar-troth" count, Lun'ATl_'tIl-IT
. .
'795
Sir Chriﬅopher Wren. _
'
l,
'1
a
't -,.
'in
-
_
.
O
.
I l
.
\
r I
. .
ſ'
I A
.
\
' e
..
I
'l '
ſ '
e I
' { b
' 't
- -
'
'
O
p
.. - \.
l
Y'
.
"£)LL
a.
- 'I v.
.' '
V"
K' '4.
a
'e- _
'
-
"
'r
_ -
' \
-_ ' A .
O e '
O
**'*' 'ow- *.
'P
' '
n
l
o -
c
\.
lvu
.
i d
a
' '
.
1'
'
q
o I
'
n
I
' a
5
'
I
.
.
-
. ,'
e
'a
*' '
i. .
'
s
u 'I
e' e.
' 0. .'I'
*'
'
'
n
aſ.
I)
I.
'
.
o
o
-
.\
"'
'll
v'
. -'
.".{ 'i
'I
**-'I I.
n- _
',-*'
'
\
I
'
_, '.* '
-' ' 'I 5
n
'T
t' )
.. A £ o
a
'I
A'
' 'l'
l
' )
t' '4. '
4 i i
o ' 'A
" I _
-J 't
'
q- -
a
'
'
'
o ' '
\
.'
---x.;
ſ'- l
.I '
'A*II']A.'
.
'
\ I 'K'
I '
"p I.
c'. 'l
l
\ '
_
ſ
a
I
. _1.- v
'
' l
..
t ,/
tI '
IA'. .
na) .
a
. l
\
\
I
I.
' -
U
\
O
-
0
I' a'
\'
J I
\ '
4
'i' d
\ '
.
'
n
e
o
, .
'
> \ e
\ r
w
'
u
'
_l
' e
p
x
'
'
I. .
4
1
'
Q 'n'a
p
r
l
-
z
_
.
a
-_-_-
it.
an'
_ 7 .-, ﬁvi
'4.
ADYEKPISEMLNTLLF'_' .£ 1
'h l
' " t'-' " l Ir_
zl-
,,
c..
'THE wonderful eﬀects of inſpiration and 'pre
icience in prophecy, waking and ſleeping viſions;
and other communications of the divine will
and knowledge, being now the awſul ſubject of
public enquiry and curioſity, we moﬁ; reſpect
fullj' preſent the ſubjects of the ſubſequent pages
to _ the general community. The tremendous
events that have lately happened in kingdoms,
&e. and thoſe with which the wofnb of time is
teeming, has induced uS to make all the poſſit
ble reſearches in the moﬅ valuable and authentic
authors. In this part of our labours, we truﬅ
'that every reader will ﬁnd ſuch irreſiﬂible teﬅi
mony, from the v'reinarkable viſibns, propheſies;
m. related here nith ﬁdelity, um he will be
' tonﬁrmed
0 iv)
conﬁrmed in the univerſal providence of heaveng
' and that the Creator of All is inceſſantly. prepuce
ing human nature iby' his choſen inſpired, and
other as wonderful _mean_s:_ to apprti man of:
impending*evil,- o'r approaching-Proſperity. With - _
this aſſurance, it is hoped mankind will'liﬅen with
faith and reverence to the eomtnunicaions of the
'
I," \
Divine Being.
J
' ' ' ' ' r v v
l r' ' - -' ' I'
. s, a A ' t A' ' 1 3.- 1 . J . Au'ſ \-4 d
e
\ ' I
ſ U'
* - 'a q '* ' ' r * 7 '\* 0 r'- a -\ 'I
l )-.]A U' ' I [A I' ' ſ ' . I. a I 4 e
l a i 1
' ' j * ' '
t Q 'I ' '. ' -a - t' . \
e 'I t i I ) 3.) ,' lpſ i 11.), I, ) . U
ll
i _ ' ' t ſ
t q ' 0 o l
, a 'il-"ed ' U ' gl' ""' 1 c _' ' , I
-; I
p: - 'in ' n' ' a - ' ' 4- . * .
i ' ' ' ' 0 '
0., '1 ..;*- at 'ill 1' osj) l. ' '1 I' 1)
a ' a
, , . . '- ' 'X I. z , I t , . '_ . , z' ,
i _H'.I 'a I 'an J'1J a } a - U .J o t' . , _ .
' a. O w O Y l
I
'1 r
's hc. 4 g ' a. o I
e: A. 1 1 '- '1. . 0 ) a l- 4 \ I
' r ſ ' '
a - ' . * . 'I
.-II "' -]. a. a 4 a i' ' 'I ' .. in? 8 14' '
. , 'ſ r ' ſ '3
' l ' . 'ſ ſ a , a
'i . TT - .1 l o A. L -. . _._'
' \
aſ' ſ l l '
*' ' - ' an' A 7
B*ldli ' in' l Lot' - ', '.') I' I l 1
A
'A ' "' A \ a" [I d
. 0 .. A' - a . - v n- -o J I 'A J
- \' V
' ſ
. 1 3. ' l ſ I \, ſ
z _,_ ' 3 I [a I AJ 113. 04 4 I'L 0 --'
ſi \
I' ' '
" * ' ' ' o ' e r] a ) ﬁr, 3 -
'- l a I -' I 1' 1 A '\ 4 -' a o
- : t . - ' a -- - H .
iſaa I (- 'l _'o ' l. 3- At. I 'eld
, r ' ' i t .'
.*' ,' 1 ' r' " - a'
a I '. l w'- ' I '4 A 'du 14.- 'aid Will ')**"
A '
I' A" 3 K
mld-'1 1..14)
, ' '\'
' '
I
l
1 ' *
\ I
, r
' m.
/ 1 .
\ t
Þ ſ
'A
* . e l
I "I
. J;
i___, -- -w A- M- *-**" w
L 5 ]
DISSERTATI-ON
\
ON THE
PROPHETIC POWERS ſſOF THE HUIVJN AIIND.
,.
/
THE-Almighty Creator-of the World, to ma
nifeﬅ his provident and benevolent care of his
creatures, and to leave them without excuſe for
their diﬅruﬅ of'his guardianſhip, 'has not only ſur
niſhed them With a particular, but alſo with a ge
neral and conﬅant,_'revelation of his divine will and
diſpenſations. This ſuPernatural communication of
the Godhead With man is that ſpirit of- propheſy
with whiCh certain individuals have ever been en
dowed in all nations. *The'Scriptures' evince, that '
this propheticfpower was not conﬁned either-"to the
Jews or to any'ot'h'er particular rank, age; ſex, or
condition._of men. Jews, and.Gentiles, noble-and
ignoble', learned and ignorant," 'have been occaſion- *
* ally choſen' by the all-wiſe- Governor of' ſithe uni
verſe to warn the' guilty, conſOIe the aﬄicted', "and
conﬁrm the'dubious, with prOphetic views of futuſi
rity. Theſe'hchoſeiirveﬀels; 'being ﬁlled with the'
divine eman'at'io'n's 'of preſcience, ſiiſſued forth and
made known' to' ſhe People their celeﬅial miﬃ'on;
either by theeking them with' the" glad tidings of t
approaching felicity,'*or 'Warning them, and their
governors, with the proſpect of diﬅant or impend
ing niisfortune, Thus we find that all thoſe remark
able eventsﬀhatſiwere deﬅined to aggrandize, pu
> B ni ,
't 63]
niſh, deﬅroy, or diſperſe,'that bigotted and un- '
grateful people, the Jews, were regularly foretold
by their ſoothſayers and prophets.
To doubt of the truth and reality of the antient .
i Propheſies, would be to fap the. very foundation of
religion, and to reject the univerſally concurring
"eſtiniony of ancient hiﬅory. John Tillinghaﬅ, who
was himſelf inſpired, obſerves, " It is a moﬅ cer- -
tain truth, that every propheſy,_left us in the Word
of God, hath, in itſelf, ſuﬃcient characters to leadv
us, by comparing thecharacters of it with the mind
of God in iother propheſies, to the knowledge of
the ſubﬅance of that_truth that is in it held forth 3
for otherwiſe the word ſhould be imperfect, and not
able to expound itſelf," and "that, as thoſe cha
racters of truth, left 'us in the naked letter of the
text, are the moﬅ certain rule to' follow, to 'ﬁnd the
mind-of' the Holy Ghoﬅ in propheﬁes, ſo walking
' by that rule, Daniel's. little horn is and can be no
other-than the whole body of vtheRomi-ſh Anti
chriﬅ." Dan. xi: 41, 42, 43. Chap. vii.-'i Tim. ivg
l,,-2, . _. ſ. ' X 7 i
Thcsprophetic'ſpirit hath continued to theſe latter'
ages: even the preſerit age has aﬀorded perſons diſ
tinguiſhed for the divine gift of natural preſcienceſiſ v
That ſuch a power'has exiﬅed, the-moﬅlearned
mon have acknowledged. diﬅinguiſhed charac
ter in the law * thus candidlyjexpreſſes hlS ſ_e_1_1t1'-)
ments onthe ſubject, .*,_',. '1/'0 deny the poſſibility',
nay actual exiﬅence, of wrtchcraft and ſorcery, lS at
once ﬂatly to contradict the revealeſidword of God
,_ 1, *, * .- A ' _.
'- Juﬅice Blackſione. Comment. volzivſz p._60. e
in
'v .
[7]
in various paſſages both of the Old and New Teﬅa
ment: and the thing itſelf is a truth to which every
nation in the world hath, in its turn, borne teﬅi
'mony, either by examples ſeemingly well atteﬅed,
or by prohibitory laws; which, at leaﬅ, ſuppOſethc
poſſibility of a commcrce with evil ſpiritSL'Z If,
therefore, evil ſpirits have the power of giving the
knowledge of futurity to their devotees, ſurely the
Almighty muﬅ be able to confer this power on his
elect inctthe moﬅ conſummate purity and perfec-_
tion. The celebrated Mr. Addiſon, in his Specta
tors, No. 117, acknowledges his belief of Petſons
being ehddwed with preſaging powers.
_ As the nature of the human mind hath 'been
ever the ſame, from the creation, its capacity and
aptitude to receive the divine impulſe muﬅ be as'
great, at this moment, as in the moﬅ early ages of
the world; and as the benign Author and Gover
nor of the univerſev has ever imparted it to his
* choſen, to be lights and guides to mankind: in the
' wilds of error and impending diﬃculties and dan
gers, ſo we are led to hope that ſimilar ſituations
and circumﬅances will be attended with the ſame
beniﬁcent advantages. Surely the Almighty muﬅ,
ſſbe ſenﬁble that man, in this vale of obliv10us dark
neſs, has now equal neceﬃty to receive the illumi
nations othis inﬁnite wiſdom, as at any other peſi
riod of his creation. Were he to withdraw thoſe
rays Of beneﬁcent preſcience,. which guided the
ways of our fore-fathers in the paths of virtue and
cheering promiſe, man mi htfplead that he was ne
ceſſarily more prone to evﬁ, torn being leſt undi
_rected, uncheered, and unconﬁrmed in the ways -
thich lead to truth and happineſs.
N B 2 ſſ The
2
' [3]
The riſe, continuance, and deﬅruction o'ſ the Aſſy
rian, Median, Perſian, and Roman Empires, were
predicted. Thoſe meaſures that tended to prolong
poﬅerity, or accelerate their downſal, were ſore
ſhewn. But their hearts were hardened, and th'eir
attention diverted from the proſpect of future viciſ
ſitude, by the proſperity they were then poſſeſſing.
They diſregarded the warning voice until ad
verſity diſpelled their intoxication, and left them,
too late, convinced of the truth, and their own neg_ .
ligence. The fruitleſs ſenſe of their own miſery
Was the criſis and conſequence oſ their being con;
vinced of the truth of the prophetic admonitions
they had received. ,
The unconquerable obﬅinacy of the Jews, who,
although more particularly favoured by the cares of
Providence, and who had witneſſed the completion
of more propheſies-than any nation under heaven,
not only ﬂighted the predictions of the birth of the
Meﬃah, but even rejected the immediate teﬅimony
of their ſenſes to the divine truth and reality oſ his
miracles. ,
We arc here ſpeaking of the direct: and imme
diate inﬂuence of the unerring ſpirit upon the hu
man mind, which, by a forcible impulſe, turns its
view towards futurity, and imparts to it an intuitive
knowledge of ſucceeding events, as far as they re
late to certain particular tranſitctions, Providence
thinks expedient to have revealed. But whether,
the natural weakneſs of'the 'human intellect being
incapableof comprehending (in its full excent and
energy) the divine light,ſior that, conformably to
the' ſyﬅem of ſubor'dinate nature, ſomething
muﬅ be left to exerciſe human ſagacity; the ſacts
are often repreſented in a manner dubious ancſl ob
cure.
1an
lief;
[his {
[ 9 ]
ſcure. Metaphorical ideas and ſimilitudes are ob
truded upon the mind, blended with literal repre
ſentations. The apoﬅle, St. Peter, ſays of propheſy, .
--" That 'it is a light ſhining in a dark place; and
we do well to give heed to it until the day dawn."
This biſhop Sherlock thus explains: " The time
will come when the things ye hope for ſhall be
placed in a clear light, when you ſhall ſee all your
expectations fully juﬅiﬁed in the accompliſhment;
in the mean time, ye do well to attend to propheſy,
though but a ſmall glimmering 'light and ſhining at
a diﬅance in a dark place, yet the beﬅ you have or
can have at preſent." This gift then is beﬅowed
upon mankind, not as a reſource for the abſolute
prevention of the evil foretold, but as a guide to
ſuch as are wiſe enough to embrace it towards the
mitigation - of calamity, according to the imperfect:
ﬅate of human nature.
The greater part of the propheſies, recOrded in
the Old Teﬅament, reſpecting the Jews in p'articue
lar, and other nations in general, were fulﬁlled at
the redemption. At that glorious and awful con'
juncture, when the Son of God, at the command of
his father, oﬀered himſelf up as a willing ſacrifice
to atone for the ﬁns of men of all nations, and to
inſure eternal ſalvation to all mankind, the Spirit
. of God deſcended in fuller meaſure, and upon a
greater number of the ſons of men, of all nations,
'than at any former period. Then it Was that; not'
only the fate 0'f empites and kingdoms, the diﬅrac
tions on account of religibn, and the ſuﬀerings of
the faithful, were foretold, but alſo the duration of '
this globe itſelfwas preﬁgured ; the ﬁnal diſſolution
of which is to be preceded by the glorious Milleni
um,
[Io]
ut'nh or reign; of Jeſus Chriﬅ upon earth for a
thouſand years. -
The Revelations, as expounded by the' ableﬅ and
ſoundeﬅ divines, teach us to expect, about this
time, the deﬅruction of theTurkiſh empire, and
the gathering together, ſettlement, and conVerſion
of the Jews. For God has declared he will yet re
member his choſen people in his good time.
* Since the apoﬅolic age, although miracles have -
ceaſed, we have yet experienced the moﬅ indubita
ble proofs of the occaſional inﬂuence of the ſpirit
of propheſy. Many recent propheſtes having been
accurately completed, leave us no poſſible vdoubt of
its continuance in the preſent 'time 3 which ſeems
teeming with ſuch direful events as truly require
ſupernatural light and information. 4 '
- Theſi coming of the impoﬅor, Mahomed, was
preciſely foretold both by the early Chriﬅians and
the Brachmans of India.
As to the mode of propheſy operating upon the
human mind, it appears to be an impulſe entirely
external. The prophetic infuſion is involuntary,
unſought, and, perhaps, not 'underﬅood by the de
liverer. Thus the Prophet Daniel, after a viſion
which' he had ſeen, ſaith-" I heard, but I under
ﬅood not: then ſaid I, O my Lord! what ſhall be
the end oftheſe things? And he ſaid, " Go thy way,
Daniel; for the words are cloſed Up andctſealed till
_the time ofend." The minds even ofidiots and mad
men have been inﬅantaneouſly endowed with the
gift of propheſy, as various hiﬅories teﬅify. Nixon,
the Cheſhire Prophet, and Martha Ery, of Suﬀolk,
are of thjs remarkable inﬅances. ' 3
Dreams have alſo been ever conſidered. as a ſe
condarykind of'" inſpiration, and as a mode uſually
" ' adopted
,[11-]
adopted by" the' father pf ſpirits to convey intelli
gence of good or evil import. Thus, we read of
numberleſs prophetic dreams in the antient hiﬅo
ries, ſacredfand profane. Alexander the GreatT,
before'he leſt Macedonia, ſaw in a dream the image
of Jaddua, 'the High Prieﬅ iof the Jews, in his
pontiﬁcal robes, and upon his head the Tiara,'
whereon was engraven, in golden letters, the name>
of Jehovahu' When, afterwards on his march to
Wards Jeruſalem, the High Prieﬅ came out to meet
him, the King, inﬅantly-recognizing theſivenerable'
perſonage who had apþeared to him in his dream;
proﬅrated 'himſelf and worſhipped the God of the'
Hebrews; \ A < - J a i
Withj-reſPect to periods nearer our-own times,
vthere is a well-authenticatedi account, that, in tſihe
reign of Charles' the Firﬅ, the apparition of old
Sir Geor e Villiers, deceaſed, preſented itſelf, in a.
dream, er three ſucceſiive nights to the imagina
7 tion Of a man of the name of Parker, commanding
him to go toctthe Duke of Buckingham, with tide
ings of 'his 'approaching end, and the conditionsort
which it might be avaided 5 but, theſe being neglect
ed by the Duke, Felton murdered him about ﬁx
months- afterwards. ->Sir Clement Throckmortonﬁ
alſo dreamed- an aſſaﬃnſiwould kill his Grace, of
which-he gave him intimationa -
The ſentiments here entertained reſpecting the
prophetic nature of particular dreams, will be teﬅi
*" Gen. 20. 3; 31. 34; 19, &c. 1.Kings, 3. 5, is; Maid,
zo;.2, 13. _
't Josephhs. - þ- . -
I Clarendon's Hiﬅ. Vol. I. 5 Rclique Wootton 144.:
,
' ﬁed
:i' i But),
ﬁed by almoﬅ every perſon's own experience. For;
few there are who cannot recollect inﬅances of vi
ſions, or proſpects of future events, being preſented
to their minds while aſleep, which they afterwards
found veriﬁed. Thus the occaſional exiﬅence of a
_ prophetic power in the human tﬁind ſeems to ﬁnd
a proof in the general experience of mankind, nor
can it be otherwiſe. r '
This power muﬅ proceed, by immediate im
pulſe, from the univerſal ſource of intellectual inu
ſtelligence; The great father of ſpirits muﬅ cauſe
this portion of preſcience to emanate from himſelf,
and to ﬁll the choſen perſon with the prophetic
power. For it is well known the ſoul of man poſſeſſes
not, enerally and abſolutely, the faculty of ſeeing
into Elturity. Even thoſe ſelect ſervants of God, the
old Prophets, were not always inſpired: they only
ſpoke of 'future events at particular times, and on
momentous occaſions.
- 7 There is alſo this farther analogy between oral
vpredictions, and thoſe prophetic images preſented
trothe mind whilﬅ the body is in the arms of ſleep,
that, in ſome particular caſes, in both modes, the
facts are. foretold literally and exactly as they are to
happen;'yet,1more generally, the intelligence is
'conveyed in allegoric hints and equivocal ﬁgures,
which, although not the leſs certain.in their ten
dency to'the general end, require ſkill and judg- .
ment in the' interpretation. Thus, in dreams and _,
in the prophetic language, great and violent changes
mdrrevolutions, in kingdoms A and ﬅates', 'are
a frequently repreſented by earthquakes, ﬅorms,,
ﬂoods, or conﬂagr'tions 5 and the higher powers on
earth.
[13]
earth, by theſſheavenly bodies, or by the powerftil
This eguivocation and uncertainty,
kind f beaﬅs.
. in the enor of prophetic warnings, may, perhaps,
be deſi ed by the Almighty to bear relation or com
cidence with the natural and inherent free agency of
the human mind. When the information is not direct
and ahſolute to the point,' men may, by' a prudent
uſe of that portion of light aﬀorded them, avoid
the threatening danger, or 'obtain the proﬀered
bleſiing. Theſe reſources are generallypreſented to
the mind in times of trouble and agitation, or ra
ther'when at our eaſe and no danger apparently
nigh. We are apf to diſregard all'admonitton, as *
-'kingdom-s and ﬅates in the height of proſperity
proceed in their full career ofwickedneſs, regardleſs
of thoſe threats of vengeance denounced againﬅ
them, ctuntil the proſpect. blackens, and' the 'bolts
be levelled at their guilty heads.
The followingremarkable dream of the celebrat- i
ed Daniel Defoe, author of Robinfon Cruſoe and
other ingenious works, muﬅ convinc'e every ra-
tional, conſiderate perſon, of dreams being uſed by
the Divinity as the means ſof warning from danger,
or apprizing of ſome approaching felicity. ,
Mr. Detoe having incurred the cenſure of
the Houſe of. Commons, On , account of ſome
pamphlet which he had publiſhed, thought proper
to withdraw himſelf from London, to avoid being
\
apprehended. But being obliged to return to town V
upon particular buſineſs, he determined to go on a
certain day. Being in bed with his, brother-in-law
the night before, he dreamt that he was in his lodg
ings in London, and that two men came to the dodr,,- '
ſaying they' were meſſengers, while they produced a
warrant ct from the Secretary of State to apprehend
, C him.
\ _ [ 14 ]
him. They accordinle ſeized and took him. The
viſion Waking him, he inﬅantly waked his brother,
to whom he related 'his dream. He afterwards went
ſi again to ſleep, from which he was awakened by the
ſame dream, exactly in every particular 'as before.
'In deﬁance to theſe plain and obvious warnings, his
buſineſs being urgent, he ſet out for London in the
ſimorning. To avoid every danger of ſurpriſe, he
uſed every precaution in his manner of travelling
to town. He ﬅill felt a ﬅrong foreboding appre- '
henſion and heavineſs during his journey, and had
once or twice reſolved to return back to his brother
in-law. But he withﬅood hisfears and'perſiﬅpd,
-and the reſuld'was, that he was taken by the meſ
ſengers exactly in the ſame' manner as had been'pre
viouſly ſhewn to'him in his dreams. The viſion
had been ſo fOrcibly i'mpreſſed upon his. imagination,
that he recollected the 'very countenance, cloaths,
and. weapons of the two men.
ſi We muﬅ not omit to notice here an inferior ſpe
cies of Propheſy, or rather an acquired inſight into
futurity, poſſeſſed by 'meneminent for a ſupe
riority of mental pOwersſforvtranſcendent wiſdom,
and great experiencein-the World. Such men,
aided by their'high endoviments, have, in all' afges of
the world, made their predictions from the general
aſpect of things, and 'from their knowledge of the
neceſſary' relation between' Cauſe and eﬀdct, * Their
predictions are, therefore, ever entitled to' the re
ſpectſul attention of mankind. Of' this we ſhall
oﬀer the beﬅ proof,_b'y 'adjducing ſeveral late in
ﬅances,-_in 'which'tlie predictions 'were 'fully and
literallyhonﬁr'med b 7 the event; As to Propheſi'es
in general, -thi's'con_1derat_ion will be our beﬅ guide
' for the degree of credit and attention they meriti)
' ' ' - "' - T is
\
E 'is 1: ,
This' ſeems to be the.awful moment when perſons.
at all religious and profeſſions are Waiting the im-_ *
portant events, which the ſilate politicaland religiousv
viciﬃtudes leadall to imagine 'are ſiimþending" over,
the. human race, The judgements of God areal;
ready begun. The vials of wrath are po'uring out A
on the guilty- and thedevoted. VVoes and calarni-z
ties hang ſuſpended over. the heads oſ the world.
It is, therefored'ow the time to meditate 'on the
antient pvtopheſies of the ſacred ſcripture. The dip,"
vine apocalypſe ,in__pa:r,ſiticular. is aﬃrmed, by thoſe
men who are moﬅ eminent For. deep knowledge' in
holy writ', to contain the, ſeries. of_ all remarkable
events and changes 'that are to hapſipen to the end of
the world. lt is nowſi thetimeto attend alſo'ſo
lemnly and ſeriouſly to 1'thoſe occaſional manifeﬅa
tions of the divine ſpirit which every age has' aﬀord-3
ed. And the opinions of thoſe greatſiandhemine'nt
men, who are =ſo ﬅudiouﬂy and diligently watching
over our temporal and eternal welſare, we ought
to treat with' conﬁdence arid reverence. ._ _ t' .
That time 'is now pregnant with the greateſt
events in politics andteligion, is t0ct0 obvious, ſrom_
viciſiitudes which'have lately attended goſivernments
and kingdoms, to be' diſputed. Thus; agreeably
to the language' of 'propheſy, the moﬅ important
of ev'ents areto happen before the conſummation
of all_thing's, And this is the period which Provi
dence ſeems to have allotted as immediately p're
ceding the fulﬁllirzg of thoſe awful ſcriptural pro
plieſies that have or ages engaged the 'wiſeﬅ and
moﬅ learned of men to explain. _- That the ſcrip
tures muﬅ be fulﬁlled; none but the moﬅ abandon
ed inﬁdels will diſpute. A late biſhop zoſ Briﬅol,
in his Diſſertations on Scripture Propheſies, has p'
C 2 _ - ſurpaſſed
[15]
ſurpaſſed every modern Writel' in demonﬅrating
the truth and ſulſilme'nt of this preſcient principle. ,
The ſame ſpirit which inſpired the ſcripture pro
phets can ſurely diſpenſe the ſame power to any
vether perſon. It can never be ſuppoſed 'that the
moﬅ ſublime, awſul, and intereﬅin paſſages con
tained in the ſacred depoſitory of_ aﬀ faith and reli
gion, ſhould remain, at any period oſ time, with
out its choſen and inſpired interpkters. For if re
ligion is eſſential _to_ 'the happineſs of all mankind,
zit is contrary to every principle of divine juﬅice
and goodneſs, that We ſhould ever be leſt without
iome 'choſen guide in paths of myﬅery and perplexz
ity, where our eternal ſalvation depends on the
cleareﬅ knowledge of divine promiſe and propheſy.
And in proportion to the aﬀairs of nations, the
ſtate of religion, and the alarming events, involving.
all mankind in the ſate of impending calamities or
£pr0ſperity, it is moﬅ rational to expect that the Al- _
mighty will inſpire ſome choſen perſon to illuminate
v futurity with the rays of truth. This being a time
the moﬅ momentous, that the hiﬅory of na
tions aﬀor'ds, ſome prophet may be natural.
ly expected to ariſe for the guidance of man
thrdtigh this maZe of awſul, impending fatality.
The perſon who ſeems to claim, at preſent, the moﬅ
faith and attention, as an exiﬅmg prophet, is '
Richard Brothers, who has in a moﬅ candid, unre
ſerved,and intereﬁing manner, publiſhed to the
world his Interpretations of Scripture Prophets, and
his Predictionsrelative to the fate of Emperors,
Kings, Princes, Miniﬅers, Ern ires, Kingdoms,
and even oſ what awaits ſo'me di inguiſhed indivi
duals. He has been viſited by the pious, and the
learned, who have all heard with aﬅoniſhment the'
appearance
' [ I7 l .
appearance of irreſiﬅible truth with which his pre
_ dictions are uttered. The unaﬂhmed modeﬅy of
the man, the placidity and benevolence of his ctum
tenance, and'the-_ temperate habits of his life, have
gained the general veneration of thoſe who have
been to viſit this extraordinary character. We ſhall,
therefore, commence our hiﬅory of the-moﬅ re
'markable perſons'who haVC uttered predictive ſett
timents, with thoſe oſ *
RICHARD BROTHERS,
He begins with obſerving, " As the ſcripture is
the only great fountain of knowledge, or book oſ
written truth, inﬀthe world; as it contains the ſacred
records of thoſe things which God has pre-dete'n
minedſhall be hereafter, as well as thoſe which
have been already 3 and as it contains the hiﬅory oſ
our own creation, with that of every living thing
beſides, It alone, in preference to any, man's, ought
to be, without the leaﬅ doubt, freely believed and
conﬁdently depended on. '
' " While war continues in the World, Jeruſalem,
the capital of the King of Peace, is decreed to lie
deſolate: the reﬅoration of the Jews will commence
with the deﬅruction of war, to favour their return,
and. build the city 5 when all nations will rejoice
with them, and once more receive from Jeruſalem
the commands of the living God."
After expounding the Prophets, Daniel, Iſaiah,
Zechariah, he obſerves--*' Days are mentioned by
the Angel, inﬅead of years, to conceal the myﬅery
of the propheſy until the proper time, and the ap
' 'pointed
[18]
oin'ted' peilbn for it to be reveaIed to: the preſentv
is the time that was then intended; I am the ap
pointed perſon for it to be revealed to, and the pro
phet commanded to make it known." .
- He ſays' that the' JCWS-r will return to Jeruſalbm in
the 'yeareſ-Chriﬅ 1798 ;' and that the Turks. are
'deſcended from Eſ'au, the brother of Jacob; b'ut
their emperor and all his family are deſcended from
Jonarhan, the ſon'of Saul, King of Iſrael. ſ' Told
me by revelation." * 1
, According to him, " When the armies invade
the land of Iſrael, it will be with areſolution to
' ſeize on every moveable thing, and deﬅroy the peo
p'le; the Jews then acknowledging the NIeﬃah as
God, will believe under an exceſs of grief vthat he
was crueiſied; ſenſible of their perilous condition,
and knowing that it is he only can ſave them, they
will, every man- and family, implore him for com
paſſion and deliverance. The Hebrews will be de
livered, and the Heathens entirely deﬅroyed."
The great prophet alluded to in the 4th chapter
of Malachi, he ſays " is the ſame that will be re
vealed to the Jews, to order their return to Jeruſa
lem before the expiration of 1798 ; he will poſſeſs
the Spirit of God and the power of ﬁre equal to
Elijah; he will make known the judgments of_God,
that all nations may be beneﬁted, and may endea
vour to ſurvive them when they are commanded to
be fulﬁlled." " The alterations I have made in '
copying ſome of the propheſies, is by the direction,
and command of the ord God." -
THE JUDGMENTS OF, GOD.
" The very loud and unuſual kind of thunder
that Was heard in the beginning of January, 1791.
' was,"
l 19 'I
was," he ﬅates, " the voice of the angel mention
ed in the 18th chapter of Revelation, proclaiming
the judgment of God, and the fall of Babylon the
reat." ' r ' . " .
" The great ﬂaſhes of lightning 'proceeded alſo
from the angel, and was, according to the ﬁrﬅ
verſe, reﬂected from the brightneſs of his glory."
The following is a moﬅ curious account which he
gives of his immediate communications and inﬂu
ence with the Divinity, and' the manner i-n'which,
he ſays, he 'has interſer-ed in favour of ſeveral popu
lar and diﬅinguiſhed characters. _
" The Lord-'God was ſo exceedingly angryat
the time of the loudthunder, I have mentioned in
thepreceding part, that he determined to leave his
other judgments unfulﬁlled, relative to London,
and burn her immediately-with fire from heaven:
ſoon afterwards I'was informed, by revelation, of
what the-'thunder meant, and was commanded to
go from'LondOn beyond the diﬅance of eighteen
miles. ,I had, ſimilar to the' Prophet Daniel at Ba
bylon, an attending angel to explain all the viſions,
and ſupport me under the grief' I-was loaded with
for its approaching fall. - - .
" The Lord God knowing-thatlloved himwith
all my heart, andhad oftdn reﬁﬅed the calls of
hunger and Idiﬅreſs, rather 'than comply with cuſ
toms that' would oﬀend' him, 'pitied-me;- for I-had'
beſeeched h' to let me inform the people-of Lon- ,
don of theiimdanger, and try by all poſſible means
to ſave 'them ;- but was refuſed --permiﬃ.on, becauſe
they would imp'riſon and uſe me very ill for it.
" In" addition to all that 'God had promiſedand
repeated by his angel to make'me happy, he was'
now pleaſed to give me another proof of his unal
'terable
£,2o]
terable regard, and convince me by that, although he
could not, injuﬅice to his recorded judgment, ſpare
London, yet, fer my ſake, he would ſhew mercy to
ſome; and take Care," by ſickneſs and other cauſes,
ton-move the perſons I deſired ſhould be ſaved to a
ſuﬃcient diﬅance beyond the limits to be deﬅroyed
and ſunk.
" After thanking the Lord God, I mentioned ſe
veral, both men and women, and called the reſi
membrance of his mercy to others, whoſe names I
did not know, but pointed them out in my mind.
" Among thoſe I mentioned was XVilliam Pult
ney, William Pitt, Gilbert Elliot, Charles Grey,
the Earl of Buckinghamſhire, the Marquis of I_.anſ-'
down, the Earl of Chatham, Maitland, now called
Earl of Lauderdale, Henry Phipps, forI remem
bered his brother to have done me an act of friend
ſhip; John Dalrymple, john Griﬃn Griﬃn, Al
' derman Pickett, becauſe that, during his mayoralty
he oppoſed, by a public advertiſement, the fre
quency of taking oaths; in doing ſo, he honoured
that all-remembering God Who Will, in due time.
as publicly henou'r him for it. Wilberforce, Baſ
tard, Sheridan, Philip Stephens, Charles Fox, John
Luke, a poor Maker; Samuel Hood, the King and
his family, for they were to be gathered in London;
Ponſonby, for whom I conceived an eﬅeem, from
obſerving in his countenance openneſs and honeﬅy,
and poſſeſſing, as l thought, a heart ſimilar to my
own, 1 was lead to entreat for him: until laﬅ year I
Could aſſign no other reaſon for mentioning that
name than what I have given; but the true one is,
that as God had not only determined to keep in
L_ondon the people then in it, but likewiſe to allow
great multitudes to be drawn to it from all parts[pf
. * t e
[21] þ_
'Lime country, he would be found among the num; 7 r
zer to be deﬅroyed; for which, to prevent his
death in ſuch a place, the Lord God inﬂuenced
ſſme to regard him, that I mi ht afterwards re
member ſuch a perſon, and For: mindſul of his,
ſafety. ſſ
" I am not 'the leaﬅ acquainted with the man I_
havev mentioned, Whom God was pleaſed to' diﬅin
guiſh by va great teﬅimony of his regard 5, but al
though vI am not, and four names are diﬀerent, he is,
as well as myſelf, deſcended from David, King of
Iſrael. The Counteſs' ofBuckinghamſhire. whomv
I am no more acquainted with than the ﬅranger I
'mentioned before, is likewiſe deſcended from" David,
King of Iſrael; the family ſhe is married into are
alſo ofthe Hebrews, and are deſcended from Joſeph,
' the once preſident of Egypt. -
" After entreating for the perſons I have ſet down,"
and painting from my mind to numbers whoſe
'names I did not know, l was, to prepare me for the '
deſignation ofGod, carried tip to heaven in a viſion,
and ſaw on my right ſide,-at a ſmall diﬅance, a beau;
tifu] ſilverzwhite bird in the ſhape of a dove, but a
little larger; it was the Holy Ghoﬅ, and'was the
very'ſame that deſCCnded on the head of mybleſſed
Saviour, when he came up from being baptized in '
the river Jordan; he kept' between me and Satan,
who was 'then revealed that I might witneſs it,
- and great power given to him to viſit the earth. The _
Lord God then ſpoke' to me from the middle of a
white ſhining cloud.v _ 7
þ'r After this I was in a viſion, having- the angel
dſ God near me, and ſaw Satan walking leiſhrely
into London; his face' had a ſmile, but under it'
his looks were ſly, crafty and deceitful. On thg
right "
[22]
right ſide of his forehead, were ſeven dark ſpots;
he was dreſſed in white and ſcarlet robes.
" Again I was in a viſion, and ſaw London a_
ſcene of confuſion; all the people were armed, and
appeared quite. furious: I was carried through the
city in the Spirit of God to ſee all things that
were deſigned ſhould come to paſs, and to be in
formed how quick they ſhould be accompliſhed.
" After this l was in a viſion, and ſaw a large
river run through London coloured with blood.
" Exceedingly unhappy for all that I ſaw, and
which I knew would ſoon be fulﬁlledI I prayed and
entreated the Lord God to give me one more in
ﬅance of his mighty regard, by ſparing London
a'nd the great multitude in it. I ſaid, I acknowledge,
O Lord my God, that the people do very wrong,
but it is through compulſion and for want of know
ing better._ ſi _'
" The Lord God was ſo highly diſpleaſed that I_
ſhould, after all his former kindneſs,ctﬅrain his af
fection and entreat him to annul his recorded judg
ment, as to ﬅop me,_ and in a voice of great ſharp
ncſs and anger ſavahey have my bleſſed Goſpel
and will not obey it. The Angel that was appoint
ed to give me inﬅruction forſook me in an inﬅant
on hearing this anſwer. 1 trembled for my life,
and ſeemed to be another man; for I- was afraid
of being deﬅroyed with the City, l_t Was three
days after this before the Lord God would be re-.
conciled to hear my prayers, and ſpeak to me with
his former kindneſs.
'5 In ten days after the three, Iwas in a viſion
and being carried up to Heaven, the Lord Go
ſpoke to xme from the middle of a large white
cloud, and ſaid in a ﬅrong clear voice, " All,
All l
't ﬁst/1'
Alll I pardon London and all the people in it,
for your ſake: there is no other man on earth
that could ﬅand' before me to aſk for ſo great
a thing;" . .
" For ever, O Lord 'my God, I will=praiſe and
thank you for this great inﬅance of your bleſſed
regard: all nations will hear it, and may all nations
honour you by their obedience; yourzgreat mercy
is over them all 3 and, by its goodneſs, the world is
howſafe; > - .- ._ - *
" Had Lond0n been. deﬅroyed in the year 179i,
the place where it ﬅands would have formed a great
bay, Or inletof the Channel: all the land between
Windſor and,the,DoWns-would have been ſunk,
including a diﬅance of 18 miles each ſide, but con
ſiderablyz more towards the ſea coaﬅ; it would have
been ſunk to the depth of 70 fathoms, or 420 feet,
'that noltraCes of the city might be ever found, or
even ſo much as looked for. a: a -
'4 The' 15th 'of Auguﬅ, 1793, was the apPointed
time by the Lard God to fulﬁl the parts of the Re
'velation I have mentioned, and puniſh the world
with deſol'ation; but from' his great mercy and rej
gard for me, that I may be eﬅeemed in this country,
and by all others when I am revealed,-ſuſpended
his judgment fora time; it hangs however over- all
nations.v X ; , z -
" I am the 'prophet that will be revealed to 'the
Jews to order their departure from all nati-ons to _
go to the, land of Iſrael, their own country, in a
ſimilar manner to Moſes in Egypt, but 'with ad
ditional power. . _ - . \
*' I was an oﬃcer in the Engliſh navY, and n'e
ceſſarily ſo, although I didv not know it, that the
judgment of God on David, King of Iſrael, might
' D z - be
[24]
be' fulﬁlled, which was, that the ſword ſhouldlnevef,
depart from his houſe. 1 .
" It is 1500 hundred years ſince my family was
ſeparated from the jews, and loﬅ all knowledge of
its origin; the.laﬅ on record in the Scripture is
James: 13 Chap. 55 ver. of St. Matthew. Told
me by rev'elation.
" The government of the Jewiſh nation will,
under the LOrd God, be committed to me, that the
'everlaﬅing covenant from him to David may be ma;
nifeﬅ'ed in the viſible Prince and Governoſir of the'
tws." '
J From the" predictions > of the Second Book,
the following are ſelected As the moſt remark
able.
That he wrote more than twelve months ſince
to the King, Ween, and Miniﬅer of State, be
ſeeching'them not to join in the war againﬅ France;
for the death of Louis was decreed, and the eﬅa.\
blilh'ment of the Republic determined in the Scrip
ture of Truth. _ - '. * '
The preſent Empreſs'of Ruﬃa is, aecdrding to
the judgment 'of God; in Dan. 7, 5, decreed to ſuﬀer
death', and, as he is informed by revelati'on, by
the hands of man. _ ſi - -' .
' The German Electors are' to be 'entirely deﬅroyed,
'and their territories to be poſſeſſed by the Emperor,
who is "to ſpread his dominion Over Italy; Rome
and Venice are to be ſubmitted to his power; but
the former is to be retaken by France, while the
latter is plundered and almoﬅ deﬅroyed. After
this, he ſays the Emperor will ſuﬀer death from the
hands of man. '
He ﬅated, on theſſlth of laﬅ Apr'il, that the
' Auﬅrian
t 25 l
Auﬅrian army would moﬅ ſurely be defeated. This
prediction has been too fatally verified.
' The Emperor, after' making peace with FranCe,
will, he ſays, begin, his ambitious projects, with
ſeizingron the Electoraſitſie of Hanover. '
His, prediction of the King of Pru'ﬃa, acknowz
ledgingand making peace with the French, ſeems'
nearly, if it is not actually, fulﬁlled. \ *
* The King of Pruſiia is to have 'his dominions
encreaſed with the poſſeſſion of three electorates,
But, in his turn, he is to loſe his own by Ruſſia
and Auﬅria. Berlin is to be ſet on fire by the Bear,
which he ſays means Ruﬃa. ' . ct
, The Turkiſh Empire is to be attacked bythg
combined forces of Ruﬃa and Auﬅria, whichv will
penetrate to Conﬅantinople, and no lfarther. ,
Warſaw is to be ſet on ﬁre, and the government
entirely changed. -
The Ruﬃan Generalwill proclaim himſelf Em,
Peror of Greece.
'_ Sweden is to enter Ruﬃa, and deﬅroy, with great
fury, the ſhips of war and capital. r .
The Ruﬃan Empire is to be agitated with con,
vulſions by its Generals- and Governors. I
The Spaniſh Monarchy is to ceaſe this war.
The Imperial Family, he ſays, will be all Cut
oﬀ.
" The Stadtholderſhip ofHolland," in his words,
" is to be cut oﬀ cloſe to the ground.'.'
DR. JOHN HARVEY.
In the year r 580, Dr. John Harvey, an eminent
phyſician, of Lynn in Norfolk, related in his Trea
tiſe an Eaﬅern Propheſy, which obviouſly is the
* ' ſame
e
t26]
ſame' univerſally known and accredited in the Le
' vant at this day, as appears by our travellers in
thoſe parts. x The ſubﬅance of the propheſy is,
that the [iter attack of the Chriﬅian power is to
be ſucceſsful, and that the Turks are to be utterly
vanquiſhed-and deﬅroyed. The Greeks and Egy'p
tiam univerſally apply this prediction tothe late
war between the Ruſſians and Turks; and, as ac.
cording to the-terms of the' propheſy, ifthe Chriſ.
, tian ſword did' not prevail. in the ﬁrﬅ'attempt, the
ﬁnal damﬅmphe was to. be delayed for twelve years,
ﬁnis highly probable it will be_conſummated
about the year of our, Lord 1802, and- that, at
thatvtim'e, the Turkiſh. empire .will be diſſolVed
and-laid in ruins, and.the Mahomet-an impoﬅure
'totally eclipſed andexting'uiſhed by-the truth of the
Chriﬅian Revelation. If we advert to the preſent
critical ſituation of aﬀairs betweensthe Turks and
Ruﬃans,.we ſhall 'be cdmpclleduo aſſent to the
ﬅrong probability that exiﬅs of the period alluded
t 'to being the 'real epoch of'the accompliſhmentof
the propheſy. - . __ =
MiCHAEL NOSTRODAMUS.
'__ In r555, the famous aﬅrologer Michael Noﬅr'o
ldamus foretold the French Revolution, as we have
'of lat'ewitneſſcd it, and the ſubſequent death oſ the
King. He is very particular as to the fate of the
'ſeveral French Cities which were to ſuﬀer; the im
menſe number of killed and priſoners, and the in
nocent blood to be ſhed; but it is remarkable, he
' ſays, peaCe is to comefrom aneſide. *
_ His Prophetic Centuries were ſo much eﬅeemed
and credited, that Henry Il. King oſance,,cauſed
' him
[27]
him to come to his court at Paris,. where he re.
ceived the moﬅ honourable tokens of royal patron
age and muniﬁcence, This monarch gave him,
beſide other very valuable preſents, two hundred
crowns of gold. He then ſent him to the princes,
his ſo'ns, at Blois.. zHereceived alſo. the moﬅ liberal
boundes from Charles IX._
WILLIAM LILLY.
Our-noted countryman, Lilly, thus propheſied of'
the French nation, in 1626 :_-.-" And it ſhall vcome
to paſs, Wſſhen'the King and the people of France
have committed an. act of great and ſiagrant treachery'
towards this land, that the Lord ſhall avenge his
faithful people with vengeance, an hundred-fold,
For he ſhall ſend an angel of diſſention among the
perﬁdious Gauls; they ſhall maſſacre each other for
Years of years, and prey upon their own ﬂeſh. 7774.
King ſhall ſeek an aſyIu/n Ire/ball not ﬁnd, and his deſoz
late family ſhall beg their'v bread oſ their ancient
enemies." It ſcarcely need be hinted, how plainly
the ﬁrﬅ part of this prediction related toſſthe con-_
duct of the French nation towards us in our quarrel
with America. ,
ANNA TRAPNEL,
Anna Trapnel, as we read in the chronicles of
thoſe troubleſome times in which" ſhe lived, was
frequently viſited by the ſpirit of propheſy." In the
early part of the civil war, ſhe ſof'etold the event oſ
the battle oſ Naſeby, and that the King would be
cut oﬀ by. the ſword ofjuﬅice: but that his ſa- '
mily would reign again for a ſeaſon, and then be
i ' ' " > totally
[23]
ZOtally blotted' out. For this, ſhe was caﬅ into'
priſon, where ſhe laid ſome months, uttering re
inarliable ſay'ings and propheſies; and, as was ſaid,
ſubſiﬅing for a great length of time without food.
She predicted, that kingly power was to ceaſe *
throughout the earth, when the Lord ſhould again
vpen the eyes of the blind. -
MR. LOVE.
_' This pious and holy miniﬅer oſ God's word, who
ſuﬀered during the uſurpation ot Cromwell, pre
dicted the deﬅruction of popery 1790, and that, in
1797, it ſhould be complete. A great man is then
v to ariſe. The ﬅars will wander, and the moon turn
as blood in 1800. The whole world will tremble
in 1803 with inteﬅine troubles. In 1805 there will
, be a univerſal earthquake, after which all religious
diſſentiOns will ceaſe, and a general reiormation oſ.
mankind will then follow, as preparative for the
bleſſed Millenium, which will, ſhortly after, reﬅore
to the World, purity," ſanctity, tranquility, and
proſperity. .- '
PETER JURIEN.
. About the time of the revocation of' the edict of
- Nantz, by that cruel and perﬁdious tyrant Louis the
Fourteenth, Mr. Peter Jurien, an eminent and pio'us
miniﬅer of God's word, uttered many propheſies.
The moﬅ remarkable part of his works, and the
moﬅ applicable to the preſent times, is the following
commentary on the Revelation, chap. u. ver. '3.
And the ſame þbaur was there a great cartbquakt, and the
lent/1 part of the city fell, and in 'be rartbquake were ſlain
i of
l
\'[29]
men ſeven thou/had; and the remnant 'were aﬀrighted, amiſſ
gave glory to God. Now what is thistenth part of the'
city that ſhall fall? In my' opinion, we cannot doubt:
that it is France. This kingdom is the moﬅ conſt
derable part or piece of the ten horns, or. ﬅates,
which once made upthe great Babylonian city: it
fell. This doer not/'ſignify that 'be French manam/ay ſhall be
mixed; it may be humbled z but, in all appearance,
'Providenee does deſign a great elevation far ber aſter
wards. 'Tis highly probable, that God will not let
'go unpuniſhed the horrid outrages which it acts at
this day. Afterwards it muﬅ build its greatneſs up
=0n the ruins of the Papa-l empire, and enrich itſelf
With . he ſpoils Of tbqſe who/ball take part 'with 'be papacy;
They, who, at this day, perſecute the Proteﬅants, _
know not whither God is leading them : this is not
the way by which he will lead France to the height *
of glory. If ſhe co'r-ne thither, 'tis becauſe ſhe ſhall
'ſhortly change liin read. He' greatemſi-ng 'wi-11 be no da- ct
mage to t/9e Proteﬅant States: on the contrary, the Pro
teﬅant States ſhall be entich'ed with' the ſpoils vof r
others, and be ﬅrengthened by the fall of Anti
chriﬅ"s empire. The tenth part of the city ſhall fall
with reſpect to the Papacy; it ſhall break _with
Rome, and the ROman religion. One thing is cer
tain, that the Babylonian empire ſhall periſh through
the refuſal of obedience by the ten kings who had
given their power 'to the beaﬅ. The thing is already
come to paſs in part. The kingdoms of Sweden,
Denmark, England, and ſeveral ſovereign ﬅates in
Germany, have withd-rawn themſelves from the ju
riſdiction of the Pope. They have ſpoiled the har
lot of her riches: they have. eaten her ﬂeſh; i. e.
ſeized on her beneﬁces and revenues, which ſhe had '
in their countries. Thicts'muﬅ, go on, and be ﬁniſhed
as
ſ 30 J
As it is begun. The kings, who yet remain unde
the empire of Rome, muſt break with her, an
leave her ſolitary and deſolate, _ , a 't
_ But who muﬅ begin this laﬅ re'volt?,'Tis moﬅ'
probable that France ſhall; not Spain, which as yet
is plungedin ſuperﬅition, and is as much uiider the
tyranny of the clergy as ever. Not the Emperor,
who, in tempdrals, is ſubject to the Pope, and per
mits, that, in his ﬅates, the Archbiſhop ofStrigonium
ſho'uldtcach, that the Pope can take-away the Im
perial Crown from him. It (minor be 'any country but
France; which, long ſince, hath begun to ſhake
- o'ﬀ the yoke oſ Rome. 'Tis well known how ſo,
*]emnly and openly war' hath been declared againﬅ
the Pope by a declaration of the King, rariﬁed in all
the parliaments, by the deciſiOns of the aſſembly of
the French clergy; b'ya diſputation againﬅ Lheau
thority of the Pope, managed in the Saborne ſo
lemnly, and by order of the cdurt; and, 'to heighte'n
the aſſront, the theſes were poﬅed up, even upon the.
gates oſ his Nuncio. Nothing oſ this kind had hi
therto happbned, at leaﬅ in a time of peace, and.
'unleſs the Popev had given 6ccaſion by his inſ0<
lences. Beſich this, ſuþe'ﬅitz'on and idolaﬂ'y loſe t/Jeir
'credit mue/1 in France. There is a ſerr'ct party, though
Well enough known, which greatly deſpiſethvthe
popular-devotith images, worſhip oſ ſaints, and
is 'convinced that theſe are human inventions. God .
i's beforehand preparing for this greatſiwork.
4
a
it e _ e ' 'I- a
'Theſe great "events, deſerve to be diﬅinguiſhed
from all others; forv they have changed, or ſhall
\change, the face Of, the whole world. *
\ - ' SETH
r ex 3., _
BETH DARWINzſ
'In the reign of King Charles I._ seth Darwin,
one of the"* firﬅ of thev people;called'Qjakers,ſi piubl
liſhed many ﬅrange and' wonderful p'ropheſies. He,
was'author of a hook; called! " Old Trilth'ſſs' Firﬅ
Meſſengerr'l He was apprehended for going naked
to thev waiﬅ 'into 'a church, and' diﬅurbing the
congregation with alarming ſpeeches. When be
ſore the magiﬅrate, he ſaid, the voice of Nature *
commanded himltorſpeak the'truth before he
anſwered any queﬅions; and being permitted, he
' -ſp0ke as follows, which was inﬅantly committed to
writing by the t'clerk as he uttered it 2 " This fair
'kingdom travaileth with ſore travail; but as a. wo
'man bringeth forth with ſore pain, ſo are kin'
doms regenerared in ſiturmoil and trouble. There
vmuﬅ be many new births among us' before our
Perfection cometh. For, lo! wiſdom is tardy; and'
ſwhen ſhe be fully come, ſhe ſhall not'make long
tarrying; ſibecauſc when you behold the' tide at
-full, it' pauſeth but- a ſhort ſeaſon; and neither the
ſtm nor'the ſeaſons'ﬅand ﬂill. And behold man is
the creature of folly, and the 'foe of truth." All
'things change; yea, me'nfs minds'change more than
'all things; and they-who are now the moﬅ blind,
Land- the-'greateﬅ enemies of trurh, ſiſhal-l, among our,
paﬅerity, became [by glrand rgﬅorer: of it. Our neighbour
kingdom-(France) no,w at peace; but," before-ﬂye
ded/I) of the nextibundr'ed years, ſhe ſhall be in travail,
* An atteﬅed copy of this paper was givſifn to the e'ditoi' in the
year 1759, by the late Rev.'Mr. Jolm We! e) ' '
ſſ'" ' E z ' and
[32_]
and bring forth ſuch plagues, that the like has not
been known in theſe latter age: of the world. In
thoſe days the Iiﬂ of' man ſhall be valued as nought 3 and
men ſhall ſee truth, and own it, but belie it in their
deeds: and they ſhall caſt oﬀ all fooliſh opinions,
and put on all wicked acts. And their hand ſhall
be upon all the world, and all the world upon them;
'and their faſhion ſhall prevail over all the VVeﬅ,"
Being urged to ſpeak of the Holy Scriptures, he
called them ſmoke, dead embers, and rotten bones
of dead men.
ROBERT NIXON.
The famous Cheſhire prophet Nixon, beſides his
propheſies relative to the fate of private families,
alſo.predicted much of public aﬀairs, which we ﬁnd
literally veriﬁed by the ſequel. On the Chriﬅmas *=
before he went to "court, being among the ſervants
at Mr. Cholmondely's houſe, to the ſurprize of
them all, he ſuddenly ﬅarted up, and ſaid, " I muﬅ
propheſy."-He went on, *' If the favourite 1-0f a
King ſhall be ſlain, the maﬅer's neck ſhall be cleft
in twain. And the men of the North 1 ſhall ſell
precious blood; yea, their own blood. And they
ſhall ſacriﬁ'ce a noble warrer to the idol, and 'hang
up his ﬂeſh in the high places: and a ﬅorm ſhall
come out of the North, which ſhall blow down the
ﬂeeples of the South: and the labourer ſhall riſe
* Collection of old amphlets.
'k The Duke of Buc ingham, (favourite of James and Charles I.
who was beheaded) aſſaſſinated by john Felton.
I The Scots, who ſold their king, Charles 1. for a large ſum
of money, to the Engliſh rebels.
s Suppoſe the Marquis of Monttoſe.
above
ſ WJ33 1]
above histlord, and the harveﬅ ſhall inupart be
trampled down by horſes, and the remainder lie
waﬅe, to be devoured by birds. When an oak tree
r ſhall be ſofter than men'shearts, then look for better
times, but they be but beginning. The departure
of a great man's ſoul ſhall trouble a river hard
by, and overthrow trees, houſes, 'and eﬅates. From
'that part of the houſe, from whence the miſchief
came, you muﬅ look for the cure. Firﬅ comesjoy,
thenſorrow; after mirth comes mourning." Iſee
men, women, and Children, ſpotted T like beaﬅs,
and their neareﬅ and deareﬅ friends aﬀrighted at
them. Iſee towns on ﬁre, and innocent blood ſhed ;
but when men and horſes walk upon the water, then
ſhall come peace and plenty 'to the people, but trou
ble is preparing for kings: 'and the great yellowfruit 'I
ſhall come over to this country, and ﬂouriſh: and
I ſee this tree take deep root, and ſpread into a.
thouſand branches, which 'ſhall afterwards be at
ﬅrife one with another, becauſe of their number;
and there ſhall come a wind from the South, and
the Weﬅ, which --ſhall ſhake the tree. I ſee multi
tudes of people running tojand fro, and talking in
a ﬅrange tongue. And there ſhall be a famine s in
the midﬅ ofgreat plenty, and earthquakes and
ﬅorms ſhall level and 'purify the earth." After
theſe ſayings, every one, with the ſlighteﬅ know
ledge of our hiﬅory, Awill inﬅantly apply' to thoſe
events which they ſo wonderfully foretold. Nixon
* Sup oſe Oliver Cromwell, at whoſe death the greateﬅ ﬅorm
of wind appened that had been known in England. '
1- The plague and ﬁre of London foretold.
I The Great Yellow Fruit, ſuppoſe the Prince ofOrange, King
William III.
5 This was ſaid, in the book from whence theſe prediction: '
were extracted, to mean oppreſſion of the poor. *
- was
i_3+-l
was ſilent, and relapſed into his wonted Rapidity;
from which he did not recover until many weeks after,
when he became again inſpired, and gave vent to
thoſe remarkable predictions u'hich were collected _
* _ by Mr. Oldmixon. Thoſe which we havejuﬅ now
* related, were taken down from ,the prephet's
mouth, by the ﬅeward, in purſuance of the orders
of Mr. Cholmondely himſelf; and the original ml
nuſcript is now in the hands of a gentleman in,
Shropſhire. '
- ROBERT FLEMMING.
In the beginning oſ the preſent century, Mr. Ra
bert Flemming, taking the Revelations for his guide,
Clearly and explicitly pointed out the fall of the
French monarchy, about the time, and according
to the circumﬅances in which it has happened. The
following are his, remarkable and foreboding words,
on this grand andſolemn occaſion: " Iſany enquigeſi
farther, W'hether the ſun of the Popiſh kingdom
is not to be eclipſed himſelf at length? I muﬅ poſi
tiver aſſert, he will, elſe this vialwere not a judg
ment upon him and the Romiſh party. Buc if yet
again the queﬅion be, When this is to fall out, and
how? 'lmuﬅ tell you, thatl have nothing farther
ſi to add to what I have ſaid as to the time. But as
to the manner how this is to be done, our text does
lay a ſoundation for ſome more diﬅinct thoughts.
.Therefore, in the fourth and laﬅ place, we may
juﬅly ſugpoſe that the French monarchy, after it
>þas ſtart/zed otbm, will itſelf conſume by doing ſo;
its ﬁre, and that which isthe fuel that maintains it,
'waiting inſenﬁbly, until it be exhauſied at laﬅtowards
the Ora' qf this century." XVe, of the preſent day, have
" ſeen
[353.
seen this part of' the prophcſy completed in a iron; '
- erſul andfearful manner; and Mr. Flemming far-._
iher ſays, 'V that the expiration of one of the ſeven
vials, preﬁgured-in the. Revelations, Will be in the ct
year 1794., when ſome new mortiﬁcation will hap
pen 'to the chiefſuþþ'orter: of Anticbrzﬅ." Thus we may
look for the eyen: of ſome new calamity to the Poe'
piſh party before the concluſion of the current ject; and,
according to Mr. Flemming's interpretation of the
divine Apocalypſe, the 'downfal of Antichriﬅ, or
the Popedom, will ſoon follow. After that, he ſays',
things will again alter for th'e better; and in the year
zooo, will commence that glorious ſabbatical mil
lenary (or the millenium) when ſaints ſhall reign on
the earth in a peaceable manner, for a thouſand
year's more. See Revelations, iv. 1, &e. x. 5, 6, 7.
-ſi-Alſ0 xvii. I, 5, 1\8. ' *
JOH'N LACY.
I'n the year 17o7, John Lacy, a man greatly noted
at that time th'roiighdut the whole kingdom for his
prophetic ſpirit, 'among his' other warnings, wrote'
thefollowing propheſy of the deﬅruction of the
French monarchy: " The Lord will deﬅroy thoſe
i'ma es, which thou haﬅ ſet up-ſor thyſelf(ſpeaki'ng
of t e then king of France) and all thy ﬅatues; the
courtiers of France, and all cttbe Tour! of France; Ver.
ſailles, Which thou haﬅ raiſed for thy luﬅ and grand
eur, ſhall be thrown to the ground. Paris, that im
p'erial city, ſhallctbe convulſed ; the Royal Family ſhall
be dread/"ally aﬄicted, and thy iniquities ſhall be aveng
ed 6n thy grand-children. Lyons ſhall ſcourge thee
J-th'OU TOulouſefhalt be reduced to aſhes, and thou
- * Bourdeaux
_ ' i 36 1]
Bourdeaux (though favoured) ſhalt'not be without
chaﬅening, Thus ſhall England be leſs viſited with
myjudgments than France. '
\
JOHN MAxſitMILIAN' DAUT, 1712.
The following is the prophetic viſion of John
Maximilian Daut, as delivered before the ſenate at
' Frankfort, together with his laﬅ prediction, ex
tracted from the public records of that city by a
Lutheran miniﬅer.-" Behold the God of armies
'called aloud unto me by night, and ſaid, ariſe, my
, - faithful meſſenger, ariſe, and tell unto the world this -
ſaying which'l ſhall give thee, thus-Jehovah, the'
jealous-God, will ariſe with his judgment, and aﬄict
the city of Vienna, with all the cities and countries
round about her, far and wide; with plague, peﬅi
lence, and famine; from the Eaﬅ to the North, and
from the 'Weﬅ to the South, aCCording as l before
made maniſeﬅ' Unto thee in the viſion of the Virgin,
and of the table] command thee, preach' repentance
unto the guilty city of Vienna, and to the towns and
countries around her; ſaying, thus ſaith the Lord v
Jehovah, turn from 'the wickedneſs of Cain to the
righteouſneſs of Abei. And you princes, who inhe
rit authority, eſchew your wickedneſs, with which
. you havedeﬁled the land 'z and with which you have
'en-'tired the people to ſin; and cauſe juﬅice to be
do'ne among them, And all ye, the inhabitants of
cities, towns, and countries, whether young or old,
riſſc-h or. poor, humble or exalted, fail not to humble
ſſ - yourſelves
E'317, 1
ourſelves to the duﬅ in my preſence, and in my'
houſe; for I_amſi the jealous and avenging God,
And the Lord farther ſaid Lct'nto þme, take up a
lamentation for the/Whole Roman empire, and fox
\ all their kings and princes, from the 32d chapter of'
Ezekctiel, with an addition which-I ſhall give unto
thee. 'F And on the ﬁtſiﬅ day of the twelfth month,
the word ofſſ God beamectunto me, __ſayivng," ver: zd; ſi
." ſon of man take utia lamentation (onthe deﬅroyer
whoþath deﬅroyed 'myichoſen people Iſrael, whom
I have choſen in .the£pi{it_,ſi1n£the landſiof Romiſh
Oppteﬃohſi Say Wite-him, Behold zholfarr a lion
amongt le' nations, 'aud'as a Whale,_1n the ſeas; 'and
'hottliﬂiieﬅ fottþﬂith thy water Ifiyhieh' are thj'
ſixbjectþſi; and' trpublEſjc' the-waters (Kithe people with'
'feegſiofſieniperorx kings; mighty ones, eath;
nobles, captainshjudgesr ſheriﬀs; WhereWIth thou ,
(vexeﬅ the' watereſipftþcte people. , Fnrthertſinore,
will 'make the hearts'gfſirnſiany pedple,ctſſ0_f_ all nations,
to quake; when they ſee thy-pla'guþs'," and' many
eounti'ie; which' now/'know thee not; yea, many
kingdoms' ſhall be aﬅoniſhed becauſe of thee, and
their king: ſhall ſſbc ſore aﬄigbted when] ſhall draw the
ſword againﬅ thee; they ſhall ﬅand terior-ﬅruck
and appalled, and their hearteſhall ſink as they
witneſs thy deﬅruction." ' ' "
And the Almighty ſhewed me a 'city of ahomi
nations in'a trance, that was lſſfull 9? murders and
idſiolatry. I aſked the Lord the name of that city, '
by which it was knewn. And the Moﬅ High an
ſwered and ſaid, lt is the great city Babylon; called
Rome, with the whole terſitory thereof; the ſcarlet
whore, the greateﬅ of harlots, the ſoul beginne: of
all abominations that have deﬁled the inheritance of
* * thrift;
[33]
Chriſt, XVoe, woe unto thee! thou blood-thirﬅy,
murderous city! I will ſend ſamine, plagues worſe
than Egyptian, and a ﬂaming ſword, the ﬁerce
meſſengers of my relentleſs wrath, u on ctyour mur
derers: for you Romans, even you, ave cauſed to '
be ſhed mo're of__the blood of my righteous ſervants
and prophets than can be comprehended by 'number
'or meaſure. Therefore, thus ſweareth the MoﬅJ High
God, lo! Iv will bring ﬅrangers upon thee, ver. 7.
The Turks and the tYrants of the North, with all
the tyrants oſ'Chriﬅendom and their vatiſal's, ſhall
turn their arms againﬅ the ebeauty dehYIWiſifdom-i
and they ſhall utterly'deface thy ſplendor; 'andlidaﬂr
thee down into the pit; and thpu' ſhalt ſink' and 'þe-r'
riſh, as thoſe thatſſare ﬂain in thectmidﬂ' ofthe waters;
O Rome! Rome! I will conſume thee to aſhes upon.
the earth, before the eyes of the whole wail-1; A - am,
like Sadam, ſhall be utterly burnt wctitbfre-ſhe'ſhhl] ſink like
a great mj/ſﬅone in the ſea, and ber' ſmoke ſhall ﬁſh: up ſarſſ
ever and ever. All they who know thee among the
nations ſhall be aﬅoniſhed at thee, that thou art ſo
ſuddenly brought low, and can'ﬅ newer riſe again,
ſaith the Lord. ' '
The foregoing propheﬁes, out of the prophet'
Ezekiel, God commanded his ſervant to fet down
here ; for the Lord ſpoke mouth [a mouth tuitb my ſpirit,
and commanded me to ſpeak in all things, as he
ſhould tell me. " And; lo! herev it ﬂands to a tittle
as the Lord did command, Whoever now ſhall
again ſay it, and deſpiſe it," or ſpeak or think evil
of it, that ſame ſhall draw down a heavyjudgment
on his own head. Thus hath the Almighty written
by me, John Maximilian, his choſen penman, as a,
uarning to all' men: and ler no man's pride or fool-7
l\ i ' iſhrICſS'
0
-_-_
' 7 Mt
[39]
iſhneſs deceive him, for the Lord is a' jealOUs GOd.
and will not be laughed to ſcorn, for whatſoever he
ſayeth, cometh of good, t *
The laﬅ predictinn of M. Daut, taken from
him verbatim, at his own houſe, by Hans Frede'ric
Gruebber the elder, one- of the magiﬅrates of
Frankſort: '
" And the Lord ſaid unto me', on the eve of the
laﬅ ſabbath, Ariſe, Maximilian, and ive unto the
nations a ſign, that they may know t at I am the
_Lor'd, and that thou art truly my prophet. And
ſay', henceforth there ſhall be wars, and ﬅriving for
the maﬅery, among Chriﬅian nations: and they
ſhall divide the ſpoil among the great ones, who.
ſhall wax fat in luxuries and abominations, whilﬅ
they heed not the cry of the poor and oppreſſed;
but ſhed their blood upon the earth like water, and
devour their ſubﬅance. Verily, verily, I have heard
the cry oſif the poor, like theblood oſ Abel, and I
will ctave e them an hundred-fold 'on the oppreſſor.
For, beho they__ſhall eat the ﬂeſh, and drink the
blood 'of 'rich and mighty m'enh-they 'ſhall ' ſay unto
them'ye ſpared notthe blood oſ us, 'not of our lit
'tle ones', riot our ſubﬅance. And they ſhall ariſe,
like'the" mightywaves of the ocean', and cover and
overwh'elm all : and the high places ſhall be pulled
down', and dignitieszſhall be, trampled upon, and
worſhip ſhall be laid low, and riches divided; and
behold thepoor of the earthſhall beavenged oftheop
preſſor: and_think'_not theſethings afar oﬀ, although
thectſſp're'ſent generation ſhall not ſee'thern: for the
feeds oſdeﬅruction are ndw ſowing in the chambers
and 'privy places of a king: andwhen their abomina- _,
tions of inceﬅ, whoredom, adultery, and unbelief, 'ſhall
F 2. . ' be
[> +<> i
be fullylripglook for the beginning of wrath. And!
king ſhall periſh with the edge of the' ſword, and
1 the blood of Jezabel ſhall be ſhed by 'the walls of
the palace, and the churches and high places ſhall
fall, and Baal's pri'c'ﬅs ſhall be put to the ſword,'
'and ſeſint into captivity by 'thouſandsz Woe, Woe to
'that land, for the four Winds ſhall ruſh againﬅ it,
_and lay it deſolate, and it ſhall not recher until it
be fatterled with its own blood. And the ﬅench
thereof ſhall be blown by 'the winds i'nto every king;
dom, for myjudg'ments are right'eotis, ſaith 'the Lord,
'and l'will avenge the cauſe of the oppreſſed; nor
' 'willl take my ſword from among the nations, until
juﬅice and judgment be fairly rooted. Thus ſaith
'the Lord."
ter MR. join: wnsen
It Was the opinion of ſithexRevZ' Mr.*Joh_n VVilſori'v
fand whichſſhe ſwell ſupports by proofs from the
I-Ioly Scriptures) that the rench Revolution isthe
prelude to the fall of Antichrill, or of the Romiſh
religiOn; Here followeth an extract ſroiſin his ſer
mon. ct'f. Before Antichriﬅ's fall, 'one of the ten
kingdoms w-hich ſupported the beaﬅ, ſhall undergo
a 'riarvelloucts revolution, R'cctv. ii. 13., The ſame boar
there 'was la, eartbquake, .a_nd 'be ie'ilb þart of the n'iſ
fell. By which tenth part is t'o underﬅoodone
oſ_th'e ten kingdoms, into which the great city,
ſi 'Romiſh Babylon, 'was divided: 'this 'many take to
be'the kingdom of France, it being the'ſitenth and
laﬅ of the kingdoms as to its riſe, and that which
gave to, Rome the denomination of a beaﬅ with ten
horns,t and alſo' it being the only one of the. ten that
* tt was
\
þl 41 l
was tick/er cenquered þﬁnce its riſe. However line.
llkely this and other propheſied events may appear
at this time, yet the Almighty Hand of, the only
' iviſe God can ſoon bring them about when leaﬅ ex-_
pected;" _ _ _
BIsHoP N_EWTON.
More than thirty years ago, the good Biſhop
Newton, in his diſſertations on the propheﬁes, fore.
told that France ſhould next take the leadﬄin the de
ﬅruction of the Papal power; which great event
having been lately veriﬁed, forces, as it were, ouraſ- '
ſent and belief of what he farther holds out to us.
He ſays, the capital city of Rome ſhall be deﬅroyed
by ﬁre, and, after the ſubver-ſion of the city, the
beaﬅ and the falſe prophet, and their Complete and
total ſideſlriiction; the pon/ers, civil and ecCleſiaﬅical,
with thoſe who ﬅill adhere to their party, ſhall make
one eﬀort more, but it ſhall prove as weak and vain
as it is impious. (And may not this refer to an at
tempt to re-eﬅabliſh that-religion in France ?) The
Biſhop then proceeds to aſſure us, that the deﬅruc
tion ofRome ſhall be followedby the converſion and
reﬅoration of the Jews; and after that, by the ruin
of the Turkiſh empire.
BARON SWEDENBOURG. _
Laﬁly, BarbſſSWedehbourg', 'near half a century
ago, in his book, has this moﬅ remarkable and pro
phetic ſentence: *' The noble nation of France will
riſe as one- nian, 'break hernchains, andoverthrow
the Whereof Babylon." p I" ' '
, ' ' ABBE
i a i
'ABBE RAYNAL.
_The,ſollowing extract from the works of Abbe
Ra'y'nal, as being truly prophetic of the preſent
ſtate of France, is 'well worthy the peruſal of o'uſ'
readers.
" Let us, however, take 'care not to confound
the reſiﬅance which the Engliſh Colonies ought tb
make to their mother country with the fury of a'
'people excited t'o revolt againﬅ their ſoVereign by
a long ſeries of- exceſſive oppreﬃons. When the
ﬂaves of an arbitrary monarch have once broken
their chain, and ſubmitted their fate to the deciſion
Of the ſword, they are obliged to maſſhtrt the tyrant, to
exterminate the whole rare, and to change the form of that'
\ government under 'Which they have ſuﬀeredfor many ages.
, '5 If they venture not this far, they will, ſooner or
later, be puniſhed for having wanted cOurage to com
plete the 'whole of their deſign.
" The yoke will be impoſed 'upon- them with
greater ſeve'rity than ever, and the aﬀected lenity of
their tyrants will only prove a new ſnare in which'
they will be caught and entangled without hope of
ſ
deliverance." .
Abbe Raynal, vol. v. lib. ty.
DR. HOAN.
. This was a celebrated gentleman who reſided in
Shroplhire during the Protectorſhip ofOliver Crow
well. He-told ſeveral oſhis acquaintance who were
deſpairing of ſeeing the' King reﬅored,v " Ere long
there will be an attempt to bring in the' King to his
right; but vit will fall and come to nOthing." 'But a
ſi ſhort
.[43]
ſhort time' after his Majeﬅy will be reﬅored peace- '*
ably and without bloodſhed." The Engliſh hiﬅory
is an authentic record of the truth, of this pre.
diction. ' '
HANNIBAL.
Hannibal, ſleeping, had ſuch a viſion, their. he
ſeemed to fee a fair young maid, like an angel, 'Who ,
was ſent unto, him from heaven to conduct 'hiin to
aſſail ltaly. Heturned himſelf and ſaw a ſi_-:ij1ſi>_enr.ctI
which, by force and violence, broke [all ehaphaeſh. -
countered. This was followed by lightning and;
tempeﬅuous rain, which darkened the day. ſHan
when; ﬁlled with alarm at theſe ﬅrange appearances.- ſſ' '
aſked the fair maid, .Wha;, this, marvellous viſion.
portended, .The young maid. anſwered, " Thou"
ſeeﬅ the ruin oﬁlxaly; wherefore ſay not a Wordlb
and leave, the-reﬅ; to the Dcﬅinies." a Hiﬅory has,
ſince veriﬁed she; truth of this remarkable viſion. *
KING JAMES THE' FIFTH,
This Monarch is reported to have been a great
enemy to the religion that was widely ſpreading in
Scotland about the year 1551. Such was his zeal
ous prejudices in favour of his own profeſſion, that
he was heard to ſay, none of the new faith might '
expect any favour from him. Not even his own ſons"
ſhould' be exempted fer his anger, it' they proved.
guilty. But not long after, Sir, William Hamilton,
being ſuſpected to incline to the new religious. ſyſl
rein, was, falſely accuſed of practiﬁng againﬅ the
King's' life. He- was tri-ed, pondemncd, and exe
cured
[4+]'
'Cuted. Soon after, the King, being at Linlithgow, .
on a night as he ſlept, Thomas _Scot, the Juﬅice
Clerk, came to him witha company oſdevils, cry
ing, " Woe to the day that I ever knew thee or thy ,
ſervice; for ſerving theeagainﬅ God, and againſt
his ſervants, l am now adjudged to hell's torments."
This awful ſalutation, awaking the King, he called
f'or lights, and told his attendants what he had heard
and ſeen. The next day he received intelligence of'
Scot's death happening at the time of his viſion.
This Juﬅice Clerk died in great extremity, uttering
theſe words ;-." _By the righteousjudgment of 'God
I am condemned." , -
' _A few nighs after, he thought he ſaw, in his
ſleep, Sir James Hamilton, whom he had cauſed to
be ex cuted, come, witha drawn ſword, and cut oﬀ
both is arms, threatening, at the ſame time, that
he Would, ſoon-return and de rive him of lifei A
Waking, news was brought him of the death of his
tWO'ſons; James and Arthur, dying at the 'ſame
hour. Next year he died with grief in Falkland,
_This is related, in Archbiſhop Spotwopd's Hiﬅory of
the Church of Scotland. -
ALEXANDER T'HE GRE'AT.
Qgintus Curiius declares, in the life oſ this diﬅin
guiſhed warrior, that when he was beſieging the city
of Tyre, the ſuccours of the Carthagenians being en
tered the city, and they ſaying they were deſCended
from the Tyrians, he deſpaired of ſucceſs, and re-z
ſſ ſolved to raiſe the ſiege. But a ſatyr appearing to
him, in a dream, whom he thought he purſued im
to an adjoining chamber, he was encouraged to,
continue
I '
,\[ 45 ' i
continue the ſiege, ' by the following explanation of
. his interpreters. 'ſſ' That it was a certain forewarn
ing of ſucceſs, if he continued' before the city four
days longer." " He followed their advice, and took
the place; which alſo fulfilled a former propheſy,
which ſaid, A! A Greek ſhall govern the city of
Tyre." - ' ' '
THOMAS WorTON,
This gentleman lived at Boﬅqn Malherb, in Kent,
and was father to the famous Sir Henry Wottonl
A little before his death, he dreamed the univerﬁty
treaſury was robbed by ﬁve townſmen and poor
ſcholars. He wrote this dream, as a poﬅſcript, in a
letter to his ſon, Sir Henry, Who was then at Ween's'
College. The letter, dated three days before; ar.
rived the very morning' after the robbery was Com
Ihitted. The let-ter being communicated by Mr.
Wotton, gave ſuch information as cauſed the diſ
covery and apprehenﬁon of the ﬁve guilty perſons.
_ , coUNTgss QF come. ſ
The Cpunteſs pf Cork, 'afterwards Burlingtori,"
beingctat Dublin, dreamt thathe father, the Earl of
Cumberland, who was then at ark, was dead. He
- died at the ſame hour. T * ' - '
BAQCLAY. _ ' A
This author in his Argcois, in Which Henry I'V. .
oſ France, qptemporary withſiQreen Eiizabeth, is
* n- ' ſi G ' . the
[43]
' w'
deﬅroyed by the nzen who have deﬅroyed
the Herolof the Romance, makes this remarkable \
propheſy :--*' That the time ſhall come when
France ſhall have no other boundaries than the
Rhine, on one ſide, and the Occan, on the other.
When ſucceſs ſhall every where attend her arms ; and
the natiohs ſhall eﬅeem it no hardſhip to be con_
quered by her."
DR. PRIESTLEY.-His FAST SERMON.
Feb. 28th, 1794.
It is the opinion of this great and learned Divine
(and indeed of moﬅ others who have duly attended
to tbeſigm oft-'13 times) " that the preſent diﬅurbances
'in Europe are the beginnxng of thoſe very calamit
ous times," which are predicted in divers parts of
the Holy Scriptures; and that thoſe grievous cala
mities (ſuch as the world has never yet experienced)
are about to ariſe, which are immediately to precede
Chriﬅ's temporal kingdom here upon earth. " This
kingdom, however, a kingdom of truth and righ
teouſneſs, will not be eﬅabliſhed without the great
eﬅ convulſions and tbr 'violent arm-throw of other king
doms," And ſpeaking of Haggai II.-6th verſe,
he ſays, " What can this ﬂat: be, but the future
peaceful and happy ﬅate of the world under the
Meﬃah? and what can be-iþis ſpeaking of- the nations,
that is to precede it, but great convuliions and ſud
den revolutions, ſuch as we ſee 'row beginning to tal-e
place." Again, " The'anger' of the nations is folz
lowed by the deﬅruction of them that deﬅroyed tho
earth," Rev. xi. 17. Now how has the earth been
it, but by
deſolating
l 47 l
deſolating Wars, 'and the deﬅruction that has thereby w
been made of mankind? In like manner, then,
may we conclude, that thoſe deﬅructive powers will
'be'n/elves be dg/iroyed, probably by one another, in- thoſe
wars which, the Apoﬅle James ſays, - ariſe from men's
Iuﬅs, the luﬅ of ambition and revenge. And when,
my brethren, have we ſeen or heard of ſuch anger
and rage *in nations, ſuch vidlence'in carrying on '
war', and ſuch deﬅruction of menzias 'at this very
timePL-What has more eminently contributed to
'deﬅroy the' earth,'than the antichriﬅian and idola
trous eﬅabliſh'ment's oſ Chriﬅianity, that have ſub
ſiſicd in theſe weﬅern parts of the world? Many
more perſons have been deﬅroyed by' Chriﬅians, as
they have called. themſelves, than by Heathens. And
do we not ſee one,*and one of the principal, oſ thoſe
eﬂabliſhments already and completely deﬅroyed P"
He ſays, " That nothing is more evident than that
the only period-that can be called the time pf the re-'
ﬅitmion of allntbings, or the paradiﬁacal, or happy
ﬅate oſ the world, foretold by the ancient prophets,
will follow the reﬅorati'on of the Jews to their own
country. This, and nothing elſe, is the great bur
then of all ancient propheſy. That there is nothing
more clear in the whole compaſs of propheſy, than
that, after the deﬅined period for the diſperﬁon and
calamities of the Jews, the heavieﬅ of all the divine
judgments will fall upon thoſe nations, by whom
they ſhall have been oppreſſed ; and this will involve
' almoﬅ all the nati-ons of the world, but more eſpe
cially thoſe of theſe weﬅern parts, which have been
ſubject ﬁrﬅ to the Roman empire, and then to the
See of Rome. That theſe great troubles, ſo fre
quently mentioned in the ancient propheﬁes, are naw
oammemtſing, I do own I ﬅrongly ſuſpect-and the
z events
a'
a'
As l .l
Ivents Ofthe 'laﬅ yeſiar have contributed to ﬅrangled
that ſuſpicion; the ſio'rtn, however, 'may ﬅill blow
over for the' preſem, and the greater ſcene of cala
'mity be teſerved for ſome future time, though I rim.
not 'bid it will be deferred long." Page 2 5, the Doctor'
"ſays, " This great event of the late Revdlution 'm
France, a peatsto me and many others, to be not
i'mprobab y the accompliſhment of the ioll'o't'ving'
'part 'of the Re'velation, Chap. xi. 3." And farther,
in the Appendix, page 37, he has the following re:
ſimarkabl'e quotation from Dr. Hartley, p. 377.
'* The downfall of th'ecivil and. eccleſiaﬅical pow
'ers, muﬅ bpth be attended with ſuch public calamiſi
'ties as will make men ſerious; and alſo drive them
from the countries of Chriﬅendom into the remote '
parts of the vworld, particularly into the Eaﬅ and
Weﬅ In'dies, whither conſequently they will carry
their religion, now purified from 'erro'r's and ſupers
ﬂitions." I ſay, thisremar/Eabk quotation, becauſe
ſo truly expreﬃve of Dr. Prieﬅly's opinion, the ſin!
cerity of which we cannot qtieﬅion, ſince he has not
only ſent his ſons, but has now joined them, in
that remote part bf the world-North America.
l
DR. GOLſſDSMITH.
The Propbrtit Sentimenth of t/u celebralld Dr. baldſnzirb, as
'expreﬃd in Ijſs Citizez'z of 'tſiﬁe II/orld, nedr Farty Year-i
ago, reſpectng 'be dmericaſin, Swedi , and French Re
velations, &Ft.
"' It is in the politic as in the human conﬂitution,
if the limbs grow 'too large for the body, their ﬁze,
' ' - inﬅead
\
t 49 I ,
inﬅead at i'mproving, will diminiſh the 'vigour-of
the whole. The colo'nies (by which he intended our
Ameri'can ones) ſhould always bear van exact proper."
tion to 'the mother-country; 'When they grow popua
lous, they grow powerful; and by becoming pow
erful, they become independen't alſo. Thus ſubor;
dinatinn is deﬅroyed, and a country ſwallm'ved. up
in the extent of its own dominions. The Turkiſh
empire would be more. formidable We're it leſs ex-[r
tenſive; were it not for thoſe c0untries which it can ſi
neither command, nor give entirely away; which it
is obliged to protect, but from Which it has no power
to exact obedience. v 1
- Swedeu, 'though now ſeeminle a ﬅrenuous aſſertor
of its liberties, is probably only haﬅening on to deſ.
potiſm; Their ſenators, while they pretend to vin.
dicate the freedom ofthe people, are only eﬅabliſh; * . '
ing their own independence. The deluded people
will, however, at laﬅ perceive 'the/miſeries of an'
'ariﬅacratizai government ; they will perceive that the '
'adminiﬅration 'of a ſociety Of men; is ever more
painful than that of one only. They willſiy from thi
'mzﬄ appnſſiw of all forms, where one ſingle member is;
'capable of 'controuling the whole, to take refuge under
rbe throne. No people long endure an ariﬅocratical
government, when they can apply elſewhere for' re.
dreſs. The lower orders 'of people may be enſlaved
for a time by a number of tyrants; but, upon the
'ﬁrﬅ opportunity, they will ever takea refuge in deſ
'potiſm or democracy.
As the Swedes are making concealed approached
'to_deſpotiſm, the French, On the other hand, are im
prmptiþly vindicating themſelves into freedom.
* When
[so]
When I conſider thoſe parliaments (the members'
'of which are all treated by the court, the preſidents
oſ which can act only by immediate direction) pre
ſume even to mention privileges and freedom, who
till of late received directions from the throne with
implicit humility; when this is conſidered, [cannot .
help fancying, that t/M gymſiu: oſfreezlam hat entered that
kingdom in diſguſt. Iſ they have but three weal' ma
imrc/n more ſucceﬃvely on the thron'e, 'be maſh 'wi/V be
[aid aſide, 'AND 'rue counru wru. CERTAXNLY ONCE
MOREBEFREE." .
Of the GERMANS man Durcu, he ſpeaks as fol
lows, and his opinion ſurely merits the moﬅ ſerious
attention; 'conſidering the great ſhare of political ſa
gacity, and 'ominOus foreſight he diſplayed, in thoſe
ſpeculations which we have juﬅ detailed.
The German empire, that 'remnant 'of the Ma
jeﬅy of ancient Rome, 'appears onthe eve 'of diſſolution.
The members of i'ts 'vaﬅ body want every tie of go
Vernment. to unite them, and ſeem feebly held to
gether, only by their reſpect for an ancient inﬅitu.
tion. The very name of country and countrymen,
which, in other nations, makes one of the ﬅrongeﬅ
bonds 'of government, has been here for ſome time
laid aſide; each Of its inhabitants ſeeming more
proud ofbeing called from the perry (late which gives
'th'em birth, than by'- the more well-known title of
German.
This government may be regarded in the light of
a ſevere maﬅer and a feeble opponent. The ﬅates
Which are now ſubject to the laws of the empire,
are only watching a proper occaſion to ﬂin oﬀ the
yoke; and thoſe which are become too powerful
'to be compelled to obedience, now begin to think
' of
E51]
of dictating intheir turn. The ﬅruggies in this
ﬅate are, therefore, not in order to preſerve, b'ut to,
. deﬅroy the ancient 'conﬅitutionz if one ſucceeds,
the' government becomes deſpotic; if the other,
ſeveral ﬅates will ſubſiﬅ without even nomﬂinal ſub-ſſ
ordination; but, in either caſe, the Germanic con;
ﬅitution 'will be no more. ,
When I compare the ﬁgure which the Dutch
make in Europe, with that they aſſume in Aſia, I
am ﬅruck with ſurprize. In _Aſia, I ﬁnd them the
great lords of all the Indian ſeas; in Europe, the
timid inhabitants of a altry ﬅate. No, longer the
sous of FREEDOM, but oi') AVARICE; no longer aſſert
ors of their rights by courage, but bynegociations;
fawning on thoſe who inſult them, andcrouching
under the rod of every neighbouring power, without
a friend to ſave them in. diﬅreſs, and without virtue
_to ſave themſelves; their government is poor, and
their private wealth will ſerve but to_ invite some
Setoiisougmc XNYADER- Vol. I. Letter 56, p. 292.
The Przdictian qf _a Zſſriter in the Complgqt zuagaaine, ﬁr
\ Uctober 1764., Page 368.
. , " They (the parliaments of France) await
the moment to ﬅrike the blow, that ſhall lay the
fabric of deſpotiſm in ruins! When this blow is
ﬅruck, the eﬀects-of it will be equal to thoſe of
magic. . The. cottage will be put on a level with
the palace -; the peaſant with-the prince; ranks ſhall
be confounded, , titler, diﬅinction, and birth, ſhall tum.
ble into an undiﬅinguiſhed heap of COnfuſion za now
[poral mation ſhall ﬅrike the view ofan admiring uni
verſe;
\
[vszl'
verſe 5 and France, like old Rome in her ﬁrﬅ ﬂights
to empire, ſhall appear with the ſceptre of univerſal
dominion bourgeoning in her hands. Out aſuni'w'ſal
earﬀyſion, order ſhall ariſe; the great, of nature's creat
ing," will aſſume their places; and the great, by title
and accident, 'Will drop deſhiﬅd into 'be common maſs (if 'be
people."
JAMES, LAMBE'RT.
ſhe miracle/ous Propbeſy of James Lambert, mw [ming at
Leeds, in Yorkſhire, to the Rete. Next/nati Dowlg'ng, an
Amerian Clergyman (new in London) by wþom it 'was
communicated to the Editor Iqﬅ Mantle.
Mr. Dowling being in England in_ the year 177q,
had occaſion t_o viſit Leeds, on ſome particular buſi-_
neſs, for a friend in Philadelphia, and being one
vevening in company with ſeveral gentlemen and la
dies of that town, the diſcourſe turned on the poſſi
bility oſ a foreknowlcdgc of future events, which
Mr. Dowling ſeemed to doubt, contrary to the opi- A
n'ions of the whole' company, who maintained the
exiﬅence of it, in certain perſons, to one of whom
they profeſſed to be ready to introduce him, if he
ﬅill perﬁﬅed in- his incredulity. Having aſſured
them hel very much deſired ſucha conviction, a party
Was-made', to attend him to the houſe ofJames Lamſi
þert on' the morrdw; a perſon who had been long
famed in- thatneighbourhood for his ſkill in foretel
ling future events. The next dayſeveral of the gen
tlemen accompanied Mr. Dowling, and they found
Lambert at home, and, to all appearance, prepared
to receivemhemz although (afterwards) every perſon
4 . privy
"*["53--J
rivy to the viſiaideclarcd, in the moﬀſolemn man,
ner, that they never dropped even the moﬅ diﬅant'
hint relative to it, nor did any ſervant hear any
thing of the matter. Mr. Dowling was ſpokeſman,
and declared his errand to the Seer; obſerving, at
the ſame time, that he wiſhed for an immediate exam
ple ok'his ſupern'atural abilitiesz becauſe, iſ he barely
related t'o him what was to come to paſs in future,
however true it might' prove in the end, ﬅill he
muﬅ probably' Wait a long time, or indeed might;
not live until 'the day oſ conviction. Lambert, with
out one moment's heﬁtation', replied, [haﬅened
home, expecting company at this'hour; for the
truth of which, he appealed to a boy who had been
with him. He then proceeded: " In my ﬁrﬅ ſleep
laﬅ night, I ſaw a middle-aged man, with a band
on, ſailing acroſs the great waters, from towards
the ſetting of the ſun, to conſult me, and you are
' the man."--Mr. D, then ſaid, Do you know my
name? to which L. replied,'No; Ido not; but you
are adminiﬅer, and have come,ſrom abroad, when
zbey tall- Engliſh; and you have: ﬁniſhed all your aſ?
faire (ſave one) and are deﬁr'ous toſi return home;
X Being aſked, Whether it would be poﬃble to corn
pleat that _om aﬀhir? he ſaid, he could not then tell;
Mr. D. aſked him, lf he could tell him any farther
articulars reſpecting himſelf? and he anſwered,
Bes; you haVe got a'deep ſcar on the back art of
the to'p of your head. Upon which Mr. . with
the utmoﬅ aﬅoniſhment took oﬀ his peruke, and
ſhewed the ſcar to the company, declaring, that as;
he was> always accuﬅomed to ſhave himſelf, he
thought it literally impoſſible that any perſon in
England could have ſeen that ſcar, and that, at any
. " H . tart
4
i
[54]
rate, no perſon in Leeds could hav ſeen it. Lam.
bert then proceeded: " l ſaw a y g child laying
on its mother's lap, its head covered with blood:
but I then ſaw a lone houſe, two coﬃns, and neither v
wiſe nor child."-At this, Mr. D. ſays, he was
taken in ſuch an agony of grief and ſurprize, that
he ſunk down in his chair, and had not power, for
a long time, to aſk anyvfarther queﬅions. It was
Mr. D.'s hard misfortune to have the only child his
wife ever bore him, a ﬁne boy, about two years oﬀ
age, killed by the kick of a horſe, and he loﬅ his
amiable wife about two years after. He had no
longer c0urage to aſk any more queﬅions reſpecting
his private aﬀairs, but he wiſhed the prophet to tell
him, from what country he came? he anſwered, All
I can tell is, that you come from the Weﬅ, and
over a large ſpace of ſea, and have not been long
here-but y0ur country will, before ten years, be
over-run with ſoldiers of diﬀerent nations, and of
their own kinsfolk, and you will all be in great
danger until they, w/Io Law alway: been your worﬅ m:
mx'cs, come to your aﬃﬅance; and then you ſhall
get great ſpoil of money and arms, and a great man
ſhall ariſe in your country, and you ſhall have a
king and no king *,. At this time, Mr. D.'s compa
nions having an engagement, deſired to be gone,
and he wasleft alone with Lambert, which indeed he
very much wiſhed. .He then told L. that he cer-
tainly muﬅ be miﬅaken in what he ſaid laﬅ reſpect
ing his country, which he' then told him Was North
America; as they were in full peace, without the
ſmalleﬅ appearance or probability of the occurrence
r vThis muﬅ allude to the Preſident GeneralWaſhington.
' bf
[55]
-ﬂrifaﬂamng pnþ'bﬂiri'Pcſſagz-s are extracted ſrhm aﬂLet
of any ſuch eye'nts as he had 1- related. The other
ſaid, he could' only ſpeak as to the light he had ;,
and that he would aſſuredly ﬁnd all thOſe events muﬅ
happen, perhaps 10.. his aſſ; which indeed turned out
ſo, as zMr. Dz. loﬅ nearly his all by the war. Mr. D.
then queﬅioned him ſeriouſly, as a clergyman, re.
ſpecting his art; telling him he hoped, for his ſal
* vation ſake, he made uſe 'of no diabolical or magical
r _arts; which Lambert aſſured him, with ſome con
fuſion (but not apparently ariſing from guilt) he did
not practiſe or underﬅand, but,that he hoped he was
a good Chriſtian, 'and hadz never injured any one.
KThe, only account he- ſeemed able' to give,' Was
Syſithat __the ſhapes and ſhadows of things (to'uſe
own words) 'came into his mind-ſometimes ſleep
zing, and ſometimeswaking; and that it had been
ſo with him nearlyas long as he could remember:
that ſometimes he. had this foreſight ;.at_ others nq
more than other people."
-' *DR. 'SMOLLET. \_
ter ſin! . by the Inte,Dr;**SfmI/er, a few Month: Before'
bis Dear/2, 'a lb: Rev. Dr. *, aſ *f* '*, Nar
rbumlm'land, Jwbo bar pblitrly entry/led the Original to
the Editor. > i .. . .. , - "
I
'V As the ſentiments of dying men, particularly
A dyingcauthors, * have been ſometimes looked upon
as prophetic, you will be inclined, perhaps, to pay
the greater regard-to' the following political ſpe__
eCUlatlQﬂS; and,,in all human probability, they are
the laﬅ, of any kind, which you iwill' ever receive
' 2 . from
_MH
i_56 1
rein me; for I feel the chill hand of health gnat
dually ﬅealing on'me as thoſe calamities'are ﬅeal-i
ing upon our European States, which l foreſee, but
ſhall never live to experience. But*l am perfect
ly religned, and nearly wearied to death," with a
life, that both ih its private and public condition,
is the ſordid ſlave of intereﬅ, prejudice, and folly.
The firﬅtmubles that are likely' to enſue, Will pro
_Tceed, I think, from that overgrown and uſeleſs ſyſ:
ter'n of coldni'zation, with Which ſeveral natiOns'
A (particularly our bw'n) haVe bu-rthcded themſelves. r
But, although the inhabitants of that immenſe'and
unwieldy empire of Spain in Smith' Amerita, are
ſuﬃciently diſaﬀected and diſpoſed toir'evolt', they
are there ſo faſt baund by the chains of deſpoviſm;
'ſuperﬅition, and indolence, that it'is not probable
they will take the lead, o'r attempt any thing for their
emancipation- from the cruel yoke Under which they
groan; until either by the eſpecial'favour of Hea
ven they ſhall become enlightened, or ſhall be acted
upon by ſome conſiderAble external forcez in Which
caſe, the empire ofSpain, in thoſe parts, would paſs
away like a ſhadow. Of all 'ther kingdoms of Eu
rope, I think our own ﬅands in the greateﬅ danger
reſpecting her colonies, and in the leaﬅ with regard
to her aﬀairs at home. At home you have a few ra-'
dicaliy diſcontented men, with a vaﬅ and undoubted
ma'ority, who areinviolably attached to the preſent
deſiﬁabli'ſhmentx 'bin oiir American .Colonies,-we may
'ſ almoﬅ-ſay, they-are all Republicans to a man; that
'nothing _but- the tie ofintereﬅ, and the want of
' power- .to ﬅand alone, has-hitherto preſervedghem in
ſſ 'their allegiance air-the crowneſ-Great Britain, which '
(you-may relysupon it) they will embrace t/n ſhy? J'ai'
- - _ .' ct opportunity
Ll '37 'la
bþertmzity' gnﬁ'rdy to ſhake Wohld-'\= ,
event, 'in-my ideas, 'be at all-dlſadvantſiageous t'othe
parent' ﬅate, or to the Colonies themſelvesgjprovids
ed it were poſſible it couldſi happen without loſſ and '
bloodſhedg which, I-fear, the preſentﬅockof witſ
d'o'm'and moderation, on eitherﬁde, can aﬀord-us
no Certain aſſurance of: Totufn 'Our eyes towards
our Weﬅ India'lﬂdnd's, I Fthink' the proſpect looks \
ﬅill more gloomy and alarming. - I't has ever excit- .
ed my'aſ'ſOnlſhment,\-that nobody, either in England
or thoſe iſlands, ſhould entertain the ledﬅ dread. or ,
forecaﬂ' of . the dangdrodsſicbnﬁquonces: of intro-r
'ducing ſuch an immenſe m-ulclt-ude of Africansmcs
into them, 'or-1 the ſmalleﬅ 3c0mpunction for the
knormdus'widk'edneſs of the' ſſact,v,exaggcrated. is it
is a thouſand .d-ogrees,: by being perpetrated byme
whoſe nation'ſets ſohigh' a- value uponitheir-own li
berty, and who pretendvto ſuch .-a'n averſion, from
deeds of cruelty,v If we havenolapptehenſions 'of
t-'he vengeancexoſ divine juﬃce;--for,the count'leſjs
end-horrid barbaritﬁexzwhieh ate conﬅanly-exerciſed
onthe-miſerahle ﬂaves of thoſe' Colonies, ﬅill-com
lmon ſiſenſe ought to teach ns,*ch>.ro is a point beyond
which human. aﬀairs. cannot Thatzit is not pot',
.ﬁble that 'ſuch numbers, whopoﬀeſs every day they
'live the power 'oftheir own freedomgwill ſuﬀer ſuch
extremitiesforevern Thhtth'cﬂaw and' come at ſhme
period or other, 'which may bothis year as well hathe
next: and that whEn it does- come, it bt-in swith
it deſolation impoﬃblerto be withﬅood, an death
in every ſhape. 'That a revolt of _the ﬅaves muﬅ
happen' before manly years, I will venture to predict;
and if itſhould happenon one! iiﬂand, to whatever
-* It is_i.mpoﬃ-blc here notþt'o Pecollw the horro'rs of St. Domingox
- European -
[ 58, l
European nation it belongs, the Weﬅ India Iſle: will
never afterwards be in aﬅate qfſaﬂty. To return to ou'i'
own Continent, France appear: ta m' to be the, proba
bIeLt/ze'dirt' aſ an) material change. The preſent faſhion
oſ handling abﬅract queﬅions 'oſ religion and go;
vernment, ſo eagerly adopted oflatc by a great num
ber of people oſconſideration in that country, is,
no doubt, the high Pro'ad to truth- and juﬅice ; but,
'unfortunately ſo'r mankind, it muﬅzncccſſarily run
' through the conﬁnes of bloodſhed. and deſolation.
Amongﬅ all the beﬅ informed people of that coun
try, with whom I hare had the opportunity of corn
Verﬁng, there ſeeme to exiﬅ an-enthuſiaﬅic paſſion
for the diſcovery oſ moral troth, and a moﬅ ardent
zeal ſor its propagation. And inzthis laudable frame ſi
of mind, ſeems particularly included,.a commiſſerz
ation for the ſuﬀerings of the lower claſſes oſ man,
fkind ; and a deſire to relieve them-from the-ſhackles
t ct in ſi-which they have been, ſo long bound, by reli
gious and political-ſtands. If we conſider the weak
neſs, proﬂigacy, and abandoned debauchery of the
French court; which they, whoſe ſituations intitle
'hernto be the beﬅ: judges, repreſent as a ſecond
' "deam z the poverty, miſery, and diſcontent oſ the
'lower ctclaſſes;-.and- _the violent deſire of change;
glowing and burning in the breaﬅs of thoſe who are
'the moﬅ able, and indeed the only people in whoſe
pawer it is to bring that change about; we need not'
'heﬁtate.-to-faſſert, that ſome great revolution muﬅ
enſue, in the courſe of a few years, in the govern
ment, religion,'and' manners of the people of that
enuntry. indeed, from the beﬅ general view which
"I am abſſle toſorm, of the internal political [fate oſ
the kingdom of France, I cannot bring myſelf to
" 'l' ' X" * - believe,
'iI.*
44!4444
.
l 59 1
I'n_\-_ i
\ .
believe, 'that the preſent deſpotic ſyﬅem can, at any
rate, continue more than twenty years longer. If reli
gion has invented and. nouriſhed thoſe ſrauds, upon A
whom the deſpatiſm of France was founded; and
the belief of that religion is now almoﬅ obliterated
from amOngﬅ all ranks, what is in future to ſupport
ſuch a government, even when the general intereﬅ
ſeems loudly to demand its demolition? That thev
Change, come when it will, my? be thorougb, violent,
and bloody, we may. fairly prognoﬅicate, both from
' the known character of thoſe who are likely to have
the chief hand in the reſormation, and from that of'
the common people oſ France, whom their whole '
hiﬅory proves to be the moſt ſanguinary, un'pri'ne.
, cipled, and barbarous of any populice in Europeq -
Were it poſſible ſor me to live to witneſs it, I ſhould
by no means wonder to ſee the principles of' Re
publicaniſm predominant for' a while in France, ſorx
it is the property of extremes to meet; and our ab;
ſiract rights naturally lead to that form of govern
ment, and it is not the ſeaſonſito moderate abﬅrac
tion, during the fury and concuﬃon oſ political.
earthquakes. ' -
Whenever _a Revolgtion upon ſuch. grounds as
theſe ſhall happen in France, the ﬂame of war will
(be univerſally lighted up-throughout' Europe; either'
from the inhabitants of other countries-inﬅanta,
neouſiy catching the contagion, or from the appro
henſions of their reſpective governments. But
whenever the great maſs of mankind ſhall become
enlightened, it will be as vain as perilous for go
vernments to attempt to combat principles, which
can only be eﬀected with ſucceſs during vthe reign oſ
ignorance and ſuperﬅition. 'l ſee-it, in the cleareﬅ .
* >- ' ſſ 'lighgſſ
' I
[60]
light, that the people of France, Germany, and
Italy (but more eſpecially the latter) are about to beeſſ
come weary of the impoſitions of religion, and the
galling fetters of ſlavery. And I behold a new or- '
der of people about to, ariſe in Europe, which ſhall
give laws to la\v-givers, diſcharges to prieﬅs, and
leſſons to kings. ' ' _
As for our own country, * * * * * *.
MARTHA nay. _ . - .'
ſi; Frxdr'ctiomiqf Mart/m Ery; of Camndfſh, _iyr Suﬂbli,
in 'be _ytar 1764., extracted from the Mahſidﬂrz'pt of
Francis --.--,. Eſq. (ſ Cambridge/bin
ſiMartha Ery was a little woman, between ﬁfty and ,
ſixty years of age, ſupported partly by the pariſh,
and in part by her own labour at the ſpinning-wheel.
She was looked upon by her neighbours as a comﬄ
poſition of idiotiſm and lunacy. In general ſhe was
3 totally ſilent, except ſometimes talking tp herſelf as
ſhe ſpun ; when her words were invariably, " I don'r,
Idon't; the ſpirit ſay I do." But, at particular in-_v
tervals, ſhe would burﬅ out into the moﬅ violent and
raving exclamations; talking in a ﬅrange manner
about the doings and workings of the ſpirit within
her, and foretelling events which were to happen
among the neighbours, mixed with a great deal of
ﬅrange' diſcourſe of things and circumﬅancesA of 4
which they had no knowledge. On theſe occaſions
ſhe had uſually ſome auditors in the ſcholars of a
well-known acadcmy in the village, kept at that '
time þy Mr. Stephen Brown, a gentleman of high
ſi ' ' . character
[6131.
character for learning an'd abilities in his profeſſion,
Mr. ---, the author of this account, was, at that
time, a pupil of Mr. Brown, in order to his prepa
ration for the univerſity. He had often beena hearen
'of old Fat Ery (as ſhe Was called by the ſcholars)
and thinking there was ſomething very wonderful in
what ſhe uttered, as repeatedly ſolicited Mr. Brown
to be one of her-hearen. The old gentleman never
failed to ridicule the mad ſallies of Pythia', as he
ſiyle'd the woman, and could not, for a long time, be _
revailed upon to throw away a' quarter of an hour
in attending to her diſcourſes. At laſh-this woman
in one of her raving ﬁts, had manyct times repeated
ſome very ﬅrange ſpeeches reſpecting the rector of
the pariſh, and was inceſſantly calling out his name
in the night, to the rerror and diﬅurbance of the
people'with whom ſhe lived. This being carried to
the Rev. Dr. T--, the rector, he communicated it
to his friend Mr. Brown, who was then prevailed
upon to accompany him to the woman; the young
gentleman (author of this Memoir) being of the
party. They found her ſpinning, and the inﬅant
they entered therroom, with all the appearance of
of the moﬅ violent ecﬅacy painted in her counten
ance, and expreſſed by hergeﬅures, ſhe burﬅ out,
exclaiming; " Writel write! you that can write;
the ſpirit ſays Wrire!" "She was the next moment
calm; but looking with a ﬅedſaﬅ and phrenzical
kind of look at the Dr. fram'whom ſhe ſoon with
drew her eyes, and then ſilently purſued her ſpinning.
_Nor was it poſſible to obtain another word, or even a '
look fromvher. _It 'preſently occur-red, that the dii
itppointment aroſe from their not being furniſhed
with writing materials, and which could not be pro;
' a I ſi ctier
[62")
cured in the cottage; ſo that they agreed to leave
her for that day, and to return preciſely at the ſame
hour oxﬃEÞnging; but in as private a manner
as poſſible, havr genjoined ſecrecy to the only per
ſon 'ho was in the houſe with her. They found
her liext day in the ſame ﬅate of mind, _and in the
ſameiﬁtuation which they had at ﬁrſt experienced
the preceding: the rector entered ﬁrﬅ, and ſhe look
ed upſſwith a ﬅrange kind of ſupernatural r fury in
her eyes, and thruﬅing her head forward, and ex
tending her arms, bawled out ** the High Prieﬅ!
the High Prieﬅ ſhall never eat another Chriﬅmas*
dinner! VVrite! write! you that know how to write;
'write for the ſpirit!" The young gentleman being
aware of this, from the experience of the day be
fore, was prepared, and ſatisﬁed her that he was
writing. She inﬅantly went on (looking at Mr.
Brown in a _very earneﬅ and piercing manner) and
exclaimed, " ﬁve ﬅumps more, and the ﬅumperl'
ſhall want a wooden jacket-" She then continued
to predict death and ﬅrange changes in ſeveral
neighbouring ſamilies, many of which predictions
have ſince been fulﬁlled; but, certain of them being
- ﬅill in ſuſpenſe, and the period oſ their accom
pliſhment being plainly marked, it would. not be
proper to particularize them. She afterwards went
into a ﬅrange rant about winds and earthquakes,
and the ſpirit croﬃng the waters, which it was im
poﬃble to take down correctly, but all which ſhe
uttered, that could be committed intelligibly to
' Dr. T ſeemed to receive this ﬅrange ſpeech with emotion,
and ſaid not a word to the woman. He died in leſs than three
inonths from that day.
+ Mr Brown had awoodcales- . .
' .\ _. writing
ſ 63 ]
writing, Was as follows: "The may-buſh * oſ four
ſcore, ſhall ſet open the priſon door-a young man
of noble blood ſhall come out of the North, and
he ſhall ride by the ſpirit on the winds, and ſet on
the Waves, and he ſhall trouble the money-changers,
and he ſhall fall by the hands of the .Q1een. O
croſs the water! croſs the water! the ſpirit ſays,
croſs the water! Kings 1' ſhall die, and more kings
yet! When I white ﬂowers ſade, kings and queens
ſhall tremble and be afraid. 7 And I looked and ſaw
carcaſſes buried together by ten thouſands; And
the whole country covered with a ﬂame, and it
reached to the neighbours; and all was on ﬁre when
lieſt it." . '
The writer was with her many times afterwards,
accompanied with another young gentleman of' the
name of A--r, whom ſhe told " the ſea ſhould
not drown him, nor ﬅrange lands kill him, but he
ſhould come home, and go to bed with his father."
And it is remarkable, this gentleman afterwards went
abroad with Sir George Rodney, and on his return,
died the day after his father, with whom he was bu
ried'in the ſame grave. 'She alſo farther ſaid, at
* This appears to have been a prediction of Lord George Cor.
don's mob, which, in May 1'730, ſet open the priſons. He may
be laid to have " fallen by the hands of a Ween," having been
impriſoned for libelling the OLeen of France.
By a moﬅ ﬅrange concurrcnce of circumﬅances,_ it happened
'that Lord George, being on a viſit to the author of this account
more than ﬁve years before the time of the riots, actually rea
over the propheſies of Martha Ery, and with great ap arent at.
tention. The truth of this can be vouched for by Br. Hugh
Mayſon, now reſident in Edinburgh, and ſeveral gentlemen at
'this time in London. And Lord George himſelf frequently men
tioned the circumﬅance to his intimate friends while in Newgate.
+ King of Sweden aſſaſlinated.-King of France.
3 'White ﬂowers, lilies of Fra'nce,'&c. &e.
a . this
l 64 i
this time, V and it ſhall cm'ne to paſs in 'tithes and
ſeaſons, and ſoon and often, and nigh 'at hand, and
'mountains ſhall be pulled down, and 'crooked trees
.lhall be ﬅraightened, and thoſe who are too high
by 'be headſhall beſhori'iul, and allſhall 'be made writ, and
poor rav'ens ſhall be fed;" with a vaﬅ deal more
which could not be collected at that time. Many
gentlemen, it is ſaid, who were edricatcd in Caven
diſh-ſchool, have' now in their poſſeſſion ſeveral
ﬅrange prolpheſies which ſhe uttered, plainly point
ing to the rench Revolution, the deﬅruction ofthe
Turkiſh empire, and thoſetroubl'es which are now
about to agitat'e the world. She died about the be
Zginning of the year 1766, and was buried on the vil
'age ﬁde 'of the church-yard.
f A few years after, Mr. ---, having occaſion to
paſs through Cavendiſh, called upon Mrs Brown,
'who had t en retired from the academy; when, in
their dictſCourſe of old matters which had aſſed at
ſchool, the ſubject of Martha Ery was acudentally
introduced. Mr. B. made a ſudden pauſe, as iſ to
'recollect ſomeWhat; and caﬅing his eyes downwards,
towards his wooden leg, he ſaid, mournfully and
with aﬁgh, " A'ye! ſurely this is the ﬁfth!" From
'that time he was ſeized with amelancholy, which
'never left him until his death, 'and that happened in
a very few mouths. -> -
HANNAH GREEN.
ﬁt Predicti'om a;" Hannab Great, rowned] called Ling'
Bab, new living mar Leeds, it: for-&ſhire.
This woman has been, for many years, &mous
in her neighbourhood, for the gift of foretelling ſu
' i _ \ ture'
i 65 J
ture, events. in the year 1785. Dr. * * * *, of
Sheﬃeld (who _has been ſo obliging as to furniſh the
editor with the following particulars) being at Leeds,
hadthe curioſity to pay a viſit to the noted Hannah
Green. He ﬁrﬅ queﬅioned her reſpecting the fu
ture fortunes of a near relation of his. who Was
then in circumﬅances of diﬅreſs, and indeed in pri
ſon. She told him immediately his friend's trouble
would continue full three times three years, and h'eWould
then experience 'a great deliverance; which, in fact,
is on the point of being literally veriﬁed, as he
is at this inﬅant a priſoner in the King's Bench.
He then aſked her, If ſhe poſſeſſed any forei
knowledge of what was about to _come to paſs upa
on th'e great ﬅage of the world? to which ſhe re"
piied in the aﬃrmative. She ſaid, War would be
rbrcatmed ame, but'would not happen; but, the ſecond
time, it would blaze out in all its horrors, and ex
tend to all the neighbouring countries; and that
two COUHULCS, at .a great diﬅance one from the
other, would, in conſequence, obtain their freedom,
although after hard ﬅruggles. After the year 1'790,
ſhe obſerved, many great perſons, even Kings and
Wenns, would loſe their lives, and that not byfai'r
man. In 1794, a great warrior, of high blood, is
tpfa'ii in the ﬁeld of battle; and, in 1795, a diﬅant 't
hatitm, who have been dragged from their own
country, will riſe, as one man, and deliver them
ſelyes from, their oppreſſors.
* I know n'ot what people this can allude to, 'unleſs the Negro
Man',
ST.
{_ 66'
ST. THOMAS OF BECKET.
The Lily ſhall remain in the better Park, and
ſhall enter into the land of the Lion, they wanting
his aſſiﬅance, which the beaﬅs of his own kingdom
ſhall tear 'with their teeth, and ſhall ﬅand in the
ﬁeld among the thorns oſ his kingdom; at length
ſhall the Son oſ Man come with a great army paſſing
the waters, carrying beaﬅs in his arms, whoſe king
dom is in the Land of NVooll, and feared by the
whole world. The Eagle ſhall come out of the
Eaﬅ with his wings ſpread upon the Sun, and a
great multitude of his people to the help of the
Son of Man. In that year, camps ſhall be torn,
great fear ſhall be in the world, and in ſome parts'
of the land of the Lion ſhall war' be amongﬅ ma
ny Kings, and there ſhall be a FLOOD or BLOOD.
The Li/y'* ſhall loſe his Crown, with which the Son
of Man ſhall be crowned, and for ſome years follow
ing ſhall there be many battles amongﬅ Chriﬅians.
. . . . . . The head of the world ſhall be to the
earth. The Son of Man and the Eagle ſhall pre-ſi
vail, and there ſhall be peace over the whole face
of the earth: then ſhall the Son of Man receive
a wonderful Sign, and ſhall go into the Land of
Promiſe. ' '
The above St. Thomas of Becket lived in the
twelfth century. The perſecution he ſuﬀered ren
dered his name illuﬅrious and venerable._ He was
born at London of noble parents, who 'derived more
* Franee. h
O nour
[67]
honour from their virtue than their nobility. Fore
tune placed himunder'theeronage of Theobald,
Archbiſhop of Canterbury, who diſcovered in him
ſuch talents anddiſpolitiom to protect the intereﬅs
of the church,' that he admitted him into 'holy
orders, and gave him the Arch-deaconry of, his me;
tropolitan, So much had' he noticed in Thomas of
Becket, his force ctof mind and the ﬁrmneſs ctof his
virtue, that, the' Chancellor. of the kin dom being
dead, 'the Archbiſhop, who had mue? inﬂuence
with HenrylL, Propoſed Becket as the moﬅ prqch
to ſucceed to'the vacant SChaneellorſhip. .- Asthe
place required a ﬂateſman the moﬅ able and ſaith7
ful, and Becket being m'Oﬅ eminently poſſeſſedbſif
thoſe rare qualities, theking, knowing that he could
not make a better choice, did not heſitate to ap.
point him to the important oﬃce. Hehad no
ſooner taken poſſeﬃon of, the aþpointment,ct . than
he evinced himſelf not onl'y capable of the charge,
but of more diﬃcult and weighty; aﬀairs of the ca
þinet. Theobald having, ſometime after, leftſiby
death the chair of Canterbtlryv vacant, Henry obliged
' him to accept of this elevated eccleſiaﬅical dignity.
The King deſired alſo, 'that he wOuld' ﬅill continue
, to act as his Chancellor. But Becket. refuſed to
obey him, and the zeal that he afterwards ſhewed,
in defence of eccleſiaﬅical rights, greatly oﬀended
the King, ſo as to oblige Becket to leave England.
He retired to FranCe, uhere he was openly pro.
tected by Lewis Vll, Being afterwards returned to
his church at Canterbury, 'he was murdered by four
aſſaﬃns, at the altar, on the 29th of October, 1176.
ACCording to ſeveral hiﬅories, his tomb was ho
noured with the power of performing ſeveral mi*
racles.
DR.
't 68 1
DR. SlBLY, 1734.
Speaking aﬅrologically, he ſays, the active poſt,
_ tion of Venus and Mercury, conjoined, denote much -
reﬅleſſneſs and inﬅability in the councils of France,
which ſeem diﬅracted by the arbitrary will of the
Gallic Ogeen, here repreſented by Venus, upheld
and aﬃﬅed by light, volatile, time-ſerving men,
pre-noted by Mercury, the creatures of the anw,
who, from motives of avarice, and views of ambi
tibn, will be forward to raiſe cabals-to oppoſe the
common hopes and intereﬅs ofſithe people-to
plunge the nation into diſcord and contention, and
eventually to bring about diſputes with their. neigh
bours, or waﬅeful war among themſelves.
' Hence will probably follow great diﬅurbances
amongﬅ the heads of the church, and new diſq
coveries in the annals of popiſh ſuperﬅition and
religious perſecution, which the people of that un
happy country ſeem inclined to ſhake oﬀ, with the
ſhackles of ſlavery, miſery, and want. In ﬁne, here
is every proſpect, that ſome very important event
'will happen in the POLITICS of FRActNCE, ſuch as
rnay DETHKONE, or very nearly touch the LlFE of
the '_ſſKINc, and' make victims oſ many great and
ſi illuﬅrious men in church and ﬅate, preparatory to
a REVOLUTION or change in the aﬀairs oſ that em.
pire, which will at once ASTONlSH AND SURPRXSE me
surmouan NATlQNS ll
va,
[69]
DR. GIDEON HERVEY.
Doctoi:Hervey,"dneof the College" of Phyſicians
in- London, when;a young man,.deﬁgned to tra
vel towards Paduar. For this purpoſe, he went
to Dover with' ſeveral others; When he ſhewed
his paſs, Which was cuﬅomary at that time, to
the Governor, he was tbld that he, muﬅ not go,
that he muﬅ be kept a priſoner._ The. Doctor
deſired to know the reaſon, and in what he 'had
tranſgreſſed: To which he was anſwered, by)
the Governor, that it zwas his pleaſure. 'The
packet boat hoiﬅed ſail in the evening. which
was very clear. The Doctor 'very much lament
'ed that he ſhould be with-held from accompany
ing his companions. iBat this regret ſoon ſub
ſided, when he perceived. a terrible ﬅorm ariſe.
The nexe\day the"me'lanchoſily" news was 'brOught
of the pac t boat beingſloſiſſ, and all the' paſ-'
ſengers ' drow ed. _The Doctor was unknown to
the Governor. Butft'h'e' day before" he had, in a
dream, a per ct viſion of _Doctor Hervey, vwho
came' to Dove to proceed, in the packet to Ca.- '
lais. " 'Inſi-the dream,' the Govemor' was warned
againﬅ ſuﬀering him to leave Dover. ' The 'next
day the Governor related to the Doctor the cauſe '
of his' detaibing him', and which had proved the'
preſervation of his life. The Doctor, who 'was
a pious ood _man, told this remarkable ﬅory, .to
moﬅ of is ﬁ'iends"'andſiacquaintances. ' *
l. r .
'a
' X BRAD
J .
[70]
BRAD\VAKAIN, .
In his preface to his learned work, De Cauſa
Dci, relates a dream he had in the night, when
he was writing his Confutation of 'Pelagius He
thought he was' caught up into the air, where
Pelagius came and endeavoured to caﬅ him head
long 'to the earth. But, after many'ﬂruggles,
Brad-ivarain- prevailed, and caﬅ his antagoniﬅ, Po,
lagius, to' the earth. . His neck being broken in
the fall, Pelagius-died-at. his feet, which, he ſaid,
aﬀorded him conſiderable ſpirits to 'purſue the -
work he had begun. *
* nuousws THE RdſiMAN EMPEROR.
' The night before this emperor was to ﬁght a
deciſive battle in the Phillipick ﬁelds, his phyſiz
cian dreamt that Pallas appeared to him, and
charged him to vadviſe his maﬅer, although indiſ
poſed', not to neglect being-in. the ﬁeld, whatever
danger threatened ; for that, he ſhould aſſuredly
be victorious. Auguﬅus, remembering the' fate
of julius Caeſar, who ﬂighted the premonitions of
Artemidorus and his wife Caliphurnia, took the
advice given in the dream of his phyſician, who
ordered him to, remove himſelf from his tent.
Obſerving this precaution, he avoided being kill
cd by the guards of Brutus, who afterwards ruſh
ed into it to ſurprize and murder him. Having
eſcaped in ſafety, he afterwards gained the battle.
_CRGZSUS
'i Zl 1
.2. "ſiſi ' \ I I* 'L'slaor'rr mi r
- warily ſ - ;v _, I I \.!* ..
a .-.' i i -.*"N '--' "-'
- This monarch, ſo diﬅinguiſhed, in hiſtory forz
his immenſeriches, had-'tworſons- _Qﬂﬂz ofthe,
who was conſiderably ſtranger = than rthc other. an
was.to Iſucceed. to &morowe-dream one nighe
that he wasxskillcdby a ſwordz'Thisdream-made
ſuch an inipr'oﬃon. upon North-an. roareth ſuch
a diſaﬅe'r, he took all precautions imaginablei '
He ſuﬀered no one with any armour to come
near him. Even his guards, and every other at
tendant, he would not ſuﬀer to approach him
with-a ſwcrd on, or any'other iron inﬅrument.
But his deﬅiny was ﬁxed, and was, therefore, be
yond his power to Laverta; for ſome time after it
happened that a monﬅrous wild boar having, de
vaﬅed the country, the peaſants petitioned Croeſus
for redreſs, or ſome means to be deviſed for the
deﬅruction of this devouring beaﬅ. This pro
miﬁng ſon prevailed with his father to ſuﬀer.
him to go, with. ſome nobles, to deﬅroy the boar.
In attacking this furious creature, one of the
party made a violent thruﬅ with his-ſword, which,
unluckily, miſſed the beaﬅ, and pierced the
thigh of the gallant prince, who unfortunately
died ſoon after of the wound. '
SIR CHRISTOPHER WREN.
This celebrated architect being at Paris, about
1671, he was ill, feveriſh, made but little-ct water,
. and had a pain in his reins. He ſent for a phy
i ſician,
ſ 72 1
ſician, who adviſed him to be bled; for he thdught
that he had a -pleuriſy. But loſing blood diſas
greeing with his conﬅitution, he deferred it a
day longer. That nigh; -he- dreamt that. he
was in a place where palmſitrees grew, and that a.
woman, _in a romantick habit,- oﬀered 'him ſome
dates; Conſidering 'this as a providential inter
feren'ce in ſavom- of his cure, he the' next day
ſent far date-s, which cured him 'of'rthe pain in
his ſcinSs"-' \,' \ ' i .**
F I N_ l B
, _zo 31: a:
U'
NctEW BOOKS,
JUST PUBLXSHED BY \ \
, B. C R O S B, Y,
(Nm 4,)
STATIONERS COURT, LUDGATE STREET, LONDON
M ct
ROSBY's LADIES NEW ROYAL POCKET COMPANION. chi
helliſhed with abeautiful Engraving' oſ-'I'reachery defeated, and
the Traitor become the Victim, from Hutton's A-naſſntus and Elmtra,
&e. Price lS. bound in Red Sheep, with Pockets; or neatly extra
bohnd with Claſp or Tuck, IS. 6d. , Containing; Treachery defeated,,
and the Traitot become the Victim of his own Machinations-Eclipſen
in 1795-Table of the Moon-Holidays kept at the Public Oﬃces+
Buying and ſelling Stock-Royal Family of Great Britain-Tahle of' _
Fiſh, Fleſh, and Fowl, in Seafon-Precedency among Ladies-A Me-'
morandum and Caſh Book, ruled for every Day in jthe Year-Advice
to the Ladies, on their Friendſhips with Men, and on the Choice of a
Huſband-Edwin and Amelia-Ou'the Seduction of Female lnno
cence-'_Mary Been of Seots, a MonodyA-The Power of Time-The
Roſe-On the Partiality of Men-Human Incnnſiﬅency, _or the Uni
V'erſal Portrait-The, Robin Red Breaﬅ-The Female Prat'tler-New
Songs ſung at Vauxhall during the laﬅ Seaſon-Rates of Hvzickney'
Coachmen-Rates of Watermen-Kings and Weens (iſ-England
Penee and Shilling Table-Avoirdupois Weight, Troy Weight, and
Cloth MeaſiireeMarketing Tables-A Table to caﬅ up Exſſpences
or Wages-New Country Dances. \
CROSBY'S FORTUNE-TELLING- ALMANACK, for 1795, Con
taining, The Hiﬅory 0F the Origin', Diſperſion, and,Manners of the
Giplies-Holidays and Remarkable Days-Viﬁble Eclipﬁes-Tahle of'
the Moon-The Royal Family of Great Britain-Holidays kept at
the Publie Oﬃces-Marketing Tables-New Country Danccs-The'
inﬂuence of, the Planets and _Celeﬅial Spheres, proved from their
apparent eﬀects on natural productions-Palmiﬅry-Dreams-Moles
wPhyﬁognomy-Aﬅrology-Si gns of Diſeafcs-Predictions, for Births
on any day of the week_Diſaﬅrous, Days in every month in the
year-Princeſs of Brunſwick-How to judge of the Weather. Em
belliſhed with a Portrait of the Princeſs of Brunſwick; and a View
of the Gypſey Hauſe at Norwood. Price lP. bound in red ſheep
with pockets; or, extrazts. 6d. , ſſ
STATF. of FRANCE, intMay, 1794. Tranﬂated from the Original
of Le Comte de Montgaillard, by joſhua L.Will<inſon, of Gray's
lnn. Price rs.6d. . A ſi
An entire and complete HlSTORY, Political and Perſorlal, oſ the
ROROUGHS of GREAT BRlTAIN; together with the ClNQL-'E
PORTS. Containing, the Time of each Borough being ﬁrﬅ ſummoned
To ſend Members to Parliament; origin and extent of Charter; con
tradictory and diſputed Rights of Election; Nature oſBnrgage-tennre, \
Corporationd, and other excluſive Privileges: Convictions of Brzhery,
Corruption, &c.; Number of Voters in each Borongh; Names of
Patrons and Proprietors who inﬂuence Eleetions, &e. Second Edition,
corrected and improved. Two vols. 8vo. Price 145. in boardc.
A CORRECT TABLE of the preſent PARLIAMENTARY REPRE
SENTATION of GREAT BRlTAlN; containing, at one view, a Liﬅ
of the Members, Number of Voters, and the Right of Electionin
'ach City and Borough; Returninfz; Oﬃcers: when ﬁrﬅimpritileged
to ſend to Parliament; with the Names of the' Patrons or Proprietorsſi
who inﬂuence the Return of the Members. Price IS. ' ' ,
EVANS's _[UVENlLE PlECES: deſigned for the Youth of hotll
Sexee. Second Edition, enlarged and corrected. Price zst 6d. ſewed,
'r 35. bound, Hot-preſſed 35. ſewed,or neatly hound, 34, 6d.
A LOOKlNG-GLASS For a Right Honourable Mendicart; or, the
real Character of a certain great Orator; With important Politu'al.
Obſervations: in particular the Marrow oſ the slave Weﬅinn ; and of'
that reſpecting the Laws of Dehtor and Creditor, &c. &e. By an Old
Member of Parliament. Second Edition. Price xz, ſi _
AMANTUS and ELMIKA: or, lNGRATlTUDE. Exempliﬁed in *
the Character of lngratus. By Geo. Hntton. Price 35. THE
\
t 'THE HOP OFFlCER's DIRECTORY
'IN CHARGlNG THE DUTY, or PLANTER'S ASSISTANT, ſhew
ing, at one View, the whole Duty, from One Pound to One Ton.
Price is. A new Edition: By Samuel Rogers.
CROSBY'S MODERN SONGSTER, being a Selection of the moﬅ
_ approved Songs from the late Operas; with many favourite Songs'
ſung at the diﬀerent Places of Public Entertainment; and a Frontiſ
piece of Mrs Mountain and Miſs Hopkins, in Netley Ahhey; alſo a
Vignette Title Page, of Mrs. Martyr, in the Travellers in Switzerland.
Containing upwards of 500 Songs, particularly Sporting, Patriotic,
and Conititutional, &c. &e. Price as. 6d. ſewed, or neatly bound in
ted s. -
TlZlOMSON's SEASONS; a neat Pocket Edition, with an elegant
Ingravmg of' his preſent Majeﬅy. Price only is. ſewed.
Mrs. ROWSON's (late Miſs 'Beverley's) COLLECTlON of POEMS,
on Various Subjects, with two elegant Plates. Price 45. 6d. ſewed;
BRUNARD'S HlSTORY of MARlA ANTOſNETTE, late Week'
of France. Containing a great variety of curious original Anecdotes, ,
private lntrigues, &e. see neverbeſore publiſhed. Alſo an account of
the principal Characters belonging to the Couit of Liuis the XVI.
With the Trial at Large, and particular account of her Execution.
Price is. 6d. ſſ _
The UNFORTUNATE LOVERS, a' Stery founded on Facts: to
which is added the Lady's Counſellor, refpecting LOVe, Courtſhip,
Marriage, Divoree, &o. By-the Author of Retired Pleaſures. Price
ts. 6d. - ' ' .
The CONJUROR UNMASKED, a New Edition, with an elegant
Frontiſpiece,being a full Explanation of many ſurpriling Perform
ances. By Denton and others. Price as. .
(F-CONOMY of HUMAN LlFE, in Two Parts. Price zs. neatly
bound.
The DEATH of CAIN,in Five Books, after, the manner of the
Death of Ahel By a Lady. Price zs. 6d. bound.
- A NARRA'l'lVE of the LOSS of the WlNTERTON Eaﬅ Indiztman,
On her Pailage to,India, the zoth of Auguﬅ 1797.; with the Names of
the l'aiſengers, Oﬃcers, and Crew, that were ſaved and loﬅ. Price 6d-..
IARVlb's Neat Pocket DlCTlONARY. Price 35. ſheep, or 35. 6d.
calf, printed on ﬁne vellum paper. - _
A Near Pocl-Let Ed-ition of WESLEY'S HYMNS, on Fine Paper.
Price Is. or neatly hound in calf lS. 6d. i ſi .
The GARDENER'S POCKEF ]0URNAL; or,DAlLY ASSISTANT:'
in the modern Pt'actlto of Engliſh Gardening. Being a Conciſe
Monthly Dit'play of all the Practieal Works of general Gardening
throughout the Year; forming a complete Practittal Remembrancer
and commodious journalof the proper Seaſons and diﬀerent Me
thods of Sowing, Plilllllilg, &c. from the beginning of january to the
end oſ December. With LlSTS of the Plants, Trees, Shrubs, Flou'ers, '
and Fruits of-each Garden, Diſirict; and of Green Houſe and Hot
Houſe Plants. By ſolin AbercrombieLAuthor of Every Man his own
Gatdrner, &e. Third Edirion, corrected and greatly improyed, con-'
taining upwards of zzo pages. Price only is. ſewed, or is. 6d. bound,
POOLERs FAMlLY BREWER, or the Whole Art of Brewing made
eaſy. Price 25. _
BUNYAN's HOLY WAR. Price 15- bound in canvas, or is. 6d. in
ſheep, letterr-d. ,
A TREATKSE on HERB TOBACCO, pointing 'out the pernicious
Walities, and its 'fatal Eﬀedts. By a Gentleman of the Univerſity o'f
Cambridge. Price is. 6d. 7 + *
CHARACTER of Dr: PRlESTLEY, conſidered as a Philoſopher,
Politician, and Divine; with a ſhort account of the Riſe, Progrcſs,
and Eftabliihment of the Arian and Socinian Doctrines. Price ts.
t VVONDERFUL PROPHECIES!
'A DlSFERTATlON on the Exiſtence, Nature, and Extent of the
PROPHETlC POWERS in the Human Mind. With unqueﬅionable
' ſi_ Examples of ſeveral eminent PROPHEClES of what is now' acting,
and ſoon to be fulﬁlled, upon the great Theatre of Europe ; particu
larly thoſe of Prieﬅley, Goldfmith, Smellet, Dr. john Harvey, Mi
' ehael Noﬂrodamus, William Lilly, Anna Ti'apnel, Mr. Love, ohn
Tillinghaﬁ, Peter jurieu, Scth Darwin,'Robert Nixon,' Robert Fiem.
ing, John Lacy,*John Maximilian Daut, Rev. Mr. jolin Wilſnn, Biſhop '
Newton, Baron Swedenbourg, Daniel Defoe, James Lambert, Marth ſi
by, Hannah Grecn, St. Thomas a Beckct, and Dr. Siblcy. Price is. '
publzſhea', by B. Crzſhy, No. 4, Stationers Court, Ludgaic Street. ,
HE LAVV OF TREASON, being a co'mprehenſive View of
' the Power anantv of Grand Juries in Criminal Caſes. To
which is added, Lord Coke's Commentary on the Law of Treaſon.
.Price lS.
A complete Political Hiſtory and Character oſ ROBESPlERRE,
embelliſhed with a Copper-plate, engraved iſſrom an-original Drawing.
This Publication contains every important Particular relative to his
Principles and Actions, from his becoming a Member ofthe Conﬅituent,
until his Execution by the Guillotine. The Whole is interſperſed
with original Anecdotes and Sketches of the moﬅ remarkable Cha.
rſiacters that have been concerned in the French Revolution. ſiPrice
33.
A conciſe Treatiſe on the Art of Angling, conﬁrmed by aaual Ex
perience, and minute Obſervations; with the proper Methods ſor
breeding and feeding Fiſh, and of making Fiſh Ponds, Stews, &c. with
ſeveral Arcana, never before made Public. To which is added, the
Complete Fly-Fiſher; the Came-Laws, relative to Angling;and*
Prognbilics oſ the Weather, independent of the Barometer._ By
Thomas Bell. The Third Edition,'corre&ed and improved. Price 23.
, W'lzcrc may [Je had aﬃrm remaining Copz'cs of
The Art of Happmeſs'; or an Attempt to prove, that a great De
ree of it is not diﬃcult to attain. By Hannah Moore. Price is.
The Arabian Night Entertainments, 4 vols. printed on ﬁne paper,
ſewed in marble covers, 85. ' v .
Blair's Grave, and Grey's Elegy, a new edition, corrected, with a
frontiſpiece, 6d. ,
The Young Moraliﬅ,conſiliing oſ Eſſays, in Proſe and Verſe, with a
' great number oſ cuts. By George Wright, Eſq. bound in red,rs. 6d.
Portlock and Dixon's Voyage round the World, in one vol. 8vo.
Price in boards. 45.
Oldham's Works, in Proſe and Verſe, with notes, by E. Thompſon, _
3 vols. ſmall 8v0. in boards, 65.
Radcliﬀ's Journey through Sweden,Denmarl<, &c. 8vo. in boards,4s.
Umfreville's preſent State of Hudſon's Bay, containing a full De
ſcription oi that Settlement, likewiſe the Fur Trade, with many Remarks
' and Ohſervations, 8\'o.ſſin boards, 45.
Letters between the Hon. Andrew Erſkine and James Boſwell,
Eſq. on the GOVernment of Corſica, ſmall 8vo. ſewed, 2s. \
. EtſaVs on various Subjects, by T. Monro, Magdalen College, Ox
forcl. 8v0. in boards, 35. ' ,
YOtmg's Eaſicrn Tour, in' 4 large vols. 8vo. in boards, tl.
N. B. As there is but a few Copies oſſome of the above-men- \
tioned Boolts, thoſe who wiſh to purchaſe any oſ them, are
deſired to apply ſoon, they being ſcarce, and oﬀered mUCh
lower than the original Price.
Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progreſs, a good edition, on fine paper, bound.
25. 6d. * '
Latly Huſſingdon's Hyrrctms, a 'good edition, in ſheep, 25.; calf,
25. bd.; and in black call, with gilt edges, 39. - ' -
Shruhſol-'s Chritlian Memoirs, large 8vo. in boards, 55.' '
nglley's, Life of Chriﬅ, tolio, lecond band, a very neat COPY
los. . . -
._-_._--,-,'*
THE HON. THſſoivrAs ERSKINE, * N
On Mndqz, _7dn. 12, 1795, 'war publiſhed, Price One Shiiling,
(Embclliſhcd with an elegant and moﬅ correct Likeneſs, drawn from Life, of
* the Honourable THoMAs ERSKINE) \- >
'NUMBER XXIII'.
REGISTER (BFETHE TIMESQ
CONTAINlNG,
Biography oſ the Hon. Thomas Erſkine, keniarkable Events of 1794, Liﬅs of
Þa'inonttcs, Criticiſms upon the Arts and t'he Dtpma, Dr.-bates in the German
Diet on Peace _or War, Foreign and Domeſiic Eveuts, with a correct Liﬅ of New
Publicattons ; Births, Marriagcs, Dcaths, Bankrupts, Dividends, Prices of Stocks,
with a Varicty of Other important Articlcs. *
To which is preﬁxed, a beautiful ViGNETTE TITLE PAGE, emblema
tical of the important Deſign of the Work. , '
To which are added, The'DEBATES OF PARLIAMENT, reported with
accuracy and impartiality, ſo as to preſent the Public with every important Speech
of the moſt popular Senators, on whatever is intereﬅing to the Country.
PRINTED FOR B. CROSBY, No. 4,$TAT10NERS COURT, FUDGATF. STRIIT;
,,"'-'*' The ﬁrﬅ Twenty-two Numbersoſ the above YVork, cmbelliſhCd with elegant:
Likeneſſes of the moﬅ popular Characters,'and other Plates, containing the moﬅ'
remarkable Political and Domeﬅic Occurrences, from the toth oſjune to the pre
ſent Time, may be! had as above. ' . '
*, * TO 'ranter/am;
HIS Work 'having received the moſt ﬂatteringcncouragerſſnent of all parties,
from its being the impartial record of every inte eﬁing ſoreign and domeﬅic
occurrence, ﬂimulates our eﬀ its to re-nder our labouijs- ﬂill' more deſcrving public
attention. ' '-> * >
The limits of the original plan bcin too conﬁned to admit of the variety of
eſſential intelligence, which the aﬀairs 0 nations are now ſo abundantly aﬀording,*
* induce us to enlarge the qu'antityof letter preſs. By this, wehope, thework will
be ſound the moﬅ valuable depd't of ublicevents. 1 '
Viewing the new ſyﬅems whic political-viciﬁitude has cauſed in States and
Kingdoms, the vneciaſiity'of extending our plan, more immediate-fy impreſſes our
minds, and im els our eneriions. - ſſ -
The triumph of humanity over the late ſyﬅem of terror in France, will now
tender their concerns intereﬅing to all who are anxious to ſee the progreſs of
human nature in its eſtabliſhment 'of freedom, proſperity, and tranquillity.
Gnnar BRiTAiN and-AMERXCA having concluded atreaty of Amity Com
merce, andſiNavigation, is art-event which ſo deeply concerns the Welfare of our
manuſacturers, tradeſmen, and merchants, as wrllclaim every information that can- ſi
be oﬃbly given relative to the aﬀairs of both nations. ' ' , '* '
BOLAND having bee'n unſorrunatcly ſubjected to the ra'pacious ambition of
Ruﬃa and Pruﬁia, renders their occurrenccs dcſerving the greateﬅ attention ; and
cauſes ſuch a change in what relates to the courts of Peteriburgh and Berlin, as
to require our particular obſervance. -. '
Hon.;th entering inttia negotiation for a ſeparate peace, aﬀords ſuch a
proſpect oſ extraordinary events, With regard to themſelves, and their relative con- r
ecrns with other nations, as will demand all the notice Wt: can poﬃbly give to
their p litics. ' . _' - , . .
TURKEY having 'ſent her Ambaﬀador to this Court, indicates a ſyﬅem of
mutual intercourſe between Athevtwo countries, that naturally attracts all political .
Obſen'ers, and therefore, claims ottr immediate attention. , , _ ,
AUSTRLA being determined to proſecute the war againﬅ France, renders he;
politics and military operations moﬅ eſſential to be known by us, as Apeople who _
muli ſhare in her ſucceſſes or diſaſiers. ' -
[ 2 ] o ' , a
Swrnmſie, DENMARK, and the PETTY STATES of ITALY, will oeeaſionally
aﬀord matter of ſuch importance, as to require inſertion in 'ſ/'e Regiﬅer aſ the
Timrx. . But as their concerns are nor on the ſore-ground of the political tablature
of Europe, it will not be neceſſary to direct our attehtion, unremittingly, to their
occurrenccs- We ſhall, however, careſull avoid omitting whate-Ver may happen
in the above kingdoms and ſtates, that is 'eſſential information. '
i GREAT BR lTAlN being determined to continue a w'ar, in which the intereſts
- oſ all are involvcd, and 'on which opinions oſ all parties are agitating, neVer was
a moment teeming with events ſo important to the public as the preſent period.
Another ſubject of deep concern to the nation, is, the aport-henſions that are avow.
edly entertained by thoſe iat power, of a conſpiracy ſtilſ exiﬂing to overturn the
Government, and eﬅabliſh the ſanguinary ſyﬅcmmſ France, o'n the ruins of our
peace, property, and proſperity. Although the late mals have convinced us there
exiﬅs no cauſe for ſuch diſmaying alarms, yet, a' ſaithjul friends to the Conili
tutinn, and to the hap ineſs of the people, we pledge ourſelves to puniſh,
whatever may happen, tiat can tend to u arn our fellow citizens in time, to artrt
impending dangers ; and, as we conſider that unfouuded alarms, deſtroy the muruzl
conﬁdence of ſociety, unnerve induſtry, depreſs emulatitn, and alienate all aﬀec
tionate tics between the ſubject and his native country, equal carevwill be tal-ten t'
inſert every evidence that may c'vince the ſafety of the State and the people.
'With regard to the enlargement of our plan, for the purpoſe oſ attending"
the above important objects, the following is a brieſ Proſpectus oſ our deſign.
THE DRAMA. _
This being-a ſubject in which the taſte, gcnlus, improvement, and elegant-'es
of a nation, pretending to the elevation of reﬁncment, are materially concerned,
it is our intention to devote a part oſ T/'c Regiﬅer aſ t/u Time: to original and li
btral criticiſms on new pieces and perſon-ner:
i ' THE ARTS. *
.As theſe are eultivating with a rapid progreſs towards excellence and extenſive' _
imptrtance, we mean to review, impartially, exhibitions of paintings, and diſhm
guiſhed engravings. _ In this department of the Regiﬅer, occaſionally Will be'
given portraits and characters oſ artiﬅs the moﬅ deſerving public attentiod.
. THE PARLI-AMENT.
The aﬀairs of foreign nations relating ſo immediately to this country; ſhe
anxinup deſire which pervadcs the minds oſ the moſt elevated charactdrs, as well
as the great maſs of thc people, for a parliamentary reſorm; and the oppoſil_l<>ſl
that is expected to the continuance of a war, however expedient at ﬁrﬅ, being
now, from the deſection of our allies, replete with diſaſtcr, will render the de:
batcs of the preſent ſelſion the moﬅ intereﬅing, perhaps, that ever agitated!
ſcnate. Conicious oſ their importance to the public, we intend that T/ie Rtglſfﬂ'
(lift/If Time; ſhall contain a faithful (tate-ment of the Debatts in both Houles of
arliamcnt. As out' limits will not permit us to detail the minutiaa of triﬂing oc
currences, we ſhall neceſſarily direct our eﬂorts to ſuch ſubjects and ſpeeches a'
arc of the greateﬅ moment to the country. And when thcyare of ſo conſiderable
a conſequence to public information, as to render their inſertion indiſpcnſible, out'
readers will be accommodatcd with eight, twelve, or ſixteen pages of extra letter.
preſs, in the ſame manner as wc have occaſionally given ,in.our two ﬁrﬅ volumcs
n addition \to liﬅs of hirths, deaths, marriagcs, &e. we ſhall alſo inſert regular ac
counts oſ divide-tula, new publicatious, &c.&c. ſſ - l
I
The independent principle of T/ae Regiſſtr of the' Times will be ſiillprcſerved
Unſcttc-ted by party, unbiaſſed by connexion, and uninﬂucnced by any intereſt but.
that oſ phblie ſavour, worth will ever receive our praiſe, errors our correction,'and
vice our re reach, without the leaﬅ reſpect to the 'conſequence of the character
whoſe public actions arc juﬅly the ſubjectof general ſcrutiny. \-thn we are,
therefore, induced to applaud any perſon or party, let us not be accuſed-oſ havmg
ſacriﬁced our ſrecdom of ſentiment, by enliﬅing under their bannersſict YVhile we
approve or vindicatc any of their actions we mean not. to pledge ourſelves as the
advocate of their errors or their criminality. That conduct which tends to ſocial
welFare ſhall ever he the pleaſurable ſubject oi our approbation, and-whatever
militates againﬅ the ſafety or property of our fellow citizens will ever bc'
condemned. ' ' .' 'A
_ _Jn a word, the deſign oſ this Work is to aﬀord the public a re oſttory of' all.
'hat is important: to their intereﬅs, gratifying to their curioſity, or eſſential to their
zmprovemeut. v - . -
t
- E 3 ] -- .
To LPUBLISHERS OF LITERATURE. '
HAVING determined m give in THE REGISTER OF THE TIMES, aſ,
Liſi ofallNEW PUBLICATlONS, and new Ediiions, it 13 re ueſiod
that, when vou have any ſuch WVOtkS, you will pleaſe to inform'the Publichier of
their General Titles, Sizes, and Prices, that you may have the Beneﬁt of their
heiuginſertcd as ſoon as p'oﬃble. , = '
Our Intention of giving this Liﬂ is, that it may ſerve as the moﬅ early 'and
ready means of reference to every Parſon who is anxiOUs to know the Books and
Pamphlcts that are in preſcnr Circulation. v X
P. S. As the Davs of publiſhing '7/15 Regiﬅer (if tlie Times are the Eleventh,_
Twenty-ſith, and Laﬅ. Day of every Month', it is hoped you Will not neglect
ſending timely_N0tice tiſ-your New _Publications, "which, hy ſo, ready an Inſertion,
muſt eſſentially tend>to promote your lntcrcﬂ ; and being thc'Puhlilher's In-l
tention to inſert all Publications, bearing the Dare oſ 1795, "he, therefore, re-,
gueﬅs they- may be ſent before the grh, i-9th, and zSth of everYMon'th. '
, _ , ..
NEW BOOKS i-wv-,
Juﬅ/rubliſhed &_y B. COSB Y, No. '21.2 *Statianea'r':Cuurt, Lydgate. Street; and
ſblu' by Let, Mte-ſz'r*eet, Coventgſi-arden, and all other Book/&lient.
HE NECESSlTY OF CONTINUING YVAR, AND' DAN
I GERS OF AN IMLMEDJ ATE PEACE; Tranſlated from theDIiginaP
the Count of Montgaillard. Price zs; . .\ ' ſi - -
The Trial ofTHO! HARDY, for HIGH 'TRE_A<0N, crmple'e. Containing
every particular relative to the Proceedin 's at,Clerk_e_nwcll, and before the Triaiz
for High Treaſon commenced£with a ﬅrilting Likeneſs, Price 45. 8v0. ſewed.
The Trial of' HORNE TOOKE; Eſq. complete, With an elegant Por
trait. es. 6d. ſewud. ' - . ' ſi
And the Trial of JOHN THELXVALL, withh beautiſul Portraitſi _'ſſen- A
grzved by Ridley. Price zs. Reported by a Studcnt of the Temple. '
N. B. The three Trials together, make one large Volume in Octavo; Price in.
-Boards, 85. l , ' 'ſ - _
A THE LA_\V OF TREASON, being a comprehcnſive View of the Power and
Duty of Grand Juries in Criminal Caſes. To Which is added, an Abrid-gcment
of Lord Colce's Commentary on the Law of Treaſon. 'Price lS. '
A complete Political Hiﬅory and Charact'e'r (iſ ROBESPIERRE, embelliſhcdſi
with a Copper-plate, engraved from an original Drawing. This Publication con
tains every important Particular rclatch to his Principles-and Actixzns, with ori_
ginal Anccdotcs and Skctchcs ſſof the moﬅ remarkable' Characters that have been
concerned in the French Rcvoluiion. Price 35. . , ' _'
An entire and complete HISTORY, Political, and Pcrſhnal,. of ' the' BO-,
ROUGHS of GREAT BRlTAlN; t'ogether'with the CINWJE PORTS;
Containing! the Time of each Borough þeing ﬁrﬅ ſummoned to ſend Bicmbers to
Parliament; origin and extent of Charter ; contradictory and 'diſpiitengights of
Elcction 5 Nature oſ Burgage-tenure, Corporations and other excluſivc Privileges ;*
Convictions of Brihery, Corruption, &c.; Number of Voters in each Borough;
Names of Patrons and Proprietors who inﬂuence Elections, &c. Second Edition;
corrected and greatly improved. .TWO Volume: large Svo. Price 145. in boards;
A CORRECT TAHLE of the preſent PARL'IAMEN-TARY REPRFP
SENTATION oquREAT BRITAIN: containing, at oneYit-w, a ,Liﬅ of
the Members, 'Number of Voters, and the Riglit_of Election in each City and
Borough; Returning Oﬃccrs; when ﬁrſt impnvileged'to ſend to Parliament;
with the Names of the Pa'trons or Proprietors who inﬂuence the Return of the.
Members. Price ts. ' ' ' >
A LOOKlNG-GLASS for a Right Honourable Mundicant;" or, the real
Character of a certain great,0rator-, with important Political Obſervations: in
particular thc Marrow ot the Slave Q_u_cﬂion : and of that reſpecting the Laws of
chtor and Crcditor. &e. &c. By an Old Member of Parliament. _ Price '35. v
WONDERFUL PROPHECIES. Containing a Diſſertation on the Exiﬅencc,
Nature, and 'Eittent of the Prophctic Powcrs in the Human Mind, with unqueſ
tionable Exampleaof many eminent Prthe-cies of what is now acting and ſoon to *
b_e fulﬁlled upon the great Thcatre- of uropc ; amongſt many others are thoſe of
(mldſmith Smpllctt, Prieſlley, Newton, Daniel Defoe, Lamhert, Sibly, and all.
thoic worthy of Notice, by BROTHERSil ſ Ptice is. or on ﬁne Paper, is. 6d
an hooxs, sotn'vz a. 'endsin STATlONZRS' COURT.
CROSBY': LADIES NE\V 'ROYAL POCKET COMPANION
bellifhed with a beautiful Engraving of Treachery defeated, and the Trait
come the Victim; from Hutton's Amantus and Elmira, &e. Price 'S- bound i
Sheep, with Pockets; or neatly extra bound with Claſp orTuck, '3. 6d.
taining, Treachery defeated, and the Tiaitor become the Victim of his own
chinations-Eelipſes) in 1795 Table of the Moon-Holidays kept at the I
Oﬃccs-Buying and ſellingPtock-Royal Family of Great Britain-Ta
Fiſh, Fleſh, and Fowl, in Scnſon-Prec'edency among Ladies-_A Memora:
and Calh Book, ruled for ever Da _in the Year-Advice to the Ladies on
Friendſhi s with Men,and on t e C oice of a Huſband-Edwin and* Amelia
the Sedu ioh of Female InnocenCe-'Mary (Lukeen of Scuts, a Monody
Power ofTime-Thc Roſe-On' the Partiality o Men-Human Inconſiﬅenc
the Univerſal PnrtraiÞ-The Robin Read Breaﬅ-u-The Female Prartler-T
Songs ſung at Vauxhall during the laſi_Seaſ0n-Ratcs oF Haekncy Cnachmt
Rates of U'atcrmen-Kings and Blecns of England-Penee and ShillingT
and Cloth Meaſure-'_Marketing Tab es-ſſ-A Table to calf up Expence's or iV,
*-New Country Danccs. " _ * _
CROSBY's FORTUNE-TELLI'NG ALMANACK;or, Ladies Unive
Pocket Book , for 1795. Containing the Hiſlory of the Origin, Diſperſionﬁ;
Mami'ers 'of the Gipſies-Holidays and Remarkable Days-Viſible Eclipſe:
' Tableloſ the Moon-The Royal Family of Great Britain-Holidayskept at'
Publie Oﬃees-Marketing TableSF-New Country Dances-The Inﬂuence
the Planets and Celeﬅial Spheres, prored from their apparent eﬀects
natural productions-Pa]miﬅry-Dreams-MolB-Phyſio nomy-Aﬅrologyx
Signs of Diſcaſcs-Predictions for Births on any day of the' week-Diſaﬅro
Days in every month in the ear-Princcſs oſ Brunſwick-How to judge
the 'Weathen Embelliſhcd wth a Portrait of the Princeſs of Brunſwick; and
Yiew of the Gipſcy Houſe at Norwood. Price xs. bound in Red Sheep wit
Packets; or extra, is. 6d. ' > '
, _ _ THE EXPEDITlOUS INSTRUCTOR ; or, Reading, Writing, and Arirlz
'metic made Plain and Eaſy : Containing, amongﬅ other uſeful Things, ill, A colt
Life) Engliſh Gramman-zd, On Practical Elocution, or the belt Method Ol
Learning to read with Correctncſs, Grace, and Ener Yzl_3d, lnſh'uctions ſo'
the Attainment of a Maﬅerly Boldneſs, Command, and 'lcgziuee in W'riting, re
duced to ſuch ſimple Rules, and ſo eaſy a Courſe of Exercii'e, that a Perſon may
i 'learn to write a good Hand in TWenty-ſour Hours.--4th, Short, clear, and ra
tional Introduction to Aritſi'netic, &e. &e. with a great Variety of Copics in diſ
. ferent Hands, on new Copper Plates, engraved from the Writings of the moﬅ
eminent School-maſters. rice only 'S- 6d. in Nlarble Paper. -
CROSBY'S MODERN SONGSTER, being a Selection of the moﬅ approved
Songs from the late Opctas; with many Favouritc Songs ſung at the diﬀerent
Places of Public Entertainment ; and a Frontiſ iece of Mrs. Mountain and Milk
Hopkins, in thlcy Abbey; alſo a Vignette &itle Page, of MrsLMartyr, in
_Containing upwards of 500 Songs; particularly
the Travellers in Switzerlan.
onal, &a. &a. Price zs. 6d. ſewed, or neatly
sporting, Patriotic, and Co
bound in red 3s. '
The UNFORTUNAT
added the Lady's Counſellor,
By the Author of Retired Ple. . _
AMANTUS and ELMIR _
" Charaﬁter oſ Ingratus. B 'i .
_ The CHILDREN of XPOL -
'made 'Works of odr modern Aii
'Holo'zroſn Cobb, Cumberland, An'
Coctwley, Dudley, Dibdcn, Tnpham',
ERS, a Story ſounded on Facts: to which is
ng Low, Cnurtſhip, Marriage, Divorcc, &c
J'ricc is. 6d. ' ' \
\ NGRATITUDE. Excmpliticd in the
j'- Price zs. .
'ingan impartial Reyiew of all the Dra
'nd '-Authoreſſes_: particularly O'Kceﬀe,
Morris, Coleman, Mrs. Inchbald, Mrs
'leſiong Murphy, Hoare, Stewart, Roſc.
Macklin, Jermngham, Lady Walla Sin-&e. To which are added caaſioml
Notes. By ', Eſq. Ag ſſt to the Sunct._ Price is. '*
HEIGHQ FOR A UUSBANDWK Crimedy, by Ft. G.\Valdmn, will! an
elegant Engraving of Mrs. HARLOW'E, in' the Characterof Doroihy, drawn lnd
engraved by Harding. Price is. 6d. ' " _
' THE PRODIGAL, a Pranſatic Pl'ebe, by 'the ſame uthor, aspprformcdiz
\ the HayMnrktt. Price IS. ſ ' 7 ' * ' '
The SPEECH of the Hon. T. ERSKINE,<on Hardy's Tiial ferſ-High
' Trealſion'. Priec Þd. * 3 . * " . ſſ
t'h
