{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__lytton_bulwer___confessions_and_observations_of_water_patient.pdf","mytitle":"Confessions And Observations Of Water Patient","mylang":"de"}
CONFESSIONS
OBSERVATIONS
O
F
A WATER PATIENT:
In a Idler 16 [lie Editors of the New Monthly Magazine.
Bv Siu E. LYTTON BULVYEH, Baht
l i A I.T I MO UB :
GEORGE II. HICKMAN,
N. W . Comer of Ilallimorc und North Streets,
( J A II V I S ’ B U I L D I N G S . )
l'rinicd by James Lucas.
BULWER ON WATER CURE.
The New Monthly Magazine for September opens with “ Con­
fessions nnd Observations of a Watcr-l’alient, in a letter to the
Editors of the New Monthly Magazine j by Sir E. Lytton
Bulwer, Bart.” of course able and interesting. Buhver opens
with an allusion to the fact that he formerly edited the New
Monthly himself, thence passing to remembrances of his suc­
cessors and cotemporaries, Campbell, Hook and Hood, now
tenants of the “ narrow house.” He continues
• * * “ Not alone calling to recollection our departed friends,
|>
ul looking over the vast field of sutlering which those acquainted
with the lives of men who think and labor cannot fail to behold
around them, I confess, though 1 have something of Canning’s dis­
dain of professed philanthropists, and do not love every knife grinder
as much as if he were my brother— I confess, nevertheless, that I am
tilled with an earnest pity; and an anxious desire seizes me to com­
municate to others that simple process of healing and well being
which has passed under my own experience, and to which 1grate­
fully owe days no longer weary of the stm, ami nights which no
longer yearn for and yet dread the morrow.
“ Ami now,Jlr. Editor, 1may be pardoned, I trust, if I illustrate by
my own case, the system I commend to others.
“ I have been a workman in my day. I began to write and to toil,
ami to win sonic kind of a name, which 1 hail the ambition to im­
prove, while yet little more than a boy. With strong love for study
in books—withyet greater desire to accomplish myself in the know­
ledge of men, for sixteen years I can conceive no life to have beep
more filled by occupation than mine. Whattime was not given to
the action was given to study; what time not given to study, to ac­
tion—labor in both! To a constitution naturally far from strong, 1
allowed no pause to respite. The wear and tear went on without in­
termission— the whirl of die wheel never ceased. Sometimes, in­
deed, thoroughly overpowered and exhausted, 1 sought for escape.
The physician said ‘Travel,’ and I travelled. ‘Go into the country,’
and I went. But in such attempts at repose all my ailments gath-
I n tl L W X n ON- W A T E R C O R E .
ered ro u n d me— made themselves fur m ore palpable and A ll. I had
no resource but to fly from myself-— to llv in to the o ilie r w o rld oi
book*, o r thought, o r reverie— to liv e in some Mato o f being less
painful than m y own. As lo n g as I "a s always at w o rk it seemed
th a t I had no Icasure to be i l l — Q uiet was m y hell.
“ At length the frame thus long neglected—patched up fora while
by drugs and doctors—put off and trilled with as an intrusive dun—
like a dun who is in his rights—brought in its arrears—crushing and
terribtc, accumulated through long years. Worn out and wasted, the
constitution seemed wholly inadequate to meet the demand- The
exhaustion of toil and study had been completed by great anxiety
and grief. 1 had watched with alternate hope and fear the lingeiing
nnd mournful death-bed of my nearest relation and dearest friend—of
the person around whom was entwined the strongest affection my
life had known—and when all was over, I seemed scarcely to live
myself.
“ At this time, about the January of 1844, I was thoroughly shat­
tered. The least attempt at exercise exhausted tnc. The nerves gave
way at the most ordinary excitement—a chronic irritation of that vast
surface we call the mucous membrane which had defied for years all
medical skill, rendered me continually liable to acute attacks, which
from their repetition and the increased feebleness of my frame might
at nny time be fatal. Though free front any organic disease of the
heart, its action was morbidly restless and painful. My sleep was
without refreshment. At morning I rose more weary than 1 laid
down to rest.
.“ W ithout fatiguing you and your readers further with the longa
r.ohors of tny complaints, I pass on to record my struggle to resist
them. I have always had a great belief in the power of die w il l .
W hat a man determines to do— that in ninety-nine cases out of the
hundred I hold that he succeeds in doing. I determined to have
some insight into n knowledge 1 had never attained since manhood—
tho knowledge of health.
“ I resolutely put away hooks nnd study, sought the airs which the
physicians esteemed the most healthful, and adopted the strict regi­
men on which nil the children of iGsculapius so wisely insist. In
short, 1 maintained the same general habits as to hours, diet, (with
the exception of wine, which in tnodcialc quantities seemed to tnc
indispensable,) and, so far as m y strength would allow, of exercise,
as I found afterwards instituted at hydropathic establishments.. I
dwell on this to forestall in some manner the common remark of per­
sons not well acquainted with the medical agencies of water—that
it is to the regular life which water-patients lead, nnd not to the ele­
m ent itself that they owe their recovery. Nevertheless I found that
these changes, however salutary in theory, produced little if any
practical amelioration in m y health. All invalids know, perhaps,
DULW ER ON W ATER CURE.
how difficult, under ordinary circumstances, is the alteration of habits
from had to good. The early rising, the walk before breakfast, so
delicious in the feelings of freshness and vigor which they bestow
upon the strong, often become punishments to the valetudinarian.
Headache, languor, a sense of weariness over the eyes, a sinking of
the whole system towards noon, which seemed imperiously to
demand the dangerous aid of stimulants, was all that I obtained by
the morning breeze and the languid stroll by the sea-shore. The
suspension from study only ufllictcd with intolerable eunui,and added
to the profound dejection of the spirits. The brain, so long accus­
tomed to morbid activity, was but withdrawn from its usual occupa­
tions to invent horrors and chimeras. Over the pillow, vainly sought
two hours before midnight, hovered no golden sleep. The absence
of excitement, however unhealthy, only aggravated the symptoms of
ill-health.
It was at this time that I met by chance, in the library at St. Leo­
nard’s, with Captain Claridge’s work on the “ Water Cure,” ns prac­
ticed by Pricssnitz at Graefenberg. Making allowance for certain
exaggerations therein, which appeared ovidp.nt to my common cense,
enough still remained not only to captivate the imagination and
flatter the hopes of an invalid, but to appeal with favor to his sober
judgment. Till then, perfectly ignorant of the subject and the sys­
tem,except by some such vague stories and good jests as had reached
my cars in Germany, I resolved at least to read what more could be
said in favor of the a rislo n u d o r , and examine dispassionately into
its merits as a medicament. I was then under the advice of one of
the first physicians of our age. I had consulted half the faculty.
I had every reason to be grateful for the attention, and to be confi­
dent in the skill of those whose prescriptions had, from time to time,
fiattcred my hopes and enriched the chemist. But the with must he
spoken—far from being better, 1 was sinking fast. Little remained
to me to try in the great volume of the herbal. Seek what I would
next, even if a quackery, it certainly might expedite my grave, but
it could scarcely render life—at least the external life—more un­
joyous. Accordingly 1 examined, with such grave thought as a sick
man brings to bear upon his case, all the grounds upon which to
justify to myself an excursion to the snows of Silesia. But I own
that in proportion as I found my faith in the system strengthen, 1
shrunk from the terrors of this long journey to the rugged region
in which the probable lodging would be a laborer’s cottage,* and in
* J.et me not disparage the fountain head of Ihe water-rare, the parent institution
of the great l'ricssnitx 1 believe many of the earlier hardships complained of at
Graefenburg have been removed or amended ; and such ui remain, arc no doubt
well compensated by the vast experience and extraordinary tact of a man who will
rank hereafter among the roost illustrious discoverers stbo have ever benefited Hie
human race.
(i OULW ER OK W A TER CURE.
which the llabel of n liumlred languages, (ao agreeable to the licallh-
fiil delight in novelty—so appalling to the sickly despondency of n
hypochondriac)—would niunnurand growl over a public table spread
with no tempting condiments. Could 1 hope to find healing >'• 'ny
own land, and not too far from my own doctors in case of failure, I
might indeed solicit the watery gods—but the journey! I who
scarcely lived through a day without leech or potion—the long—
gelid journey to Gracfenbcrg—I should be sure to fall ill hy the
wuy—to ho clutched and mismanaged by some German doctor—to
deposit my bones in some dismal church-yard on tho banks of the
Father Ithinc.
“ While thus perplexed, I fell in with one of the pamphlets written
hy Dr. Wilson, of Malvern, and my doubts were solved. Here was
an English doctor, who had himself known more than my own suf­
ferings, who, like myself, had found the pharmacopeia in vain—who
had spent ten months at Gracfenbcrg, and left all his complaints
behind him—who fraught with the experience he had acquired, not
only in his own person, hut from scientific examination of the cases
under his eye, had transported the system to our native shores, and
who piolTcrrd the proverbial salubrity of Malvern air and its holy
springs, to those who, like me, had ranged in vain, from simple to
mineral, and who had become bold hy despair—bold enough to try
if health, like truth, lay at the bottom of a well.
“ I was not then aware that other institutions had been established
in England of more or less fame. 1 saw in Doctor Wilson tho first
transporter—at least us n physician—of tho Silesian system, and did
not pause to look out for other and later pupils of this innovating
German school.
“ I resolved their to betake myself to Malvern.—On my way
through town 1 paused, in the innocence of my heart, to inquire of
some of the faculty if they thought the water cure would suit my
case. With one exception, they were unanimous in the vehemence
of their denunciations. Granting even that in some cases, especially
of rheumatism, hydropathy had produced a cure—to my complaints
it was worse than inapplicable—it was highly dangerous—it would
probably be fatal. I had uot stamina for the treatment—it would fix
chronic ailments into organic disease—surely it would be much better
to try what I had not yet tried. What I had not yet tried 1 A course
of prussic acid! Nothing was better for gastrite irritation, which
was no doubt the main cause of my suffering! If, however, I were
obstinately bent upon so mad an experiment, Doctor Wilson was the
Inst person I should go to. I was not deterred hy all these intimi­
dations, nor seduced by the salubrious allurements of the prussic
acid under its scientific appellation of hydiocamic. A little reflection
taught mo that the meinhcis of a learned profession arc naturally the
'cry persons least disposed to favor innovation upon the practices
RDLWGH ON W A TER CURE. 7
which custom and prescription lmvc rendered sacred ill their eyes.
A lawyer is not llic person to consult upon bold ieform3 in jurispru­
dence. A physician can scarcely be expected to own that a Silesian
peasant will cure with water the diseases which resist an armament
of phials. And with regard to the peculiar objections to Doctor
Wilson, I had read in bis owe pamphlet attacks upon the orthodox
practice sufficient to account for—perhaps to justify—the disposition
to depreciate him in return.
“ Still my friends were anxious and fearful; to please them 1 con­
tinued to inquire, though not of physicians, but of patients. I sought
out some of those who had gono through the process. I sifted some
of the cases of cure cited by Doctor Wilson. I found the account
of the patients so encouraging, the cases quoted so authentic, that I
grew impatient of delay. 1 threw physic to the dogs, and went to
Malvern.
It is not my intention, Mr. Editor, to detail the course I underwent.
The different resources of water as a medicament are to be found in
many works easily to be obtained, and well worth the study. In this
letter I suppose myself to be addressing those as thoroughly ac­
quainted with the system as myself was at the first, and I deal there­
fore only in generals.
“ The first point which impressed and struck me was the extreme
and utter innocence of the Water-Cure in skilful hands—in any
hands indeed not thoroughly new to the system. Certainly when I
went, I believed it to be a kill or cure system. I fancied it must lie
a very violent remedy—that it doubtless might ellecl great and magi­
cal cures—but that if it failed it might lie fatal. Now, I speak not
nlono of my own case, but of llic immense number of cases 1 have
seen—patients of all ages—all species and genera of disease—all
kinds and conditions of constitution, when 1declare, upon my honor,
that I never witnessed one dangerous sympton produced by the
Wnter-Curc, whether at Doctor Wilson’s or the other Hydropathic
Institutions which I afterwards visited. And though unquestionably
fatal consequences might occur from gross mismanagement, and nr.
unquestionably have so occurred nt various establishment;, I am yet
convinced that water in itself is so friendly to the human body, that
it requires a very extraordinary degree of bungling, of ignorance,
and presumption, to produce results really dangerous; that a regular
practitioner docs more frequent mischief from the misapplication of
even tlic'simplest drugs, than a water doctor of very moderate expe­
rience docs,or can do, by the misapplication of his baths and friction.
And here I must observe, that those portions of the treatment which
appear to the uninitiated ns the most perilous, are really the safest,*
and can lie applied with the most impunity to the weakest constitu-
*Such asthe xict sheet j>aikiii£.
s n u I.W E R o n Wa t e r c u k e .
tions; whereas those'which appear, from our greater familiarity
with them, the least startling ami most innocuous,* oro those which
require'the greatest knowledge of general pathology and the indi­
vidual constitution. 1 shall revert to this part of my subject before
I conclude.
“ The next thing that struck me was the extraordinary case with
which, under this system, good habits are acquired and bad habits
relinquished. The difficulty with which, under orthodox medical
treatment, stimulants arc abandoned is here not witnessed. Patients
accustomed for half a century to live hard and high, wine drinkers,
spirit-bibbers’
, whom the regular physician has sought in vain to re­
duce to a daily pint of sherry, here voluntarily resign all strong
potations, after a day or two cease to feel the want of them, and re­
concile themselves to water as if they had drank nothing else all
their lives. Others, who have had recourse for years and years to
medicine—their potion in the morning, their cordial at noon, their
pill before dinner, their narcotic at bed-time, cease to require these'
aids to life, ns if by a charm. Nor this alone. Bleu to whom men­
tal labor has been a necessary—who have existed on die excitement
of the passions and the stir of die intellect—who have felt, these
withdrawn, the prostration of the whole system—the lock to the
wheel of the entire machine—return at once to die careless spirits of
the boy in his first holiday.
“ Here lies a great secret; water thus skilfully administered is in
itself a wonderful excitement; it supplies the place of all others—it
operates powerfully and rapidly upon die nerves, sometimes to calm
them, sometimes to irritate, but always to occupy, lienee follows a-
consequence which all patients have remarked—the complete repose
of the passions during, the curly stages of the euro; they seem laid
asleep as if by enchantment. The intellect shares the sumo rest;
after a short time, mental exertion becomes impossible; even the
memory grows far less tenacious of its painful impressions, cares
and griefs arc forgotten; the sense of the present absorbs the past
and future; there is a certain freshness and youth which pervade the
spirits, and live upon the enjoyment of the actual hour. Thus
the great agents of our mortal wear and tear—the passions and the
mind—calmed into strange rest—nature seems to leave the body to
its instinctive tendency, which is always towards recovery. All that
interests and amuses is of a healthful character; exercise, instead of
being an unwilling drudgery, becomes the inevitable impulse of the
frame braced ami invigorated by the element. A series of reactions
is always going on—the willing exercise produces refreshing rest,
and refreshing rest willing exercise. The extraordinary effect which
water, taken early in the morning, produces on the appetite is well
• The plunge-bath—llic Douche.
J1UI.WEH ON W ATER CURE. 9
known amongst those who have tried it, even before the Water-
Cure was thought of; an appetite it should be the care of the skilful
doctor to cheek into moderate gratification ; the powers of nutrition
become singularly strengthened, the blood grows rich and pure—the
constitution is not only amended—it undergoes a change.*
The safety of the system then, struck me first;—its power of re­
placing by healthful stimulants the morbid ones it withdrew, whether
physical or moral, surprised me next,—that which thirdly impressed
me was no less contrary to all my pre-conccived notions. 1 had
fancied that whether good or bad, the system must be one of great
hardship, extremely repugnant and disagreeable. I wondered at
myself to find how soon it became so associated with pleasurable
and grateful feelings as to dwell upon the mind amongst the happiest
passages of existence. For my own part, despite all my ailments,
or whatever may have been my cares, 1 have ever found exquisite
pleasure in that sense of being which is ns it were the conscience,
the mirror, of the soul. 1 hare known hours of as much and ns
vivid happiness as perhaps can fall to the lot of man; but amongst
all my most brilliant recollections 1 can recall no periods of enjoy­
ment at once more hillarious and serene than the hours spent on the
lonely hills of Malvern—none in which nature was so thoroughly
possessed and appreciated. The rise from a sleep sound as child­
hood’s—the impatient rush into theopen air, while the sun was fresh,
and the birds first sang—the sense of an unwonted strength in every
limb and nerve, which made so light of the steep ascent to the holy
spring—the delicious sparkle of that morning draught—the green
terrace on the brow of the mountain, with the rich landscape wide
and far below—the breeze that once would have been so keen and
biting, now but exhilarating the blood, and lifting the spirits into
religious jo y ; and this keen sentiment of present pleasure rounded
by a hope sanctioned by all I felt in myself, and nearly all that 1
witnessed in others—that diat very present was but the step—the
threshold—into an unknown and delightful region of health and
vigor;—a disease and a care dropping from the frame and the heart
at every stride.
“ But here I must pause to own that if on the one hand the danger
and discomforts of the cure are greatly exaggerated—(exaggerated is
loo weak a word)—so on the other hand, as far as my own expe­
rience, which is perhaps not inconsiderable, extends, the enthusiastic
advocates of the system have greatly misrepresented the duration of
the curative process. I have read and heard of chronic diseases of
long standing cured permanently in a very few weeks. I candidly
• Doctor Wilson observed to moonce, very truly 1think, that many regular phy-
slcians arc beginning to own tlie effect of water aa * stimulant, who yet do not
perceive its far more complicated and beneficial effort! as ail alterative-
10 n u i.v l-r.n o s w a t e r c u r e .
confess that I have seen none such. | ]lavCi j, j„ ,ruC) witnessed
many chronic diseases perfectly cured—diseases which had been
pronounced incurable by tho first physicians, hut the cure has been
long and fluctuating. Persons so afiiicteil who try this system must
arm themselves with patience. The first effects of the system are
indeed usually bracing and inspire such feelings of general well-being,
that some think they have only to return home, and carry out the
cure partially to recover. A great mistake—the alterative effects
begin long after the bracing—a disturbance in the constitution takes
place, prolonged more or less, and not till that ceases docs the cure
really begin. Not that the peculiar “ ctisis” sought for so vehe­
mently by the German water-doctors, and as usually under their hands
manifested by boils and eruptions, is at all a necessary part of tho
cure—it is, indeed, as far as 1 have seen, a rare occurrence—hut a
critical action, not single, not confined to one period, or one series
of phenomena, is at work, often uudetcctcd by the patient himself,
during a considerable (and that the latter) portion of the cure in
most patients where the malady has been grave, and where the re­
covery becomes permanent. During this time the patient should be
under the eye of his water-doctor.
“ To conclude my own case: I staid some nine or ten weeks at
Malvern, and business, from which I could not cscafie, obliging me
then to be in the neighborhood of town, I continued the system seven
weeks longer under Dr. Weiss, at Petersham; during this latter
period the agreeable phenomena which had characterized the former,
the cheerfulness, the bicn a is e , the consciousness of returning health
vanished; mid wore succeeded by great irritation of tho nerves, ex­
treme fretfulncss, and the usual characteristics of tho constitutional
disturbance to which I have referred. I had e v e r y reason, however,
to be satisfied with the care and skill of Dr. Weiss, who fully
deserves the reputation he has acquired, and the attachment enter­
tained for him by his patients; nor did my judgment ever despond
or doubt of the ultimate benefits of the process. I emerged at last
from these operations in no very portly condition. I was blanched
and emaciated—washed out like a thrifty housewife's gown—but
neither the bleaching nor the loss of weight had in the least impaired
my strength ; on the contrary, all the muscles had grown as hard as
iron, aud 1 was become capable of great exercise without fatigue;
my euro was not ofiectod, lint I was compelled to go into Germany.
On my return homewards I was seized with a severe cold which
rapidly passed into high fever. Fortunately I was within reach of
Dr. Schmidt's magnificent hydropathic establishment at Bopparl:
thither I caused myself to be conveyed; and now I had occasion to
experience the wonderful effect of the Water-Cure in acute cases;
slow in chronic disease, its beneficial operation in acute is imme­
diate. In twenty-four hours all fever had subsided, and on the third
UUI.WF.R ON W ATKII CURB. I I
day I resumed ray journey, relieved from every symptom that had
before prognosticated a tedious and perhaps alarming illness.
“ And now came gradually, yet perceptibly, the good effects of
the system I had undergone; flesh and weight returned; the sense
of health became conscious and steady; I had every reason to bless
the hour when I first sought the springs of Malvern. And here, I
must observe, that it often happens that the patient makes but slight
apparent improvement, when under the cure, compared with that
which occurs subsequently. A water-doctor of repute at Brussels,
indeed, said frankly to a grumbling patient, “ I do not expect you to
be well while here—it is only on leaving uie that you will know if
I have cured you.”
“ It is as the frame recovers from the agitation it undergoes, that
it gathers round it power utterly unknown to it before—as the plant
watered by the rains of one season, betrays in the next the effect of
the grateful dews.
“ 1 had always suffered so severely in winter, that the severity of
our last one gave me apprehensions, and I resolved to seek shelter
from my fears at my beloved Malvern. 1 here passed the most in­
clement period of the winter, not only perfectly free from the colds,
rheums, and catarrhs, which had hitherto visited me with the snows,
but in the enjoyment of excellent health; and 1 am persuaded
that for those who arc delicate, and who suffer much during the
winter, there is no place where the cold is so little felt as at a Water-
Cure establishment. 1 am persuaded also, and in this 1 am borne
out by the experience of most water-doctors, that the cure is most
rapid und effectual during the erdd season—from autumn through the
winter. 1 am thoroughly convinced that consumption in its earlier
stages can he more easily cured, and the predisposition more perma­
nently eradicated by a winter spent at Malvern, under the care of
Doctor Wilson, than by the timorous flight to Pisa or Madcria. It
is by hardening ra.hcr than defending the tissues that we best secure
them from disease.
“ And now, to sum up, and to dismiss my egotistical revelations,
I desire in no way to over-color my own case; I do not say that
when I first went to the Water-Cure 1was effected with any disease
immediately menacing to life—I sayonly that I was in that prolonged
mid chronic stale of ill health, which made life, at the best, extremely
precarious—1 do not say that I had any malady which the faculty
could pronounce incurable—I say only that the most eminent men
of the faculty had failed to cure me. I do not even now affect to
boast of a perfect and complete deliverance from all my ailments—
I cannot declare that a constitution naturally delicate has been ren­
dered Herculean, or that the wear and tear of a whole manhood
have been thoroughly repaired. What might have been the ease had
I not taken the cure at intervals, had 1 remained at it steadily for
B01.W ER OS W ATER CURE.
12
six or eight months without interruption, 1 cannot do more than
conjecture, but so strong is my belief that the result would have
been completely successful, that 1 promise myself, whenever 1 can
spare the leisure, a long renewal of the system. These admissions
made, what have I gained meanwhile :o justify my eulogies and my
gratitude?—an immense accumulation of the c a p ita l o f h ealth.
Formerly it was my favorite and querulous question to those who
saw much of me, ‘did you ever know mo twelve hours without pain
or illness!’—Now, instead of these being my constant companions,
they ate but my occasional visitors. I compare my old state and
my present to the poverty of a man who has a shilling in his pocket,
and whose poverty is therefore a struggle for life, with the occasional
distresses of a man of £5,000 a yea-, who sees but an appendage
endangered or a luxury abridged. Ah the good that I have gained,
is wholly uidike what I have ever derived either from medicine or
the German mineral baths: in the first place, it docs not relieve
a single malady alone, it pervades the whole frame; in the second
place, far from subsiding, it seems to increase by time, so that I
may reasonably hope that the latter part of my life, instead of being
more infirm than the former, will become—so far as freedom from
suffering, and the calm enjoyment of external life are concerned—my
real, my younger, youth. And it is this profound conviction which
has induced me to volunteer these details, in the hope (1 trust a pure
and kindly one) to iitduce those who, more or less, have suffered
as I have done, to fly to the same rich and bountiful resources. We
ransack the ends of the earth for drugs and minerals—we extract our
potions from the deadliest poisons—but around us and about us,
Nature, the great mother, profl'ers the Ilygeian fount, unsealed and
accessible to all. Wherever the stream glides pure, whorover the
spring sparkles fresh, there, for the vast proportion of the maladies
which Art produces, Nature yields the benignant healing.
It remains for me to say, merely as an observer, and solely with
such authority as an observer, altogether disinterested, but without
the least pretence to professional science, may fairly claim, what
class of diseases I have seen least and most tractable to the opera­
tions of the Water-Cure, nnd how fa- enthusiasts appear to me to
have over estimated, how far sceptics have under valued the ef­
fects of water as a medicament. There arc those (most of the wa­
ter doctors especially) who contend that all medicine by drugs is
unnecessary—that water internally nnd outwardly applied, suflices
in skilful management for all complaints—that the time will come
when the drug doctor will cease to receive a fee, when the apo­
thecary will close his shop, and the Water-Cure be adopted in every
hospital and by every family. Dreams and absurdities ! Even grant­
ing that the Water-Cure were capable of all the wonders ascribed
to it, its process is so slow in most chronic eases—it requires such
complete abstraction from care and business—it takes the active man
DULW ER OS W ATER CU RE. 13
so thoroughly out of his course of life, that a vast proportion of those
engaged in wordly pursuits cannot hope to find the requisite leisure.
There are also a large number of complaints (perhaps the majority)
which yield so easily to a sparing use of drugs under a moderately
competent practitioner, that the convenient plan of sending to the
next chemist for your pill or potion can never be superceded, nor is
it perhaps desirable that it should be.—Moreover, as far ns I have
seen, there arc complaints curable by medicine which the Water-
Cure utterly fails to reach.
“ The disorders wherein hydropathy appears to me to ho least
effectual are, first, neuralgic pains, especially the monster pain of the
Tic Dolorcux. Not one instance of a cute in the latter by hydro­
pathy has come under my own observation, and 1 have only heard of
one authentic ease of recovery from it by that process. Secondly,
paralysis of a grave character in persons of an advanced age. Thirdly,
in tubercular consumption. As may be expected, in this stage of
that melancholy disease, the Water Cure utterly fails to restore, but
1 have known it even here prolong life, beyond all reasonable calcu­
lation, and astonishingly relieve the more oppressive symptoms. In
all eases where the nervous exhaustion is great, and of long stand­
ing, and is accompanied with obstinate hypochondria, hydropathy, if
successful at all, is very slow in its benefits, and the patience of the
sufferer is too often worn out before the favorable turn takes place.
1 have also noticed that obstinate and deep-rooted maladies in per­
sons otherwise of very athletic frames, seem to yield much more
tardily to the Water-Cure than similar complaints in more delicate
constitutions; so that you will often see, of two persons afflicted by
the same genera of complaints, the feeble and fragile one recover
before the stout man with Atlantic shoulders evinces one symptom
of amelioration.
“ These eases, on the other hand, in which the Water-Cure seems
an absolute panacea, and in which the patient may commence with
the most sanguine hopes, are, First, rheumatism, however prolonged,
howerer complicated. In this the cure is usually rapid—nearly al­
ways permanent. Secondly, gout. Here its efiicacy is little less
startling to appearance than in the former case; it seems to lake up
the disease by the roots; it extracts the peculiar acid, which often
appears in discolorations upon the sheets used in the application, or
is ejected in other modes. Hut here, judging always front eases sub­
jected to my personal knowledge, 1 have not seen instances to justify
the assertion of some water-doctors, that returns of the disease do
not occur. The predisposition—the tendency, has appeared to me
to remain. The patient is liable to relapses, but I have invariably
found them./or less frequent, less strengthened, and readily suscepti­
ble of simple and speedy cure, especially if the habits remain tem­
perate.
H U t.W EIt ON W ATER CURE.
. “Thirdly, that wide and grisly family ef allliclion, classed under
the common name of d y sp e p sia . AH derangements of the digestive
organs, imperfect powers of nutrition—the m a la ise of an injured
stomach, appear precisely the complaints on which the system takes
firmest hold, and in which it effects those cures that convert exis­
tence from a burden into a blessing. Hence it follows that many
nameless and countless complaints proceeding from dornngemont of
the stomach, cease as that great machine is restored to order. I have
seen disorders of the heart which have been pronounced organic by
the learned authorities of the profession, disappear in an incredibly
short time—cases of incipient consumption, in which the seat is in
the nutritious powers, htEtnorrhages, and various congestions, short­
ness of breath, habitual fainting fits, many of what are called impro­
perly nervous complaints, but which, in reality, are indications from
the main ganglionic spring; the disorders produced by the abuse of
powerful medicines, e sp e c ia lly m e rc u ry and iodine, the loss of appe­
tite, the dulled sense, und the shaking hand of intemperance, skin
complaints, and the dire scourge of scrofula—all these seem to ob­
tain, from hydropathy, relief—nay, absolute and unqualified cure,
beyond not only the means of the most skillful drug doctor, but the
hopes of the most sanguine patient.*
“ The cure may be divided into two branches—the process for
acute complaints—that for chronic; 1 have just referred to the last.
And great as are there its benefits, they seem common-place beside
the effect the system produces in acute complaints. Fever, including
the scarlet and the typhus, influenza, meazlcs, small pox, the sudden
and rapid disorders of children, arc cured with a simplicity and pre­
cision which must, I am persuaded, sooner or later, render the re­
sources of the hydropalhist the ordinary treatment for such acute
complaints in the hospitals. The principal remedy here employed
by the water-doctor is, the wet-sheet packing, which excites such
terror amongst the uninitiated, and which, of all the curatives adopted
by hydropathy, is unquestionably the safest—the one that can be
applied without danger to the greatest variety of cases, and which I
do not hesitate to aver, can rarely, if ever, be misapplied in any cases
where the pulse is hard und high, and the skin dry and burning. I
have found, in conversation, so much misapprehension of this very
easy and very luxurious remedy, that I may be pardoned for re-ex-
plainiug what has been explained so often. It is not, as people per­
sist in supposing, that patients are put into wet sheets and there left
to shiver. The sheets, after being saturated, are well wrung out—
the patient quickly wrapped in them—several blankets lightly ban-
14
• Amongst other complaints, I may nili! dropsy, n liii li in its simple slate, and not
ns tlie Clowning system nf a wnnwnit cnntlilnlioti, I live known most success­
fully Itcalcd •,rasesof slight paralysis ; amt l have witnessedtwo instances of partial
liliudncss, in wlneli the sight tvas restored.
BDLW ER ON W A TER CURE. 15
clawedround, and nfcalhcr bed placed at lop; thus, especially where
llicrc is the least fever, the first momentary chill is promptly suc­
ceeded by a gradual and vivifying warmth, perfectly free from the
irritation of d r y heat—a delicious sense of ease is usually followed
by a sleep more agreeable than anodynes ever produced. It seems a
positive cruelly to be relieved from this magic girdle, in which pain
is lulled,and fever cooled,and watchfulness lapped in slumber. The
bath which succeeds refreshes and braces the skin, which the opera­
tion relaxed and softened; they only who have tried this, after fa­
tigue or in fever, can form the least notion of its pleasurable sensa­
tions, or of its extraordinary efficacy; nor is there any thing startling
or novel in its theory. In hospitals now water-dressings are found
the best poultice to an inflamed member; this expansion of the wet
dressing is a poultice to the whole inflamed surface of the body. It
docs not differ greatly, except in its cleanliness and simplicity, from
the old remedy of the ancients—the wrapping the body in the skins
of animals newly slain, or placing it on dung-hills, or immersing it
as now in Germany, in the soft slough of mud baths." Its theory is
that of warmth and moisture, those friendliest agents to inflammatory
disorders. lit fact, I think it the duty of every' man, on whom the
lives of others depend, to make himself acquainted with at least this
part of the Water-Cure :— the wet sheet is the true life preserver. In
the large majority of sudden inflammatory complaints, the doctor at
a distance, prompt measures indispensable, it will at the least arrest
the disease, chock the fever, till, if you prefer the drugs, the drugs
can come— the remedy is at hand wherever you can find a bed and a
jug of water; and whatever else you may apprehend after a short
visit to a hydropathic establishment, your fear of that bugbear— the
wet sheet— is the first you banish. The only cases, I believe, where
it can be positively mischievous is, where the pulse scarcely beats—
where the vital sense is extremely low—where the inanition of the
frame forbids the necessary reaction in cholera, and certain disorders
of the chest and bronchia; otherwise, at all ages, from the infant to
the octogenarian, it is equally applicable, and in most acute cases,
equally innocent.
“ Hydropathy being thus rapidly beneficial in acute disorders, it
follows naturally that it will be quick asacure in chronic complaints
in proportion as acute symptoms are mixed with them, and slowest
where such complaints are dull and lethargic— it will be slowest
also where the nervous exhaustion is the greatest. With children,
its effects, really, and genuinely, can scarcely be exaggerated; in•
• A very eminent physicianopposed generallyto tlic Water-Cure,told me that he
had effected a perfect cure in a ease ill invereralc leprosy, by swathing the patient
in wet lint covered with oil skin. Tins is tlm wet sheet parking, lint there are
patients who would take kindly to wet lint, and shudder at the idea of a wet sheet!
16 UUI.W EH ON W ATER CORE.
than, the nervous system, not weakened by toil, griof, anxiety, and
intemperance, lends itself to the gracious element as n young plant
to the rains. When I see. how some tender mother coddling, and
physicing, and preserving from every breath of air, and swaddling
in flannels, her pallid little ones, I long to pounce upon the callow
brood, and bear them to the bills of Malvern, and the diamond foun­
tain of SL Anne’s—with what rosy faces and robust limbs I will
promise they shall return—alas! I promise and preach in vain—
the family apothecary is against me, and the progeny arc doomed to
rhubarb and the rickets.
“ The Water-Cure, ns yet, has had this evident injustice—the
patients resorting to it have mostly been desperate cases. So strong
n notion prevails that it is a desperate remedy, that they only who
have found all else fail have dragged themselves to the Bcthcsdn
Pools. That all thus not only abandoned by hope and the College,
but weakened and poisoned by the violent medicines absorbed into
their system for a score or so of years—that all should not recover
is not surprising! The wonder is that the number of recoveries
should be so great;—that every now and then we should be sur­
prised by the man whoso untimely grave we predicted when we last
saw him, meeting us in the streets ruddy and stalwart, fresh from the
springs of Gracfcnbcrg, Boppart, Petersham, or Malvern.
“ The remedy is no! desperate; it is simpler, I do not say than
any dose, but than any course of medicine—it is infinitely more
agreeable—it admits no remedies for the complaints which arc
inimical to the constitution. It bequeathes none of the maladies
consequent on blue pill and mercury—on purgatives and drastics—
on iodine and aconite—on leeches and the lancet. If it cures your
complaint, it will assuredly strengthen your whole frame ; if it fails
to cure your complaint it can scarcely fail to improve your general
system. As it acts, or ought, scientifically treated, to act first on the
system, lastly on the complaint, placing nature herself in the way to
titrow off the disease, so it constantly happens that the patients at a
hydropathic establishment will tell you that the tlisordcr for which
they came is not removed, but that in all other respects their health
is better than thoy ever remember it to have boon. Thus, I would
not only recommend it to those who are sufferers from some grave
disease; but to those who require merely the fillip, the alterative,
or the bracing which they now often seek in vain in country air or a
watering place. For such, three weeks at Malvern will do more
than three months at Brighton or Bolognc; for at the Water-Cure
llic whole life is one remedy; the hours, the habits, the discipline—
not incompatible with gaiety and cheerfulness (the spirits of hydro-
pathists arc astounding, and in high spirits all things arc amuse­
ment) tend per force to train the body to the highest state of health
of which it is capable. Compare this life, O merchant, O trader,
DULWF.H ON W A TER CURE. n
O mail of business, escaping to (lie sen-shore, with that which you
there lead—with your shrimps and your shell-fish and your wine
and your brown stout—with all which counteracts in the evening,
the good of your morning dip and your noon-day stroll. What, I
own, I should envy most is the robust, healthy man, only a little
knocked down by his city cares or his town pleasures, after his
second week at Dr. Wilson’s establishment—yea,bow I should envy
tho exquisite pleasure which lie would derive from that robustness
made clear and sensible to him. The pure taste, the iron muscles,
the exuberant spirits, the overflowing sense of life. If even to the
weak and languid the Water-Cure gives hours of physical happiness
which tho pleasures of tho grosser senses can never bestow, what
would it give to the strong man, from whose eye it has but to lift
tlic light film—in whose mechanism, attuned to joy, it but brushes
away the grain of dust, or oils the solid wheel.
“ 1must bring my letter to a close. 1 meant to address it through
yon, Mr. Editor, chiefly to our brethren—the over-jaded sons of toil
and letters—behind whom 1 see the warning shades of departed
martyrs. But it is applicable to all who ail—to all who would not
only cure a complaint, but strengthen a system and prolong a life.
T o such, who will so far attach value to my authority that they will
acknowledge, at least, I am no interested witness—for I have no in­
stitution to establish—no profession to build up—I have no eye to
fees, my calling is but that of an observer—as an observer only do I
speak, it may be with enthusiasm—but enthusiasm built on expe­
rience and prompted by sympathy;—to such then as may listen to
me, I give this recommendation : |>ausc, if you please—inquire, if
you will—but do not consult your doctor. I have no doubt he is
a most honest, excellent man—but you cannot expect a doctor of
drugs to say other than that doctors of water arc but quacks. Do
not consult vour doctor whether you shall try hydropathy, but find
out some intelligent persons in whose shrewdness you can confide—
who have been patients themselves at a hydropathic establishment.—
Better still, go for a few days—the cost is not much—into some
such institution yourself, look round, talk to the patients, examine
with your own eyes, hear with your own ears, before you adventure
the experiment. Become a witness before you arc a patient; if tho
evidence does not satisfy you, turn and flee. But if you venture,
venture with a good heart and a stout faith.—Hope, but not with
presumption. Do not fancy that the disorder which has aflliclcd you
for ten years ought to bn cured in ten days. Beware, abuve all,
lest, alarmed by some phenomena which the searching element pro­
duces, you have recourse immediately to drugs to disperse them.
The water boils, for instance, which arc sometimes, as 1 have before
said, but by no means frequently, a critical symptom of the cure, arc,
in all eases that I have seen, cured easily by water, but may become
IS RU I.W ER OS W ATER CURE.
extremely dangerous in the hands of your apothecary. Most of the
few solitary instances that have terminated fatally, to the prejudice
of the Water-Cure, have h'ccn those in which the patient has gone
from water to drugs. It is the axiom of the system that water only
cures what water produces. Do not leave a hydropathic establish­
ment in the time of any “ crisis,” however much you may be panic
stricken. Hold the doctor responsible for getting you out of what
he gets you into; and if your doctor be discreetly chosen, take my
word, lie will do it.
Do not b eg in to carry on the system at home, and under any eye
but that of an experienced hydropathist. After you know the sys­
tem, and the doctor knows you, the curative process may p r o b a b ly
be continued at your own house with ease—but the commencement
must be watched, and if a critical action ensues when you arc at
home, return to the only care that can conduct it safely to a happy
issue. When at the institution, do not let the example of other
patients tempt you to overdo—to drink more water, or take more
baths than are prescribed to you. Above all, never let the eulogies
which many will pass upon the douche (the popular bath) tempt you
to take it on the sly, unknown to your adviser. The douche is
dangerous when the body is unprepared—when the heart is affected—
when apoplexy may be feared.
For your choice of an establishment you have a wide range. In­
stitutions in England arc now plentiful, and planted in some of the
loveliest spots of our island. But as I only spenk from personal
knowledge, I can but here depose as to such ns 1 have visited. I
hear, indeed, a high character of Doctor Johnson, of Stansted-Bury,
and his books show great ability. Much is said in praise of Doctor
Freeman, of Cheltenham, though his system, in some measure, is at
variance with the received notions of hydropathists. But of these,
and many others, perhaps no less worthy of confidence, 1 have no
experience of my own. 1 have sojourned with advantage at Doctor
Weiss’s, at Petersham ; and for those whose business and avocations
oblige them to bo near London, his very agreeable house proffers
many advantages, besides his own practice and great skill.
To those who wish to try the system abroad, and shrink from the
long journey to Gracfcnberg, Doctor Schmidt at Boppart, proffers a
princely house, comprising every English comfort, amidst the noble
scenery of the Rhine, and 1can bear ready witness to his skill; but
it is natural that the place which has for inc the most grateful recol­
lections, should be that where I received the earliest and the greatest
benefit, viz: Doctor Wilson’3 at Malvern; there even the distance
BU LW ER ON W ATER CURE. 1!)
from the capital has its advantages * The euro imperatively demands,
at least in a large proportion of eases, abstraction from all the habi­
tual cares of life, and in some the very neighborhood of London
aulliccs to produce restlcsncss and anxiety. For certain complaints,
especially those of children, and such os nrc attended with debility,
the air of Malvern is in itself llygcian. The water is immemorially
celebrated for its purity, the landscape is a perpetual pleasure to the
eye—the mountains furnish the exercise most suited to the cure—
11M a n m u ss G eb erg e h a b e n “ one must have mountains,” is the say­
ing of Pricssnitz. All these arc powerful auxiltiarics, and yet all
these are subordinate to the diligent, patient care—the minute, un­
wearied attention—the anxious, unaffected interest, which Doctor
Wilson manifests in every patient, from the humblest to the highest,
who may be submitted to his care. The vast majority of difficult
cures which I have witnessed, have emanated from his skill. A
pupil of the celebrated Broussais, his anatomical knowledge is con­
siderable, and his tact in diseases seems intuitive; he has that pure
pleasure in his profession that the profits of it seem to be almost lost
sight of, and having an independence of his own, his enthusiasm for
the system he pursues is at least not bascil upon any mercenary
speculation. I have seen him devote the same time and care to those
whom his liberal heart has led him to treat gratuitously as to the
wealthiest of his patients, and I mention this lest to praise him for
generosity, than to show that he has that earnest faith in his own
system, which begets an earnest faith in those to whom he adminis­
ters. In all new experiments, it is a great thing to have confidence,
not only in the skill, but the sincerity, of your adviser—his treat­
ment is less violent and energetic than that in fashion on the conti­
nent. If he errs it is on the side of caution, and his theory leads
him so much towards the restoration of the whole system, that the
relief of the particular malady will sometimes seem tedious in order
to prove complete. lienee, he inspires in those who have had a
prolonged experience of his treatment a great seusc of safety and
security. For your impatient self, you might sometimes prefer the
vanttiro of a brisker process; for those in whom you are interested,
and for whom you arc fearful, you would not risk a step more hur­
ried. And since there is no small responsibility in recommending
any practitioner of a novel school, so it is a comfort to know that
whoever resorts to Doctor Wilson, will at least be in hands not only
practised and skillful, but wary and safe. He may fail in doing good,
lint I never met with a single patient who accused him of doing
• Dr. Gull}',whose writings on medical subjects arc well known,is also established
at Malvern, and I believerather as a partneror associate thana rival toDr. Wilson.
As I was not under his treatment, 1 cannot speak farther of his skill than that he
seemed to have the entire confidence of such of his patients as I became acquainted
with.
2 0 u u i.w e r on w a t e r c u k e .
barm. Ami I may add, that as in all establishments much of comfort
mnst depend on the lady at the hcad,s0, for female patients especially,
it is no small addition to the a g r e m n u of Malvern, to find in Mrs.
Wilson the manners of a perfect gentlewomen, and the noislcss soli­
citude of a heart genuinely kind and good!
“ Here then, O brothers, O alllictcd ones, I bid you farewell. I
wish you one of the most blessed friendships man ever made—the
familiar intimacy with Water. Not Undine in her virgin existence
more sportive and bewitching—not Undine in her wedded state more
tender and faithful than the element of which she is the type. In
health may you find it the joyous playmate, in sickness the genial
restorer and soft assuager. Hound the healing spring still literally
dwell the jocund nymphs in whom the Greek poetry personified
Mirth and Ease. No drink, whether compounded of the gums and
rosin of the old Fnlcrcimi, or the alcohol and acid of modern wine,
gives the animal spirits which rejoice the water drinker. Let him
who has to go through severe bodily fatigue try first whatever—wine,
spirits, porter, beer—he may conceive most generous and supporting;
let him then go through the same toil with no draughts but from the
chryslal lymph, and if he docs not acknowledge that there is no
beverage which man concocts so strengthening and animating as that
which God pours forth to all the children of nature, I throw up my
brief. Finally, as health depends upon healthful habits, let those
who desire easily and luxuriously to glide into the courses most
agreeable to the human frame, to enjoy the morning breeze, to grow
epicures in the simple regimen, to become cased in armor against the
vicissitudes of our changeful skies—to feel, and to shake oil', light
sleep as a blessed dew, let them, while the organs arc yet sound, and
the nerves yet unshattcred, devote an autumn to the Water-Cure.
And you, O parents 1 who, too indolent, too much slaves to cus­
tom, to endure change for yourselves, to renounce for awhile your
artificial natures, but who still covet for your children hardy consti­
tutions, pure tastes, and abstemious habits—who wish to see them
grow up with a manly disdain to luxury—with a vigorous indiffer­
ence to climate—with a full sense of the value of health, not alone
for itself, hut for the powers it elicits, and the virtues with which it
is intimately connected—the serene, unfretfui temper—the pleasures
in innocent delights—the well being that, content with self, expands
in benevolence to others—you I adjure not to scorn the facile pro­
cess of which I solicit the experiment. Dip your young heroes in
the spring, and hold them not back by the heel. May my exhorta­
tions find believing listeners, and may some, now unknown to me,
write me word from the green hills of Malvern, or the groves of Pe­
tersham, “ We have hearkened to you—not in vain.” Adieu, Mr.
Editor, the ghost returns to silence.
F.. I.YTTON I1UI.WER.
