{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__martineau___letters_on_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Letters On Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
LETTERS ON
R I S
M»///l»//»—
«
"
NEW-YORK:
PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS,
No. 82 Cliff-Street.
1845.
F
M5S51-
MISS MARTINEAU'S
LETTERS ON MESMERISM.
LETTER I.
Tynemouth, Nov. 12.
It is important to society to know whe-
ther Mesmerism is true. The revival of
its pretensions from age to age makes the
negative of this question appear so improb-
able, and the affirmative involves anticipa-
tions .so vast, that no testimony of a con-
scientious witness can be unworthy of
attention. I am now capable of affording
testimony ; and all personal considerations
must give way before the social duty of im-
parting the facts of which I am possessed.
Those who know Mesmerism to be true
from their own experience are now a large
number ; many more, I believe, than is at
all supposed by those who have not attend-
ed to the subject. Another considerable
class consists of those who believe upon
testimony : who find it impossible not to
yield credit to the long array of cases in
many books, and to the attestation of
friends whose judgment and veracity they
are in the habit of respecting. After these
there remain a good many who amuse
themselves with observing some of the
effects of Mesmerism, calling them strange
and unaccountable, and then going away
and thinking no more about them ; and
lastly, the great majority who know noth-
ing of the matter, and are so little aware
of its seriousness as to call it " a bore," or
to laugh at it as nonsense or a cheat.
If nonsense, it is remarkable that those
who have most patiently and deeply exam-
ined it, should be the most firmly and in-
variably convinced of its truth. If it is a
cheat, it is no laughing matter. If large
numbers of men can, age after age, be help-
lessly prostrated under such a delusion as
this, under a wicked influence so potential
over mind and body, it is one of the most
mournful facts in the history of man.
For some years before June last, I was
in the class of believers upon testimony.
I had witnessed no mesmeric facts what-
ever ; but I could not doubt the existence
of many which were related to me without
distrusting either the understanding, or the
integrity, of some of the wisest and best
people I knew. Nor did I find it possible
to resist the evidence of books, of details
of many cases of protracted bodily and
mental effects. Nor, if it had been possi-
ble, could I have thought it desirable or
philosophical to set up my negative igno-
rance of the functions of the nerves°and
the powers of the mind, against the posi-
tive evidence of observers and recorders
of new phenomena. People do not, or
ought not, to reach my years without
learning that the strangeness and absolute
novelty of facts attested by more than one
mind is rather a presumption of their truth
than the contrary, as there would be some-
thing more familiar in any devices or con-
ceptions of men; that our researches into
the powers of nature, of human nature
with the rest, have as yet gone such a lit-
tle way thg* many discoveries are yet to be
looked for ; and that, while we have hardly
recovered from the surprise of the new
lights thrown upon the functions and tex-
ture of the human frame by Harvey, Bell,
and others, it is too soon to decide that
there shall be no more as wonderful, and
presumptuous in the extreme to predeter-
mine what they shall or shall not be.
Such was the state of my mind on the
subject of Mesmerism six years ago, when
I related a series of facts, on the testimo-
ny of five persons whom I could trust, to
one whose intellect I was accustomed to
look up to, though I had had occasion to see
that great discoveries were received or re-
jected by him on other grounds than the
evidence on which their pretensions rest-
ed. He threw himself back in his chair
when I began my story, exclaiming, " Is it
possible that you are bit by that nonsense ?"
On my declaring the amount of testimony
on which I believed what I was telling, he
declared, as he frequently did afterwards,
that if he saw the incidents himself, he
would not believe them; he would sooner
think himself and the whole company mad
than admit them. This declaration diii
xMISS MARTINEAU'S
good ; though, of course, it gave mc con-
cern. It showed me that I must keep my
mind free, and must observe and decide in-
dependently, as there could be neither help
nor hindrance from minds self-exiled in this
way from the region of evidence. From
that time till June last, I was, as I have said,
a believer in Mesmerism on testimony.
The reason why I did not qualify myself
for belief or disbelief on evidence was a
substantial one. From the early summer
of 1839, I was, till this autumn, a prisoner
from illness. My recovery now, by means
of mesmeric treatment alone, has given
me the most thorough knowledge possible
that Mesmerism is true.
This is not the place in which to give any
details of disease. It will be sufficient to
explain briefly, in order to render my story
intelligible, that the internal disease,, under
which I have suffered, appears to have been
coming on for many years ; that after warn-
ings of failing health, which I carelessly
overlooked, I broke down, while travelling
abroad, in June, 1839 ; that I sank lower
and lower for three years after my return,
and remained nearly stationary for two
more, preceding last June. During these
five years, I never felt wholly at ease for
one single hour. I seldom had severe pain
;
but never entire comfort. A besetting sick-
ness, almost disabling me from taking food
for two years, brought me very low; and,
together with other evils, it confined me to
a condition of almost entire stillness—to a
life passed between my bed and my sofa.
It was not till after many attempts at gen-
tle exercise that my friends agreed with
me that the cost was too great for any ad-
vantage gained : and at length it was clear
that even going down one flight of stairs
was imprudent. From that time, I lay
still ; and by means of this undisturbed
quiet, and such an increase of opiates as
kept down my most urgent discomforts, I
passed the last two years with less suffer-
ing than the three preceding. There was,
however, no favourable change in the dis-
ease. Everything was done for me that
the best medical skill and science could
suggest, and the most indefatigable hu-
manity and family affection devise : but
nothing could avail beyond mere allevia-
ation. My dependence on opiates was
desperate. My kind and vigilant medical
friend—the most sanguine man I know,
and the most bent upon keeping his pa-
tents hopeful— avowed to me last Christ-
mas, and twice afterwards, that he found
himself compelled to give up all hope of
affecting the disease—of doing more than
keeping me up, in collateral respects, to
the highest practicable point. This was
no surprise to me ; for when any specific
medicine is taken for above two years
without affecting the disease, there is no
more ground for hope in reason than in
. In June last, I suffered more than
usual, and new measures of alleviation
were resorted to. As to all the essential
points of the disease, I was never lower
than immediately before 1 made trial of
Mesmerism.
If, at any time during my illness, I had
been asked, with serious purpose, whether
I believed there was no resource for me, 1
should have replied that Mesmerism might
perhaps give me partial relief. I thought
it right—and still think it was right—to
wear out all other means first. It was not,
however, for the reason that the testimony
might be thus rendered wholly unquestion-
able—though I now feel my years of suf-
fering but a light cost for such result: it
was for a more personal reason that I wait-
ed. Sprrounded as I was by relations and
friends, who, knowing nothing of Mesmer-
ism, regarded it as a delusion or an impos-
ture—tenderly guarded and cared for as I
was by those who so thought, and who
went even further than myself in deference
for the ordinary medical science and prac-
tice it was morally impossible for me to en-
tertain the idea of trying Mesmerism while
any hope was cherished from other means.
If it had not been so, there was the diffi-
culty that I could not move, to go in search
of aid from Mesmerists ; and to bring it
hither while other means were in course
of trial was out of the question. After my
medical friend's avowal of his hopeless-
ness, however, I felt myself not only at
liberty, but in duty bound, to try, if possi-
ble, the only remaining resource for alle-
viation. I felt then, and I feel now, that
through all mortification of old prejudices,
and all springing up of new, nobody in the
world would undertake to say I was wrong
in seeking even recovery by any harmless
means, when every other hope was given
up by all : and it was not recovery that was
in my thoughts, but only solace. It never
presented itself to me as possible that dis-
ease so long and deeply fixed could be re-
moved ; and I was perfectly sincere in say-
ing that the utmost I looked for was release
from my miserable dependence on opiates.
Deep as are my obligations to my faithful
and skilful medical friend, for a long course
of humane effort on his part, no one kind-
ness of his has touched me so sensibly as
the grace with which he met my desire to
try a means of which he had no knowledge
or opinion, and himself brought over l.he
Mesmerist under whom the first trial of
my susceptibility was made.
Last winter, I wrote to two friends in
London, telling them of my desire to trv
Mesmerism, and entreating them to be on
the watch to let me know if any one came
this way of whose aid I might avail myself.
They watched for me, and one made it a
business to gain all the information she
could on my behalf; but nothing was ae-
LETTERS ON MESMERISM.
tually done, or seemed likely to be done,
when in June a sudden opening for the ex-
periment was made, without any effort of
my own, and on the 22nd I found myself,
for the first time, under the hands of a
Mesmerist.
It all came about easily and naturally
at last. I had letters—several of them
in the course of ten days—one relating
a case in which a surgeon, a near relative
of mine, had, to his own astonishment, op-
erated on a person in the mesmeric sleep
•without causing pain; one from an invalid
friend, ignorant of Mesmerism, who sug-
gested it to me as a ;j?'s aller; and one from
Mr. and Mrs. Basil Montagu, who, suppos-
ing me an unbeliever, yet related to me the
case of Ann Vials, and earnestly pressed
upon me the expediency of a trial : and, at
the same time, Mr. Spencer T. Hall being
at Newcastle lecturing, my medical friend
went out of curiosity, was impressed by
what he saw, and came to me very full of
the subject. I told him what was in my
mind ; and I have said above with what a
grace he met my wishes, and immediately
set about gratifying them.
At the end of four months I was, as far
as my own feelings could be any warrant,
quite well. My mesmerist and I are not
so precipitate as to conclude my disease
yet extirpated, and my health established
beyond all danger of relapse ; because time
only can prove such facts. We have not
yet discontinued the mesmeric treatment,
and I have not re-entered upon the hurry
and bustle of the world. The case is thus
not complete enough for a professional
statement. But, as I am aware of no ail-
ment, and am restored to the full enjoy-
ment of active days and nights of rest, to
the full use of my powers of body and
mind, and as many invalids, still languish-
ing in such illness as I have recovered
from, are looking to me for guidance in
the pursuit of health by the same means, I
think it right not to delay giving a precise
statement of my own mesmeric experi-
ence, and of my observation of some dif-
ferent manifestations in the instance of
another patient in the same house. A fur-
ther reason against delay is, that it would
be a pity to omit the record of some of
the fresh feelings and immature ideas
which attend an early experience of mes-
meric influence, and which it may be an
aid and comfort to novices to recognize
from my record. And again, as there is
no saying, in regard to a subject so ob-
scure, what is trivial and what is not, the
fullest detail is likelv to be the wisest, and
the earlier the narrative the fuller; while
better knowledge will teach us hereafter
what are the non-essentials that may be
dismissed.
On Saturday, June 22nd, Mr. Spencer
Hall and my medical friend came, as ar-
ranged, at my worst hour of the day, be-
tween the expiration of one opiate and the
taking of another. By an accident the gen-
tlemen were rather in a hurry—a circum-
stance unfavourable to a first experiment.
But result enough was obtained to encour-
age a further trial, though it was of a na-
ture entirely unanticipated by me. I had
no other idea than that I should either
drop asleep or feel nothing. I did not
drop asleep, and I did feel something very
strange.
Various passes were tried by Mr. Hall
;
the first of those that appeared effectual,
and the most so for some time after, were
passes over the head, made from behind
—
passes from the forehead to the back of the
head and a little way down the spine. A
very short time after these were tried, and
twenty minutes from the beginning of the
seance, I became sensible of an extraordi-
nary appearance, most unexpected, and
wholly unlike anything I had ever con-
ceived of. Something seemed to diffuse
itself through the atmosphere—not like
smoke, nor steam, nor haze—but most like
a clear twilight, closing in from the win-
dows and down from the ceiling, and in
which one object after another melted
away, till scarcely anything was left visi-
ble before my wide-opened eyes. First,
the outlines of all objects were blurred;
then a bust, standing on a pedestal in a
strong light, melted quite away; then the
opposite bust, then the table with its gay
cover, then the floor, and the ceiling, till
one small picture, high up on the opposite
wall, only remained visible—like a patch
of phosphoric light. I feared to move my
eyes, lest the singular appearance should
vanish; and I cried out, "O! deepen it!
deepen it
!''
supposing this the precursor
of the sleep. It could not be deepened,
however; and when I glanced aside from
the luminous point, 1 found that 1 need not
fear the return of objects to their ordinary
appearance while the passes were contin-
ued. The busts re-appeared, ghost-like, in
the dim atmosphere, like faint shadows,
except that their outlines, and the parts in
the highest relief, burned with the same
phosphoric light. The fealures of one, an
Isis with bent head, seemed to be illu-
mined by a fire on the floor, though this
bust has its back to the windows. Wher-
ever I glanced, all outlines were dressed in
this beautiful light; and so they have been,
at every seance, without exception, to this
day ; though the appearance has rather
given way to drowsiness since I left off
opiates entirely This appearance contin-
ued during the remaining twenty minutes
before the gentlemen were obliged to leave
me. The other effects produced were, first,
heat, oppression and sickness, and, for a
few hours after, disordered stomach; fol-
lowed, in the course of the evening, by a
MISS MARTINEAU'S
feeling of lightness and relief, in which I
thought I could hardly be mistaken.
On occasions of a perfectly new experi-
ence, however, scepticism and self-distrust
are very strong. I was aware of this be-
forehand, and also, of course, of the com-
mon sneer—that mesmeric effects are " all
imagination." When the singular appear-
ances presented themselves, I thought to
myself,
—" Now, shall I ever believe that
this was all fancy] When it is gone, and
when people laugh, shall 1 ever doubt hav-
ing seen what is now as distinct to my
waking eyes as the rolling waves of yon-
der sea, or the faces round my sofa ?" I
did a little doubt it in the course of the
evening : I had some misgivings even so
soon as that ; and yet more the next morn-
ing, when it appeared like a dream.
Great was the comfort, therefore, of re-
cognizing the appearancces on the second
afternoon. " Now," thought I, " can I again
doubt?" I did, more faintly; but, before
a week was over, 1 was certain of the fidel-
ity of my own senses in regard to this, and
more.
There was no other agreeable experi-
ence on this second afternoon. Mr. Hall
was exhausted and unwell, from having
mesmerized many patients ; and I was
more oppressed and disordered than on the
preceding day, and the disorder continued
for a longer time : but again, towards night,
I felt refreshed and relieved. How much
of my ease was to be attributed to Mesmer-
ism, and how much to my accustomed opi-
ate, there was no saying, in the then un-
certain state of my mind.
The next day, however, left no doubt.
Mr. Hall was prevented by illness from
coming over, too late to let me know.
Unwilling to take my opiate while in ex-
pectation of his arrival, and too wretched
to do without some resource, I rang for
my maid, and asked whether she had any
objection to attempt what she saw Mr.
"Hall do the day before. With the greatest
jlacrity she complied. Within one minute
foe twilight and phosphoric lights appear-
ed; and in two or three more, a delicious
sensation of ease spread through me,—
a
cool comfort, before which all pain and
distress gave way, oozing out, as it were,
at the soles of my feet. During that hour,
and almost the whole evening. I could no
more help exclaiming with pleasure than
a person in torture crying out with pain.
I became hungry, and ate with relish, for
the first time for five years. There was
no heat, oppression, or sickness during the
seance, nor any disorder afterwrrds. Du-
ring the whole evening, instead of the lazy
hot ease of opiates, under which pain is
felt to lie in wait, I experienced something
of the indescribable sensation of health,
which I had quite lost and forgotten. I
walked about my rooms, and was gay and
talkative. Something of this relief re-
mained till the next morning; and then
there was no reaction. I was no worse
than usual ; and perhaps rather better.
Nothing is to me more unquestionable
and more striking about this influence than
the absence of all reaction. Its highest
exhilaration is followed, not by depression
or exhaustion, but by a further renovation.
From the first hour to the present, I have
never fallen back a single step. Every
point gained has been steadily held. Im-
proved composure of nerve and spirits has
followed upon every mesmeric exhilara-
tion. I have been spared all the weak-
nesses of convalescence, and have been
carried through all the usually formida-
ble enterprises of return from deep disease
to health with a steadiness and tranquillity
astonishing to all witnesses. At this time,
before venturing to speak of my health as
established, I believe myself more firm in
nerve, more calm and steady in mind and
spirits, than at any time of my life before.
So much, in consideration of the natural
and common fear of the mesmeric influ-
ence as pernicious excitement—as a kind
of intoxication.
When Mr. Hall saw how congenial was
the influence of this new Mesmerist, he
advised our going on by ourselves, which
we did until the 6th of September.
I owe much to Mr. Hall for his disinter-
ested zeal and kindness. He did for me
all he could ; and it was much to make a
beginning, and put us in the way of pro-
ceeding.
>
LETTERS ON MESMERISM.
LETTER II.
I next procured, for guidance, Deleuze's
'Instruction Pratique sur le Magnetisme
Animal.' Out of this I directed my maid :
and for some weeks we went on pretty
well. Finding my appetite and digestion
sufficiently improved, I left off tonics, and
also the medicine which j had taken for
two years and four months, in obedience
to my doctor's hope of affecting the dis-
ease,—though the eminent physician who
saw me before that time declared that he
had " tried it in an infinite number of such
cases, and never knew it avail." I never
felt the want of these medicines, nor oth-
ers which I afterwards discontinued. From
the first week in August, I took no medi-
cines but opiates ; and these I was gra-
dually reducing. These particulars are
mentioned to show how early in the expe-
riment Mesmerism became my sole reli-
ance.
On four days, scattered through six
weeks, our seance was prevented by visit-
ers, or other accidents. On these four
days, the old distress and pain recurred
;
but never on the days when I was mes-
merized.
From the middle of August (after I had
discontinued all medicines but opiates),
the departure of the worst pains and op-
pressions of my disease made me suspect
that the complaint itself,—the incurable,
hopeless disease of so many years,—was
reached ; and now I first began to glance
towards the thought of recovery. In two
or three weeks more, it became certain
that r was not deceived ; and the radical
amendment has since gone on, without in-
termission.
Another thing, however, was also be-
coming clear : that more aid was neces-
sary. My maid did for me whatever, un-
der my own instruction, good-will and
affection could do. But the patience and
strenuous purpose required in a case of
such long and deep seated disease can
only be looked for in an educated person,
so familiar with the practice of Mesmer-
ism as to be able to keep a steady eye on
the end, through all delays and doubtful
incidents. And it is also important, if not
necessary, that the predominance of will
should be in the Mesmerist, not the pa-
tient. The offices of an untrained servant
may avail perfectly in a short case,—for
the removal of sudden pain, or a brief ill-
ness •
but, from the subordination being in
the wrong party, we found ourselves com-
ing to a stand.
This difficulty was abolished by the
kindness and sagacity of Mr. Atkinson,
who had been my adviser throughout. He
explained my position to a friend of his—
a lady, the widow of a clergyman, deeply
and practically interested in Mesmerism
—
possessed of great Mesmeric power, and
of those high qualities of mind and heart
which fortify and sanctify its influence.
In pure zeal and benevolence, this lady
came to me, and has been with me ever
since. When I found myself able to re-
pose on the knowledge and power (mental
and moral) of my Mesmerist, the last im-
pediments to my progress were cleared
away, and I improved accordingly.
Under her hands the visual appearances
and other immediate sensations were much
the same as before ; but the experience of
recovery was more rapid. I can describe
it only by saying, that I felt as if my life
were fed from day to day. The vital force
infused or induced was as clear and certain
as the strength given by food to those who
are faint from hunger. I am careful to
avoid theorizing at present on a subject
w-hich has not yet furnished me with a
sufficiency of facts ; but it can hardly be
called theorizing to say (while silent as to
the nature of the agency) that the princi-
ple of life itself—that principle which is
antagonistic to disease —appears to be for-
tified by the mesmeric influence ; and thus
far we may account for Mesmerism being
no specific, but successful through the wi-
dest range of diseases that are not heredi-
tary, and have not caused disorganization.
No mistake about Mesmerism is more pre-
valent than the supposition that it can avail
only in nervous diseases. The numerous
cases recorded of cure of rheumatism,
dropsy, cancer, and the whole class of tu-
mours,—cases as distinct, and almost as
numerous as those of cure of paralysis, epi-
lepsy, and other diseases of the brain and
nerves, must make any inquirer cautious of
limiting his anticipations and experiments
by any theory of exclusive action on the
nervous system. Whether Mesmerism,
and, indeed, any influence whatever, acts
exclusively through the nervous system,
is another question.
A few days after the arrival of my kind
Mesmerist, I had my foot on the grass for
the first time for four years and a half. I
went down to the little garden under my
windows. I never before was in the open
air, after an illness of merely a week or
two, without feeling more or less over-
powered; but now, under the open sky,
after four years and a half spent between
bed and a sofa, I felt no faintness, exhaus-
tion, or nervousness of any kind. I was
somewhat haunted for a day or two by the
stalks of the grass, which I had not seen,
growing for so long (for, well supplied as
I had been with flowers, rich and rare, I
Miss MARfiNKAU'S
had seen no grass, except from my win-
dows) ; but at the time, 1 was as self-pos-
sessed as any walker in the place. In
a day or two, I walked round the garden,
then down the lane, then to the haven, and
so on, till now, in two months, five miles
are no fatigue to me. At first, the eviden-
ces of the extent of the disease were so
clear as to make me think that I had nev-
er before fully understood how ill I had
been. They disappeared one by one ; and
now I feel nothing of them.
The same fortifying influence carried me
through the greatest effort of all, —the final
severance from opiates. What that strug-
gle is, can be conceived only by those
who have experienced, or watched it with
solicitude in a case of desperate depend-
ence on them for years. No previous re-
duction can bridge over the chasm which
separates an opiated from the natural state.
I see in my own experience a consoling
promise for the diseased, and also for the
intemperate, who may desire to regain a
natural condition, but might fail through
bodily suffering. Where the mesmeric
sleep can be induced, the transition may
be made comparatively easy. It appears,
however, that opiates are a great hind-
rance to the production of the sleep ; but
even so, the mesmeric influence is an ines-
timable help, as I can testify. I gave all
my opiates to my Mesmerist, desiring her
not to let me have any on any entreaty
;
and during the day I scarcely felt the want
of them. Her mesmerizing kept me up;
and, much more, it intercepted the dis-
tress,—obviated the accumulation of mis-
eries under which the unaided sufferer is
apt to sink. It enabled me to encounter
every night afresh,—acting as it does in
cases of insanity, where it is all-important
to suspend the peculiar irritation—to ban-
ish the haunting idea. What further aid
I derived in this last struggle from Mes-
merism in another form, I shall mention
when I detail the other case with which
my own became implicated, and in which,
to myself at least, the interest of my own
has completely merged.
It will be supposed that during the whole
experiment, 1 longed to enjoy the mes-
meric sleep, and was on the watch for
some of the wonders which I knew to be
common. The sleep never came, and ex-
cept the great marvel of restored health, I
have experienced less of the wonders than
I have observed in another. Some curi-
ous particulars are, however, worth noting.
The first very striking circumstance to
me, a novice, though familiar enough to
be practised, was the power of my Mes-
merist's volitions, without any co-opera-
tion on my part. One very warm morn-
ing in August, when every body else was
oppressed with heat, I was shivering a lit-
tle under the mesmeric influence of my
maid.—the influence, in those days, caus-
ing the sensation of cold currents running
through me from head to foot. " This
cold will not do for you, ma'am," said M.
'•()!" said I, "it is fresh, and I do not
mind it
:" and immediately my mind went
off to something else. In a few minutes,
I was surprised by a feeling as of warm
water trickling through the channels of the
late cold. In reply to my observation, that
I was warm now. M. said, " Yes, ma'am,
that is What 1 am doing. By inquiry and
observation, it became clear to me, that her
influence was, generally speaking, compo-
sing, just in proportion to her power of
willing that it should be so. When I af-
terwards saw, in the case I shall relate,
how the volition of the Mesmerist caused
immediate waking from the deepest sleep,
and a supposition that the same glass of
water was now wine—now porter, &c, I
became too much familiarized with the
effect to be as much astonished as many
of my readers will doubtless be.
Another striking incident occurred in
one of the earliest of my walks. My Mes-
merist and I had reached a headland nearly
half a mile from home, and were resting
there, when she proposed to mesmerize me
a little —partly to refresh me for our re-
turn, and partly to see whether any effect
would be produced in a new place, and
while a fresh breeze was blowing. She
merely laid her hand on my forehead, and
in a minute or two the usual appearances
came, assuming a strange air of novelty
from the scene in which I was. After the
blurring' of the outlines, which made all
objects more dim than the dull gray day
had already made them, the phosphoric
lights appeared, glorifying every rock and
headland, the horizon, and all the vesseh
in sight. One of the dirtiest and meanest
of the steam tugs in the port was passing
at the time, and it was all dressed in hea-
venly radiance—the last object that any
imagination would select as an element of
a vision. Then, and often before and since,
did it occur to me that if I had been a pi-
ous and very ignorant Catholic, I could
not have escaped the persuasion that I had
seen heavenly visions. Every glorified
object before my open eyes would have
been a revelation ; and my Mesmerist, with
the white halo round her head, and the
illuminated profile, would have been a saint
or an angel.
Sometimes the induced darkening has
been so great, that I have seriously inquir-
ed whether the lamp was not out, when a
few movements of the head convinced me
that it was burning as brightly as ever.
As the muscular power oozes away under
the mesmeric influence, a strange inexpli-
cable feeling ensues of the frame becom.
ing transparent and ductile. My head has
often appeared to be drawn out, to chango
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. 9
its form, according to the traction of my I
Mesmerist, and an indescribable and ex-
ceedingly agreeable sensation of transpa-
rency and lightness, through a part or the
whole of the frame, has followed. Then
begins the moaning, of which so much has
been made, as an indication of pain. I
have often moaned, and much oftener have
been disposed to do so, when the sensa-
tions have been the most tranquil and
agreeable. At such times, my Mesmerist
has struggled not to disturb me by a laugh,
when I have murmured, with a serious
tone, " Here are my hands, but they have
no arms to them :" " O dear! what shall I
do ? here is none of me left !" the intellect
and moral powers being all the while at
their strongest. Between this condition
and the mesmeric sleep there is a state,
transient and rare, of which I have had
experience, but of which I intend to give
no account. A somnambule calls it a glim-
mering of the lights of somnambulism and
clairvoyance. To me there appears no-
thing like glimmering in it. The ideas that
I have snatched from it, and now retain,
are, of all ideas which ever visited me, the
most lucid and impressive. It may be
well that they are incommunicable—partly
from their nature and relations, and partly
from their unfitness for translation into
mere words. I will only say that the con-
dition is one of no " nervous excitement,"
as far as experience and outward indica-
tions can be taken as a test. Such a state
of repose, of calm translucent intellectua-
lity, I had never conceived of; and no re-
action followed, no excitement but that
which is natural to every one who finds
himself in possession of a great new idea.
Before leaving the narrative of my own
case for that of another, widely different,
I put in a claim for my experiment being
considered rational. It surely was so, not
only on account of my previous knowledge
of facts, and of my hopelessness from any
other resource, but on grounds which other
sufferers may share with me ;
—on the
ground that though the science of medi-
cine may be exhausted in any particular
case, it does not follow that curative means
are exhausted ;—on the ground of the ig-
norance of all men of the nature and ex-
tent of the reparative power which lies
under our hand, and which is vaguely indi-
cated by the term "Nature;"—on the
B
ground of the ignorance of all men regard-
ing the very structure, and much more,
the functions of the nervous system ;—and
on the broad ultimate ground of our' total
ignorance of the principle of life,—of what
it is, and where it resides, and whether it
can be reached, and in any way benefi-
cially affected by a voluntary application
of human energy.
It seemed to me rational to seek a way
to refreshment first, and then to health,
amidst this wilderness of ignorances, ra-
ther than to lie perishing in their depths.
The event seems to prove it so. The sto-
ry appears to me to speak for itself. If it
does not assert ilself to all,—if any should,
as is common in cases of restoration by
Mesmerism,—try to account for the result
by any means but those which are obvi-
ous, supposing a host of moral impossibil-
ities rather than admit a plain new fact, I
have no concern with such objectors or
objections.
In a case of blindness cured, once upon
a time, and cavilled at and denied, from
hostility to the means, an answer was giv-
en which we are wont to consider suffi-
ciently satisfactory :
" One thing I know,
that whereas I was blind, now I see."
Those who could dispute the fact after
this must be left to their doubts. They
could, it is true, cast out their restored
brother; but they could not impair his joy
in his new blessing, nor despoil him of his
far higher privileges of belief in and alle-
giance to his benefactor. Thus, whene-
ver, under the Providence which leads on
our race to knowledge and power, any
new blessing of healing arises, it is little to
one who enjoys it what disputes are caus-
ed among observers. To him, the privi-
lege is clear and. substantial. Physically,
having been diseased, he is now well. In-
tellectually, having been blind, he now
sees.
For the wisest this is enough. And
for those of a somewhat lower order, who
have a restless craving for human sympa-
thy in their recovered relish of life, there
is almost a certainty that somewhere near
them there exists hearts susceptible of
simple faith in the unexplored powers of
nature, and minds capable of an ingenuous
recognition of plain facts, though they be
new, and must wait for a theoretical solu-
tion.
10 MISS MAKTINEAU'S
LETTER III.
Tynemouth, Nov. 20, 181 i.
When I entered upon my lodgings here,
nearly five years ago, I was waited upon
by my landlady's niece, a girl of fourteen.
From that time to this, she has been under
my eye ; and now, at the age of nineteen,
she has all the ingenuousness and consci-
entiousness that won my respect at first,
with an increased intelligence and activity
of affections. 1 am aware that personal
confidence, such as I feel for this girl, can-
not be transferred to any other mind by
testimony. Still, the testimony of an in-
mate of the same house for so many years,
as to essential points of character, must
have some weight : and therefore I preface
my story with it. I would add that no
wonders of Mesmerism could be greater
than that a person of such character, age,
and position should be able, for a long suc-
cession of weeks, to do and say things,
every evening, unlike her ordinary sayings
and doings, to tell things out of the scope
of her ordinary knowledge, and to com-
mand her countenance and demeanour, so
that no fear, no mirth, no anger, no doubt,
should ever once make her move a mus-
cle, or change colour, or swerve for one
instant from the consistency of her asser-
tions and denials on matters of fact or
opinion. I am certain that it is not in hu-
man nature to keep up for seven weeks,
without slip or trip, a series of deceptions
so multifarious ; and I should say so of a
perfect stranger, as confidently as I say it
of this girl, whom I know to be incapable
of deception, as much from the character
of her intellect as of her morale. When it
is seen, as it will be, that she has also told
incidents which it is impossible she could
have known by ordinary means, every per-
son who really wishes to study such a case,
will think the present as worthy of atten-
tion as any that can be met with, though
it offers no array of strange tricks, and few
extreme marvels.
My Mesmerist and I were taken by sur-
prise by the occurrence of this case. My
friend's maid told her, on the 1st of Octo-
ber, that J. (our subject) had been suffer-
ing so much the day before, from pain in
the head and inflamed eye, that she (the
maid) had mesmerised her; that J. had
gone off into the deep sleep in five minutes,
and had slept for twenty minutes, when
her aunt, in alarm, had desired that she
should be awakened. J. found herself not
only relieved from pain, but able to eat and
sleep, and to set about her business the
next day with a relish and vigour quite un-
usual. My friend saw at once what an op-
•portunity might here offer for improving
the girl's infirm health, and for obtaining
)
light as to the state and management of my
case, then advancing well, but still a sub-
ject of anxiety.
J. had for six years been subject to fre-
quent severe pain in the left temple, and
perpetually incurring inflammation of the
eyes, with much disorder besides. She is
active and stirring in her habits, patient
and cheerful in illness, and disposed to
make the least, rather than the most, of her
complaints. She had, during these six
years, been under the care of several doc-
tors, and was at one time a patient at the
Eye Infirmary at Newcastle ; and the se-
vere treatment she has undergone is mel-
ancholy to think of, when most of it ap-
pears to have been almost or entirely in
vain. She herself assigns, in the trance,
a structural defect as the cause of her ail-
ments, which will prevent their ever being
entirely removed ; but, from the beginning
of the mesmeric treatment, her health and
looks have so greatly improved, that her
acquaintance in the neighbourhood stop
her to ask how it is that her appearance is
so amended. There was in her case cer-
tainly no " imagination" to begin with ; for
she was wholly ignorant of Mesmerism,
and had no more conception of the phe-
nomena she was about to manifest than
she has consciousness of them at this mo-
ment.
This unconsciousness we have guarded
with the utmost care. We immediately
resolved that, if possible, there should be
one case of which no one could honestly
say that the sleeping and waking states of
mind were mixed. Our object has been,
thus far, completely attained,—one harm-
less exception only having occurred. This
was when, speaking of the nature and des-
tiny of man, an idea which she had " heard
in church" intruded itself among some
otherwise derived, and troubled her by the
admixture. On that occasion, she remark-
ed afterwards, that she had been dreaming,
and, she thought, talking of the soul and the
day of judgment. This is the only instance
of her retaining any trace of anything be-
ing said or done in the trance. Her sur-
prise on two or three occasions, at finding
herself, on awaking, in a different chair
from the one she went to sleep in, must
shew her that she has walked : but we have
every evidence from her reception of what
we say to her, and from her ignorance of
things of which she had previously inform-
ed us, that the time of her mesmeric sleep
is afterwards an absolute blank to her. I
asked her one evening lately, when she was
in the deep sleep, what she would think of
my publishing an account of her experi-
ence with niy own,—whether she should
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. 11
be vexed by it. She replied that she should
like it very much : she hoped somebody
would let her know of it, and show it to
her,—for, though she remembered when
asleep everything she had thought when
asleep before, she could not keep any of
it till she awoke. It was all regularly
" blown away." But if it was printed, she
should know ; and she should like that.
To preserve this unconsciousness as
long as possible, we have admitted no per-
son whatever at our seances, from the first
day till now, who could speak to her on
the subject. We shut out our maids h,t
once ; and we two have been the constant
witnesses, with a visitor now and then, to
the number of about twelve in the whole.
It is a memorable moment when one
first hears the monosyllable, which tells
that the true mesmeric trance has begun.
"Are you asleep V "Yes." It is cros-
sing the threshold of a new region of ob-
servation of human nature. Then it goes
on.—" How long shall you sleep?" " Half
an hour."—" Shall you wake of yourself,
or shall I wake you V " I shall wake of
myself."—And so she did to a second,—no
clock or watch being near, but the watch
in my hand. For some weeks she could
always see the time, and foretell her own
waking ; but of late, in manifesting some
new capabilities, she has lost much of this.
Nothing can induce her to say a word
on a matter she is not perfectly sure of.
She solemnly shakes her head, saying, " I
won't guess: it won't do to guess." And
sometimes, appealingly, " I would tell you
if I could." "I'll try to see." "I'll do all I
can," &c. When sure of her point, noth-
ing can move her from her declarations.
Night after night, week after week, she
sticks to her decisions, strangely enough
sometimes, as it appears to us : but we are
not aware of her ever yet having been mis-
taken on any point on which she has de-
clared herself. We ascribe this to our
having carefully kept apart the waking and
sleeping ideas ; for it is rare to find som-
nambules whose declarations can be at all
confidently relied on. If any waking con-
sciousness is mixed up with their sleeping
faculties, they are apt to guess—to amuse
their fancy, and to say anything that they
think will best please their Mesmerist. J.'s
strict and uncompromising truthfulness
forms a striking contrast with the vagaries
of hackneyed, and otherwise mismanaged
somnambules.
It soon became evident that one ol her
strongest powers was the discernment of
disease, its condition and remedies. She
cleared up her own case first, prescribing
for herself very fluently. It was curious
to see, on her awaking, the deference and
obedience with which she received from
us the prescriptions with which she herself
had just furnished us. They succeeded
and so did similar efforts on my behalf. 1
cannot here detail the wonderful accuracy
with which she related, without any possi-
ble knowledge of my life ten and twenty
years ago, the circumstances of the origin
and progress of my ill-health, of the un-
availing use of medical treatment for five
years, and the operation of Mesmerism up-
on it of late. One little fact will serve our
present purpose better. Soon after she
was first mesmerized, I was undergoing
my final severance from opiates—a seri-
ous matter to one who had depended so
long and so desperately upon them. As I
have said, I got through the day pretty
well ; but the nights were intolerable, from
pain and nervous irritations, which made
it impossible to rest for two minutes to-
gether. After four such nights, I believe
my Mesmerist's fortitude and my own
would have given way together, and we
should have brought the laudanum bottle
to light again, but for the bright idea, "let
us ask J !" She said at once what my
sufferings had been, and declared that I
should sleep more and more by degrees, if
I took—(what was as contrary to her own
ordinary ideas of what is right and ration-
al as to mine)—ale at dinner, and half a
wine-glass full of brandy in water at night.
I refused the prescription till reminded
—
" Remember she has never been wrong."
I obeyed ; the fact being kept secret be-
tween us two, in order to try, every even-
ing, J.'s knowledge and opinion. She al-
ways spoke and advised, in a confident fa-
miliarity with incidents known only to us
two, and carried me steadily through the
struggle. I lost my miseries, and recov-
ered my sleep, night by night, till, at the
end of the week, I was quite well, without
stimulant or sedative. Nothing can be
more remote from J.'s ordinary knowledge
and thought than the structure of the hu-
man body, and the remedies for disease :
and, though I was well aware how com-
mon the exercise of this kind of insight is
in somnambules—how it is used abroad as
an auxiliary to medical treatment—I was
not the less surprised by the readiness and
peremptoriness with which a person, in
J.'s position, declared, and gave directions
about things which she is wholly ignorant
of an hour after, and was, during the whole
of her life before.
It is almost an established opinion among
some of the wisest students of Mesmer-
ism, that the mind of the somnambule mir-
rors that of the Mesmerist. Of course,
this explains nothing of the operation of
Mesmerism ; but it a supposition most im-
portant to be established or disproved.
One naturally wishes to find it true, as it
disposes of much that, with the hasty, pas-
ses for revelation of other unseen things
than those which lie in another person's
mind. It certainly is true to a considera-
12 MISS MARTIN EAUS
ble extent, as is pretty clearly proved \\ lien
an ignorant child—ignorant, especially of
the Bible—discourses of the Scriptures
and divinity when mesmerized by a cler-
gyman, and of the nebulae when mesmer-
ized by an astronomer ; but we have evi-
dence in J. that this is, though often, not
universally true. 1 will give an example
of each :
—
On Saturday, October 12, she had told
us that she now "saw the shades of things"
that she wanted to know, and that she
should " soon see clearer." The next
evening, she went into a great rapture
about the " gleams" becoming brighter, so
that she should soon see all she wished.
The light came through the brain,—not
like sunlight, nor moonlight; "No, there
is no light on earth like this :" the know-
ledge she got " comes astonishingly,—ama-
zingly,—so pleasantly!" "How is the
mesmerizing done which causes this V
"By all the powers at once." "What
powers V " The soul, and the mind, and
the vital powers of the body." Then, as
we inquired—" The mind is not the same
as the soul. All are required in mesmer-
izing, but the mind most, though Mesmer-
ism is still something else." " Those three
things exist in every human being, (the
soul, the mind, and the body,) separate
from one another ; but the faculties belong-
ing to them are not the same in everybody;
some have more, some less. The body
dies, and the mind dies with it; but the
soul lives after it. The soul is independ-
ent, and self-existent, and therefore lives
for ever. It depends upon nothing."
Here I prompted the question, "What,
then, is its relation to God"!" She hastily
replied, " He takes care of it, to reunite it
with the body at the day of judgment."
Here I way forcibly and painfully struck
with the incompatability of the former and
latter saying, not (as I hope it is needless
to explain), from any waiting on her lips
for revelations on this class of subjects,
but because it was painful to find her fac-
ulties working faultily. As I felt this dis-
appointment come over me, an expression
of trouble disturbed J.'s face, so ineffably
happy always during her sleep. " Stop,"
said she, " I am not sure about the last.
Ail I said before was true—the real mes-
meric truth. But I can't make out about
that last : 1 heard it when I was awake,
—
I heard it in church,—that all the particles
of our bodies, however they may be scat-
tered, will be gathered together at the day
of judgment ; but I am not sure." And
she became excited, saying that it " both-
ered her," what she knew and what she
had heard being mixed up. Her Mesmer-
ist dispersed that set of ideas, and she
was presently happy again, talking of the
" lights." This was the occasion on which
some traces remained in her waking state,
and she told a fellow-servant that she had
been dreaming and talking about the day
ofjudgment.
Now here her mind seemed to reflect
those of both her companions, (though I
was not aware of being en rapport with her).
Her Mesmerist had it in her mind that a
somnambule at Cheltenham had declared
man to consist of three elements; and J.'s
trouble at her own mingling of ideas from
two sources seems to have been an imme-
diate echo of mine. Such an incident as
this shows how watchful the reason should
be over such phenomena, and explains the
rise of many pretensions to inspiration. It
requires some self-control for the most
philosophical to look on a person of mod-
erate capabilities and confined education,
in the attitude of sleep, unaware of pass-
ing incidents, but speaking on high sub-
jects with an animated delight exceeding
anything witnessed in ordinary life ; —it re-
quires some coolness and command of self
to remember that what is said may be of
no authority as truth, however valuable as
manifestation.
On the next occasion, she uttered what
could not possibly be in the mind of any
one of the four persons present. The an-
ecdote is so inexplicable, that I should not
give it, but for my conviction that it is
right to relate the most striking facts that
come under my observation, positively de-
clining to theorize. My friend and I have
used every means of ascertaining the truth
in this instance ; and we cannot discover
any chink through which deception or mis-
take can have crept in, even if the som-
nambule had been a stranger, instead of
one whose integrity is well known to us.
The next evening, (Monday, October
14th,) J. did not come up as usual to our
seance. There was affliction in the house-
hold. An aunt of 4's, Mrs. A., a good
woman I have long known, lives in a cot-
tage at the bottom of our garden. Mrs.
A.'s son, J.'s cousin, was one of the crew
of a vessel which was this evening report-
ed to have been wrecked near Hull. This
was all that was known, except that the
owner was gone to Hull to see about it. J.
was about to walk to Shields with a com-
panion to inquire, but the night was so
tempestuous, and it was so evident that
no news could be obtained, that she was
persuaded not to go. But she was too
much disturbed to think of being mesmer-
ized. Next morning there was no news.
All day there were flying reports,—that
all hands were lost—that all were saved
—
but nothing like what afterwards proved
to be the truth. In the afternoon (no ti-
dings having arrived) we went for a long
drive, and took J. with us. She was with
us, in another direction, till tea-time; and
then, on our return, there were still no
tidings ; but Mrs. A. was gone to Shields to
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. 13
inquire, and if letters had come, she would
bring the news in the evening. J. went
out on an errand, while we were at tea,
—
no person in the place having then any
means of knowing about the wreck; and
on her return, she came straight up to us
for her stance. Two gentlemen were with
us that evening, one from America, the
other from the neighbourhood. I may say
here, that we note down at the moment
what J. says ; and that on this evening
there was the additional security of my
American friend repeating to me, on the
instant, (on account of my deafness,) every
word as it fell.
J. was presently asleep, and her Mes-
merist, knowing the advantage of introdu-
cing subjects on which the mind had pre-
viously been excited, and how the inspi-
ration follows the course of the affec-
tions, asked, as soon as the sleep was
deep enough,
"Can you tell us about the wreck?"
J. tranquilly replied,
" Oh ! yes, they're all safe ; but the ship
is all to pieces."
" Were they saved in their boat ?"
" No, that's all to pieces."
"How then
1
?"
"A queer boat took them off; not their
boat."
" Are you sure they are all safe ?"
" Yes ; all that were on board ; but there
was a boy killed. But I don't think it is
my cousin."
" At the time of the wreck?"
" No, before the storm."
" How did it happen?"
" By a fall."
" Down the hatchways, or how?"
" No, he fell through the rigging, from
the mast."
She presently observed, " My aunt is be-
low, telling them all about it, and I shall
hear it when I go down."
My rooms being a selection from two
houses, this "below" meant two stories
lower in the next house.
She continued talking of other things for
an hour longer, and before she awoke, the
gentlemen were gone. After inquiring
whether she was refreshed by her sleep,
and whether she had dreamed, ("No,")
we desired her to let us know if she heard
news of the wreck; and she promised, in
all simplicity, that she would. In another
quarter of an hour, up she came, all ani-
mation, to tell us that her cousin and all
the crew were safe, her aunt having re-
turned from Shields with the news. The
wreck had occurred between Elsinore and
Gottenberg, and the crew had been taken
off by a fishing-boat, after two days spent
on the wreck, their own boat having gone
to pieces. She was turning away to leave
the room, when she was asked,
—
" So all are saved—all who left the
port ?"
" No, ma'am,' said she, " all who were
on board at the time: but they had had an
accident before ; —a boy fell from the mast,
and was killed on the deck."
Besides having no doubt of the rectitude
of the girl, we knew that she had not seen
her aunt,—the only person from whom
tidings could have been obtained. But, to
make all sure, I made an errand to the
cottage the next morning, well knowing
that the relieved mother would pour out
her whole tale. My friend and I encour-
aged her ; and she told us how she got the
news, and when she brought it to Tyne-
mouth,—just as we knew before. " How
glad they must have been to see you '
at
ours' !" said I.
" yes, ma'am :" and she declared my
landlady's delight.
"And J.," said I.
"Ma'am, 1 did not see J.," said she,
simply and rapidly, in her eagerness to
tell. Then, presently,—" They told me,
ma'am, that J. was up stairs with you."
Two evenings afterwards, J. was ask-
ed, when in the sleep, whether she knew
what she related to us by seeing her aunt
telling the people below? to which she
replied, " No ; 1 saw the place and the peo-
ple themselves,—like a vision."
Such was her own idea, whatever may
be the conjectures of others.
14 MISS MARTINEAUS
LETTER IV.
Tynemouth, Nov. 24, 1844.
I have too little knowledge of Mesmer-
ism to be aware whether the more impor-
tant powers of somnambulism and clair-
voyance abide long in, or can be long ex-
ercised by, any individual. I have heard
of several cases where the lucidity was
lost after a rather short exercise ; but in
those cases there was room for a suppo-
sition of mismanagement. The tempta-
tion is strong to overwork a somnambule ;
and especially when the faculty of insight
relates to diseases, and sufferers are lan-
guishing on every side. The temptation
is also strong to prescribe the conditions,
—
to settle what the somnambule shall or
shall not see or do, in order to convince
oneself or somebody else, or to gratify
some desire for information on a particu-
lar subject. It is hard to say who was
most to blame with regard to Alexis,
—
the exhibitor who exposed him to the hard-
ship of unphilosophical requirements, or
the visitors who knew so little how to
conduct an inquiry into the powers of
Nature, as to prescribe what her manifes-
tations should be. The " failures," in such
cases, go for nothing, in the presence of
one new manifestation. They merely in-
dicate that there is no reply to impertinent
questions. The successes and failures to-
gether teach that the business of inquirers
is to wait upon Nature, to take what she
gives, and make the best they can of it,
and not disown her because they cannot
get from her what they have predeter-
mined. Strongly as I was impressed by
this, when reading about Alexis, from week
to week last spring, I still needed a lesson
myself,—a rebuke or two such as our som-
nambule has more than once given us here.
As soon as her power of indicating and
prescribing for disease was quite clear to
us, we were naturally anxious to obtain
replies to a few questions of practical im-
portance. We expressed, I hope, no im-
patience at the often repeated, " I'll try to
see : but I can't make it out yet." " I
shall not get a sight of that again till
Thursday." " It's all gone :
—it's all dark,
—and I shall see no more to-night." We
reminded each other of the beauty and
value of her truthfulness, from which she
could not be turned aside, by any pressure
of our eagerness. But one evening out
came an expression, which procured us a
reproof which will not be lost upon us.
She was very happy in the enjoyment of
some of her favourite objects, crying out
" Here come the lights! This is a beauti-
ful light ! It is the quiet, steady, silent
light !" And then she described other
kinds, and lastly one leaping up behind
the steady light, and shining like the rays
of the sun before the sun itself is visible.
When this rapture had gone on some time,
she was asked, " What is the use of these
lights, if they show us nothing of what we
want V In a tone of gentle remonstrance,
she said earnestly, "Ah!—but you must
have patience !"
And patience comes with experience.
We soon find that such extraordinary
things drop out when least expected, and
all attempts to govern or lead the results
and the power are so vain, that we learn
to wait, and be thankful for what comes.
The first desire of every witness is to
make out what the power of the Mesmerist
is, and how it acts. J. seems to wish to
discover these points ; and she also strug-
gles to convey what she knows upon them.
She frequently uses the act of mesmeri-
zing another person, as soon as the sleep
becomes deep; and if not deep enough to
please her, she mesmerizes herself, —using
manipulations which she can never have
witnessed. Being asked about the nature
of the best mesmeric efforts, she replied
that every power of body and mind is used,
more or less, in the operation ; but that
the main thing is to desire strongly the
effect to be produced. The patient should
do the same.
" People may be cured who do not be-
lieve in the influence ; but much more
easily if they do."
" What is the influence ?"
" It is something which the Mesmerizer
throws from him; but I cannot say what."
And this was all that evening; for she
observed, (truly) "It is a few minutes past
the half hour; but I'll just sleep a few
minutes longer."
" Shall I wake you then *"
"No, thank you; I'll wake myself."
And she woke up accordingly, in four min-
utes more. Another evening, " Do the
minds of the Mesmerist and the patient
become one V
" Sometimes, but not often."
" Is it then that they taste, feel, &c, the
same things at the same moment ?"
" Yes."
" Will our minds become one !"
" I think not."
" What are your chief powers ?"
" I like to look up, and see spiritual
things. I can see diseases : and I like to
see visions."
When asked repeatedly whether she
could read with her eyes shut, see things
behind her, &c, she has always replied
that she does not like that sort of thing
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. ir>
and will not do it: — she likes "higher
things." And when asked how she sees
them
—
" I see them, not like dreams in common
sleep,—but things out of other worlds ;
—
not the things themselves, but impressions
of them. They come through my brain."
" Mesmerism composes the mind, and
separates it from the common things of
every day."
" Will it hurt your Mesmerist ?"
" It is good for her. It exercises some
powers of body and mind, which would
otherwise lie dormant. It gives her mind
occupation, and leads her to search into
things."
" Can the mind hear otherwise than by
the ear."
" Not naturally ; but a deaf person can
hear the Mesmerist, when in the sleep ;
—
not any body else, however."
" How is it that you can see without
your eyes ?"
" Ah ! that is a curious thing. I have
not found it out yet."—Again, when she
said her time was up, but she would sleep
ten minutes longer.
" Shall I leave you, and mesmerize Miss
m.?"
" No : I should jump about and follow
you. I feel so queer when you go away
!
The influence goes all away. —It does so
when you talk with another."
"What is the influence?" &c. &c, as
before.
" I have seen a many places since I was
mesmerized ; but they all go away when
I wake. They are like a vision,—not a
common dream."
" How do you see these ? Does the
influence separate soul and body !"
" No : it sets the body to rest ; exalts
and elevates the thinking powers."
When marking, from her attitude and
expression of countenance, the eagerness
of her mind, and vividness of her feelings,
and when listening to the lively or solemn
tones of her voice, I have often longed
that she had a more copious vocabulary.
Much has probably been lost under the
words " queer," " beautiful," " something,"
"a thing," &c, which would have been
clearly conveyed by an educated person.
Yet some of her terms have surprised us,
from their unsuitableness to her ordinary
language ; and particularly her understand-
ing and use of some few, now almost ap-
propriated by Mesmerism. On one of the
earliest days of her sleep, before we had
learned her mesmeric powers and habits,
she was asked one evening, after a good
deal of questioning.
" Does it tire you to be asked questions !
"No."
" Will it spoil your lucidity?"
m No."—Whereat I made a dumb sign
to ask her what " lucidity" meant.
" Brightness," she instantly answered.
In the course of the day, her Mesmerist
asked her carelessly, as if for present con-
venience, if she could tell her the meaning
of the word "lucidity."
J. looked surprised, and said, " I am sure,
ma'am, I don't know. I don't think I ever
heard the word."
When asleep the next day, she was again
asked,
" Does it hurt your lucidity to be asked
many questions'!"
" When not very deep in sleep, it does.
T'
" What is lucidity I"
" Brightness, clearness, light shining
through. I told you that yesterday."
" Have you looked for the word since
1
?"
" No : and I shall not know it when I
am awake."
Though usually disdaining to try to read
with the eyes shut, &c, she has twice writ-
ten when desired,—(complaining, when her
eyes were fast shut, and her chair was al-
most in the dark, that she could not see
well, meaning that there was too much
light,) and once she drew a church and a
ship, about as well as she might have done
it with open eyes. She drew the ship in
separate parts, saying that she would put
them together afterwards.
In this latter case, her eyes were ban-
daged, as she complained it was so light
she could not see : and then she complain-
ed that the pencil given her would not
mark, and tried to pull out the lead further,
not being satisfied till her strokes were
distinct.
The only time, I think, that she has
spoken of her own accord was one even-
ing when she burst into a long story of a
woman who lived inTynemouth200 years
ago, who made " cataplasms" for the feet
of a lame monk, and cured him ; for which
act he requited her by denouncing her as
a witch, and getting her ducked in the sea,
and otherwise ill-used.
" Now," said she, to her Mesmerist, " this
is the way they would have treated you
then ; and maybe burnt you : but they
know better now."
She explained that she once read this
in a book, " and just thought of it." At
another time, she informed us that people
now think bad things of Mesmerism ; but
they will understand it better, and find
what a blessing it is.
When apologizing for continuing to sleep
when she knew her appointed time was
up, she declared,
" I am so comfortable and so happy, I
thought I would sleep five or ten minutes
longer ; but it is supper time ; and I have
to go to the shop over the way. I should
frighten people if I burst into the street
(laughing) with my eyes shut. So I'll
wake now."
" First, tell us if your speaking of other
16 MISS MARTINEAU'S
things will prevent your telling us of dis-
eases."
" No : it is just as it comes ; —they will
all come round again."—She awoke di-
rectly.
Nothing is more obscure in our experi-
ment with J., and, I believe, in most mes-
meric cases, than the extent and character
of the rapport, on which so much depends.
At first, J. certainly heard and knew no-
thing of what was going on but from her
Mesmerist, unless expressly put en rapporL
with another by the Mesmerist joining
their hands. But, on scattered occasions
afterwards, she heard sounds to which she
was insensible in an earlier stage. A Ger-
man piano, playing in the garden, just un-
der the window, was unheard by her, on
one of the early days of her somnambu-
lism; while lately, some music in the next
house yet her suddenly to work to imitate
all the instruments of an orchestra, and
finally the bagpipes, which she imitates
con amorc whenever she is in a merry
mood. The same music carried her in
fancy into a ball room ; and we were fa-
voured with the whole detail of who was
ihere, and with seeing at least, her dancing.
On another occasion, she was disturbed
a^nd annoyed by a slight noise over head,
saying that it thundered, and then that the
house was coming down. What is more
remarkable,—I have observed, of late, the
influence of my own mind over her, while
no rapport is purposely established be-
tween us, and she certainly hears nothing
of what 1 say. Not only has she said
things apropos to what I am silently think-
ing ; but, for a succession of evenings,
she awoke suddenly, and in the midst of
eager talk, or of deep sleep with her eyes
closed,—1 being behind her chair,—on my
pointing to the watch, or merely thinking
determiuately that it was time she was
awake. As for her being awakened by
the silent will of her Mesmerist, that is an
experience so common, an effect so inva-
riable, that we hardly think of recording
it ; but that she should ever, however ir-
regularly, wake, for a succession of even-
ings, at the will of one not consciously en
rapport with her, seems worthy of note, as
unusual in mesmeric experiments.
Another incident is note-worthy in this
connexion. A gentleman was here one
evening, who was invited in all good faith,
on his declaration that he had read all that
had been written on Mesmerism, knew all
about it, and was philosophically curious
to witness the phenomena. He is the
only witness we have had who abused
the privilege. I was rather surprised to
see how, being put in communication with
J., he wrenched her arm, and employed
usage which would have been cruelly
rough in her ordinary state ; but I sap-
posed it was because he " knew all about
it," and found that she was insonsible to
his rudeness; and her insensibility was so
obvious, that I hardly regretted it. At
length, however, it became clear that his
sole idea was (that which is the sole idea
of so many who cannot conceive of what
they cannot explain,) of detecting sham-
ming ; and, in pursuance of this aim, this
gentleman, who "knew all about it," vio-
lated the first rule of mesmeric practice,
by suddenly and violently seizing the sleep-
er's arm. without the intervention of the
Mesmerist. J. was convulsed and writhed
in her chair. At that moment, and while
supposing himself en rapport with her, he
shouted out to me that the house was on
fire. Happily, this brutal assault on her
nerves failed entirely. There was cer-
tainly nothing congenial in the rapport.
She made no attempt to rise from her
seat, and said nothing,—clearly heard no-
thing; and when asked what had fright-
ened her, said something cold had got
hold of her. Cold indeed ! and very hard
too!
One singular evidence of rapport be-
tween J. and her Mesmerist I have wit-
nessed under such unexceptionable cir-
cumstances as to be absolutely sure of it.
When J. was dancing, and taking this room
for a ball-room, she took her Mesmerist
for her partner, allowed herself to be con-
ducted to a seat, &c, assuming a ball-room
air, which was amusing enough in one
with her eyes sealed up, as motionless as
if they were never again to open. Being
offered refreshment, she chose some mes-
merized water, a glass of which was on
the table, prepared for me. It seemed to
exhilarate her, and she expressed great
relish of the " refreshment." It struck
us that we would try, another evening,
whether her Mesmerist's will could affect
her sense of taste. In her absence, we
agreed that the water should be silently
willed to be sherry the next night. To
make the experiment as clear as possible,
the water was first offered to her, and a
little of it drank as water. Then the rest
was, while still in her hands, silently willed
to be sherry; she drank it off,—half a
tumbler full—declared it very good ; but,
presently, that it made her tipsy. What
was it ? " Wine—white wine." And she
became exceedingly merry and voluble,
but refused to rise from her chair, or dance
any more, or go down stairs, for she could
not walk steady, and should fall and spoil
her face, and moreover frighten them all
below. I afterwards asked her Mesmerist
to let it be porter the next night. J. knew
nothing of porter, it seems, but called her
refreshment " a nasty sort of beer." Of
late she has ceased to know and tell the
time,—"can't see the clock-face,"' as she
declares. The greatest aptitude at present
seems to be for being affected by metals
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. 17
and for the singular muscular rigidity pro-
ducible in the mesmeric sleep.
When her arms or hands are locked in
this rigidity, no force used by any gentle-
man who has seen the case can separate
them; and in her waking state she has
certainly no such muscular force as could
resist what has been ineffectually used in
her sleeping state. The rigid limbs then
appear like logs of wood, which might be
broken, but not bent; but a breath from
her Mesmerist on what is called by some
phrenologists the muscular organ, causes
the muscles to relax, the fingers to unclose,
and the limbs to fall into the attitude of
sleep. During these changes, the placid
sleeping face seems not to belong to the
owner of the distorted and rigid limbs, till
these last slide into their natural positions,
and restore the apparent harmony.
Not less curious is it to see her inextri-
cable gripe of the steel snuffers, or the
poker, detached by a silent touch of the
steel with gold. When no force can
wrench or draw the snuffers from her
grasp, a gold pencil-case or a sovereign
stealthily made to touch the point of the
snuffers, causes the fingers to unclasp, and
the hands to fall. We have often put a
gold watch into her hands, and, when the
gripe is firm, her mermerist winds the gold
chain round something of steel. In a min-
ute or less occurs the relaxation of the
fingers, and the watch is dropped into the
hand held beneath. While grasping these
metals she sometimes complains that they
have burnt her.
She is now also becoming subject to the
numbness, the kind of insensibility which
has already been proved such a blessing
to sufferers under severe pain, whether of
surgical operations or disease. It seems
as if she were going the whole round of
phenomena. Where it will end time must
show ; meanwhile, we have the pleasure
of seeing her in continually improving
health, and so sensible of the blessing as
to be anxious to impart the knowledge
and experience of it to others.
I have said nothing of Phrenology in
connexion with Mesmerism, though it is
thought by those who understand both bet-
ter than I do, that they are hardly separa-
ble. I have no other reason for speaking
of Mesmerism by itself than that I am not
qualified to give any facts or opinions on
phrenological phenomena induced by Mes-
merism.
The only fact I have witnessed (proba-
bly because we do not know how to look
for evidence) in the course of our ex-
periment was amusing enough, but too
isolated to base any statement on. J.
appeared one day to be thrown into a
paroxysm of order, when that organ was
the part mesmerized. She was almost ir
a frenzy of trouble that she could not
make two pocket-handkerchiefs lie flat
and measure the same size ; and the pas-
sion with which she arranged everything
that lay a-wry was such as is certainly
never seen in any waking person. This
fit of order was curious and striking as far
as it went ; and this is all I am at present
qualified to say.
We note that J. can tell nothing con-
cerning any stranger ; and that her insight
appears clear in proportion as her affec-
tions are interested. We have tried her
clairvoyance, by agreement with friends
at a distance, strangers to her. and have
failed, as we deserved. I hope we shall
have the wisdom and self-command hence-
forth to prescribe nothing to a power so
obscure, and, at present, beyond our dicta-
tion. We can summon and dismiss it, and
may therefore contemplate it without fear.
But we have no power over the nature of
its manifestations. Our business, there-
fore, is humbly and patiently to wait for
them ; and, when obtained, diligently to
use our reason in the study of them.
18 MISS MARTINEAU'S
LETTER V.
Tynemouth, Nov. 23, 1844.
I have related the two cases which are
absolutely known to me; and I shall refer
to no more. If a few of the many who
are now enjoying the results of mesmer-
ic treatment would plainly relate exactly
what they have felt and seen, putting aside
all personal repugnance, and despising all
imputations of egotism, &c, there would
presently be more temper and more wis-
dom in the reception of the subject by
many who have no knowledge upon it.
What should be the mind and temper of
those who know the truth of Mesmerism,
and of those who do not? These two
classes appear to me to comprehend all:
for I am not aware that any competent per-
son has ever studied the facts without ad-
mitting their truth, under one name or ano-
ther.
The celebrated French Commission of
1784, so much vaunted as the finishing foe
of Mesmerism, till the Report of a second
Commission, in 1831, advocated it, admit-
ted the facts ; denying only the theory with
which they were saddled. No objections
that I have heard or read of, go to touch
the facts,—that a large variety of diseases
have been cured by mesmeric treatment,
—infirmities ameliorated or removed.
—
surgical operations rendered painless,
—
and a sympathy induced between two or
more persons resembling no other relation
known : —that a state of somnambulism is,
in many patients, producible at pleasure,
in which the mind is capable of operations
impossible (as far as we know) in any other
conditions ; and that this state of somnam-
bulism is usually favourable to the remo-
val of disease, while no pernicious effects
are traceable, under the ordinary prudence
used in administering all the powers of na-
ture. These facts, I believe, are denied
by none who have really investigated them.
The denial met with from those who
have witnessed no course of mesmeric
facts needs no notice. Opinion cannot
exist where the materials are wanting.
Those who have gathered no such materi-
als may believe, on adequate testimony
;
but they are not competent to deny. The
only ground on which such denial could be
pretended,—natural impossibility, —clear
contradiction to the ascertained laws of
nature,—does not exist in regard to the dis-
covery of a hidden power of nature. The
only deniers who can claim attention, are
those who have looked into Mesmerism
through a range of facts.
And these deny, not the facts which are
the basis of the pretensions of Mesmerism,
but everything else. They see imposture
(though much less than they suppose), and
they very properly denounce and expose
it.—They see failures, and laugh or are
indignant, forgetting that a thousand fail-
ures do not in the least affect the evidence
of one success in the use of a power not
otherwise attainable. Putting aside all acts
of pretended prevision and insight which
could come within the range of chance, one
act of prevision or insight stands good
against any number of failures. The de-
niers see performances got up by itinerant
Mesmerists—shows to which people are
admitted for money; and they naturally
express disgust; but this disgust applies
not to Mesmerism, but to its abuse by the
mercenary. They see manifestations, bo-
dily and mental, which exceed all their
experience and preconceptions of human
powers and methods,—and even contradict
them ; for few of us are aware how human
experience and preconception are perpetu-
ally awaiting correction and amendment
from the future : —they deny the cause and
the means of such manifestations,—resort
to extravagant suppositions of tortured per-
sons assuming, against all inducements, an
appearance of ease and enjoyment,—of
honest people becoming sudden knaves,
against reason, conscience, and interest ;
—
of ignorant people being possessed of pre-
ternatural hidden knowledge ; —of scores
and hundreds of children taken from the
street, of simple and ignorant men and wo-
men in quiet homes, being all, invariably
and without concert, found capable of such
consummate acting, command of frame and
countenance, and such fidelity to nature as
were never equalled on the stage. They
see the sick and suffering risen from the
depths of disease, and enjoying health and
vigour ; and when it is not possible to deny
the disease or the recovery (which, how-
ever, is attempted to the last moment) they
give an old name to the agency,—call it
Will or Imagination, and suppose they have
denied Mesmerism. And so, when they
see the lame walk, and the deaf hear, they
talk of " predisposing causes," " efforts of
Nature," and consider the matter disposed
of. Extravagant theorists there are indeed
connected, in more ways than one, with
Mesmerism ; it is a fault common on every
hand; but assuredly the wildest theorists
of all are they who assume many moral
impossibilities in order to evade a fact be-
fore their eyes. Of the infinite ingenuity
of denial all have enjoyed displays who
like me, have been raised up by Mesmer-
ism. We all hear, from one side or anoth-
er, that we were getting well a year ago,
and would not exert ourselves;—that long-
tried medicines began to act weeks or
months after they were discontinued ; that
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. 19
our diseases went away of themselves
;
that we are mistaken in believing ourselves
well now ; that it is not Mesmerism, but
Will in the Mesmerist, and Imagination in
ourselves, that has given us health. It is
easy enough, if it were worth while, to an-
swer these,—to bring evidence that we
were ill at such a date, and show that we
are well now ; —to ask whether it is prob-
able that in twenty or fifty cases of deep
and hopeless disease, there should be " an
effort of Nature," apart from Mesmerism,
at the very moment that Mesmerism is
tried, and to ask what "an effort of Na-
ture" means ; to point out that if Will and
Imagination can really make the deaf and
dumb hear and speak, disperse dropsies,
banish fever, asthma, and paralysis, absorb
tumours, and cause the severance of nerve,
bone, and muscle to be unfelt, we need not
quarrel about words :
—let these blessed re-
sults be referred to any terms you please :
only, in that case, some new name must
be found for the old understood functions
of the Imagination and the Will.
Denial thus reaching onjy the means,
and not the facts, it seems time for those
who really pretend to a desire to know to
consider what they must do next. Are
they prepared with Newton's method,—to
sit down patiently before the great sub-
ject, watching and waiting for knowledge
to arise and come forth ! Are they prac-
tised in the golden rule of inquiry, not to
wish truth to be on the one side or the
other ? Is their temper as serious as is re-
quired by an occasion so solemn,—by an
inquiry whether human beings have, in re-
gard to each other, a health-giving, a life-
reviving power, a stupendous power of vo-
lition,—a power of exciting faculties of
prescience and insight, and some others
too awful to be lightly named 1 O ! when
one considers the scope of this inquiry, the
solemnity of the question, whether true
or false, the laugh of the ignorant, the lev-
ity of the careless, the scorn of the preju-
diced, the hardness and perversity of the
intellectually proud, sound in one's ears
like the babble and false mirth of a mad-
house ! While we look back to Laplace
receiving all pertaining testimony from all
time, and declaring to Chenevix that " ap-
plying to Mesmerism his own principles
and formulas respecting human evidence,
he could not withhold his assent to what
was so strongly supported," we can but
contrast with his the spirit and method of
modern doctors, who undertake to pre-
scribe the conditions of the phenomena of
this mysterious power on the first occasion
of their attendance on it ; and if their pre-
cious conditions are declined, or unfulfil-
led, denounce the whole as imposture or
nonsense. Where Newton would have
humbly watched the manifestations of Na-
ture, and Laplace philosophically weighed
the testimony of men, our modern inqui-
rers instruct Nature what she shall do to
obtain their suffrage ; and, Nature, not
deigning to respond, they abide by their
own negative ignorance, rather than the
positive testimony of history and a living
multitude. Cuvier speaks on Mesmerism :
and who has more title to be listened to
!
He says, " Cependant les effets obtenus sur
des personnesdejasansconnaissance avant
que l'operation commencat, ceux que ont
lieu sur les autres personnes apres que
l'operation meme leur a fait perdre con-
naissance, et ceux que presentent les ani-
maux, ne permettent gueres de douter que
la proximite de deux corps animes dans
certaines positions et avec certain mouve-
ments, n'ait un effet reel, independant de
toute participation de l'imagination d'une
des deux. II paroit assez clairement aussi
que ces effets sont dus a une communica-
tion quelconque qui s'etablit entre leurs
systemes nerveux." (Anatomie Compa-
ree, torn. II. p. 117. " Du systeme nerv-
eux considere en action.") Contrast with
Cuvier examining, inferring, and avowing,
our London philosophers asking for a sign,
exulting if none be vouchsafed, and if one
be given, unable to see it through the blan-
ket of their scepticism. One thing such in-
quirers have made plain to persons a de-
gree wiser than themselves. Children and
other superficial thinkers are puzzled at a
few passages in the gospels about belief;
passages which seem to them, if they dared
say so, contrary to all sense and reason
:
those passages which tell that no sign was
given, few mighty works were done, be-
cause of the unbelief of the people. To the
inexperienced, this appears precisely the
reason why more signs and wonders should
be given. But another passage conveys
the reason :
" Having eyes they see not,
having ears they hear not, neither do they
understand," &c. It is a deep philosophi-
cal truth, implied in these words, and es-
tablished afresh during every process of
great natural discovery, that simple faith
is as necessary to the perception and re-
ception of truth as sound reason ; that in-
tellectual pride and prejudice is as fatal to
the acquisition of true knowledge as blind
credulity. The very senses become false
informers, the very faculties traitors, when
the intellect has lost its rectitude of humil-
ity, patience, and loyalty to truth. The
signs and wonders of science, like those
of the great Teacher, are absolutely lost
upon the insolent and sceptical,—the Phar-
isees and Sadducees of every place and
age,—and should never be yielded to their
requisition. They can avail at all only to
the teachable ; and they can avail fully
only to those who believed before.
The true spirit in which inquirers should
approach the experiments of Mesmerism
is suggested by Laplace's words in relation
20 MISS MARTINEAU'S
to our subject, in his Essay on Probabili-
ties, " Nous sommes si loin de connaitre
tous les agens de la Nature, et leurs divers
modes d'action, qu'il serait pen philoso-
phique de nier lcs phenomenes, unique-
ment parcequ'ils sont inexplicable dans
l'etat actuel de nos connaissauces."
There being nothing palpably absurd on
the face of the subject,—only strange, un-
thought-of, and overwhelming to minds
unaccustomed to the great ideas of Nature
and Philosophy, the claims of Mesmerism
to a calm and philosophical investigation
are imperative. No philosopher can gain-
say this; and if I were to speak as a mor-
alist on the responsibility of the savans of
society to the multitude—if I were to un-
veil the scenes which are going forward
in every town in England from the wan-
ton, sportive, curious, or mischievous use
of this awful agency by the ignorant, we
should hear no more levity in high places
about Mesmerism,—no more wrangling
about the old or new names by which the
influence is to be called, while the influ-
ence itself is so popularly used with such
fearful recklessness.
Let the savans really inquire, and com-
bine to do so. Experiment is here, of
course, the only means of knowledge. In-
stead of objecting to this, that, and the
other theory, (all, probably, being objec-
tionable enough,) let all thought of theory
be put away till at least some store of va-
ried facts is obtained under personal ob-
servation. Few individuals have the leis-
ure, and the command of Mesmerists and
patients necessary for a sound set of ex-
periments. Though some see reason to
believe that every human being has the
power of exciting, and the susceptibility
of receiving, mesmeric influence, and thus
a course of experiments might seem easy
enough, it is not so, any more than it is
easy for us all to ascertain the composition
of the atmosphere, because the air is all
about us. Many and protracted conditions
are necessary to a full and fair experi-
ment, though brief and casual feats suffice
to prove that " there is something in Mes-
merism." Under the guidance of those
who best understand the conditions,—the
brave pioneers in this vast re-discovery,
—
let the process be begun, and let it be car-
ried on till it is ascertained whether a sound
theory can or cannot be obtained. To ask
for such a theory in the first place is an
absurdity which could hardly be credited
but for its commonness. "Tell me what
Mesmerism is first, and next what it pre-
tends to, and then I will attend to it," has
been said to me, and is said to many others
who, declaring Mesmerism to be true, have
no theory as to its nature,—no conjecture
as to the scope of its operations. Some
ask this in ignorance, others as an evasion.
"Wise inquirers will not ask it at all till a
vast preparatory work is achieved, which
it is both unphilosophical and immoral to
neglect. There are hospitals among us,
where it may be ascertained whether in-
sensibility to extreme pain can be produ-
ced. There are sufferers in every one's
neighbourhood, whose capability of re-
covery by Mesmerism may be tested. And
in the course of such benevolent experi-
ments the ulterior phenomena of Mesmer-
ism will doubtless occur, if they exist as
commonly as is pretended. Let experi-
ence, carefully*obtained, be wisely collect-
ed and philosophically communicated. If
found untrue, Mesmerism may then be
" exploded,"—which it can never be by
mere ignorant scorn and levity. If true,
the world will be so much the better. When
we consider that no physician in Europe
above forty years of age when Harvey
lived believed in the circulation of the
blood, we shall not look for any philoso-
phical inquiry into Mesmerism from estab-
lished members of the profession, whose
business it is to attend to it ; but happily,
the young never fail. There is always a
new generation rising up to emancipate the
world from the prejudices of the last,
(while originating new ones) ; and there
are always a few disinterested, intrepid,
contemplative spirits, cultivating the calm
wisdom and bringing up the established
convictions of the olden time, as material
for the enthusiasm of the new, who may
be relied on for maintaining the truth till
they joyfully find that it has become too
expansive for their keeping. The truth in
question is safe, whether it be called Mes-
merism, or by another and a better name.
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. 21
LETTER VI.
Tynemouth, Nov. 26, 1844.
[
It may seem presumptuous in me to say j
anything about what the temper and con-
duct of believers in Mesmerism should be,
—so many of them as were bravely and
benevolently enduring opposition and in-
jury, while I was quietly lying by, out of
sight, and unqualified to join them, though
steadily sympathizing with them. But my
very position may perhaps enable me to
see some considerations long left behind
by the more advanced Mesmerists, and to
indicate them for the benefit of novices,
whose experience has not yet led them up
to my point of view. Besides, I have now
a very vivid experience of my own. While
sympathy in my release from pain and my
recovered enjoyment of life flows in abun-
dantly, I still have cause to feel, as num-
bers have felt before me, that no one can
sustain a mesmeric cure with entire impu-
nity. When I think of the insults inflicted
on many sufferers, of the innocent and
truthful beings who, after long disease and
the deprivation of a limb, have in addition
to bear the cruel imputation of being liars
and cheats because they could not say they
had suffered the pains of amputation, I feel
as if I, and such as I, must be for ever
dumb about such disbelief and misrepre-
sentation as, for our small share, we meet
with. But, without saying a word on that
head, such experience may enable one to
perceive and allege the things in the con-
duct of the disciples of Mesmerism, which
act unfavourably on their cause. There
never was a great cause yet which did not
suffer by some or other of its friends ; and
while men are imperfect and frail, thus it
will ever be. And again, there never were
faithful asserters of a great truth, who were
not glad to hear what are the difficulties
and objections of those without,-who were
not willing to listen to the representations
of the most superficial of novices,—who,
with nothing to say but what to them is
trite, may yet revive a sense of the obsta-
cles which beset the entrance of the sub-
ject.
I believe there is no doubt that the great-
est of all injuries done to Mesmerism is by
its itinerant advocates. This appears to
be admitted by every body but the itiner-
ants themselves; and none lament the
practice so deeply as the higher order of
Mesmerists. Among the itinerants there
are doubtless some honest men, as entire-
ly convinced of the truth of what they
teach and exhibit as the physician who re-
fuses fees in mesmeric cases, and the
brethren and sisters of charity who sacri-
fice everything to do good by their know-
ledge and power in Mesmerism. But no
man of enlarged views, of knowledge at
all adequate to the power he wields, would
venture upon the perilous rashness of ma-
king a public exhibition of the solemn won-
ders yet so new and impressive, of play-
ing upon the brain and nerves of human
beings, exhibiting for money on a stage
states of mind and soul held too sacred in
olden times to be elicited elsewhere than
in temples, by the hands of the priests of
the gods. This sacredness still pertains to
these mysterious manifestations, as indi-
cating secrets of human nature of which
we have only fitful glimpses. It is true,
the blame of their desecration rests with
the learned men who ought to have shown
themselves wise in relation to a matter so
serious, and to have taken the investiga-
tion into their own hands. It is they who
are answerable for having turned over the
subject to the fanatical and the vulgar. It is
they who have cast this jewel of know-
ledge and power into the lap of the igno-
rant ; and no one can wonder that it is
bartered for money and notoriety. The
spectacle is a disgusting and a terrible one,
—disgusting as making a stimulating pub-
lic show of what cannot be witnessed in
the quietest privacy without emotions of
awe, and the strongest disposition to re-
serve ; —and, terrible as making common
and unclean that which at least at present,
is sanctified by mystery, by complete un-
fitness for general use. It is urged that
public exhibitions of mesmeric phenomena
attract much attention to the subject, and
cause many to become ultimately convin-
ced, who might otherwise have had no
knowledge of the matter. This may be
true ; but what an amount of mischief is
there to set off against this! There is
much more wonder, doubt, and disgust
caused than conviction ; and the sort of con-
viction so originated could, on the whole,
be very well dispensed with. And there
remains behind the social calamity of a
promiscuous use of the ulterior powers of
Mesmerism. When a general audience
see the thing treated as a curious show on
a stage, what wonder that the ignorant go
home and make a curious show of it there
!
While the wise, in whose hands this pow-
er should be, as the priesthood to whom
scientific mysteries are consigned by Prov-
idence, scornfully decline their high func-
tion, who are they that snatch at it, in sport
or mischief,—and always in ignorance 1
School children, apprentices, thoughtless
women who mean no harm, and base men
who do mean harm. Wherever itinerant
Mesmerists have been are there such as
these, throwing each other into trances,
trying funny experiments, getting fortune
miss martini; A is
told, or rashly treating diseases. It would
be something gained if the honest among
these lecturers could be taught and con-
vinced that they had better be quiet, and
let the matter alone, rather than propagate
Mesmerism by such a method. If they
have not the means of advocating Mesmer-
ism without taking money for it, they had
better earn their bread in another way, and
be satisfied with giving their testimony and
using their powers, (as far as their know-
ledge goes, and no further) gratuitously at
home.
The duty of those who understand the se-
riousness of Mesmerism is, clearly to dis-
countenance and protest against all such
exhibitions, to discountenance all who ori-
ginate, and all who attend them, as false to
the truth sought, through incompetence or
worse.
The very best of the mesmeric brother-
hood are liable to fall into one ever-open
snare. Everybody interested in a great
discovery is under a strong temptation to
theorize too soon ; and those who oppose
or do not understand Mesmerism are for
ever trying to get us to theorize prema-
turely. From the first day that my ex-
periment was divulged to the present, the
attempt has been renewed, till the appli-
cation to me to announce a theory has be-
come so ludicrously common, that I am in
no danger of falling into the trap. I have
had, not only to refuse to propose even a
hypothesis, but to guard my language so
carefully as that, by no pretence of an in-
ference could any be ascribed to me. I
could wish that all who, like myself, know
personally but a few facts, (however clear)
were as careful about this as the occasion
requires. Their notions of a transmission
of a fluid, electric or other;—of a condi-
tional excitement in human beings of a
power of control or stimulus of their own
vital functions ;
—of the mesmeric power
residing in the Will of the Mesmerist, or
in the Imagination or Will of the patient;
of some sympathetic function, express but
obscure, and assigned to some unexplored
region of the brain,—these notions, and
many more, may each suit the phenomena
which have come under the notice of the
expounders ; but no one of them will hold
good with all the facts that are established.
The phenomena are so various, that it
seems to me most improbable that we can
yet be near the true theory ; to say noth-
ing of what is very obvious—that the sup-
positions offered are little but words. It
would be time enough to show this, if the
hypothesis would fit; but they do not.
What becomes of the transmission of fluid
when the Mesmerist acts, without concert,
on a patient a hundred miles off? What
becomes of the patient's power of Imagi-
nation when he is mesmerized uncon-
sciously? and of the operator's power
of Will when the Mesmerisi is uninform-
ed and obedient, acting in the dark, under
the directions of the patient ? and so on,
through the whole array of theories. Now,
it happens every day, that when objectors
overthrow an offered theory, they are held
by themselves, and everybody else but the
really philosophical, to have overthrown
the subject to which it relates. Thus is
Mesmerism perpetually, as people say,
overthrown ; and though it is sure to be
soon found standing, as it was before, on
its basis of facts, and daily strengthened
by new facts, yet it is obscured for the mo-
ment by every passing fog of false reason-
ing that is allowed to envelope it.
Much mischief is done by a rash and
hasty zeal in undertaking cases of sick-
ness or infirmity. Some of the most ear-
nest believers, anxious to afford proof to
others, lay their hands on sick or well with-
out duly considering whether they have
health and power of body and mind, com-
mand of time, patience and means, and of
such knowledge as will obviate hesitation
and flagging, and consequent failure in the
treatment. This is far too light a use to
be made of a power sacred to higher pur-
poses than those of curiosity or mere as-
sertion. And there cannot be too serious
a preparation for its purer and higher use
in the cure of disease. Ill-qualified agents
are not permitted to administer any other
geat natural power ; and why should we
permit ourselves to administer this influ-
ence—to undertake to infuse health, to feed
the vital principle, accepting any manifes-
tations that may occur by the way, unless
we know ourselves to be so strong in body
and mind, so free from infirmity, so able to
command leisure, as that we may reason-
ably hope that the fountain of our influence
will not intermit 1 Persuasives to courage
are little needed, for the sight of suffering
inspires believers in Mesmerism with an
almost irresistible desire to relieve the
sick. There is abundance of benevolent
impulse. What we want to make sure of
is, calm foresight in undertaking serious
cases, and strenuousness of patience in
carrying them on ; and moreover, a steady
refusal to lay hands on sick or well for
purposes of amusement, or victory over
unbelievers. These conditions being se-
cured, I believe Mesmerism to be invaria-
bly favourable in its operation, where it
acts at all. I never heard of any harm
being done by it, where as much prudence
was employed as we apply in the use of
fire, water, and food.
I will say little on one head, of which
much is said to me—the tendency of the
early holders of any discovery, or re-dis-
covery, to overrate its influence on human
affairs. The tendency is natural and com-
mon enough ;
and time alone can prove
whether there is folly in the believers in
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. 23
Mesmerism being so excited and engrossed I
as they are by what they see and learn.
I am in too early a stage of the investiga-
tion to be able to say anything that ought
to be of weight on this head. I can only
declare, while knowing myself to be in as
calm, quiet, and serious a state of nerves
and mind as I am capable of being, that I
think it a mistake to say that Mesmerism
will become merely one among a thousand
curative means, and that it will not pro-
duce any practical changes in the mutual
relations of human beings. From what I
have witnessed of the power of mind over
body, and of mind over mind, and from what
I have experienced of the exercise of the
inner faculties under the operation of Mes-
merism, I am persuaded that immense and
inestimable changes wiil take place in the
scope and destiny of the individual human
being on earth, and in the relations of all.
If it were proposed as an abstract ques-
tion, every one would admit that the hu-
man lot on earth might and must be incal-
culably altered by the bestowment on hu-
man beings of a new faculty, and also by
such an exaltation of any existing faculty
as must entirely change its scope and oper-
ation. The case is the same, if any oc-
cult inherent faculty becomes reachable
—
educible ; and there are not a few subjects
of Mesmerism who know that either this
is the case, or that an existing faculty is
exalted above their own recognition. Of
those, 1 am one. We do not expect cre-
dence when we say this ; for, by the very
conditions of the experience, it is incom-
municable. It is no help to the communi-
cation to be met by the strongest faith and
sympathy; for the very means of commu-
nication are absent. The language which
might convey it does not exist ; and the
effort to explain ourselves is as useless
and hopeless as for the born blind and deaf
to impart to each other an experience of
sounds and colours. Let me add, that it
would be as reasonable for these blind and
deaf to question each others' wits as for
any who haye never been mesmerized to
doubt the sanity of those who come, calm
and healthful, out of an experience of its
ulterior states. My own conviction is,
that when that region is purely attained,
it is, and ever will be, found clear of all
absurdities, delusions, and perturbations,
where the faculties may enjoy their high-
est health and exercise. I make this avow-
al of what can never be substantiated in
my favour for a practical object—that some
one or more may be led to reflect on the
origin of claims to divine inspiration, such
as have, through all time, arisen in the
world If any one thoughtful mind is led
on to a better solution than the universal
suppositions of madness and imposture,
there is so much the more hope that pre-
tensions to divine inspiration will be trans-
muted into something more true, and that
much madness and imposture hitherto con-
sequent on such pretensions may die out.
I care nothing for any precipitate conclu-
sions of the unaccustomed to such re-
searches, in regard to my own wits, if I
can lead one informed and philosophical
intellect to consider afresh how little we
yet comprehend of the words we are so
often repeating—" We are fearfully and
wonderfully made."
From a point of contemplation like this,
can it be needful to glance aside at our
danger of bearing ourselves unworthily
amidst the irritations of opposition and
scorn that we have to encounter! It is
most needful to do more than glance at this
danger—to regard it steadily. If we firm-
ly hold our convictions, we cannot at all
times maintain, without an effort the high
ground on which they place us. It is new
and painful to us to have our statements
discredited to our faces—our understand-
ings despised—some of our deepest sen-
timents and most solemnly-acquired know-
ledge made a jest of. Perhaps it is more
painful still to find the facts for which we
are the authorities twisted and misrepre-
sented, instead of denied, and one of the
most serious subjects that ever has occu-
pied, or can occupy, the attention of man-
kind treated with a levity which, though we
know it to be mere ignorance, is to us pro-
faneness. I say, "we" in this connexion,
though I have met with less than my fair
proportion of this kind of trial, owing to
previous circumstances, which have no
connexion with my present testimony. I
say " we" because I wish to cast in my
lot with my fellow-believers for the pains
and penalties of faith in Mesmerism which
yet remain, if indeed I may be permitted
the honour of sharing them with the ear-
lier confessors, who have suffered and
sacrificed more in the cause than now
remains to be suffered and sacrificed by
any number of later disciples. I say
"we," also, because I need, as much as
any one, plain monitions as to the spirit
in which the truths of Mesmerism ought
to be held.
Seeing, as we do at times, how many
there are who cannot believe in anything
so out of their way, how man}' who cannot
see what is before their eyes, or hear what
meets their ears, or understand what offers
itself to their understandings, through pre-
conceptions and narrow and rigid habits of
mind —how many who cannot retain the
convictions of -the hour, but go home and
shake them all out of their minds on the
way, or throw them overboard at the first
jest they hear—how the cold and passion-
less pass through life without any sense
of its commonest, but deepest and highest
mysteries ; —knowing these things in our
soberest moments, why cannot we bear
24 MISS MARTINEAU'S
them about with us amidst the oppositions
we meet with in society] Why should
we chafe ourselves because minds are not
all of the same rank and quality, or inter-
ested in the same pursuits—as if truth
could not wait to be apprehended, and
privilege to be accepted J On behalf of
the sick and mutilated, who, in addition to
their pain and infirmity, have to bear in-
sult and calumny, some indignation may
be allowed ; but for ourselves, we should
be at once too humble and too proud to
entertain it : too humble on the ground of
our exceedingly imperfect knowledge, and
too highly graced by our privilege of such
knowledge as we have to deprecate the dis-
pleasure of others at our use of it. Though
I have had more cause for grateful surprise
at the candour and sympathy I have met
with, than for regret at short-comings of
temper among my friends, there was a
season when the following words, in a let-
ter from a friend (one who was restored to
health through Mesmerism, when such an
experience involved much more moral suf-
fering than now), went to my heart with
most affecting force :
—" Is it needless (if
so, forgive me) to beg you to seek patience
when you find people will disbelieve their
own eyes and ears 1 My experience is not
less close or heartfelt than yours, though
I had not to be relieved from actual pain.
At first, it made tears come to my heart
when others were not grateful in my way
for my cure ; and rather indignant was I
too when they doubted my statements ; but
do not you be like what I was. [Would I
were !] Why should we be believed more
than those of old, who were disbelieved 1
and do not men act according to their na-
tures 1 Is there child-like faith on the
earth, any more in these than in former
days 1 If there were, would not and
have believed even poor honest me?"
A postscript to this letter carries us on
to the thought of our privileges: —"I ob-
serve that you see and feel the beauty which
it is useless to talk of to unbelievers."
Yes, indeed ! and when the word " com-
pensation" rises to my lips, I put it down
as an expression of ingratitude,—so little
proportion can our vexations bear to our
gains—so insignificant is this sprinkling of
tares amidst the harvest to which we are
putting our hands.
Perhaps it is better not to enter upon any
account of what it is to see the purest hu-
man ministering that can be beheld—
a
ministering which has all affection, and no
instinct in it—where the power follows the
course of the affections, and proceeds with
them " from strength to strength," the be-
nevolence invigorated by its own good
deeds, and invigorating in its turn the be-
nign influence. Time, and a wise and prin-
cipled use of this yet obscure power, will
show how far it can go in spreading among
the human family a beneficent and uniting
ministration, by which a singularly close
spiritual sympathy, enlightened and guard-
ed by insight, may be attained. There is
moral beauty, acting through physical ame-
lioration, in the means, and the extremest
conceivable moral beauty in the anticipa-
ted end. To witness and contemplate these
means and this end is a privilege better in-
dicated than expatiated on. Such brethren
and sisters of charity as the world has yet
known have won the reverence and affec-
tion of all hearts. There is beauty in the
spectacle and contemplation of a new and
higher order of these arising, to achieve,
with equal devotedness, a more efficacious
and a more elevated labour of love and
piety.
A consideration more clearly open to
general sympathy (at least, the general
sympathy of the wise) is, that, through all
time, the privilege rests with the believers,
and not with those who, for any cause, can-
not enter into new truth. Affirmative con-
viction is, here, as we may suppose it may
be hereafter, the chief of blessings, and
the securest, when it is reached at once
through the unclouded reason and the in-
genuous heart. The possession of this
blessing has oftentimes been found a trea-
sure, for which it was easy to lose the
whole world, and possible to meet per-
secution, isolation, the consuming of the
body, and the racking of the affections, with
steadiness and serenity. What ought now,
then, to be complained of as the natural
cost of our portion of this blessing ? Com-
plaint, regret, is not to be thought of. To
know certainly any new thing of human
nature—to believe firmly any great purpose
of human destiny—is a privilege so inesti-
mable, adds such a value to the individual
life of each of us, such a sacredness to col-
lective human existence, that the liabilities
to which it subjects us should pervert our
minds no more than motes should distort
the sunbeams.
LETTERS ON MESMERISM.
LETTER VII.
Tynemouth, Nov. 28, 1844.
Many persons suppose that when the
truth use, and beauty of Mesmerism are
established, all is settled ; that no further
ground remains for a rejection of it. My
own late experience, and my observation
°*
u
at 1S Passm? abroad, convince me
that this is a mistake. I know that there
are many who admit the truth and function
of Mesmerism, who yet discountenance it.
I know that the repudiation of it is far more
extensive than the denial. It gives me pain
to hear this fact made the occasion of con-
temptuous remark, as it is too often by such
as know Mesmerism to be true. The re-
pudiation I speak of proceeds from minds
of a high order ; and their superstition (if
superstition it be) should be encounter-
ed with better weapons than the arro-
gant compassion which I have heard ex-
pressed.
I own I have less sympathy with those
who throw down their facts before the
world, and then despise all who will not be
in haste to take them up, than with some
I know of, who would seriously rather suf-
fer to any extent, than have recourse to re-
lief which they believe unauthorised; who
would rather that a mystery remained sa-
cred than have it divulged for their own
benefit : who tell me to my face that they
would rather see me sent back to my
couch of pain than witness any tamper-
ing with the hidden things of Providence.
There is a sublime rectitude of sentiment
here, which commands and wins one's
reverence and sympathy; and if the facts
of the history and condition of Mesmer-
ism would bear out the sentiment, no one
would more cordially respond to it than
I—no one would have been more scru-
pulous about procuring recovery by such
means—no one would have recoiled with
more fear and disgust from the work of
making known what I have experienced
and learned. But I am persuaded that a
knowledge of existing facts clears up the
duty of the case, so as to prove that the
sentiment must, while preserving all its
veneration and tenderness, take a new
direction, for the honour of God and the
safety of man.
Granting to all who wish that the pow-
ers and practice of Mesmerism (for which
a better name is sadly wanted) are as old
as man and society ; that from age to age
there have been endowments and func-
tions sacred from popular use, and there-
fore committed by providential authority
to the hands of a sacred class ;
that the ex-
istence of mysteries ever has been, and
probably must ever be, essential to the
spiritual welfare of man ; that there should
V
D
ever be a powerful sentiment of sanctity
investing the subject of the ulterior pow-
ers of immortal beings in their mortal
state ; that it is extremely awful to wit-
ness, and much more to elicit, hidden fac-
ulties, and to penetrate by their agency in
to regions of knowledge otherwise unat-
tainable ; —admitting all these things, still
the facts of the present condition of Mes-
merism in this country, and on two conti-
nents, leave to those who know them, no
doubt of the folly and sin of turning away
from the study of the subject. It is no
matter of choice whether the subject shall
remain sacred—a deposit of mystery in
the hands of the Church—as it was in the
Middle Ages, and as the Pope and ma-
ny Protestants would have it still. The
Pope has issued an edict against the study
and practice of Mesmerism in his domin-
ions ; and there are some members of the
Church of England who would have the
same suppression attempted by means of
ecclesiastical and civil law at home. But
for this it is too late : the knowledge and
practice are all abroad in society ; and they
are no more to be reclaimed than the wa-
ters, when out in floods, can be gathered
back into reservoirs. The only effect of
such prohibitions would be to deter from
the study of Mesmerism, the very class
who should assume its administration, and
to drive disease, compassion, and curiosity
into holes and corners to practice as a sin
what is now done openly and guiltlessly,
however recklessly, through an ignorance
for which the educated are responsible.
The time past for facts of natural philos-
ophy to be held at discretion by priest-
hoods ; for any facts which concern all
human beings to be a deposit in the hands
of any social class. Instead of re-enact-
ing the scenes of old—setting up temples
with secret chambers, oracles, and mirac-
ulous ministrations—instead of reviving
the factitious sin and cruel penalties of
witchcraft, (all forms assumed by mes-
meric powers and faculties in different
times), instead of exhibiting false myste-
ries in an age of investigation, it is clearly
our business to strip false mysteries of
their falseness, in order to secure due re-
verence to the true, of which there will
ever be no lack. Mystery can never fail
while man is finite : his highest faculties
of faith will, through all time and all eter-
nity, find ample exercise in waiting on
truths above his ken : there will ever be
in advance of the human soul a region
" dark through excess of light ;" while all
labour spent on surrounding clear facts
with artificial mystery is just so much
profane effort spent in drawing minds
26 MISS MART1NK At »S
away from the genuine objects of faith.
And look at the consequences ! Because
philosophers will not study the facts of
that mental rapport which takes place in
Mesmerism, whereby the mind of the ig-
norant often gives out in echo the knowl-
edge of the informed, we have claims of
inspiration springing up right and left.
Because medical men will not study the
facts of the mesmeric trance, nor ascer-
tain the extremest of its singularities, we
have tales of Estaticas, and of sane men
going into the Tyrol and elsewhere to
contemplate, as a sign from heaven, what
their physicians ought to be able to report
of at home as natural phenomena easily
producible in certain states of disease.
Because physiologists and mental philoso-
phers will not attend to facts from whose
vastness they pusillanimously shrink, the
infinitely delicate mechanism and organiza-
tion of brain, nerves and mind are thrown
as a toy into the hands of children and
other ignorant persons, and of the base.
What, again, can follow from this but the
desecration, in the eyes of the many, of
things which ought to command their rev-
erence 1 What becomes of really divine
inspiration when the commonest people
find they can elicit marvels of prevision
and insight'? What becomes of the ven-
eration for religious contemplation when
Estaticas are found to be at the command
of very unhallowed—wholly unauthorized
hands] What becomes of the respect in
which the medical profession ought to be
held, when the friends of the sick and suf-
fering, with their feeling ail alive, see the
doctors' skill and science overborne and
set aside by means at the command of an
ignorant neighbour—means which are all
ease and pleasantness 1 How can the
profession hold its dominion over minds,
however backed by law and the opinion of
the educated, when the vulgar see and
know that limbs are removed without
pain, in opposition to the will of the doc-
tors, and in spite of their denial of the
facts'? What avails the decision of a
whole College of Surgeons that such a
thing could not be, when a whole town
full of people know that it was ? Which
must succumb, the learned body or the
fact ? Thus are objects of reverence des-
ecrated, not sanctified, by attempted re-
striction of truth, or of research into it.
Thus are human passions and human des-
tinies committed to reckless hands, for
sport or abuse. No wonder if somnam-
bules are made into fortune-tellers—no
wonder if they are made into prophets of
fear, malice and revenge, by reflecting in
their somnambulism the fear, malice, and
revenge of their questioners ; no wonder
if they are made even ministers of death,
by being led from sick-bed to sick-bed in
the dim and dreary alleys of our towns, to
declare which of the sick will recover, and
which will die! Does any one suppose
that powers so popular, and now so dif-
fused, can be interdicted by law—such
oracles silenced by the reserve of the
squeamish—such appeals to human pas-
sions hushed—in an age of universal com-
munication, by the choice of a class or
two to be themselves dumb'? No: this
is not the way. It is terribly late to be
setting about choosing a way, but some-
thing must be done ; and that something
is clearly for those whose studies and art
relate to the human frame to take up, ear-
nestly and avowedly, the investigation of
this weighty matter ; to take its practice
into their own hands, in virtue of the ir-
resistible claim of qualification. When
they become the wisest and the most
skilful in the administration of Mesmer-
ism, others, even the most reckless vul-
gar, will no more think of interfering than
they now do of using the lancet, or oper-
ating on the eye. Here, as elsewhere,
knowledge is power. The greater knowl-
edge will ever insure the superior power.
At present, the knowledge of Mesmerism,
superficial and scanty as it is, is out of the
professional pale. When it is excelled by
that which issues from within the profes-
sional pale, the remedial and authoritative
power will reside where it ought; and not
till then. These are the chief considera-
tions which have caused me to put forth
these letters in this place ;
—an act which
may seem rash to all who are unaware
of the extent of the popular knowledge
and practice of Mesmerism. The Athe-
nceum* is not likely to reach the ignorant
classes of our towns; and if it did, the ca-
ses I have related would be less striking to
them than. numbers they have learned by
the means of itinerant Mesmerists. The
Athenceum does reach large numbers of ed-
ucated and professional men ; and I trust
some of them may possibly be aroused to
consideration of the part it behoves them
to take.
As for the frequent objection brought
against inquiry into Mesmerism, that there
should be no countenance of an influence
which gives human beings such power
over one another, I really think a moment's
reflection, and a very slight knowledge of
Mesmerism would supply both the answers
which the objection requires. First, it is
too late, as I have said above ; the power
is abroad, and ought to be guided and
controlled. Next, this is but one addition
to the powers we have over one another
already ; and a far more slow and difficult
one than many which are safely enough
possessed. Every apothecary's shop is
of deadly drugs—every workshop is
full
* The Letters were first published in London in
the " Athenaeum, a Journal of English and Foreien
Literature and the Fine Arts."
LETTERS ON MESMERISM. 27
full of deadly weapons—wherever we go.
there are plenty of people who could knock
us down, rob, and murder us; wherever we
live there are plenty of people who could
defame and ruin ns. Why do they not \
Because moral considerations deter them.
Then bring the same moral considerations
to bear on the subject of Mesmerism. If
the fear is of laying victims prostrate in
trance, and exercising spells over them,
the answer is, that this is done with infi-
nitely greater ease and certainty by drugs
than it can ever be by Mesmerism; by
drugs which are to be had in every street.
And as sensible people do not let narcotic
drugs lie about in their houses, within reach
of the ignorant and mischievous, so would
they see that Mesmerism was not practised
without witnesses and proper superinten-
dence. It is a mistake, too, to suppose
that Mesmerism can be used at will to
strike down victims, helpless and uncon-
scious, as laudanum does, except in cases
of excessive susceptibility from disease ;
cases which are of course, under proper
ward. The concurrence of two parties is
needful in the first place, which is not the
case in the administration of narcotics
:
and then the practice is very uncertain in
its results on most single occasions ; and
again, in the majority of instances ; it ap-
pears that the intellectual and moral pow-
ers are more, and not less vigorous than
in the ordinary state. As far as I have
any means of judging, the highest facul-
ties are seen in their utmost perfection
during the mesmeric sleep ; the innocent
are stronger in their rectitude than ever,
rebuking levity, reproving falsehood and
flattery, and indignantly refusing to tell se-
crets, or say or do anything they ought not;
while the more faulty confess their sins,
and grieve over and ask pardon for their
offences. The volitions of the Mesmerist
may actuate the movements of the pa-
tient's limbs, and suggest the material of
his ideas ; but they seem unable to touch
his morale. In this state the morale ap-
pears supreme, as it is rarely found in the
ordinary condition. If this view is mista-
ken, if it is founded on too small a collec-
tion of facts, let it be brought to the test
and corrected. Let the truth be ascer-
tained and established; for it cannot be
extinguished, and it is too important to
be neglected.
And now one word of respectful and
sympathizing accost unto those reverent
and humble spirits who painfully question
men's right to exercise faculties whose
scope is a new region of insight and fore-
sight. They ask whether to use these
faculties be not to encroach upon holy
ground, to trespass on the precincts of the
future and higher life. May I inquire of
these in reply, what they conceive to be
the divinely appointed boundary of our
knowledge and our powers 1 Can they
establish, or indicate, any other boundary
than the limit of the knowledge and powers
themselves 1 Has not the attempt to do
so failed from age to age? Is it not the
most remarkable feature of the progress
of Time that, in handing over the future
into the past, he transmutes its material,
incessantly, and without pause, converting
what truth was mysterious, fearful, impi-
ous to glance at, into that which is safe,
beautiful and beneficent to contemplate
and use,—a clearly consecrated gift from
the Father of all to the children who seek
the light of his countenance. Where is his
pleasure to be ascertained but in the ascer-
tainment of what he gives and permits, in
the proof and verification of what powers
he has bestowed on us, and what knowl-
edge he has placed within our reach ?
While regarding with shame all pride of
intellect, and with fear the presumption of
ignorance I deeply feel that the truest hu-
mility is evinced by those who most sim-
ply accept and use the talents placed in
their hands; and that the most childlike
dependence upon their Creator appears in
those who fearlessly apply the knowledge
he discloses to the furtherance of that
great consecrated object the welfare of the
family of man.
HARRIET MARTINEAU.
COPLAND'S DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL MEDICINE,
__
IN MONT HLY PA RTS,
_
PART III. PRICE FIFTY CENTS EACH.
PUBLISHED THIS DAY, BY
HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW-YORK,
A DICTIONARY OP PRACTICAL MEDICINE,
COMPRISING
GENERAL PATHOLOGY, THE NATURE AND TREATMENT
OF DISEASES, MORBID STRUCTURES,
AND THE DISORDERS ESPECIALLY INCIDENTAL TO CLIMATES, TO THE SBX,
AND TO THE DIFFERENT EPOCHS OF LIFE ;
WITH NUMEROUS PRESCRIPTIONS FOR THE MEDICINES RECOMMENDED.
A Classification of Diseases according to Pathological Principles ; a Copious
Bibliography, with References ; and an Appendix of approved Formulae
The whole forming a Library of Pathology and Practical Medicine, and a Digest of Medical Literature.
BY JAMES COPLAND, M.D., F.R.S.,
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians ; Vice-President of the Royal Medical and
Chirurgical Society of London ; Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of
Medicine in the Middlesex Hospital Medical School, <fc, Src, <fc.
EDITED, WITH NOTES AND ADDITIONS,
BY CHARLES A. LEE, M.D.,
Professor of General Pathology and Materia Medica in Geneva Medical College, Sec, <fc.
" Dr. Copland has here published a series of essays which may be justly said to be unrivalled
for extent and accuracy of information, methodic arrangement, and the condensed form in which
they are composed. If he proceeds as he has commenced, he will produce a work which is yet
unrivalled in the English language."—Edin. Med. <$• Surg. Jour.
" The immense quantity of matter which is here compressed into a small space, must render
the work a very popular one, more especially for those practitioners who reside in the country,
or travel abroad, on account of the facility of reference, and the portability of the Dictionary.
The labor is immense, and will stamp the author as a man of great research and sound judgment.
—Medico-Chirurgical Review.
" Dr Copland's book bears internal evidence of having been the object of years of labor and inves-
tigation directed to the end in view. Not the least praise we have to bestow upon the execution,
is the iust keeping observed in respect to the length of the articles ;
those which relate to the diseas-
es of moment being fully discussed in well-digested essays, while no attempt is made to give conse-
auence to those which are unimportant. The work is a miracle of industry, and forms a fitting com-
panion to the iustly-popular '
Surgical Dictionary' of Mr. Cooper."—London Medical Gazette.
"A careful perusal of this volume enables us to bestow upon it our full and unequivocal approba-
tion Whether we estimate its individual merits, or regard it in comparison with its contemporary
rivals in the various European languages, we find it entitled to rank with the foremost."—Lancet.
"So condense I in style, and so excellent in execution, that analysis is impossible, and criti-
cism very difficult."—Medical Quarterly Review. .
" A work displaying such extraordinary extent of reading, and such deep and comprehensive
reflection, as to demand a place in the library of every medical man."—EUiotsoiCs Physiology.
This work contains the opinions and practice of the most experienced medical writers, British
a Fnreiffn digested and wrought up with the results of the author's experience during a period of
th >tv v'ears presenting a diversified range of opinions, methods of cure, and authorities, not
?
Y
hP ml'-with elsewhere It also contains a full exposition of the general principles of pathology,
imitp\lescription of the organic lesions of the human body, and a detailed account of those
state" of disorder incidental to the sex, the different periods of life, and to particular climates, &c.
Each number will comprise 144 finely printed pages, double columns, and the
entire work be completed in about 20 larts.
HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW-YORK,
HAVE NOW READY, A REVISED EDITION OF
WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY
OF THE
ENGLISH LANGUAGE,
CONTAINING
ALL THE ADDITIONAL WORDS IN THE LAST EDITION OF THE LARGER WORK
Price $3 HO, Sheep.
RECOMMENDATIONS.
This volume 's designed to be a complete defining and
pronouncing dictionary for general use. With reference to
the first object, it embraces a much larger proportion of Dr.
Webster's great work, than is usual in abridgments of this
kind, Comprising more than half the matter of the two ori-
ginal quartos. With reference to the second object, import-
ant additions have teen rnado from other sources, which
render it a more comprehensive work than any of the kind
in our language ; embracing, as it does, not only the pro-
nunciation of English words, but of Latin, Greek, and
Scripture Proper Names. Being formed with these views,
,t contains :
1st. All the words which are fouud in the American Dic-
tionary, with numerous additions from other quarters.
2d. AU the definitions of the original work, with all the
ihades of mianing as there given, expressed in the author's
own language, though to some extent in abridged terms.
The plan, however, has been to give the definitions, espe-
cially of synonymous words, with great fu'lness ; so that this
work is a substitute, to a great extent, lor a book of syno-
nyms.
3d. A complete system of English Pronunciation, every
word being so marked, as to exhibit the power of each let-
ter, and the proper place of the accent, at a single glance.
4th. A synopsis of words of disputed pronunciation. This
enables the reader to examine for himself, as to doubtful
|roints. About nine hundred words are given in the synop-
sis, with the decisions of seven distinguished wnters on
English orthoepy.
5th. The whole of Walker's Key to the Pronunciation of
Latin, Greek, and Scripture Proper Names. This is the
«ole and acknowledged standard on these subjects, both in
England and America. When printed by itself, this work
makes a volume of nearly three hundred pages, 8vo.
Of the numerous recommendations of the original work
and the abridgment, the following only can be here, given
From officers of Yale and Middlebury Colleges, and of the
Andover Theological Institution.
I " The merits of Dr. Webster's American Dictionary of the
English language are very extensively acknowledged. We
regard it as a great improvement on all the works which
Have preceded it : the definitions have a character of dis-
crimination, copiousness, perspicuity, and accuracy, not
;'ound, we believe, in any other dictionary of the English
language."
From Rev. Dr. Wayland, President of Brown University.
'•
It gives mc pleasure to state, that I have made use of
your quarto or octavo dictionary, ever since the time of their
publication ;
and that for copiousness, for exactitude of
definition, and adaptedness to the present state of litera-
ture and science, they seem to me to be the most valuable
Tcrks of the kind that I have ever seei. in our language."'
From Dr. Chapin, President of Columbia College, D. C.
" I am prepared, after protracted and careful examination,
•4> say that, in my judgment, the dictionary of Noah Webster
possesses unrivaled merit."
From Hon. Judge Story.
" I have had occasion to use and examine Dr. Webster's
qua/to dictionary, and the abridgment of it by Mr. Worces-
t. r Each of teem aooears to me to se executed with great
.am. 'earning '-d »e*aty
From Dr. Fisk and othtr officers of the Wesleyan University,
Middletown, Ct.
" We have seen and examined your American Dictionary,
and we think it unrivaled by any work of the kind in tht
English language."
From the Medical Faculty of Yale College, and otter distin
guished physicians.
" The subscribers having examined Dr. Webster's quarto
and octavo dictionaries, take pleasure in expressing our ap
probation of these works. The definitions, the most import-
ant part of such works, as to practical purposes, are full
and correct, and the vocabulary is by far the most extensivo
that has been published ; indeed, it is so complete as to bo
a substitute for all other dictionaries of the language."
From the Rev. T. H. Gallaudet, late Principal of the Amer-
ican Deaf and Dumb Asylum.
" I have no hesitation in saring, that Dr. Webster's Eng
lish Dictionary is decidedly the best with which I am ac-
quainted."
Similar recommendations have been given by more th%i
a hundred members of Congress, and by various conven
tions of literary men and teachers.
FOREIGN TESTIMONIALS.
From the Cambridge Independent Press.
" When this work is as well known in Britain as it is u
America, it will supersede every other book of the kind it
the same department of letters. Its excellence is obviout
and indisputable."
From (lie Dublin Literary Gazette.
" Dr. Webster's knowledge of languages appears to be
extensive, and his researches for authorities to establish the
meaning of words, not to be met with in other dictionaries,
numerous. The introduction of technical and scientific
terms is a very valuable addition to a general dictionary.
The notation adopted by him for expressing the true sound
of the vowels, is much simpler than that introduced b»
Sheridan, and followed by Walker."
From the Examiner.
" The veteran Webster's work is new to this country ; but
as far as we can judge, it seems to justify the highly favour-
able character it has long maintained in America ; and oui
view is corroborated by that of a learned friend and critic
who does net heBitate to say, that it is the best and most
useful dictionary of the English language that he has ever
seen."
From the Sun.
" It is imjiossible to refer to any one page, without disrer*
ering that Dr. Webster is a capital etymologist. Hii deri-
vations are exceedingly just, and his explanations -f terojj
are full without be ;
ng redundant."
From t,,' Aberdeen Chronicie.
" We beg to call the attention of our readers to the renrrft.
lication of this work, the tunreme e*ce)li ace of "Hichisso
obvious, that it is unnecessary for us to enlarge on its
merits."
°
Extended critiqvw Pi" the work, confirming the«o views
have appeared in the Westminster Review, and the Suieu'
'*fie '''-'
Erfltiibarrn
THE BEST SCHOOL GEOGRAPHY EVER PUBLISHED.
RECOMMENDATIONS
TO
MORSE'S SCHOOL GEOGRAPHY.
ILLUSTRATED BY
CEROGRAPHIC MAPS,
PRICE FIFTY CENTS PER COPY.
The Public School Society of the city of New-York
have unanimously adopted Morse's School Geogra-
phy into their extensive schools.
From D. Meredith Reese, A.M., M.D., County Superin-
tendent of Common Schools for the City and County of
New- York.
" Gentlemen—I have diligently examined the new work
you have just published for the use of schools, entitled
•
A System of Geography, illustrated with more than fifty
Cerographic Maps, and numerous Wood-cut Engravings,
by Sidney E. Morse, A.M.,' and compared it with the other
elementary works on that science which are in use in our
public and common schools.
"I take great pleasure in expressing the opinion thus
formed, that, in point of accuracy, simplicity, and conve-
nience for teachers and scholars, this work of Mr. Morse
is entitled to a decided preference over any other of the
elementary books on the subject which I have ever seen.
" In the happy art of condensation within a few brief
sententious paragraphs, of the important items or
practical
knowledge on the several countries of the Old and New
Worlds, presenting a compend of geographical, historical,
and statistical information in immediate connexion with
the numerous and graphic illustrations with which it
abounds, this book of Mr. Morse has no equal. The ample
size, superior acctiracy, distinctness, and beautiful colour-
ing of all the maps, the exer cises and descriptions, found,
for the most part, in direc*. connexion with the drawings
and maps to which they refer, are points of excellence
worthy of high commendation.
" The surprisingly ow price at which the work is pla-
ced renders it, indeed, a desideratum for the school com-
mittees, with whom economy of expenditure is indispen-
sable ; while teachers and scholars will find the use of this
book to lighten their labour, and render the beautiful study
of geography siill more attractive. D. M. Reese."
" This geography is the laboured production of a well-
disciplined mind and of a learned geographer, and contains
a greater amount of important matter in a small compass,
probably, than any other geography in existence. Every
remark has a definite object, and tells on that object.
Here are no loose generalities ; the matter Is exceedingly
select and well-chosen, and calculated to afford a definite
and vivid picture of the various countries of the world.
The youth who has thoroughly mastered this work will
have laid a broad foundation on which to build a thor-
ough and extensive acquaintance with the science of ge-
ography. The maps, produced by the application of a
new and useful art to this subject, are more minute, ex-
tensive, and accurate than is common in school atlases ;
and being included in the same book with the geography,
and on the same page with the reading matter to which
they apply, will afford facilities for consulting them to
which no other geographical work can pretend.
" Daniel Haskel."
" If we mistake not, it has important advantages over
all works on the science tLat have preceded it."—Buffalo
Com. Advertiser.
" Many geographies have been published the few years
past ; but this, in our opinion, combines excellences not
hitherto attained."— Otsego Co. Whig.
" We have glanced through this work, and we think
that we have never seen any initiary text-book on the
same subject that so well merits the attention of parents
and teachers."— Wilmington (JV. C.) Journal.
" This new Morse's Geography contains a mass of geo-
rrratihical information which it would hardly seem possi-
ble to condense into so small a compass, or to illustrate in
such a variety of ways."—S. S- Jour, and Gaz.
» The author has displayed much taste and ability in
the arrangement of the above work. It is destined to be-
come the most popular and useful school geography ever
nublished."—Highland Democrat.
'•
The work is the best calculated for the use of gehools
of any o(,ok we have ever lnet wi!l'-"—st-
Louis *"*"•
" The whole work is obviously the result of long and
careful study, and it is published in the best manner."
—
Newark Daily Advertiser.
"This work seems better adapted to the intelligent
study of geography by the youthful mind than any we
have yet seen."—Rahway (JV. J.) Advocate.
" This is unquestionably one of the most valuable of
the numerous recent contributions to the science of geog-
raphy."—Northern Light.
" We have a great many excellent geographies ; but
among them we do not find one which, take it all in all,
has so much to recommend it as 'Morse's School Geogra
phy.' "
—
Alexandria (Z>. C.) paper.
" The arrangement is the most convenient we ever saw,
and we have no hesitation in pronouncing the book one
of the best of its kind ever issued."— U. S. Sat. Post.
" We sincerely believe this is the best book of the kind
for schools that has been published. We confidently rec-
ommend it to the notice of all teachers."
—
Albion.
" The work strikes us as being one of great practical
utility, and we take pleasure in recommending it to the
favourable consideration of teachurs and parents in this
county."—" The Experiment," Norwalk, Ohio.
" Mr. Morse has brought to the preparation of his pres-
ent publication a large share of practical knowledge and
experience, which has enabled him to produce a volume
that, for accuracy and fulness of information, as well as
cheapness, will rival our most popular school geographies,
and secure for it extensive circulation and use."
—
South-
ern Churchman.
"The arrangement of this work, its handsome execu-
tion, and its extreme cheapness (50 cents), will bring it
into general use."
—
Bridgeport Standard.
" This is a quarto of 72 pages, and the most compendi-
ous and beautiful system of geography we have ever
seen."
—
Christian Reflector.
" It is at once a cheap, convenient, well-planned, and
well-executed system of geography, and must be speedily
adopted as the prevailing text-book on this subject."
—
JV. Y. American.
" This is really one of the very best works of the kind
that we have examined for a long time. The information
is full, clear, and comprehensive, and the maps and illus-
trations admirable."
—
Phila. Inquirer.
" The most useful school-book and work for general ref-
erence that has come under our notice for a length of
time."
—
Phila. Sun.
" It must, we think, become, ere long, the only one in
use throughout the country. It has many very marked
advantages over all other works of the kind ever offered."
—JV". Y. Courier and Enquirer.
" The present work presents the very best thing of the
kind which has ever fallen within our notice. It is the
result of long and extremely careful study, and we would
recommend it to the public as in all respects, at least so
far as we have examined it, faithful and relinble."
—
Prov.
Gazette.
" It is a very beautiful and convenient work for schools
and families."
—
Mothers' Journal.
" This work is compiled with great care from the most
approved authorities and surveys, and will be found of
great value to the common school student."
—
Westchester
Herald.
" It is a most useful work, beautifully printed, and we
hope to see it adopted by all our schools and private
teachers."
—
New-Orleans True Ame~ can.
" It must, we think, as soon as i oecomes known, be
universally used in every sohool ir Jie United States."
—
JV. Y. Sun.
" The work is designed, and admirably adapted for the
use of schools."
—
Spirit of the Timet.
AMERICAN LITERATURE
RECENTLY PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS.
CLARK'S ALGEBRA. Elements of Algebra:
embracing also the Theory and Application of
Logarithms ; together with an Appendix,
containing Infinite Series, the General Theo-
ry of Equations, and the most approved
Methods of resolving the higher Equations.
By Rev. Davis W. Clark. 8vo. $1 00.
PROUDFIT'S PLAUTUS. The Captives, a
Comedy of Plautus. With English Notes,
for the Use of Students. By John Proudfit,
D D. 18mo. 38 cents.
MATHEWS' WORKS. The various Wri-
tings of Cornelius Mathews, embracing The
Motley Book, Behemoth, The Politicans, Po-
ems on Man in the Republic, Wakondah,
Puffer Hopkins, Miscellanies, Selections from
Arcturus, International Copyright. Com-
plete in one volume. 8vo. $1 00.
BENNET'S BOOK-KEEPING. The Ameri-
can System of Practical Book-keeping : for
Schools, Academies, and Counting-houses.
By James A. Bennet, LL.D. 8vo. $1 50.
SCHMUCKER'S PSYCHOLOGY. Psychol-
ogy ; or, Elements of a new System of Men-
tal Philosophy, on the Basis of Conscious-
ness and Common Sense. Designed for Col-
leges and Academies. By S. S. Schmucker,
D.D., S.T.P. 12mo. $1 00.
UPHAM'S MENTAL PHILOSOPHY. Ele-
ments of Mental Philosophy: embracing the
two Departments of the Intellect and the
Sensibilities. By Professor Thomas C. Up-
ham. 2 vols. 12mo. Sheep extra. $2 50.
UPHAM'S ABRIDGMENT. Elements of
Mental Philosophy, abridged and designed as
a Text-book in Academies, &c. By T. C.
Upham. 12mo. Sheep extra. $1 25.
UPHAM ON THE WILL. A Philosophical
and Practical Treatise on the WiH. By T. C.
Upham. 12mo. Sheep Extra. $1 25.
UPHAM ON DISORDERED MENTAL AC-
TION. Outlines of Imperfect and Disorder-
ed Mental Action. By T. C. Upham. 18mo.
45 cents.
SUMMERFIELD'S SERMONS. Sermons
and Sketches of Sermons by the Rev. John
Summerfield, A.M., late a Preacher in Con-
nexion with the Methodist Episcopal Church.
With an Introduction by the Rev. Thomas E.
Bond, M.D. 8vo. $1 75.
FRENCH GRAMMAR. A New Sv.'p- ?f
Fr6E?t- Giainmar, containing the First Part
of the celebrated Grammar of Noel and Chap-
sal. Arranged with Questions, and a Key in
English, &c., &c. By Sarah E. Seaman.
Revised and corrected by C. P. Bordenave,
Professor of Languages. 12m j. 75 cents.
ENGINEERS' AND MECHANICS' POCK-
ET-BOOK. By C. H. Haswell, Chief-en-
gineer U. S. Navy. 12mo.
ANTHON'S VIRGIL. The ^Eneid of Virgil,
with English Notes, Critical and Explana-
tory, a Metrical Clavis, and an Historical
Geographical, and Mythological Index. Bj
Charles Anthon, LL.D. 12mo. Portrah
and many Illustrations. $2 00.
MICHELET'S MODERN HISTORY. Ele
ments of Modern History. From the Frencl
of Michelet. With an Introduction, Notea
&c, by Rev. Dr. Potter. 45 cents.
POTTER'S HAND-BOOK. Hand-book fo
Readers and Students, intended to assist Pri
vate Individuals, Associations, School Dis
tricts, &c, in the selection of useful and in
teresting works for Reading and Investiga
tion. By A. Potter, D.D. 45 cents.
MALAN'S INQUIRY. Can I join the Churcl
of Rome while my Rule of Faith is the Bible'
An Inquiry presented to the Conscience o
the Christian Reader. By the Rev. Cesai
Malan, D.D. 8vo.
RELIGION IN AMERICA ; including a View
of the various Religious Denominations in
the United States, &c., &c. By Rev. Dr
Baird. 75 cents.
DEFENCE OF THE WHIGS. By a Member
of the 27th Congress. 18mo. 25 cents.
STEPHENS'S TRAVELS in Yucatan.—Cen-
tral America, Chiapas, and Yucatan.—Egypt,
Arabia Petrsea, and the Holy Land.—Greece.
Turkey, Russia, and Poland. By John L.
Stephens.
THE SCHOOL AND THE SCHOOLMAS-
TER. By A. Potter, D.D., and by George
B. Emerson, A. M With Engravings. 12mo.
THE LIFE OF MAMES ARMINIUS, D.D.,
formerly Professor of Divinity in the Univer-
sity of Leyden. Compiled from his Life and
Writings, as published by Mr. James Nichol*,
By Nathan Bangs, D.D. 18mo. 50 cents.
SWEETHEARTS AND WIVES ; or, Before
and After Marriage. By T. S. Arthur.
18mo. 38 cents.
HISTORY OF THE CONQUEST OF MEXI-
CO, with a Preliminary View of the Ancient
Mexican Civilization, and the Life of the Con-
queror, Hernando Cortes. Bv William H
Pk«.6Cv/i-i. pvoia.svo. .engraving*. $6 00.
NARRATIVE OF THE TEXAN SANTA FE
EXPEDITION. By George W. Kendall
2 vols. 12mo. With Plates.
THE HEART delineated in its State by Na-
ture, and as renewed by Grace. By Rev.
Hugh Smith, D.D. ISmo.
ID" In addition to the above, H. cr B. have recently published several hundred volumes by Amcricar
Author* -for which see their Catalogue
r~
Price Six Cents.
MISS MARTIIEAU'S
LETTERS ON
MESMERISM.
**+* +****"""
NEW- YORK:
PUBLI i'S THERS,
X AND MUSIC STORE, X
X 3GG Bowery, 1 <loor above Mh-ttrett, XI
x *l
XBO°K BINDING NEATLY EXECUTED. XI
A NEW AND ILLUSTRATED EDITION, IN DEMY OCTAVO,
LORD BYRON'S
CHILDE HAROLD
PRICE FIVE DOLLARS, HANDSOMELY BOUND.
NEW-YORK:
HARPER & BROTHERS, CLIFF-STREET.
SLlst of plates, ISnjjtabeto on Steel,
FROM SKETCHES TAKEN ON THE SPOT, EXPRESSLY TO ILLUSTRATE
1 LORD BYRON
2 DELPHI
S NBWSTEAD
4 CINTRA .
5 MAFRA
TALAVERA
7 SEVILLE .
1 SPANISH MULETEER
9 SIEGE OF SARAGOSSA
10 CADIZ
11 BULL-TIGHT .
12 THE ACROPOLIS .
13 TEMPLE OF JUPITER
14 GIBRALTAR
15 MALTA
16 ITHACA .
17 YANINA .
18 ZITZA
19 ALI PACHA AT TEPALEEN
20 DANCE OF PALIKARS
21 PARGA
22 CONSTANTINOPLB
23 COLON NA .
24 MARATHON .
25 ADA ....
26 BRUSSELS
27 SOIGN1ES .
28 DRACHENFELS
29 EHRENBRE1TSTEIN
30 AVENTICUM
31 MONT BLANC.-SEEN FROM LAKE LEMAN
32 ROUSSEAU
33 LAKE LEMAN .
34 CHU.LON .
35 OUCHY (LAUSANNE)
36 VENICE
37 ST. MARK'S
38 STEEDS OF BRASS
39 PETRARCH'S TOMB AT ARQUA
40 PETRARCH'S HOUSE .
41 TASSO ....
42 FLORENCE
43 VENUS DE MEDI8HS
44 SANTA CROCE
45 THRASIMENE .
46 TEMPLE OF CLITUMNUS
47 SORACTE ....
48 ROME .
49 THE WOLF OF THE CAPITOL
50 TOMB OF CECILIA METALLA
51 ROME.—COLUMN OF PHOCAS IN THE FORUM
52 FOUNTAIN OF EGERIA
53 ROME.—COLISEUM
54 THE GLADIATOR .
55 ROME.—INTERIOR OF THE COLISEUM
56 MOLE OF ADRIAN .
57 ROME.—ST. PETER'S (INTERIOR)
5i THE LAOCOON
59 APOLLO
60 VIEW FROM MONT ALBANO
3STRATE " CHILDE HAROLD."
Phillips, R. A.
Capt. Ireton Creswick.
Ch. Fellows, Eh.
Capt. Ireton. H. Warren.
Do. Do
Rich. Ford, Esq. Do.
Do. Do
Do.
Rich. Foes, Esq. Do
Do.
AUBRET.
Capt. Ireton. H. WaRBBN.
Do. Do.
Do. Do
Lieut. Allen. Do
Capt. Ireton. Do
Do. Do.
Do. Do.
C. R. COCKF.RELL, R.A.
H. Warren.
Cipt. Ireton. Do
Do. Do
Do. Do.
Do. Creswick.
G. Howse.
Lieut. Allen H. Warren.
Do. Do.
Do. G. Howse.
Do. Creswick.
Ch. Fellows, Esq. II. Warren.
Do. Do.
Do. G. Howse.
J. B. Aylmer.
Creswick.
Do.
Ch. Fellows, Esq. H. Warren.
Lieut. Allen
Cn. Fellows, Esq.
Do.
Do. J. B. Aylmer.
Do. Do.
G. Howse.
J. B. Aylmer.
G. Howse.
J. B. Aylmer.
E. Finder
G. Howsb.
H. Warren.
J. B. Aymbr.
6it. Fellows, Esq. Creswick.
H. Warren.
Do
J. B. Aylmer.
Do.
Creswick.
H. Warren.
W. FlNDEM.
H. Wabrrit
Lieut. Allen. Do.
Ch. Fellows, Esq. G. Howsb.
W. Finden
_ _ _ E. FlHDEN.
Ch. Fellows, Esq. J. a. Atlmbr.
K7THI8 IB ONB OF THE CHEAPEST AND MOST EXQUISITELY BEAUTIFUL WORKS EYER PUBLISHED
[New-York, February, 1845.]
POPULAR WORKS
NOW PUBLISHING IN NUMBERS, BY HARPER & BROTHERS.
Illuminated Shakspeare.
The Writings op Shakspeare; edited by Gulian C. Verplanck: illuminated and illustrated with abeul
1400 Engravings, beautifully executed on wood, by Hewet. The whole to be printed on the finest sized paper, in the
first style of the typographic art ; and to be completed, jf pooible, during the present year. It will be the most iaag-
nificcnt edition ever published.
Illustrated Common Prayer.
The Book op Common Prater ; edited by Rev. J. M. Wainwright, D.D. Illustrated with nearly 700 En-
gravings on wood, by Hewet, elegantly printed on paper of the first quality, and to be completed in twelve numbers,
at 25 cents each. The text will be conformed to the Standard recently adopted by the General Convention of the
P. E. Church ; and the whole will constitute an edition ot the Church Services hitherto unequalled in point of beauty
and elegance.
Thirlwall's History of Greece.
A History of Greece : by the Rt. Rev. Connop Thirlwall, Lord Bishop of St. David's. To be completed
in eight numbers, at 25 cents each. The best History of Greece extant, well printed, and cheap.
Kendall's Life of Jackson.
The Life of Andrew Jackson, private, military* and civil. By Amos Kendall. To be completed in fifteen
numbers, at 25 cents each, illustrated with Engravings or Prints, averaging two to a Number, embracing Likenesses
of the General and others, Drawings of his Cattle-grounds, &c.
Illuminated Bible.
Harper's Illuminated and New Pictorial Bible. Embellished with more than Sixteen hundred Engra-
vings on wood, executed in the most finished style by Adams, principally from designs by Chapman. It will be
comprised in about fifty parts, at 25 cents each, embracing the Apocrypha, Marginal Reference*, and everything else
necessary to render it a perfect Family Bible ; and will form the most splendidly elegant edition of the Sacred
Record ever issued
Domestic Encyclopaedia.
Encyclopaedia of Domestic Economy ; comprising such Subjects as are most immediately connected with
House-keeping : as, the Construction of Domestic Edifices, with the Modes of warming, ventilating, and lighting
them ; a Description of the Various Articles of Furniture, with the Nature of their Materials ; Duties of Servants ;
a general Account of the Animal and Vegetable Substances used as Food, and the Methods of preserving and prepa-
ring them by Cooking ; making Bread ; the Chemical Nature and the Preparation of all Kinds of Fermented Liquors
nsed ae Beverage ;
Materials employed in Dress and the Toilet ;
Business of the Laundry ; Description of the vari-
ous Wheel Carriages ; Preservation of Health ; Domestic Medicine, <kc, &c. By Thomas Webster, F.G.S., <fcc,
and the late Mrs. PaRKES. With Additions and Improvements, by an American Physician. With nearly 1000 Ea-
eravines [To be completed in about 10 numbers, at 25 cents each.] The wide range of subjects treated in this work,
and their interesting nature, reader this one ef the nest useful productions of the press ; almost indispensable, in-
deed, to every housekeeper.
The Wandering Jew.
This thrilling Novel, by Eugene Sue, is publishing in Numbers, at 6$ cents each. The views of the Author on
li ious subjects, and the power and talent with which he presents them, may be inferred from the fact that the
•
I and ecclesiastical authorities of Westphalia, and, more recently, those of Havana and Belgium, have prohibited
culation of the " Jew" within their limits. This edition will embrace the entire work, correctly and elegantly
translated, without abridgment or alteration, »d wiU be issued IN advance of any other.
The Nevilles of Garretstown,
By the Author of " Charles O'Malley," " Tom Burke," Ac, is new publishing in Numbers, at 6$ cents each. The
peculiarities of the Author's style appear promineatly ia the present work, which is likely to be even more popular
than his greatest previous effort.
mmm
[February, 1845.]
POPULAR NOVELS, IN THE CHEAP FORM,
JUST PUBLISHED
BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW-YORK.
SAFIA ; or, the Magic of Count Cagliostro. A
Beauvoir, by P. F. Clirisnu and Eug«ue Lies. 25 cents.
THE MAID OF HONOUR; or, the Massacre
of St. Bartholomew. A Tale of the Sixteenth Century.
Price 25 cents.
THE REGENT'S DAUGHTER. Translated
from the French of Alexandre Dumas, by Charles H.
Town. Price 25 cents.
AGINCOURT. A Romance. By G. P. R.
James, Esq. Price 25 cents.
THE GAMBLER'S WIFE. A Novel. By
the Author of "The Young Prima Donna," "The Belle
v," etc. Price 25 cents. [Nearly Ready.]
THE NEVILLES OF GARRETSTOVVN. A
Tale of 1760. By the Author of " Tom Burke of Ours,"
&c, &c. Now publishing in Numbers at 6£ cents each.
ATTILA. A Novel. By G. P. R. James,
Esq. Price 25 cents.
ARTHUR ARUNDEL. A Tale of the English
Revolution. Price 25 cents.
TALES FROM THE GERMAN, comprising
Specimens from the most celebrated Authors. Transla-
John Oienford and C. A. Feilmg. Price I2J cents.
THE JILT. A Novel. By the Author of
" Cousin Geoffrey," &c, &c. Price 12J cents.
THE GRANDFATHER. A Novel. By the
Miss Ellen Pickering. Price 12£ cents.
THE WANDERING JEW. A Novel. By Eu-
gene Sue. Now publishing in Numbers at 6$ cents each.
TALES OF GLAUBER-SPA. By Miss C. M.
Sedgwick, Messrs. J. K. Paulding, W. C. Bryant, R. C.
Sands, and William Leggett. Price 25 cents.
ARRAH NEIL ; or, Times of Old. A Novel..
By G. P. R. James, Esq. Price 12J cents.
THE H FAMILY: Tralinnan ; Axel and
Anna ; and other Tales. By Fredrika Bremer. Trans-
by Mary Howitt. Price 12i cents.
THE TRIUMPHS OF TIME. By the Author
of " Two Old Men's Tales." Price 25 cents-
THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF MAR-
TIN CHUZZLEWIT. By Charles Dickens. Complete.
Illustrated by fourteen Steel Plates. Neatly bound in
cents.
ROSE D'ALBRET ; or, Troublous Times. A
Romance. By G. P. R. James, Esq. Price 12i cents.
AMY HERBERT. By a Lady. Edited by
the Rev. W. Seweil, B.D. Price 12* cents.
THE PRAIRIE BIRD. A Novel. By the
Hon. Charles Augustus Murray, Author of "Traveli in
North America." Price 25 cents.
ARTHUR. A Novel. Translated fuom the
French of Eugene Sue, by P. F. Christin, Esq. Price
25 cents.
CHATSWORTH ; of, the Romance of a Week.
Edited by the Author of " Tremaine," " Da Vore," &c.
Price 12£ cents.
YOUNG KATE ; or, the Rescue. A Tale of
the Great Kanawha. Price 25 cents.
THE JEW. A Novel. Price 12J cents.
THE HERETIC. A Novel. Translated from
the Russian of Lajetchnikoff, by Thomas B. Shaw, B.A.
THE* LIFE
1
AND ADVENTURES OF JACK
OF THE MILL, commonly called Lord Othmill
for his eminent Services, Baron Waldeck and Knight of
\ Fireside Story. By William Howitt.
Price 12J cents.
THE MYSTERIES-OF PARIS. A Novel.
Translated from the French of Eugene Sue. by Charles
H. To with GEROLSTEIN: a Se-
Bound in one Volume
in. Price 75 cents. In Paper, 56J cents.
—^ ~~
THE GRUMBLER. A Novel. By Miss Ellen
ihor of "The Heiress," &c, Ac. Price
NEw'sKETCHES OF EVERYDAY LIFE
:
A DIARY. Together with STRIFE AND i
Translated fro sh of Fredriktt Bremer, by
Marv Howitt. Price 124 rents.
THE UNLOVED ONE. A Domestic Story.
By Mrs. Hofland. Price 124, cents.
THE YEMASSEE. A Romance of Carolina.
By W. G. Siuims, LL.D. Price 25 ccn's.
THE BIRTHRIGHT A Novel. By Mrs.
Gore. Price 124 cents.
ARABELLA STUART. A Romance from
.History. By G. P. R. James, Esq Price 124. ct*.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL. In Prose. Being
a Ghost Story of Christmas. By Charles Dickens, Esq.
ThVBANKER'S WIFE; or, Court and City.
By Mrs. Gore. Trice 124 <
THE PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTERS. Part I.
By Fredrika Bremer. Translated by Mary Howitt.
Price 124 cents.
THE PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTERS. Part II.
NINA. By Fredrika Bremer. Translated by Mary
i . Price 121 r
THE NEIGHBOURS. A Story of Every-day
By Fredrika Bremer. Translated from the Swe-
dish bv Marv Howitt. Pn
THE FALSE HEIR. By G. P. R. James, Esq.
Price 12! cents.
THE LOST SHIP ; or, the Atlantic Steamer.
By the Author of " Cavendish," &c. Price 25 cents.
THE HOME ; or, Family Cares and Family
Joys. By Fredrika Bremer. Price 124, cents.
HOBOKEN : A ROMANCE OF NEW-YORK.
By Then. S. Fay. Price 50 cents.
SELF-DEVOTION ; or, the History of Kathe-
rine Randolph. By Harriette Campbell. Price 25 cents.
THE CZARINA: an Historical Romance of
the Court of Russia. Bv M Price 25 cents.
THE LAST OF THE BARONS. By Sir E.
L. Bnhver. Price 25 cents.
FOREST DAYS : a Romance of Old Times.
By G. P. R. James, Esq. Price 124, cents.
ADAM BROWN, the Merchant. By Horace
Smith, Esq. Price 124 ce
THE NABOB AT "HOME; or, the Return to
England. Price 25 cents.
ERNEST MALTRAVERS. By SirE. L. Bui-
wer. Engraving. Price 25 cents.
ALICE ; or, the Mysteries : a Sequel to " Er-
nest Maltravers." By Sir E. L. Bulwer. Engraving.
Price 25 cents.
THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII. By Sir E.
L. Bulwer. Engraving. Price 25
RIENZI, THE LAST OF THE TRIBUNES.
Bv Sir E. L. Bulwer. Engraving. Price 25 cents.
THE DISOWNED: a Tale. By Sir E. L.
Bulwer. Engraving. Price 25 cents.
DEVEREUX : a Tale. By Sir E. L. Bulwer.
Engraving. Price 25 cents.
PAUL CLIFFORD. By SirE. L. Bulwer. En-
graving. Price 25 cents.
a Tale. By Sir E. L. Bul-
wer. i
PILGR HE RHINE. By Sir E. L.
Bulwer. Pric« 12-i
HOME; or, ttie Iron Rule.- a Domestic Story
By Mrs. Ellis. Plrii
PELHAM ;
or, the Adventures of a Gentleman.
By Sir E. L. Bulwer. Portrait. Price 25
77
