{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__moore___power_of_the_soul.pdf","mytitle":"Power Of The Soul","mylang":"de"}
THE
POWER OF THE SOUL
OVER THE BODY,
CONBIDBUD
IN RELATION TO HEALTH AND MORALS.
BY
GEORGE MOORE, M.D.,
M:JtKBBR OP TRB ROYAL COLLBOJt OP PRYSICI.lNI, LONDON,
IITC. IITC.
" Thou hast a noble guest, 0 11eah!"
st. Bernard.
LONDON:
LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS,
PATERNOSTER ROW.
MDCCCXLV.
CONTENTS.
PART I.
~~ Pq~
Introduction .. • .. .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• 1
I. The Adaptation of the Body to the Soul 15
II. The Organs of Senae the Instruments of the Mind • • 25
III. The Mind is not the Result of Sensation •• . • •• •• 30
IV. TheValueofthe8en8ea and Observations on their Use 39
V. Connexion of the Mind with the Brain, &c. •• •• •• 55
VI. Evils of Popular Phrenology .. •• •• •• •. •• . • •• •• 6•
VII. Nature of the Nervous System and ita Obedience to
the Will.................................. 72
VIII. The Power of Attention and ita connexion with Sleep 81
IX. The State of the Will in Dreaming •• •• •• •• . . •• •• 90
X. IDuatrationa of the Power of the Mind in Dreaming,
Somnambulism, &c. •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• 95
XI. The State of the Attention modifies Sensation •• •• 108
XII. The Faculty of Abstraction •••••••••••••••.• , •• 115
XIII. The Difference between Absence and Abstraction of
Mind, and their Relations to the State of the Will
in Connexion with the Body .... .... .. ...... 122
XIV. The Action of the Mind on the Nervous Organization
in Memory, &c. • ....................... 130
XV. The Connexion of Memory with the Habit and Con-
dition of the Brain, and the Use of the Body ••• 14•
XVI. The Inftnence of Mental Habit on the Character of
the Memory ·• • • • • • • • • • • .. •• •• •• •. •. .. •• 151
XVII. The Connexion ofMemory with Double Consciousness 162
XVIII. Further Facts and Observations in Proof of the Im-
material Nature of Memory • • • • • • • • .. .. .. 172
Vl CONTENTS.
PART II.
I. The Positive Action of the Mind on the Body, as-
serted and exemplified in the efFects of exceuive
Attention • • • • • • • • . . •• . • •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• 187
II. InjudicioWI Education • • • • .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 194
III. Peculiar efFects of inordinate Mental Determination 206
IV. The efFectS of undue Attention to one's own Body 215
V. Misemployment of the Mind .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 226
VI. Chagrin and Suicide • .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 236
VII. Irritable Brain, Insanity, &c.................. 243
VIII. A general view of the EfFects of the Passions on
Health .................................. 254
IX. Sympathy •• . . •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• 273
X. Solitude .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •........ ....• .. .. 284
XI. The Government of the Passions .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •• 292
XII. The highest Triumph of the Soul.-ConclWiion. •• 297
PREFACE.
THIS sketch of the influence of the mind on the
body, was commenced and continued with the
feeling that the soul is the true object of affection,
and that all its interests are essentially religious.
The principal part of the volume was written se-
veral years since, during the unwelcome, but
valuable, leisure of disease ; for the purpose of
being addressed to a few ·young men, who ap-
peared to be deeply impressed with the nature
and importance of the subject. On a re-perusal
of the manuscript, the recollection of this en-
couragement induced a hope that the publication
might find an apology in the approval of reflect-
ing readers; especially as, at this time, the public
mind is unusually roused to the observation of
mental influences, in the production of remark-
able phenomena under mesmerism and disease.
The views exhibited in these pages, having been
viii PBBPACB.
consolatory and instructive to himself, the author
trusts will be deemed at least a good reason for
his endeavour thus to obtain the attention of
others. A corresponding volume, concerning Bo-
dily Temperament, Will and Habit, was intended
to have accompanied this, but it may more suit-
. ably follow, should public favour in any degree
encourage the present adventure.
As said good old "Ihon Caiua, Docteu.r in Pki-
licke," A.. D. 1552, " man heging horne not for hil
owne t1se and comoditie alone, but also for the
comma henejite of many, (as reason wil and algood
authoru write) he whiche in thil world i8 worthy to
lyue, ought al ways to haue hi8 hole minde and in-
tente geuen to profile others. Which thynge to
shewe in ejfecte in my self, although lJy fortune aome
waies I haue been letted, yet lJy that whiche fortune
cannot deharre, aome waiea again I haue declared."
Hutiogs,
March 11th, 1845.
INTRODUCTION.
THE term soul has been preferred to stand in the
title of this volume, because in common discourse
it is employed to signify an ·individual intelligent
being, which actuates the body and is popularly
supposed to be capable of an active existence in-
dependent on physical connection. It is meant
to designate that which is conscious of acting,
thinking, and willing. To avoid confusion, the
words soul, mind, and spirit will be employed·as
synonymou!l; because to distinguish their proper
shades of meaning would require a metaphysical
nicety incompatible with the purpose of this work.
We perceive the diversified operations ofthe think-
ing principle, and call it by different names accord-
ing to its different manifestations ; but the tmity
of its nature, like that of God himself, is an an-
nounced or a revealed truth, to be received by
faith, because our faculties will not allow us yet
to comprehend an existence without parts. In
B
.(
2 INTRODUCTION.
using the senses, we speak of the soul under the
term Sense ; when inferring truth from truth, we
call it Understanding; when fancying the future,
Imagination; when reviewing the past, Memory ;
when choosing or refusing, Will. Yet all our
faculties are but properties of one being, and we
feel our identity amidst all the diversity of our
thoughts and purposes.
We cannot explain the mode any more than the
nature of that which thinks; and mere endeavours
to define what we cannot demonstrate, neither
improve our faculties, nor advance our knowledge.
An elaborate disquisition on mind and matter,
would therefore be a useless demand on patience ;
and since we ca"\not discover any thing concern-
ing either but in their operations on each other,
if we would learn their relative importance, we
must study their reciprocal influence.
Some philosophers, perhaps forgetful that mind
is manifested by its own consciousness, have as-
serted that intelligence is but a result of material
constitution, and therefore that the decay or de-
struction of the physical organization, with which
it is at present connected, necessarily involves
also the everlasting dissolution of the thinking
principle. Whether true or false, this must be
a miserable conclusion ; for it implies that our
Creator, if there be one, has formed his sentient
and intelligent creature-man, for no other pur-
INTRODUCTION, 3
pose than to witness for a short time his own pa-
radoxica,l existence, to contrast his desires with
his destiny, to shrink away in terror from the
sight and the thought of all that is glorious,
great, good, or enduring, and to shun all notion
of Deity, lest what is thus presented to his appre-
hension, should excite aspiring wishes and build
up lofty hopes, only that their destruction may
be the more certain and the more extensive. The
wondrous speculum, which restless research in-
spires man with ingenuity to fabricate, reflects
the dim glimmerings of infinite worlds, into which
he would direct his enquiring ken, only to kindle
and expand and then becloud his reason; for to
follow its promptings were merely madness, and
wisdom would be impossible; even to know would
be v~ty and folly, unless we knew that existence
might be equal to our felt capacity of enjoying it.
Were a man sure that he could not possibly pos-
sess a better than this earthly life, to look off from
this. dull cold spot would only be to aggravate his
doom. The glory of distant worlds would fall like
a blight upon his being, for it will suggest possi-
bilities of intelligence and delight for ever beyond
his reach.
A creeping thing prepares for its perfection,
and at length bursts from its silken tomb with
newly-developed form, appetites and nature. Like
a "winged flower," with brilliant and delicate
B2
4 INTRODUCTION.
pinions and rich in gems, it gladly flutters with
the light, and sips nectar from the hand of God.
The grub may tend to be a butterfly, but why
should the worm just peeping from its clod aspire
to anything beyond the clay on which it is des-
tined to crawl and rot? Aud why should man
look higher? Why? His spirit will not crawl, it
travels along with the light into infinite space,
and calculates on a life and a capacity commen-
surate with its desires. He is impelled by a
belief, which seems essential to his rational exist-
ence, that this beautiful world is not altogether a
delusive show; for he cannot think that the won-
drous facts of creation teach him to look for the
end of truth only in death ; but he feels that, in
proportion as his intellect expands and expatiates
in knowledge, does it aspire to immortality, and
when most intimate with the realities of time, his
reason finds stability, satisfaction, and rest, only
in communion with the Eternal.
All who have looked below the surface of
things, must account that science despicable, and
that philosophy pitifully meagre, which afford no
higher object of pursuit than a little sensuality ;
no brighter prospect than a phantom life, no better
end than an endless death.
If believers in the material system of faith (it
demands great faith, such as it is,) indeed allow
that there is existence beyond things, if they do
INTRODUCTION, 5
allow a God, it certainly must be a god of their
own. He cannot have revealed himself to the
world, for there is not any reasonable pretence to
a revelation but in the Bible; and therefore those
who believe, in contradiction to that Book, the
doctrine which teaches that the soul dies with the
body, must have substituted their own opinions
for the declarations of that venerable authority,
and instead of worshipping Jehovah, or in any
measure obeying his laws, they must have consti-
tuted themselves their own deity, and made their
own glory and convenience the end of all their
thoughts, and all their actions. Unhappy men !
like fallen spirits their pride separates them both
from divine and human sympathy,-they cannot
believe that omnipotence is love, and therefore
they cannot adore.
But there are those who tell us they have tasted
a better philosophy, and they teach us to regard
it as " a perpetual feast of nectared sweets," of
which the more we partake, the more we enjoy,
and indeed the effect of its fullest enjoyment is
nothing short of actual participation in Divine
nature. This philosophy regards man as formed
to be instructed by acquaintance with good and
evil in this world, that the will may be disciplined
under moral aud physical law, and having know-
ledge imparted, and motives presented to the
6 INTRODUCTION.
soul, it may be the better qualified for introduc-
tion to an enlarged existence.
It is true, that in this state all intelligence
that is not instinctive or intuitive is received only
through the body, but yet our reason possesses
perceptions of truth which sensation could never
have conveyed, and all our reflections concerning
our nature terminate in the conclusion which re-
velation warrants_.-that the soul dies not. Even
the lower creatures, down to creeping things, are
endowed with knowledge, which they acquire not
by the use of their senses. No sooner do they
burst from their "procreant cradle" than instinct
with skill they seek their happiness in the right
path, as if directly illuminated by divine guidance.
Why then should man be without this guidance in
his instinctive endeavours after his proper enjoy-
ment and in the possession of permanent blessed-
ness? There is a light which, in the hope, lightens
every man that cometh into the world.
In pursuing our theme it behoves us, who pro-
fess to be Christians, not to disregard the source
from whence we derive our religion, but as far as
we can, to conduct our inquiries as if we really
felt the force of those truths which we profess to
believe. Believers in revelation are not only pre-
served from the misery of the sceptic, but excited
to larger inquiries than he. The man of faith
INTRODUCTION. 7
must be a thinking man, for he infers from facts,
and is directed as well as encouraged in his re·
searches after every kind of truth ; since the book
that secures his faith, often supplies the subject
and also indicates the proper direction of rational
study. Here we learn our origin and our end;
but without it mankind would have continued
unable to discover either why, or whence they had
their being. The Bible indeed finds the same
faults with this world that common sense does,-
sin, pain and death are in it; but then in the
Bible only do we discover a promise of a perfect
remedy for evil, in the re-adjustment of moral
and material elements by God in man.
The sublimest and most interesting thoughts
expressed in language, are contained in the
Genesis given by Moses. In this we find that
the production of man was the finishing stroke to
creation-the Creator's especial thought, the final
end of the six days' work. This earth appears to
have been furnished for him by the creative word
which said, "let light be," and light was. Man
was then brought into being to behold His glory
who formed our nature expressly in correspond-
ence with Deity : "in the image of God created
he him*. And as the dust was fashioned by the
* We have divine authority t'or understanding this expression
to denote the moral excellenCe and dominion with which man Willi
endowed.-Eph. iv. 24: Col. iii. 10.
8 INTRODUCTION.
immediate touch of Jehovah's finger, the human
structure took the impress of Divinity. That this
form of earthly mould and heavenly meaning
might not remain like the temple without its in-
dwelling glory, God breathed within man's body
the abiding spirit of various lives, and thus also
illumined him with the moral reflection of the
divine character. The Lord God formed man of
the dust of the ground, and breathed into his
nostrils .the breath of life; and "man became a
living soul." In these words we have a distinct
announcement that life and mind did not manifest
themselves as the organization of its structure
proceeded, but that vitality and intelligence were
superadded, in connection with a separate exist-
ence directly imparted from Jehovah, and there-
fore in immediate relation with Him.
Thus man walked forth in his paradise at once
the representative and the worshipper of Love,
and Light, and Power, connecting the visible with
the invisible worlds in his own person, and by
the union of spirit with matter, feebleness with
perfection, exhibiting the glorious mystery of
creation,-Omnipotence revealed iu contradic-
tions reconciled. Man is the grand contradiction
-a compound of paradoxes; for he is constituted
not only of opposites, but of contraries. In study-
ing ourselves, therefore, we become intimate with
the greatest difficulties and the greatest interests.
INTRODUCTION. 9
As before observed, the co-existence of mind
with matter in one being is quite beyond our
comprehension but not beyond our knowledge,
for we experience the fact. The reason of our
compound constitution is, simply, that the Great
Spirit has willed our adaptation to a physical
world, from whence we are to derive intelligence
and enjoyment. We find, however, that our minds
are governed by laws that have nothing to do
with material organization; for our sense of right
and wrong, truth and falsehood, virtue and vice,
has no relation to bodily structure, but as the
vehicle and instrument of mind. We conceive
ideas, combine, reason, not accor4i.ng to atomic
affinities, but to spiritual associations. We love,
hope, fear, if not irrespective of external impres-
sions, at least without their continuance. Above
all, we retain amidst the changes of our bodies
and the shifting variety of decay around us, a
distinct consciousness of our own identity, and
an intuitive conviction, as far as reason is awak-
ened, that we hold our faculties and endowments,
not from the fortuitous action of nature, as a
blind power, but from the purpose of God as an
informing spirit, in whom we live, and move, and
have our being for ever.
Whatever will tend to confirm our confidence
in this position will add to our happiness, and it
is hoped that the examination of facts which illus-
B3
10 INTRODUCTION,
trate our nature, will constrain us as with the
force of a rational necessity, practically to ac-
knowledge our dependance, while it encourages
our reliance, on Him who remembers we are
dust and breathes on us his spirit. The highest
thought is of eternal Being. All real adoration
is the feeling of a life beyond sense, and which
organization cannot contain nor manifest, much
less produce. It is the proceeding spirit acknow-
ledging in love the parent spirit; it is the com-
munion of the Father and the Son ; an entrance
into the glory which was before the world. From
everlasting to everlasting, thou art, 0 Infinite !
The human mind would sink crushed by the
burden of the vast thought if thou didst not in
humanity sustain thy creature. Enable us, 0
God, to reflect upon thine image in reverence, and
to honor thy majesty as revealed in the fearfully
wondrous frame and in the moral excellence of
man.
Every sentient creature is characterized by its
dispositions. The provision made for its enjoy-
ment, and also the peculiarities of its physical
endowment, must be in keeping with its will. If,
then, we would ascertain the true dignity and
destiny of man, we must study the scope and
power of that principle in him, and how it is in-
fluenced; for in fact the mind or soul is thus
especially manifested in the body. We may con-
INTRODUCTION, 11
veniently regard the power of the soul in the fol-
lowing respects :-
1st. As manifested in the senses, in attention,
and in memory.
2ndly. In the influence _of mental determina-
tion and emotion over the vital functions of the
body.
,f
...
THE
POWER OF THE SOUL OVER THE BODY.
PART I.
THE SOUL, AS MANIFESTED IN THE USE OP THE SENSES,
IN ATFENTION AND IN MEMORY.
THE POWER
OP
THE SOUL OVER THE BODY.
CHAPTER I.
THE ADAPTATION OP THB BODY TO THB SOUL.
THROUGHOUT that part of creation within our
scope, we behold evidences of infinite wisdom ;
and whenever effects are traced to causes, and
formation is considered in respect to its design,
we discover a perfect adaptation ofmeans to ends,
-the apparatus being exactly suited to its pur-
pose, without defect, without redundancy.
When surveying any living creature, we natu-
rally inquire, why it is provided with such and
such peculiarities of organization. In answer to
the inquiry we learn that every peculiarity of for-
mation is adapted to some instinct of the creature,
or accommodates it the better to the circumstances
in which the Creator has placed it. Monstrosities
rarely happen, and only confirm the rule, for they
16 THE ADAPTATION OF
too occur according to certain laws, which prove
still more clearly than could be proved without
them, to our intellect at least, that the will, which
designs, and the power which executes, calculated
OIJ. the disorder that created will produces, and set
bounds to its interference which cannot be passed.
We cannot with propriety say that one complete
animal is nobler than another, because of any
prominence of particular organs as compared with
its whole body; nor is one creature to be called
monstrous or ugly, in comparison with another,
for each is exactly fitted to its place in the grand
scale of existence, and therefore all are alike beau-
tiful, as exhibiting the wonderful wisdom and
beneficence of God. But creation is graduated,
and every creature has its proper place. The to-
tality of an animal's framework indicates its posi-
tion on the scale of being. If we measure man
according to this standard, his superiority is at
once evident. Not that his body is distinguished
by any marked excellence in those qualities which
empower brutes, but by the symmetrical accord-
ance of all its parts for superior purposes, under
the direction of a will that cannot truly sympathize·
with lower natures.
" Os homini sublime dedit, COllumque tueri,
Jllllllit et erectos ad sidera tollere vultus."
This is a fine heathen sentiment, but not quite
true ; for the eye of man was intended to search
THE BODY TO THE SOUL. 17
the earth as well as the heavens, and to behold
Omnipotence in every part of the universal tem-
ple. The face is indeed the index of thought and
sentiment, the medium through which mind most
.vividly communicates with mind, but yet the
whole body acts together in the full expression of
feeling:-
" Totamque infuaa per artus,
Mens agitat molem."
Let us imagine a human figure as if now stand-
ing before us, like the Apollo of the intellectual
Greeks when he gazed on the smitten Python.
We seem to see in this statue the visible idea or
image of the man who aspired to be a god. At
length he stands triumphant over the temptation
aud the tempter; content in the consciousness of
a renovated and perfect humanity. Passion and
intellect are blended in calm unison; knowledge
and affection are at peace ; the attributes of feel-
ing, thought and action, are combined in one at-
titude, expressive of the delicate might of a living
spirit. The mind reigns in that body. The in-
carnate intelligence manifestly controls matter by
his will, and appears as if conscious of being al-
ways resisted, yet never vanquished; but, inspired
by the apprehension of his right, as vicegerent
of Almightiness, he subdues resistance and sur-
mounts difficulties by perseverance in the use of
strength, that continually and spontaneously in-
18 ~E ADAPTATION OP
creases with every opposition to his purpose. Such
is man, when sustained by the divinity which stirs
within him; the only creature on which the Crea-
tor has shadowed divine perfections, and therefore
he is to be honored even in his ruin, for when his
affections, and faculties are restored, as they may
be, to divine sympathy, he shall again stand up-
right, the conqueror of the mighty serpent.
We have looked upon man in his highest aspect,
" God-like, erect, with native honour clad,
In naked majesty."
But even if we regard him in his most unculti-
vated condition, where the intellect is left to the
freedom of the elements, and educated only by
the forces of corporeal necessity, we yet shall see
much indication of his dignity.
The wild barbarian awakes to action, and every
movement speaks of thought. He is evidently
influenced by a world within him, where reflec-
tion and anticipation present incessant business
for his spirit, and he will not live in the solitude
of his own perceptions, but he seeks the higher
pleasures of sociality and fellowship. His ideal
existence is as actual as that of his body and
crowded with emotions. Memory and imagina-
tion people a world of their own, in the busy
scenes of which he dwells more thoroughly and
intimately than in that which is present to his
outward senses. And he reveals his inner life by
THE BODY TO THE SOUL. 19
living language. He talks of what he feels, not
only in words but also in the lineaments of his
face, and while he speaks he stretches out his
hand towards some object which may illustrate
his words, or interest his companion, and thus by
the very act of pointing, at once declares himself
superior in endowment to every earthly creature,
except his fellow-man; for no other holds rational
discourse, or even possesses that simple adjunct
to human intelligence, the power of distinctly
and designedly pointing, to direct the attention of
another.
We say then that the existence of a resident
and superintending mind, a thinking principle,
an intelligent spirit operating upon the body, in
it, not of it, might be inferred from the extemal
form alone; and the manner of every movement
and expression of that form, proves how perfectly
it was adapted for the use of a guiding and domi-
nant spirit, pervading, informing, and employ-
ing it.
As the habits of certain animals have been cor-
rectly inferred from the examination of detached
portions of their structure, so from almost any
part of man's body we may at once discover that
it was constructed for the accommodation and
delight of an intellectual being. Even those dis-
advantages, in regard to the coarser physical
qualities which lower animals possess, act but as
20 THE ADAPTATION OP
stimuli to the human faculties, which supply all
deficiencies, and confer the best accommodation.
In fact, the excellence of man consists in the
.delicate adaptation of his structure, for without
this the reasoning principle would be out of place.
He is the most delicate creature on the earth, but
yet he is not formed to hide himself. He must
indeed be intrusted at first to the tenderest care
of affection, to be nurtured into strength enough
to endure the action of the elements amidst which
he is destined to dwell, yet he alone comes forth
from his feeble infancy, erect, the observed, and
the observer, with a mind to plan, and a hand to
execute. The instrument is adapted to the agent
-"Non enim manus ipste homines artes docuerunt,
sed ratio."* But if man's body had been consti-
tuted on any inferior model, art and science could
have had no outward existence, and reason must
have been imprisoned, in brute form. Supposing
human knowledge then possible, man could only
have been manifest as a subtle beast. "It is
mind that makes the body rich," but the soul
needs a corresponding body, and God has wedded
them together, in perfect suitability to their pre-
sent business and abode.
How inconceivably exact must be the adapta-
tion of the body to the purposes of the mind I
The organs of sense and of action so instanta-
* Galen.
THE BODY TO .THE SOUL. 21,
neously and perfectly obey the demands of the
will that in many of our most complicated and
ordinary movements we are unconscious of having
willed to employ the body, but it seems to have
consented to anticipated intention in such a man-
ner that we feel identified with it. So complete
is the accordancy and assent between a healthy
body and a sensual mind that somepersons scarcely
acquire a thought that takes them out of the body,
they live only in its sensations. The machine
which they actuate is confoundedwith themselves,
because it so admirably obeys their wills that they
conceive no other enjoyment, and reach not so far
as an idea of moral or spiritual excellence when
habituated to the pleasures of sense.
While the system is in the highest state of
health, that is, when best adapted for use, so great
is the enjoyment of this perfect fitness that we
can scarcely avoid putting our limbs into action,
or as we say e:nJrting ourselves, hence dancing
becomes the natural expression of healthy glad-
ness, for on these vigorous occasions we cannot
meditate, but our life and thought are altogether
bent on muscular activity, or the use of the body
irrespective of reflection. This happy activity is
beautifully exemplified in healthy children, whose
business appears to be merely to enjoy action and
unmeaning pastime, and to exercise the senses
simply for the pleasure thus afforded.
22 THE ADAPTATION OF
But how exquisitely the spirit becomes visible
in every attitude and every feature of happy chil-
dren ! We read their thoughts and feelings as
perfectly as if their souls were our own. And
were our minds and bodies attuned by love, we
should find ourselves impelled by sympathy to
join their sport. Like musical instruments of
marvellous construction, we are so strung that
the air which causes vibration, seems to breathe
but in the music, and one string is no sooner
struck than all awake in harmony. And we are
attuned to each other so perfectly, that under
similar circumstances of health~ being free from
the dull pressure of care, all humanity will per-
haps respond to one heart•
.But the science and execution of music affords
us still better illustration. How nice a structur¢
must be called into play when a skilful pianist, by
aid of an additional instrument fitted to his con-
venience, executes an intricate piece of music, not
only in a wonderfully rapid succession of mecha-
nical movements, but also in a manner fully to
express the very feelings of his soul! But how
much more forcibly is the same power manifested
in the human voice I By it the spirit speaks not
only an infinite variety of articulated sounds, but
more marvellously still by the modulated language
of tones, so as to excite into extacy or agony,
every sympathy within us.
..
THE BODY TO THE SOUL. 23
What is it that so skilfully touches this instru-
ment ? What is it that enjoys as well as actuates,
receives as well as communicates, through this in-
scrutable organization ? It is as we have said the
soul or spirit, without which this body were more
unmeaning than a statue, and only fit, as it would
tend, to decay. It is the soul which animates the
features and causes them to present a living
picture of each passion, so that the inmost agita-
tions of the heart become visible in a moment,
and the wish that would seek concealment betrays
its presence and its power, in the vivid eye, while
the blood kindles into crimson with a thought
that burns along the brow. It is this which dif-
fuses a sweet serenity and rest upon the visage,
when our feelings are tranquillized, and our
thoughts abide with heaven, like ocean in a calm,
reflecting the peaceful glories of the cloudless
skies. This indwelling spirit of power blends our
features into unison and harmony, and awakes
"the music breathing from the face," when in
association with those we love, and heart answer-
ing to heart, we live in sympathy, while memory
and hope repose alike in smiles upon the bosom
of enjoyment. It is a flame from heaven purer
than Promethean fire, ·that vivifies and energizes
the breathing form. It is an immaterial essence,
a being, t}lat quickens matter and imparts life,
sensation, motion, to the intricate framework of
24 THE ADAPTATION, ETC,
our bodies; which wills when we act, attends
when we perceive, looks into the past when we
reflect, and not content with the present, shoots
with all its aims and all its hopes into the futurity
that is for ever dawning upon it.
CHAPTER II.
THE ORGANS OF SENSE ARE THE INSTRUMENTS OF THE
MIND.
PROBABLY none but uncreated mind can act with-
out being acted on, at least facts appear to de-
monstrate that the human spirit has no originating
power, but is moved only as it is impressed by
circumstances and extraneous influences. Hence
the necessity of its being supplied with instru-
ments and senses, organized in keeping with the
sphere which it inhabits, in order that its capacity
for action might be elicited and manifested by
agents appropriate to its innate functions and
endowments.
We are accustomed to say the eye sees, the
ear hears, the finger feels, and so forth, but such
language is incorrect, and only admissible because
we are accustomed to the· error, and our expres-
sions are necessarily accommodated to ignorance,
or are not equal to our knowledge. The eye itself
no more sees, than the telescope which we hold
before it to assist our vision. The ear hears not
any more than the trumpet of tin, which the deaf
c
26 THE ORGANS OF SENSE
man directs towards the speaker to convey the
sound of his voice, and so with regard to all the
organs of sense. They are but instruments which
become the media of intelligence to the absolute
mind, which uses them, whenever that mind is
inclined or obliged to employ them. Or, perhaps,
they might be more correctly represented as the
seats and proper places of impressions, because of
their exact adaptation to external influences. They
bear such relations to the condition of the mate-
rials which surround ns, as, in the healthy state
of their functions, always to present true and real
intimations of circumstances within the range of
their faculty or formation.
The slightest examination of the organs of sense
will, however, convince an observer that they are
constructed merely as instruments. What is the
eye but a most perfect optical contrivance? It
is composed of the best materials, arranged in the
best manner, for the purpose of rendering illumi-
nated objects not only visible, but tangible, for
sight can be demonstrated to be a finer sort of
feeling, the colours which represent distance and
·shape, being brought in contact with the nerve,
and with that which perceives in the nerve. The
cornea is a most perfect convex glass, set dis-
tinctly in its proper place and proper manner,
with the same design, but with far greater preci-
sion than the optician sets his crystal to aid the
ARE THE INSTRUMENTS OF THE MIND. 27
sight. The various translucent membranes, the
lens, the humours of different densities, and even
the blood, abruptly made transparent in its pas-
sage, and much besides, too minute to be now
mentioned, conspire to transmit and duly refract,
and regulate the rays of light, so that they may
fall upon the exact point, and th(lre present to
the observant spirit, a perfect picture of the ma-
jestic, the beautiful, the glorious; and bring into
our being those impressions which preserve our
interest and sympathy with universal nature. No
mechanism invented by man, was ever so well
contrived or 80 well placed,. or could move so pre-
cisely as required under the action of its pulleys.
No servant was ever 80 obedient; for, without a
conscious effort of the will, without a command,
and as if instinct with the .mind that employs it,
this exquisite apparatus, which is both a camera-
obscura and a telescope, instantaneously takes
the direction of a desire and accommodates itself
to the range of distance, and the degree of light.
And the ear is a complete acoustic instrument,
with its exterior trumpet to collect sounds, and
its vibrating tympanum, and its chamber and
winding passages, and its dense fluids, so well
calculated to propagate and modify vibrations,
and its minute and sensitive muscles, to act as
cords to brace the drum, just as required, and to
move the jointed piston, which regulates the water
c2
28 THE ORGANS OP SENSE
in its canals, according to circumstances, and the
whole built up within a stone-like structure, which .
prevents the sound from being wasted. There is
much of wisdom in the arrangement of this won-
derful living instrument, as indeed in others also,
the meaning of which human sagacity cannot dis-
cover, but this much however can always be as-
certained, the purpose is to bringthe mind into
contact with that which it would know.
The senses moreover correspond together, and
thus enable the mind to correct the impressions
of one by those of the others, in such a manner
as, by their united operation to obtain full and
accurate intelligence concerning the surrounding
world.
The well-known case which the philosophic
Cheselden has related, affords a decisive experi-
ment, agreeing as it does with many others, in
proof that the information derived from the sense
of sight requires to be corrected by information
from different sources, but that when the habit of
seeing is established under this correction, vision
continues to suggest the true relations of objects
to each other.
A young gentleman, who had no remembrance
of ever having seen, was couched and received his
sight, but when he first saw he could not judge of
distances, but thought all visible objects touched
'his eye, as what he felt touched his skin. He
ARE THE INSTRUMENTS OP THE MIND. 29
expected that pictures would feel like what they
represented, and was amazed when he found those
parts which by light and shadow appeared round
and uneven, felt flat like the rest, and asked
which was the lying sense, feeling or sight. When
shewn a miniature of his father, he acknowledged
the likeness, but desired to know how it could be
that so large a face,. could be expressed in so
small a compass, saying it seemed as impossible
to him as to put a bushel into a pint. The things
he first saw he thought extremely large, and upon
seeing larger things, those first seen he conceived
less, not being able to imagine any lines beyond
the bounds he beheld. He could not conceive
that the house could look larger than the room
he was in. He said every new object was a new
delight. On first beholding a large prospect his
pleasure was beyond expression, and he called it
a new kind of seeing.
These details prove, that sight does not ori-
ginally inform us respecting the real distance or
magnitude of objects, but that we learn these
things from the experience and help of our other
senses; therefore the mind exercises an inde-
pendent judgment in comparing their impressions,
a power which the senses themse}ves could never
have conferred.
CHAPTER III.
THE MIND IS NOT THE RESULT OP SENSATION.
THERE is a disposition.to exercise the senses from
the enjoyment afforded by the act, but this dispo-
sition of course resides, not in the organs, but in
the mind, being the result of our mental consti-
tution, in connection with nerves through which
we discover suitable objects. The mind is excited
by whatever is appropriate to it, and the senses
are stimulated in sympathy with the mind, be-
cause they are its organs, the mean.s of action
and enjoyment. Whatever pleases the mind the
senses seek : the eye, light; the ear, modulated
sound; the smell, fragrance; the taste, flavour ;
the touch, degrees of pressure; and the muscles
possess an agreeable sense of their own, arising
probably from their power of adjusting the body
for the accommodation of the mind, in the ex-
ercise of the sepses generally.
What is meant by this adjustment will appear
when we reflect on the machinery which is con-
sentaneously set in motion in the act of using
THE lUND IS NOT THE RESULT1 ETC, 31
either of the senses, but more especially perhaps
sight and touch. It is not enough that the sen-
sation of a visible object should be present in the
eye ; in ordet' to look so as to examine an object,
it is also necessary that the will be exerted. The
first sensation of an object only serves as a
stimulus to the appetite of the mind, to rouse
its attention, and excite the will, which, acting on
the muscles, prepares the eye for further scrutiny,
and at the same time places all the body in keep-
ing with the state and desire of the mind, so that
we can generally see from the attitude of a person
how his eye is engaged.
The muscular consent between the eye and the
rest of the body, particularly the hand, is well
shewn in fencing, where every movement is guided
not by looking to see how the weapon should be
directed, but by fixing your eye on your anta-
gonist's eye : his intention there expressed, and
acting as it were through your own eye on your
nervous system, causes an instantaneous and in-
stinctive adjustment of your body accordingly.
The same thing is exhibited also in the precision
with which the savage hunter learns to direct his
arrow, and the politer sportsman to point his gun.
Here let us enquire-does organization produce
the consciousness of self? No; for we feel or-
ganization to be distinct from ourselves. The
child just beginning to use its senses, never
82 THE MIND IS NOT
confounds the objects of sense with itse~ and
its own body is but one of these objects. The
individual soul, which, by experience and suit-
able organs, manifests intellect or mind, not only
perceives the sensations and interprets them ac-
cording to past experience, but it has an influ-
ence in modifying their impressions, and intensi-
fying their effects according to certain laws which
regulate its connection with the senses.
Mind has the power of distinguishing sen-
sations and of causing one sense to be employed
in preference to another, and, to a certain extent,
of correcting the impressions made on them all.
The brain, connecting the senses together, enables
the mind to employ them in relation to each
other, and to compare sensation with sensation as
regards time, space, and degree of force ; so that
whatever interrupts or disturbs the regular func-
tion of this connecting medium of all sense, the
brain, necessarily causes the mind to perceive and
to compare, in a disordered manner, as in deli-
rium, insanity, and idiotism, or else the brain
becomes so diseased that it altogether ceases to
convey impressions from without, and thus per-
chance allows the mind to proceed in its activity
with the consciousness of past ideas which it con-
tinues to combine, according to the laws of its
being, perhaps irrespective of physical association.
However necessary the intelligence derived from
•
THE RESULT OP SENSATION. 38
the senses may be, to the development of mental
capacity in this state of existence, it is yet evident
that mind is not the result of sensation, nor,
as to the origin of its peculiar faculties, at all
dependent on the power of the senses, for in
order to use them aright and to obtain correct
impressions through them, there must exist inhe-
rently, and antecedently an ability in the mind
or thinking principle, to attend and to compare. ·
What is experience but the amount of impres-
sions received by the mind? It contributes n~­
thing to the mental improvement, but as the
mind possesses the power of judging; a power
which no experience can itself confer, any more
than the objects presented can produce the will
that chooses between them.
It is the prerogative of the thinking soul, to
learn by observation; that is, to employ the senses
and to judge by analogy. But this implies that
a reasoning being is attending as soon as the
senses are brought into exercise, and that it is
prepared to work as soon as it finds materials
to work with. Facts prove the truth of this po-
sition. According to the nature of the mind
residing in any body,-supposing of course the
body in health and fitted for it,-so will be the
exhibition of that mind. Its experience can never
alter its nature. The education of the senses
can never create a new mind. A brute can
c8
84 THE HIND IS NOT
acquire no notion of moral truth by training,
but a human soul is always rational, and from its
earliest :tnanifestation in the body, always reasons
or infers correctly according to the extent of its
knowledge. "The child is father of the man."
Though the senses which it uses are no better
than a brute's, how vastly superior the result of
their employment I The human being sees in-
tuitively beyond sense, and venerates the unknown
which the known indicates; and while experience
administers to hope, chooses not merely according
to appetite, but to conviction, for what he believes
determines his actions; and as his reason consents
to truth, without demanding any other demon-
stration than its fitness, so he lives in the enjoy-
ment of what he expects as well as in what he
realizes.
We must live by faith. We must trust though
we know that our senses often deceive us; we must
still rely, for our perceptions of sensible objects
depends on them. Moreover we naturally believe
what cannot be demonstrated to our senses, for
reason and conscience rest on convictions derived
from a higher source.
There is a correspondence or consent between
the mind and the nerves of sensation. The nerves
being _disordered, false impressions are received.
Experience may correct them but it often happens
that she is incompetent, or the defect may have
THE RESULT OP SENSATION. 35
been congenital, then the mind manifests itself in
a defective manner, and is said to be either idiotic
or insane. The due relation between the senses
and the soul, the link that connects them is broken,
and the thinking principle continues to act ac-
cording to the power of the machinery with which
it is associated, and according to its innate energy
and consciousness. If that part of the nervous
system be diseased in which the impressions of
sense combine, that is the central brain, then the
faculties of attention and comparison are of course
interfered with, or prevented from acting in proper
order, and the individual so a1Dicted is insane.
This disorder being removed, the man is restored
to his senses; for the mind itself cannot beinsane,
but it is always able to act aright with a correct
organization, or when there is no interference to
disturb its functions. How far the mind may be
wilfully perverted, and attracted from the truth it
knows, and thus become what may be called mo-
rally insane, will perhaps appear as we proceed.
That the indwelling mind is ever ready to act
in connection with a proper state of nerve, is beau-
tifully exhibited in many cases of recovery from
partial idiotism, in which the faculties and affec-
tions have lain dormant from infancy, till some
circumstance has altered the state of the brain so
as to bring the mind into its proper relation with
the exterior wo:rld, and enable it to manifest the
86 THE MIND IS NOT
wonderful endowments of reason by observing and
companng.
Probably in cases of idiotism, sensation is con-
fused as well as the reflective faculties. There is
an unsteadiness in the use of the senses, and an
indeterminateness not unlike what we witness in
persons who are overpowered by accnmulated ner-
vous excitement. It is manifestly a disease of
the nerves, a disorder in the instruments of sen-
sation, which hinders the mind from attending
and correctly applying them. Hence the soulless
countenance, the rude mixtnre of instincts and
passions, the unmeaning mirth, the transient fear,
the gustly violence. This confusion of faculties
and feelings has sometimes been reduced to order
even in hereditary idiotism. Light has touched
the chaos into beauty ; a slight interference has
awakened the torpid soul; an accident has re-
moved the obstruction between the intellect and
the world: a fracture of the skull, a fit of frenzy,
a fever has cured the disease, and the idiot has
suddenly become an observant, reasoning man.
;Beings whose rudimentary senses seemed inca-
pable of obedience to will, too restless to allow
th~ soul proper intercourse with external nature,
without moral sentiments, without affections,-
mere instinctive animals, without associates in
creation, yet possessing some unimaginable hap-
piness in their own confused sens~tions and pro-
•
THE RESULT O:P SENSATION. . 37·
pensities,-even such imbecile and worse than
brutal enormities have, by the philosophic and
Christian philanthropist, been brought into rela-
tion to other beings, redeemed from the dominion
of disgusting appetites, and caused to seek intel-
ligent enjoyment in ·loving and pleasing their
instructors and friends. Many such idiots have
been thus rendered visibly and mentally human
by the skilful patience with which M. Voisin, at
the Bicetre, Paris, has employed means to attract
their attention to an associating succession of
objects. If, then, the prison of the spirit has by
such causes been converted into its pleasant
palace, what shall hinder the soul of an idiot from
enjoying at death its emancipation from the im-
peding body and its entrance on a commodious
abode. Surely the intelligent principle within
them requires only to be put into proper relation
with the world it inhabits to develope its capacity
for knowledge and happiness.
The same important truth is demonstrated iu
those instances in which some deficiency in the
organization of the senses has shut np the soul
from the enjoyment of its appropriate objects, as
iu the cases of deaf mutes. And is not ignorance
deaf, blind, dumb, unfeeling? And is not edu-
cation the quickener of the soul, enabling it to
burst from the grave to see, taste, handle the
things of life ?
38 THE MIND IS NOT, ETC,
What a delightful and heavenly occupation is
it to set at large an immortal spirit from silent,
speechless, dark, imprisonment I How ecstatic
the interest to watch the gladdening being gra-
dually liberated from its living tomb, and brought
into rapturous sympathy with other souls! The
person who can peruse Dr. Howe's narrative of
Laura Bridgman's case without emotion, such as
a father feels in regarding his own new-born child,
which he loves because created in his own like-
ness, is not a Christian, and has not yet had a
glimpse of the vision which reveals the beauty
and value of a human spirit.
CHAPTER IV.
ILLUSTRATIONS OP THE VALUE OP THE SENSES AND
OBSERVATIONS ON THEIR USE.
LAURA. BRIDGMANWas completely deprived ofsight
and hearing at an early period of childhood. She
was born in Hanover, New Hampshire, on the
21st December, 1829. Doctor Howe, her great
benefactor and friend, has published an exceed-
ingly interesting narrative, from which, or rather
from that part of it given in Dickens' "American
Notes," the following paragraphs are extracted:
"As soon as she could walk she began to explore
the room and the house; she became familiar
with the form, density, weight and heat of every
article she could lay her hands upon. She fol-
lowed her mother, and felt her hands and arms
as she was occupied about the house ; and her
disposition to imitate led her to repeat everything
herself; she even learned to sew a little and to
knit. At this time I was so fortunate as to hear
of the child, and immediately hastened to Hanover
to see her, I found her with a well-formed figure;
a strongly marked nervous-sanguine temperament,
40 THE VALUE OP THE SENSES
a large and beautifully shaped head ; and the
whole system in healthy action. The parents
were easily induced to consent to her coming to
Boston, and on the 4th October, 1837, they
.brought her to the institution. After waiting
about two weeks, the attempt was made to give
her knowledge or arbitrary signs, by which she
could interchange thoughts with others. There
wu one of two ways to be adopted ; either to
go on to build up a language of signs which she
had already commenced herself, or to teach her
the purely arbitrary language in common use;
that is, to give her a sign for every individual
thing, or to give her a knowledge of letters by
combination of which she might express her idea
or the existence, and the mode and condition or
existence, of anything. The former would have
been easy but very ineffectual, the latter seemed
very difficult, but, if accomplished, very effectual.
I determined therefore to try the latter."
After describing the interesting process by which
he taught her to associate names with things, he
goes on to say " Hitherto the process had been
mechanical, and the success about as great as
teaching a knowing dog a variety of tricks. The
poor child had sat in mute amazement, and pa-
tiently imitated everything her teacher did; but
now the truth began to flash upon her; her intel-
lect began to work; she perceived that here was
AND OBS.EB.VA.TIONS ON THEIR USE. 41
a way by which she could herself make up a sign
of anything that was in her own mind, and shew
it to another mind, and at once her countenance
lighted up with a human expression ; it was no
longer a dog, or a parrot ; it was an immortal
spirit, eagerly seizing upon a new link of union
with other spirits I I could almost fix upon the
·moment when the truth first dawned upon her
mind, and spread its light to her countenance;
I saw that the great obstacle was overcome; and
that henceforward nothing but patient and per-
severing, but plain and straightforward efforts
were to be nsed."
At the end of the year a report of the case was
made of which the following is an extract. "It
has been ascertained, beyond the possibility of
doubt, that she cannot see a ray of light, cannot
hear the least sound, and never exercises her
sense of smell if she has any. Thus her mind
dwells in darkness and stillness, as profound as
that of a closed tomb at midnight. Of beautiful
sights and sweet sonnds, and pleasant odonrs she
has no conception, nevertheless she is as happy
and playful as a bird, or a lamb, and the employ-
ment of her intellectual faculties, or the acquire-
ment of a new idea, gives her a vivid pleasure,
which is plainly marked in her expressive features."
Describing the interesting process by which he
taught her to associate names with things, he
42 THE VALUE OP THE SENSES
goes on to say, "If she have no occupation she
evidently amuses herself by imaginary dialogues,
or by reealling past impressions ; she counts with
her fingers, or spells out names of things which
she has recently learned, in the manual alphabet
of the deaf mutes. In this lonely self-commu-
nion, she seems to reason, reflect, and argue.
But wonderful as is the rapidity with which she·
writes her thoughts upon the air, still more so is
the ease and rapidity with which she reads the
words thus written by another; grasping their
hands in hers, and following every movement of
their fingers, as letter after letter conveys their
meaning to her mind. It is in this way that she
converses with her blind playmates, and nothing
can more forcibly show the power of mind in forc-
ing matter to its purpose, than a meeting between
them. For if great skill and talent are necessary
for two pantomimes to paint their thottghts and
feelings by the movements of the body and the
expression of the countenance, how much greater
the difficulty when darkness shrouds them both,
and the one can hear no sound I When Laura is
walking through a passage-way with her hands
spread before her, she knows instantly every one
she meets, and passes them with a sign of recog-
nition, but if it be a girl of her own age, and es-
pecially if it be one of her favourites, there is
instantly a bright smile of recognition and a twin-
AND OBSERVATIONS ON THEIR USE. 48
ing ·of arms, a grasping of hands, and a swift
telegraph upon the tiny fingers."
Her mother came to visit her and the scene of
their meeting was an interesting one. "The
mother stood sometime gazing with overflowing
eyes, upon her unfortunate child, who, all un-
conscious of her presence, was playing about the
room. Presently Laura ran against her, and at
once began feeling her hands, examining her
dress, aud trying to find out if she knew her, but
not succeeding in this she turned away as from
a stranger, and the poor woman could not conceal
the pang she felt, at finding that her beloved
child did not know her. She then gave Laura
a string of beads which she used to wear at home,
which were recognized by the child at once, who
with much joy put them round her neck and
sought me eagerly, to say that she understood
the string was from her home. The mother now
tried to caress her, but poor Laura repelled her,
preferring to be with her acquaintances. Another
article from home was now given her, aud she
began to look much interested. After a while,
on her mother taking hold of her again, a vague
idea seemed to flit across Laura's mind that this
could not be a stranger; she therefore felt her
hands very eagerly, while her countenance as-
sumed an expression of intense interest; she be-
came very pale and then suddenly red; hope
44 THE VALUE OF THE SENSES
seemed struggling with doubt and anxiety, and
never were contending emotions more strongly
painted upon the human face. At this moment
of painful uncertainty, the mother drew her close
to her side and kissed her fondly, when at once
the truth flashed upon the child, and all mistrust
and anxiety disappeared from her face, as with an
expression of exceeding joy, she eagerly nestled
to the bosom of her parent, and yielded herself
to her fond embrace."
The subsequent parting between them showed
alike the affection, the intelligence, and the reso-
lution of the child. Laura accompanied her
mother to the door clinging close to her all the
way, until they arrived at the threshold, where
she paused and felt around to ascertain who was
near her. Perceiving the matron, of whom she
is very fond, she grasped her with one hand, hold.
iug on convulsively to her mother with the other,
and thus she stood for a moment; then she dropped
her mother's hand, put her handkerchief to her
eyes, and turning round, clung sobbing to the
matron, while her mother departed with emotions
as deep as those of her child.
She is fond of having other children noticed
and caressed by the teachers, and those whom
she respects ; but this must not be carried on too
far or she becomes jealous. She wants to have
her share, which, if not the lion's, is the greater
AND OBSERVATIONS ON THEIR USE, 45
part; and if she does not get it, she will say,
''My mother will love me., Her tendency to imi-
tation is so strong, that it leads her to actions
w'hich must be entirely incomprehensible to her,
and which can give her no other pleasure than
the gratification of an internal faculty. She has
been known to sit, for half an hour, holding a
book ·before her sightless eyes, and moving her
lips, as she (by the help of her fingers) has ob-
served other people do when reading. Her social
feelings and her .affections are very strong; and
when she is sitting at work, or at her studies by the
side of one of her little friends, she will break off
from her task every few moments and hug and
kiss them with an earnestness and warmth that is
touching to behold. When left alone she occupies
and apparently amuses herself, and seems quite
contented; and so strong seems to be the natural
tendency of thought to put on the garb of lan-
guage, that she often soliloquizes in the finger
language, slow and tedious as it is. But it is only
when alone, that she is quiet; for if she becomes
sensible of the presence of any one near her, she
is restless until she can sit close beside them, hold
their hand, and converse with them by signs. In
herintellectual characterit is pleasing to observe an
insatiable thirst for knowledge, and a quick per-
ception of the relations of things. In her moral
character it is beautiful ·to behold her continual
46 THE VALUE OP THE SENSES
gladness, her keen enjoyment of existence, her
expansive love, her unhesitating. confidence, her
sympathy with suffering, her conscientiousness,
truthfulness, and hopefulness."
So long a quotatio~ may need an apology, es-
pecially as the work from which it has been taken
is of a popular kind and extensively read. A
mere allusion however to facts which so power-
fully illustrate the subject of this work would not
suffice, and an abridgement would be an injus-
tice. Neither Dr. Howe nor the reader can desire
the curtailment of so triumphant a story, which
affords something very like a demonstration not
only that the mind depends not entirely on the
senses for its powers, but also that it possesses a
distinct existence and calls " the body mine not
me." Laura clearly evinces a moral perception of
right and wrong which could not have been taught
her but through an innate moral consciousness.
Indeed moral feeling cannot in any person have
sprung from mere conventional knowledge, but
from a consenting faculty independent on educa-
tion, acknowledging the fitness or unfitness, pro-
priety or impropriety, of any act in relation of
mind to mind. She was fond of having other
children noticed and caressed. She felt the worth
of love that delights in the happiness of associates,
and she appreciated others by the kindness which
their conduct evinced towards herself. She thus
AND OBSERVATIONS ON TREIB. USE. 47
acknowledged the true law of heaven, written on
her heart, not by man's teaching but by the fin-
ger of God. She could feel the force of the royal
commandment "Do unto other• tU you would they
1/wuld do to you," and needed only to know the
truth in order to approve it, because of its felt
fitness to her moral nature and her relationship
to other beings. There can be no reason there-
fore that she should be without religious feelings.
The true object of veneration can be presented to
her apprehension and that not merely as regards
her conceptions of infinite power and duration,
but also as to the moral attributes. At least she
could be made to understand her own sentiment
in a higher sense, and be as ready to say, " God
loves me" as that her mother loves her. Dr.
Fowler, of Salisbury, suggests that she might be
taught .the idea of infinity by her idea of estimat-
ing distance, and of eternity by time. Certainly
imagination would oppose no barrier to the ques-
tions-why should not this measure be prolonged
without end? why not this consciousness last for
ever? Here then we have through the same rea-
eon, the sublimest conception of a Newton en-
grafted on the soul of a de~ blind, speechless
girl, taught by the nature of her own feelings and
affections what materialists dare not claim for any
arrangement of matter-Infinite power and Eter-
nal love I
48 THE ~ALUE OP THE SENSES
Several illustrative and striking instances of a
similar kind are recorded. Dugal Stewart read an
interesting paper before the Royal Society con-
cerning a man fifty years of age, named James
Mitchell. He was without speech, sight and
hearing, but not without affections. His sister
could communicate her wishes to him, and the
wilfulness of his impetuous disposition yielded
with the docility of a little child to the touch of
her loving hand. His soul seems to have created
a diversified world of its own out of two elements,
for by feeling and smell alone he acquired his
sublime knowledge. These, his only senses, were
spiritually acute, because he intently observed
their intimations, and they furnished him with
almost supernatural intelligence. He evidently
inferred from feeling more than is commonly de-
rived from that faculty, and experienced exquisite
delight, as his actions expressed, from testing the
many tangible properties of b1>dies within his
reach. .His curiosity was unbounded, and his in-
vention fertile. He knelt at family prayers as if
he fully understood the meaning of the attitude.
And does it not necessarily express humility and
hope? Would not the bending of the knees, and
the lifting up of the hands, and the quiet waiting,
have indicated to him the idea of dependence on
some present but yet intangible power from whom
his own being was derived ? Our very frame-work,
AND OBSERVATIONS ON THEIR USE. 49
properly employed, teaches us of God's power
and goodness, and the act of assuming a devout
attitude is perhaps necessarily associated with re-
verential ideas, as the result of a natural law of
our physiological and mental existence, as long as
our minds are not possessed by impure ideas. The
position of weakness and want is an appeal to
Omnipotence, and we feel it to be so.
This man heard the voice of God in his heart,
more distinctly than many who receive the word
of life and immortality with the outward ear ;
and this word was visible to the sight of his
soul although his eye drank not the light. He
shrunk back in horror from the corpse of his fa-
ther, for he recognized death, and never would
rest in the room where the dead body had been
laid, but sometime afterwards he took a stranger
into the apartment, placed his hand a moment on
the pillow where his father's head had rested,
hurried his companion to the grave, and patted it
with his hand. This could not have been the ex-
pression of his hopelessness, but of his unbroken
relationship to a living father, and of his expecta-
tion of life beyond the tomb.
All the facts concerning the use of the senses
demonstrate, in short, that the soul possesses
intuitive endowments which the senses could not
confer, for the faculty of using them is mental,
and must of course precede their use.· Our sense11
D
50 THE VALUE OP THE SENSES
are constituted for this world and we enjoy it;
our undeveloped spirits are constituted in corres-
pondence with another world and we shall enter it.
" Even so the 80Ul in tbia contracted state,
Confined to the8e straight instruments of Benle,
More dull and D.IJTOWly doth operate;
At this hole hears, the eight may ray from thence,
Here taatea, there IIJIIellll ; but when abe'a gone from hence,
Like naked lamp abe is one shining sphere,
And round about hath perfect cognisance,
Whatever in her horison doth appear,
She is one orb of aenae : all eye, all touch, all ear."
Mooa, 1650.
The practical inference from facts concerning
the use of our senses is simply the propriety of
taking care to employ them suitably, to preserve
and improve them, since our social comfort and
influence as well as our intellectual advancement
depend in this world on their integrity. Their
destruction is the exclusion of knowledge and
wisdom at their only entrances. Delicacy of per-
ception is essential to acuteness of intellect, but
perception is perfected rather by the power and
habit of attention in the use of the senses than by
keenness of sensation.
After reading such beautiful narratives as that
of Laura Bridgman, how easy is it to imagine a
human spirit untainted by the loveless experi-
ences of this selfish world, and released from a
AND OBSERVATIONS ON THEIR USE. 51
body so stamped with the physical image of in-
herited moral disorder as to be incapable of any
distinct idea. We can imagine the soul of an
idiot for instance set free from the body, the tomb
in which Omnipotence had interred it, only the
better to show forth His glory. Doubtless many
a maternal heart that loves the mature idiot, as
the babe nestled in helplessness on the bosom, is
cheered by this thought. We may watch its en-
trance into a world of light, beauty, and love;
there to be educated by angels instead of a man,
even though such as he who trained Laura Bridg-
man, and who seemed indeed to have been actu-
ated by a feeling of angelic purpose and charity.
How rapid the progress of this unshackled soul in
divine learning I How rapturous its joy at the
wonders of wisdom everywhere visible I how un-
utterable the fulness of its sympathy with heavenly
affections! And what human child is not capable
of the same expansion amidst the genial influences
of heaven, though here it may have been shut up
in a body unfit for mind, or left at its birth appa-
rently to perish. The spirit was there struggling
for mastery. The germ of immortality was in it,
and that seed shall live and grow, in spite of visi-
ble death and decay, far above the evil that would
cling about its first tendencies to take root in this
earth's accursed soil.
By thus simply gazing in fancy on a naked soul
D2
52 THE VALUE OP THE SENSES
we see a ray of light opening into eternity; we
seem to get a glimpse at all the reconciling possi-
bilities which we so much need to explain to us the
reason of our present mysterious and incongrnons
existence. :But imagination would reveal a vision
too vast and glorious for our present sight. What
is possible we must not enquire. What we know
not now we shall know hereafte:r. Facts present
are intended to instructus, and if we duly observe
them they will be ours for ever, and we shall trace
their connexion with futurity. Rational inferences
from facts are not however mere airy surmises,
but solid truths; and every expectation, fairly
founded on experience, is of the nature of true
prophecy, being consistent with the universal rea-
son by which all events are ordered. Hence the
propriety of investigation, and hence the foresee-
ing sagacity which really scientific and truthful
inquiry always confers. Hence also the strength
of true religions convictions, and the assurance,
the evidence, of things not seen,-the substance
and reality of things hoped for. Any single truth,
followed up in all its relations, connects us with
all other truth. Like the light, however various
its manifestations, it is one in its nature, and it
emanates from one source, to which it necessarily
conducts the eye of all who will look off from the
objects it illuminates to the fountain of light itself.
Since truths are thus connected in one system,
AND OBSERVATIONS ON THEIR USE, 53
facts can never lead reason astray. She has power
to examine evidence and will not receive into her
belief any notion which is incompatible with ana-
logy. Not to compare impression with experience,
is not to reason, but to act like a certain naval
officer, holding a very responsible situation, who
was very fond of making telescopic observations.
Among other strange things he solemnly asserted,
that when Napoleon abdicated in 1814, he saw the
Emperor's figure in the sun. The next day the
figure appeared like a skeleton, and on the third
day the united colours of the allies had taken its
place. These appearances were regularly entered
in the log-book, and several of the crew were
ready to testify to the accuracy of the Captain's
observations. Such facts only prove that the
mind may be so deceived by its own desires as to
employ the senses to confirm its errors. Reason
then is a better and more certain guide than the
senses. She enables us to discern the folly of
believing according to sight. She looks deeper
than the superficies of things, and enjoys the
consciousness of realities belonging to a region
too bright for any eye but her own to gaze on.
She needs no telescope nor credulous witnesses to
confirm her faith in those truths which dwell in
the light she is accustomed to contemplate, and
which are commended to the mind of man by
their fitness to promote his advancement in know-
54 THE VALUE OP THE SENSES, ETC.
ledge, virtue and happiness. Had not man the
faculty of perceiving truths beyond the sphere of
sense he would be no better than an irresponsible
brnte, and the fact that man infers and travels
on in reason beyond material things ia itself a
proof that his mind ia not material.
CHAPTER V.
THE CONNEXION OF THE MIND WITH THE BRAIN, &e.
A PEW words concerning the definite nature of
matter will conduct us to a consideration of the
connexion of the mind with the brain.
The divisibility of matter has led to curious dis-
cussion, some saying that if matter cannot be
divided and subdivided without end and still
remain possessed of dimensions, etc., then it must
either become spirit or be annihilated. Such a
notion of matter is absurd, for it involves the
belief of one of three impossibilities : the con-
version of brute matter into a thinking principle,
its withdrawal from existence, or its capability of
being divided infinitely, that is, that every ima-
ginary particle of matter may be still divided
into as many parts as there are moments in eter-
nity I Such reasoners seem to forget that the
properties of matter are imposed by Omnipo-
tence. The will of His wisdom limits all things,
even the exercise of His own power. Those
materialists who have lost all idea of Deity in
their study of the physical world, might have
56 THE CONNEXION 01!'
learned a different conclusion even from the law
of chemical combination, by which the elements
unite to each other in certain proportions. Mat-
ter must have been made in definite atoms, or
how should different chemical elements always
combine by weight and measure, in exact order
and proportion,-so much of one to so much of
another, and in no other manner ? The reason
of this universal fact we can understand, when
we conceive that so many definite atoms of one
element combine with so many definite atoms of
another. If there be not definite atoms, how
can there be definite combinations ?
It has also been said, that God could cause
matter to think. Who can say yes? He has
not made us capable of thinking so. We cannot
conceive of such matter, for the words thought
and matter always present inconvertible and con-
tradictory ideas ; because our rational conscious-
ness assures us that thought has no analogy to
any known property of matter.
The mental unity, which each man calls I,
cannot exist as a part of the body; for what part
can we suppose to be a unit, either in structure,
function, or substance ? The soul, being one,
"spreads undivided, operates unspent," and con-
fers a kind of unity upon the organization which
it employs, by the act of using it for one purpose
at a time. It is but one will that enforces the
THE MIND WITH THJI: BRAIN, 57
obedience of the body, therefore no diversity or
division in the organization can destroy the im-
pression of our unity in volition and feeling.
"If joy or sorrow," observes Dr. Brown, "be an
affection of the brain, it is an affection of various
substances, which, though distinct in their own
existences, we comprehend under this single term.
If the affection therefore be common to the whole,
it is not one joy or sorrow, but a number of joys
and sorrows, corresponding with the number of
separate particles thus affected ; which, if matter
be infinitely divisible, may be divided into an
infinite number of little joys or sorrows, that
have no other relation to each other than the re-
lations of proximity, by which they may be
grouped together in spheres and cubes, or other
solids, regular or irregular, of pleasures or pains;
but by which it is impossible for them to become
one pleasure or pain."
There are several reasons for believing that the
Inind is not confined to the brain, such as the
propagation of the lower species of animals by
spontaneous division, each separate part having
a distinct will and special desires. Then again in
the generation of man,-the germ and fecun-
dating fluid, being productions of separate indi-
viduals, when brought together produce a new
individual in the likeness of the parents. Hence
the mental principle, if it be propagated and not
D3
58 THE CONNEXION OP
rather added to life, when this is developed in
certain organizations, must exist in other parts of
the body besides the brain, and be capable of
continuing in a latent state. H then the mental
principle be not limited to the brain, it follows
that the destruction of the brain does not neces-
sarily destroy the mind, but only prevents its
ordinary manifestation ; and if it be something
superadded to the body, there is no reason why
it should not exist with all its thoughts out of the
body.
M. Flourens's experiments are too numerous
and extensive to quote, but they prove that the
brain may be destroyed to a large extent, in any
direction, without destroying any of its functions;
but when the nervous mass, connecting the organs
of the senses and their sympathies together, is
divided, the manifestation of mind is interrupted.
It follows inevitably from his experiments, that
the faculty of perceiving and desiring one object
operates on the same organ as the faculty of per-
ceiving and comparing any other object, and
therefore the different affections are not functions
of different parts of the brain, as some phreno-
logists assert, but of that which nses the brain
under various states of impression, according to
its individual nature and experience.
In mental derangement,-attention, judgment,
memory, volition, are always more or less dis-
THE KIND WITH THE BRAIN. 59
ordered; and yet in the common phrenological
systems these are not represented in any part of
the brain, nor can be ; therefore these essential
principles of mental action must be something
more than functions of the brain. As far as I
can discover, by examination of a mnltitude of
recorded cases,-attention, judgment, memory,
and volition, may be all freely exercised by per-
sons in wliom many of the organs appropriated
by phrenologists to the intellect are destroyed or
disordered by disease ; but these operations of
mind become deranged whenever the nervous
centre is rendered incapable of performing its
function, in energizing the body, so as to hinder
the mind from putting itself and the senses into
proper relation to external influences and to each
other; therefore I infer that mental insanity, and
even what we call unconsciousness, are only the
resnlts of physical impediment to the united and
associated action of nerve under the operation of
mind, which is benevolently constituted to be
manifested to other minds only in connexion
with a certain state of organization.
Insanity, like certain dreams, seems generally
to be a kind of confusion, arising from a mix-
ture of memory with present impressions. The
consciousness, or the sense of each of the two
states that belong to the mind, is not kept per~
fectly distinct as it is in the sound condition of
60 THE CONNEXION OP
the brain, but the attention is divided between
remembered ideas and sensible realities, the one
being mistaken for the other. Of course it is the
same individual being which perceives the idea as
it exists in the mind, as a remembered thing, and
also the present impression conveyed at the mo-
ment through either of the senses.
One of the outrageous consequences of receiv-
ing the vulgar phrenological doctrines in their
full extravagance has been, an attempt to prove,
on scientific principles, that the soul itself is
double because the organs of the body are. But
we have seen that the unity of the mind is not
broken in consequence of its connexion with a
plurality of organs, and surely it as easily reasons
from the impressions of two brains as it sees with
two eyes. That the two grand divisions of the
braius are practically, as well as anatomically,
two brains, is proved by a number of cases in
which memory and the other functions of the
mind have been exercised without apparent im-
pairment, in persons who have had one hemi-
sphere so destroyed by disease as to leave no
portion of its substance in a natural state.
Tiedemann relates the case of a lunatic, who
was insane on one side of his head, and who ob-
served and corrected his insanity with the other.
Now it may be asked, who observed and cor-
rected the insanity ? The man certainly, not one
THE JrliND WITH THE BRAIN. 61
half of him. No doubt the diseased brain could
not be employed without occaaioning disordered
manifestation of mind; and, of course, aa long
as the other half of his brain waa awake and obe-
dient to the will, he could perceive and rebuke
the dreamy absurdities connected with the other.
He compared the diseaaed perception and action
with the healthy, and felt at once which was con-
sistent with waking experience ; and therefore,
by the bye, he could have been but half a lunatic
at the worst, and that only when the sound part
of his head was awake. Such cases, after all,
scarcely differ from those in which individuals
consciously labour under illusions of sense, and
are able to rectify false impressions by comparison
with true.
To argue from the duality of the organs, that
the mind, which is manifested through them, is
also dual, is really the same as to argue that two
minds are employed to see with two eyes or hear
with two ears. But consciousness is never d~uble,
and attention is never divided. Transition from
thought to thought and subject to subject, may
be more rapid than the light, but yet it is the
act of one and the same mind, to pass from
thought to thought, comparing one with another,
and drawing conclusions according to experience.
The mind haa doubtless double dealing enough in
the midst of its mixed motives and clashing in-
62 THE CONNEXION OP
terests ; but if we are to infer from hence that
there are two minds, it will puzzle the judge to
determine which mind is at fault and to be pun-
ished when the double-minded man commits a
murder ; for surely one half of him, at least, and
probably the more perfect, is innocent. How
unjust to hang a whole man for the will of only
one aide of him. Alas I the ingenious plea will
never save him, for common sense is single.
Surely it is a very one-sided reasoning which
reduces a man of science thus to do things by
halves, and divide the responsibility between his
two volitions. It is to be feared that morality
and religion will slip between them and find a
place in neither. Bishop Taylor shall pass sen-
tence on this subject : " He that will pretend
anything that is beyond ordinary, as he that will
say that he has two reasonable souls, or three
wills, is not to be confuted but with physic, or by
tying him to abjure his folly till he were able to
prove it."
Acuteness of faculty depends on the power of
maintaining attention; bnt this power is interfered
with by any disorder of the nervous system, be-
cause attention itself is an act of the mind, by
which the nervous system is put into a condition
to obey the soul, to receive impressions from with-
out, or to operate on muscle. The purpose for
which we possess a duality of organization appears
THE MIND WITH THE BRAIN. 63
then to be, that we may be able to attend the
longer without fatigue aud confusion; for we rest
the one side while employing the other. If, there-
fore, we are deprived of the use of an eye, for
instance, we the sooner find the other to fail,
unless it be the more sparingly engaged. This
principle is perhaps the secret of sympathy be-
tween the two sides of our bodies. Probably
the duality of the brain serves a purpose similar
to that of the duality of the senses. In some
relations to the mind, the double arrangement
enables us to continue thinking or acting conse-
cutively for a longer time than would otherwise
be possible : the one rests while the other acts,
and so on alternately, until both alike demand
the repose and refreshment to be obtained only
by sleep.
CHAPTER VI.
EVILS OP POPULAR PHRENOLOGY.
THE dangerous tendency of the popular notions
of phrenology, is most evident in the excuses it
supplies to those who seek apologies for their
moral depravity, and in the impediments it builds
up in the way of those inquisitive minds that ex-
pect to find in nature a substitute for revelation.
Many, convinced of the authority of the Bible,
yet seem to see so much of demonstration in this
pseudo-science at variance with the declarations
of that strong book, that they are constantly
hanging in suspense between the ruling faith, in
the spiritual origin of thought, and the vacillating
persuasion of the material beginning and end of
mind. With such persons, morality and Chris-
tianity are thus at stake. A thorough, uncom-
prmnising, common phrenologist must apologize
if he exhibit respect for either divine or human
government; since a will that owns no source but
in the accidents of a man's organization, can have
no relation to the law which demands obedience
for the common good.. What good can there be
to a mind unassociated, and indeed not existing,
EVILS OP POPULAR PHRENOLOGY. 65
but with the body, except the individual's physi-
cal good ? What community of interest can there
be except among spiritual beings, that reason,
love, and hate on principles and under laws alto-
gether distinct from any that regulate material
combinatiofis and results?
If degrees of criminality, as some men teach,
be determined by the relative development of por-
tions of our brains, and not according to the de-
gree of our knowledge and the kind of motives
presented to our reason, through our affections in
our training, then the language of the Great
Teacher is a violence to our nature,-" If I had
not come and spoken unto them, they had not had
sin : but now they have no cloke for their sin."
These words appear to have no meaning, unless
they signify that the extent of man's accountable-
ness is commensurate with the degree of h6ly
truth applied to his understanding.
Although some of the prominent advocates of
phrenology undoubtedly regard that somewhat
rickety science as affording irresistible arguments
in favour of the material theory of mind, and
hence infer that the soul perishes with the body ;
yet there are many more who, most heartily fol-
lowing their confident leaders, believe themselves
persuaded that phrenology is only a little less cer-
tain than the gospel ; and who nevertheless would
not for the world forego their convictions of a spi-
66 EVILS OP POPULA.R PHRENOLOGY,
ritual and immortal existence. Some have taken
a kind of middle ground, and while staunch in
their attachment to the Christian creed, yet ima-
gining they possess proof in phrenological facts
that the soul has no being without the body, they
have endeavoured to prove to their own satisfac..
tion that the Bible reveals not a word concerning
the distinct existence of the human spirit, but
rather that it declares an utter death of both soul
and body as derived from Adam. But then they
dare not deny that an etemal life and bodily re-
surrection are promised and secured in Christ;
so they are brought to ~he conclusion, that when
a man dies he is annihilated as an individual
being, and by the power of God is reproduced on
some future occasion. Dr. Elliotson, President
of the Phrenological Society, thus states, in the
Lancet, the position which he adopts : "By nature
all die, are utterly extinguished ; and in another
order of things, when the fashion of this world
shall have passed away and time shall be no more,
then in Christ, by the additional gift of God
granted through the obedience of Christ, but con-
sequently by a miracle, not by our nature, we
shall all again be made alive." If Christianity be
true, then science, that is, the classification of na-
tural facts, will never contradict it; for God must
be the author of both. The scientific part of
phrenology is therefore perfectly compatible with
.EVILS OP POPULAR PHRENOLOGY. 67
revelation. :But infidelity has deeply stained the
speculative and baseless assumptions which hasty
reasoners have attached to that as well as other
inquiries. It is however delightful to find that
men of the profoundest science most reverentially
acknowledge that man and Christianity are pro-
ductions of the same mind, and that there is
nothing in any science at variance with the New
Testament. Yet I cannot help thinking that Dr.
Elliotson, whom we must believe to be a sincere
Christian, on his own confession of hope for eter-
nal life through Jesus Christ, has followed a false
interpretation in the passage above quoted ; for
how is it to be reconciled with these texts?-
u Whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never
die." " This day shalt thou be with me in para-
dise." " We are confident and willing to be absent
from the body and to be present with the Lord."
" Fqr we !mow that if our earthly houae of this ta-
bernacle were dissolved, we have a horue not made
with handa, eternal in the heavens." These sen-
tences seem plainly to express the fact of a spiri-
tual existence, or being, at present distinct from
the body, and capable of existence at once in ano-
ther sphere. An array of arguments is not needed
-this is sufficient; unless such language, and the
abundance of the same kind in the New Testa-
ment, can be proved to mean the reverse of the
apparent meaning.
68 EVILS OP POPULAR PHRENOLOGY.
According to the newest fashion of phrenology,
it is asserted that intellect and emotion, which
imply will, operate through the brain as deve-
loped in the front of the head ; and that will,
associated with intellect, emotion, and instinc-
tive propensity, acts upon the little brain be-
hind, and part of the spinal chord, so as to excite
muscular motion and expression. These conclu-
sions may perhaps have been demonstrated, yet
all we can infer from such presumed facts is, that
the instruments or organs merely constitute ~he
media of communication between the world with-
out and the world within, the material creation
and the spiritual. Facts are really best explained
by supposing a unity of all the senses with the
brain, and that the spirit, or perceptive and will-
ing power, has faculties superadded, which are in
correspondence with different portions of the brain,
and therefore capable of being acted upon by it
and acting with it. But how do some phrenplo-
gists account for the operation of compound mo-
tives, such as we often feel? They say it is done
by a sort of sub-committee of the organs--by a
board of control. As Abernethy used to say,
" Pho, pho, if they go to a board of control, I
am content." They thereby at once declare the
necessity of a presiding and individual intelli-
gence, endowed with various faculties as the pro-
perties of one being, subject to pain or pleasure,
EVILS OP POPULA.R PHRENOLOGY. 69
repugnance or desire, according as the objects
presented to the mind through the senses are
adapted, or otherwise, to these faculties or endow-
ments, which are all associated with the will, in
as far as they are all connected with a sense of the
agreeable or disagreeable ; and their very exercise
consists in seeking the one and avoiding the
other.
Perceiving, thinking, willing. Meditate on
these things. What are they ? Look upon the
brain and think. Now put the idea of a brain
and your experience of thought and feeling toge-
ther; then say whether organization perceives, re-
flects, determines. Is thinking a.property of the
brain ? No : the brain possesses all its material
properties as well when dead as when living,
and is as much a brain when uninfluenced by
thought as when by it excited; therefore thinking
is not a property of the brain : for if the proper-
ties of a substance be destroyed, the substance it-
self is destroyed. Is the brain constituted to se-
crete thought and feeling, as some assert? Where
is the analogy between it and other secerning or-
gans 7 Doubtless it may, and most likely does,
separate something from the blood, perhaps elec-
tricity ; and this it may do, because electricity is
evolved in the circulation. All other secerning
organs obtain and secrete matter chemically like
that existing in the blood; but philosophers have
70 EVILS OP POPULA.R PHRENOLOGY.
not yet invented tests delicate enough to detect
the elements of thought in the blood, where of
course they ought to be, if separable from it by
the brain. But this is a vulgar view of material-
ism. The philosophic materialists are more pro-
found and refined. Doubtless with honest purpose
they push on science to its limits ; and finding
matter everywhere, and spirit nowhere, they con-
clude that their own intellect results from atomic
affinities, and of course that the mind of the. uni-
verse-God, if He be-springs from eternal mat-
ter, which of course had no maker. In short,
matter is their visible almighty, and physical laws
are his attributes and perfections. No wonder
then that they believe in eternal death; the won-
der is that they live and feel and thus reason.
Surely as life is something more than mechan-
ism, so thought is something above both. No
mixture of substances can produce life, much less
mind. Every living thing is something more than
matter, something more distinct from matter than
the elements are from each other; and it has been
propagated, imparted, and extended from a pre-
ceding life, in a manner which matter cannot be;
after a type existing in egg or seed, at first im-
pregnated by the spirit of life, and hence evolv-
ing itself in onward generations, still multiplying
while advancing. Thus also is it with the mind,
which is ~omething more than life; and every hu-
EVILS OP POPULAR PHRENOLOGY. 71
man spirit is like an imperishable reflection and
visible evidence of Eternal Being, which first fell
upon matter when Jehovah breathed life into
man's body, and saw in man's mental and moral
existence the everlasting image of Himself.
CHAPTER VII.
THE NATURE OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM AND ITS OBEDIENCE
TO THE WILL.
THE nervous system is, perhaps, merely a galvanic
apparatus ; so contrived as that by it the chemis-
try of life is carried on, and those states of the
organs produced, which best enable the mind to
receive sensation and to act on the body. That
nerves, under the action of will, are capable of
eliciting electricity, is proved by its actual pro-
duction in the torpedo, the electric eel, and other
creatures that possess an arrangement of nerves
and muscles by which they can, at will, until fa-
tigued, accumulate and discharge a succession of
shocks. Indeed a spark from the electric eel may
be made visible and conducted in a circle as from
an ordinary electrical machine. The creature has
a perfect galvanic apparatus extending from one
end of its body to the other, supplied by two
hundred and twenty-four pairs of nerves, which
have no other office but to energize this apparatus,
thus affording the most poditive proof that the
nervous power is essential to its galvanic action.
Here then we find a living body capable of fulfil-
ling all the purposes of a powerful voltaic pile,
NATURE OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 73
while its action or its quiescence is determined by
another still more mysterious agency, namely,
the will of the animal. And here also we again
obtain a conclusive evidence that will is the act
of a distinct agent, proving its distinctness by its
control over a separate power.
"Weinhold, a German, cut off a eat's head, and
when its arterial pulsation had ceased, took out
the spinal marrow and placed in its stead an amal-
gam of mercury, silver and zinc: immediately
after this was done the pulsation recommenced,
and the body made a variety of movements. He
took away the brain and spinal marrow of another
cat and filled the skull and vertebral canal with
the same metallic mixture. Life appeared to
be instantly restored ; the animal lifted up its
head, opened and shut its eyes and looking with
fixed stare, endeavoured to walk; and whenever it
dropped, tried to raise itself on its legs. It con-
tinued in this state twenty minutes, when it fell
down and remained motionless. During all the
time the animal was thus treated, the circulation
of the blood appeared to go on regularly; the
secretion of gastric juice was more than usual,
and the animal heat was established." Lancet,
Sept. 2nd, 1843.
If it be true that the cat really tried to walk,
and there seems no reason to doubt the expe-
riment, it proves that the power which wills
E
74 NA.TURE OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
and feels resides not in the brain and spinal chord,
for it continued capable of acting after these were
removed: therefore the brain is not necessary to
its existence; and other galvanic media act also
as stimuli to the organs through which volition
evinces itself.
It has long been well known that galvanism, or
electricity, for they are but modifications of the
same thing, is capable of exciting motion even in
the dead body, when transmitted through a mus-
cle or a nerve of volition. We see that the will
in the torpedo and electric eel produces both elec-
tricity and motion, and we find that a lifeless
limb may be moved by electricity without the
will; what can be a more natural hypothesis there-
fore than that electricity is excited through the
nervous mass by the operation of the will, 80 as
to produce muscular action? The exhaustion of
the torpedo's power of exercising the will, in
giving a shock, is an example of what always
takes place when the will has been long or power-
fully exerted. The nervous apparatus ceases ·to
supply that electric power which stimulates the
muscle; 80 that it may be used by the will, and
the creature lies tired and torpid till restored by
rest.
Thus we obtain a plausible theory of weariness
or weakness : the nervous system becomes unfit
to provide the proper stimulus to the muscular
AND ITS OBEDIENCE TO THE WILL. 75
fibre. Rest is necessary to accumulate the elec-
tricity which must be produced from the san-
guineous circulation. This state of exhaustion
may be induced quite as readily by thinking as
hy bodily exertion, for the nervous system is as
much excited by the one as by the other. Indeed,
that the former, when intense, is more injurious
to the bodily functions than the latter, and is not
so easily repaired by rest and nourishment, will
be shown as we proceed.
Thinking, with the use of the senses or with
an effort of the will in maintaining attention, is
so far a bodily action or function, and that of the
most exhausting kind, but the more so because
not accompanied by a corresponding force of cir-
culation and of breathing, as in active employ-
ment of the limbs. It is remarkable that insane
persons, whose course of thought, even when
most excited, is unattended by voluntary mental
effort, -are not nearly so soon exhausted as studi-
ous persons, who think consecutively and with the
attention fixed on their subject by the mere force
of their will.
The power of the determination sometimes acts
beyond the strength of the body. A boxer aims
a blow at his antagonist, he Inisses his object, and
he breaks the bone of his own arm. The cause is
merely that the mind's action on the muscle was
E2
76 NATURE OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
more powerful than the bone could bear. This
energy of mind in the muscles is sometimes won-
derfully exhibited by a poor emaciated madman.
The strong men cannot hold him ; for though his
muscles are mere threads, the violence of his will
under phrenzy of the brain endows them with un-
tiring action. But the power of the will upon
the muscle is best seen in the fact, that the very
fibres that during life might have been employed
to lift a hundred weight, may instantly after death
be tom by the weight of a few ounces. Thus we
find that, even now, the mind acts by imparting
a power superior to any within the range of me-
chanics, and which absolutely confers strength on
the material in which it operates, by adding to
the attraction of cohesion, and perhaps overcom-
ing gravitation, as electricity converts the soft
iron into a mighty magnet; yet there is no real
similarity between these facts. Will energizing
atoms has no analogy but in the direct operation
of Deity on the universe, which he actuates and
inhabits.
But let us observe what occurs when a man
moves. Here is no preparation but that of the
will ; he walks because he wills to walk ; his
mind's act is immediately obeyed by his body.
There is no knowledge of the instruments em-
ployed, no idea of nerves and fibres. The mind
is sensibly in every limb, and acts whenever it
AND ITS OBEDIENCE TO THE WILL. 77
pleases to act, provided the mechanism be fit for
use. It must be in contact with the instrument,
for it cannot act without; it cannot act where it
is not, therefore the body bounds the power of the
mind. There is no reason why it should not act
indefinitely with a suitable organization, for even
now its energy is limited only by the imperfection
of the materials it employs ; and in the present
economy of our bodies we possess a type of what
we need-an untiring machinery. There exists
such a distribution of nervous power to certain·
parts, as the heart and the muscles by which we
perform the act of breathing, that they are inca-
pable of being fatigued.
A structure completely adapted to the energies
of the unshackled soul, must be one that would
offer no impediment to motion, be incapable of
exhaustion, or, like a perpetual lamp, fed with
power as fast as it is used ; be indestructible, in-
vulnerable ; in short, a vehicle, like that in the
prophet's vision, so entirely governed by the resi-
dent spirit, as to be whithersoever the spirit
would,-not in subjection to earthly attractions
and common cohesion, but a glorious body, fit to
be the everlasting associate of the immortal soul ;
such as the inspired apostle describes as. springing
from the grave at the word of God,-a celestial, a
spiritual, an incorruptible body. Why should we
deem this impossible ? Do we not now feel that thia
78 NATURE OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
jfah is no match for the mighty spirit ? Do we
not mourn the wretchedness of being forced for
its sake to stop short in our pursuit of pleasure or
of knowledge? Do we not know that this poor
trembling tissue is too weak to bear the full force
of even our narrow will ? Shall we wonder then
that the faithful and almighty Father should fully
accommodate his children, and determine, if we
rightly seek it, to furnish each one with a spiri-
tual and an incorruptible body, that we may the
better accomplish his will and thus enjoy our being.
It must be acknowledged that the language
employed in revealing the doctrine of a resurrec-
tion of the body, certainly favors the notions of
materialists, so far as it implies that the use of a
body of some kind is essential to the full and per-
fect capacity of human existence i but still it
proves that the spirit is not derived from the flesh,
and that it is distinct from physical arrangement i
and so far from depending on the body, the body
is to be reconstructed with new laws and func-
tions, not to produce the being-man, but to ac-
commodate him suitably in some other sphere of
action.
Some men sneer at the doctrine of a bodily re-
surrection, and others regard it with undefined
reverence, while perhaps both are equally far from
believing all its fulness i that is, they do not view
the doctrine in all its relations and with all the
AND ITS OBEDIENCE TO THE WILL. 79
sublime connexions as expressly revealed and de-
monstrated by one crowning fact,-the miracle has
· happened. Those who receive the doctrine loosely,
are in danger of losing sight of its grand import-
ance, and, having no distinct perception of its ne-
cessity, just as revealed, for the completion of the
Christian scheme, they may at length confound the
speculative fancies of their own whimsical minds,
and the dreaming comments of others, with what
God has spoken and done, so as to render the whole
subject a ridiculous incongruity instead of a sub-
lime and consistent truth. The mixture of false-
hood with fact, calm reason must reject; and the
reasoner too often does not discover that what he
has rejected is but a deformity, and not the doc-
trine of the New Testament. Thus the key-stone
of the bridge over the vast dark gulf between
time and eternity is gone, and he finds no footing
when his spirit would travel off this earth. But
let the man who, in any manner, discredits the
resurrection, tum away from metaphysical ques-
tions and look at Christ-living, dead,.. buried,
risen I Or if he have tenderly loved one departed
in the living faith of a risen Lord, let him again
realize the presence and fellowship of the beloved
object in the promise and the prophecy of death-
less love and eternal happiness. Then let the
bright vision again fade away in death and gloom,
without a star-gleam on the lonely grave; and
80 NATURE OJ!' THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
whe:n his spirit seems in outer darkness, let the
mourner read the 15th chapter of the 1st of Co-
rinthians, and then call the doctrine of the resur-
rection a trick and a delusion if he can. But we
must return from this divergence.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE POWER OF ATTENTION, AND ITS CONNEXION WITH
SLEEP.
LET us again reflect a little on the power of atten-
tion. Is this a property of the body? Can the
body produce a faculty capable of regarding its
own wants and influencing its own sensations ?
If you cease to attend to the senses, you cease to
be conscious of external existence; your body ne-
cessarily falls asleep, or you pass into a state of
reverie. The body is not then needed for any ofthe
voluntary acts of the mind. It is not then wanted
by the will ; and therefore until some interference
with the repose of the body happens, or some
power agitates its resident spirit, and thus de-
mands the use of the organization subservient to
the will, you continue without attention to ex-
ternal objects. We have no proof, however, that
the soul also slumbers; but we have reason rather
to conclude that it attends to the past when not
engaged with things present. At least we know
we often dream, and to dream is the business of
the mind when combining past impressions, with-
ES
82 THE POWER OP ATTENTION AND
out regard to the actual state of the body. When
we awake we generally forget our dreams, because
the soul again wills and acts in keeping with cir-
cumstances around us; and the machinery of the
body, if in health, again obeys the mandates of
the mind. There is something operating which
is so unlike all it influences, that it can neither
be seen, nor.handled, nor at all perceived, but in
its action upon matter.
When not using the body, that is, when not
employing material substances, the mind acknow-
ledges neither time nor space, for it is not go-
verned by physical laws. Hence .it is that, if
no haunting anxiety perplex the mind and no
disorder disturb the organism of the associate
body, as often, and as regularly as the curtain of
nightly shade falls around ns, and we desire to
withdraw our attention, the senses sleep ; and,
at the touch of light, the consenting spirit within
again awakes them to the wonders of a daily
resurrection. During the interval between the
evening and morning, what intricate visions of
activity and interest, all according to some law
important to our being, crowd upon the busy
soul, not indeed in the distinctness of a measured
and material succession, but as if at once past
and yet present. There is no consciousness of
time in our dreams; for a sense of time arises
from a comparison of the relative duration of
ITS CONNEXION WITH SLEEP. 83
material changes, and therefore belongs only to
the outward use of the mind. In the imaginings
or fanciful but instructive blendings of past ideas
in our profounder slumbers, we are but in the
spirit, without the perception of circumstances ;
and the action of the soul, like itself, has no de-
pendance on minutes and hours; for it knows no
division, no dimensions, and is comprehended
only by the mind of Him who produced it. But
even in sleep the spirit usually preserves a kind of
discriminating vigilance with regard to the sense
of hearing at least, so as to distinguish the mean-
ing of sounds. Thus the mother, whose mind is
naturally engrossed by the infant that depends on
her for every help, will sleep profoundly amidst
the incessant din and rattle of a London thorough-
fare, or of carriages and the rout, it may be next
door, but the smallest sound from her baby will
instantly awaken her.
This perception during sleep, however, must be
greatly modified by the previous habit and by the
state of mind at the time. One unaccustomed to
the rushing and roaring of a steam-vessel at sea
would scarcely be able to sleep, but the captain
would probably start up in a moment if the
engine were to stop.
The action of the mind on the circulation, and
the development of nervous energy in the use of
the senses -and muscles, while we are awake, is of
84 THE POWER OP ATTENTION AND
so positive and exhausting a nature, as regards
the powers of the body, that a continuance .of
sleeplessness must terminate in death. There is
reason to believe that growth or addition to the
body never takes place while the senses are en-
gaged, in consequence of the demand made by
the mind in maintaining their action. What we
understand by fatigile is the felt unfitness of the
body any longer to subserve the outward purposes
of the mind. If we do not yield to the sense of
weariness, but struggle against it by strong effort;
or if, in consequence of some interesting subject
engrossing the affections and powerfully exciting
the will, we find that we cannot sleep, the body
rapidly becomes diseased, and the manifestations
of the mind assume an irregular and disordered
character. In short, long-continued vigilance is
a frequent cause of insanity as well as of other
bodily maladies. It is remarkable, however, that
when mental derangement is established from this
cause, the patient often regains a considerable
degree of bodily vigour, although he enjoy an
extremely small degree of perfect sleep. This
fact is probably explained by the circumstance
that the insane person does not use his senses in
the same attentive manner as a sane individual,
but he behaves as if acting in a dream. The
brain in such cases is but partially awake, or at
least is in such a state that the mind cannot 110
ITS CONNEXION WITH SLEEP, 85
act upon it as to keep it in the condition necessary
for orderly and vigilant thinking ; and therefore
it cannot be exhausted as we experience it to be
by mental effort. The madman's thoughts, like
dreams, are fashioned into fantastic and myste-
rious visions, in keeping indeed with his past his-
tory and remembrance; the ideas are impressed
upon his living soul, but irrespective of any reso-
lute demand of his will, though never as I believe
without relation to his moral characteristics.
Sleep results from a constitutional bodily neces-
sity ; the attention of the mind must be with-
drawn from the body, or the machinery of nerves
and blood-vess~ls cannot be properly repaired and
fitted for further action. The body requires rest,
the mind does not ; and the body needs it only
because the structure of its parts will not bear
the incessant operation of the mind upon it.
Unless the structure be rendered quite unfit for
the use of the mind, it is always roused into
action whenever an appeal is made to the soul by
any influence. In short, it is manifest that the
thinking and acting principle does not sleep at all
in the sense in which the body sleeps when the
mind is not using it; for the mind is always
ready for action whenever the organization is in a
fit state to convey impression and to be employed.
As surely as physical phenomena excite sensation
during sleep, as in some dreams, so surely do they
86 THE POWER OP ATTENTION AND
prove that during sleep there is no absolute sus-
pension of the faculty of perception. That we
awake at the bidding of a bodily necessity, as
also we fall asleep, is an evidence that the mind
only partially retires from the senses till outward
occasion demands the physical operation of the
will.
It is simply ridiculous to say, as some do, that
the brain is actively employed in taking up recol-
lected impressions of the thousand asSociations of
past thought and feeling in dreaming and.insanity,
and yet to deny that the brain produces mind ;
for if the mind does not recollect these past
associations, the brain must ; but as manifested
mind (so called) consists of these very thoughts
and feelings, mind itself, as a distinct thing, has
no existence, if their production and reproduction
be only a function of the brain. The cessation
of the brain is then the cessation of the thinking
principle,-they are one. Is it not more reason-
able to consider dreaming and insanity as mind
or soul in action, without any distinctness of ex-
terior purpose or aim, such as we feel while acting
in our social relations and in consciousness of
responsibility, because we then recognize the pro-
priety of those laws by which our actions should
be governed in relation to others and for our own
sakes?
Ideas are remembered impressions, and dreams
ITS CONNEXION WITH SLEEP. 87
are confused ideas ; if then ideas are mental,
dreams are mental. There are laws under which
the soul acts in dreaming as well as in thinking,
and it is often difficult to distinguish these acts.
Neither the danger nor the absurdity of consider-
ing dreaming as a mental act is very apparent,
notwithstanding this opinion has been regarded
with a sort of pious dread by some writers, who
attribute dreaming to the spontaneous action of
an irritated brain ; as if they escaped from the
dilemma of materialism by representing waking
ideas as the result of a spiritual intelligence, and
those arising during sleep as the sole offspring of
a writhing bundle of fibres. Such tiinid reason-
ing, after all its agony, only pictures the mind as
more completely an accident of matter, unless
such language be meant merely to signify that
ideas in sleep are not directed by the same degree
or kind of mental deterinination as during the
periods of vigilance and wilfulness. This, how-
ever, no one denies ; and it is perfectly consistent
with the notion that the being that thinks is
stimulated by impressions derived through the
nervous system,-it is actuated by motive, by the
agreeable or disagreeable; but then the nervous
system, which only communicates the causes of
sensations, not the sensations themselves, cannot
originate the thinking being its~ nor confer
any of ita properties. It is the property of this
88 THE POWER OF ATTENTION AND
being to be roused into ordinary activity by
impressions on the nerves; and all the pheno-
mena of dreams and disorder of the brain are
precisely such as we should look for under such
an arrangement, when we reflect that the atten-
tion is more or less withdrawn from the senses
in these cases, as we shall discover by reference
to facts.
Experiment demonstrates that the power ot
attending to the senses may be influenced by the
occupation of the mind or by the state of the
organization, and of course our common con-
sciousness or unconsciousness, when we are not
asleep, is only the condition of the soul in regard
to the senses, that is, to external attention. In
dreaming there is always consciousness at the
time of the ideas passing, and yet on waking we
do not always, nor indeed generally, remember
that we have dreamed ; so that in fact we are
conscious in one state without being aware of it
in another. This fact is abundantly proved, as
we shall see, and it furnishes demonstration that
the mind may be active during what we call a
state of insensibility, and may require only some
slight change in the connexion of the faculty or
power of soul by which we remember, to enable
ns to recall with distinctness the condition and
employment of mind during such a state of appa-
rent suspense; just as we recognize in waking
ITS CONNEXION WITH SLEEP. 89
memory the various experiences of our wakeful
life. Some link in the chain is wanting to com-
plete the circle, which, being completed, one end
is connected with the other; the· current of
thought returns, and we become conscious of its
unbroken action. There is no possibility of un-
derstanding this subject, without bearing in mind
our double consciousness, that with the senses
and that without their use. But it is fruitless to •
attempt reasoning without facts ; these supersede
all other arguments, and to facts therefore we
shall always appeal. Yet we should not disregard
the suggestion that the mind may possess a power,
hereafter to be developed, by which it shall be
enabled to connect all its ideas and dreams to-
gether, and perceive the mutu&;I relation of its two
states of consciousness.
CHAPTER IX.
THE STATE OP THE WILL IN DREAJIING.
THINKING is that action of the mind by which we
become conscious of existence, either in the re-
membrance of the past, the perception of the pre-
sent, or the expectation of the future. Thought,
as it regards our observation of facts, is always
voluntary. An act of the will precedes or accom-
panies attention, whether to sensible or ideal ob-
jects. As our experience is actual, we of course
at once associate sensation with an object; hence
imagination, or the action of mind abstract from
sense, supplies an appropriate succession of ideas,
by the law of association. The faculty of con-
ceiving unreal circumstances, or things not pre-
sent, although ordinarily unattended by volition
in the restricted sense, yet never proceeds altoge-
ther without the operation of the will; for mental
abstraction commences and is maintained by a de-
terminate effort. In this case, however, we pre-
serve a certain control over the body. But in
dreams, or in reverie of the most profound kind,
the mind seems more detached from the physical
STATE OP THE WILL IN DREAMING. 91
organization. Still even then we attend to the
ideas presented, and, to a great extent, reason
and decide conceming them according to the
moral principles which habitually regulate onr
conduct ; so that in fact onr dreams would well
reveal to us the state of our hearts and onr habita,
for in them onr wills are freer from restraint, and
onr desires are more undisguised by the hypocri-
sies of waking life. As Sir. Thomas Browne says
in his tract on dreams, "Persons of radical integ-
rity will not easily be perverted in their dreams,
nor noble minds do pitiful things in sleep."
"Though bounded in a nut-shell, I might fancy
myself a king of infinite space, but that I have had
dreams," exclaims Hamlet. These visions of the
night indeed instruct us conceming onr charac-
ters; and though they are produced involuntarily,
yet they test the conscience and prove the state of
onr dispositions. The facts about to be related
will fully confirm the truth of this observation,
and assist to sustain the opinion that all thinking
is influenced by the previous habit and training of
the will.
That volition is not suspended during sleep, is
proved by many facts; and probably the experi-
ence of every person who remembers his dreams,
affords evidence that the will is as busy during
sleep as when awake. But the fact is strikingly
illustrated by examples of remarkable exertion of
92 STATE OJ!' THE WILL IN DREAMING.
will, in the employment of intellect and genius
during sleep. Tartini, a celebrated violin player,
composed his famous Devil'a Sonata while he
dreamed that the devil challenged him to a trial
of skill on his own violin. Cabanis often during
his dreams saw clearly into the bearing of political
events which baffied him when awake. Condorcet
frequently left his deep and complicated calcula-
tions unfinished whe~ obliged to retire to rest,
and found their results unfolded in his dreams.
Coleridge's account of his wild composition, Kuhla
Khan, is very curious. He had been reading
Purchaa'a Pilgrimage, and fell asleep at the mo-
ment he was reading this sentence-" Here the
Khan Kubla commanded a palace to be built, and
a stately garden thereunto." He continued in
profound sleep about three hours, during which
he had a vivid confidence that he composed from
two to three hundred lines; ~ as he says, that
can be called composition in which all the images
rose up before him as things with a parallel pro-
duction of correspondent expressions. On awak-
ing he appeared to have a distinct recollection of
the whole, and proceeded to write down the won-
derful lines that are preserved, when he was in-
terrupted, and could never afterwards recall the
rest.
We might multiply examples, but all we could
J'dduce would demonstrate no more than the fore-
STATE OP THE WILL IN DREAMING, 93
going, though they might afford additional pre-
sumption that the mind is generally employed
during sleep, on its chosen or accustomed sub-
jects, and that dreams indicate our spiritual con-
dition, because in them those faculties and feelings
are most active which we most energetically exer-
cise while awake.
In short, it appears that the contact of any
disturbing power with the mind, whether awake
or asleep, necessarily causes it to act and will
according to its habit and character. Every new
sensation is unaccountably connected with some
preceding sensation, so that volition and memory
are the necessary characteristics of manifested
mind. No subtilty of reasoning has been able to
account for these powers or peculiarities of mind
on a material theory. Phrenologists and meta-
physicians, with all their grand and cloudy pre-
tensions, have added nothing important to our
knowledge concerning them. All their elaborate
disquisitions exhibiting the operation of mental
function in unison w
.ith organization, teach us no
inore than we previously knew, namely, that the
functions of the mind and brain are created to
act together at present. They leave us in pos-
session of the capital and most interesting fact,
that we do will and we do remember, but they
cannot tell us how. Still they must,acknowledge
that these wonderful powers result from the ope-
94 STATE OP THE WILL IN DREAMING.
ration of some thing or being, which clw08u be-
tween pleasant and unpleasant sensations, both
when the hotly 8ltep8 and when it wake8 ; and which
some thing or being also recalls past impressions
according to certain laws of association and cer-
tain states of mind and body. That is, onr
Maker has bound onr facnlties to act in a certain
order, under certain circnmstances; in short, that
He holds dominion over mind as well as matter,
for pnrposes hereafter to be revealed.
CHAPTER X.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF THB POWER OF THB MIND IN
DREAMING, SOMNAMBULISM, &c.
THE importance of reflecting on volition and me-
mory will be best demonstrated by facts, and an
acquaintance with these principles will most fully
manifest the nature of our existence, as consti-
tuted to be modified and actuated by moral forces.
The senses are impressed whenever their objects
are present, but the mind itself receives no im-
pression unless disposed to attend. Thus we find
that when the mind is fully intent upon one clasa
of objects or ideas, it wholly disregards all others;
as when the absent man forgets the presence of
his friends, or the imaginative man revels in his
ideal world to the detriment of his well-being in
this lower and more palpable existence. Many
curious instances of this want of attention to the
senses may be related, the most remarkable of
which very nearly approximate to insanity, which
probably in most cases is properly described as
being out of the senses. Those images and inti-
mations which the senses continue correctly to
96 THE POWER OP THE MIND IN
exhibit, are disregarded or perverted by the mind
while it is busied about sensations or impressions
produced or excited by some disordered action of
the brain; which being the organ on which the
thinking power immediately acts, and through
which it directly receives all its intelligence con-
cerning the external world, of course must con-
stantly modify the manifestation of mind according
to the healthiness of its structure and function.
Somnambulism, or sleep-walking, affords good
examples of mental activity without attention to
the impression made on the senses. Somnambu-
lists generally walk with their eyes open, but it is
evident that they do not employ them. A man
has been known to fall asleep while walking at
the end of a fatiguing journey, and he could not
be roused from his sleep without great difficulty,
although he continued to walk in company with
his friends for a considerable distance. It is
indeed a well-authenticated fact, that in the dis-
astrous retreat of Sir John Moore, many of the
soldiers fell asleep, yet continued to march along
with their comrades.
In connexion with this subject we have an illus-
tration of the genius of Shakspeare. He was so
observant of nature and so well distinguished the
apparent from the actual, that his descriptions
even of disease are so marvellously truthful that
the teacher of pathology may often quote them as
DB.EAMING AND SOMNAMBULISM. 91
the best guides to his pupils. He gives a lucid
glimpse at the phenomena of somnambulism and
sleep-talking, when he describes Lady Macbeth in
"the unnatural troubles of her unnatural deeds,
discharging the secrets of her infected mind to her
deaf pillow.n He represents the abntpt and sug~
gestive vision of circumstances, in which the soul
re-enacts her terrible part, precisely as those often
witness who are attendant on talking dreamers
and insane persons. The only evident difference
between these classes is, that the latter seem to
dream on when quite awake, and force their senses
to confirm their fancies.
"I have seen her rise from her bed," says the
gentlewoman, "throw her night-gown up<>n her,
unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it, write
upon it, read it, afterwards seal it, and again
return to bed; yet all this while fast asleep."
" Doct.-YOU see her eree are OJ;leD•
(fflat.-But their sense is shut."
In these cases we observe that the mind con-
trols the actions of the voluntary muscles, and
continues attending to visible objects, without
employing the sense of sight, and apparently re-
ceives impressions of sound, while the auditory
nervous apparatus is quite insensible. It may be
true that certain portions of brain sleep while
other portion.s rell).ain $Wake; but what does that
p
98 THE POWER OP THE lUND IN
signify ? Can one part of the brain subserve the
purposes of the other parts, and those organs
which phrenologists appropriate to thought, fur-
nish a substitute in their own action for that of
the instruments of vision and of hearing ? If so,
their system must be false; for faculty is not
limited according to their cranial maps, the pro-
vinces ofwhich are boldly defined by very imagin-
ary lines indeed. But what is the difference in
the state of the brain during sleeping and waking f
Happily we are supplied with facts which in some
measure answer this question, and prove to our
satisfaction that both brain and mind act alto-
gether, and not by bits.
Sir Astley Cooper had a patient, whose skull
being imperfect allowed him to examine the move-
ments of the brain. Sir Astley says, " I distinctly
saw the pulsation of the brain was regular and
and slow, but at this time he was agitated by some
opposition to his wishes, and directly the blood was
sent with increased force to the brain, the pulsa-
tion became frequent and violent." Dr. Pierquin
witnessed the following case in the hospital of
Montpellier, in 1821. Dr. Caldwell states that
" the subject of it was a female, who had lost a
large portion of the skull and dura mater in a
neglected attack of lues venerea. When she was
in a dreamless sleep her brain was motionless ;
when her sleep was imperfect and she was agitated
DREAMING AND SOMNAMBULISM. 99
by dreams, her brain protruded from the cranium;
in vivid dreams, reported aa 8Uch by her1elf, the
protrusion was considerable ; and when perfectly
awake, especially if engaged in active thought or
sprightly conversation, it was greater still." ~e
may observe that in dreams reported by herself
to be vivid, the brain protruded. These dreams
must then have occuued during the transition
from sleep to waking, for we shall learn from nu-
merous other facts that the most perfect dreams
are those which are not remembered. Here,
moreover, we have a demonstration that the brain
is roused by the mind ; for mind must first have
responded to the call, whatever the medium of
the sensation which caused the patient to awake.
We also see that the brain, during active thought,
must have been injected with additional blood in
every part of it, for doubtless it would have be-
come enlarged in all directions at once, had the
skull allowed. This must always be the tendency
whenever the supply of blood is increased in the
brain, if we understand anything of its mechanism
and circulation ; for branches spread to every part
from the larger blood vessels ; and as there are
no valves the supply must flow to all, as water
flows through every open pipe connected with the
main. :But perhaps some questioner would sug-
gest that the mind possesses power to control the
supply, and cause it to pass with more or less
F2
1()() TB.B POWElL OP THE HIND IN
freedom in certain parts of the brain, according
to circumstances. This indeed may readily be
granted; for it substantiates what is contended
for, namely, that the mind acts independently
and as a whole, not as a loose bundle of separate
faculties, each self-moved; and that mind acts
according to its will, that is its nature, taking
this or that direction as it is impressed.
Yet we have no proof that brain thus respond~
in parcels to the impress of the mind, and even if
we had, it would no more prove that mind results
from the action of the brain than from the use of
our limbs, through which also the mind is mani-
fested by calling them into action. At any rate,
the oneness of the mind, and therefore its inde-
pendence on successive conditions of brain and
faculty, must be acknowledged; for sorely it is
the same mind which experiences all the succes-
sions of sensation and of thought. How then
does this fact agree with the assumption that the
healthy brain may be active in one part and dor-
mant in another? The state and power of atten-
tion alone explain the mystery. We find that
mental activity, when directed to the body, causes
an instantaneous increase in the supply of blood
to the brain, which of course we should expect,
because the blood furnishes the material, whether
electrical or not, which excites the whole bodily
apparatus into action when the will demands it;
DREAMING AND SOMNAMBULISM. 101
This fact, however, brings us very little nearer to
the unravelment of the tangled clue that must
guide us from the mazes·of science and surmise.
It is evident that the integrity of mental action
is not dependant on the waking activity of the
brain, or at least of that portion of it which is
more immediately connected with the senses; for,
notwithstanding the last-mentioned facts, we pos-
sess incontrovertible evidence in preceding facts
that the mind is sometimes employed more clearly
in profound sleep than when the attention is in
any degree directed to the senses. Dr. Abercrom-
bie relates, 'that an eminent lawyer had been con-
sulted respecting a case of great difficulty and
importance, and after several days of intense at-
tention to the subject, he got up in his sleep and
wrote a long paper. The following morning he
told his wife that he had had a most interesting
dream, and that he would give anything to reco-
ver the train of thought which had then passed
through his mind. She directed him to his writ-
ing desk, where he fonnd his opinion clearly and
luminously written out.
It is contrary to all the physiology of the case
to conclude, as some most hastily have done, that
it is but a lighter kind of sleep which is associated
with somnambulism; for this condition results
from nervous exhaustion, and is apt, like delirium,
to occur in the most marked manner in persona
1Q2 THE POWER OP THE lUND IN
in whom the quantity of blood is deficient. The
difficulty of arousing such patients is always in
proportion to the completeness of the attack; that
is, in proportion to the energy with which the
will is at work without attending to the body,-a
sufficient proof that the sleep, whether partial or
perfect, is yet profound. This kind of sleep never
seems to happen but when the nervous system
demands unusual repose, being greatly worn by
some bodily irritation or mental disquietude. The
abuse of the passions most frequently predisposes
to its worst forms. That the mind should act
thus vigorously when the body is exhausted, and
be most energetic when the heart beats low and
the cheek is blanched, is at best but indifferent
attestation to the truth of the theory that requires
mind to be merely the effect of blood acting upon
brain, or a kind of compound engendered by their
mixture, which will be most strongly manifested
~hen the mixture is most active, like the electric
fluid from the acid and the metals in the galvanic
trough.
Dr. Darwin (Zoonomia, p. 221), relates a case
which be witnessed, of a young lady who, after
being exhausted by violent convulsions, was sud-
denly affected by what he calls reverie. She con-
versed aloud with imaginary persons, 'her eyes
were open, but so intently was her mind occupied
that she could not be brought to attend to exter-
DREAMING AND SOMNAMBULISM. 108
nal objects by the most violent stimulants. The
conversations were quite consistent. Sometimes
she was angry, at -other times very witty, but
most frequently inclined to melancholy. Indeed
it appears that this reverie only exalted her natural
versatility of temper and intellect. She sang with
accuracy, and repeated many pages from the
poets. In repeating some lines from Pope, she
forgot a word, and after repeated trials regained
it. In subsequent attacks she could walk about
the room, and, although she could not see, she
never ran against the furniture, but always avoided
obstacles. Dr. Darwin convinced himself that in
this state she was not capable of seeing or hearing
in the ordinary manner. It is observable in this
case that volition was not suspended; she regained
by effort the lost word in repeating .the poetry,
and deliberated according to the natural habit of
her mind ; yet, when the paroxysm was over, she
could not recollect a single idea ofwhat had passed
in it.
The relation between dreaming and somnambu-
lism is remarkably exhibited by the manner in
which the current of dreams may be directed in
certain individuals, by impressing their senses
during sleep. An officer, engaged in the expedi-
tion to Lc1uiaburg, in 1758, was so peculiarly sus-
ceptible of such impressions that he afforded his
companions much amusement by the facility with
104 .THE POWER O:P THE MIND IN
which they could cause him to dream. Once they
conducted him through a quarrel which ended in
a duel: the pistol was placed in his hand, he fired,
and was awakened by the report. They found
him asleep on a locker, when they made him be-
lieve he had fallen overboard. They told him a
shark was pursuing him, and entreated him to
dive for his life, and he threw himself with great
force on the cabin floor. After the landing of the
army at Louisburg, his friends found him one day
asleep in his tent, and evidently much annoyed
by the cannonading. They then made him be-
lieve he was engaged, when he expressed great
fear and a disposition to run away. They remon-
strated, but increased his fears by imitating
groans, and when he asked who was hit, they
named his particular friends. At last they told
him the man next him had fallen, when he sprang
out of bed, rushed out of the tent, and ended his
dream by falling over the tent ropes. He had no
recollection of his dreams.
The following instance is related in the first
volume of the Lancet. George Davies, 16 years
old, in the service of Mr. Hewson, Butcher, of
Bridge-road, Lambeth, being fatigued, bent for-
ward in his chair, and, resting his forehead on his
hands, fell asleep. After ten minutes he started
up, went for his whip, put on his spurs, and went
to the stable. Not finding his own saddle in the
DREAMING AND SOJIINA.MBULISM, 105
proper place, he returned to the house and asked
for it. Being asked what he wanted with it, he
replied to go his rounds. He returned to the
stable, got on the horse without the saddle, and
was proceeding to the street, when, with much
difficulty and force, he was removed from his
horse. He thought himself stopped at the turn-
pike gate, took sixpence out of his pocket to be-
changed, and holding out his hand for the change,
the sixpence was returned to him. He immedi-
ately observed, "None of your nonsense; that is
the sixpence again,-give me my change.'' When
2!d. was given to him, he counted it over and
said, " None of your gammon-that is not right
-1 want a penny more;" making the 3~d., which
was his proper change. He then said, " Give me
my CfJIItor" (meaning his hat), which slang term
he had been in the habit of using, and then be-
gan to whip and spur to get his horse on. Mr.
Hewson related the circumstance, in his hearing,
of a Mr. Harris, Optician, in Holborn, whose son,
some years since, walked out on the parapet of
the house in his sleep. The boy joined the con-
versation, and observed that he lived at the corner
of Brownlow-street. After being bled, he awoke,
got up, and asked what was the matter (having
then been one hour in the trance), not having
the slightest recollection of allything that had
P3
1()6 THE POWER OF THE MIND IN
passed. His eyes remained closed the whole of
the time.
According to a report made by the Committee
of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, that
process which is called Animal Magnetism appears
to have the power of producing a remarkable kind
of somnambulism. The facts about to be related
seem too startling to be easily credited, but the
testimony of such men as Cloquet, Georget, and
ltard, is not to be lightly esteemed; and they all
concur in bearing witness to the truth of the case.
-A lady, 64 years of age, had a cancer in her
breast. She was magnetized, as it is called, for
the purpose of dissolving the tumor, but the only
effect was to throw her into a state in which ex-
ternal sensibility was removed, while her ideas
and power of conversing retained all their clear-
ness. In this condition her surgeon induced her
to submit to an operation. Having given her
consent, she sat down on a chair, and the diseased
part was deliberately dissected out, while she con-
tinued conversing about the different stages of the
operation-being perfectly insensible of pain. On
awaking, she had no consciousness whatever of
having been operated upon. She was a lady of
great respectability, and resided at No. 151, Rue
St. Denis, Paris.
This case is not quoted either for or against
DREAMING AND SOMNAMBULISM. 107
Mesmerism. The operation having been really
performed, and the patient having appeared in-
different to pain, it equally well answers the pur-
pose of illustration ; for if truly the effect of mes-
merism, it proves the power of causing a wonderful
sort of abstraction, during which the mind may
perceive what goes on in the organs, and employ
them too, without sensation in them. And if this
case be an imposition in that respect, it yet proves
the mastery of the will in maintaining the atten-
tion according to purpose in almost as marvellous
a manner. An anonymous opposer of Mesmerism
lately announced, in a periodical, that the lady
had confessed her imposition ; but, on subsequent
inquiry of the celebrated surgeon who operated,
and of others who intimately knew her, they po-
sitively denied that there was any deception, or
that she had ever confessed anything to that effect.
When Dr. Caldwell, ofAmerica, asked M. Cloquet,
who operated in this case, if he had ever seen a
patient in the ordinary state who bore pain as un-
moved, he answered, "Jamaia! jamaia! jamaia!"
He also said he was quite aure that she never made
the corifeuion alluded to. This subject will again
claim our attention, when more fully and par-
ticnlarly considering the morbid influences of the
mind on the body.
CHAPTER XI.
• THE STATE OF THE ATTENTION MODIFIES SENSATION.
WE have reason to believe that whenever disor-
dered action of the mind occurs, a corresponding
disorder takes place in the nervous organization ;
but it always manifests itself at first, and indeed
more or less throughout its course, by new and
irregular whimsicalities of will, the attention be-
ing withdrawn from ordinary objects, and the
mind impressed by some false conviction or un-
reasonable desire. In short, insanity appears to
be a disease in which the mind is rendered inca-
pable of due attention, either to ideas existing in
the memory or to new impressions on the senses,
in consequence of being possessed by some false
notion, to such an extent that it cannot view any
subject or idea bearing any relation to that notion
except in such a manner as shall confirm the false
impression. Whatever is presented to the mind
in association with that false impression, at once
causes the mind, according to a common law of
its operation, to attend to the prominent notion,
which thus assumes the character of an indisput-
ATTENTION MODIFIES SENSATION. 109
able truth-an axiom-a faith to which every-
thing must conform. The following anecdote will
illustrate the power of this kind of false belief,
and at the same time demonstrate that mental
persuasion is superior to the impressions of bodily
necessity. A man will starve to death rather than
renounce what he regards as truth.
·A clergyman, about 40 years of age, while
drinking wine, happened to swallow with it the
seal of a letter which he had jnst received. One
of his companions seeing him alarmed, for the
sake of a foolish jest, cried out, " It will seal up
your bowels." These words taking effect upon
his brain while excited by a fright, caused the
gentleman to become suddenly insane. From that
moment he was the victim of melancholy, and in
a few days he refused to swallow any kind of
nourishment, alleging as a reason that " he knew
nothing would pass through him." The plentiful
operation of a powerful cathartic, which his phy-
sician forced him to take, failed to convince him
of the patency of his bowels. Coaxing and threats
were equally unavailing; his mind would not
consent that anything should pass down into his
stomach, and he died of a mad idea.
All prejudice which disqualifies an individual
from comparing evidence is so far disorder of in-
tellect. The will is thus engaged and cannot at-
tend to new claimants, so as.to determine justly
..
110 ATTENTION KODIPIES SENSATION.
concerning them. In madness, the prejudice and
perversion are more decided, and for the most
part more honest than those which cause divisions
amongst responsible men. Like children looking
through different coloured glasses at the sun, each
believes that his own fragment presents the only
proper hue.
In mental derangement, the deficiency, as re-
spects the power of attending to sensation, may
be very partial and even limited to one subject.
As regards that subject, the faculty of discrimina-
tion is lost. Any attempt to compare only re-
produces the same image. Thus a man may be-
lieve, as the celebrated Simon Browne did, that
he bas lost his rational soul, wbile at the same
time exerting the highest order of intellect. This
person, in dedicating a controversial work to Queen
Anne, says ofhimself, "he was once a man of some
little name, but of no worth, as his present unpa-
ralleled case makes too manifest; for by the im-
mediate hand ofGod, his very thinking substance
has been wasting away for seventeen years till it
is wholly perished." So completely does the do-
minant idea sometimes possess the attention, that
certain deranged persons become almost insensible
to external impressions, and are able, if they will,
like that pseudo-saint, Macarius, to stand in a
state of nudity for months together, in a marsh,
exposed to the bite of every noxious insect.
ATTENTION MODIFIES SENSATION. 111
The soul seems conscious only of those things
that suit the state of its will. We see, whenever
we have means of detecting it, that the will is
always engaged about its business ; for, as far as
we can observe the mind's operations, it is ever
comparing, choosing, or pursuing. We sleep, and
lose sight of realities; we awake, and lose sight
of dreams, only because our attention is fixed on
what is present to the mind's consciousness of
things external or within itself; but still, sleeping
or waking, the thinking principle is equally intent
and equally engaged. Circnmstances change not
its nature, but only modify its operation. Even
apparent unconsciousness is no proof of its sus-
pension. Let the same circumstances return, and
the mind manifests itself in the same manner, for
neither physical elements nor apiri#t~al dynamics
can alter the affinities of the soul or liberate it
from the necessity of choice and action, according
to the constitution in which it was created. The
freedom of its will is limited to its sphere, and any
contrariety in its movements to Divine Law brings
it in contact with some obstacle, so that persist-
ance in erroneous desire leads only to increased
suffering ; and as a creature is rendered incapable
of its natural delight when in darkness, so every
rational soul finds its proper liberty only in re-
turning to the true light, which is true love.
Those foriUS of insanity, sleep-walking and
112 ATTENTION MODIFIES SENSATION.
sleep-talking, which so frequently present them-
selves, prove, as before observed, that mental ac-
. tivity is not proportioned to the wakefulness of
the senses, nor indeed necessarily associated with
sensation, but rather the reverse ; at least it ap-
pears that the mind in such cases is occupied not
so much in attending to external things as to fan-
cies ; or if in any degree to realities, only so far
as to mix them with imagined or remembered
circumstances. This is perfectly consonant with
all we know of the mind ; for though ideas are
first excited by some peculiar condition of the
organization, in keeping with certain states of
mental faculty, yet the ideas or images of things
afterwards continue to play their parts in the
dramas of the soul, without its recurring to the
help of renewed sensation. The senses then are
no part of our consciousness, or·of ourselves, for
individuality does not consist of parts ; it is the
one and indivisable being, the ego ipse, which per- '
ceives and wills.
The senses convey the exciting causes of new
thoughts to our minds, but the elements of the
thoughts themselves always reside in the mind,
which forms the thought; for there is no necessary
connexion. between the sensation and the idea
awakened by it but in the nature and property of
the thinking principle itself. It is this which
gives appropriate forms to appropriate impres-
ATTENTION MODIPIES SENSATION. 113
sions, or interprets sensations in keeping with
some pre-existing ordinance of the soul. We see,
we feel, we hear, according to a power apart from
sense, or not necessarily associated with it, and
according to a nature that may see, hear, feel, in
a different manner with different instruments, or
even immediately, that is, without instruments,
and rather according to the state of the will than
the state of the body.
Here an observation concerning the phenomena
attributed to Mesmerism may be again ventured.
If philosophical witnesses have not avouched fal-
lacies and tricks to be facts and fair-dealing, we
possess demonstration that sensation is not essen-
tial to perception; for men whom we have been
accustomed to think shrewd physiologists, whose
opinions in other matters have been deemed most
wisely founded on observation, are ready to declare
their conviction-that individuals in a certain
state of mesmeric excitation, are in the habit of
dispensing with the use of their senses in holding
communication with things about them. The
cases of clairvoyance are numerous, and related
with all appearance of honest simplicity, in most
of the treatises on Mesmerism. Now, if we may
rely on these experiments, it follows,-
!. That the mind in the normal state perceives
objects through sensation, but may, in a disturbed
state, perceive objects directly.
114 ATTENTION KODI:PIES SENSATION.
II. Objects perceived directly convey the same
impression with objects perceived through sensa-
tion ; therefore external objects are real.
III. The mind is capable of acting indepen-
dently of its organs ; therefore the mind may exist
without the body (aee Mayo on theNervO'UIISyatem).
-Since then it is so boldly declared that facts
from all quarters conduce to such important con-
clusions, it behoves the philosophic patiently to
examine the records containing them, and, as far
as possible, to test their truth by strict observation.
CHAPTER XIT.
THE FACULTY OF ABSTRACI'ION.
Ta:s preceding facts, being viewed in connexipn,
clearly prove that the mind is formed to be in
action when impressed, and that it does not grow
ont of sensations, but is qualified to avail itself
of their help in the acquisition of truth. In pro-
portion as we become acquainted with moral rela-
tions, we become conscious of responsibility, and
then our individuality takes its highest standing.
We perceive that on the direction of our voluntary
energies depends either our weal or our woe; be-
cause we possess the faculty of willing according
to our knowledge, and of fixing our attention on
objects according to the end we would attain.
Let us not however venture npon the metaphysical
quicksand, but turn to our common experience of
that condition of the thinking principle ia-which
we abstract our attention from surrounding ob-
jects, in order to fix it upon ideas existing in our
memory or imagination.
The same being that employs a certain set of
muscles for the accomplishment of its purposes,
116 :MENTAL ABSTRACTION.
also exercises a control over the faculties with
which his mind may be endowed, and to a great
extent directs their operations according to the
will, as long as the functions of the body allow.
Probably in a perfect state, as regards physical
accommodation, there would be no other limit to
the exercise of this commanding power over the
mental faculties than the necessary law of their
constitution as mental, so that we might recall at
will whatever passage of past experience we re-
quired to review, and, by the government of ideal
associations, compare fact with fact as might best
subserve the interests of our reason.
This power of reflecting on accumulated im-
pressions in detail, appears to be the distinguish-
ing characteristic of human intelligence. It is
possessed by different individuals in very various
degrees, and, like all our other endowments, may
be vastly improved by proper employment. In
some persons of acknowledged judgment, from
inordinate exercise or from morbid indisposition,
abstraction nevertheless becomes closely allied to
insanity.
In the practice of a~straction, such as it is, the
devotees of Budhism far excel our philosophers.
It is indeed the highest attainment of that super-
stition for persons so far to abstract themselves,
as to become unconscious of all external existence.
Thus we find individuals among them habitually
MENTAL ABSTRACTION. 117
submitting with the most profound composure to
inflictions and influences which, to ordinary mor-
tals, would induce the most terrible torment ; but
they really do not feel them, because they deter-
mine not to feel.
The Fakirs invert their eyes in silent contem-
plation on the ceiling, then gradually looking
down they fix both eyes, squinting at the tip of
the nose, until, as they say, the blessings of a
new light beam upon them. The Monks of Mount
Athos were accustomed, in a manner equally ri-
diculous and with the same success, to hold con-
verse, as they fancied, with the Deity. Allatius
thus describes the directions for securing the ce-
lestial joys of Omphalopsychian contemplation :-
"Press thy beard upon thy breast, turn thine eyes
and thoughts upon the middle of thine abdomen ; ·
persevere for days and nights, and thou shalt
know uninterrupted joys, when thy spirit shall
have found out thy heart and illuminated itself."
St. Augustin mentions a priest who could at will
fall into these ecstacies, in which his senses were
so forsaken by his soul as that he did not experi-
ence the pangs of the torture.
A modern astronomer passed a whole night in
the same attitude, observing a phenomenon in the
sky, and on being accosted by some of the family
in the morning, he said, "It must be thus; I
will go to bed before 'tis late !" He had gazed
ll8 MENTAL ABSTRACTION.
the whole night and did not know it. The mathe-
matician, Viote, was sometimes so absorbed by
his calculations that be has been known to pass
three days and three nights without food. It is
related of the Italian poet, Marini, that while be
was intensely engaged in revising his Adonis, be
placed his leg on the fire where it burnt for some
time without his being aware of it. The power
of the mind in withdrawing itself from sensation
can scarcely be more strongly exemplified.
If a man of the finest faculties yields his reason
to the fascinations of sensuality, he soon loses
control over the associations of his mind ; me-
mory and judgment necessarily become impaired.
Even a brief interruption to the habit of mental
withdrawal from objects of sense, renders a return
to abstraction a greater effort, especially if the
senses have in the interval been occupied by ob-
jects that powerfully excite the passions. Hence
we see the necessity of comparative sequestration,
and temperate management of the body to the
student's success, and hence too we leam that
diversity of objects is the natural remedy for
morbid abstraction. The case of Brindley, the
celebrated engineer, illustrates these observations.
His memory and abstraction were so great, that
although he could scarcely read or write, he exe-
cuted the most elaborate and complex plans as a
matter of course, without committing them to
MENTAL ABSTRACTION, 119
paper. But this power was so completely dis-
turbed after seeing a play, that he could not for
a long time afterwards, resume his usual punuits.
That degree of abstractedness which approaches
to dreaming is so essential to powerful intellectual
effort, that Dr. Macnish, iu his "Philosophy of
Sleep," includes all the higher exercises of genius
in his idea of dreaming. He says poems are wak-
ing dreams, the aristocratic indulgencies of the
intellect, the luxuries of otherwise unemployed
minds; Milton's Paradise Lost is but a sublime
hallucination, Michael Angelo's painting in the
Sistine Chapel are elaborated dreams. According
to this view of the subject the mind is most spi-
ritualized when least awake. But surely such a
conclusion is contrary to reason, for who can be-
lieve that voluntary mental abstraction is not
associated with vigilance of spirit, or that the
exercise of memory and imagination is not com-
patible with sound judgment? As well may we
say that, to look steadily over the past and thence
to anticipate the future, is but to dream, and
carefully to examine the way we have come and
the way we are going, is to prove ounelves sound
asleep. Reason acquires her proper dominion by
abstraction from the senses, by her use of memory
and imagination, or else there is no reality ; no
truth beyond bodily sensation. It is true that
the poetic imagination imbues the commonest cir-
120 MENTAL ABSTRACTION.
cumstances with a colouring which the- vulgar
miud regards as exaggerated, but yet the most
successful exercises of creative genius are remark-
able for their philosophic truthfulness, and the
mind which reasons abstractedly, that is while
voluntarily dissociated from the circumstances and
the senses of the body, is most conversant with
the great principles which connect all science, all
art, all moral and all physical relations, with the
truth that commends itself equally to the admiring
understanding and to the convicted conscience as
in the sight of God. Those whom sensualists have
deemed madmen and dreamers, have been the en-
lighteners of their race. They have ascended in
their thoughts out of the sight of the common
down-looking men ofthis world,and have held their
lamp of life to be relumed at the sun of another
and higher system, which cannot be reached by
telescopes, but is realized by faith. Divine Wis-
dom has created the mind of man of too expansive
a nature to be properly limited by the atmosphere
and attractions of earth, and of too inquisitive
and spiritual a capacity to be quite easy in believ-
ing only in the properties of matter. Those per-
sons really dream who see no further than the
surface; who realize nothing beyond the evidence
of the senses, and read not spiritually the mean-
ing of the grand panorama spread before their
eyes. But those are vividly and vigorously awake,
MENTAL ABSTRACTION. 121
who can withdraw themselves from sounds and
colours, that they· may reflect upon treasured
ideas, and interpret the mystery of their existence
by enjoying their spiritual faculties, in intercourse
with other minds and in communion with their
Eternal Parent.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE DJPPERENCE BETWEEN ABSENCE AND ABSTRACTION
OP MIND, AND THEIR RELATIONS TO THE STATE OF
THE WILL IN CONNEXION WITH THE BODY.
IT is well to consider the difference between ab-
sence and abstraction of mind. The former is a
mere morbid vacuity, a listless habit, or unmean-
ing dreaminess; the latter, a full and intent occu-
pation. Absence is much known in brown-study
and after dinner by the winter fire. It is also
common in church and in school, at lectures and
at lessons. But mental abstraction is an active
and self-absorbing process, in which a powerful
and cultivated will sustains the soul in that intel-
lectual exultation which constitutes the habit of
true genius. Absence of mind, like sleep, is
common to us all, but voluntary abstraction, to
the extent which is necessary to great excellence,
and for the purpose of enjoying truth or realizing
fiction, like the clainJoyance of mesmerism, is a
rare endowment, by which the possessor dwells,
as nearly as may be in consistence with bodily
life, in the purer region of the spirit. But there
is danger in all sublunary enjoyments. Intellec-
ABSENCE AND ABSTRACTION OP MIND. 123·
tua.l objects are often pursued to the very verge
of that abyss by which Omnipotence has wisely
limited the sphere of human thought, and thus
many perish as regards all the proper uses of their
present being, while distrust and discontent be-
come stamped upon their features and incorporated
with every atom of their substance. By boldly
venturing on speculative self-indulgence, they
madly leap the bounds of rational inquiry and
then quarrel with their God, because he is pleased
to surround creation with an outer darkness, in
which perverted reason, thus proudly endeavour-
ing to penetrate, becomes involved, perhaps for
ever. The history of every age, from that of
Eden to the present era, proves that the mental
faculties, as well as the grosser appetites to which
our fallen nature is subject, require the dominant
control of moral and religious principles for their
safe and happy exercise. Presumption plucks
only evil from the tree of knowledge, while in-
difference lies blighted even beneath the tree of
life. ·
Whe-n a person becomes addicted to the habit
of mental absence, he of course becomes more
and more infirm of purpose; his will has no em-
ployment in the control of his thoughts; his moral
as well as mental constitution is on the extreme
edge of danger; the total and eternal death of his
soul is at hand. The mind cannot be elevated
a2
124 A.BSENCE A.ND A.BSTRA.CTION OP MIND
above the gross air and night-hag hauntings of
sensuality, nor be endowed with the delight of
true freedom and power, unless objects are set
before it of a spiritual and eternally-enlarging
nature. If we understand not our relation to
other beings, we lose our interest in them, and
soon cease to be attracted towards them but by
sensual impulses. Human affection and intellect
both fail of their proper ends, unless reason be
employed in consecutive thought, that is, in com-
paring facts and deducing truths. The idle or
absent man is one who thinks not for himself as a
part of a grand community of minds. He cannot
be said to be educated. If his mind grow, it is
only, like a jungle-creeper, to encumber others.
His busiest thinkings are mere outlines of bodily
sensations. He owns no claims superior to his
own, no active charities dwell in his heart; his
faith, if he have any, is not, like God's gift, large
and beneficent, as all God's gifts are when duly
exercised, but all his affections are contracted and
centered in his little bodily self. He shrinks from
Christianity; its demands are too great for him, as
it requires intellectual agony and the crucifixion
of the lower self for the regeneration in glory of
the higher self. There must be the struggling
out of chaos into new creation by the spirit, but
he is satisfied with his own bubble and gazes only
on that till it bursts. He 1s miserably weak,
IN RELATION TO WILL. 12Q
because he has not been obedient to divine law,
which would have urged him, to triumph over cir-
cumstances and selfishness by acting, like a man,
with a worthy, because a rational, end in view;
for to seek aright for honor and immortality is
to cooperate with God.
The man of sequestered habits, indeed, rightly
demands our admiration, if, in the voluntary sur-
render of delightful sociality, the efforts of his
soul be directed to the contrivance and accom-
plishment of means to ameliorate the condition of
his fellow man; but the absurd trifler, who pre-
fers absence of mind from feebleness of will, or
because in his sickly pride he happens to have
disgusted himself with the common business of
earth, is unfit for friendship and incapable of love,
all his ideas of happiness arise and end in the
body, and the proper home of his spirit is the
dreary solitude which selfishness creates ; for if
the body be not kept under by proper employ-
ment of mind, reason yields to madness, and the
man is driven to the desert or among the tombs
by a legion of familiar spirits within him, which
can neither be bound nor dispossessed. This is
the frequent catastrophe of refusing to act for
eternity, by maintaining dominion over the body.
To the will, all knowledge appeals; and to
rectify its wandering tendencies, revealed truth
addresses our reason and demands our faith. Re-
126 ABSENCE AND ABSTRACTION OP lUND
ligion implies the belief of an unapprehended
series of realities, above our present nature, to
be hoped for and to be attained; because the very
announcement of these truths inspires a desire
that, as it grows, elevates us into the region to
which all true spiritual thought, feeling, and ac-
tion properly and alone belong. Let us reflect
then, again and again, that the power of directing
the attention by a voluntary process of abstraction
from those objects which invite the senses, for the
purpose of regarding ideas in the memory, con-
stitutes the distinctive characteristic of human
intellect; and that the superiority of one mind
over another is necessarily determined by the
degree in which this gift is granted and is culti-
vated. The will makes the man, and his future
history hangs on its present state.
When Newton was asked how he discovered the
system of the universe, he answered, "By think-
ing about it." This thinking to an end, is the
glory of mind. The power of fixing the intellect
on an object, and bringing all facts within our
knowledge, that by possibility relate to that ob-
ject, to elucidate it; and also the search after
new facts, with a presentiment of their existence,
prove that the human understanding is constituted
in keeping with the mind which contrived the
universe. Perceiving the reason of one fact, the
human intellect correctly infers the reason why
IN RELATION TO WILL. 127
other facts should be found. We find whatever
we reasonably look for. We naturally expect con-
sistency; for the plan of Omnipotence agrees with
:reason, it is pure reason. On this ground the
man of sagacity sets himself to think of a subject
with a faith in the powers of his mind; a con-
viction that, by continuing to attend to objects
of thought, he will see their connection and rela-
tion. Thus one thought awakes ten thous&Dd;
and these all move like an army in obedience to
one will and to one purpose. By urging our
attention with strenuous effort, higher and higher,
we triumph over the distractions of sense; and
in the calm above, to which the spirit climbs
through clouds and Alpine obstacles, the sky
appears as that of another world.
" All some strange thoughts transcend our wonted themes,
And into glory peep."-H. VaugAan.
Of course the moral perception must precede
and guide the intellectual faculty, or otherwise
the mind becomes meteoric and uncertain; being
excited into action, not according to a choice
induced by regard to moral results, but according
to accident, or as objects may happen to be more
or less pleasing or repulsive. In fact, it appears
that, unless the mind be employed in obedient
accordance to a higher will than that which be-
128 ABSENCE AND ABSTRACTION OP MIND
longs to itself, education or improvement, except
in a brutal or mechanical sense, is not possible.
Hence the necessity of a conscientious regard to
the dictates of divine will in order to advancement
in the understanding and enjoyment of the high-
est class of truths,-those which relate to the
proper uses of the body and to spirit, considered
as moral and religious. Here we see why the
wise of former ages, who possessed a strong rea-
son, although but a feeble glimmering of the
light, which the first tradition shed on the young
world, constantly looked for a coming revelation
concerning future existence; from which man
might more fully learn his duty towards God, and
thus reach further in his apprehension of immor-
tality, goodness and truth. Here then we arrive
at the point. However ingeniously men may
reason concerning the evolution of mind from
matter, they never can reconcile facts with their
theories, nor in any way account for the operations
of consciousness and volition, but by supposing
spiritual existence. It is however consolatory to
discover, that the more we investigate onr mental
and physical nature, the more reason we find to
receive, with implicit faith, the knowledge that is
brought to our minds in the book which bears on
its pages the demonstration of its being the re-
vealed information which the Maker of man con-
IN RELATION TO WILL, 129
descends in mercy to communicate to him, and
which, moreover, they who study wisely find to
be exactly of the kind they needed.
Without the individual endowment of will we
could not feel otherwise than as a part or a pro-
perty of another being; if, indeed, the very idea
of feeling does not imply a distinct personality in
that which feels. :But we all act, if not with the
conviction that we must answer for our deeds to
Him who has so variously endowed us, at least
with a feeling that we must all individually reap
the result of our own conduct, unless Omnipotence
interfere wit~ his own laws. None but a being
in some measure apprehending the mind of its
Maker, can be governed by moral laws, or be
made to feel as we all do, from an intuitive con-
viction, however disobeyed or however condemn-
ing, that the law, written on the heart by the
finger of God, is holy, just and good. This proves
that the human mind acknowledges no lasting
relationship with things that perish; for a man
that has been taught to love moral truth, cannot
afterwards be satisfied with defects : his will and
his love must seek for rest in moral perfection
and eternal life, that is, in God. We may then
well conclude this chapter in the language of Holy
Writ, and say, there i8 a spirit in man and the in-
spiration of the Almighty giveth him underatanding.
Law and conscience spring not from the dust.
o3
CHAPTER XIV.
THE ACTION OF MIND ON THE NERVOUS ORGANIZATION IN
MEMORY, &c.
THE operation of the soul upon the body, and the
incorporeal origifJ. and end of mind, will be fur-
ther rendered manifest by meditating on another
endowment, namely, memory. This, indeed, is
presupposed in the idea of abstraction ; since we
cannot contemplate or reflect unless the mind be
previously furnished with objects or the remem-
bered images of past impressions. We may dwell
the rather on this faculty as it is essential to the
exercise of thought, and must precede reasoning.
Hesiod said "the nine muses are the daughters
of Mnemosyne ;" and rightly does he thus deter-
mine, since without memory they never could
have existed, for every production of human in-
tellect has its origin in this faculty ; hence the
mind of the rational being is first exercised in
examining objects and enjoying sensations, since
the remembrance of these constitute the ground-
work of reflection and of forethought. The in-
fant's reason requires only familiarity with facts,
and the opportunity of comparing them with each
THE NERVOUS ORGANIZATION. 131
other, to become manifest and perfect. Thus it
happens that savage tribes and persons wholly
without education exhibit so many of the charac-
teristics of childhood.
It is not my purpose to investigate this faculty
in philosophical order, but to relate certain facts
in connexion with its exercise, which may assist
us in deducing further inferences concerning the
independence and management of the thinking
principle. Attention and association are generally
deemed essential to the memory, but experience
certainly proves that. its extent or capacity does
not entirely depend on what is commonly under-
stood by attention and association. At least we
find that, in many instances, we cannot detect
the association ; nor does it often appear that
facility of recollection is in proportion to the effort
to attend and to retain, but rather to the suit-
ability of the subject to the mental character and
habit of the individual.
A gentleman engaged in a banking establish-
ment made an error in his accounts, and, after
an interval of several months, spent days and
nights in vain endeavours to discover where the
Inistake lay. At length, worn out by fatigue, he ·
went to bed, and in a dream recollected all the
circumstances that gave rise to the error. He
remembered that on a certain day several persons
were waiting in the bank, when one individual,
132 THE ACTION OP MIND ON
who was a most annoying stammerer, became so
excessively impatient and noisy that, to get rid of
him, his money was paid before his turn, and the
entrance of this sum was neglected, and thus
arose the deficiency in the account. Now here
we have an instance of memory without associa-
tion ; because the ~pression was one of which
there was no consciousness at the time when it
occurred ; for the fact on which the case rested
was not his having paid the money but his having
neglected to insert the payment.
Our memory, as available for the common pur-
poses of intelligence, appears to be in proportion
to the interest we take in any subject by nature,
habit or education. We remember most distinctly,
according to the common law of association, those
things which relate to our chosen pursuits, or which
impress us through our keenest and most engross-
ing affections. We recall even the sufferings of
the body in connexion with some state of our
passions which those sufferings excited. Hence
the injurious effect of tyrannical punishments on
the youthful mind. Such arbitrary inflictions;
not being accompanied with a moral persuasion
of propriety and kind intention, engender slavish
fear and contempt. The despotic might that
wounds the body merely to enforce its will, is
necessarily despised; and while the body suffers
1,1nder it, terror and revenge are the only passions
THE NERVOUS ORGANIZATION. 133
excited ; for gentleness and love alone produce
repentance. The passions, excited by the punish-
ment, recur on the remembrance of the pain en-
dured; and thus a repetition of such punishment
makes either a coward or a villain, or more pro-
bably both; for fear and hatred become the habit
of every mind that suffers without the conviction
that justice and love are one.
There can be no doubt that ordinarily we best
remember what most strongly affects us, either
agreeably or otherwise. But this faculty is so
variously modified in different individuals, that
the effort or the enjoyment, which some find ne-
cessary to fix objects upon the mind; others feel
to be only impediments to the process. The late
Dr. Leyden, who could repeat·verbatim a long act
of parliament after having once read it, found
this kind of memory an inconvenience rather than
an advantage, because he could never recollect
any particular point in the act without repeating
to himself all that preceded the part he required.
The memory of reasoning is strong in propor-
tion to the distinctness of apprehension and the
linking together of accordant ideas. We hold
most firmly what we grasp most completely. The
memory of sensation is generally proportioned to
the acuteness of sensation, but a rapid succession
of ideas is constantly obliterating previous im-
pressions, by stamping'new ones. Yet it appears
184 THE ACTION OP MIND ON
from facts that, the impressions always remain
distinct in the mind, and require only a proper
condition to be so perceived and read off in the
order in which they were received. The manner
also in which the acquisition is made, greatly in-
fluences the power of retention and of reproduc-
tion. Thus, under the urgency of a pressing
occasion, a celebrated actor prepared himself for
a new, long and difficult part, in a surprisingly
short space of time. He performed it with per-
fect accuracy, but the performance was no sooner
over than every word was forgotten ; at least no
effort could recall them, although doubtless they
were retained, and would return to the perception
of the mind under favourable circumstances.
:But it should be understood that there are se-
veral leading phenomena referable to the head
of memory. There is the simple latent retention
of whatever impression on the senses conveys
to the mind, which constitutes memory strictly
speaking. There is recollection, or the voluntary
reproduction of those impressions, and there is
conception such as the painter or the poet evinces,
who accurately and vividly delineates past occur-
rences, absent friends .and remembered scenes,
with the force of present reality. The performer,
before-mentioned, doubtless possessed the memory
of the part he acted, although he could never
afterwards recall it. He recollected other charac-
THE NERVOUS ORGANIZATION. 135
ters well, because they were deliberately acquired.
The power of memory in connexion with associa-
tion appears to be influenced by the direction and
intensity of the will, that is to the degree and
kind of attention required : perhaps the state of
our affections has more to do with this faculty
than with any other. Recollection is of vast im-
portance to our common intercourse, but abstract
memory is probably more important to the actual
education of the soul; since the memory, which
is altogether latent and concealed under one set
of circumstances, becomes active and useful under
.another. Like certain pictures, they appear and
disappear according to the direction of the light.
The reproduction of impressions in that exercise
or condition of mind called conception, affords
very striking evidence that ideas once received
are as it were stereotyped on the memory. They
are not painted in fading colours but seem only
to require a certain disengagedness of the atten-
tion from other objects to be again perceived as
vividly as ever. Thus we see the reason why
seclusion and mental abstraction are so naturally
sought, when we wish to recall the past, or stu-
diously to review a subject with which we have
been familiar. By voluntary effort we put our-
selves into the most favourable position for the
retrospect ; for we are endowed with a conscious-
ness that the images and perceptions at any time
136 THE ACTION OP MIND ON
experienced still belong to us, and may again be
felt, if the impressions of the present could but
be removed from before the eye of mind. The
obstacles to this spiritual sight are often as it were
accidentally dissipated, and the past assumes all
its pristine reality ; a beautiful example of which
occurs in the life ofNiobuhr, the celebrated Danish
traveller, "When old, blind, and so infirm, that
he was able only to be carried from his bed to his
chair, he used to describe to his friends the scenes
which he had visited in his early days with won-
derful minuteness and vivacity. When they ex-
pressed their astonishment, he told them that as
he lay in bed, all visible objects being shut out,
the p1ctures of what he had seen in the east con-
tinuaJly floated before his mind's eye, so that it
was no wonder he could speak to them as if he
had seen them yesterday. With like vividness
the deep intense sky ofAsia, with its brilliant and
twinkling host of stars, which he had so often
gazed at by night, or its lofty vault of blue by
day, was reflected in the hours of stillness and
darkness on his inmost soul."*
This may perhaps be considered as an example
of the highest degree of healthy conception ; that
is, the voluntary abstraction of the mind allowing
the past to appear in its original order and clear-
*Dr. Abercrombie.
THE NERVOUS ORGANIZATION. 137
ness. That remarkable phenomenon which drown-
ing persons and others on the verge of death have
often been known to experience, belongs to the
same property of the soul, for they have described
the state of their memories under these mysterious
circumstances, as representing the history of their
lives, at once and altogether like a vast tableau
vivant. But, probably, an approach to this sight
of our realized existence, more or less confused
with our consciousness of the present, is essential
to the exercise of memory : a certain state of
mind associates past ideas with certain sights and
sounds, and we mentally again perceive the past
as if present.
Something like this leads to that.state on which
depends the theory of apparitions or spectral illu-
sions, which seem to be only a more disjointed
attention to reality or obliviousness of the present;
thus allowing former impressions to re-appear as
they occur in dreaming, the senses not being in a
state of sufficient activity to prevent ideas from
infringing on them.
The following is another illustration of concep-
tion, almost as striking as the foregoing. "In
the church of St. Peter, in Cologne, the altar
piece is a large and valuable picture of Rubens,
representing the martyrdom of the Apostle. This
picture having been carried away by the French,
in 1805, to the great regret of its inhabitants, a
188 TBJ: ACTION OP KIND ON
painter of that city undertook to make a copy of
it from recollection, and succeeded in doing so in
such a manner that the most delicate tints of the
original are preserved with the most minute accu-
raq. The original painting has now been re-
stored, but the copy is preserved along with it,
and even when they are rigidly compared, it is
scarcely possible to distinguish the one from the
other."
The images of objects seem to be actually re-
produced before the eye of the mind by a volun-
tary effort, in every exercise of recollection ; and,
what is very surprising, the images thus repro-
duced by the will sometimes continue to obtrude
themselves, even on the bodily sense, when the
mind would fain dismiss them, so as to assume
that real appearance of the object thought of,
which induces weak-minded persons to think that
they have seen supernatural apparitions. Thus a
gentleman, mentioned by Dr. Hibbert, having
been told of the sudden death of a friend, saw
him distinctly when he walked out in the evening.
" He was not in his usual dress, but in a coat of
a ditferent colour, which he had left oft' wearing
for some months. I could even remark a figured
vest which he had wom about the same time, also
a coloured silk handkerchief around his neck, in
which I had used to see him in the morning."
The power of the mind to embody whatever it
THB NERVOUS ORGANIZATION. 189
strongly conceives, is strikingly demonstrated in
those cases in w~ich a number of persons have
imagined themselves to have seen the same appa-
rition. Thus a whole ship's crew were thrown
into consternation by the ghost of the cook, who
had died a few days before. He was distinctly
seen by them all, walking on the water with a
peculiar gait by which he was distinguished, one
of his legs being shorter than the other. The
cook, so plainly recognized, was only a piece of
old wreck. In such instances, which are common,
it is manifest that the mind so impresses the sense
of sight with past realities, that it perceives only
what imagination presents.
" Such tricks hath strong imagination,
That, if it would but apprehend some joy,
It comprehends some bringer of that joy ;
Or, in the night imagining some fear,
How easy is a bush snpposed a bear."-SM.bptare.
Now it is clear, from every example of recollec-
tion, that ideas do not affix themselves in any
structure of the body, for every atom of it is suc-
cessively removed in the processes of vital action.
A man's body does not continue to exist of the
same identical materials ; therefore it follows, as
an inevitable conclusion, that memory is not a
record written there ; the store of ideas must be-
long to an independent unchanging being; for
140 THE ACTION 01" MIND ON
whenever they are reproduced they are found un-
altered, and must therefore have existed in that
which does not change, namely, the undecaying
soul.
Those things which belong to our moral being
most powerfully affect ourminds, and most strongly
cleave even to our ordinary memory; and if it
were not so, religious truth could not regenerate
the world. Mr. Moffat, the missionary, says, that
when he had concluded a long sermon to a great
number of African savages, his hearers divided
into companies to talk the subject over. "While
thus engaged my attention was arrested by a sim-
ple-looking young man at a short distance. The
person referred to was holding forth with great
animation to a number of people, who were all
attention. On approaching, I found, to my sur-
prise, that he was preaching my sermon over
again, with uncommon precision and with great
solemnity, imitating as nearly as he could the
gestures of the original. A greater contrast could
scarcely be conceived, than the fantastic figure
and the solemnity of his language: his subject
being eternity, while he evidently felt what he
spoke. Not wishing to disturb him, I allowed
him to finish the recital, and seeing him soon
after, told him, that he could do what I was sure
I could not,-that was, preach again the same
sermon verbatim. He did 'not appear vain of his
THE NERVOUS ORGANIZATION. 141
superior memory: 'When I hear anything great,'
he said, touching his forehead with his finger, 'it
remains there.' "
Thi!$ anecdote affords us an interesting evidence
that memory, in connexion with the intuitive
appreciation of vast truths, is characteristic of
savage as well as civilized man ; in short, it shows
that the mind was created for truth, and to be
governed by it. The rapid and immense improve-
ment in the social and religious condition of these
and other degraded tribes of mankind, under the
persuasive operation of doctrines calculated to
direct the will, especially by their hold upon the
memory, and thence to inspire the conduct with
commanding and ennobling motives, is a beau-
tiful fact ; at once proving the fitness of the
Christian doctrines for the moral constitution of
man, and the unreasonableness of that philo-
sophy which, in spite of the world's experience,
attempts to teach us that the brain of a man
must be remodelled before he can be mentally
regenerated. If this be true, what a sudden
development of new organs or new activities of
brain must have happened in the South Sea
Islands, and what a new state of cranium must
the sensual atheist experience, who, by a flash
of thought, is struck from his elevation of self-
conceit and self-adoration into an humble con-
viction of dependance on his God and SaviourI
142 THE ACTION OP KIND ON
Man's spiritnal natnre is rooted in his know-
ledge or memory, and as be believes 80 will be
act ; as be receives troth, 80 is be influenced;
and troth penetrates like the sword of the Spirit,
opening every mind that it strikes for the recep-
tion of a world of new realities. Let the will
be arrested and the attention fixed to look upon
the Gospel, and its grandenr becomes manifest
and influential. As, when a man like Newton,
having the idea of gravitation forced upon his
attention, gradually beholds the universe bang-
ing together and in motion thereby, and makes
all his calculations in keeping with that know-
ledge ; so the Christian sees in one grand truth
the harmonizing power of all worlds, and calcu-
lates only on the force of love as the governing
principle of heaven.
A man never forgets, however be may neglect,
the truth which he has willingly admitted to his
mind as a ruling principle, that is, a truth com-
mended to his conscience. As the poor Mrican
said, "When I bear anything great it remains ;"
so whatever we feel to be morally true will cleave
either to torment or to delight us, according to
its natnre, and according to onr felt obedience
to the master truths-the demands of God upon
onr being.
Memory then is not the spontaneous action of
an apparatus, like Babbage's calculating machine,
THE NERVOUS ORGANIZATION. 143
with figures that revolve in endless combination.
It is a state of mind. Mind produces it. Even
those figures, thus revolving and combining,
existed in all their power of infinite reproduction
in the mind that conceived the method of thus
evolving tt numbers beyond number numberless,"
from the transpositions and combinations of only
nine remembered units. Thus, perhaps, from the
vast but limited multitude of ideas derived from
the impressions in time, eternity may be filled
with thoughts. The order and happiness result-
ing from their endless multiplication will depend
on the few regulating principles which God has
given to us in his law, and if this continue to be
broken, the confusion and misery of our spirits
will be as endless as our capacity of thinking.
CHAPTER XV.
~HB CONNEXION OF MEMORY WITH THE HABIT AND CON-
DITION OF THE BRAIN, AND THE USE OF THE BODY.
INTIMACY with facts and things in their ~utual
influence on each other, constitutes our individual
world of knowledge, and this acquaintance with
circumstances or things, remains in our minds
without a necessary connexion with language.
Ideas must generally be presented by words from
one mind to another in this state of being ; but,
that ideas once produced exist in the mind, in-
dependently of their conventional associates, is
testified by a great variety of facts, especially in
the history of disease, as it affects the manifesta-
tion of the mind ; and this it does, more or less,
in every instance, as we have already seen ; be-
cause what is called health is nothing more than
the state of body best adapted for the exercise
and training of the soul in its intercourse with
the material world. Memory, like all other
mental manifestation, is suspended by pressure
on the brain, and in fact by anything which
powerfully disturbs its functions ; hence it is
THE CONNEXION OP MEMORY, ETC. 145
presumed by some physiologists that memory
has no existence but as a function of the brain,
and many wonderful cases of recovery from ce-
rebral injury, with restoration of this faculty,
are referred to in proof that the brain is the sole
cause of remembrance. The brain of course is
necessary to conscious existence, such as we
experience, and therefore of course it is essential
to memory in connexion with the active mani-
festation of this life; but yet the very facts which
are quoted as evidences that memory is a function
of the brain, also afford us positive proof that
it is something more.
I knew an intelligent lady, who suddenly lost
all association between ideas and language·. She
became as completely destitute of speech as a
new-born infant. Under medical treatment,
however, she gradually recovered ; she again
learned to speak, read, and write, just as a child
learns, until some months after the attack, when
her former information and faculty rapidly re-
turned. She told me that her remembrance of
facts was as clear as ever during this speechless
state,-all she had lost was language. Even her
recollection of music was perfect, and she per-
formed elaborate pieces with her accustomed
skill, although not a single idea in her mind
could present itself in words. She soon after-
a
146 CONNEXION OP KEKOBY WITH THE
warda died suddenly of apoplexy, and the cause
of the impediment was then proved to exist in
disease of the brain.
A degree of this disorder occurs when the
brain has suffered from fatigue, as in the case
of Spalding, a celebrated scholar in Germany,
who being called on to write after great exertion
and distraction of mind, found himself incapable .
of proceeding correctly beyond the first two
words. The characters he continued to make
were not what he meant, but he knew not where
the fault lay. His speech failed in the same
manner; he spoke other words than he intended,
although he knew everything around him, and
his senses continued perfect. On resting and
refreshing his nervous system the confusion was
removed.
This loss of association between words and
ideas is often observed in paralytics. It is pro-
bable that persons labouring under such malady
are always conscious that the sounds they utter
are unintelligible to those whom they address,
and their distress is greatly aggravated by the
fact. This was the case with the lady just men-
tioned. Patients are rarely able to give us a
distinct account of their sensations under such
circumstances• . Dr. Hollond, however, also re-
lates an instance to the point, in which loss of
memory and articulation of words followed an
HABIT AND CONDITION OF THE BRAIN. 147
accident in an aged gentleman. " He could not
remember the names of his servants; nor, when
wishing to express his wants to them, could he
find right words to do so. He was conscious of
uttering unmeaning sounds, and reasoned on the
singularity at the time, as he afterwards stated.''
The organs influenced by the will are more or
less disordered when the power of recollection is
morbidly defective, as in palsy. This disease is
accompanied by an unsteadiness and tremor, or
rigidity of the muscles, as well as an incapacity
of fixing the attention. There is some interfer-
ence with the muscular sense, by which we pre-
pare ourselves for the use of our other senses.
Here it may not be inappropriate to observe
the cot).nexion between attention, memory, and
muscular action. All the voluntary activities of
our bodies are modified by the state of our memo-
ries in relation to our senses, more particularly
to the muscular sense, or that feeling by which
we regulate our movements in regard to gravita-
tion and avoid danger. Although we seem not
to attend to our ordinary muscular actions, yet
we really do attend to them and in fact exercise a
power of comparison in every intentional move-
ment. We walk according to our experience in
the use of our legs and feet, and we handle ob-
jects as we have before felt. We balance our
muscles instinctively in every effort according to
H2
148 CO:NNEDON OP KEKORT WITH THE
the neceuity which former circumstances may
have suggested. We take not a cup iu our
hand without previously preparing ourselves, and
the will braces the muscles for the purpose, in
keeping with our preconceived notion of the
weight of the body to be lifted. Let a person,
unacquainted with its weight, attempt to take up
a cup of mercury, and he will probably spill its
contents. Other complicated and rapid movements
of the hand, in the delicate execution of'works
of art and manufacture, require an apt and ready
memory, as well as a well-trained and active hand.
An impairment of memory destroys the steady
quickness that is required. We find that, in the
cotton mills, the activities of the brain are tried
to such a degree by steam and ingenuity, that
certain movements of the machinery can only be
followed by persons possessed of quick memory
and corresponding nervous energy ; and hence
that these parts of the work can only be accom-
plished or tolerated by individuals from puberty
to manhood; because, at that period alone is the
association between memory and action sufficiently
electric to suit the market.
Mental education improves the grace and ex-
pressiveness of the body, at least of the features,
to so great an extent as to be commonly acknow-
ledged as a powerful cause of the influence which
men maintain over each other. The specific dis-
HABIT AND CONDITION OF THE BRAIN. 149
tinction between an educated and an uneducated
man is in the power of reflection; the memory of
the former having been trained, that of the latter
being left wild. This training of memory affects
the whole tone, character, and bodily deportment
of a man. A.a a voluntary effort of memory is
attended by a peculiar fixedness of the body, and
a steadiness of the senses, which are necessary to
preserve the attention to associated ideas, the
habit of this effort imparts a deliberative expres-
sion to the features, and causes even a man's
muscular movements to partake of the more mea-
sured and sedate tendency of his mind. Hence
also it may fairly be concluded, that one who has
been accustomed rationally to apply this faculty,
is better qualified to control his instincts, to govern
his passions, and to regulate all those impulses
which spring immediately from his physical con-
stitution. Hence too, natural philosophers, men
who remember, collect and think on facts, are
less disposed to insanity, than are poets and per-
sons who delight in imagination without an or-
derly and proper cultivation of memory. In short,
proper application of this endowment is the foun-
dation of physical as well as mental and moral
improvement. Those nations have the best formed
heads who have been possessed of the best histories
or traditions, and who have been called to the
highest exercise of memory ; for in this consists
150 CONNEXION OF MEMORY, ETC.
the principal means of advancing the arts of civil-
ization and of maintaining the dominion of truth
and religion both over mind and body. The very
act of acquiring, recording, or recollecting true
knowledge, is attended by a state of brain and a
sobriety of manner which tend at once to embody,
impersonate, and fix its advantages in the indi-
vidual so employed, and to perpetuate the benefit
in his offspring. If therefore the increase of
schools did nothing more than demand a general
employment of youthful memory in acquiring
truth, it would accomplish immense good, for
this is always associated more or less with control
of the body, and it will moreover be the ground-
work of right reason when coming circumstances
shall require severer exercise of intellect.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE INFLUENCE OF MENTAL HABIT ON THE CHARACTER OF
THE MEMORY.
IT is remarkable that persons endowed with an
energetic and busy imagination have been fre-
quently most defective as regards verbal memory,
at least in the power of recollecting words. Thus
Rousseau and Coleridge always found it difficult
to remember even a few verses, although composed
by themselves. The reason seems to be, that
their minds quickly caught hold of the ideas ex-
pressed and at once associated them with others,
much in the same manner that we find delirious
persons do under certain conditions of the nervous
system; the powers of perception being entire,
but the attention being occupied by mental objects
rather than sensible ones, as already described
under the head of abstraction. The nervous sys-
tem of such persons is employed in other relations
than those best adapted to the use of memory.
The celebrated Porson was a man of a contrary
stamp. Recollection was the habit of his mind,
and his life was a mixed commentary on profane
152 INFLUENCE OP :MENTAL HABIT ON
and sacred learning, and his genius was like a
phosphorescence on the graves of the dead. It
is said of him that nothing came amiss to his
memory." He would set a child right in his two-
penny fable book, repeat the whole of the moral
tales of the Dean of Badajoz, a page of Athenreus
on cups, or of Eustathius on Homer. He could
bring to bear at once on any question every pas-
sage from the whole range of Greek literature
that could elucidate it; and approximate on the
instant the slightest coincidence in thought or
expression; and the accuracy was quite as surpris-
ing as the extent of his recollection." This facility
was the result of early and continued habit.
Dr. Arnold had a remarkable memory. He
quoted from Dr. Priestley's Lectures on History,
when in the professor's chair at Oxford, from the
recollection of what he had only read when no
more than eight years of age. His memory ex-
tended to the exact state of the weather on par-
ticular days, or the exact words and position of
passages which he had not seen for twenty years.
This faculty was more particularly acute on sub-
jects of history and geography, from the early
h~bit of exercising it o~ these subjects; having
been taught to go accurately through the stories
of the pictures and portraits of the successive
English reigns before he was eight years old, and
being at that age accustomed to recognize at a
THE CHARACTER OF TH£ MEMORY, 153
glance the different counties of a dissected map
of England.
The power of memory, provided the brain be
in a healthy state, will be proportionec) to the
determination with which an individual attends
to the subject he would remember; that is, in pro-
portion to the motive. Iffancy interfere, memory
is disturbed. This strength of purpose has always
characterized those who have been celebrated for
power of memory, and this will of course mainly
arise from the feeling of importance which habit
or teaching may attach to the object in view.
Thus Cyrus is said to have learned the name of
every soldier in his army, that he might be able
to command them the better; and Mithridates,
for the same reason, became acquainted with the
languages of the twenty-two nations serving under
his banners. It is stated by Eusebius that Esdras
restored the sacred Hebrew Volumes by memory,
when they had been destroyed by the Chaldeans.
St. Anthony, the Egyptian hermit, could not
read, but knew all the Scriptures by heart from
having heard them. Pope Clement V. impaired
his memory from a fall on the head; but by dint
of application he recovered its powers so com-
pletely, that Petrarch informs us that he never
forgot anything that he had once perused.
Are we to conclude that this principle of the
mind assumes varieties of manifestation, according
H3
154 INPLUENC.B OP MENTAL HABIT ON
to the facility which different conformations of
brain or sense afford; or are we to infer that mind
is created with diversified degrees and kinds of
this capacity? Facts point to the conclusion that
the manifestation of memory is modified by the
state of the nervous system in relation to the
power of attending. Hence memory is matured
by habit; for, in order to a perfect reminiscence,
the mind must act upon the nervous organization
in such a manner as to excite in it a sense of the
images reoalled. This is sometimes so powerfully
excited, that we unintentionally imitate in our
action that which we would describe. Circum-
stantial signs are associated in our ideas, and they
often produce the effect, not only in our minds
but in our features. Thus Descartes, being fondly
in love with a girl who squinted, never spoke of
her without squinting.
If the brain be occupied or excited by disease,
or distracted by mental perturbation, the will
has but little power in directing the attention
either to the recollection of past impressions or
to the observation of things present. A man is
then said to be discomposed; the healthy order of
his thoughts is broken, his memory is confused,
his attention disturbed.
The habit of using the mind in any particular
direction, or on any class of objects, gives a pro-
minence and readiness to that part of the nervous
THE CHARACTER OP THE HEHOR't, 155
system which is called into exercise, and therefore
the memory employed in daily reasoning is facile
in proportion to habit, as long as we continue in
health. The habit of mind then actually alters
the condition and power of the instruments of
mental manifestation ; and, within certain limits,
qualifies it for use, according to the extent-and
kind of demand made upon it; thus proving,
beyond controversy, that ordinary memory de-
pends on mental determination in the use of a
healthy organization. The power itself originates
in that which attends, intends, wills, and not in
that which is acted on by the will. Seeing then
that mental confusion arises from inaptitude of
the brain, as relates to the senses under the
action of the will, we may fairly conclude that
when the will shall act only in that which retains
ideas, and deals with pure memory, there will be no
confusion, but that all experienced facts will stand
clearly in their exact order as originally presented.
As we advance in this subject we shall discover
further reason for this conclusion.
However excellent the development of a man's
brain may be, he will be incapable of exercising
his faculties to good purpose unless he is habi-
tuated to their control under the excitement of
moral motives. The brain does not respond to
the demands of reason but by degrees. It is not
brought into a state suitable to the proper mani-
156 .INFLUENCE OP MENTAL HABIT ON
festation of our faculties but by long habits. In
fact the brain is not fully developed, as the instru-
ment or medium of intellect, unless the mind
have been regularly educated and drawn out by
appropriate employment during the period of its
growth. The will, in exercising attention while
acquiring knowledge and in reflection, that is,
in using memory, really produces such a change
in the size and order of the nervous fibrils of the
brain, as to render it better and better adapted
for use, as long as the laws of its formation allow
or until disease interfere. We find then, instead
of mind and memory resulting from brain, that
brain, as far as it has relation to the i:nind, is
developed and regulated in subserviency to the
will ; for however good the natural formation
of a child's brain may be, he must grow up an
idiot if his will be not called into action by moral
influences ; that is, by sympathy with other spirits.
The histories of Caspar Hauser, Peter the wild
boy, and others, elucidate this subject and confirm
this conclusion.
The desperate shifts to which materialists are
driven to avoid an acknowledgment of spiritual
existence, appears most palpably in their endea-
vours, physiologically, to account for memory.
They say, sensation is the only source of faculty.
But then they fail to show what experiences sen-
sation. They add, sensation would be sterile, un-
THE CHARACTER OP THE MEMORY. 157
productite ofwill and memory, if it did not remain
impressed on the tissue of the brain, so as to be
found after many years. All we see, hear, feel,
taste, conceive,-is, say they, incorporated and
constitutes part and parcel of our brains. What
"a book and volume" a well-stored brain must be,
all alive with indelible sensations I This theory,
like many others, is indebted to poetry rather than
logic, and it certainly was stolen from Shakspeare,
who makes Hamlet thus philosophically promise
the ghost of his royal father :-
" Yea, from the table of my memory
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records ;
All saws of books, all forms of pleasures past,
That youth and observation copied there ;
And thy commandment all alone shall live
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Unmix'd with baser matter."
But it is surmised that the great dramatist in-
tended, in the character of Hamlet, to represent a
philosophical, poetical madman; and this theory
of memory certainly appears well to become such
a character; especially as he, at the same time,
attributes a supremacy to the individual's will
which it does not and cannot possess; for however
we may desire it, to wipe away the record, however
fond or trivia], is impossible, although we may
indeed become for a time unconscious of its exist-
158 INFLUENCE OP KENTAL HABIT ON
ence by a full occupation of the mind on new
objects of thought.
It must, however, be acknowledged, that the
material hypothesis of memory has been presented
in so beautiful a manner as to fascinate, if not to
satisfy, the undentanding. We need not be sur-
prised at the almost infinite ideas which may be
interwoven into the fibrils of the brain, since
microacopic observers assure us that the smallest
visible point of its substance ia not more than the
l-8000th of an inch in diameter, it ia therefore
estimated that 8000 ideas may be represented on
every square inch of the thinking nerve-matter;
so that, considering the large surface of such
matter in man, he may be supposed in this manner
capable of receiving some millions of simple ideas
or impressions. It seems vain to say, as do some
advocates of this notion, that such broad methods
of accounting for ideas do not favour materialism.
Surely, if ideas exist only in the brain and spinal
marrow, to die is to lose them. But let us en-
quire what is an idea 7 It is a mind-act, which can-
not be but in a conscious being. Something
more than atoms must be required for the pro-
duction and recognition of our mental impres-
sions; something consenting-besides brain. As
images on the retina are not ideas until a man
attend to them, for he does not see them while his
mind is intently engaged about other things, so
THE CHARACTER OP THE MEMORY. 159
whatever may exist actively or passively in the
brain, affects not the consciousness till the mind
is in correspondence with it. Conceive a man,
say Milton, using imagination, memory, judg-
ment, day after day, until the body is no longer
convenient. He choses, observe, to "justify the
ways of God to man," but he does not meditate
on knowledge really belonging to himself, but on
the play of nerve-fibrils, which put him in mind of
the past and present ; for they in fact contain all
his ideas, all his works, his experience, emotions,
affections, thoughts. Now, if such be true, what
was Milton when his body died? Is there no
answer? Yes I As that immortal spirit, when
present in a commodious body saw the "Paradise
Lost " in the light which shone amidst his dark-
ness, so that same spirit, endowed with larger love
and liberty and intellect, walks with God in the
" Paradise Regained." His knowledge and in-·
wrought history did not perish in the grave.
Supposing that sensation and ideas were capable
of being engraved, or cast, or daguereotyped on
the leaves of the brain, the question still returns,
what perceives them there? The only possible
answer is supplied in the Sacred Scripture : " No
man knoweth the things of a man, but the spirit
of man which is in him." The recurrence of the
same ideas is only the recurrence of the same state
in that which thinks, but of course the same state
160 INPLUENCE OP MENTAL HABIT ON
in ordinary manifestation implies the return of
similar relations with regard to objects of atten-
tion. To experience exactly the same state of
mind, we must exactly recall the past impressions
in their original order, or we must be placed again
in precisely the same circumstances in regard to
the brain and the senses. A case will illustrate
this observation. It may be found at full in the
"Assembly Missionary Magazine." The Reve-
rend William Tennant, while conversing in Latin
with his brother, fainted and apparently died.
His friends were invited to his funeral ; but his
physician, examining the body, thought he per-
ceived signs of life : he remained in this state of
suspended animation for three days longer, when
his family again assembled to the funeral, and,
while they. were all sitting around him, he gave a
heavy groan and was gradually restored. Some
time after his resuscitation he observed his sister
reading: he asked what she had in her hand.
She answered "a Bible:" he replied, "what is a
Bible?" He was found to be totally ignorant of
every transaction of his past life. He was slowly
taught again to read and write, and afterwards
began to learn Latin under the tuition of his
brother. One day while he was reciting a lesson
from " Cornelius Nepos,'' he suddenly felt a shock
in his head. He could then speak the Latin fluently
as before his illness, and his memory was in all
THE CHARACTER OP THE MEMORY. 161
respects completely restored. His brain was no
longer so diseased or disordered in its circulation
as to prevent his mind from returning to its
former relations. Objects again excited their ap-
propriate associations with recorded ideas, and he
recollected what he previously knew; his will was
as capable of acting on his brain as it did when
acquiring Latin at first, his nervous system was
again obedient.
CHAPTER XVII.
THB CONNEXION OP MEMORY WlTB DOUBLE
CONSCIOUSNESS.
ALTHOUGH memory is evinced in very different de-
grees and under various modifieations in different
individuals, we must not conclude that this en-
dowment is essentially diversified in its nature
and extent, as it appears to be. Many facts tend
to prove, that persons may possess large stores of
recorded impressions without being aware of it.
Perhaps every image or idea received through the
senses is really so preserved that, under circum-
stances yet to come, they may each and every
one be perceived and recognized in their proper
cennexion with each other, so as to enable the
corrected and unclouded reason hereafter to read
the wisdom and providence of God as permanently
written in the minutest circumstances of each
one's experience, to discem distinctly the etemal
contrariety between trnth and falsehood, good
and evil; to trace their operation on the mind, to
perceive how the human will is rendered respon-
sible by knowledge, and how hopes and efforts
are excited by mental associations, and, conse-
THE CONNEXION OP MEMORY, ETC. 163
quently, how just and beautiful is the royal law
of loving our neighbours as ourselves. In short
we may hereafter be able to understand the force
of circumstances in the development of character,
the full weight of education and accountableness,
and from the intelligence growing out of the feel-
ing and reflection of the past, to converse without
restraint with higher or more advanced intelli-
gences, and to exercise our faculties aright in new
and loftier regions, where we shall learn that our
living spirits have been exposed in this world of
trial and darkness to nothing accidental, to no-
thing trivial; but that other spirits have been
permitted to be busy with our sensations and ideas
for specific purposes of temptation, in just relation
to our own moral state, for spiritual exaltation,
or even, may we not say, for the more mysterious
abandonment of the soul to evil; thereby the
better to exhibit the awful sublimity of divine
government, "which will ultimately subdue to the
vengeance of love the most opposing elements,
and render darkness itself the medium of glory.
We know that persons may, during sleep and
in certain conditions of disease, exercise a me-
mory of which they are wholly unconscious in
their waking hours, or while enjoying ordinary
health ; in short, a memory which has no purpose
in connexion with present existence.
There is an illustrative case related by Dr. Dyce,
164 THE CONNEXION OP MEMORY
of Aberdeen. The patient was an ignorant ser-
vant girl, and the affection began with fits of
sleepiness, which came suddenly upon her. After
these paroxysms had been frequently renewed,
she began to talk a great deal during their ·con-
tinuance, without being sensible of anything that
was passing about her. In this state she on one
occasion distinctly repeated the baptismal service
of the Church of England, and concluded with
an extemporary prayer. In her case a circum~
stance was remarked, which in other instances
has also been observed, namely, that she perfectly
recollected during the paroxysm what took place
in former paroxysms, though she had no remem-
brance of it during the intervals. This is exactly
what occurs in many cases of insanity and deli-
rium. I have frequently conversed with persons
under both forms of disorder, during fits of ex-
citement, and have found them perfectly at home
concerning fancies and impressions ·which passed
before their minds while conversing with me in
previous paroxysms; but, in their lucid periods,
their whole existence during the fits was quite a
blank to them.
Dr. Pritchard mentions a lady who was liable
to sudden attacks of delirium. They often com-
menced while she was engaged in interesting con-
versation ; and on such occasions it happened that,
on her recovery from the state of delirium, she
WITH DOUBLE CONSCIOUSNESS. 165
instantly recurred to the conversation she was
engaged in at the time of the attack. To such a
degree was this carried on, that she could even
complete an unfinished sentence. During one
paroxysm she would pursue the train of ideas
which had occupied her mind in a former fit.
The human spirit uses the brain as long as this
organ is fit for its purposes, and therefore conscious
associated memory is the result of mental action
on the brain; and whenever the thinking princi-
ple is remembering and directed to the body and
its senses, there is probably a reproduction of that
very state of nerve or of brain which accompanied
the first impression of each remembered idea ;
and, probably, the brain being again put in the
same condition or nearly so, by any cause, as for
instance by a stimulus, would facilitate the act
of the mind in recalling any impression which
had occurred in a similar state of brain ; because
a return of this state is necessary while mind is
acting with the senses.
Dr. Abercrombie relates the following case, on
the authority of a respectable clergyman of the
Church of England, which aptly illustrates this
point. A young woman of the lower rank, aged
19, became insane. She was gentle, and applied
herself eagerly to various operations. Before her
insanity, she had learned to read and form a few
letters, but during her insanity she taught herself
166 THE CQNNEXION OP :MEMORY
to write perfectly, though all attempts to teach
her had failed, as she could not attend. She had
intervals of reason, which frequently continued
for three weeks or longer, during which she could
neither write nor read; but immediately on the
return of her insanity, she recovered her power
of writing and reading perfectly.
Other cases might be related, on the best autho-
rity, in which individuals have, during one state,
retained all their original knowledge, but during
the other state, that only which had been acquired
after the first attack. The following history, ab-
breviated from Dr. Abercrombie's statement, will
further illustrate the fact that memory, as well as
other faculties, may exist to a greater extent than
our ordinary use of recollection would warrant us
to suppose. A girl, seven years of age, employed
in tending cattle, was accustomed to sleep in an
apartment next to one which was frequently occu-
pied by an itinerant fiddler, who was a musician of
considerable skill, and who often spent a part of
the night in performing pieces of a refined descrip-
tion. These performances were noticed by the
child only as disagreeable noises. After residing
in this house for six months she fell into bad
health:. and was removed by a benevolent lady to
her own home; where, on her recovery, she was
employed as a servant. Some years after she
came to reside with this lady, the wonder of the
WITH DOUBLE CONSCIOUSNESS. 167
family was strongly excited by hearing the most
beautiful music during the night, especially as
they spent many waking hours in vain endeavours
to discover the invisible minstrel. At length the
sound was traced to the sleeping room of the girl,
who was fast asleep, but uttering from her lips
sounds exactly resembling those of a small violin.
On farther observation it was found, that after
being about two hours in bed, she became restleBS
and began to mutter to herself; she then uttered
tones precisely like the tuning of a violin, and at
length, after some prelude, dashed off into elabo-
rate pieces of music, which she performed in a
clear and accurate manner, and with a sound not
to be distinguished from the most delicate modu-
lations of that instrument. During the perform-
ance she sometimes stopped, imitated the re-tun-
ing her instrument, and then began exactly where
she had stopped in the most correct manner.
These paroxysms occurred at irregular intervals,
varying from one to fourteen or even twenty
nights ; and they were generally followed by a
degree of fever. After a year or two her music
was not confined to the imitation of the violin, but
was often exchanged for that of a piano, which
she was accustomed to hear in the house where
she now lived ; and she then also began to sing,
imitating exactly the voices of several ladies of
the family. In another year from this time she
168 THE CONNE:X:ION OF MEMORY
began to talk a great deal in her sleep, in which
she seemed to fancy herself instructing a younger
companion. She often descanted with the utmost
fluency and correctness on a great variety of
t.opics, both political and religious ; the news of
the day, the historical parts of scripture, of public
characters, of members of the family, and of their
visitors. In these discussions she showed the
most wonderful discrimination; often combined
with sarcasm, and astonishing powers of memory.
Her language through the whole was fluent and
correct, and her illustrations often forcible and
even eloquent. She was fond of illustrating her
subjects by what she called a fable, and in these
her imagery was both appropriate and elegant.
" She was by no means limited in her range-
Buonaparte, Wellington, Blucher, and all the
kings of the earth, figured among the phantas-
magoria of her brain; and all were animadverted
upon with such freedom from restraint as often
made me think poor Nancy had been transported
into Madame Genlis's Palace of Truth." She
has been known to conjugate correctly Latin
verbs, which she had probably heard in the school-
room of the family, and she was once heard to
speak several sentences very correctly in French,
at the same time stating that she heard them
from a foreign gentleman. Being questioned on
this subject when awake, she remembered having
WITH DOUBLE CONSCIOUSNESS. 169
seen this gentleman, but could not repeat a word
of what he said. During her paroxysms it was
almost impossible to awake her, and when her
eyelids were raised and a candle brought near her
eye, the pupil seemed insensible to the light.
During the whole period of this remarkable
affectioll, which seems to have gone on for at
least ten or eleven years, she was, when awake, a
dull and awkward girl, very slow in receiving any
instruction, though much care was bestowed upon
her; and, in point of intellect, she was much
inferior to the other servants of the family. She
showed no kind of tum for music, and had not
any recollection of what passed during her sleep.
We are not surprised to find that this singular
and interesting girl afterwards deviated from the
path of virtue and became insane. The surprise
is, that those persons who exhibited kindness to
her in the early history of her life, should have
abandoned her when disposed to self-abandon-
ment. This is not the manner of a true christian
spirit, which exerts itself to counteract ignorance
and delusion, and deems those most pitiable and
most worthy of watchful care, who are farthest
removed from the enjoyment of truth and purity.
She had evidently laboured under disease of the
brain, especially that part which is influenced by
the higher intellectual faculties ; therefore the
greater should have been the care of her friends
I
170 THE CONNEXION OP HEHORY
to protect her from the persuasions of sensual
temptation, which always becomes mighty in pro-
portion to the development of the animal propen-
sities, unless controlled by motives derived from
superior knowledge and expectations.
Double consciousness is curiously tested in the
case of a person who cannot preserve attention
to his body, or to things around him, in conse-
quence of being overpowered by fatigue. He
sits, we will suppose, in some uneasy position,
not allowing him to resign himself to sleep, but
keeping him in a state of alternation between
imperfect sleeping and waking; so that he is con-
stantly correcting the aberrations of conscious-
ness that occur in the mind, when the will ceases
to act on the senses, by the returning conscious-
ness of his situation when slightly roused. Here
the individual recognizes the double mode of his
existence, and in the course of a few minutes
passes several times from the one state to the
other, dreaming one instant and reasoning the
next. However the fact may be explained, he is
conscious of transition and loses not the sense
of his identity, although the memory associated
with the exercise of the senses is distinctly seen
to differ from that which exists during their sus-
pense ; for, in reality, the perceptions of the dif-
ference between the objects of the memory in
the dreaming and in the wakeful conditions, con-
WITH DOUBLE CONSCIOUSNESS. 171
stitutes all by which the mind knows the difference
between sleep and vigilance.
When the exercise of memory is disordered, as,
for instance, by disease of the brain, it is often
difficult for the patient to awake to the conscious-
ness of realities ; and he is apt, as in cases of
insanity, to blend the memory of dreams with the
impressions of objects on his senses ; or even,
while apparently gazing at a real scene, to .be
attending only to an imaginary or remembered
one. This state was exemplified in the case of an
aged gentleman, whose remarkable affection was
lately the subject of public inquiry, and who,
while looking out of a window on a wide prospect
in England, described it to his housekeeper as a
scene in Barbadoes, where he had an estate, and
the dift'erent parts of that estate he pointed out
very minutely. This individual suffered from
disease which often rendered him incapable of
comparing ideas with present impressions, or
dreaming with wakefulness, and of course ren-
dered his memory almost as uncertain when awa\:e
as when in a dream.
I 2
CHAPTER XVIII.
FURTHER FACTS AND OBSERVATIONS IN PROOF OF THE
IMMATERIAL NATURE OF MEMORY.
WE daily experience the recurrence of past im-
pressions to be entirely independent on the will,
and we are often surprised at the distinctness
with which acenes that had long been lost in ob-
livion suddenly reappear without the possibility
of our detecting the cause of their revival. That
such resurrections of thought and impression re-
sult from some constant law of our existence,
there cannot be a ·doubt ; but that the recognized
influence of association is insufficient for the pur-
pose of explaining the fact, we possess abundant
proof, in those examples of renewed recollection
or its loss, which are so common in consequence
of disease. Sir Astley Cooper relates the case of
a sailor who was received into St. Thomas's
Hospital, in a state of stupor, from an injury in
the bead, which had continued some months.
After an operation be suddenly recovered, so far
as to speak, but no one in the hospital understood
his language. But a Welsh milk-woman, hap-
pening to come into the ward, answered him, for
IMMATERIAL NATURE OP MEMORY. 173
he spoke Welsh, which was his native language.
He had, however, been absent from Wales more
than thirty years, and previous to the accident
had entirely forgotten Welsh, although he now
spoke it fluently, and recollected not a single
word of any other tongue. On his perfect re-
covery, he again completely forgot his Welah and
recovered his English.
An Italian gentleman, mentioned by Dr. Rush,
in the beginning of an illness spoke English; in
the Iniddle of it, French; but, on the day of his
death, spoke only Italian. A Lutheran clergy-
man, of Philadelphia, informed Dr. Rush that
Germans and Swedes, of whom he had a large
number in his congregation, when near death,
always prayed in their native languages; though
some of them, he was confident, had not spoken
them for fifty or sixty years. An ignorant servant
girl, mentioned by Coleridge, during the delirium
of fever, repeated, with perfect correctness, pas-
sages from a number oftheological works in Latin,
Greek, and Rabbinical Hebrew. It was at length
discovered that she had been servant to a learned
clergyman, who was in the habit of walking back-
ward and forward along a passage by the kitchen,
and there reading aloud his favourite authors.
Dr. Abercrombie relates the case of a child,
four years of age, who underwent the operation of
trepanning while in a state ofprofound stupor from
174 IJUU.TERIAL NATURE OP MEMORY.
a fracture of the skull. After his recovery, he
retained no recollection either of the operation or
the accident ; yet, at the age of fifteen, during
the delirium of a fever, he gave his mother an
exact description of the operation, of the persons
present, their dress, and many other minute par-
ticulars. Dr. Pritchard mentions a .man who had
been employed with a beetle and wedges, splitting
wood. At night he put these implements in the
hollow of an old tree, and directed his sons to
accompany him the next morning in making a
fence. In the night, however, he became mad.
After several years his reason suddenly returned,
and the first question he asked was, whether his
sons had brought home the beetle and wedges.
They, being afraid to enter into an explanation,
said they could not find them; on which he arose,
went to the field where he had been to work so
many years before, and found in the place where he
had left them, the wedges and the iron rings ofthe
beetle, the wooden part having mouldered away.
It is a remarkable fact that, in many instances,
disorder of faculty, more particularly of memory,
having resulted from extensive organic disease of
the brain, yet individuals so atllicted have, never-
theless, had lucid intervals and a perfect restora-
tion of memory. This has been so marked in
.some cases, as to have induced the hope of re-
covery when death has been near at hand, and
IliUU.TERU.L NATURE OP MEMORY. 175
bas even rapidly ensued, from the increase of the
very disease which led to the mental incapacity.
Mr. Marshall relates, that a man died with a
pound of water in his brain, who, just before
death, became perfectly rational, although be had
been long in a state of idiocy. Dr. Holland refers
to similar cases, and I have witnessed one. Now,
unless we conclude that mind has been recreated
on such occasions, in accommodation to the or-
ganic defects, we must conclude that the mind
exists in its integrity, when once formed, distinct
as the light of heaven; though, like it, subject to
eclipse and cloud in its earthly manifestations.
Many such cases might he adduced, but the
foregoing facts suffice to prove that, though a.
healthy condition of the ~rain is essential to the
proper manifestation ofmind in this state ofbeing,
or in keeping with the use of the senses, yet that
a history of events lies hidden in the soul, which
only requires suitable excitement and appropriate
circumstances to cause it to be unfolded to the
eye of the mind, in due order, like a written roll.
And, moreover, these facts indicate that ourbodies
and our minds are mercifully constituted, in
mutual fitness and accommodation to each other
and the world we dwell in. They also show that,
the active employment of the will, and bodily
health with diversified bodily engagements, are
the best means of correcting that tendency to
176 UUU.TJ:JUA.L NATURE OP XEXOBY.
mental absence which precedes and accompanies
insanity. Moreover, these cases, as well as many
others equally well authenticated, "furnish proofs
and instances that relics of sensation may exist
for an indefinite time in a latent state, in the very
same order in which they were originally im-
p:ressed." Indeed, activity and intensity of all
mental power seems to depend on the removal of
bodily impediment. At least we see that certain
states of body allow the mind to act, without the
consciousness of difficulty or effort. Thus Dr.
Willis relates the case of a gentleman, who ex-
pected his fits of insanity with impatience, because
of the facility with which he then exercised his
memory and imagination. He said "every thing
appeared easy to me. No obstacles presented
themselves either in theory or practice. My
memory acquired, all of a sudden, a singular de-
gree of perfection. Long passages ofLatin authors
occurred to my mind. In general, I have great
difficulty in finding rythmical terminations, but
then I could write verses with as great facility as
prose." I knew a clergyman, of fine intellect,
who was remarkable for fits of hesitancy in preach-
ing ; but who, in his dreams, was accustomed to
express himself with intense and most fluent elo-
quence. Dr. Haycock, professor of medicine, in
Oxford, would give out a text, and deliver a good
sermon on it, in his sleep, but was incapable of
UUU.TERUL NATURE OP MEMORY. 177
such discourse when awake. A writer in Frazer'1
Magazine mentions a lady, who performed every
part of the Presbyterian service in her sleep.
Some of her sermons were published. They con-
sist principally of texts of scripture appropriately
strung together.
In the Edinburgh Jtmrnal of Science, a lady is
described as being subject to disease, during
which she repeated great quantities of poetry in
her sleep, and even capped verses for half an hour
at a time, never failing to quote lines beginning
with the final letter of the preceding, till her
memory, or rather her brain was exhausted.
We cannot rationally suppose that the peculiar
states of the brain, under which memory has thus
recurred, acted in any other way than either as a
stimulus or medium of action to something always
ready to act. These facts, therefore, contribute
to make it probable that all thoughts are in them-
selves imperishable ; "yea, in the very nature of
a living spirit, it may be more possible that heaven
and earth should pass away, than that a single
thought should be loosened or lost from that
living chain of causes, to all whose links, consci-
ous or unconscious, the free will,-our only abso-
lute itself,-is co-extensive and co-present."*
How awful is the conviction, that the book of
judgment is that of our life, in which every idle
• Coleridge.
I 3
178 UUU.T.ERIA.L NATURE OP MEMORY.
word is recorded; and that no power but His who
made the soul can obliterate our ideas and our
deeds from our remembrance, or blot out trans-
gressions and purify our spirits from the actual
indwelling of evil thoughts I
Every individual experience amply testifies that
the forgotten incidents of long past years, require
only the touch. of the kindling spirit to start up,
in all their pristine freshness, before us. How
often do we remember having recognised in our
dreams, those feelings and circumstances which
had been lost to our waking consciousness, in the
accumulated events which passing time had im-
pressed upon our minds I And although we can-
not say that we acknowledge, as belonging to our
own actual experience, all the visionary combina.--
tions which are thus presented to our notice in
dreams, we yet feel that every object in them is
familiar to our knowledge. Some persons, as we
have said, on the near approach of death have
spoken of the incidents of their lives as being
simultaneously presented before them as if in a
magic mirror, every line as if fixed upon a tablet
by the light, exactly as that revealing light fell on
it. The portrait of the soul is the perfect reflec-
tion of itself, and every man must see his own
character thus for ever visible to the eye of God,
and, probably, hereafter to angels and to men.
The present consciousness of life is but a condi-
IMM..U'ERIAL NATURE OF MEMORY. 179
tion of mind, and our enjoyments are but expres-
sions of the state of our wills ; therefore a change
of state makes no alteration in our characte..ra,
but serves only to exhibit them in new aspects.
Thus variety of circumstances tests the stability
of our moral principles; but these can be modified
only by the relation in which the soul stands with
regard to God, the source of moral law ; for death
is but a change of state, not of moral character.
In connexion with this subject it is interesting
to remember that immediately preceding death
the mind is commonly occupied about those
things with which it has been most intimate
during health. Thus Napoleon's last words were
"Head"-" Army." Those of a celebrated judge
were "Gentlemen ofthe jury, you are discharged."
Cardinal Beaufort cried, " What, no bribing
death I"
Reason and revelation agree then, in asserting,
that absolute forgetfulness, or obliteration, is im-
possible ; and that all the events of our history
are written in our living spirits; and, whether
seen or unseen, will there remain for ever, unless
removed by the act of a merciful Omnipotence t
It is true that a thousand incidents will spread a
veil between our present consciousness and the
record on the soul, but there the record rests wait-
ing the judgment of God. These sublime facts
deeply warn us as to the manner in which we
180 UUU.TERIA.L NATURE OF MEMORY.
suffer our faculties to be engaged, not only as
their exercise affects ourselves, but also in their
influence on the destiny of others.
Viewing the subject then, both physiologically
and metaphysically, we must infer that memory
has relation to another mode of existence; and
that though, as regards this sphere of being, re-
collection is greatly influenced by the will, yet
that much lies stored in latency, which can only
be called into exercise under coming circum-
stances, when the will shall be more largely en-
dowed, in a manner corresponding with its new
relations, and thus be enabled to connect new
facts with past impressions. The reasoning and
undisturbed spirit shall then understand the mean-
ing of all associated knowledge, and memory shall
preserve within us a consciousness of all we have
experienced through this life, and add it to that
which is to come. Memory indeed seems intended
to qualify us to treasure impressions in all worlds,
and to carry on the record and histOry of our feel-
ings from time to eternity. But if the experience
of earth is to be our all, then memory is without
a sufficient purpose. Is death indeed to end the
scene in perpetual oblivion? Is knowledge itself,
·though the result of a laborious life of attention
and of effort, to close for ever, like a beautiful
symphony, significant of richer harmony to come,
but yet terminating, we know not why, in abrupt
UUIATERIA.L NATURE OP KEKORY. 181
and eternal silence ? Is the stream to be lost,
not in ocean, but in nothing? No. The ever-
lasting future grows upon the past ; remembrance
is the basis of eternal knowledge. In fact, the
full purpose of any one of our intellectual endow-
ments does not appear to be fulfilled in the limited
and broken exercise which is afforded to it in the
present stage of being, since the utmost advantage
we derive from the employment of our faculties
now, is to become religious, that is, to be re-bound
to the worship and enjoyment of God. Can it be
that thia re-binding of the prodigal soul to the
Eternal Father is only for death, like the victim
bound to the altar, to be sacrificed and consumed
to ashes, from which no Phrenix-life arises?
Our best ratiocination, under the stimulus of
the highest and purest affections, is only an ability
to reason from thi.Jlgs past to things future, and
from experience to analogy; thence obtaining the
promise, the desire, the assurance of enlarged
capacity for understanding and blessedness; since
hope and doubt, in equal balance, are otherwise
the only ends of our utmost knowledge here.
But expectation and inquiry are purposeless, if
there be not a futurity in the mind of God for us,
which shall illuminate the chaos and satisfy the
trustful soul. Can it be that our Maker has given
us a life so rich in promise and excitation merely
to terminate in a question that must receive no
182 IJUU.TEBIAL NATURE OP MEXOBY.
&n~wer? Is it not most consonant with simple
reason as well as with revelation (which is God's
response to reason), to believethat ourholy desires
are properly directed forward to coming events
for their fruition; and that what we know, or
think we know, now, is intended only to excite
our longing for the larger knowledge reserved for
hereafter. God is not the God of the dead, but
of the living; for all who live for Him live in
Him-the life itself; and what we taste of life in
this world is but the covenant and agreement of
God with our spirits,-a covenant that capnot be
broken.
As we cannot believe that Omnipotence ever
created even an atom of matter and afterwards
annihilated it, so we cannot believe that mind and
spirit, created in his own likeness, capable of
communion with Himself, and so far partaking of
his own nature, should ever perish. Every im-
pression, every idea, every sensation has a place
in the individualityof every soul's experience, and
is appropriate and necessary to the growth and
edification of that soul, and cannot be destroyed
without the undoing of the work which Divine
Wisdom and power have accomplished; so that to
suppose a human being annihilated, or any part
of his experience for ever blotted out, is to imagine
providence without a purpose, and omniscient
wisdom without an object or an end worthy of
IMMATERIA.L NATURE OF XEMORY. 183
human creation. And are not the facts we have
related concerning attention and memory in per-
fect agreement with this conclusion of our reason?
Here then let us pause and ponder on the won-
ders of our mental and moral being, and the vast-
ness of our destiny as the offspring of the Ever-
lasting Father.
END OF FIRST PART.
THE
POWER OF THE SOUL OVER THE BODY.
PART II.
THE INFLUENCE OF MENTAL DETERMINATION AND
EMOTION OVER THE BODY.
THE POWER
OP
THE SOUL OVER THE BODY.
CHAPTER I.
THE POSITIVE ACTION OF THE MIND ON THE BODY, ASSERTED
AND EXEMPLIFIED IN THE EFFECTS OF EXCESSIVE AT-
TENTION.
PHYSIOLOGY teaches us, by a multitude of facts,
that every atom of the animal structure is sub-
jected to perpetual change; and that every motion,
every action of the body, is the consequence of
alteration in the vital condition of one or more of
its parts. Not a thought, not an idea, not an
affection or feeling of the mind can be excited
without positive change in the brain and in the
secretions; for every variation in the state of the
whole, or any portion, of the nervous system, is
of course accompanied by a correspondent change
in those organs and functions which it furnishes
with energy.
The body can be influenced only by four kinds
of force,--chemical, mechanical, vital, and mental.
188 ACTION OP HIND ON BODY
Health and enjoyment may be destroyed mechani-
cally, as by a blow. Anything which acts chemi-
cally may also injure the body, as fire. No
arguments can be required to show that the life
of the body is maintained in spite of a constant
tendency to death ; that is, the resident life is in-
cessantly counteracting the common chemical and
mechanical influences which are aronnd it. De-
composition and decay commence the moment
life leaves the body. So then life appears to be a
distinct power. But what is it? We know not.
It is neither tangible nor visible. It cannot be
weighed nor tested. Like the soul, it is discover-
able only by its effects on chemical and mecha-
nical agents. It is not the production of the
body, for without it the body itself could not have
commenced. It operates on one body, through
another, so as to produce a third. It is something
capable of being communicated, and is probably
independent on organization, at least some fluids
are imbued with it.. The purpose of vitality, as
regards man, is to bring inert matter into such
relations to the mind as that the mind may be
developed through it, by making physical organi-
zation subservient to consciousness and volition.
Life is the source of the body's growth, preserva-
tion, and reproduction. It exhibits itself in mo-
difying the action of external influences, and by
the evolution of new forms under the power of
ASSERTED AND BXEKPLIPIED. 189
impregnation. But the mind acta as clearly and
distinctly on the body as either chemical, mecha-
nical, or vital agency; therefore the mind must
possess a distinct existence, action, and force,
capable of being superadded to life as life is to
matter. .Mind, in fact, is the mightiest power
we know, and perhaps, properly speaking, the
only power. Chemical action is but relative, and.
the result of some power constantly ready to act
on matter according to circumstances. Sulphuric
acid and potash combine when brought into con-
tact under ordinary circumstances, because some-
thing produces a reciprocal change in their parti-
cles when within a certain distance of each other;
but this change is prevented altogether by causing
a galvanic current to influence these bodies, and
sulphuric acid may thus be passed through a solu-
tion of potash without their combining. We see
then that chemical action is dependent on electri-
cal action, and electrical action is dependent on
some superior power ; the same, it may be, as
that which causes gravitation, magnetism, polarity,
heat, light, and which pervades all elements; a
power which cannot be called material, and which
obeys only that will which evoked the universe
and still sustains it. ln short, all power may be
traced up directly to the mind that created and
manages all things.
This view of the actio11- of matter may easily be
19() ACTION OJ' lUND ON BODY
carried on to a com~n with that of mind;
for we at once perceive the reasonableness of con-
cluding that created mind, as well as matter, may
exist in a quiescent state until brought into rela-
tion with certain arrangements and conditions of
matter, or with other minds, according to affini-
ties and la'WS which operate only under the direct
in1luence of some superior all-pervading power.
Such a notion is consistent with the facts within
oor knowledge, and brings us at once to the ne-
cessity of acknowledging our total dependance,
for all the purposes of our being, on the will that
wisely and benevolently determines how and when
we shall feel, so that under one set of circum-
stances we shall be unconscious, and under ano-
ther be thoroughly kindled with emotion.
We have already observed the power of the will
in directing and enforcing the motions of the
muscles, but if we further reflect on the various
ways in which will operates, we shall not fail to
be struck with the vast extent of its influences ;
not only over the muscles, but also over the source
of bodily life itself, for its exercise modifies the
action both of the brain and the heart; taking
possession, so to speak, of the fountains of energy,
and regulating in some measure the supply of
blood and life to different parts of the body. This
is said not merely of the ordinary power of emo-
tion, but of voluntary employment of the body;
ASSERTED AND EXEMPLIFIED. 191
not of sudden impulse, but ofsteady purpose, such
88 the determined student or the artist evinces in
his patient labor with the book, the pen, the pen-
cil, or the graver.
We will confine our observation for a moment
to the more mechanical work of the engraver 88
an example of simple attention. He sits with his
eye and mind intent upon the fine lines of his
copper or steel plate ; and, 88 he looks more ear-
nestly he holds his breath; and 88 his attention
strengthens in its fixedness, his breathing becomes
audible and irregular. Now and then he is forced
to sigh to relieve his burdened and excited heart;
for the blood is retarded in the lungs and brain,
and if they be not soon relieved by some change
of object or of action he turns faint and dizzy.
Being wrought up to the same intensity day after
day he comes at length upon the extreme verge
of danger. The right ventricle of the heart be-
comes oppressed in consequence of imperfect ac-
tion of the lungs, while the general circulation is
quickened, and thus dilatation of the heart soon
follows, with disordered liver and accumulation of
black blood in the abdomen, bringing on a long
train of morbid sensations, with constant dread
of coming death. Moderate but frequent exercise
in the open air, with cheerful society, 88 it would
have prevented this miserable condition, will also
still relieve it ; but if this duty be neglected the
192 ACTION OP KIND ON BODY
evil rapidly increases. The patient's heart palpi-
tates excessively when either the mind or the
body is hurried; he is " tremblingly alive" in every
limb, and his nervous system completely fails him.
Pallid, weak, timid and tremulous, he is apt to
become too' sensitive to endure the anxieties of
domestic duty; and, if he be not sustained by
high religious or moral principles, he seeks a re-
spite from his wretchedness in the soothing, yet
aggravating narcotism of opium or tobacco, or in
the insidious excitement of some fermented liquor;
and thus gradually casts himselfout from all happy
and natural associations, and ends his days either
as a hypocondriac, a madman, or a drunkard.
This is not an exaggerated, but alas I a common
picture. The evil is aggravated in these cases by
the state of the mind, and that of the body being
equally irritable, they act and react on each other,
and the passions of the one, as well as the func-
tions of the other, become so disordered that per-
fect sleep cannot be obtained, and the persistent
exhaustion produces a chronic fever, for which
rest, the only remedy, is sought in vain, except
in the grave.
The failure of the nervous system, and the fear-
ful recourse to narcotics and stimulants for its re-
lief, are often witnessed where the tyranny of
Mammon exacts too long an attention to the
mechanical and anxious business of art. Its re-
ASSERTED AND EXEHPLIPIED. 198
suits are 'still visible in a frightful degree amongst
the operatives of our great manufactories, where
the eye must be quick and the hand ever ready
for one monotonous action, hour after hour and
day after day, with the mathematical precision
and rapidity of machinery, even through all that
period of life when nature most demands a cheer-
ful diversity of object and of action.
:But the commercial Moloch demands the per-
petual sacrifice of almost the whole bodily and
mental being of those who are providentially so
poor as to have nothing to sell but themselves.
The millions sterling which their labours have
won from many lands, belong to those who employ
them; how then shall they be protected? Cease-
less toil is their protection, say some, because it
preserves their morals ! This subject however is
too large for these pages. The great fact which we
would observe, is, the power of his will over the
body, for a man dies from voluntary fatigue, in the
determination to employ his muscles. Whether he
thus exhausts his vital energy in duty or for the
indulgence of his appetites, he still demonstrates
the dominance of his will, sixtce he undergoes the
extremity of toil to answer his own purpose, under
whatever circumstances he may be constrained to
exert himself. The will then is the master prin-
ciple, even in a slave, and therefore its moral state
must determine every man's moral destiny.
It
CHAPTER II.
INIUDICIOUS EDUCATION.
b the nervous system allowed the mind to attend,
reason would appear in its power as much at six
years of age as at sixty. The child does reason
then, and that correctly, to the extent of its know-
ledge ; and is as capable of enjoying intellectual
truth as in maturer years, provided the faculties
be cultivated in an appropriate manner. Perhaps
the most beautiful instance of such premature en-
joyment is that furnished by Washington Irving,
in his memoir of Margaret Davidson, a child, of
whom it is stated that, when only in her sixth
year, her language was elevated and her mind so
filled with poetic imagery and religious thought,
that she read with enthusiasm and elegance
Thomson's Seasons, The Pleasures of Hope,
Cowper's Task, and the writings of Milton, Byron,
and Scott. The sacred writings were her daily
study; and notwithstanding her poetic tempera-
ment, she had a high relish for history, and read
with as much interest an abstruse treatise, that
called forth the reflective powers, as she did poetry
or works of imagination. Her physical frame was
INJUDICIOUS EDUCATION. 195
delicately constituted to receive impressions, and
her mother was capable of observing and improv-
ing the opportunity afforded to instruct her. No-
thing was learned by rote, and every object of her
thought was discussed in conversation with a mind
sympathizing with her own. Such a course, how-
ever, while it demonstrates the power of the mind,
proves also that such premature employment of it
is inconsistent with the physiology of the body;
for while the spirit revelled in the ecstacies of
intellectual excitement, the vital functions of
the physical frame-work were fatally disturbed.
She read, she wrote, she danced, she sung, and
was the happiest of the happy; but, while the soul
thus triumphed, the body became more and more
delicate, and speedily failed altogether under the
successive transports.
The brain of a child, however forward, is totally
unfit for that intellectual exertion to which many
fond parents either force or excite it. Fatal dis-
ease is thus frequently induced; and where death
does not follow, idiocy, or at least such confusion
of faculty ensues, that the moral perception is ob-
scured, and the sensitive child becomes a man of
hardened vice, or of insane self-will. Many ex-
amples of this may be found, particularly among
the rigid observers of formal imitations of religion
and the refined ceremonies of high civilization.
There are numerous manuals to lead the infant
Jt2
196 INJUDICIOUS EDUCATION.
mind from nature up to nature's God, as if it were
in the nature of childhood to need manuals and
catechisms of Botany, Geometry, and Astronomy
to teach them the goodness of the Creator and the
Saviour. Fathers and mothers rather need ma-
nuals to teach them how to treat their children,
seeing that nearly half of those brought forth die
in infancy, and the majority of the survivors are
morbid both in mind and body. It is the parental
character, in wisdom and love watching to bring
the child into sympathy with true knowledge and
affection, that represents and imitates the Divine
Mind, as commended to our study by his acts.
Even the persuasives of religious discipline, instead
of falling like the gentle dew from heaven, are too
frequently made hard and dry and harsh, as if
the Gospel were the invention of a mathematical
tyrant, to fashion souls by geometric rules, and
not the expression of the mind of love, inspiring
by example. The contrast, in personal appear-
ance and manner, between a child trained under
the winning management of a wise, firm, com-
manding love, and another subjected to the des-
potic control of fear is very striking.: In the
former, we observe a spritely eye and open coun-
tenance, with a genial vivacity and trustfulness
in the general expression of the body ; a mixture
of confiding sociality with intelligence, an alacrity
of movement, and a healthiness of soul, evinced in
INJUDICIOUS EDUCATION. 197
generous activity and smiles. Even if the body
be enfeebled, still a certain bright halo surrounds,
as it were, the mental constitution. But physical,
as well as intellectual vigour and enjoyment, are
usually the happy result of that freedom of heart
and generosity of spirit which skilful affection
endeavours to encourage. Then, in youth and
manhood, a noble intelligence confirming the pro-
priety of such early training; but the child who
finds a tyrant instead of a fostering parent, if
naturally delicate, acquires a timid bearing, a
languid gait, a sallow cheek, a pouting lip, a
stupid torpidity, or a sullen defiance; for nature's
defence from tyranny is either bard stupidity or
cunning daring.
In this country the feeble slave too often skulks
through life a cowering and cowardly hypocrite;
defending himself from the craft and violence of
others selfishness by every meanness, and seeking
his enjoyment by the sly, as if he feared to be
found susceptible of pleasure. His character is
engraven on his face. The child of robust frame
will however learn to face the tyrant, and, acquir-
ing his worse features, at length be fit only to
associate with ruffians, or to drive slaves.
Children are not formed for monotony and
fixedness : their nervous systems will not bear it
with impunity, and even their very bones are in-
tolerant of the erect position for any length of
198 INJ'UDICIOUS EDUCATION.
time. They are made to be restless and active,
and are not healthy if forced to be otherwise.
The system of excessive restraint is therefore un-
christian, because it is unnatural ; for Christianity
is not opposed to nature ; it is not a violence, but
a superior influence in correspondence with an in-
ferior. It is a spirit that subdues by possessing
the will, and which educates by inducing and
fostering the sweet sympathies of religious love,-
like the gentle dew, and the light and warmth of
heaven, evolving the living seed. The government
of fear and force is the plan of every imaginable
hell, where each evil begets a greater, and terror
and hatred torment each other. Ifthen we would
know how to manage a little child, let us imagine
how Jesus would have treated it. Would he not
have engaged its happiest feelings, and affections,
won its heart, and blessed it? While sitting on
his knee, would not the child have gazed into that
"human face divine," and learned the gentleness
and power of its Heavenly Father ? Let it not
be forgotten that the Saviour said, " whoso shall
receive one such little child in my name, receiveth
me : but whoso shall offend one ofthese little ones
that believeth in me, it were better that a mill-
stone were hanged about his neck and he drowned
in the depth ofthe sea." If the words from which
we obtain the nation do not deceive us, superior
and holy beings are concerned about our offspring,
IN.JUDICIOUS EDUCATION, 199
and each child has its guardian angel, who beholds
the face of God. How would that angel, if con-
versing with it, in visible beauty, talk to the child
.and kindle its affections ? Surely by showing the
might of graciousness with sublime simplicity;
like that of the disciple whom Jesus loved, when
he said, "little children, love one another." That
angel would be more successful in his teaching
only, because he would be more accommodating
to the body, more earnest, more gentle, more
attractive, and more sympathizing. He would
have no greater truths to inculcate than we have,
but knowing more clearly than we do the delicacy
of our mysterious constitution and the worth of
a soul, with its intellect and affections formed for
eternity, he would act more gently and cautiously
with its bodily temperament. Let us imitate the
loving angel-the loving Saviour-the loving God
-in kindness towards little children, and show
them nothing but love; since they will respond to
that spirit, but be repulsed into sin and agony by
every other.
Piety itself is not unfrequently rendered terri-
ble by a perverted application of memory, to
descriptions in which Omnipotence is associated
with the final judgment and the terrors of guilt.
Many a little child, whose susceptible heart is as
ready to yield to the gentlest breath of affection
as the aspen-leaf to the zephyr, and whose spirit
2()() INJUDICIOUS EDUCATION.
sparkles with love as readily as a dew-drop with
the light, acquires the habit of terror, and scarcely
dares to look up because he is taught as soon as
he can speak to repeat-
"There's not a sin that we commit,
Nor wicked word we say,
But in the dreadful book 'tis writ,
Against the judgment day."
And the thoughtless and fond parent too fre-
quently makes that appear to be wickedness and
sin which, however proper to childhood, is incon-
venient to those who should tenderly train it.
Surely that is a dangerous expedient for the cor-
rection of a child, conscious of having offended the
only being he has learned to love, and while per-
haps in agony of heart begging pardon from a
mother, to be told to remember
" There is a dreadful hell
And everlasting pains,
Where sinners must for ever dwell
In darkness, fire, and chains--
" And can a wretch as 1
Escspe this cursed end, &c. ?"
Difline Songa for Children.
There is reason to believe that insane despondency
and a disposition to suicide, may often be traced
to abuse of religious discipline, if religious it may
be called, especially that form of it just alluded
INIUDICIOUS EDUCATION. 201
to. Thus the impression of despair is apt to be
bumt into the very brain, to tt grow with its
growth, and strengthen with its strength ;" so
that in after-life the divine remedy scarcely effaces
the callous scar, or else the youth thus ill-treated
in his childhood, endeavours to escape from the
haunting terror by persuading himself that reli-
gion is invented only to keep wretches in order.
Hence the glowing and glorious words of the
living oracle-" There is joy amongst the angels
in the presence of God over one sinner that re-
penteth"-is regarded only as an exquisite hyper-
bole. It falls dead upon the ear, as if it could
not be, as it is, quickening truth from the lips of
Him who is the Life.
There is another abuse here demanding remark.
No treatment can be more injudicious and injuri-
ous than that often resorted to, even in schools
of high character, namely, the exertion of me-
mory, not for the sake of acquiring and retaining
a knowledge of facts, which must always be useful,
but merely to punish some dereliction. What
good can arise from thus fatiguing the brain, by
excessively straining that faculty, in the happy
and spontaneous associations of which all the
value of every acquirement consists? No plan is
more likely to disable the mind and impair the
body, as the servant of mind; for by this practice
the idea of fixing the attention on words becomes
K3
202 INJUDICIOUS EDUCATION.
peculiarly irksome. The very countenance of a
boy thus distressed is apt to assume an expressiop
of vacancy or irritability, and every function of
his life to indicate the mischief arising from a de-
bilitated brain under disorderly associations.
As the emulative success of classical education
is generally dependent on an excessive determi-
nation of mind, for the purpose of rapidly load-
ing the memory, it is of course attended for the
most part with a correspondent risk to the nervous
system of aspirants after academic honours. Men-
tally speaking, those who bear the palm in severe
universities, rarely survive the effort necessary to
secure the distinction. Like phosphorescent in-
sects, their brilliance lasts but a little while, and
is at its height when on the point of being extin-
guished for ever. The laurel crown is co~mouly
for the dead; if not corporeally, yet spiritually;
and those who attain the highest honours of their
Almtl! Matres are generally diseased men. Having
reached the object of their aim, by concentrating
their energies in one object, au intellectual palsy
too often succeeds, and their bodies partake of the
trembling feebleness. If their ambition survive,
and instead of slumbering away a dreaming ex-
istence in some retired nook, they occupy promi-
nent stations in public life, disease of the brain,
heart or lungs soon quenches their glory, and they
fade away. The impression of undue determina-
INJUDICIOUS EDUCATION. 203
tion remains upon the brain, which continues
subservient to the ambitious will until its struc-
ture and its functions fail together. The early
effort opened a fountain of energy abruptly. It
cannot be perennial; the waste is more rapid than
the supply; and, like water bursting from its
channel, it must run to waste, until violence ends
in exhaustion. It happens, too, that those san-
guine spirits, who acquire knowledge with facility
and scatter it in wit, are rather the despisers of
solid diligence; and therefore the great readers
are mostly heavy-brained men, who make up in
dogged determination and perseverance for lack
of readiness in acquiring. With patience, equal
to their ambition, they plod on for the prize. If
they win it, their deadly passion is confirmed ; if
they lose it, again they roll the stone against the
hill and it returns to crush them. Yet who would
depreciate mental effort? The memory must be
trained, the soul must be determined to conquer
its impediments, the moral being will starve with-
out a store of facts, the faculty of recollecting
and arranging must be powerfully and regularly
employed, or the mind becomes a desultory va-
grant. Without mental exertion in acquiring
habits of thought, youth would pass into manhood
with the medley intellect and ungovernable nerv-
ous system of the savage, with all the correspond-
ing disorderly habits of bodily action. Education
204 INIUDICIOUS EDUCATION.
distinguishes the energetic citizen from the fitful
barbarian; the man who governs his body from
the man who obeys it; the man of principles from
the man of impulses. But we ought not to for-
get that true healthy education consists in the
motives which naturally and quietly educe or lead
out the mind to think for itself, in sympathy with
those who have thought, not in the routine of
school-tasks and verbal drudgery.
Intellectually speaking, mau is not gregarious,
but every mind has a track of its own as well as
a body of its own; therefore, those who have felt
the value of mental culture, and have taken their
course untrammelled by task-work, have generally
shown their intellectual vigour by a greater capa-
city of endurance as well as by freedom, boldness,
and healthiness of thought. We may as well
look for easy walking in a Chinese lady, whose
feet have grown in iron shoes, and those very
small ones, as for easy thinking in a mind that
has been cast in a mould constructed to suit the
minimi of the million. The reflective and percep-
tive faculties are too generally sacrificed at school
for the sake of mere verbal memory; and hence
those who were really most highly endowed, ap-
peared, while there, most deficient scholars; such
as Liebig, Newton, and Walter Scott.
In conclusion of this chapter we may observe,
that the ~odern system of education appears to
INJUDICIOUS EDUCATION. 205
be altogether unchristian ; undoubtedly it contri-
butes much to swell the fearful list of diseases,
for it is founded on an unhealthy emulation, which
ruins many both in body and in soul, while it
qualifies none the better either for business know-
ledge, usefulness, or enjoyment ; but rather, to-
gether with the influence of the money valuation
of intellect, causes the most heroic spirits of our
age to hang upon vulgar opinion and the state of
the market.
CHAPTER III.
PECULIAR EFFECTS OF INORDINATE MENTAL
DETERMINATION.
TaE strongest brain will fail under the continu-
ance of intense thought. All persons, who have
been accustomed to close study, will remember
the utter and indescribable confusion that comes
over the mind when the will has wearied the
brain. A curious example has already been given
in the case of Spalding, who tells us that his
attention having been long kept on the stretch,
and also greatly distracted, he was called upon to
write a receipt, but he had no sooner written two
words than he could proceed no further. For
half an hour he could neither think consecutively
uor speak except in words which he did not in-
tend. Afterwards he recovered, and found that
instead of writing on the receipt " fifty dollars,
being half a year's rate, &c.," he had written
" fifty dollars, through the salvation of Bra-,"
the last word being left unfinished, and without
his having the least recollection of what he in-
tended it to be. This state presents a specimen
of partial delirium or waking dream : the will still
acting, but incapable of controlling the thoughts
PECULIAR El"l"ECTS, .ETC. 207
or connecting memory with present impression.
This must depend on the state of nerve produced
by the mental intensity, which, when continued
to extreme exhaustion, we know to be capable of
so altering the sensation as that objects presented
to the eye assume appearances which do not be-
long to them. Thus Sir Joshua Reynolds, after
being occupied for many·hours in painting, saw
trees in lamp posts, and moving shrubs in men
and women. This kind of inability to command
attention is most readily induced by monotonous
study. Persons of lymphatic temperament are
peculiarly liable to this kind of exhaustion, and
should therefore employ their minds with great
caution, or otherwise their determination will
prove the destruction of their reason; for, in fact,
a persistance of this want of control over atten-
tion is insanity, as we see in those instances in
which persons confound things together of an in-
congruous nature; as when the anatomist, having
fatigued his nervous system by a long continued
dissection, talked of a town to which he referred
as situated in the deltoid muscle. Disorder from
excessive attention is sometimes manifested in a
still odder manner, as in the case of the celebrated
Dr. Watts, who, after great exertion of mind,
thought his head too large to allow him to pass
out at the study door. A gentleman, after deliver-
ing a lecture at the College of Surgeons, said that
208 PECULIAR J:PPECTS OP UNDUE
his head felt as if it filled the room. Sometimes
fatigue produces permanent insanity. Thus, in
the German Psychological Magazine, a case is
related of a soldier who, after great fatigue, hap-
pened to read the book of Daniel, and from that
moment believed that he could perform miracles,
such as plant an apple-tree which, by his power,
should bear cherries. Determinate effort of mind
sometimes induces a pecnliar insanity, when the
nervous system becomes habituated to extreme
exhaustion. A certain form of this malady occurs
in paroxysms of ecstatic abstraction suddenly seiz-
ing the person and fixing him like a living statue;
with the body slightly bent, every limb ngid with
rapture, the arms elevated, the fore-finger pointed
to some imagined object, the eyelids staring wide,
the eyes turned up with an intense and motion-
less expression, and the lips a little separated; in
short, the whole attitude and countenance ex-
pressive of the most awful admiration. This is
the description of a real case arising from intense
concentration of thought, continued without re-
gard to bodily exercise or proper change in the
mental object.
It is remarkable that similar states may be
produced by the will of another, even in those
who have not shown any tendency to it, when
they surrender their wills to the impressions pro-
duced by another's action. Baron Dupotet, who
MENTAL DETERMINATION. 209
lately made some noise in London by his feats of
mesmerism, had the power, by his manreuvres, of
speedily throwing certain individuals either into
sleep, or convulsions, or a rigid condition, such as
that just described. This was effected without
any collusion, and in many cRSes without the
slightest idea on the patient's part of what was
likely to follow. Such facts are never disputed
by physiologists now, and perhaps they may be
generally accounted for by the direct action of the
mind on the body, or at least by mental excite-
ment in connexion with some disorder of the
nervous system; since they are quite in keeping
with what we observe to arise independently of
those tricks of hand called animal magnetism. In
these cases, as far as I have witnessed them, there
appears to be a propagation of impression from
. the senses, especially sight, to the centre of the
individual's nervous system, thereby altering the
direction of nervous energy. Intense and eager
attention, with undefined dread, and with the eye
fixed on the hand or eye of a person apparently
set upon bewitching one, is a process which few
could submit to for any length of time without
strange sensations being produced. Hence it has
happened that a firm man, who knew nothing
about the matter, has sat down with laughter, but
soon his attention has been fixed upon the wizard's
hand, and ere long he bas looked unutterably
210 PECULIAR EFFECTS OP UNDUE
stupid, like a drunkard, then turned pale, then
.become immoveable, except just as the magician
before him was pleased to point-now with his
nose to the ground-now upwards-now aslant-
now with body twisted this way-now that-now
standing-now sitting-and now walking, or rather
stalking, just at the pantomimic indications of the
enchanter; and all this, as it appeared, simply
from the effect of an unnatural and overpowering
attention on a brain unprepared by a habit of
healthy action.
In ecstasy or trance, the patient's mind is ab-
sorbed on some object of imagination ; as the
term ecstasy implies, persons so impressed are out
of the body, engrossed in spiritual contemplations.
The muscles are sometimes relaxed, at other times
rigid; the will, however, often continues to exert
an influence over certain parts of the body, such
as the organs of voice; for though they are in-
capable of moving a limb, or being excited by any
external stimulus, they nevertheless occasionally
give expression to their feelings by singing or
speaking. This kind of entrancing delirium is
apt to occur in persons afllicted by nervous dis-
order, especially where the will is wayward; and
may frequently be produced in them by powerful
excitement of the imagination, or by mesmeric
manipulations. It is stated by individuals well
qualified to detect imposition, that in these cases
MENTAL DETERMINATION. 211
there exists a kind of transference and concentra-
tion of intelligence in certain parts of the nervous
system, so that a sort of oracular faculty is de-
veloped, and the subjects of this affection become
capable of describing things beyond the range of
their senses and offoretelling events. Dr. Copland
states that many of the Italian improvvisatori
possess their peculiar faculty only in this state of
ecstacy, or, as it may be called, abnormal consci-
ousness, from resolute attention to ideas.
Probably the mind and the nervous system are
intensely excited for some time previous to the
development of ecstacy. There is a morbid
acuteness of feeling and thought, an inordinate
employment of the attention, kept up by preced-
ing sensations, or some absorbing train of ideas,
which exhaust the sensorium, and bring it into
that state in which it often appears to be in those
persons who accustom themselves to abstract
studies and reverie. This condition is more apt
to occur when strong passions are associated with
a weak body. A frequent and exhausting repeti-
tion of pleasureable feelings begets a marked pre-
disposition to this disordered action of the brain.
If all that is stated concerning ecstacy be true,
we are forced to the conclusion that, after the ex-
haustion of brain is carried to a certain extent,
the mind begins voluntarily to exert itself in a
new and enlarged manner, so as to exhibit pheno-
212 PECULIAR EPPECTS OP UNDUE
mena which have been named lucidity, exaltation
of facnlty, clairvoyance, &c. The transition state
may present appearances like those of common
delirium, dreaming, somnabulism, and madness.
It ia often accompanied by convulsions. A few
cases of an extraordinary kind may best illustrate
this curious subject. It has been testified that
cataleptic patients often manifest a clairvoyant
faculty. A patient of Petetin, President of the
Medical Society of Lyons, in this state, ia said to
have distinguished in succession several cards laid
on her stomach under the bed-clothes; she told
the hour of a watch held in the closed hand of an
inquirer, and recognized a medal grasped in the
hand of another; she read a letter placed under
the waistcoat of her physician and mentioned the
number of gold and silver coins contained in each
end of a purse which had been slipped there by a
sceptic. She told each of the persons present
what he possessed about him most remarkable,
and perceived through a screen what one person
was doing.
According to the testimony of the committee of
the medical section of the French Royal Academy,
a man named Paul, having been mesmerized,
besides many other equally wonderful things, read
a book opened at random while his eyes were
forcibly closed by M. Jules Cloquet. He had been
mesmerized by M. Foissac. The committee also
MENTAL DETERMINATION. 213
bear evidence that other individu$ls in the same
state could read distinctly and play at cards with
the greatest dexterity and correctness. Their re-
port also declares, "that in two somnambulists
they found the faculty of foreseeing. One of them
announced repeatedly several months previously,
the day, the hour and the minute of the access
and return of epileptic fits. The other announced
the period of his cure. These previsions were
realized with remarkable exactness."
Those who are curious in these marvels may
find abundance of them in many modern works.
It certainly would be passing strange should such
relations all prove false, since the acutest observers
of all ages have declared them to be true. At
least Hippocrates, Aretreus, Aristotle, &c., describe
with great minuteness, and in strict accordance
with the statements of recent and competent be-
lievers, ·a state of the body in which the powers
of the soul are exalted. Thus Hippocrates says,
tt there is a class of diseases in which men dis-
course with eloquence and wisdom, and predict
secret and future events ; and this they do though
they are ignorant rustics and idiots." Aretreus
states that the mind under certain circumstances
of disease becomes clear and prophetic for some
patients u predict their own end and certain events
of interest to those around, who think them talk-
ing dellrio~sly, but nevertheless are amazed to find
their predictions true."
214 PECULIAR EFFECTS, .ETC.
Alsaharavius says, he has known many epileptics
who had a knowledge of things which he was sure
they had never learned. The occasional prevision
of the dying has been credited by almost every
nation, and the faculty of second sight has been
almost as universally acknowledged.
In most of the cases related in this chapter, it
is probable that the attention was kept so long
intensely fixed on one set of objects, that at length
the brain took on a new action, as if from physio-
logical necessity, or because the law of its organi-
zation demanded a change, violent in proportion
to its abuse. We know that there is, while awake,
a tendency to repeat sensations and ideas in an
accustomed manner, and that there is also during
the suspension of outward attention, a tendency
to a state contrary to that previously existing;
thus a man who has been almost maddened by
vain desire, say for food, will, during his sleep,
enjoy a fancied feast. From this and many similar
facts we learn that the mind possesses the power
of securing its own satisfaction when withdrawn
from the demands of the body; that one train of
ideas can be displaced only by substituting ano-
ther; that obedience to the laws of our bodily and
mental economy is imperative ; and hence that
there is a necessity for exercising the will in a
judicjous, moral and religious manner, if.we would
enjoy a healthy habit of thinking and acting.
CHAPTER IV.
THE EFFECTS OF UNDUE ATTENTION TO ONE'S OWN BODY.
IT has been already observed, that the education
of the senses is a mental act, in which attention
and comparison are busily at work, to determine
the relation of objects to each other and to the
individual regarding them. Where the organs
are perfect, the power of percep~on or the acute-
ness of sensation is in proportion to the power of
the mind in directing attention, or in proportion
to the degree in which the particular sense is
used, hence we find microscopic observers, for in-
stance, acquire such a command over their sight,
in the use of their instruments, as to detect the
minutest variations in objects and such slight
shades of difference as would be altogether over-
looked by persons unaccustomed to such investi-
gations. This education of sense, under the
tuition of the will, is displayed in the most re-
markable manner among those savage tribes,
whose very existence depends upon the keenness
oftheirsenses, in discovering indications of danger
or of safety among the wilds in which they dwell,
and where civilized men would be wholly at•a loss
....
216 UNDUE ATTENTION TO THE BODY.
either to track prey or to avoid an enemy. The
dominion of the mind over certain organs of the
body is beautifully shown in such instances; but
there are curious facts in connexion with this
subject well worthy of observation. It is not the
senses merely that may be rendered more acute
by effort of mind. Attention to any part of the
body is capable of exalting the sensibility of that
part or of causing the consciousness concerning
its state to be affected in a new manner. Thus a
man may attend to his stomach till he feels the
process of digestion ; to his heart, till conscious of
its contractions ; to his brain, till he turns dizzy
with a sense of action within it; to any of his
limbs, till they tingle; to himself, till tremblingly
alive all over; and to his ideas till he confounds
them with realities.
We have remarked that persons of high intel-
lectual endowment are capable of abstracting the
attention from external objects, and of so apply-
ing it to the objects of thought as to become
almost insensible to those of sense. On this
power of abstraction depends the degree and suc-
cess of studious habit. By it reason expands the
scope of her vision, aud acquires increased sagacity
in every fresh exercise of her faculties. Fixing
the attention on abstract truths is like lifting the
veil between the world of sense and the world of
spirit: By endeavouring to look, we see further
UNDUE ATTENTION TO THE BODY. 217
along the vista of life, and by abstraction we place
ourselves in a position to be actuated by new
influences. By striving and urging after truth,
we get more and more familiar with her footsteps.
When we would learn more of some mystery
important to us, we turn away from all other
subjects, and cast our attention in upon the con-
sciousness of our own spirits, as if expecting there
to discover a reply to our inquiry; and by thus
standing, as it were, in the attitude of expecta-
tion, to observe thoughts as they pass before us,
we often discover great secrets, and find our moral
nature enlightened and enlarged by new convic.
tions and new desires; for by this mental retire-
ment we become most susceptible of spiritual im-
pressions. Bnt, by some mysterious re-action,
this strong awakening of the mind renders it
more conscious of the body, when the abstraction
is over, and hence the most intellectual are
generally also the most sensitive of mortals.
Many diseases are produced, increased, and
perpetuated by the attention being directed to the
disordered part; but employment, which diverts
the attention from disease, often cures it. Every
one who has had a tooth drawn, knows the charm
of expecting the final agony ;-a sight of the
operator or the instruments has put the pain·.to
flight. The celebrated metaphysician, Kant, was
able to forget the pain of gout by a voiuntary
L
218 UNDUE ATTENTION TO THE BODY,
effort of thought, but it always caused a danger-
ous rush of blood to the head.
We may compa;re sensibility to a fluid, as
Cabanis did, and suppose it to exist in a deter-
minate quantity, capable of being diverted from
one channel into another, according to t4e state
of the mind and nervous system ; thus causing an
accumulation of exalted sensibility in one part
of the body and a proportionate diminution in
other parts. This state existed in the cases cited
in a former chapter. In ecstacies the brain and
sympathetic nerves appear to become highly ener-
getic, while the vital feeling seems to have forsaken
other parts of the syst~. Something akin to
this must have taken place in those violent
fanatics, the Convulsionists of St. Medard, who
submitted with impunity and pleasure to severe
wounds from swords and hatchets, which, in the
ordinary state of sensibility, would have destroyed
life. But these ecstatic and ascetic beings called
such blows their consolations, and entreated to be
mangled and beaten by the strongest men and
the largest weapons.
The mesmeric magic also, by giving a strong
and new determination to the mind, seems to
endow it with new power of action, by calling into
exercise a concentrated or intense sensibility, and
a mode of nervous energy to which the organs
have not been acculltomed, and which therefore
UNDUE ATTENTION TO THE BODY. 219
induces an apparently supernatural train of phe-
nomena; for function and orgasm seem to be due
to the unknown agent which confers sensibility
and action upon structure.
The attention being unduly fixed upon the body
itself, instead of being employed in controlling
the limbs and senses in active exercise about the
proper business of life, causes, or at least often ag-
gravates, the morbid consciousness which torments
the hypochondriac. The sensation of disease of
course may precede this, and is perhaps necessary
to the first excitement of attention to the vital
functions in an unnaturally acute manner, but
perverted consciousness commences the instant
we fail to obey the laws of our constitution, which
require us to attend to other objects rather than
to ourselves. If we use not our faculties on their
proper objects, improper thoughts will present
themselves, and the moral equilibrium will thus
be destroyed by inward and selfish attention, and
the intellectual eye-sight become confirmed in its
obliquity; for we are intended to be healthy and
happy only as long as our minds are occupied in
acquiring intelligence from things around us, or
by reciprocal interest with other beings. It would
indeed appear that our Creator designed us to be
employed rather on objects around us, and in
association with the activities of other minds, than
on the operations of our own ; for we find that
L2
220 CSDCE AftZniO!'f '1'0 'l'1l1t BODY.
oar efl'orbl to concentrate attention on the pro-
eea of oar own thoughts speedily begets a most
painCu1 confusion ; nor can we even IAUDDlon
our memory for the restoration o£ a forgotten idea
and teareh with any diligence Cor ita recovery,
without such Catigne as either compels us soon to
relinquish the punmit, or else, iC we obstinately
persist, induces a nen-oua headache and imbe-
cility, nearly approaching to aberration o£ in-
tellect. The mastery over our own minds, except
in obedience to social Jaws, is denied to us.
Healthy thinking and mental 811110Ciation are one.
If we would think salely we must think natorally;
that is, in relation to others, and our thonghts
must lead to action. There must be a degree oC
spontaneous readiness and snbmission of mind to
the common course of association and feeling.
Not that we possess no power of selecting from
the ideas which present themselves to our imagi-
nation. Far otherwise-the gift and extent o£
reason consists in this selection ; but the snccess
with which we employ our faculties depends not
on desire but on training, that is, on the habit of
our intellect in sympathy with other minds, and
according to our familiarity with facts, appear-
ances and employments. In short, observation is
the basis of our ability, and outward exertion is
its security; but self-consciousness, or attentive
analysis of the operations and sensations of our
UNDUE ATTENTION TO THE BODY. 221
own minds, endangers the well-being of our rea-
son, and is the frequent cause of insanity. Hence,
then, we learn the paramount importance of our
sympathies being suitably excited, for this is
proper mental cultivation.
To this end it is essential that the growing mind
should be educated in truth under the direction
of those who themselves feel and obey it. The
will of one is influenced by the will of others, and
the union of a body of persons, under the same
proper convictions, is, especially to youthful rea-
son and affection, the strongest safeguard and
most persuasive government. Hence the value
of some central truth attracting together indivi-
duals, who will test all their opinions by their one
uniting faith. Christianity is founded on this
principle; for it is a central light which imparts
due colour to all objects, and it is evermore suc-
cessful in proportion as its one grand truth is in-
sisted on and believed.
The sanity of society, as well as of individual
minds, is secured only by faith in some common
object of regard, and the commencement both of
personal and social hypocrisy is the abstraction of
regard from the common interest, for the purpose
of attending to self. Here schism and confusion
-begin, but here they do not end; for party spirit, or
endemic hypocrisy, is but extended selfishness, and
personal moral derangement made more general
222 UNDUE ATTENTION TO THE BODY,
and infectious. We !Jee then that obedience alone
is safety ; but the idea of obedience implies a
belief in the revelation of a supreme will; a power
regarding which we cannot dispnte; for as long
as we question the existence of supreme power
and appointment, we deny the right to govern,
even in the Almighty. It follows, then, that in
order to the formation of true moral impressions,
correct thinking, and hence correct conduct, there
must be a true revelation of God's will. The
legitimate end of this argument then appears to
be, that if God has revealed himself, as we believe
He has in nature, naturally, in the Bible, ex-
plicitly, then our business with regard to both
revelations is to learn and to obey, since nothing
more is needed for our happiness. In fact our
faculties are fit for nothing else, and if we insist
upon employing them in any other manner we
must meet the penalty,-madness and misery.
-----"All declare
For what the Eternal Maker has ordained
The powers of man : we feel within ourselves
His energy divine : he tells the heart
He meant, he made us to behold and love
What he beholds and loves, the general orb
Of life and being-to be great like him,
Beneficent and active."-.Akemide.
But to return to the effect of attention on the
body. There is an artificial mode of producing
UNDUE ATTENTION TO THE BODY. 228
sleep, by fatiguing the muscles of the eye, which
is effected by a strained and intent gaze at any
object, real or ideal, viewed under an acute angle.
Perhaps by this effort the irritability of those
muscles oecomes exhausted and also that of the
optic nerve-the result is giddiness, mistiness of
sight and soon after sleep. Congestion is induced
in the eyes, and carried thence to the optic and
other nerves of the eyes, and owing to their proxi-
mity to the origin of the nerves of respiration and
circulation, sympathetically affects these also, and
thus enfeebles the action of the heart and lungs.
If the ~nd resign itself to sleep, an orderly slow
breathing takes place, and the whole body soon
becomes composed ; but if mental effort continue
to resist the disposition to drowsiness, another
order of phenomena occurs, similar to those fre-
quently arising from mesmerism. The heart's
more feeble action first produces coldness of the
extremities and general pallor of the surface; the
blood is consequently accumulated in the region
of the heart. .The brain, and probably the spinal
and sympathetic system of nerves, become con-
gested in consequence, and then many strange
and curious phenomena, resulting from irregu-
larity in the circulation of the blood and nervous
energy, spedily follow. The inability to raise the
upper eyelid under these circumstances arises from
a kind of paralysis of ita muscles; a paralysis
224 UNDUE ATTE~TION TO THE BODY.
which is apt at the same time to affect other parts.
Of course morbid consciousness, in various organs
of the body, is manifested according to the dif-
ferent modifications of mental and bodily con-
stitution in the various persons subjected to such
experiments.
A case is related by Dr. George Cheyne, which
affords a very curious illustration of the voluntary
influence of the mind over the body in modifying
vital action and sensibility. A Colonel Townsend,
residing at Bath, sent for Drs. Baynard and Cheyne
and a Mr. Skrine, to give them some account of
an odd sensation which he had for some time felt,
which was, that he could expire when he pleased,
and, by an effort, come to life again. He insisted
so much on their seeing the trial made that they
were forced at last to comply. They all three felt
his pulse which was distinct, and had the usual
beat. He then composed himself on his back for
some time. By the nicest scrutiny they were
soon unable to discover the least sign of life, and
at last were satisfied that he was actually dead;
and were just about to leave him, with the idea
that the experiment had been carried too far, when
they observed a slight motion in the body, and
gradually the pulsation of the heart returned, and
he quite recovered. In the evening of the same
day, however, he composed himself in the same
manner and really died. Disease of the heart,
UNDUE ATTENTION TO THE BODY, 225
under unnatural attention to the organ, caused
the phenomena. Catdan must have been subject
to some singular disease, for he says, " Whenever
I wish it, I can go out of my body so as to feel
no sensation whatever; as if I were in ecstacy.
When I enter this state, or more properly speak-
.ing, when I plunge myself into ecstacy, I feel
my soul issuing out of my heart, and as it were
quitting it, as well as the rest of my body, through
a small aperture formed at first in the head and
particularly in the cerebellum. This aperture,
which runs down the spinal column, can only be
kept open by great effort. In this situation I
feel nothing but the bare consciousness of existing
out of my own body, from which I am distinctly
separated. But I cannot remain in this state
more than a very few moments."
Some strange philosophers have entertained so
daring an idea of the mightiness of the will over
the vital organization as to declare that if a man
determined not to die he would not. The will,
however, has scarcely anything to do with the
matter; for it is a fact that the bodily condition
immediately preceding death generally produces,
or at least is accompanied by·such a quiescence of
mind, that volition itself seems to slumber or con-
sent to death, and there is almost always after
long and great debility a peaceful anticipation of
the coming event.
\
CHAPTER V.
MISEMPLOYMENT OP THE MIND.
THE foregoing facts forcibly teach us, as indeed
does every man's experience, that rest is as neces-
sary as action, and neither body nor mind con-
tinue fit for the business of this life without an
occasional withdrawal of the will, either in sleep,
or in a little quiet castle-building, or brown study.
" The understanding takes repose
In indolent vacuity of thought,
And sleeps and is refreshed."
The mind thus proceeds dreamily, and therefore
without that determination of blood to the brain
which the continued exercise of volition and de-
sire always occasions; for the will demands a large
supply of blood in order to evolve nervous power
for the energizing of the muscles, as volition is
peculiarly associated with muscular function, prov-
ing that healthy will is necessarily connected with
bodily activity. This indolent vacuity, however,
may become habitual, and then a legion of evils
of the worse kind crowd in upon the soul, for ir-
ritability takes the place of natural action when
the body is not duly employed.
MISEMPLOYMENT OF THE MIN]). 227
Neglect of education often causes permanent
inability to maintain attention. If the faculties
be not strengthened by occasional exercise under
proper teaching, the soul becomes at length the
slave of imagination, and is apt to dally with any
empty fancy that may attract it. Some ignis
fatu'UII, some foolish glitter of false light, is the
only object likely to be pursued by a person who
has not been taught from childhood the use of
reason, or who has not enjoyed the blessing of
high motives and encouragement imparted by
example. Ifsuch a one read, it is for amusement,
without the smallest power of grasping argument;
and he being, from the idle habit of the brain, at
the ~ercy of vulgar or ludicrous associations, the
most serious subjects provoke loose ideas, instead
of conducing to thoughtfulness and improvement.
This kind of madness is very common with ill-
educated young persons, before the trials of life
correct their vagrant fancies, and subdue their
selfishness. Frivolity of mind sometimes settles
into permanent insanity in such persons, and a
multiplicity of unmeaning, unprofitable, unapplied
thoughts succeed each other with ungoverned ra-
pidity; for imagination must act when the will
and judgment decline their duty ; and thus at
length the poor imbecile trifler, by the abuse of
his nervous system, has his life converted into a
miserable dream, and he becomes visibly a fool ;
228 llriiSEMPLOYMENT OP THE MIND,
for his form and features, action and expres-
sion, correspond with his mental imbecility. The
pursuit of sensual exciting and enervating plea-
sures,-another turn which the mind not intellec-
tually employed is apt to take,-speedily conducts
the giddy youth, as many such cases testify, to
the worst cells of the madhouse. The stock of
enjoyment being soon exhausted, the brain be-
comes useless; and worn in body and debased in
mind, the wretched victim of imaginative sensu-
ality is early subjected to every species of mor-
bid sensation and desire. Having neither taste
nor energy for rational pllrsuit, without resource
in intellect, affection or r~ligion, he becomes at
length the prey of a terrible ·despair, which ter-
minates only in idiocy or death.
Sentimentalism, and all other mental extrava-
gancies, are but the different directions which
uncultivated minds are accustomed to take, and
unhappily these dispositions are highly contagious.
"There is nothing so absurd, false, prodigious,
but either out of affection of novelty, simplicity,
blind zeal, hope and fear, the giddy-headed mul-
titude will embrace it, and without examination
approve it."* All these are evinced by bodily
peculiarities and disorders in keeping with their
mental causes, and thus men's creeds and fancies
are almost expressed in their bodies. The conta-
* Burton.
MISEMPLOYMENT OF THE MIND. 229
gion of folly, moreover, spreads widely and rapidly;
because the physicalconstitution of fallen man is
in direct sympathy with those passions which
most readily manifest themselves in the features,
the attitude, the action, the language, the tone
of voice, the turn of a hand. We are all more
or less moved by what we witness of feeling in
others; and as, when the body is weakened by
fatigue, nervous disorders-such as hysteria, con-
vulsions, and epilepsy-may be communicated to
multitudes by their compliance with the instinct
of imitation; so the powerful exhibition of any
passion or enthusiasm is apt to impress all those
who witness it with a potency, proportioned to
the vigour of their nerves and the degree of con-
trol which their reason is accustomed to exercise
over their sensations. We may thus readily ac-
count for the wide and almost universal diffusion
of the dancing mania, and other maladies, partak-
ing both of a moral and a physical character,
during the dark ages and amongst people unblest
by the restraining habits and elevating associations
of rational and religious education. All history is
full of evidence that ignorant minds yield at once
to the force of sensual impressions ; and that,
because the brain and nerves, when not governed
by indwelling intelligence, are predisposed to obey
whatever impulse from without may demand their
sympathy. Hence also every species of violent
230 HISEMPLOYMENT OF THE HIND.
emotion is irresistibly propagated amongst such
persons; for insanity, and the most obstinate
forms of nervous disorder, thus become epidemic;
and, like the swine possessed by the legion of
demons, those who are not fortified by truth rush
one after another over the precipice to destruction.
When considering the influence of sympathy, we
shall find further illustrations of this subject.
But not only are such thoughtless ill-trained per-
sons apt to suffer in this manner, but also all who
live rather in lonely speculation than in active
usefulness. Such individuals are exceedingly liable
to a disorder called hypochondriasis, which is
manifestly connected with bodily disease, aris-
ing from injudicious employment of the brain, in
solitary musings and deep and protracted study,
or anxieties without the reliefof frequent social in-
tercourse and cheerful exercise. Luther, speaking
of his own tendency to this malady, arising from
excessive and anxious application, says, " Heavy
thoughts do enforce rheums : when the soul is
busied with grievous cogitations, the body must
partake of the same. When cares, heavy cogita-
tions, sorrows and passions, do exceed, then they
weaken the body; which, without the soul, is
dead, or like a horse without one to rule it. But
when the heart is at rest and quiet, then it taketh
care of the body. Whoso is possessed with these
trials, should in no case be alone nor hide himself,
MISEMPLOYMENT OP THE MIND, 231
and so bite and torment himself with his and the
devil's cogitations and possessings; for the Holy
Ghost saith, 'Woe to him that is alone.' "
Of course as the mind is always employed while
a person is awake, one train of ideas cannot be
displaced but by substituting another. Hence
the importance of cliange of place and of object
when the affections or emotions are morbidly ex-
cited, or the nervous system enervated by the
continued action of one train of thought.
Hypochondriasis presents itself in the most
whimsical forms, in consequence of the morbid
condition of those nerves which conduce to sensa-
tion. Thus some imagine themselves dead, and
others declare their bodies to be the abode of un-
heard-of maladies. One thinks his stomach is
full of frogs, and he hears them croak ; another
thinks his body a lump of butter, and he is afraid
to walk in the sun lest he should be melted. A
lady, who had led an idle life, imagined herself
a pound of candles, and dreaded the approach of
night, fearing the maid should take a part of her
for use.
That illusive convictions are all more or less
associated with actual disorder of that part of
the nervous system on which perception depends,
is evident from sensation being so blunted in
many bad cases, that persons so afllicted do not
232 HISE.MPLOYHENT OF THE HIND.
feel anything applied to the skin. This is exem-
plified to the greatest extent in a case related by
Foville. A man was wounded at the battle of
Austerlitz, and ever after he was insanely con-
vinced that he had no bodily existence; and there
seemed to be no method of convincing him to the
contrary, for in fact he was 'not sensible of any-
thing done to his body unless he saw the action :
feeling was quite absent. Whether this affection
arose from impression first received on his mind,
or on his body, it is difficult to discover; but it is
certain that such maladies are sometimes cured
by merely convincing the mind of its mistake.
Nervous diseases, being disorders of sensation
as well as of will, are to be treated with great
patience and forbearance; although the whimsi-
calities of the complaint are frequently so ludi-
crous that "to be grave exceeds all power of face."
Many droll stories might be written concerning
them, but who can deem them fit to be laughed
at ? It will be found that nervous exhaustion,
from over attention, or repeated sensation without
proper intervals of rest, is the common cause of
this strange malady. These states of mind may
perhaps be sometimes the result of violent, long-
continued, and irresistible emotion ; yet we must
not be unmindful that they are frequently the in-
evitable consequence of neglecting the early dis-
MISEMPLOYMENT OF THE MIND. 233
cipline of the will; for the dominion of passion
over judgment generally presupposes a moral
dereliction.
The potency of emotion over our bodies is every
where visible; for ourwhole active life is altogether
an exhibition of passions at their work, and our
projects and our plans are directed to no other
end than the gratification of desire. The most
restless spirit soonest destroys the body, but the
most bustling is not the busiest soul-mental in-
tensity is silent. It is the mind that uses life,
and the law of our earthly existence is equally
broken both by inaction and by excess. The
motive power requires regulation; for whether too
rapid or too slow, if the action be irregular, the
machinery is equally endangered. We are formed
for moderation; and our safety consists only with
the steady employment of vital power under moral
restraints ; hence distinctness of object and pur-
pose is essential to health of mind, and for the
preservation of that orderly action of the nervous
syStem without which we are diseased in body also.
Every faculty and function therefore requires its
appropriate exercise, for inaction is scarcely more
liable to be followed by a morbid train of miseries
than is disappointed or distracted activity. The
interruption of a mental purpose or desire involves
the material through which the mind acts in its
own disorder, as the machinery suffers when the
234 MISEMPLOY:MENT OF THE MIND.
power which puts it into motion is fitfully em-
ployed, or unduly excited or misdirected. Our
experience testifies that the greatest mental con-
fusion and distress of brain arise not so much from
steadily continued and determined effort of the
mind, in a rational manner, as from interruption
to the purpose of the will. Thus, when some
daily vexation breaks the chain of thought, or
draws the attention oft' from the intellectual pur-
suit on which the spirit had earnestly been bent, ·
displeasure and distraction take the place of com-
placency, and the cause of the disturbance is apt,
when thus frequently returning, to take complete
possession of the mind, and to haunt the attention
like a hateful goblin, blighting the soul with its
cloudy presence. Hence the soured misanthrope
often appears when the philosopher might have
been expected; for unless the man of thought has
his heart soothed by affectionate and comfortable
appliances, in a suitable and seasonable manner,
his resolute and perplexed spirit, incapable of rest-
ing from reflection, is very likely to find successive
vexations terminate in madness, or some milder
form of mental derangement or unhappy eccen-
tricity, which constrains him to seek pleasure only
in imagination and with solitude.
Those who are connected with persons consti-
tutionally prone to reflectiveness cannot be too
cautious in their manner of opposing the bias of
liUSEMPLOYMENT OP THE MIND. 235
their dispositions, or too gently endeavour to win
them from the danger of absorbing study, for both
their sensibilities and affections are generally fine
in proportion to the intensity with which they
habitually contemplate the objects of their atten-
tion. Men of genius, whatever the direction of
their minds, are usually as full of feeling as of
thought, their intellect being urged on under the
dominion of that love which cannot rest without
constant approval. Their habit of abstraction may
cause them to appear selfish, unsocial, or absurdly
whimsical, but they are only engaged too intensely
to exhibit in an ordinary manner the appearance
of passing interest. They are, however, exactly
those who are most subject to insanity, as their
minds are kept unavoidably busy to the full extent
of nervous endurance. Yet persons of this deep
style of thinking and feeling are most devoted to
the well-being. of others, and are the first to
demonstrate the nobility of their nature by those
self-sacrifices which have distinguished the best
names in history.
Cowper and Byron may be instanced as opposite
examples of bad modes of education, terminating
in morbid habits of thinking, and exhibiting by
fits and starts the finest traits of generous nature
in the most contrary and inconsistent manners.
CHAPTER VI.
CHAGRIN AND St:ICIDE.
WE know that determination must vastly excite
the brain when the student or the statesman is
induced by desire for doubtful distinction, to
spend his days and his nights in the distractions
of vacillating hopes and fears. Under the strain
of these conflicting passions how many a mighty
mind sinks into insanity amidst the mysterious
darkness of which some demon whispers close
upon the ear, "No hope, no aim, no use in life,
the knife is now before you." Long, however,
before this terrific state of mind occurs, the body
gives unheeded warning of the growing danger,
by irregular appetites, tormenting visions, and
unaccountable sensations; for insanity is always a
bodily malady, although perhaps in most cases
moral delinquency is superadded, and the will
has been disordered before the body. Although
the destructive propensity may sometimes cause
suicide under a sudden impulse, or it may even
arise from a morbid disposition to imitate, yet it
is probable that the irritability of the body, which
CHAGRIN AND SUICIDE. 237
allows not a respite to the soul, from the constant .
stimulus to attention and will, most frequently
drives the melancholy maniac to commit suicide.
Death seems in these cases the only refuge from
the weary vigilance of morbid sensibility. This
awful remedy is frequently sought under the im-
pulse of a kind of instinct, when the mind becomes
so possessed by its misery as to be quite incapable
of comparing the desire felt with previous con-
victions, and so the patient is blindly urged on,
by longing for relief, to use the first opportunity
for self-destruction which may present itself,
association only serving to connect the means of
death with the idea of escape from a tormenting
body or some haunting impression. The frequent
connection of the disposition to suicide with the
despondent forms of insanity, warrants the sup-
position that despair, if not met by the solace of
affection, would always lead its subject to the same
dark resort; as the scorpion is said to destroy itself
with its own sting, when encircled by dangers from
which it cannot escape.
The love of approbation, which is closely con-
nected with the love of society, is generally the
strongest of our passions, and is that by which the
lower passions are restrained within the limits of
common decorum. It is the disappointment of
this passion, or chagrin, which most frequently
disposes to suicide. Man's hell is the feeling of
238 CHAGRIN AND SUICIDE.
solitude, or the dread of being despised ; and if
his associates cast him out of their pale, or appear
completely to excommunicate him from their
sympathies, he seems as if at once possessed by
Satan. Should this wounding of his proud desire
deprive him of all hope of restoration to the heart
at least of some one being who can love him in
spite of his faults, he will rush unbidden into the
darkness of another world, the apprehension of
which is less terrible to him than the loneliness in
which he suffers. So common is this catastrophe,
that it appears like the result of a natural law of
the guilty mind, when unacquainted with divine
truth, and unsustained by the hopeful conscious-
ness of spiritual and etemal life. Hence hea-
thenism and infitlelity have always approved self-
murder as the proper remedy of extreme vexation.
If we may credit report, it would appear that
mere animals are also impelled by the same feel-
ing under similar circumstances : thus it is related
in the Travels and Adventures of Monsieur Violet,
the truth ofwhich is avouched by Captain Maryatt,
that he saw horses, that had been tyrannized over
by other horses, and treated by the whole herd as
outcasts, commit suicide. When tired of their
paria life they walk round and round some large
tree, as if to ascertain the degre~ of hardness
required, measure their distance, and darting with
furious.speed against it, fracture their skulls, and
CHAGRIN AND SUICIDE. 239
thus get rid of life and oppression together. He
says that squirrels sometimes persecute one among
their number till he destroys himself; and he
states, that" one day while we were watching this
outcast of a squirrel, we detected a young one
slowly creeping through the adjoining shrubs, he
had in his mouth a ripe fruit, at every moment he
would stop and look if he were watched, just as if
he feared detection. At last he arrived near the
paria, or outcast, and deposited before him hMt
offering to misery and old age. We watched this
spectacle with feelings which I could not describe :
there was such a show of meek gratitude on the
one side and happiness on the other, just as if he
enjoyed his good action. They were, however,
perceived by the other squirrels, who sprang by
dozens upon them; the young one with two
bounds escaped, the other submitted to his fate.
I rose. All the squirrels vanished except the
victim ; but that time, contrary to his habits, he
left the shrub and slowly advanced to the bank of
the river and ascended a tree. A minute after-
wards we observed him at the very extremity of a
branch projecting over the rapid waters, and we
heard his plaintive shriek. It was his farewell to
life and misery." This story will serve as a
parable expressive of human conduct-but one
amongst a multitude runs the risk of showing
240 CHAGRIN AND SUICIDE.
kindness to the outcast, while the rest are bent
upon driving the wretched to destruction.
The association between neglect, ill-usage,
despondency, and suicide, is of great practical
importance, especially in relation to those who
suffer from the terrors of that most awful malady,
religious despair, which usually commences with
seclusion, and a state the reverse of self-com-
placency, conjoined with strong affection insuffi-
ciently regarded.
Happy is it if the suicidal catastrophe be
averted by such a failure of some organ or func-
tion of the body as shall arrest the ambitious, the
wayward, or the lonely spirit even with the stroke
of death; but more blessed still to find associa-
tion with calm and loving minds, and, like Kirke
White, to take admonishment from the uncer-
tainty and comparative worthlessness of this
world's honours and attachments, to prepare for
the untiring activities of a nobler state.
" Come, Disappointment, come !
Though from hope's 81lll1Dlit hurled,
Still rigid nurse thou art forgiven,
For thou, severe, wert sent from heaven
To wean me from the world ;
To turn mine eye
From vanity,
And point to scenes of life that never, never die."
This reference to Kirke White reminds us that
CHAGRIN AND SUICIDE. 241
the influence of the mental state is remarkably
exhibited in the progress of organic diseases.
Medical practitioners can bear ample testimony
to the fact, that religious feeling, that is, calm
resignation to the supreme will, soothes and tran-
quillizes the sufferer's frame more than all medical
appliances. Often does he witness the triumph
of faith over bodily aftliction, as consumption for
instance, with slow and fatal· hand steals away the
life-blood from the youth who lately, perhaps in
the height of moral danger, adorned the drawing-
room, or bore the palm of academic strife. While
in the bloom and brilliancy of body and mind,
when most sensitive and alive to all the passionate
and beautiful associations of affection and of in-
tellect, the spoiler stealthily crept in, but pre-
viously a light from heaven had entered his heart,
and therefore, while the malady built up the
barrier between time and his spirit, the patient
relied upon the hand that chastened him; he felt
that pain and weakness, and weariness and dis-
appointment and death, are not fortuitous occur-
rences, but the process by which the wisdom of
God effects the weaning and separation of the
believing soul from sin, sorrow, and distracting
attachments, to fill it for ever with intelligence,
peace, and perfection. Hence, with becoming
composure, he submitted to the purifying trial of
his faith, and said, w\lile .llis fe~tures reflected the
M
242 CBAG:&IN AND SUICIDE.
divine love which he contemplated-" Even so,
Father, for eo it aeemeth good in thy sight." No
fever of the mind added to the hectic which con-
sumed his body, and the disease was not only
better bome, but really much retarded and ame-
liorated by the " strong consolations'' of Christian
faith.
CHAPTER VII.
IRRITABLE BRAIN, INSANITY, &c.
MANY terrible nervous diseases are but the natural
disturbance of a bad conscience. Such a course
of conduct before God and man as secure ap-
proval of heart, will often cure such diseases
without the aid of the physician. The cordial of
daily duty, properly fulfilled, is the proper remedy.
How often have we seen the haggard hypochon-
driac, both in hut and mansion, cured of all his
anomalous maladies by a true view of religion and
by the activity which springs.from it. The terrors
that haunted his darkened spirit have been dissi-
pated by the light of heaven; his shaken nerves
have been tranquillized, and the peace of faith has
brought new brightness into his eye; a pleasant
buoyancy has lifted his heart, and a resistless im-·
pulse of good will has diffused a healthful vigour
through every fibre and every feature. So power-
ful is the habit of a man's faith on his person,
that sagacious physicians often correctly infer the
religious state and persuasion from the patient's
appearance.
M2
244 IBBITABLE BRAIN, ETC.
That bodily disorder which favours the mani-
festation of the mind in an insane manner may
be produced by any of our passions, when unre-
strained by a holy understanding; the best
blessings may thus be converted into curses-the
best gifts into the most injurious agents. Some
say religion is a frequent cause of insanity; No;
true religion is the spirit of love, of power, and of
a sound mind; ever active in diversified duties
and delights, always busy in a becoming manner
and in decent order. But the wild notions, un-
meaning superstitions, spiritual bondage, unre-
quired and forbidden attempts to reconcile the
rites and ceremonies which wayward men have
substituted for the liberty of God, begin in dis-
obedience and end in darkness. It is strange fire
in the censer which brings down the flaming ven-
geance, and opens a passage to the infinite abyss.
Excessive employment of the body, and that
anxiety which springs from too earnest a pursuit
of our own wills, are, when acting together, ex-
ceedingly likely to disorder the organism of the
mental faculties; and whether one be truly religi-
ous or only superstitious, the result will be the
same; because excess of any kind is a direct in-
fringement of the invariable law of God.
Delirium may arise either from mental stimu-
lants or from mental sedatives, in a weakened and
wearied state of the brain. In either case the
IRRITABLE BRAIN, ETC. 245
same effects follow ; as the organization is so dis-
turbed that it consents not in due order to the
force which, in its proper condition, is formed to
actuate it, namely, the mind. To make a mental
exertion when the brain is wearied or unduly ex-
cited, is only to aggravate disorder and endanger
the fine fabric thus violently acted upon. Thus it
is that men of mental determination, under the
force and pressure of urgent business, instead of
yielding to the indications of weariness, continue
to work on till delirium takes the place of healthy
attention. The secretary of an extensive and use-
ful institution, for instance, suffers from bad
health; his mind and heart find no rest at home ;
at this juncture the directors call for accounts and
a multitude of correspondents are urgent for re-
plies. He finds some one of these agents is guilty
of defalcation. He grows miserable; his diges-
tion fails, be appears flushed and flurried, his head
aches, be can scarcely connect his thoughts, his
hand trembles, he uses wrong words both in
speaking and in writing; he retires, and imme-
diately begins to connect the feeling of his own
inability to attend to business with the idea of
robbing his employers, and at length fancies that
he is the defaulter, by whose case his mind has
been excited. He thinks himself the guilty per-
son, and, haunted by the worst consequent phan-
toms, he becomes intolerable to himself, and feels
246 IRRITABLE BRAIN1 ETC,
as if called on to expiate his crime by destroying
his life with his own hand. His pious habit still
prevails, and he executes the horrible deed in
calm and devout resignation to what he deems the
will of heaven. This is a true case, and is no un-
common result ofdisobedience to the natural. law,
which insists on our seeking rest when wearied,
and submitting patiently to infirmity as our daily
portion.
All disobedience to the Divine laws, whether
natural or moral, must of course be inevitably
followed by suffering and disorder; nor can any
one who exposes himself to its causes be exempt,
unless by miracle, from insanity or hallucination,
as long as mind acts through matter, and mani-
fests itself in keeping with its condition.
Remarkable intellectual energy is so often asso-
ciated with enthusiasm or intensity of mental
character and extravagance of conduct, that it has
become a proverb :-" Great wit to madness is
allied." And probably the excessive activity of
mind sometimes springs from actual disorder of
brain, although the habit aud education of the
will of the individual may enable him so far to
control its influence as that a degree of disease
which, in another worse trained, might produce
decided symptoms of insanity, shall, in this case,
only prove a powerful stimulus to manageable ima-
gination. The susceptibility of genius to the ex-
IRRITABLE BRAIN, ETC. 247
citement of society generally betrays itself in
eccentricities, which minds less endowed regard
with amazement ; as if these odd traits were some
inexplicable mystery and contradiction instead of
the necessary result of the nervous tension, to
which such morbid beings are constantly subject.
It may appear, at first sight, unreasonable to
connect genius with disease, but an intimacy with
the history of notable men will demonstrate their
relation to each other ; not that they are neces-
sarily associated, as cause and consequence, but
that the direct operation of intense motives, such
as stimulate master minds, leads to disorder of
the brain, and disorder of the brain reacts to
maintain a perverted bias or injurious habit of
application. Those who are restrained in their
ambitious or pleasurable pursuits by moral or
religious principles, are happily preserved from
the danger of catering to the public appetite for
marvellous, monstrous, and startling exhibitions
of talent; but gifted persons, who submit to the
enormous demand, and ransack the regions of
invention for new wonders and striking combina-
tions, are always running the risk of losing the
mastery over their own faculties, simply because
it is a law of the humau mental constitution to
confirm a chosen habit into an absolute necessity;
because the brain, constantly used in one man-
ner, whether naturally or artificially, cannot act
248 IRRITABLE BRAIN, ETC,
in any other; but, enthralled by a task-tyrant of
its own choice, it works on in chains like a galley
slave, and dies early of its chosen toil. This effect
of habit in determining genius accounts for the
progress of deception under the control of design-
ing men of great enthusiasm, such as Mahomet
and Joseph Smith, the inventor of Mormonism.
They began by some trick to help themselves, and
thus discovering their power over the simple-
Ininded, they persisted in deception till they be-
came unable to think or act but as deceivers. At
length~ probably the habit was confirmed by their
becoming insane converts to their own lies, be-
lieving the whims of their own imaginations to btl
the especial revelations of heaven. Like a horse
in a mill, the mind thus goes round and round in
the same circle, till it turns blind and incapable of
straight forward exertion. Its very dreams are of
the beaten track.
An accumulated irritability of brain results
from incessant effort of mind ; and to such an
extent are poets subject to this infirmity that
they have won the cognomen of a distinct race--
genus irritabile. But all imprudent thinkers are
obnoxious to the same suffering. Even our great
philosopher, Newton, sometimes gave vent to ill-
temper or soothed his nerves by the bane of to-
bacco, instead oftaking rest or appropriate change.
And many of our best artists, whether in words
IRRITABLE BRAIN, ETC. 249
or more solid materials, have been martyrs to
head-ache and the fashion of excitement. Thus
Wilkie was often obliged to shut himself up in a
dark room, because light was too stimulant for
his brain, and Paganini paid dearly for his con-
summate excellence as a musician. Speaking to
a friend, he stated that he scarcely knew what
sleep was ; aud his nerves were wrought to such
almost preternatural acuteness, that harsh, even
common sounds, often became torture to him. He
.was sometimes unable to bear a whisper in his
room. His passion for music he described as an
all-absorbing, a consuming one; in fact he looked
as if no other life than that ethereal one of me-
lody were circulating in his veins ; but he added,
with a glow of triumph kindling through deep
sadness,-" Mais c'est un don du ciel."*
Byron, after an intellectual debauch, was ac-
customed to mope in total laziness. What this
intense poet says of himself is very instructive-
"! feel a disrelish more powerful than indifference.
If I rouse, it is into a fury. I presume I shall
end like Swift-dying at top. But Swift had
hardly begun life at the very period (thirty-three)
when I feel quite an old sort of feel. I have been
considering why I always awake at a certain hour
in the morning and always in very bad spirits : I
may say in actual despair and despondency in all
• Mn. Hemana' Life.
250 IRRITABLE BRAIN, ETC.
respects. I have drank fifteen bottles of soda
water in one night after going to bed, and still
been thirsty. A dose of salts has the effect of a
temporary inebriation like light champagne upon
me. But wine and spirits make me sullen and
savage to ferocity; silent, however, and retiring,
and not quarrelsome if not spoken to."
These facts prove that his genius was associated
with a diseased brain, of which indeed he died;
but whether the disease was the result of undue
mental action, or the cause of it, we need not
now inquire : it is sufficient to point out the con-
nexion. Byron is but a strong example of the
poetic temperament, and in many respects of the
other orders of genius also, for they are all dis-
tinguished by extraordinary determination of will;
subject however to paroxysms, like an intermit-
tent fever, a succession of cold and hot fits, with
healthier intervals, since the nervous system will
not tolerate a constant enthusiasm. All violence
is but the exception to natural order, and the
mighty affiatus or mental inspiration, which the
world so much admires, can no more be com-
manded or expected as a matter of course than
can the hurricane or the earthquake, and their
continuance is alike destructive.
Virgil's description of the inspired Pythoness,
presents a glowing picture of the Inind's excite-
ment, kindling the body for a time into unnatural
IRRITABLE BRAIN, ETC, 251
action and then leaving it exhausted and powerless,
-an effect that equally follows every great,enthusi-
astic, intellectual or passionate exertion of the will.
" Aloud she cries
This is the time I enquire your destinies.
He comes ! behold the god ! Thus while she said,
(And shivering at the sacred entry staid),
Her colour changed ; her face was not the same,
And hollow groans from her deep spirit came.
Her hair stood up ; convulsive rage possessed
Her trembling limbs ; and heaved her labouring heart,
Greater than human kind she seemed to look,
And with an accent more than mortal spoke ;
Her staring eyes with sparkling fury roll,
When all the god came rushing on her soul,
Swiftly she turned and foaming as she spoke,
At length her fury fell ; her foaming ceased
And ebbing in her soul the god decreased."
The common sense of mankind, before the materi-
alists extinguished the soul, which gave life even to
the doctrines of heathens, naturally ascribed all
bodily and mental agitations to some indwelling
spirit, and regarded visible actions as the result
of invisible agencies, so as always to connect the
physical with the spiritual; and doubtless, there-
fore, they more firmly realized the fact of their
immediate relation to an immaterial existence. A
far more beautiful and ennobling philosophy was
theirs than the mere materialists enjoy, because
nearer that of divine truth than the notion that
traces mind no further than to chemical affinities,
252 IBBITABLB BBAIS, I!TC.
and views the death of the vigilant soul in the
destruction of its dwelling place.
Dr. Wollaston, who was a Christian philosopher,
died of disease of the brain. He preserved to
the close of hia liCe the philosophic habit of obser-
vation which distinguished hia character. Sublime
is the lesson, to see how he exercised the higher
faculties of hia intellect in reasoning on the causes
and progress of bis malady in the disorder of his
sensations, memory, and the power of motion,
as it advanced in its incursion upon one part after
another of those portions of the brain which sub-
serve the mind in relation to will and conscious-
ness. He noted the phenomena of death, as it •
gradually took possession of his body, and experi-
mented on his faculties to ascertain the amount
of living power remaining. Here we witness an
intelligent being watching the gradual destruction
of the instruments with which it was accustomed
to seek and communicate intellectual enjoyment.
The spirit takes its last look at its material resi-
dence, and seems voluntarily to withdraw from an
abode so incommodious while reasoning about the
causes of its unfitness. Up to the very verge of
this life's horizon we see that the willing and rea-
soning man remains a willing and reasoning being
still. Shall we dare to say we have traced the
footsteps of that man to the limit of his being ?
As well might we say a star is extinguished be-
IRRITABLE BRAIN, ETC. 258
cause it has set to our sight. The invisible spirit
evinced itself here by using earthly elements, and
in wise communion with the wonders of creative
skill, and its departure was but an entrance into
existence more in keeping with its nature. What
the philosopher observed decaying was not himself,
the observer, and that which died, was not that
which enjoyed life.
CHAPTER VIII.
A GENERAL VIEW OF THE EFFECTS OF THE PASSIONS ON
HEALTH.
OuR passions are the grand conservators as well
as disturbers of the healthy action of our bodies ;
and they exercise so direct an influence over the
functions of life as to be properly classified with
medicinal agents. Indeed they often act with no
less power than the most heroic medicines, and
are as rapid, and sometimes as fatal in their ope-
ration, as prussic acid or any other deadly poison.
A brief review of the prominent effects of our
passions on our bodies will afford a striking illus-
tration of the independent existence of the mind,
and at the same time present a subject of the
highest practical consideration. Medically speak-
ing, the emotions are regarded either as depress-
ing or exciting, - sedative or stimulant ; but
probably their influence, although always ac-
knowledged, is yet too generally undervalued in
the treatment of disease.
Hope is the cordial by which our benevolent
Creator cheers every heart that is not resolutely
set against the reception of .his goodness. A
EFFECTS OF THE PASSIONS, ETC. 255
remarkable, and consequently often-quoted in-
stance, of the curative influence of hope occurred
during the siege of Breda, in 1625, when the gar-
rison was on the point of surrendering from the
ravages of scurvy, principally induced by mental
depression. A few phials of sham medicine were
introduced, by order of the Prince of Orange,
as an infallible specific. It was given in drops
and produced astonishing effects. Such as had
not moved their limbs for mont:!ls before were
seen walking in the streets-sound, straight, and
well.
Not to refer to the long list of pseudo-miracles
by royal touch and at the tombs of common
saints, sight to the blind and hearing to the
deaf, with the cure of every sickness, were said
to have been conferred on the faithful devotees
who flocked to the tomb of Abbe Paris, the
famous Jansenist; and what is most extraordi~
these cases were proved on the spot, before judges
of integrity, attested by witnesses of credit in a
learned age (A.D. 1724), and on the most ezninent
theatre in the world. Among a multitude of
similar cures, it is testified that a hunch-backed
girl was kicked and trampled into a beautiful
shape, by being stretched on the ground, while
a number of stout men trode and jumped with
all their might on her stomach and ribs. The
treatment was in all cases of so rough a kind
256 EF!'ECTS OP THE PABSIONI
that it required a confidence amounting to lnnacy
to submit to it, and the exercise of a power aa
supematnral at least, if not as deceptive, as Sa-
tan's, in order to survive it. However, as Pascal
said, "we must believe those who are ready to
have their throats cut to prove their faith." The
priests appealed to the remains of their saint in
attestation of their own sanctity, and of course
miracles followed ; and then what more natural
than that the lame, the halt, and the blind,
should, in hopeful crowds, surround the wonder-
working bones of St. Paris 7 What more natural,
except that many of them, under the violent
persuasion of their own desire and many heavy
blows, should speedily depart miraculously healed7
Eloquence is not needed to describe the mighti-
ness of Hope. She speaks for herself to every
mortal, and supplies, gratis, to every sufferer a
well-authenticated universal remedy; far safer,
indeed, without the vaunted vegetables, aloes,
and gamboge than with them. It may be indulged
with little risk, which cannot be said of whole-
sale Morrisonian pill-taking, nor even of the
recent but now exploded catholicon brandy and
salt. Hope, like an angel, can concentrate her
healing virtue in a homreopathic globule, or dif-
fuse it through all the multitudinous baths,
douches, and wet bandages of hydropathic es-
tablishments. Her bright face is seen in every
ON HEALTH, 257
stream. If we listen, we hear her voice when-
ever the breath of heaven visits us. " Hope
enchanted smiles and waves her golden hair,'' as
she dances before us on the hills and in the
vallies; health and laughter are in her steps, and
while we gaze upon her joyous beauty a lithesome
spirit animates our limbs, and the blooming
hilarity of her features is reflected from our own.
Fear is also sometimes curative. The great
:Boerhaave had a number of patients seized with
epileptic fits in an hospital, from sympathy with
a person who fell down in convulsions before
them. This physician was puzzled how to act,
for the sympathetic fits were as violent and obsti-
nate as those arising from bodily disease ; but,
reflecting that they were produced by impres-
sion on the mind, he resolved to eradicate them
by a still stronger impression, and so directed
hot irons to be prepared and applied to the
first person who subsequently had a fit; the
consequence was that not a person was seized
afterwards.
An officer in the Indian army was confined to
his bed by asthma and could only breathe in an
erect posture; but a party of Mahrattas broke
into the camp, and fearing certain death, he
sprang out with amazing activity, mounted his
horse and used his sword with great execution,
although the day before he could not draw it
258 EFFECTS OP THE PASSIONS
from its scabbard. A beautiful example of the
curative operation of affectionate apprehension
is given by Wordsworth, in his singular story of
the Idiot Boy.
Hildanus relates that a man, disguised 88 a
ghost, took another labouring under severe gout
from his bed and carried him on his back down
the stairs, dragging his painful and swollen feet
down the steps and placed him on the ground.
He immediately recovered the use of his limbs,
and swiftly ran up stairs under the strongest
terror, and never had the gout again. In these
cases fear acted with all the stimulating force of
necessity, which is proverbially powerful.
But the gentler and more pleasing emotions
sometimes effect the same apparently miraculous
restoration. The case of an old man, who la-
boured under shaking palsy, was related by Mr.
Kingdon, at the Medical Society of London.
This person had been long unable to walk. The
child of a friend was admitted to see him, and
so greatly delighted was he that he arose, walked
across the room, took some paper, went to ano-
ther part of the room, filled the paper with small
shells, gave it to the child, and then sat down 88
paralytic as before.
Terror causes the blood suddenly to leave the
extreme parts of the frame; the countenance
becomes livid, the brain excited, the large arte-
ON HEALTH. 259
ries distended, the heart swells, the eyes start,
the muscles become rigid or convulsed, and faint-
ness, and perhaps sudden death, ensue. Fear,
whether it be from a real or an imaginary object,
is equally influential on the body. A woman
had her gown bitten by a dog; she had heard of
hydrophobia, and immediately fancied that·· she
had it; and, what is most surprising, she actually
died of symptoms so like canine madness that
skilful physicians could not discover any difference.
John Hunter, the celebrated anatomist, attributed
the disease of the heart of which he ultimately
.died in a fit of anger, to the fear of having caught
hydrophobia while dissecting the body of a patient
who died of that disease. Dr. Holland states
that a young man was so severely affected by the
continual intrusion of illusory images of a frightful
kind, that in a few weeks his hair turned from
black to white.
As recollected ideas often follow the same train
as when first impressed, a lively remembrance of
past effects is apt to renew the same actions of the
body. Probably the same state of nerve is again
produced. Hence the dispositions to repeat ac-
tions in an accustomed manner. Van Swietan
informs us of a child, being frightened into epi-
lepsy by a large dog leaping on it, in whom the
fit returned whenever the dog was heard to bark.
Had the child been capable of mental effort, the
260 EFFECTS OP THE PASSIONS
association might perhaps have been broken ; as
we find that epilepsy is often arrested by divert-
ing the nervous power by some strong voluntary
action of the body, or other determination of the
will ; and hence too, several popular remedies for
this disease exert a powerful influence over it, by
their effect on the imagination ; as that of the
band of a felon, recently hanged, applied to the
patient's brow while on the scaffold. The hand
of a murderer applied while banging from the
gibbet is said to be especially efficacious. For the
same purpose Pliny advised the blood of a dying
gladiator drunk warm, and Scribonius Largus di-
rects a portion of his liver to be eaten. Aretreus
prefers the raw heart of a coot and the brain of a
vulture. The nail taken from the arm of a cruci-
fied malefactor was an efficacious amulet accord-
ing to Alexander. Not two centuries since the
authentic remedy among English physicians was
the lichen which grew on a decaying human
skull.
Other nervous disorders are cured on the prin-
ciple of breaking the mental association ; thus
cramp is cured by rings made from the nails of
an old coffin, and all sorts of nerve-ache are now
within reach of art, since the magic galvanic rings
of copper and zinc, a mixture which must have
prevailed in the constitutions of their inventors,
are declared to be nothing short of miraculous,
ON HEALTH. 261
but of course they are tintended especially for
those who have only heard of science.
There is no doubt however that a feeling of awe
will modify the circulation, and probably the mys-
tery-men or medicine of the American Indians,
with its help, perform cures almost as wonderful
as those ascribed to Parr's life pills or any other
imposing pretension. Hence also the potency of
charms. This feeling of awe seems to partake
somewhat of the nature of horror, which is de-
monstrated to act powerfully on the blood vessels,
as is seen not only in the pallid appearance of
individuals suffering from it, but also in the com-
mon success of a vulgar remedy for hremorrhage,
namely a living toad hung about the neck. The
disgusting contact almost instantly arrests slight
bleedings. But perhaps this remedy is not more
efficacious than the cold key ; and it certainly is
not more in demand, and therefore it may be
presumed not more successful among our pea-
santry than the village blood-stauncher, who is
generally some shrewd old woman that sees a
little tlpoough her neighbours, and is near akin to
a witch. She is "great mystery/' as the Indians
say, and arrests bleedings by an awful manner, a
muttered unmeaning prayer, and a call for faith.
Extreme joy and extreme terror act in a man-
ner equally energetic. Occasionally the exhaus-
tion produced by them is so sudden that the nerv-
262 EFFECTS OP THE PASSIONS
ous system seems to be discharged of its power in
an instant. Culprits have received the tidings of
pardon, when standing under the gallows, and
have fallen dead in a moment as by a lightning
stroke.
That most stimulating of the passions, anger,
rouses the heart, produces a glow all over the
body, especially in the face ; causes the eyes to
glare ; strengthens the voice, and increases the
muscular power ; hence it has now and then sud-
denly cured gout and palsy, but much more fre-
quently it has proved fatal, by rupturing some
blood vessel. The blood, fevered by rage, rushes
with delirium over the burdened brain; the heart
for a while beats fiercely but "the acrid bile soon
chokes the fine ducts ;" every vessel is exhausted ;
the irritability ceases ; every muscle shakes ; the
whole strength is prostrated; and then, if palsy do
not happen, obstinate faintings ensue ; then con-
vulsions-then death-and the angry man meets
his God face to face.
Broussais and other eminent physiologists are
of opinion that rage is capable of generating a
most virulent and subtle poison, especially in the
saliva. They refer to numerous instances in
which wounds from enraged animals have been
followed by effects only to be accounted for by
supposing a virus communicated. This opinion
coincides with vulgar belief, and if true, as facts
ON HEALTH. 263
seem to affirm, the power of the mind in altering
the chemistry of life in a direct manner is thus
most clearly demonstrated. But indeed the same
fact is equally evinced by the common influence
of emotion over secretion. The classical reader
will remember Ovid's fine description of Envy.
Pallor in ore aedet ; macies in corpore toto ;
NW~quam recta acies ; livent rubigine dentes :
Pectora felle virent ; lingua est aulfusa venemo.
The description of a well-known disease will not
be here out of place. It begins with indulgence
in despondency, then follow loss of appetite, con-
stant pain in the stomach, difficulty of breathing,
paleness of the face and palms of the hands,
whiteness of the tongue with inky spots on it,
white lips, and inability to move. Then the white
of the eye becomes glassy, the skin turns of an
olive colour and cold to the touch, water collects
in every part of the body and the sufferer cannot
breathe except in an erect position. The glands
then become inflamed, the liver hardened ; and
the blood, poor, vapid and colourless, no longer
stimulates the heart, and death soon terminates the
scene. This is not the home sickness, or nostalgia,
which sprung up among the Swiss soldiers at the
sound of their native music, from a passion for
home; and which the kindliest associations often
failed to cure, without returning to the hills and
vallies, the sights and sounds, the domestic en-
264 EPFECTS OP THE PASSIONS
joyments and familiar delights, so endeared to
the heart by the strong sympathies of childhood,
as to localize the spirit of the man and fill his
memory with so delicious a sense of what he loved
and had lost, that his soul could perceive no joy
but in home, sweet home I The malady above
described is a more violent disease of the same
kind, and it is dignified by the title Cachea:ia
Africana, because, alas I it has killed thousands
on thousands of the children of Africa when
" forced from home and all its pleasures."
Are there not however many among us no less
pitiable, the victim& of frivolity, of fashion, of evil
genius, of anxious and ungodly trade, and of
every vice; led captive at the will of him who
pays his slaves for all their toils with grievous
penalty and death, without the hope of home
beyond it.
The slow fever of ana:iety presents the Protean
symptoms which everywhere obtrude themselves.
" The broad consumptive plague
Bresthes from the city to the farthest hut."
And its ravages are miserably visible in the union
houses, dispensaries, and hospitals of our land.
Every madhouse also furnishes instances of its
effects ; and, moreover, strangely presents the
most terrible examples of remorse and religious
despair; proving that Christianity is often taught
by mistaken men rather as a system of terror than
ON HEALTH. 265
as good news of gracious forgiveness to all those
who faithfully repent.
Fear and anxiety affect all the functions of the
body but especially of the stomach. They seem
to suppress the secretion of the fluid on which
digestion depends and also arrest the flow of sa-
liva. A curious illustration of this fact is afforded
in the method which the conjurers in India some-
times adopt for detecting theft among servants.
When a robbery has been committed a conjurer
is sent for, and great preparations are made. If
in a few days the property be not restored, he pro-
ceeds with his mysterious operations, one of which
is as follows :-The suspected are all required to
masticate a quantity of boiled rice for some time,
and then to spit it .upon separate leaves for in-
spection. He examines the masticated rice very
knowingly, and immediately points out the cui.
prit; the rice which he masticated being perfectly
dry, while that which was masticated by the others
is moistened by saliva.
Deferred and fruitless longing for a beloved
object is a frequent malady which always tends to
produce a remarkable deterioration of the blood,
thus of course impairing the function of every
organ. As the nervous system is most susceptible,
the evil is first revealed by distressing nervous
sensations. All periods and all conditions of life
are liable to this disease ; but the more artificial
N
266 EFFECTS OF THE PASSIONS
the society the more prevalent the malady; that
being considered the most natural society in which
the natural affections are most suitably engaged.
The prosperous fulfilment of our proper desires
is not only the best preservation of the joys of re-
lationship and the blessings of the social compact,
but the best security for the health of body and
of mind, both in parent and offspring ; for the
state of the blood, on which health mainly de-
pends, is influenced almost as much by our feel-
ings as by our food.
The grand struggle of the multitude is excited
neither by ambition nor covetousness; nor that
nicer torment, a morbid love of approbation,
which racks the sensitive genius; nor by the de-
lirium of an entrancing affection, nor by the ty-
ranny of grosser passion ;-but the common aim
of the majority in their daily toil, is rather for
means to sustain a bare and comfortless existence.
The weariness of the scarcely successful effort is
visible in almost every face. The vast increase
of heart and nervous diseases arises from the dis-
tracting excitement and stretch of mind which
now prevails throughout society, especially in
large cities, where great competition exists, and
where an uncertain commerce furnishes a precari-
ous support, and wealth and pride too often take
mean advantages of laborious poverty.
The votaries of pleasure are scarcely more ex-
ON HEALTH. 267
posed to the causes of mental disquietude than
the devotees of Mammon, and both alike waste
the energies of life in excitement, and alike
suffer the penalty of breaking those laws which
naturally regulate the uses both of mind and
body. The gambling spirit as constantly haunts
the exchange and corn market as the play-table;
and, by perplexing and distracting the mind, soon
saps the basis of health and anticipates old age.
Hence, in large commercial towns, we often wit-
ness even in persons who have barely reached the
middle period of life, the haggard face, sunken
eye, hoary hair, and feeble gait, which properly
belong to "wearied eld." Nor can the results
be surprising to those who reflect that anxiety is
but a chronic kind of fear; a sort of intermittent
fever or ague, which as manifestly disorders the
circulation and secretions as that which arises
from the poisonous malaria of the marshes, and
which is scarcely more deadly than that of the
market, in these days of desperate speculation
and grasping monopoly.
As Syrach says, " Sorrow also killeth many peo-
ple, and melancholy consnmeth marrow and bone.''
We have all heard of those who have become
" Grey haired with anguish in a single night."
But that is but a small part of the bodily evidence
of mental agony.
Grief has a very marked influence over the cir-
N2
268 EFFECTS 01' THE PASSIONS
culation ; probably by its direct action on the
heart, which may be so violently affected as really
to break, not metaphorically but physically. Pro-
longed distress of mind invariably produces a
great preponderance of the venous over the arte-
rial blood; hence there arises a general feebleness.
We are assured, on the testimony of their medical
attendants, that convicts frequently die of broken
hearts, and it requires more than ordinary care
and skill to restore them to any degree of health,
if once attacked by illness ; as the absence of
hope, especially among those transported for life,
causes them to sink rapidly, whatever be the dis-
ease. They seldom recover, or, if partially re-
stored, it is only to relapse from the slightest .
circumstances, and such as would not in the least
affect persons enjoying liberty and hope.
Strong emotion often produces the germ of
disease, which for a long time may not become
..
apparent. The majority of what are called ner-
vous diseases are probably of this class. Some
grief, like a thorn at the heart, as Hippocrates
says, by its secret and incessant irritation, gra-
dually wears out the vital energy. Some vulture
preys upon almost every heart, and it needs not
the pride and ambition of a Napoleon, fastened
to the lonely rock, to feel its gnawings, for dis-
appointment as keenly follows every intense and
absorbing passion.
ON HEALTH. 269
Every part of the body testifies to the potency
of emotions over the organism of life, though
the physiologist may not always detect their effects
in visible lesions or alterations. The first causes,
or earliest physical impressions of disorder, are
indeed beyond the ken of the dissector. In vain
he searches into minute anatomy for the cause of
functional derangement; it must be sought among
agents which he cannot handle. An idea has
frequently force enough to prostrate the strongest
man in a moment. A word has blasted all his
dearest, fondest, most habitual hopes. His only
child has died-the partner of his life is snatched
away;-he has but heard it; nothing has touched
· his body, but the "iron has entered his soul."
He reels-he trembles-some demon grasps his
brain-sleep is gone-he dares not look at the
light.-A dull pain and a heavy cloud fix them-
selves over his eyes, and if the efforts of nature
and art are unavailing, or if the balmy spirit of
religion breathe not healing through his soul and
speedily bind up the broken heart, some fatal
maiady of the brain more or less rapidly ensues,
and the man of energy and affection becomes an
outcast from society till death releases his spirit.
Next to the brain the stomach suffers from
continued mental distress. The appetite fails;
digestion is suspended ; atrophy succeeds, and
270 EFFECTS OF THE PASSIONS
perhaps some nerve -ache racks the sufferer.
Sometimes pulmonary consumption, or disease
of the heart, the liver, or the bowels is induced.
The secretions are of course proportionally af-
fected. Thus the milk of a nurse is often entirely
suppressed by mental disquietude. Hence a ner-
vous excitable woman is hardly fit to suckle her
own children ; for the fluid that should nourish
her infant undergoes so many changes, from the
mother's mental variations, as greatly to distress
the child and perhaps even to destroy it. Ninety-
eight out of a hundred deaths from convulsions
are of children, thus proving them to be especially
liable to this disorder ; and as the majority die in
early infancy, it is .not unlikely that the state of ·
the mother's mind may be the secret cause of
this unnatural mortality.
Under mental depression the nervous energy
becomes exhausted, the conservative power of
nature is wanting, and the body is rendered
especially obnoxious to external influences.
Captain Ross, in the narrative of his arctic
voyage, particularly alludes to the circumstance
of mental depression increasing susceptibility to
cold. The disastrous retreat from Moscow also
affords a striking and extensive instance. This
kind of susceptibility to " the skyey influences"
is most marked, but it equally exists in other
ON HEALTH, 271
forms; thus those who are depressed by any cause
are most likely to take contagious diseases.
Now look at him who is emphatically the miser:
that is the wretch. He seems as if all his affec-
tions had been congealed by a dip in Lethe, as
Dr. M. Good observes. Yet some demon of
anxiety, some cunning fiend, sits like a night-
mare on his bosom and will not let him sleep,
while whispering in his ear of robberies and of
destitution. No cordial cheers-no wealth makes
him comfortable-he grows thinner and thinner
-his limbs totter and his nerves ache. Even if
the charitable, whom he cheats, consent to feed
him, though in the home of plenty, he cannot
gather strength ; his soul starves him. This poor
pitiable being has been the subject of sarcasm
from age to age; but many who laugh and point
the finger at him are doubtless his descendants,
for they bear a strong family likeness in their
features, even to him of whom Valerius Maximus
relates, that he took advantage of a famine to
sell a mouse for two hundred pence, and then
died famished with the money in his pock.et.
Duty to our neighbour, our country, and our
God, requires us to be diligent in business and
fervent in spirit. With a right motive we shall
find our utmost efforts to be healthy and happy ;
but are there not many, however, who ask not
with a mockery of prayer for their daily bread,
272 EFFECTS OF THE PASSIONS, ETC.
until they have plotted some scheme upon their
beds by which they may file a fortune from the
wages of industry, or cheat their less crafty
brethren of some part of their due portion ? How
can these be healthy? Perhaps it is possible
that such contrivers may be rubicund in their
success, but it is more likely that the money-
mania will at last absorb all the cheering springs
of kindly sympathy, and leave them weak and
weary in the dry desert of their selfishness,-
their whole being a disease. .
This is a common termination of a vicious
course, whatever form of selfishness the vice
assume; for vice is always selfish, and therefore
apt to be increasingly anxious and wretched, till
habit dries the heart up in despair.
CHAPTER IX.
SYMPATHY.
SYMPATHY is the natural check which the
Almighty puts upon uncharitable self. In spite
of themselves there are few who have not felt
compassion for others. This affords a beautiful
proof both of the beneficence of our Maker and of
the power of mind over the body.
Pity, like love, imparts a sedate tenderness to
the carriage, and if it cannot be relieved the face
becomes pale and wan, the appetite fails, and the
slumber is invaded with frightful dreams, and
thus a broken heart from pity as from grief is no
fiction.
Mr. Quain detailed the following case of sym-
pathy at the Westminster Medical Society. A
gentleman who had constantly witnessed the
sufferings of a friend aftlicted with stricture of the
~esophagus, had so great an impression made on
his nervous system, that after some time he expe-
rienced a similar difficulty of swallowing, and
ultimately died of the spasmodic impediment pro-
duced by merely thinking of another's pain.
N3
274 SYMPATHY .
A curious and interesting effect of pathetic
feeling is the production of tears, which are never
generated but by sorrow or sympathy. There is
a particular nerve supplying that part which
causes the formation of tears, and it seems to he
naturally stimulated only by the suffering of the
mind. It is commonly observed that deep grief
is apt to be dangerous if the brain be not relieved
by tears; in fact, it indicates that the blow has
been so·severe as to paralize that part of the nerv-
ous system which causes them to flow. Hence we
so often hear lamentations from the wounded
heart that it can obtain no relief from its over-
whelming sorrow, because the fountain of tears
seems dried up.
There is a form of sympathy which compels us
to imitate what we witness in others. This ten-
dency is greatly aggravated under certain circum-
stances, as when persons are secluded from the
domestic and social duties of life. Thus a French
medical practitioner of great merit relates, that,
in a convent of nuns, one of the fair inmates was
seized with a strange impulse to mew like a catJI
and soon the whole sisterhood followed her ex-
ample, and mewed regularly every day for hours
together. This diurnal caterwauling astounded
the neighbourhood, and did not cease to scandalize
more rational Christians, until the nuns were in-
formed that a company of soldiers were to sur-
SYMPATHY. 275
round the convent and to whip all the holy sister-
hood with rods till they promised to mew no more.
A remedy which would be equally serviceable in
many other mental epidemics.
Cardan relates that, in another nunnery, a
sister was impelled to bite her companions, and
this disposition also spread among the sisterhood ;
but instead of being confined to one nunnery, it
spread from cloister to cloister throughout the
whole of Europe. There is a kind of biting
mania, not confined to nunneries or to the fair
sex, and which may often be witnessed in almost
every coterie; it ia backbiting; a malignant sort
of insanity, which spreada worse than the plague,
and disorders alike the body and the mind, both
collectively and individually.
Morbid and imitative sympathy ia scarcely less
powerful among men than women, but it usually
takes a different form in the different sexes : a
good example has already been given in the case
of epileptic fits.
The dancing mania of the fourteenth century
infected men almost as readily as women. We
have but to witness a congregation of Jumpera at
their devotions, or even a mob of senseless parti-
zans at a stoutly contested election, to be con-
vinced that the contagion of sympathy finds the
presence of the lordly sex no barrier to its exten-
sion. The evils of this kind of contagion, in con-
276 SYMPATHY.
nexion with irrational enthusiasm, whether excited
by true religion or by delusive assumptions, are
of a nature to demand our most serious considera-
tion, because the interests of truth are often sacri-
ficed in consequence of confounding her accidental
with her constant effects. In 1800, a blaze of
apparently religious enthusiasm spread with great
velocity through many parts of the United States.
It began in a crowded congregation, who were
rendered peculiarly susceptible by extreme fatigue
and ignorance. After remaining in the same spot
day and night, instead of worshipping, they com-
menced crying, laughing, singing, and shouting
with every variety of convulsive contortion and
gesticulation. They continued to act from neces-
sity whatever character they had assumed from
choice, and the diseeBe extended in every direction
with vast rapidity; as an affected person fre-
quently communicated it to the greater part of
a crowd collected:hf: curiosity around him.
Children are more especially liable to this sort
of symyathy, of which instances must be familiar
to every reader. The fact, however, is of vast im-
portance in connexion with the training ofchildren,
as a single evil example may counteract all our
teaching. The imitative propensity is frequently
exhibited in the diseases of children. A writer in
the British and Foreign Medical Review states
that he was consulted respecting a child who,
SYMPATHY. 277
when spoken to, instead of answering always re-
peated what was said. Degrees of this disease
are very common. The same writer mentions a
case, elsewhere published, in which an adult had
from infancy irresistibly imitated all the muscular
movements of those about him. When this dot-
terel-like propensity was forcibly restrained he
complained that his heart and brain were vexed.
It is this imitative tendency which favors the
rapid propagation of fanatic outrage, whether
political or religious, whether of Jumpers or of
Jansenists. But happily the susceptibility of
those who so readily submit to outward impres-
sions, and yield their souls to the government of
transitory impulses instead of abiding principles,
f~nishes in itself a check to their extravagance,
since some new form of such folly is ever pre-
senting itself, and their nervous systems are ever
open to fresh sympathies ; so that succeeding
excitements destroy each other, and error, always
imitating and never self-possessed, assumes as
many shapes as the father of lies himself,-" every
thing by turns but nothing long." Truth alone
is qualified to settle, compose, and establish the
form of society, and to hold as well as to obtain
universal dominion over the minds and bodies of
mankind. We are naturally organized in sym-
pathy rather with the holy than the evil ; as we
see that children, not infected by bad example,
278 SYMPATHY.
always love the good and beautiful. We may
therefore believe that when society shall be more
imbued with the practical spirit of truth, each
succeeding generation shall sympathetically, as
well as from conviction, exhibit more perfectly the
beauties of individual and social obedience to
divine law, which is the proper basis of education,
and requires all the superstructure to be con-
formed to its outline. Instruction in all know-
ledge and action will be succeuful only in pro-
portion as rule and example are divested of the
disguises with which men have concealed Truth,
the most persuasive and engaging of all teachers,
because really the sole mistress of our constitu-
tional sympathies.
We are governed by appearances, and we seem
intuitively to act upon this principle; and, with-
out intending it, we express the pleasure we feel
and desire to convey by meeting our friend with
a constant smile. The outward signs of passion
and emotion, which are so wonderfully expressed
in every attitude and feature, constitute the lan-
guage of the soul, the bond of interest and union
between mind and mind. Men are qualified to
influence others just in proportion as they are
gifted with the power of feeling lofty emotions
and of expressing them with anatomical precision,
and appropriate compass of face, of voice, and of
action. Hence the success of the actor's, or
SYMPATHY, 279
the orator's art depends on the facility with which
his nerves and muscles assume a truthfulness of
expression in the embodiment of feeling, which in-
deed can never be fully and satisfactorily accom-
plished without an actual participation in some
degree of the passion represented ; for the effort
to imitate will every now and then be manifest
where the feelin~ does not somewhat animate the
gesture and expression. The best actors, therefore,
are those that are least like actors, and .it is a
fact that such as have been most successful on the
stage have often been nearly unconscious of act-
ing, in their realizing conception of the scene in
which they placed themselves and the characters
they have assumed. Thus real tears are not un-
common with a good tragedian, nor is hearty
laughter with a comic actor. Preachers might
here learn a useful lesson. It is in vain for a man
to endeavour to persuade others till he has per-
suaded himself. He cannot convince his audience
that he is influenced by emotion unless they see
it ; which they cannot while he is merely endea-
vouring to imitate the action that belongs to
emotion, instead of feeling what he speaks. Real
hypocrites, are really poor orators, and they are
always ready to suspect more successful per-
suaders of more art than themselves, whereas they
have only more nature active within them. The
280 SYHPATBY.
unfeeling preacher egregionsly fails, and so does
he, however feeling, who imitates others instead
of expressing himself. If, however, he snitably
contemplate the subject or passion that he would
describe, and make an effort to regard it sted-
fastly, be will at length be moved by it as he
would by a living example of the passion or sub-
ject before his face ; for he canno~ fix his attention
sufficiently on a subject not interesting to him.
His own sympathies will thus be roused, and he
will also rouse others almost to the extent of his
own enthusiasm, if his power of language corres-
pond with his feeling, which it generally will. This
want of actual emotion in the speaker canses the
sublimest truths and the most thrilling relations
of great facts to fall lifelessly from the lips, so
that the sentences uttered come forth like wreaths
of sleepy mist instead of living forms of light.
Those who are most commanding among orators
do not appear to be so much addressing their
audience as to be contemplating and expressing
some subject of vast interest to themselves, and
which inspires their very souls and features with
language and significance, like a Pythoness. It
is this kind of inspiration with which an audience
is most enthralled, as those can testify who have
heard such men as Robert Hall. But the force
and fervour of the possessing influence must be
SYMPATHY. 281
visible in the countenance, as well as heard in the
intonations of the voice. The kindling eye, es-
pecially, must speak.
The features, when excited, are so nicely ex-
pressive of the variations in mental emotion, that
by lookiQg on them we at once read the state of
the mind in which the individual appears before
us, unless indeed he artfully conceal himself, but
even then constraint will be visible.
The skill of the painter is most highly evinced
by his seizing the evanescent play of feeling,
which, though unstable as a ray of light upon
the trembling water, yet in a moment reveals the
emotion of the soul ; and it is the exquisite ac-
cordancy between this index and the intelligence
that moves it, which characterizes the man of
eloquent features, and imparts, with the addition
of appropriate language and utterance, an almost
supernatural fascination to the gifted orator. Even
without the auxiliaries of living energy, tone,
and language, the actions of the muscles of the
face and eyes are so marvellously fashioned to
respond to the touch of passion on their nerves,
and so completely calculated to excite our sym-
pathy, that the features even of a dead man may
be automatically played upon by galvanism, so
that spectators shall feel their sensibilities uncon-
trollably disturbed. Dr. Ure relates an instance
in which rage, horror, despair, anguish, and
SYHPATRY,
ghastly smiles united their hideous expression in
the face of a murderer lately executed, in a man-
ner surpassing the wildest representations of a
Fuseli or a Kean. So powerful was the effect
that several of the spectators were forced to leave
the room from terror, and one gentleman fainted.
The missionary martyr, Williams, gives a good
example of the power of acting in exciting sym-
pathy. During the launching of a ship by the
natives of Eimeo, an old warrior stood on a little
eminence to animate the men at the ropes. "His
action was most inspiring. There seemed not a
fibre of his frame which he did not exert ; and
merely from looking at him, I felt as though I
was in the very act of pulling."
Young children are strongly affected by facial
expression, and they learn the features of pas-
sion long before they learn any other part of its
language. Their imitative faculties are so active
and their sympathies so acute, that they uncon-
sciously assume the expression of face whi9h they
are accustomed to see and feel. Hence the im-
portance that children be habituated to kindli-
ness, beauty and intellect in those with whom
they are domesticated. Even their playthings
and pictures should be free from depraved mean-
ing and violent expression, if we wish them to
be lovely; and all the hideous, grotesque, and
ludicrous portraiture, which now vulgarize the
SYMPATHY. 283
public mind, should be excluded from the nursery.
The gothic and superstitious condition of mind
will return with the prevalence of pictorial de-
formities, and the demand for the unnatural will
increase with the continuance of degraded art;
for which deforming epidemic there can be no re-
medy, but in familiarizing the common mind with
nobler objects.
CHAPTER X.
SOLITUDE.
IT is by sympathy with each other that minds
become either corrupted or improved; and how-
ever advantageous occasional solitude may be for
the purpose of familiarizing the mind with its
own actings, and however necessary it may be for
the arrest of pernicious associations, still it is not
by solitude, but by mind acting on mind, through
the living medium of sight, sound, and touch, that
erroneous humanity is led to right thinking.
Where shall it find a pathway out of the mysteri-
ous desert of its temptations, while left alone or
without a companion, except the tempter? It was
in the separation of those whom God had joined
together that the serpent beguiler was first able
to triumph; and when a human being is alone
that evil spirit still haunts him with the likeliest
hope of conforming the soul to his own purposes.
Without suitable response to his social desires,
the mind of fallen man will conjure up a thou-
sand beings to converse with its thoughts, and to
give sentiment and language even to inanimate
objects. All the world is alive to man's imagina-
SOLITUDE. 285
tion. Hence the solitudes of the wilderness, where
the Indian wanders alone, are peopled by him
with spirits; and hence, too, haunted places
abound in the traditions of thinly populated dis-
tricts, and among those people whose business
requires them to pass much time in solitary walks
and watchings among hills and vallies, where no
sign of human association breaks the monotony of
speechless existence. The Indian saying is true,
" Fast in the wilderness and dream of spirits."
This superstitious tendency is equally manifested,
whatever the nature of the solitude, that is, if the
mind be developed, and has not previously been
imbued with truth and holiness. The madden-
ing terrors of young criminals who are confined
to solitary cells, is thus to be explained.
Probably the solitude of stone walls is the most
terrible of desolations; for living nature, however
wild, will suggest some thought of a benevolent
and protecting spirit. But when vice is doomed
to the dungeon, to hear no voice save that of a
guilty conscience, and to see no smile but the
ghastly smile of despair, what kind of superstition
can there enter but that which makes visible the
darkness of hell and prompts the madman to seek
refuge from his tormentors in self-murder. An
author, of no common power and sagacity, tells
us that, when at New York, he visited the prison
where they carry out the solitary system, and
286 SOLI'J,'UDE.
held the following brief and significant convena-
tion with the turnkey.
" Pray why do they call this place the tombs ?"
" Well, it's the cant name.
"I know it is. Why?"
" Some suicides happened here when it was
first built. I expect it come about from that."
I saw just now that the man's clothes were
scattered about the floor of his cell. " Dont you
oblige prisoners to be orderly and put such things
away?" "Where should they put 'em?" "Not
on the ground, surely : what do you say to hang-
ing them up?"
He stops and looks round to emphasize the
answer : " Why I say that's just it. When they
had hooks they would hang themselves, so they
are taken out of every cell and there's only the
marks left where they used to be!"
The isolation of a human spirit is worse than
death, for the author of humanity has constituted
it for intercourse, and every where in nature has
provided it with scope and occasion to receive and
communicate impulses of affection and of thought.
Even iu hell there is companionship. Evil spirits
are attracted to each other, and are permitted to
know so much of mercy as to wander even in
legions together. They associate in their misery
and their mischief, but man has invented a new
mode of punishment and destruction, by imprison-
•
SOLITUDE, 287
ing his wayward and ignorant brother in a tomb :
" a breathing man gifted with voice and hearing
is built up in a silent solitary sepulchre of stone,"
as if to bury his very soul ; since there the pulse
of another heart may not beat, and there the
lonely spirit, thus cut off from the enjoyment of
its own faculties, is tormented to madness by the
clash of thoughts and passions without aim or
object. The improvement of even a wise man
without any other fellowship than his own reflec-
tion is impossible. He may arrange his know-
ledge and devise new schemes, but his heart is
never the better, unless busied for the benefit of
others, or, talking as it were with angels, he
learns of them, or at least is roused by fellowship
with feelings that neither originate nor terminate
in self. If then the man accustomed to secluded
meditation gains no moral progress or advance-
ment but in the interchange of mind with mind,
are we to expect the miserable being, who perhaps
by his very criminalty has demonstrated that he
is so uncontrollably excited by association, so
mastered by his passions that his own safety is of
small moment in comparison with the pleasure of
pleasing his associates,-are we to expect such a
being to be conducted into right thinking, feel-
ing, and acting, without another mind to approve,
direct, and encourage him in his aspirations after
a higher place in the scale of moral existence 7
288 SOLITUDE.
What is needed in such a caae is surely a friend,
-one with a heart and soul, capable of appreci-
ating the value of a redeemed and immortal spirit,
of proving a true Christian devotedness to the
service of a sinful man, and of loving him. in
hope of what he may be hereafter. Thus will he
be drawn, if at all, by the mighty gentleness of
heaven's charity, to follow in sympathy, love, and
veneration, from the depths of vicious debasement
even to the gates of heaven, and into its very
glory. It is kindness that wins the heart. Hence
the apostolic exhortation-" Be followers of God,
as dear children." Captain Sir W. E. Parry,
commenting on these words, observes, " there is
perhaps nothing even in the whole compass of
Scripture more calculated to awaken contrition in
the hardest heart than the Parable of the Prodigal
Son. I knew a convict in New South Wales in
whom there appeared no symptom of repentance,
in other respects, but who could never hear a ser-
mon or comment on this parable without bursting
into an agony of tears, which I witnessed on
several occasions. Truly he who spoke ·it knew
what was in man."
Rational retirement is impossible to the irreli-
gious mind. Such a mind perceives not the
proper relation of any thing, and dares not dwell
alone for the purpose of contemplation; for all it
can feel in solitude is the necessity of keeping up
SOLITUDE. 289
courage by some effort, like a school-boy at night
among the tombs. The spontaneous phantasma-
goria of the vigilant and guilty spirit rise like un-
accountable goblins, unless such a one is busy
with his senses. Solitude is therefore terror and
madness to the uninformed ; but let a man be
suitably instructed and furnished with the proper
means of happy mental occupation, and then
occasional seclusion will soothe and elevate his
spirit. Retirement from the world is indeed the
way to heaven, and it is when the soul is alone in
the agony of its heavy necessities that God and
the Son of God visit it with salvation. The sepa-
ration of man from all his sympathies is death ;
and solitude is fit for man only when man is fit
for fellowship with God. But yet the Almighty
has instituted separation in the dying hour, only
to conduct the retiring and confiding spirit to the
socialties of a sublimer life.
The deadening influence of silent confinement
is of course most rapidly destructive to the powers
of both mind and body in youth, at which period
nature is active with no other purpose but plea-
sure and development. These being suddenly
arrested, the mental faculties, as well as the limbs,
become useless. If not speedily emancipated, the
child thus unnaturally treated will soon be found
both an idiot and a cripple. Such a process is
like reducing an expanded human being to the
0
290 SOLITUDE.
state of Caspar Hauser, who being concealed from
his infancy in a small cellar, there grew to the
stature of a yonng man, with less ofbodily activity
and less of appearance of mind than a child at ita
mother's breast. " The life of his soul could be
compared only to the life of an oyater, which,.
adhering to ita rock, is sensible of nothing but
the absorption of its food, and perceive• only the
eternal uniform dashing of the waves, and in ita
narrow shell finds no room even for the most eon-
fined idea of a world without it, still less of any
thing above the earth and above all worlds." Yet
this interesting youth, nnder the benevolent but
very defective teaching of kindly associations,
afterwards manifested such exquisite delicacy of
intellect, conjoined with such pure and beautiful
blendings of affection, that those who could best
read the character of his soul most tenderly loved
him.
Children become idiots in continued solitary
confinement, but adults more frequently become
either suicides or madmen; because in the former
there is the absence of guilty habit, but the will
in the latter had been long perverted and bent
upon the attainment of some specific object, in
which they promised themselves especial pleasure.
Even self-amendment and escape from the misery
of their guilty course had often been hoped for as
an.end with many of the worst inmatea of our
SOLITUDE. 291
prisons; when, therefore, such wretched men are
deprived of the most distant expectation of being
in any way respected or beloved, it is no wonder
they become insane.
Man, in constant banishment from fellowship,
is almost beyond the reach of hope, and in
proportion as he is without hope, he is without
the natural stimulus and inducement to self-cor-
rection. A human.being so situated is already in
the position of a melancholy madman. The one is
deprived of all hope of enjoyment by disease, the
other by his fellow-man; and in both cases, if the
cause continue, the end can only be entire loss of
intellect or else suicide ; for the brain and nerves
are robbed of their proper stimuli and the body be-
comes the pregnant source of agonizing sensations.
It is by activity that our faculties are preserved
as well as developed, and their proper action is
always agreeable. Life, in fact, is not properly
maintained unless in some measure pleasurable.
A feeling of unfitness for life always seizes the
heart that is robbed- of hope, and whenever des-
pair gets possession, the soul desires death and
struggles for oblivion. There can be no sponta-
neous remedy in our disordered nature for the
terrors of guilt, but if we possess a true faith des-
pair appears imp088ible. Belief in God, as He is,
not according to this mode or that, but simply as
our God for ever, is the only cure for every
thorough heart trouble. o 2
•
CHAPTER XI.
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PASSIONS.
WE cannot donbt that, as the life of this flesh
hangs on a breath, so the power of controlling
thought hangs on some delicate arrangement of
atoms, with which the soul is so connected as to
move it and to be moved by it. The difference
between the sublimest philosopher and the most
grovelling idiot, in regard to the exhibition and
enjoyment of intellect, is, as far as we can dis-
cover, but the difference in their respective or-
ganization, and its state of health. This humbling
view ought to cure us of intellectual conceit ; for
who dares despise his brother's understanding;
when he reflects that the Divine mind will here-
after judge us not for lack of power but for its
abuse; not according to what we have not, but
according to what we have; and will distribute
new endowments as each may have employed the
capacity he held. The decisive crisis is but a result.
How silly then is that common adulation of talent
which regards not moral principle, and values the
play of wit more than a Godlike will, although
•
GOVERNMENT OP THE PASSIONS. 293.
this is indeed the only true dignity of our nature.
What mere cant of bigotry and carping criticism
must that be which would alike depress all minds
to their own low, dull, flat, unprofitable level of
formality, as if the diversified workmanship of the
Infinite could all be trimmed into the same shape
by conceited man. As well may we endeavour to
reduce creation to .a monotony as to bring all
minds to perceive and act in the same manner.
The spirit of each must vary as much from all
others in power and intelligence, as the material
medium, through which it works, must differ from
all others in <lonstruction and circumstances.
The body is· only a convenient form which the
spirit uses, and we have the highest authority for
believing that many spirits may occupy and em-
ploy the same body. Nor can we discover any
thing in nature that renders it difficult to credit
this fact. Some persons with most nnphilosophi-
cal audacity have however denied its possibility,
but at least it behoves them first to prove that
they understand the mode of spiritual existence
and operation before they contradict the literal
force of the New Testament, from which we learn
that, if we use not our bodies according to divine
law they will be employed by other spirits to dis-
honour and destruction. But in no circumstances
in which the moral integrity of the soul can be
tried, does it necesaarily succumb to the seduc-
•
tione o( the body, :oor, with right knowledge and
reliance, to the penuasions orpenerae apirit..
''lrllo rap. 'tridliD .....- nils
~ -----..·-thmkiDc·"-~
:But how are our pusiona to be governed ex-
cept by a dominant principle or attachment to
110111e mighty truth, by which the will may be
rectified and nobler purpoee be subetituted for
inferior desire. Superior motivea are addreeaed
to ev~ understanding. Our Maker baa im-
planted detecting COUllcience, .elf-respect, and
IOCial aft'ectiona in every mind eleY&ted above the
physical curtailments of idiotism. The passions
then are the elements of our moral nature; they
cannot be destroyed without our own destruction.
The suspension of their influence is the sus-
pension of consciousness. It is only by the con-
sent ofour willa that they are excited into disorder,
and only by our obedience to the laws which our
conscience acknowledges are our passions brought
to act in harmony. They must be placed in their
proper relations to their objects before the per-
fection of their purpose can be demonstrated : and
as wisely might we say that disease and tempest
frustrate divine wisdom, as impugn the Almighty
because our moral being is liable to disturbance.
Disorder must yet glorify the God that called
light out of darkness. He will vindicate Himself
by teaching the sinful soul in felt weakneaa to
GOVEBNMENT OP THE PASSIONS. 295
depend on Omnipotence, and to derive motive,
encouragement and means·to rise above all merely
human affections, by submitting to the beauty
and attractiveness of divine example. It needs
only the euperintendence of a corrected under-
standing to preserve our passions in order, by
keeping them employed in a proper manner.
Even in a reformed madhouse we may learn that
occupation is the secret of enjoyment; for, how-
ever whimsical the delusion, or however impetuous
the passion, it may be diverted or innocently
gratified by one mind gaining the attention of
another. It is by partially yielding to the mis-
taken interests that absorb the disordered mind
that we persuade and acquire the power of con-
ducting it to right associations. It is by a
demonstrated concern for the well-being of others
that we secure their affections, and it is by con-
templating the ways of Providence towards our-
selves that we attain holier desires and a full
confidence in the hand that helps us.
A little reftection will show us that the e1f'ect of
one object of emotion can be removed only by the
mind being directed to another. Thus anger, the
fiercest of our passions, is often arrested by a
word, a look, or a thought, reminding us of some
tender and beloved association.
The greatest agony which the body can endure
is austained for the sake of those we love. Even
the lower animals furnish us with striking examples
296 GOVEBN.MEXT 01' THE PA8810N8.
of the mastery of affection over physical sntrering.
Addison, in the Spectator, relates a touching in-
stance. A skilful anatomist opened a bitch, and
as she lay in the most exquisite tortures, oft'ered.
her one of her young ones which she immediately
began to lick, and for a time seemed insensible of
her own pain : on its being removed, she kept her
eye fixed on it and commenced a wailing cry,
which seemed rather to proceed from the loss of
her young than a sense of her own torment. We
may well blush to contrast the cruelty of the man
with the affection of the dog.
We are all governed by what we love, and are
taught rather by what we witness in others than
by what we experience in ourselves J by what we
see rather than what we know ; and the manage-
ment of our moral feelings is successful according
to the demand upon our sympathies. The best
moral education is familiarity with generous affec-
tions at work, and with the wisdom of law exem-
•
plified in society, endeavouring to prevent evil,
and proving that God cannot endure that one of
his rational creatures should harm another.
By contemplating in others the loveliness ofself-
government, for unselfish purposes, we find our
wishes correspond with theirs, and we love them
just in proportion as we understand our true in-
terest and believe in the purity of motive. This
is the divine method of teaching-" The life is
the light of men."
CHAPTER XII.
THE HIGHEST TRIUMPH OF THE SOUL.
CONCLUSION.
THE triumph of man over pain and difficulty is
always achieved by fixing his desire upon the
attainment of some prize, and the strength of his
determination is proportioned to the value his
understanding puts upon the object at which he
aims. The highest motive that can inspire the
rational will is the approval of God ; being asso-
ciated as it is with the assurance ofHis perfection
and the bestowment of His favour. Hence we
find a man, whether savage or civilized, heathen
or Christian, ready to endure any suft':ring rather
than forego his reliance upon the being whom he
acknowledges as his God. The object of his
worship may be false as Juggernaut, or as true as
Jehovah, the conscientious votary is still faithful
unto death ; but vast indeed the difference in the
consolation and the reason of the faith ; as widely
separated as the persuasions of folly and terror
from the attractivene88 of perfect wisdom and love.
298 BIGB:ZST Tl&IUXPB OP TB:Z SOUL.
Yet it is moet interesting to reflect on the might
of man's will in resisting temptation and endur-
ing trial, in obedience to what he believes to be
the mandate of the divine mind. This submission
of his being to supreme will moet wonderfully
exhibits man's constitution. He was made to
obey God, and this power depends not on a refined
education, for the most·nntutored exhibit it as
heroically, if not so beautifully, as the most in-
formed. It has been said that it i:s easier to act
the martyr than to conquer one's temper; but
th~se achievements are alike difficult, and require
the same lofty conceptions of a higher imd holier
being, who has a right to demand our self-renun-
ciation from love to His perfections. We may
therefore include all sense of duty by which men
are governed in the idea of supreme right ; and if
we find men, as we do, willing to sacrifice them-
selves, we at once perceive that they possess a
power in \heir own wills to overcome every evil
disposition by constant obedience to God, their
chief good, and the author of their being. The
mind and body are by Him so proportioned, that
one can bear all that can be inflicted on the other,
and virtue can stand ita ground as long as life ; so
that a soul well-principled will be sooner separated
than subdued.*
The detail given by Catlin of the religious ritea
* See Rambler, No. 32.
HIGHEST TRIUMPH OP THE SOUL. 299
of the Mandan Indians, although presenting an
awful picture of the horrors of ignorance" and
superstition, yet exhibit also a strong illustration
ofhigh moral motive, sustaining and enabling the
mind to bear patiently the greatest sufferings of .
the body. He represents them as voluntarily
undergoing the most excruciating agonies, for the
purpose of proving their devotedness in the dedi·
cation of both body and soul to the Great Spirit.
After a long fast, extensive wounds are inflicted
in different parts of their bodies, into which
skewers of wood are inserted, by which they are
then suspended until the quiverings of the lascer·
ated muscles cease, and all struggle and tremor
are over; when, being apparently dead, or as they
term it in the keeping of the Great Spirit, they
are lowered to the ground, where they are allowed
to lie till that Spirit enables them to get up and
walk. Other horrid rites of an agonizing kind
are added, but this is enough to show,that these
deluded heroes and voluntary martyrs, with due
instruction and example, would have made fine
Christians; for they committed their souls to the
keeping of the Great Spirit, apparently with as
firm a confidence in his power, but alas I without
a knowledge of His love, as did Lambert, when
consuming in a slow fire by order of the bigoted
and cruel Henry, he cried in his torments and in
his death, " None but Christ, none but Christ;,
800 HIGHEST TJLIU.II.PH OP THB SOUL.
or as did Cranmer, when repenting of the weak-
ness that induced him to subscribe to papal doc-
trines, he held his hand unflinchingly in the
flames until entirely consumed, calling aloud,
"This hand has offended, this hand has offended !''
The history of martyrdom supplies a mnltitude
of instances which so convincingly demonstrate
the dominion of the sonl over the body, as to in-
duce a prevalent belief among those who consider
not the might of the human will, that martyrs
were generally sustained in their suffering by
direct miraculous interference. Nor can we
wonder at this notion, for a faith that triumphs
over death appears supernatural ; belonging not so
much to this life as to another, and indeed taking
possession of the soul to fix: its affections on a
nobler world to conduct it thither.
It may be imagined that excessive bodily tor-
ment would exhaust the nervous power and
terminate in delirium, thus accounting for the
raptures expressed on some of those occasions.
This may sometimes happen, especially when
the infliction is very gradual, and the brain has
been previously wearied by feverish anxieties ; for
our merciful Maker has so ordered our connexion
with the body, that when suffering becomes too
intense and too continued for the mastery of the
will, through the nervous structure, the attention
is drawn offfrom the bodily feeling by mental asso-
HIGHEST TRIUMPH OP THE SOUL. 301
ciations, and from sensible to spiritual impressions,
and delightful thoughts then generally take the
place of agony. :But this delirious ecstacy seems
very rarely to have happened with martyrs ; for
their exalted determination in general maintained
a testimony either in prayers or exhortations
against demoniac persecution, with clearness and
rational freedom till the very moment that death
sealed their evidence. That the mind retained its
integrity in the midst of flames until the moment
of decease, is shown by many facts, as in the in-
stances of Lambert and Cranmer above quoted.
Mr. Hawkes, also being entreated by his friend
to give them some token that the fire was not so
intolerable but that a man might keep his mind
quiet and patient, he assented; and, if so, he pro-
mised he would lift his hands above his head
before he died. An eye witness states that at the
stake he mildly addressed himself to the flames,
and when his speech was taken away, and his skin
drawn altogether, and his fingers consumed so
that all thought him dead, he, in remembrance of
his promise, suddenly lifted up his burning hands
and clapped them together three times as if in
great joy. James :Bainham, also having half his
arms and legs consumed, spake these words, "Ye
look for miracles I Here now ye may see one.
This fire is a bed of roses to me."
These witnesses for heaven knew what death is,
302 B181Dft t'&R"JIPR OP 'flO 80"CL.
but they DeYel' Celt it. 'Die Lord lA Jife clumged
torment into delight Cor them, awl coaftded the
fury of 8une into • potle air that wa&ed their
apirita to their kindred; and ere He eeot the
ebariot of salvation He had well a.ured them
that the aeparatioo ol 10ul and body ia only a
symbolic put ol death; but that to dwell wil-
lingly in the darkneas which the IIJDile of per-
fect love can never diasipate. ia death indeed.
This stmggling after unattainable 0~ this
fretting because we cannot trust 0111' faithful
Creator, this turmoil of aelfiah pusion,-thia ia
death. Reliance upon God for every ~ ia life.
The spirit, elevated and sustained by the diriDe
strength of a Christian's fai~ may walk abme
the turbulence of this world in a path of ligh~
brighter and calmer than that which the moon-
beam paves upon the waters, and which termi-
nates only in the pure and serene glory of eternal
heaYen.
We find then that man, as regards both mind
and body, is liable to disease from disturbance
originating in the moral nature. Hia passiona
are his bane, as well as his blessedness. Now
these tendencies to disorder, existing in his con-
stitutional emotions, are to be subdued only by
appeals to a power of self-control, to some con-
senting principle which perceives the reasonable-
ness of obedience to certain laws for the sake of
'HIGHEST TRIUMPH OP THE SOUL. 303
preserving the well-being of one's self in the
welfare of others. In short, an appeal to the
understanding ofthe individual·for his own benefit,
only as a part of a grand system of united in-
dividuals.
Conscience proves our personality, and indicates
that our nature is not a random result, but that
it may be improved or perverted in relation to a
future state; for if we have not, nor expect, an-
other state of being, what is the consequence
of this life? Why should we regard anything
but our own convenience or enjoyment ? What
then is the value of that word which whispers in-
wardly-" Tlwu shalt love thy God with all thy
soul, and thy neighbour as thyself?
The arguments of materialists go to establish
the notion that health of mind depends on health
of body; but the truth seems to be, that what con-
tributes to the one contributes also to the other ;
for neither can be preserved without obedience to
moral as well as physical ordinances. Indeed, it
may not be impossible to prove that perfect obe-
dience to moral law would ensure the complete
welfare of human nature ; and the more we study
the operation of our passions on the body, the
more we discover of evidence that health of soul
is health to the body also; at least we cannot fail
to discern that a holy will is the best regulator of
804 HIGHEST TBIUKPH OP THE SOUL.
desire and of action, and the only warrant of our
qualification for an inheritance in light.
The one conclusion of all research on this, as
on every other subject, is inevitable. There is cer-
tainly some end worthy of man's creation and
suited to his spirit, in his advancing struggle after
knowledge and goodness, which the economy of
earthly existence does not furnish. The purpose
of being is not here explained; intelligent desire
is not satisfied; the sunshine of truth is only re-
flected on earth; there is no perfect day to the
soul; light direct from its source falls not on the
sight; we must imagine the delights of which we
are capable but which we cannot here realize; we
must live abstractedly if we would live reasonably
in holy intimacy with Divine and human science ;
we must look forward into futurity for the meaning
of the past. The present adds but a stone to the
grand erection, the design of which is to occupy
our contemplation everlastingly; for each indivi-
dual mind, in its memory and experience, is
adding material to material, in an order and for
an end at present unknown to itself, but yet mani-
festly according to the plan of a mind that cannot
be disappointed.
The very body, which in health so beautifully
obeys us, while the soul seeks only perishing enjoy-
ment, becomes an impediment to ournobler aspira-
HIGHEST TRIUMPH OP THE SOUL. 305
tions; and when the spirit awakes to the conscious-
ness of its infinite capacity, its very efforts to be
free tend to burst the, bonds of the body, which
becomes more and more irksome as the mind
grows mature; at length the ruinous condition of
the earthly tabernacle strengthens the desire for
one that is heavenly and eternal; and when the
body obeys not, then the attentive believing spirit
begins to enjoy true liberty in acquaintance with
God's purpose to his creature ; and already catch-
ing a gleam of glory from beyond the grave, the
regenerated man passes through death, and finds
it only one step to enter for ever through that
gatewjly into satisfying and endless life.
THE END.
Walton ond ~fitchell, Printua, 24, Wardunr·atreet.
