{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__smith___lectures_on_clairmativeness.pdf","mytitle":"Lectures On Clairmativeness","mylang":"de"}
L E C T U R E S
ON
CLAIRMATIVENESS:
HUMAN MAGNETISM.
X WITH
\ • c,
A N A P P E N D I X .
BY REV. GIBSON SMITH.
NE W- YORK:
PRINTED BY SEARING & PRALL.
I
1S 45.
CONTENTS.
LECTURE I.—The bearings of Magnetism as a Science—
The Brain, its physical and magnetic power—The struc­
ture of the muscular and sympathetic Nerves, their office,
functions, &,c.™The production of Mind, and the Duality
of M i n d . ........................................................................... Page 5
LECTURE II.—Further illustration of the Duality of Mind,
—The connexion of the Brain with the magnetic and
electric Fluids—The existence of Animal Magnetism, or
heat, in the sympathetic Nerves, which causes all invo­
luntary motion and sensation in the system—and electri­
city is the agent by which all voluntary motion is produ­
ced, &c................................................. . . . 17 to 24
SECTION III— The production of Animal Magnetism and
Electricity, &c.~Astronomical observations and philoso-
phical remarks—Electricity and Magnetism keep the pla­
nets in their spheres, and cause them to revolve round
the sun—The Clairvoyant, by request, visits Saturn, de­
scribes its general appearance, its climate, inhabitants,
&c__accounts for the rings around Saturn upon philoso-
cal principles hitherto never thought of, as well as other
new, important, and highly interesting information for
the inquirers after truths in science. . . . . 25 to 31
SECTION IV. — Treats further upon Animal Magnetism,
Clairmativeness, and Clairvoyance—many highly impor­
tant questions discussed and satisfactorily explained. . 32 to 37
APPENDIX.—Testimonials as to the character, learning, and
capabilities of Mr. Jackson Davis, the celebrated Clair­
voyant at Poughkkeepsie, and statements of some of his
numerous and wonderful experiments and disclosures
in science; his ability to examine individual systems, to
discover disease, its cause, and its remedy ; his visits (by
request) to distant places (where he has never been in
person) in search of individuals and things designated by
the inquirer; the accurate information he gives in such
cases, &c. &c...................................................................37 to 40
O" The reader will be better prepared for the Lectures, by first reading
the Introduction and Appendix in connexion, as they inform him what cre­
dit is due to Mr. Jackson, the Clairvoyant, for the information and discove­
ries communicated throughout the series.
L E C T U R E S
ON
CLAIRMATIYEIESS:
OR,
HUMAN MAGNETISM.
WITH
AN A P P E N D I X .
BY RE Y. GIBSON SMITH.
N E W - Y O R K :
PRINTED BY SEARING & PRALL.
1S 4 5 .
[CP All the Mysteries of HUMAN MAGNETISM
and CLAIRVOYANCE explained by the celebrated
J ackson Davis of Poughkeepsie.
E n tered , according to Act of Congress, in the Year of our Lord 1815, by
G I B S O N S M I T H ,
in the Clerk’s Office of the United States’ District Court of the Southern
District of the State of New-York.
TO THE R E A D E R .
T h e Author of this little Work would say, to those into whose hands
soever it may fall, that he has consented to the task of presenting it to the
public, partly from his own conviction of its truth and importance, and part­
ly from the repeated and urgent solicitations which he has received from
almost every part of the Union.
Mr. J. D a v is, the Clairvoyant from whom these facts have been receiv­
ed, is a young man eighteen years of age; his moral character is irre­
proachable ; he is unlearned, five mouths having been the extent of his
schooling. He has worked at his trade in this village, Poughkeepsie, for
the last six years, with the exception of about eighteen months, during
which time he has been engaged in the subject of Mesmerism and Clair­
voyance. As a Clairvoyant subject, he has probably never been surpassed
or equalled. Iiis vision and knowledge, when in the transic state, seem
perfect and unlimited ; and in reference to these matters, I can only ask a
candid public to read and judge for themselves. For a further representa­
tion of the astonishing powers of the Clairvoyant, the reader is referred to
the Appendix to this work.
When so much has been said—and, as I suppose, W
'ell said—on the sub­
ject of Animal Magnetism and Clairvoyance, it is a matter quite foreign to
me, and, perhaps, to my calling, to attempt, on my part, and from my own
investigations, to add any thing that might essentially and substantially aid
the general cause. But as it has fallen to nty lot to witness some of the
most astonishing experiments of young Davis, the Clairvoyant, and listen
to the clear and forcible expositions which he has given of the subject, I
feel it iny duty to communicate these facts to the world. It is not the volu­
minous character of this work that is designed or expected to commend it
to the attention of the public ; but, it is its original and interesting charac­
ter, added to the clearness and perspicuity of its expositions—its condensed
form, and the manifest truthfulness of its every feature. And I would here
state, what will doubtless be evident to every competent judge, that the
texts furnished in this small work, are subject-matter sufficient for a large
volume,—in fact, for a series of volumes ; but I have studied to present the
simple naked texts to the scholar, the man of genius and science, not only
that he may make his own comments and draw7his own inferences, hut also
that the work may be available to all; and that every mind interested in
the investigation and cultivation of the human powers may be furnished
IV INTRODUCTION.
with this pamphlet—this embodiment of original facts as a guide or aid to
his reflections on some of the most important interests to man, and the sub-
limest laws of the universe. And I say most emphatically, that it is the
point, the originality, the intrinsic value, and self-evident truthfulness of
this work, on which I rely as its highest and most substantial recommen­
dation.
The facts presented on Astronomy, the force of which, I doubt not, will
be readily perceived by every scholar, are most invaluable. They might
have been carried to a much greater length ; but I have chosen, as I have
before said, to submit the more text or principle to the investigation of the
learned and candid.
The explanation here given of the cause of motion, and especially the
explanation of the laws bywhich the motions of all the heavenly bodies are
produced, will be adopted by the learned ; for it cannot be resisted, what­
ever innovations it may make upon existing systems, as the t r u t h , on this
transcendently sublime subject.
The Lectures which follow are almost word for word as I have received
them from the Clairvoyant I have in some instances aided in the arrange­
ment, and for illustration, have also inserted a few quotations from eminent
Authors. As for instance, in the second Lecture, I have made a quotation
from “ Townsend’s Facts on Mesmerism.” Of the first Lecture, I would
particularly state, that it is almost precisely, both in word and arrangement,
as given by the Clairvoyant. Of the fourth and last Lecture, I have to re­
mark, that it is ev ery w ord as given by the Clairvoyant; and I would also
say, that he charged me most decidedly and repeatedly not to alter a word,
or deviate at all from the course which he arranged and determined.
1 have now fully stated the manner in which these facts have been ob­
tained, and would add, that my manuscript has been constantly under the
view and supervision of the Clairvoyant during the entire progress; and
that in every stage of our advancement, after my most careful efforts in ar-
ranging and penning the texts and statements of our preceding interview,
he would tell me at our following meeting, precisely the extent to which I
had advanced, and the degree of accuracy that had attended my efforts,—
and all this even when my manuscript remained in my study. Thus, when
through misapprehension or accident, I have penned any thing materially
wrong, the matter has been set right by the Clairvoyant, and I have duly
made the correction.
In conclusion, 1 would say, I pretend not to infallibility in my decisions ;
but still, having read the standard works on the subject, I have no hesita­
tion in saying, that I doubt not, that the theory given in this work, is a vein
of vital truth which has been reached by no other Author.
P oughkeepsie, N. Y.
G. SMITH.
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS,
LECTURE FIRST.
I am aware that many learned and ingenious theories have been
presented to the public on the subject of Human Magnetism; but
these theories have not unfolded the great mystery, though they have,
it must be acknowledged, thrown much light upon the science. This
science, for a science it most assuredly is, claims the serious attention of
all. Magnetism has long been known, but most bitterly opposed and
ridiculed. I said it had long been known ;—no doubt its existence
can be traced back for four thousand years, and from that time through
all succeeding centuries, it has existed under various names, in myste­
rious and obscure positions, until, finally, it was revived by Mesmer.
He having the power, concealed it from the people, and clothed it in
the same mystery, which caused the opinion to prevail that it was all
the effect of Satanic agency. The same opinion is still entertained by
the more ignorant and uninformed classes of community. But these
impressions, I trust, will not last much longer; for the subject is now
receiving the attention of the most learned and scientific men; and
they can appreciate well its blessings, and the relief it affords to suffer­
ing humanity.
The science, however, is still clothed in mystery, and so believed
to be by its own advocates ; yet they admit the truthfulness of the same,
having been convinced by the evidence of their own senses. Among
such, and others, the question is asked— “ Why is it so ?” Give me
your candid attention, and I will give the answer.
I am aware of the responsibility resting upon me to redeem my
promise. Then follow me closely through with the investigation, and
see if we cannot discover something of the mystery of our present
mode of existence, and in this, the primary cause of the great subject
before us. To Physicians, I would say—Animal Magnetism is based
upon physiological truths; and, therefore, is entitled to the serious
consideration of men of your profession. Examine, therefore, careful­
ly the lectures here presented, and see if you cannot discover in them
6 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIYENESS.
science and phylosophy. To Clergymen, I would say See if there
is not in this subject, deep and convincing evidence of the truth of
Christianity; and if it does not unfold to your view the evidences
which have so long been called for by sceptical minds. The subject
before us affords the strongest argument in support of the truth which
vou have so long labored to maintain. Candidly investigate it, there­
fore, and see if you cannot claim it as one of your strongest proofs in
favor of the faith once delivered to the Saints. To the honest inquirer
after truth, I would say—Follow me through uith these researches,
and see if you cannot find in them that which will make you view
yourself and mankind in a new and interesting light, and which shall
satisfy you that your existence is a blessing instead of a curse. And
to all I would say—If Animal Magnetism be not a science—if it be
not a truth, put it down. But this conclusion cannot be arrived at, on
your part, without candid and careful attention ; and such attention
ought certainly to be bestowed.
The questions to be considered in these lectures are the follow­
ing;—
1st. The Brain—its physical structure, and magnetic power, &c.
2d. The structure of the Muscular and Symnathetic Nerves—their
office, functions, &c.
3d. The Production of Mind.
4th. The Duality of Mind.
5th. The Brain in connection with the Magnetic and Electric
Fluids.
6th. The Production of the Magnetic and Electric Fluids.
7th. The Exposition of Clairmativeness and Clairvoyance.
My object in these lectures will he to convince the understanding
of the truth, and for this reason I shall employ plain and simple lan­
guage, purposely avoiding embellishment of every description. Beau­
ty of language,—studied phrases in setting forth a theory,—rhetorical
flights and figures, may please the fancy, but are not so well calculated
to convince the human mind as simplicity and plainness of speech.
The theory of Magnetism itself is sublime ; and its sublimity may best
be seen when not presented ifi gaudy show or borrowed livery.
First. The Brain has four distinct apartments. The larger brain,
or Cerebrum, is situated at the top, and extends to the front of the
head. Its cavities are a great deal larger and more round than those
of the lesser brain; consequently it possesses more substance. The
Lesser Brain lies in the back part of the head ;—this brain is divided
into two cavities or departments, and is separated by a strong, mem­
braneous, elastic substance, and is covered by an equally strong, but
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIYEN'ESS. 7
thinner substance, termed Dura Mater. The brain itself is a soft, plia­
ble, sensitive substance. Its appearance round the edge, in the living
subject, is of a light red color. Externally, it has the appearance of
a compound substance,—possesses a brighter and more beautiful color.
Such is the larger brain.
The Lesser Brain has more of a yellow color in its external appear­
ance does not possess such a lively hue as the former, and is more
duil and inanimate. It preserves the same appearance in its down­
ward extension. This is what is termed the “ Medella Oblongata
The whole brain is made up of small sensitive nerves. One square
inch of brain contains upwards of b6,000 fibres.
Second. Man has five distinct senses—Sight, Hearing, Taste, Smell,
and Touch. Through these senses all external impressions are con­
veyed to the brain, through the medium of what we shall here term
the sympathetic nerves. These sympathetic nerves extend through
the whole system. Every muscle or particle of flesh is connected
with them. They extend to every joint, every tendon, every mem­
brane, and through every bone of the system. In their passing
through every particle of flesh, they gather from it substances which
they carry to every membrane, tendon, muscle and ligament, which
surrounds, controls and embraces every joint. They are thickly dis­
persed through the bones, and are traced to the utmost extremities,
and in fibres so small, that their existence has been questioned.
To show that these nerves pass through every bone, we will sup­
pose a bone in any part of the body broken. After placing the parts
together, and keeping the limb in a quiet condition for a period of
time, they become solid as before. Now, if I should ask the Physi­
cian, why the bones do grow together again ? his answer would inva­
riably be, “ It is natural.”
Again. Suppose that a wound is made in the flesh, and I should
ask the physician if it would heal again ? “ Certainly,” would be the
answer. Suppose I should ask him why he is convinced it will heal
again 1 His answer would be, “ I know it by experience.”
Almost in every case the physician is not acquainted with the pri­
mary cause of its becoming restored, but simply affirms, I know
it by experience.”
Now we will take the bone that is broken, and place the parts
together, as before mentioned, and we will inquire the cause of its be­
coming sound. The small fibres or nerves in the bone are set at work.
They accumulate and carry regularly small substances or particles
f nd deposit them at tfye place broken. Ten thousand of these in one
bone, perform the same action, and continue depositing small substan-
8 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
ces until they completely unite the broken bone together. These de-
posites become ossified, which gives the strength. How plain is the
cause, therefore, why it is natural for two bones to grow together or
become united. Whenever a bone in any part of the system is affected,
the pain in that bone is most insufferable. But would such sensation
exist, in the part affected, unless there were nerves of sensation existing
in the bone itself? Certainly not.
Again. In the wound in the flesh, which was mentioned, the same
nerves perform the same action,—they accumulate and keep accumulat­
ing substances, and carry them tothe wound. A deposit is never mispla­
ced ,—and if let alone, or treated properly, never heals too fast, and
never produces mis-action. These nerves keep continually acting and
re-acting, until the wound is completely restored.
Alike this, and to the same end, the ramifications are made by them
through the whole system; and so perfect is their action, that they
form, renovate, and produce an entire new system in the space of from
five to seven years—the old particles, through the action of these,
being thrown offby the pores and glands of the flesh, &c.
These nerves extending from the brain itself to every part of the
body, become the grand agents of transmitting all sensations, from ex­
ternal objects and impressions, to the brain. But what is the cause of
sensation arriving immediately at the brain from the seeing of an ob­
ject, the hearing of a sound, the smelling of an odour, or the touching
of any solid body? Why is not the sensation produced or conveyea
to some other part of the system, or upon the whole body alike ?
There can be but one answer to this question, which is, that the brair
itself is positive, or that it possesses a positive attractive power over all
external communication. Every object in existence which is subject
to the magnetic influence, or which is magnetic in itself, has a posi­
tive and negative pole. The earth has its positive and negative poles,
the magnetised bar of steel, and the needle by which the mariner di­
rects his course over the watery waste. This is a law of inert matter
which the Deity has established, and why may not the same law in a
modified form extend to man, and to all other animated beings ?
The sensorium of the brain is made up of more sensitive substance
than any other part of the system; and being so sensitive, it draws all
other impulses from the external organs, and is analagous to the
wound spoken of in the flesh. It is with this, as has been shown to
be the case with the nerves ;—they perform their action at the wound,
for the reason that the wound when made becomes of a positive
or attractive nature. All impulses, through the power of attract
tion, arrive at the brain and make impressions ' there. Were no'
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 9
the brain a magnet—did it not possess a positive power over all exter­
nal impulses, sight or sound, would be as likely to produce sensation
in the feet, the hands or the body, as at the brain. But the brain
alone is affected through these senses. The brain, therefore, is at­
tractive.
The Lesser Brain possesses the power of motion. There is one
distinct sense or organ which has the power of causing locomotion.
The power is conducted from the lesser brain, down its continuation
until it joins the spinal chord. From thence it is conducted through
the system by thirty-two distinct pairs of nerves, commonly termed the
“ muscular nerves." All these nerves and muscles are under the con­
trol of the mind, and give motion to the body, the limbs and all their
appendages. The action of these nerves is voluntary; i. e., they are
contioiled wholly by the will, moving at its bidding the eyes, the
tongue, the head, an arm, the fingers, &c. These organs and limbs
never move unless the mind wills them to move. There can be no
muscular action unless an effort of the will is first put forth. I am
now in the position in which you behold me—standing here. Now
if the power of willing were taken from me at this moment, I should
always remain upon this spot unless removed by some foreign power.
To change my present position and move to another part of the room,
I must first put forth an effort of the will. I will, then, to move to the
other part of the room: the moment I will to go to that part of the
room, the nerves are acted upon, moving the limbs which perform the
office of locomotion, conveying me to the spot where I had designed
to go ; so completely are these nerves under the control of the will.
Now the mind is often deceived in the appearance of things, and a
greater effort of the will, in consequence, is put forth to accomplish a
thing than is actually necessary. For instance, I see a large stone
lying at my feet. Knowing the density and weight of stones general­
ly, I put forth an effort to raise it. The effort is just in proportion to
my previous knowledge of the general weight of stones of the size of
that which I am about to lift. But when I grasp the stone and raise
it up very suddenly, I am, for the moment, surprised. I find it not
half so heavy as I had supposed, owing to its porous state,—and I
have put forth twice the effort of the will, and consequently twice the
amount of force that I need to have done to accomplish iny object.
This is owing to the mind or judgment’s being deceived relative to
the weight of the substance. This often happens.
Again : I approach an object—it may be a small cask. I stoop to
raise it, but do not succeed in the first attempt. The cask is filled with
a heavy substance, of the weight of which I was ignorant; conse-
10 LECTURES ON CLAIKMATtVENESS.
quently, the first effort was not sufficiently powerful to raise it. I then
put forth a greater effort, and accomplish my object.
Now from this fact you discover that the first effort is in the will it­
self; and the force or strength, exerted in the nerves, is just in propor­
tion to the strength or exercise of the will. Were it not so, there
would have been just strength sufficient exerted to lift the stone in the
first instance, and no more. And in the second, there would have
been enough exerted to lift the cask in the first attempt. But in both
cases the judgment was deceived ; and hence, in the first, a supera­
bundance of force, and in the second, not enough.
Be it remembered then, that the nerves of motion are always con­
trolled by the mind or will, unless indeed, as is sometimes the case,
their action is arrested by a diseased state, as in paralytic affections,
when the mind cannot act upon them. In such cases, they no longer
obey the will—its agency of producing obedience being arrested. But
in the healthy state, the will always controls them, but the nerves
themselves never control the will.
The Sympathetic Nerves, of which we have before spoken, have a
different office to perform. Their office and functions are unlike the
others. The mind acts upon and controls the muscular nerves,—but
the sympathetic nerves act upon the brain and control the mind.
Through these nerves, all sensations are conveyed to the mind. The
sense of sight, of hearing, of taste, of smell, and of touch, are convey­
ed to the brain through these nerves unbidden by the will, and in
many cases, absolutely against it. They arc complete masters of the
mind in this respect. A person cannot prevent the sense of sight, un­
less he closes his eyes; and, if he sees an object, he cannot prevent
an impression being made on the brain, if he closes his eyes imme­
diately after having seen it. He cannot prevent the sense of touch, if
you make an impression on his body, though he exert his will ever so
much. Neither* can he prevent taste, if he put any substance in his
mouth ;—nor hearing that which may be ever so disagreeable to him,
unless he stops his ears with his fingers, or Temoves himself beyond
the sound of the words that are addressed to him. We cannot pre­
vent the smell of a bad odor when we come in contact with it, how­
ever nauseating it may be, unless we close with our hands the organ
of smell
These sensations then, are all conveyed to the brain, unbidden by
the will, an), in many cases, absolutely against it; thus acting upon
and controlling the mind, as the mind, through the exercise of its own
will, acts upon and controls the muscular nerves. From these facts,
it is shown that the mind is subject to one set of organs, and is full
master over another.
T.ECTUKES OS CLAIEMATIVENES3. 11
All the senses that have been considered, act involuntarily; and
the brain being positive or attractive, irresistibly receives their im­
pulses,—for it is impossible for a person not to receive communica­
tions from the organs of sense. Therefore, as these communications
are irresistibly carried to the brain, the former conclusion is cor­
rect, that the brain itself is positive. Hence, the brain is a magnet, its
operations are magnetic, and its phenomena are magnetism.
Third. The mind itself is formed through the five senses, and by
the medium of the sympathetic nerves.
Reckoning the senses of man all perfect, we will proceed to show
the bearing they have on the mind. The first organ we will notice
is the Eye. The organ, nerve and brain, compose the sense of vision.
The eye is placed upon an object: the sense of that object is conveyed
by the nerve to the brain, and leaves an impression there.
The next organ to be considered is the Ear. The organ receives
the sound: the nerves convey the sense ofthat to the brain, and leave
the impression there.
In the third place, we will consider Taste. The organ receives the
substance: the sense of that is conveyed by the nerve to the brain,
and leaves the impression there.
The fourth is Smell: an odor is received into the organ—the sense
of that is conveyed by the nerve to the brain, and leaves there the im­
pression.
Fifth, the Sense of Touch. An impression is made on the body:
the sympathetic nerves convey the sense of that to the brain, and, as
in the former cases, the impression is made there.
These are the five senses through which the mind is formed, and
without which, no mind acting in harmony with the physical organi­
zation exists.
To prove this, we will take one or all of these senses, and cast them
from the body. If a person have not the organ of vision, he has no
means whereby he can receive the impression of sight; consequently,
no impression of that kind can be made on the brain. He is utterly
incapable of forming any correct idea whatever as to the true nature
of sight, because that idea itself can only be obtained from actual ex­
perience—from actual vision. Through the action of the eye and
nerve, ar. impression is made on the brain, and that impression itself
constitutes what we term seeing. Hence, without the organ, that im­
pulsion can never be made, and one, so situated, is thereby deprived
of all means by which he can ever obtain a correct idea of that sense.
The following account, which I take from the “ Village Register,"
of an operation performed by Dr. Grant, on the eyes of a man born
12 LECTURES OX CLAIRMATIVENESS.
blind, suddenly restoring him to sight, is confirmation of the above :—
“ Dr. Grant having observed the eyes of his patient, and convincing
his friends and relatives that it was highly probable that he could
remove the obstacle which prevented his sight, all his friends and ac­
quaintance who had any curiosity to be present, when one of full age
and understanding was to receive a new sense, assembled themselves
on the occasion, but were desired to preserve profound silence in case
sight was restored, in order to let the patient make his own observa­
tions, without the advantage of discovering his friends by their voices,
Among many others, the mother, brothers, sisters, and a young lady
for whom he had formed a particular attachment, were present. The
operation was performed with great skill, so that sight was instantly
produced.
When the patient received the dawn of light, there appeared such
extasy in his action, that he seemed ready to swoon away in the sur­
prise of joy and wonder. The Surgeon stood before him with his in­
strument in his hand. The patient observed him from head to foot,
and then observed himself as carefully; and comparing to himself, he
observed the hands of both were exactly alike, excepting the instru­
ment, which he took to be a part of the Surgeon’s hand. When he
had continued in this amazement for several minutes, his mother
could no longer bear the agitation of so many passions as thronged
upon her, and fell upon his neck, crying out—! My son, my son !’
The young gentleman knew her voice, and could say no more than—
1Oh, me, are you my dear mother?’ and fainted. On his recovery,
he heard the voice of his female friend, which had a surprising effect
upon him. Having called her to him, he appeared to view her with
admiration and delight, and asked her what had been done to him.
: Whither,’ said he, 1have I been carried ? Is all this about me, the
thing that I have heard so much of? Is this seeing? Were you al­
ways thus so happy and glad to see each other?’ In all his con­
versation, he manifested but faint ideas of anything which had not
been received by the ear or through the sense of touch.”
Now, all the circumstances connected with this case, go to show
that the blind patient had never formed any definite idea of the true
nature of vision, and hence his surprise, joy and wonder, when sight
was produced. He was, till that moment, lacking in that part of mind
which is formed through the sense of sight.
In the second-place, let us consider the ear destroyed, or never exist­
ing : there would be no impression made through this organ on the
brain. As an illustration, I give the following from 1
1Goldsmith’s
Animated N a t u r e —
LECTURES ON CLA1R1IATIVENESS. 13
“ A young man of the town of Chartres, between the age of 23 and
24, the son of a tradesman, and deaf and dumb from his birth, began
to speak all of a sudden, to the great astonishment of the whole town.
He gave them to understand, that about three or four months before,
he had heard the sound of the bells for the first time, and was greatly
surprised at this new and unknown sensation. After some time, a kind
of water issued from the left ear : he then heard perfectly well with
both. During these three months, he was sedulously employed in
listening, without saying a word, and accustoming himself to speak
softly, (so as not to be heard,) the words spoken by others. He labored
hard also in perfecting himself in the pronunciation, and in the ideas
attached to every sound. At length, having supposed himselfqualified
to break silence, he declared that he could now speak, although as
yet but very imperfectly. Soon after, some able Divines questioned him
concerning his ideas of his past state, and principally with respect
to his ideas of God, his soul, and the morality or turpitude of actions.
The young man, however, had not drawn his speculations into that
channel. He had gone to mass, indeed, with his parents, and learned
to sign himself with the cross—to kneel down and to imitate all the
actions of a man that was praying; but he did all this without any
manner of knowledge of the design or object. He saw others do the
like, and that was enough for him. He knew nothing even of death,
and it never entered into his head : he led a life of pure animal in­
stinct ; entirely taken up with sensible objects, and such as were
present.”
In the third place, consider that the taste never existed : there would
be no impression through this organ on the brain.
Consider the organ of smell also destroyed, and the former would
be the result.
Consider, lastly, a man existing without the sense of touch;—the
brain would be unconscious of any such existing power.
I have observed that without these senses there would be no mind.
Suppose a human being entirely destitute of all these senses,—he
would never have any consciousness of any of these existing powers
or agencies. Hence, there would be no cause to produce an effect,
i. e., mind. Such a person would have no mind:—he never heard a
sound,—has never seen an object,—has never experienced taste nor
smell,—he is entirely destitute of all susceptibility : therefore, the for­
mer conclusion would be demonstrated. Ho would merely inhale
and exhale the breath, without being conscious of it.—Such an one
would possess no mind, no judgment, no understanding.
Now, on the other hand, let us open one of these doors that have
14 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
always been shut;—let us open the organ of vision, ana it opens to
him a world of objects and sights. The sensation is carried by the
nerve to the brain : here is a cause producing an effect, and that effect
produces just mind enough to make him conscious that he sees.
Again. Throw open the organ of the ear, and the same effect is
produced on the brain. Both of these effects produce or form mind ;
and this is the medium by which he receives all the mind that he as
yet possesses—through the opening of these two doors. Open two
more, i. e., taste and smell; and the same effect is produced which
causes mind. He is then aware of sight, hearing, taste and smell.
With these four senses he now possesses, he is still unconscious of all
susceptibility. Any infliction can be made on the body without sub­
jecting him to the least suffering,—he will experience no pain or
sensation. He is destitute of the sense of touch, which produces that
part of mind,—he never experienced it. Now just open the door of
touch, and set that sense in operation—clear away all obstruction be­
tween that sense and the brain, and he is suddenly conscious of all
susceptibility. All these organs are now set at work : the evidence of
these organs is carried to the sensoriutn of the brain: there it is di­
gested,—the digestion produces the mind—the mind the intellect, the
judgment and the understanding.
I am aware that these views, concerning the origin or formation of
mind, will subject me to the charge of materialism ; but such a con­
clusion would be wholly premature, since it will be shown in the pro­
per place, that mind itself is not a production of the gross materials of
which our bodies are formed ; and that it is dependent upon the physi­
cal system only for its formation in the brain of man. The mind is
an immaterial, imponderable substance, and in no wise dependant
upon matter for its existence.
It is painful to see with what jealousy a certain class of religionists
look upon every new development of science, fearful that religion, or,
at least, that which they have erroneously called religion, will thereby
be endangered. Such men, however strenuously they may advocate
Christianity, are the greatest sceptics in community. Suppose it were
proved beyond a doubt, that the mind of man was not an immaterial
or immortal principle,—ought this, if I am a Christian, to overthrow
my faith in a future state of immortal existence? Is not Christ’s re­
surrection certain proof of life beyond the grave ? Is not the voice of
Revelation—“ the dead shall be raised incorruptible— this mortal shall
put on im m ortalitysufficient to fortify our minds and give us a well
grounded hope of future existence? This is the only sure hope for
the Christian .—the foundation of all hope is the resurrection of our
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 15
blessed Lord. This, science can never overthrow, and therefore, re­
ligion can never be endangered, whether it be proved that the human
mind is mortal or immortal—material or immaterial. But these scepti­
cal Christians, to whom we have alluded, and who are ready to sound
the alarm against every new discovery that is made in science,as though
they themselves were the physical guardians of all that is sacred, hug
closely to their embrace the doctrine ot the immortality of the mind as
their only hope of future life ; whilst the glorious doctrine of the resur­
rection, as set forth in the Holy Scriptures, it would seem, is one of
minor importance in their estimation !! However, there is no cause for
alarm in the views we have presented on that subject, since the doc­
trine of the immortality of the mind is confirmed, rather than denied.
The sentiments I have advanced upon the origin or formation of mind,
are a practical comment upon the following passage of Scripture :—
“ And God formed man of the dust ofthe earth, and breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life, and he became a living soul.” It cannot be
doubted that the “ breath of h fc f which God breathed into man, was
the immortal part, or mind, which is the principle of all life and ani­
mation. It was this which constituted the living soul, and not the air
which is inhaled, and exhaled by the lungs, which, it is vulgarly sup­
posed, was the breath of.God. ' The breath of life, which came from
God, was the soul, the mind—and this was breathed into man’s nos­
trils, or through his senses, as the expression plainly implies. We
are not to understand the language of the inspired penman in its most
literal sense, that God actually breathed the breath of life into man
God is a spirit,—he performs all his work by fixed and unalterable
laws. The elements are subservient to him, and are made the agents
by which he performs his “ handy work.” _The physical frame of
man was first formed by laws, doubtless, which God. had instituted for
that end ;—then, by other laws, the. “ breath of life,” or the intelligent,
thinking soul, was breathed through his senses, and he awoke to life
and consciousness, to rejoice in his newly discovered existence. But
we must defer further remarks upon this point until our fourth lec­
ture, when we shall have occasion to point out more fully the nature
of those laws by which mind is formed.
Fourth. We are to speak of the Duality of Mind. Mari has two
distinct minds. The brain has two general divisions,—the Cere­
brum, or proper brain, so called ; and the Cerebellum, The Cere­
brum is the uppermost and largest. The Cerebellum, or lesser
brain, lies below and behind ; being separated from the former, by
the Tentorium. The larger brain, is the seat of one mind, and the
lesser brain is the seat of the other. For the sake of distinction we
shall call these minds the larger and the lesser. By the larger mind,
we mean that which exists in the larger brain. And by the lesser
mind, we mean that which exists in the lesser brain. We would not
here be understood to say, that man has two distinct intelligent minds—
this is not our idea. There can be but one intelligent mind, which
is that located in the larger brain. That which we termed the lesser
mind is unintelligent, and subordinate to the larger, and is made the
agent or instrument of all voluntary motion ;—this is its office, as will
be shown in the Lectures which are to follow.
16 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
It has already been shown, and the fact is generally admitted by
physiologists, that muscular motion is produced from the smaller
>rain, through the exercise of the will. Will is simply an attribute,
or an exercise of the larger mind. This mind makes an impression
on the lesser mind, exciting it to action, and this last moves, in conse­
quence, the nerves of motion, and thus muscular action is produced.
This accounts for the phenomenon of sleep. The greater mind,
which excites to action the lesser, producing motion and locomotion,
gives up its controlling power, when the latter, becoming inactive,
falls into that state we commonly term sleep. All voluntary motion
then, of course, ceases. The five senses, sight, hearing, taste, smell
and touch, are closed. Impressions, through these senses, are no
longer made on the brain. Now, if tnan possessed but one mind, and
if this mind ever became inactive, when sleep was once produced, he
would never be able of himself to wake again from that state. But
the larger mind never slumbers,—it is always in active operation .—it
stands sentinel during the hours of sleep. When nature has balanced
and recruited her disordered forces, during the hours of repose, that
waking mind makes an impression upon the lesser, rousing it to ac­
tion, and muscular motion is again performed. Sometimes on retiring
to rest, we charge our minds with the time at which we wish to awake,
and we are generally awakened at the time appointed. This again is
evidence of the fact that there is, during sleep, a waking mind which
rouses us at the time appointed. So far as my own experience is con­
cerned, I do not recollect of a single instance of failure in this respect.
I am always awakened at, or very near, the time which I had deter­
mined on before going to sleep.
This view of the subject also accounts for the phenomena of ordi­
nary dreaming. The larger mind is never inactive:—during sleep,
it is either occupied in reviewing the events to which its attention had
been called during the day, or wandering away into the regions of
fancy, picturing to itself scenes often of a ludicrous and visionary cha­
racter. Some of its operations are distinctly impressed upon itself,
and these, when we wake, are immediately recalled. Now the very
fact of dreaming, and the recollection of those dreams, proves most
conclusively that there is mind in active exercise during our slumbers.
It proves also the duality of mind. If the mind be one and indivisible,
it would be utterly impossible for a part of that mind to slumber,
whilst the other part was in active exercise. And that that part of
mind which has the control of muscular or voluntary motion, is inac­
tive during sleep, is proved from the fact itself, that muscular action
does not exist. And also on the other hand, that a part of mind is ac­
tive during sleep, is proved from the fact of dreaming. This estab­
lishes the doctrine of the duality of mind.
Another evidence of the doctrine under examination is, that a man
can perform two or more actions at the same time. He can converse
and he can walk ; he can compose, and he can write ; he can think,
and he can give utterance to those thoughts. In all extemporaneous
speaking, the two minds are in active exercise. The larger mind
contemplates, investigates, compares and arranges the subject or mat­
ter to be presented, and the smaller mind, at the same moment, moves
the organs of speech which give utterance to the same. Were it not
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 17
so, we could never converse whilst we were walking, nor compose
whilst we were writing, nor investigate and arrange matter whilst
speaking in an extemporaneous manner.
L E C T U R E S E C O N D .
In our first Lecture, we spoke— 1. Of the Brain, its structure and
magnetic power; 2. Of the sympathetic and muscular Nerves,—their
office, functions, &c.; 3. of the Formation of Mind; and 4. Of the
Duality of Mind.
As the doctrine of the duality of mind was barely touched upon at
the close of the Lecture, we deem it expedient to give a further illustra­
tion of the matter in this place, before proceeding to a discussion of the
questions which are to .occupy our attention in the present Lecture,—
namely, the Brain, and its connection with the magnetic and electric
fluids.
The arguments employed in support of the duality of mind, were
briefly as follows : 1. That the Brain has two general divisions—the
Cerebrum and the Cerebellum. These are separated by the Tentorium.
2. The cerebrum, or larger brain, is the seat of one mind, the intellec­
tual ; and the cerebellum is the seat of the other. 3. To distinguish the
two, that occupying the larger brain was termed the larger mind ; and
that occupying the smaller brain was termed the lesser mind. 4. It
was argued that the larger mind was never inactive,—that it governed
or controlled the lesser mind by the positive dictation of its own will,
and that by thus acting upon the lesser, muscular motion was produced.
In this way the phenomena of sleep and of ordinary dreaming was ac­
counted for. In sleep, the senses are closed, and no impressions through
those senses are made on the larger mind,—nevertheless, the mind is
still in active operation, either reviewing the events that have occupied
it during the day, or wandering away into the regions of fancy. This
is dreaming. The lesser mind, which is made the instrument of mus­
cular action, is inactive during this state. It was further shown, that if
the larger mind was subject to sleep or inactivity during our repose, we
could never of "ourselves awake from that state,—that if the common
doctrine of metaphysicians were true, that the mind is one and indivisi­
ble, it would be utterly impossible for a part of that mind to be active
whilst another part was inactive,—that if inactivity existed at all, it must
exist as a whole, in a substance which of itself is a unit; and that con­
sequently, the phenomenon of dreaming could never occur. The doc­
trine, therefore, of the unity of mind, must be abandoned, and that of its
duality must be received.
Another evidence ofthe fact under consideration is that ofsleep-walking.
Persons have been known, during the hours of sleep, when the senses
have been completely closed to all external impressions, to arise from
their beds and to engage for some length of time in the labors that have
occupied their attention during the day, and to remain unconscious
of the same until it has been pointed out to them by those who have
18 LECTURES ON CLAIRMAT1VEN ESS
witnessed it, and even then they have been unable to recall any recollec­
tion of it to their minds. This proves most conclusively, that the mind
is in active exercise during deep sleep, and when the person himself is
unconscious of any thing of the kind. This is analagous to the mag­
netic sleep. The mind of the subject is active whilst in the magnetic
state, but he is unconscious of any thing that has transpired, when
awakened from that state—the external senses being closed as in natural
sleep. The commonly received doctrine is, that the mind is wholly in­
active during deep slumber; and that dreaming never occurs unless the
sleep is broken or disturbed. But the fact of sleep-walking, when the
senses are completely closed, and the individual unconscious of what
has taken place with himself during that state, disproves this doctrine,
and at the same time confirms the other, that mind is active during our
deepest sleep.
In proof of the duality of mind, it was further stated, that a man
could perform two or more actions at the same moment, which could not
be done if the mind were one and indivisible. A person can converse,
and he can walk;—he can think, and he can give utterance to those
thoughts. It was stated that in all extemporaneous speaking, the two minds
were in active operation. The larger mind contemplates, investigates,
compares and arranges the subject or matter to be presented, and the
smaller mind at the same time, in obedience to the will of the larger,
moves the organs of speech, through which utterance is given to the
same. Were it not so, we could never arrange or investigate any sub­
ject whilst speaking extemporaneously. The lesser mind is subject
to the larger, and is made the instrument of all voluntary motion. We
will to move an arm,—at that moment an impression is made on the
lesser mind, and the muscular nerves are immediately contracted, and
the motion of the limb is produced. The lesser mind is not only subject
to the larger, but is dependent on that for its every movement. The fol­
lowing will illustrate the idea I wish to convey:—
Take the common steam-engine. The water must first exist in the
boiler ;—when this is heated, it sends off a steam which forces the main
piston, and this causes the voluntary motion of the engine. So with the
subject under examination ; the larger mind moves the lesser—and the
lesser, like the steam arising from the water in the boiler, produces the
voluntary motions of the body. The steam from the boiler cannot be
sent off without the application of heat to the water. So with the lesser
mind;—it cannot receive motion without the positive exercise of will
in the larger mind. Will moves it; and it can have no motion without
the positive exercise of will.
During sleep, positive volition, or will, ceases ; the lesser mind then
is inactive,—consequently, the nerves of motion are at rest or in a lassi­
tude state. Perhaps the following figure will better illustrate our posi­
tion :—
The water in the doom moves the wheel which puts in motion the
machinery of the mill. The floom is supplied with water from the
pond. Now shut the gate that admits the water from the pond into the
floom, and the wheel will keep in motion until the floom has emptied
itself: it will then stop,—and it cannot be set in motion again until the
gate is hoisted which prevents the escape of water from the pond. When
LECTURES ON CLAIRMAT1VENESS. 19
this is done, the floom becomes filled, and the wheel is again in active
operation.
Now, the pond may represent the larger mind; the floom, the lesser ;
the wheel wjrich moves the mill, may represent the nerves of motion in
the animal body ; the gate may represent the will. Stop the exercise of
the will, and the lesser mind is motionless, and the nerves in conse­
quence inactive. This is accomplished in sleep. Now, before mus­
cular motion can again be produced, there must be an exercise of the
will. The lesser mind, which is the agent of all voluntary motion, is
continually supplied by five large streams, the senses, which keep the
fountain full.
Fifth. I now proceed to consider the Brain in connection with the
Magnetic and Electric Fluids.
It has several times been stated that muscular motion is performed
through the exercise of the will, and through the medium of the brain
and nerves. “ But are the nerves themselves a medium fitting for this
work? Let us examinethem, and we shall find nothing whatever toaccount
for their marvelous capacity. They are, to appearance, the weakest of
all weak instruments: mere soft, white filaments, enveloped in a fine
cellular membrane, and yet the strength and power of all the body is
derived from them ! This simple fact reduces us to a dilemma. Either
we must believe the nervous substance to be the channel of some ulterior
and efficient energy, to us invisible, or we must admit, according to
Puscasl’s generally received definition, namely, an effect exceeding the
natural force of the means employed, that a constant miracle is taking
place in our mortal frames.
“ But we naturally shrink from attributing to direct Divine agency
every minute corporeal motion of the body. It is not the will itself
which directly moves the muscle ; if it did, we should have to seek no
further for an adequate agency. But as we know the will moves the
muscle indirectly, and through the medium of the brain and nerves, in
this case there is a known sequence of events, and a sequence which, as
it stands at present, is an absurdity. The weak, soft fibre stirs the muscle,
as we are told, so immediately, that its fibres shorten and become hard
without any preparatory oscillation or hesitation, and they acquire all at
once such an elasticity that they are capable of vibrating or producing
sounds ! There is nothing in magnetism more wonderful than this—
more difficult of digestion to credulity itself, when we take matter as it
stands, without bringing into view an ulterior agency, an efficient force.
Why shrink we from so doing?
“ When we look upon the heavens, and behold the magnificent sys­
tem of worlds moving round a common centre, we acknowledge all this
harmony to be the result of a force we call gravitation. But what is the
wonder of the universe compared to the mystery of mind moving mat­
ter and actuating it? It is wonderful—but we need not, on that account,
render it an absurdity by inefficient causation, by denying the mind or
will an adequate, intermediate agency. Such denials betray Physiolo­
gists into great inconsistencies; as for instance, Magendi one moment
censures attempts to explain muscular contraction, and the very next ex­
plains it himselfby the vaguest ofall vague terms—'■'■Cerebralinfluence"— ■
affirming at the same time, that from the strength of maniacs, muscular
20 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
power may be carried to a wonderful degree by the action of the brain
alone!
“ What is this brain ? What are the nerves, that they should possess
such power of action ? Is it inherent in them ? If so, why does it not
exist or endure when man has ceased to think and to live? Examine a
nerve apart from the intelligent being it once served : pore over it with
the microscope ; then take the brain and weigh it well, or cut it up into
sections ;—where is the innate power of action ? Where is all that may
truly be called power, namely, the enduring and essential capacity of
originating motion ? If then it be an absurdity to attribute an inherent
power of motion to flesh and fibre, it is also an absurdity to attribute to
weak instruments like the nerves an inherent power of stirring in a mo­
ment the strong volume of a muscle. And if the power be not inherent,
where is it ? Grant all we can grant, as it regards the efficiency of will
or mind to stir its own organizatiou, we must beware how we charge
inconsistency upon the Creator, by snpposing him to violate those laws
of action which he points out to us by manifest signs; and never has
our experience shown, that by a weaker agent we can move a stronger ;
in a case, too, where the disproportion is manifest, and where there are
no connecting links to prepare the way for the action of the much weak­
er upon the much stronger. Again, I ask, where are we to look for the
force that effects such wonders?
“ Now, we fear not to explain muscular action in the dead by a force
we call Galvanic. Why will we not explain it in the living by some
efficient force at least ?—for here we have equally a sensible phenome­
non that calls for an adequate explanation.
“ I know not what philosophic doubt may make of this question, but
certainly common sense decides from the ordinary phenomena of muscu­
lar motion, that the mind metes out and dispenses a force adequate to the
moving of the muscle, and consequently of the body.
“ One of the most interesting of all philosophical inquiries has been,
whether there may not exist a special, though invisible, agency, appro­
priate to the nervous system, through which sensation is accomplished,
and animal motion performed. Charles Bonnet, of Geneva, a century
ago, suggested that there was an elastic ether resident in the nerves in a
manner analogous to that in which the electric fluid resides in the solid
bodies along which it is conducted. He says—“ Should we admit that
there is in the nerves a fluid, which in elasticity resembles light or ether,
by the help of such an agency we may easily explain the celerity with
which external impressions are communicated to the mind, and that with
which the mind executes so many diversified operations. This sugges­
tion has been variously received or combatted, but never absolutely drop­
ped, or decided one way or the other, by physiologists.”
But Mesmerism does decide this question. It proves what Bonnet
suggested might exist, actually docs exist. That there is a subtle fluid,
which is the agent of conveying the sense of impressions made on the
body, along the sympathetic nerves to the brain, is, a fact susceptible of
the most complete demonstration; and also that the mind, through an­
other fluid as its agent, acts upon another set of nerves so as to produce
muscular action and motion.
These fluids are distinct and separate from each other: the one, the
cause of all involuntary motion 5 and the other, the agent of all volun-
LECTURES OK CLAIRMATIVENES3. 21
tary motion. And of the absolute existence of these fluids, we are all
made certain ; so that we are not thrown upon conjecture, as previous
writers have been in all that they have said of the nervous fluid.
That fluid which exists in the sympathetic nerves, and which is the
grand agent of transmitting all sensations to the brain, by means of the
brain’s magnetic power, is A nimal H eat ; and that fluid which moves
the muscular nerves, through the exercise of the will, is E le c tr ic ity .
Animal heat exists in the body: this heat is what we term animal
magnetism. It is a subtle, sensitive fluid; and is confined to the sym­
pathetic nerves, ryid extends through the whole animal economy. It
exists only in animal bodies. The vital functions are performed by
this ; every involuntary secretion is made by it; every involuntary ac­
tion of the system is carried on and propelled by magnetism. All im­
pressions made upon the body are by this fluid unavoidably and irre­
sistibly carried to the sensorium of the brain, through the attractive pow­
er of that organ ; and every muscular action, as before stated, is perform­
ed through the exercise of the will, and by the aid of electricity. These
are the agents of all voluntary and involuntary motions in the animal
frame. .
That magnetism, or animal heat, is the agent of all feeling, and of
transmitting all sensation, is a fact easily established. Where animal
heat exists, sensation exists; but where it does not exist, no sensation
can be produced. Take, for example, a limb that has received a para­
lytic shock: it is entirely insensible to touch,—no sensation can be pro­
duced in it. The Magnetism, or heat, which is the cause of all sensa­
tion, is driven from that limb,—it no longer remains there; hence the
limb is necessarily deprived of all feeling. Now restore the magnetism
to the limb, and, at that moment, it again becomes sensitive.
So with a limb that is frozen ; when the frost enters, it displaces the
magnetism; and as the magnetism is displaced, all sensation or feeling
in that limb is displaced or removed with it; and when the cold takes
complete possession, it is no longer sensible to feeling or touch. Now,
displace the frost from the limb, by the introduction of animal heat, and
you find it restored to feeling—sensation returns with the heat.
These facts prove conclusively that heat is the agent of all feeling;
and it is by the same fluid that all impressions made on the body are
conducted to the brain. And here we find the key which unlocks the
mystery of the magnetic sleep which is produced in man ; and also ex­
plains the causes of many phenomena which we witness in nature, and
without which their causes would never be known.
Writers upon Mesmerism have generally assumed the ground, that
during the process of mesmerising, the magnetic fluid is imparted from
the system of the Operator to that of his Subject. But if the magnetic
fluid be the cause of sensation, as has been shown, the imparting of this
fluid in a greater quantity to the system of the Subject, instead of de­
stroying sensation-in him, would make him more sensitive ; and the Ope­
rator himself would be the one who would be insensible to feeling, as
the fluid, which is the agent of sensation, has left his system. But the
prevailing theory upon this subject should be entirely reversed. The
Operator, instead of imparting, extracts the magnetic fluid from the sys­
tem of his Subject, and receives a portion of the same into his own sys­
tem. This is seen from the fact that the Operator, during the process of
LECTURES OX CLAIRMATIVENESS.
22
mesmerizing, is sensible of an increase of heat in his own system, so as
to produce, oftentimes, perspiration ; whilst the Operative becomes coif
as he continues to advance in the magnetic state. And when perfect
magnetic sleep is produced, there is just magnetism enough left in tho
system to carry on vital action. The fluid which existed in the nerves
of sensation is entirely withdrawn; for which reason the body becomes
insensible to touch, and the other senses closed to external objects and
impressions. In that state, any operation can be performed upon the
body without producing the least sensation or feeling.
Every person living is magnetized ; i. e. he pos&sses more or less of
the magnetic fluid or heat. To produce the phenomenon of the magnetic
sleep, he must become unmagnetized. To effect this, the mind of the
Subject must become passive, whilst that of the Operator is active or po­
sitive. The pores or glands of the flesh run downwards. The Opera­
tor, by making the downward passes, and by a firm exercise of the will,
extracts the magnetic fluid from the system ofhis subject,, and receives a
portion of the same into his own system. By these means he becomes
positive, and his subject becomes negative. It is then that he has com­
plete command, and can attract the hand or limb of his Subject, by mo­
ving his own, in every direction. There is a strong sympathy existing
between the Operator and his Subject,—and if you should inflict an inju­
ry upon the system of the former, however slight it might be, the latter
would be immediately sensible of it: when if, at the same time, you were
to inflict an injury upon his own system, he would remain insensible to
any thing of the kind. His sense of feeling, during the magnetic state,
exists altogether in his Mesmerizer. This is wonderful, and yet it is a
fact which is often witnessed. The cause of this remarkable phenome­
non will be explained in the next Lecture, when we come to speak of
the sympathetic state.
In waking the Subject out of the mesmeric sleep, the reverse passes
are made. As th§ pores or glands of the flesh run downwards, the Mes­
merizer, by passing his hands upwards, causes the magnetic fluid to re­
enter, through those pores, the system of his Subject, when the phenomena
that have been witnessed disappear, and he becomes sensible as before.
The mind of the Subject is entirely subjected to the will of the Mes­
merizer during the magnetic state ; and he cannot exercise his own will,
nor move a limb, if the Mesmerizer wills him not to,—but otherwise he
possesses the power of motion whilst in that state, and is capable of mus­
cular action. This circumstance is conclusive evidence that muscular
power or motion is performed by a fluid or agency different from that
of the magnetic. If muscular motion was produced by the magnetic
fluid, and if there were sufficient of this fluid remaining in the system to
perform this office, the individual would also be sensible to touch ; but
as he is not sensible to any feeling, it is evidence that a different fluid
exists in the muscular nerves to act upon and influence them.
* This fluid, as we have before stated, is Electricity. This is not dis­
placed by the operations of magnetizing. It is the mind’s organ or
agent of causing motion. It acts upon the nerves of motion by the com­
mand of the will, and never without. Hence the person mesmerized
cannot move a limb if the Operator forbid him, and for the simple rea­
son that he cannot will to move a limb, in which case the electric fluid
is not in action. But the moment that injunction is taken off, and the
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 23
will of the Subject is left free to act, the servant obeys its master, and
muscular motion is immediately performed.
It is a well known fact, that electricity acts wholly upon the muscular
nerves, when a shock is received from the electrical machine or the gal­
vanic battery. When a shock is received from the former, the whole
effect is on the muscular nerves, contracting them so suddenly that the
limb is brought upwards with a quick motion. If the galvanic battery
be applied to a dead body, the eyes and mouth are seen to open and shut
—the tongue to move, as though the person was about to speak—the
arms, the hands, the legs and feet also move; and if a powerful shock
be given, these limbs will move with frightful rapidity,—and in some
cases the corps, has been known to leap suddenly from the spot where it
lay, as though life had again been restored.
From these experiments it is shown that the electric fluid acts upon the
nerves of motion and locomotion. In the living subject, the mind is the
galvanic battery which directs this fluid along the muscular nerves, con­
tracting them, and thus producing every movement of the body. These
facts prove most conclusively that electricity is the grand agent by which
all muscular action is performed in the animal frame.
We have now shown that animal heat, or magnetism, is the cause of
all involuntary motion, and of all sensation in the human system ; and
that electricity is the cause of all muscular or voluntary motion. But
here, however, we anticipate an objection.
It may be contended that electricity itself is heat. And probably this
idea has grown out of the supposition that this fluid sometimes dissolves
metals and sets combustible materials on fire. But it is not the electric
fluid that sets combustible materials on fire;—it is a highly inflammable
gas, (hydrogen,) which this fluid comes in contact with, that produces
these effects :—and the experiment may at any time be successfully tried
with the electrical machine.
In dissolving metals, the electric fluid, under certain circumstances,
possesses the power of destroying their cohesive properties. All metals
exist in the solid state through cohesion. Destroy this property, and
they become soluent. This, electricity is capable of doing; but it is not
because the fluid itself is heat. Jewels in the ears, and rings on the
fingers, are sometimes dissolved by electricity; but at the same time no
sensation of heat is experienced by the persons who wear these orna­
ments at the time the phenomenon is witnessed. Were heat the agent
employed in dissolving those metals, injury would result from the same
to the persons themselves. But the fact that an individual may be so
completely insolated with this fluid that a spark may be drawn from any
part of his body, and he experiencing no sensation of heat at the time,
affords conclusive evidence that electricity itself is not heat. When the
individual is thus insolated, he experiences a chilling sensation. The
objection, therefore, that heat is electricity, is entirely exploded, and affords
no argument against our theory that magnetism and electricity, by which
all voluntary and involuntary motions are produced in the body, are two
distinct and separate agents or fluids. I should remark, however, in this
place, that the doctrine that electricity is heat, has of late been abandoned
by some eminent philosophers, and that it is now considered to be cold.
The theory which we have now presented of magnetism fully explains
the cause of a remarkable phenomenon in nature which hitherto has not
24 LECTURES ON CLAtRMATIVENESS.
been satisfactorily accounted for. It is a fact universally known, that
many insects, reptiles and animals, lie in a torpid state during many
months of the year, where they neither eat nor require food to sustain
them whilst they are subject to that state. Among these are common
house-flies, toads, serpents, bats, and many species of the bear. The house­
fly will lie insensible, and to all appearance dead, during the whole winter
season, and wake to life again in the spring. It is the same with
toads, bats and serpents. These insects and animals all require food to
sustain life when in the natural state. But toads have been known to
exist for a long series of years without a particle of food. They have
often been found imbedded in solid rock, where thev must have existed
for a very long period of time, and on being released from their confine­
ment they have come to life again and have moved away.
Now, the cause of this phenomenon is easily solved. The animal
became imprisoned in the substance composing the rock before it became
petrified ; for its existence there can never be accounted for on any other
ground. Hence it must have been confined there for a great length of
time before the rock could have become completely formed—probably
for centuries. In the rock, the same temperature is preserved. The
heat, or magnetism, is drawn from the animal’s system, when all vital
action ceases. When the animal is released from its confinement, and
exposed to light and the action of the atmosphere, which generate mag­
netism, this fluid again enters its system, and vital action is immediately
restored.
Upon the same principle is produced the torpid states of the other ani­
mals of which we have spoken. The bear, as winter approaches, retires
to his den; and as the cold gradually increases, it drives the heat or
magnetism from his system, so much so, that vital action is nearly arrested,
and the animal is hardly conscious of existence. There is not fluid
sufficient remaining in the system to perform the functions of digestion,
nor the renovation which is continually going on in all animal bodies
when in the natural state ; and for that reason food is not required. The
animal remains in this state until the return of spring, when the heat
penetrates his den, enters again his system, and he comes forth to pursue
his prey. I have seen bears in this condition in the middle of winter,
where they have been dragged from their dens, and when hardly any
signs of life could be discovered in them till they have been exposed for
some length of time to light and the action of the atmosphere, when they
have revived.
In the dens where these animals repose, the same temperature is pre­
served during the winter season. Sufficient cold to freeze the system
cannot enter ; for were this accident to happen, the animal could never
revive. Sometimes a sudden change of weather takes place in the mid­
dle of winter, becoming so warm that the snow is melted from the
ground. On such occasions these animals, by the action of the heat,
have been roused from their torpidness, and have issued forth from their
dens, greatly disappointed, perhaps, to find themselves waked up a month
or two too soon.
If the same temperature could be preserved, summer and winter, in the
dens where these animals repose, they might be kept in the torpid state
for hundreds of years, and then waked again to life. They need no
sustenance, because the natural involuntary secretions of the system are
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 25
suspended. There is no waste to supply—no vital energy to feed.
These experiments have been tried upon various animals. Indeed, the
same results may be produced in human beings. A place may be pre­
pared where it shall preserve the same temperature, and where light
and heat shall not penetrate, and a man in perfect health shall be con­
signed to that place, when the magnetism shall soon leave his system,
and he become insensible, where he may be preserved for any number
of years; and on removing him, he shall again wake to life. There
is in fact at this moment in Germany a female in this condition, where
she has remained already three years. This woman was condemned
to be executed. A physician there, desirous of trying the experiment,
made application to the proper authorities, and was told that if he could
succeed in keeping the woman in a state of insensibility for the period
of five years, and then wake her to life and consciousness, she should
be pardoned. Accordingly he built a room of granite, seven feet square,
at one end of his dwelling, and covered this with earth four feet deep.
He approaches this room by a subterraneous passage from the cellar of
his dwelling, so as to prevent the admission of light and heat. The fe­
male was placed in this room, where she lay about forty-eight hours
before she became insensible, and before all vital action ceased. She
has been in this state upwards of three years, and she maintains the
same appearance that she did on her first becoming insensible,—no
signs of decomposition having taken place; and indeed decomposition
cannot take place so long as the same temperature is preserved in the
room where she is. At the end of the five years, he will restore her
again to consciousness and animation by removing her from her con­
finement.
If this experiment succeeds—and I have no doubt it will, for we have
seen the same phenomenon produced in animals, and the cause is the
same in the one case as the other—instead of executing criminals who
are condemned to death, they may be consigned to this state of insensi­
bility and temporary death for any number of years, when, on awaking
them to life, doubtless, it would have a tendency to completely reform
them. A serious consideration of the situation in which they had so
long lain, shut out from the scenes of life, and wholly unconscious even
of existence itself, during the period, musy have a salutary effect upon
their after life and conduct. Such an one might in truth exclaim—“ I
was once dead and am alive again,—I will return to my Father’s house,
and confess that I have sinned against heaven, and in his'sight.” How­
ever, we will not speculate upon this subject. Two years more will de­
cide whether we are correct or not.
LECTURE THIRD.
In our last Lecture it was shown— 1st, that Animal Magnetism, or
beat, exists in the sympathetic nerves, and is the cause of all involuntary
motion and sensation in the system; 2d, that electricity is the agent by
which all voluntary motion is produced ; 3d, that the magnetic sleep is
26 LECTURES ON CLA1RMATIVEN ESS
produced by divesting the system ofall its magnetism, with the exception
of enough to carry on vital action; and 4th, it was shown that by the
same means the torpid state is produced in animals.
Sixth. We are now to speak of the production of Magnetism and
Electricity.
Magnetism—and I am not here treating on that branch of science
which refers to the properties of the magnet—is that subtle fluid we
commonly term caloric, or heat. This fluid is produced from the mag­
netic influence of the sun upon the earth and planets. It originates from
the sun. Mr. Duncan Bradford, in his “ Wonders of the Heavens,”
says:—
“ It has lately been discovered, that the rays of heat, or caloric, are
distinct from each other ; for it can be demonstrated that some rays from
the sun produce heat which have no power of communicating light or
color. The greatest heat is found in the red rays, the least in the violet
rays; and in a space (in the solar spectrum) beyond the red rays, where
there is no light, the temperature is the greatest. The rays of the sun
have also been found to produce different chemical effects. The white
muriate of silver is blackened in the violet ray, in the space of fifteen se­
conds, though the red ray will not produce the same effect in less than
twenty minutes. Phosphorus is kindled in the vicinity of the red ray,
and extinguished in the vicinity of the violet. The solar light, there­
fore, consists of three different orders of rays, one producing color, a se­
cond producing heat, and a third chemical effects.
“ The opacity of the interior of the globe of the sun is no reason why
it may not act a part in the production or preservation of the solar heat;
on the contrary, it appears highly probable and consistent with the dis­
coveries^ that the dark nucleus of the sun is the magazine from which
its heat is discharged; while the luminous or phosphorescent mantle
which the heat freely pervades, is the region where its light is genera­
ted. Herschell’s own experiments assure us, that invisible rays, which
have the power of heating, and which are totally distinct from those
which produce light, are actually emitted from the sun ; and that lumi­
nous rays, incapable of producing heat, are discharged from the same
source. These facts, therefore, not only confirm the theory which we
have stated, but receive in return, from that theory, the most satisfactory
explanation. The invisible rays, which pervade every part of the solar
spectrum, formed by a prism, and which extend beyond its red extremi­
ty, are emitted from the opaque nucleus, and therefore excite no sensa­
tion of light on the human retina ; while the colored rays, which form
the spectrum itself, are discharged from the luminous matter that encir­
cles the solid nucleus, and therefore endowed with the properties of illu­
mination.
“ Hence it is easy to assign the reason why the light and heat of the
sun are^ apparently always in a state of combination, and why the one
emanation cannot be obtained without the other. The heat projected
from the dark body, and the light emitted from the luminous atmosphere,
are thrown offin lines diverging in every possible direction ; so that the
two radiations must be uniformy intermingled, and, as in a stream flow­
ing from two contiguous sources, the heat must always accompany its
kindred element. We find the invisible heat of the sun existing sepa­
rately from its light, and Dossessing a degree of refrangibility less than
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 27
the least refrangible rays of the prismatic spectrum. Light has like­
wise been found separate from heat; and though it may be imagined that
this arises from the extreme tenuity ofthe light, yet, when the light ofthe
moon is concentrated by powerful burning mirrors, we ought certainly to
have expected that the heat, if any did exist, would be appreciable by
delicate thermometers. Every attempt, however, to detect heat in the
rays of the moon, has completely failed ; and we are entitled to presume
that a greater proportion of heat than of light has been absorbed by that
luminary. If light and heat, then, be two different substances, endowed
with different chemical and physical properties, is it not unphilosophical
to suppose that they are emitted from the same source, when we have ac­
tually two different regions in the sun, to which we can, with more pro­
priety, refer their origin?"
Atmospheric Electricity is produced from caloric, or heat. All the
phenomena of electricity can be produced by heat. These fluids, when
developed, are repulsive to each other, and become the agents of all mo­
tion in the universe.
Electricity pervades the whole of the earth’s atmosphere, and per­
forms all the mutual actions of nature. It is the main agent in the
growth of trees and plants—the cause of the rain, and of the refreshing
dew. The heat which accumulates upon the surface of the earth during
the day, repulses the electric fluid to the upper regions : this fluid car­
ries with it vaporous particles, which form themselves into clouds, and
at length become so dense that they are attracted again near to the
earth, when the electric fluid is gradually dissipated by the heat or mag­
netism which it again comes in contact with, and the watery vapor, be­
coming disengaged, falls in drops of rain. These drops, however,
still contain a considerable quantity of the electric fluid, which is
dispersed through the atmosphere, and which accounts for the refreshing
cooln&ss of the air after a shower. By the same agency is produced the
dews of the night. The heat prevents the particles of vapor, which float
in the air, from falling to the earth during the day, these particles being
insolated with electricity; but when the sun has sunk behind the west­
ern hills, and the heat occasioned by its rays, is dissipated, these parti­
cles, with the electricity they contain, are attracted to the earth, moisten­
ing its herbage, and producing the coolness of the evening. For the
same cause clouds always sail highest in a hot day. All evaporation is
produced by the combined agency of these two fluids.
Electricity and Magnetism keep the planets in their spheres, and cause
their revolutions around the sun. The sun is the great centre of the so­
lar system. It is the source of light and heat. It is magnetic, and natu­
rally attracts all bodies to its centre. Were, it not for the great body of
electricity that encircles the.earth, it would be attracted into the sun. But
electricity is repulsive to magnetism : this repulsive power of the electric
fluid is a barrier to the sun’s magnetic or centripetal power, and gives
the earth its centrifugal force, and, consequently, its motion round the
sun. The same also with the other bodies.
There is a strong attraction existing between the moon and our pla­
net ; but the former contains a greater body of magnetism, or heat, than
the latter, and the electricity of the earth arrests the attractive tendency,
and gives the moon its motion round the earth.
Astronomers have never been able to account satisfactorily, on any na-
28 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
tural principles, for the centrifugal force of the planets ; and hence it has
been ascribed to the immediate power of the Supreme Being. But if it
required this immediate power at first to give the planets their centrifu­
gal force and motion round the sun, it requires also that this power
should be constantly exercised, to prevent their being attracted into the
sun. The centripetal power of the sun must be continually balanced by
a centrifugal force of the planets, or, in time, the whole solar system
would become wrecked and disorganized. Mr. Burritt, in his “ Geogra­
phy of the Heavens,” says :—
“ Every planet moves in its orbit with a velocity varying every instant,
in consequence of two forces ; one tending to the centre of the sun, and
the other in the direction of a tangent to its orbit, arising from the primi­
tive impulse given at the time it was launched into space. The former
is called its centripetal, the latter, its centrifugal force. Should the
centrifugal force cease, the planet would fall to the sun by its gravity ;
were the sun not to attract it, it would fly off from its orbit in a straight
line.
“ By the time a planet has reached its aphelion, or that point of its
orbit which is farthest from the sun, his attraction has overcome its
velocity, and draws it towards him with such an accelerated motion, that
it at last overcomes the sun’s attraction, and shoots past him ; then gradu­
ally decreasing in velocity, it arrives at the perihelion, when the sun’s at­
traction again prevails.”
■The above theory of the gravitation of the heavenly bodies is that
now universally received by astronomers. They are agreed in ascribing
the centrifugal force of the planets in the first instance to the Supreme
Being, (and to him all worlds owe not only their motion, but origin,) but
they have failed to point out to us those agents by which that force was
first given. Motion is the result of certain fixed laws, established by the
Deity. In seeking for those laws we are only approaching one step nearer
to him who is the Author and Creator of all things. Now, astronomers
have not only left us in the dark relative to the laws by which the Deity
gave projectile force to the bodies that move in the regions of space, but
they nave, it seems to me, failed in many particulars to account for the
gravitation of those bodies without a constant miracle every moment
taking place,—or, in other words, without the constant exercise of infinite
power.
It is said that centrifugal force was given the planets when launched
into the regions of space from the hands of the Supreme Being.
Their attractive power was acquired at the same instant. The sun being
the larger, body and the centre of the solar system, the tendency of the
planets would be towards him ; but the centrifugal impetus, at first given
them, so nicely counterbalances this attraction, that they can neither fly
off nor rush together, but move around him in their present order and
harmony. But if this were so, the distances of the planets from the
sun, and from each other, would ever be invariably the same, and their
motions would of necessity be uniform and regular.
Suppose, for instance, the earth to have been ninety-five millions of
miles from the sun when motion was first given it,—and suppose this
distance to have been that point in space where the centrifugal and cen­
tripetal forces were precisely adjusted and balanced ; the same distance
would have been constantly maintained between them in the revolutions
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 29
ol the one round the other, and the orbit of the earth would be perfectly
spherical, instead of elliptical, as it now is. And it would maintain the
same velocity, without being either retarded or accelerated, which it had
acquired at the time when the two powers were at first balanced. But
the reverse is the fact.
Again. The theory that,—“ By the time a planet has reached its
aphelion, or that point of its orbit which is farthest from the sun, his
attraction has overcome its velocity, and draws it towards him with such
an accelerated motion, that it at last overcomes the sun’s attraction, and
shoots past him ; then gradually decreasing in velocity, it arrives at the
perihelion, when the sun’s attraction again prevails ’’—has its difficulties.
If the sun’s attractive force at any time overpowered the earth’s centrifu­
gal, so as to bring the same with an accelerated motion towards him,
the centrifugal, from that moment, would decrease in the same ratio,
and the earth would rush upon the sun. The attractive power which
produced the quickened velocity would constantly increase the nearer
the two bodies approached each other, and that accelerated motion could
never impart centrifugal force sufficient to break or overpower that at­
traction, and cause the earth to rush past the sun for any indefinite period
of time. On the contrary, it would continue to move around him with
increased velocity, lessening its orbit, until it was finally lost in that
immense body.
But then it is said that it is the increased velocity itself which gives
the centrifugal force, or tendency to fly off] so that by this means the
attractive or centripetal force is overpowered, and the earth thus regains
the distance which it had lost when in its perihelion. But is not the
increased velocity caused by increased attraction ?—and can that attrac­
tion give force to any body sufficient to overpower itself, and cause it to
travel an equal distance beyond, or to regain its aphelion at the same
point in the heavens ? This, it seems to me, is utterly impossible.
The increased velocity and tendency of the earth towards the sun,
would b&in proportion, or just equal to the attractive force that had
caused it, and it would be no greater than this: hence, in order to over­
power that attractive force which is now held, the earth would require
an impetus given it besides that which it originally had, and that which
was given it by attraction.
Now, where shall we look for this required additional force? To the
Creator ? If so, by what means does he impart it ? The answer to this
question has already been given :— caloric and electricity are the agents
employed.
Let us suppose for a moment that the planets are struck from the solar
system, and that the earth is arrested in its annual revolutions, and sud­
denly becomes stationary. The first motion that would be given it would
be directly towards the sun, through its strong attractive power upon the
earth. And unless there were strong opposing power created upon the
latter, it would eventually be attracted into the former. Now this oppos­
ing force does actually exist in the great body of electricity which
surrounds the earth, and is produced from the rays of heat which is
sent ofF from the sun. This fluid, when sufficiently developed, would
become repulsive to the great body of magnetism or heat contained in
the sun, and thus acquire a resisting force sufficient to counterbalance the
30 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
attractive force of the two bodies for each other, and give the earth the
course which it now performs around the sun.
The theory we have here presented is greatly confirmed by the course
of comets. These bodies are seen often going in a direct line for the
sun ; but when they have approached to that body within certain dis­
tances, they have been known to diverge, and recede directly from it.
The rays of heat from the sun, as they near him, create or develope a
sufficient quantity of the electric fluid to give them a repulsive force,
when their motion is changed and they recede with unparalleled velocity
from the point of attraction.
The comet of 1680 approached within 130,000 miles of the sun. In
that part of its orbit which was nearest the sun, it flew with the amaz­
ing swiftness of l,000,000miles in an hour. It was then exposed
to a heat twenty-seven thousand times greater than the solar heat
at the earth. This intensity of heat exceeds, several thousand times,
that of red-hot iron, and indeed all the degrees of heat we are able to
produce. This intense heat must have produced a vast quantity of
electricity, which gave the comet its centrifugal force, and caused it to re­
cede with such velocity. Comets themselves, it is generally allowed,
contain more heat than other celestial bodies, and from this heat is pro­
duced much of the electric fluid, and it is seen in the vaporous atmos­
phere which surrounds them, and in what is commonly termed the tail
of comets, extending sometimes for many millions of miles. It is this
great quantity of electricity which is constantly produced from the heat
of these bodies that completely overpowers the sun’s centripetal force,
and causes them to remove wholly beyond his attractive influence;—
otherwise, when they once come within that attractive power, their orbits
would be fixed in that relative distance, and they would move around
the sun with the constancy and the regularity of the planets themselves.
This view of the subject accounts for another singular phenomenon
which we witness with regard to comets. The luminous train of a
comet usually follows it, as it approaches the sun, and goes before it,
when the comet recedes from the sun. Allowing the luminous train to
be electricity, as this fluid and heat are repulsive to each other, the phe­
nomenon just named would of necessity occur.
Now from this fact we derive the most positive evidence that an in­
creased repulsive force, is communicated to the comet, when in its peri­
helion, which it neither acquired from the attraction of the sun, nor from
the motion it had before it came within that attractive influence. If the
increased centrifugal force was effected by attraction, the luminous train
would maintain its position in the rear of the comet when receding from
the sun; the same as when approaching him. But the fact of its chang­
ing its entire position, and always keeping on the side of the comet di­
rectly opposite to the sun, proves that the whole is effected by a strong
repulsive force existing between the two bodies.
From the fact that the electric fluid increases when the comet is in its
perihelion, extending its train of electricity by means of the intense heat
sent off from the sun from which it is evolved, we might expect, when
the earth was in its perihelion, to witness a similar phenomenon. And
a like phenomenon is witnessed in what is termed the aurora borealis,
or northern lights.
LECTURES ON CLAIRMAT1VENES9. 31
“ The eartn being in its perihelion about the first of January, and in
its aphelion about the first of July, we are three millions of miles nearer
the Sun in winter than in midsummer.” The rays of the sun then
falling vertically upon the southern regions of the globe, create a greater
proportion of heat, from which is evolved a greater quantity of electri­
city, which being thrown offby repulsion to the northern regions, and
accumulating in a more dense body at the vicinity of the Pole, not only
presents, by its frequent variations, the luminous aspect in the heavens,
which we denominate the Aurora Borealis, but also accounts for what
has never yet been adequately accounted for— the extreme rigor of our
winters. Electricity is cold, and of course is repulsive to magnetism, or
heat. Hence but a very little heat exists in the northern regions, it being
repulsed by the great body of electricity there. The electric fluid in­
creases in quantity also, the further you ascend into the atmosphere,
being repulsed by the heat upon the earth’s surface.
Were not this subject in a measure foreign to the object of these Lec­
tures, I should be pleased to give these interesting facts a further inves­
tigation ; but inasmuch as it is, I must content myself with what has
already been offered—my design having been to illustrate the fact, that
the magnetic and electric fluids are the agents employed by the Creator,
in causing all motion in the universe. But, since I have given you the
Clairvoyant’s theory on the motions of the heavenly bodies, I must be
permitted to close the same by giving his description of the planet
Saturn—its inhabitants—the formation of its rings, &c.
On the evening that the experiment was made, before he was put to
sleep, in order to ascertain whether he had any correct knowledge of the
planet, I put to him this q u e s t i o n ‘
“ Jackson, can you tell me any thing
about Saturn?" “ About wh«<2" said he. “ Saturnf said I. “ No sir,”
said he “ I don’t know him.” From this answer I was convinced that
he was’entirely ignorant of the subject of my inquiry, and that he under-,
stood me to refer to some person. Indeed, I know that he is naturally
ignorant of astronomy, and of all other sciences; for being born of poor,
but respectable, parents, and having been early apprenticed to the shoe­
making business, the only schooling he ever had was five months. Pri­
vate instructors he never had,—and he has frequently told me that he ne­
ver read a book on any science.
After he was thrown into the trance state, (clairvoyance,) 1 requested
him to o-o and take a view of Saturn, and tell me what he saw there.
He immediately made a movement of the head in the direction of the
planet and was absent in mind about ten minutes. When he returned,
he spoke as f o l l o w s “ O, how beautiful! Did you see those splendid
rino-s ? Now I will tell you how they are formed, for astronomers have
never yet understood the matter. .
“ In the first place, the planet itself is very beautiful. 1 he air there, is
more clear and serene than it is on the other planets. The three gases,
oxvgen hydrogen and carbon, which compose in part Saturn’s atmos­
phere form the two rings. The first, or inner ring, is more brilliant
than the outer one—both have seven different colors. The oxygen ex­
tends from the planet to where you see the first ring formed, and no far­
ther It beiim- separated there from the gases above, the rays of light
from the sun falling upon it at the point of division, makes it very bril­
liant, so that it can be seen from the earth, through telescopes, in the
32 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
form of a broad, beautiful and variegated band, extending quite round
the planet. It is the upper extremity of the oxygen gas, and the falling
of the rays of light upon it, that produces this splendid phenomenon,
which has long been the admiration and wonder of the world. The
hydrogen and carbonic gases extend from the planet to where you see
the second or outer ring. These gases being composed of different sub­
stances from the other, and not being so clear, when acted upon by the
light, at their outer extremity, render the second ring, which they there
form, less brilliant than the other.
“ The other planets have their rings like Saturn, being formed in the
same way—but the gases not being so pure on the other planets, you are
not able to discover them, though I can always see them when 1am in
this state. The moon has its rings, and you sometimes see them. They
call them 1Circles round the moon’ and say, ‘it is a sign of a storm.’
The earth also has two rings, and if you were at the moon you could at
times see them. The oxygen extends from the earth’s surface seven
miles,—there, is the formation of the first ring. The carbon and hydro­
gen gases extend still further, and at their termination the second ring is
formed. When you see what is called a double rainbow, you see a
likeness of these very rings; and they are, in color, a fac-simile of
Saturn’s.
“ Do you know that Saturn is inhabited ? The people there are very
different from the people on this earth. They are very beautiful, and
more intellectual—they have very high foreheads, and their symmetry is
perfect. Their skin is so clear and transparent that you can almost see
the blood as it circulates through the veins. There is no sin there;
they are unacquainted with strife and bitterness,—they worship God
with willing hearts, all as one. There is no sickness there, because
they obey the organic laws of their nature. They live nine or ten hun­
dred years, and die of old age, when the system has worn itself out.”
LECTURE F OURT H.
In this Lecture we are to speak, 1st, of the production of Animal Mag­
netism ; 2d, of Clarmativeness; and 3d, of Clairvoyance.
[The whole of this Lecture was given by the Clairvoyant, word for
word, as I penned it from his own mouth at the time.]
Animal Magnetism is a modification of caloric or atmospheric magnet­
ism. When this fluid enters the system by the lungs, and through the
pores and glands of the flesh, the action of the physical system so chan­
ges and modifies it, that it becomes of a more subtle and refined nature,
so that it is fitted for its office in the sympathetic nerves, producing sen­
sation and all the involuntary motions of the body, and transmitting these
sensations to the brain. At the brain, it undergoes another change or
modification. The volitive and magnetic action of the brain so changes
this fluid, that it takes the most subtle and refined form that is capable°of
being produced, when it composes the substance of mind itself. Mind is
magnetism. It is produced, or rather formed in the brain, by means of
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATI VENESS. 33
the five senses, as wc showed in our first Lecture. It is then life—pure
intelligence—that breath of God which lie breathed into man when he
became a living soul.
The mind which is tints produced, composes what, in our former re­
marks, was termed the larger mind. This spiritual principle is endow­
ed with the power of producing, through the exercise of iis own volition
or. will, a fluid, which was denominated the lesser mind, and which we
shall here term Animal Electricity. It is the most refined of all the
electric fluids, and is the agent of all muscular and voluntary motion.
The utter impracticability of mind moving matter, without an ade­
quate intermediate agency, has often been demonstrated. And what
other agency can the mind employ than that of which we have spoken?
We know that when we will to move the body or limbs, they obey us.
Is not this fact evidence sufficient that the will itself has the power of
dispensing that force, or agent, which is adequate to the moving of the
muscle, and consequently of the body?
That there is such a fluid as animal electricity, is proved by the tor­
pedo, or electric eel. so called. This animal can at pleasure paralyze a
limb at some distance, and even produce instant death, in the smaller
animals. Now, if this fish can at will discharge a current of electricity,
which produces these effects, is there anything more inarfellons in the
fact, that the human mind is capable of discharging, through the exer­
cise of its own will, a like fluid, to subserve the purposes of motion and
locomotion of body? Certainly not.
I am aware that this subject is exceedingly difficult of satisfactory in­
vestigation. Most men require ocular demonstration of a thing before
they will consent to believe it; but this is a subject, among-many others,
which will not admitmf such demonstration, L however, have this oc-
cular demonstration whilst I am in tire clairvoyant state, for I can see
this fluid, as it is discharged by the will into the cerebellum, passing
from thence along the muscular nerves, contracting them, and thus pro­
ducing voluntary motion, I can also see the magnetic fluid which ex­
ists in the sympathetic nerves,-—it is very brilliant, and lights up to my
view the whole system, so that 1 can see every part of the animal frame.
I can also see the mind itself, which is still more refined and luminous;—
I can see every motion of the mind, and that is the reason why I am
able to tell you all your thoughts,—thought is simply the motion of the.
mind.
Now there is not much magnetic fluid in the sympathetic nerves of
my system, because it has been taken away by magnetizing me, and that
is the reason that there is no sensation or feeling in my limbs. If you
should inflict any injury upon my flesh, I should not be sensible of
any pain, because there is no fluid to transmit that sensation to the brain.
You see that the five senses are entirely closed to all external impres­
sions. I neither see nor hear now through the natural organs. My
eyes are now closed and bandaged, (which was the fact,) and yet I see
every part of your system. \o u may stop my ears, and it will make no
difference with regard to my hearing. When } am in this state, no
impressions are made upon my brain through the natural organs. In
this state, my previous developments are not only enlarged, but all my
mental faculties are set in perfect action. I possess the power of extend­
ing- my vision throughout all space,—can see things past, present, and to
34 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS
come. I have now arrived to the highest degree of knowledge which
the human mind is capable of acquiring. I would always like to re­
main in this state, for here I am separated from the world, and am per­
fectly happy. I am in the spirit, as was he of old. When the body is
cast off, I shall be as I now am.
2d. I am to speak of Clairmativeness, or the different state of magnet­
ism.
Clairmativeness is a compound word, and literally signifies— clearly
reversed. I have given this new word, and applied it to the subject be­
cause it is significant of the magnetic state, and because there is no word
in English which is expressive of this science. The science is new,
and therefore demands a new name.
The minds of magnetized persons are completely reversed. If you
place the hand of a magnetized person upon a table, and tell him he
cannot raise it, you will discover that in his endeavors to do so, he is
pressing down, though he imagines he is trying to raise it. Tell him
to bear down, and he will immediately lift the hand from the table. Thus
the mind being reversed, he calls up, down—and down, up. But this
experiment must be done by a third person, and not by the magne-
tizer ; i. e. the tnagnetizer shall tell the subject that he cannot raise his
hand, when he will bear down,—but if a third person tells him to press
down, he will then raise it up. The best method of trying this experi­
ment is, to place the hand of the subject against your own and tell him
he cannot remove it, and you will find he is pressing against yours.
There are, properly, four magnetic states. In the first, no particular
phenomena are witnessed, only that the external organs being in some
measure divested of their ordinary share of magnetism, a feeling of
dullness pervades the system. Persons in this state lose none of their
faculties, but are susceptible to all external impressions. They have
also the full power of muscular action,—and if nearly situated between
the first and second states, they are inclined to happy feelings.
In the second state, the magnetic sleep is produced. They still retain
their intellectual faculties, but are divested of all muscular power. The
pupil of the eye expands, and the natural organ of vision refuses to act
on the brain. The membrane and tympanic cavity of the car expand,
and refuse to perform action. The extremities are also somewhat cold.
In the latter part of this state, all sensation and feeling are destroyed in
the system, so that any surgical operation can be performed without
giving pain.
Third State. The ear is not entirely closed to sound in the first part
of the third state. They can hear indistinctly—possess the power of
speech, and partly of muscular action. About the middle of this state,
the ear is completely closed, and all impressions made upon the brain,
‘from external objects, are at an end. They are then placed in a state of
un conscious existence, so far as the external world is concerned. Divested
of their ordinary share of magnetism, they possess just enough to per­
form vital action.
In this state there is a Strong sympathy existing between the Operator
and his Subject. The chain of sympathy which connects the mind of
the Operator with that of his Subject, is animal electricity,—the same
fluid which is the agent of all muscular motion. It is through the
agency of this fluid that magnetic sleep is effected or induced. The
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 35
Operator sits down with the determination to put his Subject to sleep .—
all the powers of his mind are concentrated to this object. His will
being exercised to this point, the electric fluid passes from his own brain
and nerves to the brain and system of his patient, and forms between
the two the chain of sympathy. The one then is completely subject to
the control of the other ; and in this manner you may easily account for
all the phenomena witnessed in the sympathetic somnambulist.
Fourth State— Perfect Vision. The chain of sympathy is now
broken, and the Subject’s mind is completely his own—no longer subject
to, or controlled by, that of the Operator.
Under this head of our subject we are to notice a most mysterious
phenomenon, not till lately developed ;—the phenomenon that the mind
of man can be clothed with the power and faculty of unclouded reason.
It is the highest evidence of the original, fundamental truths of Chris­
tianity, delivered from the same source to unbelieving and sceptical
men, and which now should spread a mantle of deep shame for such
sceptical neglect. The great pace of intellect which has evidently been
seen taking rapid strides from one generation to another, has not wiped
away this foul scepticism, but the transic state, clairvoyance, is still looked
upon, with all the pride, and pomp, and bigotry, of by-gone ages, as be­
ing wrapped in mystery, and is dropped in the darkness of preconceived
fanaticism. Hence, no scientific investigation has ever been resorted to
in order to solve the mystery. Hence, too, it is clothed in the same mys­
tery still, and is looked upon, as it was in the days of the apostles, by
many, as an effect of satanic agency. And the mind is more willing to
receive it as such than it is to throw off the mystery and go into the
search for the primary cause.
The primary cause has been, in the former Lectures, found out and
explained. All the mystery of man’s physical existence,—the structure
of his own frame ana mind, has been solved,—and in doing this, we
have found the key to animal magnetism. And in solving the mystery
of animal magnetism, we have found another key, which unlocks the
mystery of clairvoyance.
The medium through which the mind exists is that of electronomy.
It has before been shown, that when the Operator’s mind is positive,
the Operative’s is negative. The chain of sympathy existing between the
positive and negative minds, through the medium of animal electricity,
makes the Subject a sympathetic somnambulist. In this state, every
contraction of the muscular nerves is produced through the investi­
gation of the magnetizer. And when the connecting chain is not so
strongly existing in sympathy, he becomes a more perfect somnambulist.
The transic state, clairvoyance, is produced when the Subject’s mind
becomes completely positive. In this state the will of the Operator has
no power or control over his mental capacities. Consider, for a mo­
ment, the condition of one so situated : every physical organ is complete­
ly shut from all impressions from the external world. Nothing is then
left but the created mind. It is, then, like a stone that is thrown into the
water ■
—the wave from the origin swells, extends, expands, until it
reaches the distant shore. The mind is so situated that it expands, ex­
tends, reaches and searches, until its wave has battered against the
regions of space ! It is imponderable, immaterial, immortal! It is the
same that exists over, through, and in you all! If you should take the
wings of the morning, and fly to the utmost bounds of the universe, you
36 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
have begun onlv at the commencement of its existence! It is then that
the mind becomes clothed with the ever-pervading infinite mind! Such
is the condition of the transic Clairvoyant.
The simple action of the heart, when viewed, affords a beautiful illus­
tration of the flight of spiritual mind. The heart beats, and its effect is
instantaneously felt at the remotest extremity of the system. It illus­
trates the instantaneous expansion of the mind, carried through the me­
dium of the gifted spirit.
The sight of the Clairvoyant, when the mind is first launched from its
nidulated state, is described as being a beautiful, great and expansive
light, above the glory and brightness of the sun. This expands
throughout the regions of space.
The sight, so called, is not sight literally; but it is the knowledge ;—
which knowledge belongs to every child and offspring of the ever.perva­
ding, and rightly exalted S u pr em e O m n ip o t e n c e .
The transic Clairvoyant, when in that state, addresses the world
through the medium of the organs of speech. It is designedly so, that
he may hold familiar conversation. Were it not thus, the communica­
tion which he holds with the external world would only be as an echo
of a sound. But instead of that, he is able to communicate what know­
ledge is necessary to be revealed to the external world through the me­
dium of the C heat M in d , acting upon his mind, and that familiarly,
through the organs of speech.
A Clairvoyant does not literally see, but knows. But when speaking
to people whom ho knows are ignorant of such existing truths, speaks
familiarly, in order to be understood. He sees by the understanding
acted upon by the G r e a t P o sitive M in d , heretofore explained. His
knowledge is vast, beyond conception.
He often states that he is not permitted to do such and such things :—
he is governed by the dictates of reason—knows what is good to com­
municate, and hence, communicates what is good. This accounts for the
feet, that he sometimes refuses to gratify the idle curiosities of the people.
These truly wonderful, existing and eternal truths, will afford an an­
chor of sure hope to the benighted mind of the sceptic. It throws new
light where darkness now reigns—and is the clearest evidence, design­
edly so, of immortality to the dark and hidden spirit of man. When in
the state that I now am, I am master of the general sciences—can speak
all languages—impart instructions upon those deep and hidden things in
nature, which the world have not been able to solve, as I have done in
these Lectures—can name the different organs in the human system—
point out their office and functions—and, as I have often done, tell the
nature, cause and symptoms of disease, and prescribe the remedies that
will effect the cure. These things should cause us to rejoice with ex­
ceeding great joy, with the evidence and assurance of being so blest from
above. This is opening the door to a revolution which will lead to a
new era—a field never before espied,—paths that are untrodden. The
door opening at the explanation and discovery of the mode of our exist,
ence—and a glance through that door, opened to our view a strange,
serious sight—that of Animal Magnetism! The sight called for an ex­
planation, and at the very threshold we dared to ask, “ Is it so ?” And
calmly answered, !t It is true !” This is the commencement of the new
era. A further sight of investigation unfolded a new mystery to our
view. The investigation of that mystery, opens to our view a brighter
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS. 37
and more luminous prospect. The prospect and untrodden paths lead,
through the medium of the last investigation, unto glory, honor, immor­
tality and eternal life! 1 would then say to all—hoist the flood-gates of
unclouded reason, and let them pore over these serious, solemn and eter­
nal truths.
The mystery is solved—the door is open—the broad field is before us.
Let us all improve the time allotted us, to enter more fully into those
blessings, and to participate in the blessings arising therefrom.
A P P E N D I X -
In subjoining a few remarks to the foregoing Lectures, I respond to
an urgent call, which is almost universally made upon me, for some ac­
count of the Clairvoyant, and a brief statement of the circumstances un­
der which, from time to time, his disclosures and experiments have been
made. In this, however, I shall give only a very few statements, as a
specimen of the many which I could present.
Mr. Davis is well known here—he has resided, for the first 12 years
of his life, at Hyde Park, a place five miles distant from this. Since that
period, a term of about six years, he has resided in this place. He is a
shoemaker by trade, and has neither been favored with privileges by
which to obtain an education, nor has his mind at all been turned to the
investigation of scientific matters. These statements are capable of the
most satisfactory confirmation. I have said that Mr D. is not an edu­
cated man, nor has he now, in his wakeful state, the least idea of those
sublime and lucid representations which he gives in the Clairvoyant state,
only as some one who hears his revelations may describe them unto him.
I have been located in this place seven months. Previous to my set­
tlement here, I have for many years been a believer in Mesmerism, but
a very decided unbeliever in Clairvoyance. But the frequent attestations
which I have witnessed as given by my neighbor, Mr, D., have con­
vinced me of the truth of this new and wonderful development of mind,
•
—its powers in Clairvoyance. Experiments have been so varied and
multiplied, that I can no longer remain an unbeliever, The truth is irre­
sistible, and I am compelled to believe it.
At the first of my observations, Mr. D, examined my own system—
telling me very accurately where a disease with which I had long been
afflicted, was located—its cause—describing also the pain which I suffer­
ed from it. and the weakness occasioned by it, most perfectly. Further:
he prescribed medicine for me which cured my disease, and from which
I am now perfectly free. He also gave me a phrenological examination,
speaking of a peculiarity in the arrangement of the organs, which others
had named, and which, with the general representation, he explained
most satisfactorily.
I next witnessed his examination of a young lady. He described her
condition perfectly, as was acknowledged at the time—pointing out the
seat of her disease and pain, designating the different organs by their
technical or scientific names, and locating every part of the system which
38 LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENESS.
he had occasion to name, with the most astonishing readiness and pro­
v in c e the examinations named above, I have witnessed his examina­
tion of some 70 or 80 persons, the seat of whose diseases and pains, to­
gether with their causes, symptoms, &c., he has described with equal
readiness and truth—many of which persons were brought in before
him after he was put to sleep, and of whom he had no previous know­
ledge. Indeed, there can be no reasonable doubt that the human sys­
tem is transparent before him when he is in the Clairvoyant state.
At the time of my examination, as above alluded to, I requested Mr.
Davis to go to the house of Mr. A. P. Spooner, in New Portland, M e—a
distance of some 500 miles at least, to examine his house, describe his
family, &c. He gave an accurate description of the house from cellar
to garret, speaking in the outset of the unusually tall chimney, and
then proceeding to a very definite representation of the rooms, and a
most accurate and minute description of the various articles of furniture
within them—pointing out even the number of pictures in a certain room.
He described also Mr. Spooner and wife, and a child of adoption with
them—stating their height, size, complexion, & c.; and most correctly did
he describe the disease with which Mr. S. had for some years been trou­
bled, stating that it was occasioned by injuring the spinal chord when
lifting a heavy burden, some three years previous to the time of this
examination. He described also other houses in the place, recognizing
and pointing out my portraiture in a certain room, and making many
other most truthful representations altogether too numerous and minute
to mention in this account.
Among the many other instances of his power in describing distant
objects and events which I witnessed, I would speak of his visit to Eng­
land. Mr. Wm. Brown, of this place, feeling anxious about his wife
and child, who were on a visit to their friends in England, requested
Mr. D., the Clairvoyant, to go and inquire after their health and welfare.
He went, and returned, and informed Mr. B. that his wife and child had
been very sick—described their complaints, and said they were then re­
covering. He also gave a representation of the house in which they re­
sided—of many other things in its vicinity—speaking particularly of an
antiquated meeting-house which stood near. He stated that there were
four persons in the house at which Mrs. B. was visiting, and that one
of them appeared, from the soot upon his clothes, and from his complex­
ion, as a coal-man. For his own satisfaction, Mr. B. immediately wrote
to England, making inquiry with reference to all these items, and re­
ceived an answer confirming the entire account as given by Mr. D. A
man of the household was engaged in the coal business—the account of
the antiquated building was also true, and the wife and child had been
sick as represented above, and were convalescent at the time of Mr. D. s
examination.
As another instance which I will name, as a specimen of the powers
of the Clairvoyant, I would relate the fact that Mr. Davis, a young man
of this place, had been long absent at sea, and his friends becoming very
anxious about him, requested that Mr. D., the Clairvoyant, be requested
to go in search of him. He accordingly went, and found him at a dis­
tance of 8,000 miles. He told his precise condition: that by a fall he
had broken his leg; and that at this moment he was in a long build-
ing, confined to his bed—that he was then talking with a tall mau
LECTURES ON CLAIRMATIVENES3. 39
dressed in white pants, with a green jacket, and that he, Mr. D., was
weeping, being in conversation relative to his mother, whom he then ex­
pected never again to see. Mr. Davis, the clairvoyant, however, said
that the young man would return home again to his friends. The
young man has since returned according to the testimony of the Clair­
voyant, and he has also confirmed the entire statement of the Clairvoy­
ant. He had received the fall,—his leg was broken ; the long building
was a hospital, to which he was taken after receiving his calamity—he
had conversation with a tall man, as named above, in reference to his
mother, whom then he did not expect again to see ; and he wept on the
occasion, as testified by the Clairvoyant;—all ofwhich account can be con­
firmed to the abundant satisfaction of any inquirer. When the young
man arrived, his friends told him they knew the accident that had be­
fallen him ; at wha tdistance it occurred ; the conversation which he held
with the tall man, &c.; all of which was readily acknowledged and con­
firmed by the returning son.
I will in this place present a letter which I have received from Rev.
L. P. Rand, of Orono, Me.—a gentleman whose character for discern­
ment, candor, and integrity is not to be questioned.
O rono, May 9th, 1845.
Br. Smith—Agreeably to your request, I send you the following
statements, in reference to the mesmeric experiments which I witnessed
in Poughkeepsi'e some few weeks since, as given by Mr. Davis, the
Clairvoyant, of that place. And I would first speak of his examination
of my own person. By what power he made his discoveries, or formed
his decisions, I know not; but certain I am they were correct. He very
accurately pointed out certain difficulties of the stomach with which I
had long before been afflicted, but which the energies of my system had
resisted and thrown off, and from which I was then free. He also
pointed out certain other difficulties, which, from much exposure, I had
experienced, with such exact precision, that I could not doubt that my
system was transparent in his view. I made some inquiries, upon which
he replied that I was not diseased—that my lungs and chest were sound,
save a slight irritation upon the bronchial tubes, occasioned by much ex­
posure, and a bad cold with which I was then most manifestly afflicted.
I would further state, that I requested the Clairvoyant to go to Orono,
Me., and examine a man of my acquaintance. He went and found him,
(the name having been given,) and described him, his height, size, &c.,
and spoke also of a large scrofulous tumor on the side of his neck He
described the size, shape and appearance of the tumor very accurately
and minutely,—much more so than I could have done, although I had
frequently seen the man thus afflicted. The Clairvoyant also spoke of
the method and gave the directions by which the tumor could be removed.
Among other examinations and prescriptions which I witnessed, was
the case of a child in Poughkeepsie, afflicted with the croup. The father
of the child came into the room in much apparent excitement and anx­
iety, and requested that Mr. D., who was then in the clairvoyant state,
be requested to prescribe medicine for his child. The Clairvoyant pau­
sed for a moment, as he usually does before an effort of tne kind, and
then proceeded to prescribe as follows:—Take onions and mustard-seed,
the greater part onions, pound, mix, and lay them upon the stomach,
40 LECTURES ON CLAIRJIATIVENESS.
high np,—take also molasses two parts, heat it very hot, and add one
part of brandy:—give the child one teaspoon-full a minute until he vo-
mits. The Clairvoyant was then requested to go and look at the child,
and see how he might be at that moment. lie went, and having evi­
dently beheld him, said, yes—he is very sick ; he lies in the woman’s
lap now; he chokes very much; he is very black ; and, speaking to
the father, said, you had better go quick, the medicine I have named will
be good for him. The remedy, as prescribed, was immediately applied ;
in a short time the child vomited, as was foretold,—was relieved, and
recovered. These facts can be confirmed, to the satisfaction of any one,
by the most indubitable testimony.
And now, dear sir, having carefully and very truthfully penned the
above, I remain, with much respect, yours, &c.
llnv. G. S m ith . L. P. RAND.
I would remark in this place, that I could give very many testimo­
nies like those presented above, but I deem what I have already pre­
sented, authentic as they are, sufficient to show that Mr. Davis, when in
the clairvoyant state, has powers most wonderful and sublime; and that
his knowledge entirely surpasses the ordinary conceptions of man. In
fact, it would seem that when in this state the powers of his mind ex­
pand indefinitely, extending to every department of science and know­
ledge, grasping not only the minutest intricacies in the vegetable and
animal kingdoms, but also the vast mechanism and laws of the planetary
worlds. He seems equally familiar and at home, whether speaking of
the earth’s atmosphere, its extent, its gases, its mists and clouds, or of the
heart and its appendages, with the life-current that flows through it to
the ten thousand avenues of the human form—the same, whether giving
a botanical description of the herb of the field, explaining the forma­
tion of a dew-drop, or expounding the principles by which the fierce
comet is controlled in its fiery path ! Now, he talks of the brain, its
structure, its formations ; of the formation of mind, as acting in connec­
tion with the physical organization ; and now he speaks familiarly of the
unspeakable gifts and capacities of superior beings in the angelic state.
The sick man is brought in before him, or lie is requested to visit him,
hundreds of miles distant, and his system being transparent in his view,
he examines, detects the cause, describes the disease, and prescribes a
remedy. When he has thus pointed out the disease, he pauses for a mo­
ment, as if to look through the whole arcana of nature, then analyzes,
compounds and prescribes with the most perfect readiness and propriety.
Nor is it less astonishing, that having given long and minute prescrip­
tions, embracing a great variety of ingredients—prescriptions given with
wonderful rapidity—he should accurately remember the whole, even the
quality and quantity of the smallest article, to any number of weeks and
months afterwards, when in the transic state. His diction is free from
errors or blunders; he speaks rapidly and correctly, using words suited
to his subject,—giving the scientific name to the medicine he recom­
mends ; and converses freely and accurately in any language he has oc­
casion to use. I confess that these statements would seem to be almost
too much to publish to the world, but they are nevertheless true.
G. SMITH,
I'lLO.TKCTUS OF VO L I ME VIIL, rox 1816, OF THU
A M ER IC A N PHREI'IOl O&ICAL JOURNAL.
O- S. FOWLER, EDITOR.
To reform and perfect man—to devdope. by culture, the original capabilities and beauties of liis nature—is a
work the most arduous and exalted that can engago human intellect or effort. To do this effectually, however, liu?
nature must be k n o w n ; and since Phrenology, Physiology, and Vital M yosetism, embody his entire physi­
cal, intellectual, and moral constitution, they expound all the laws of lii.s being, all the causes and conditions of all
his happiness and misery, bo plainly that he that runs may read, and so beautifully as to excite our highest admira­
tion; thereby furnishing a true touch sioi»o by which to try every doctrine and practice of the age, of all ages—
every theory of society, every question c / morals, equity, logic, taste, and even of religious creeds and practices;
by arraigningbefore this constitution whatever appertains thereto, and approving whatever harmonizes therewith,
but condemning whatever does not. To these sciences of human nature and happiness, and their various applica­
tions, this Journal will be devoted. It will present
1. PHRENOLOGY.—Each number will analyze one of the faculties, clearly elucidate its functions, both
singly and in its combinations, and give the rule for finding its orgau, illustrated by one or more engravings, show­
ing its locality, excess, and deficiency. Each number will also contain the phreuological and physiological organi­
zation and characterof some personage distinguished for talents, virtues, or vices, illustrated with engravings. This
department will embody just that practical, m atter-of-fact view of Phrenology which amateurs require, and the
extensive practice of the Editor enables him to impart. Fully aware of the value of engravings, which speak to
the eye, anti leave an indelible impress, the Editor will illustrate it with one or more engravings in every number,
bringing to his aid hisextensive cabinet of busts, and doing his utmost to enrich its pages.
2. PHYSIOLOGY.—To know and obey those laws of life and health developed by this science, constitute*
the main basis and superstructure of talent, virtue, and happiness. Health is life, and thereon depend all our pow­
ers and pleasures, mental and physical; so that, to improve the health, is to augment and prolong life itself, and all
its capabilities and blessings. Almost completely has the connexion of mind with body—especially of different
physical conditions, as inducing their corresponding mental states—been overlooked, even by physiologists them­
selves. Mind and body being, reciprocally related, it follows that every iota of intellectual advancement and moral
progression must be accomplished by physiological improvement, especially cerebral. The truth is, our talents,
capabilities, dispositions, virtues, vices, <5cc., depend greatly upon our p h ysica l habits—upon what, when, how
much, and how, we eat, drink, exercise, breathe, sleep, live, &c.; doing which properly, would exterminate sick­
ness, and comparatively banish depravity and suffering. These, and kindred subjects, the Journal will fully pre­
sent, as well as new and important views o f tem peram ent, dependent thereon, and indices o f character furnished
thereby. This department, also, will be illustrated by engravings.
3. ANIMAL MAGNETISM, or the vital principle, is so iudissolubly connected with Phrenology and Physiolo­
gy. that neither can be prosecuted separately without groping in comparative darkness, while the lessons of in­
struction and happiness taught by all combined, are philosophical, beautiful, and rich in the highest degroe, and will
be introduced into this vol. of the Journal.
4 . THE NATURE OF WOM AN is as perfectly adapted to the happiness of mankind, as God could render t
But modern female education, fasliiou, courtship—nearly every thing appertaining to her—are effecting her ru n
with locomotive speed; inflating her vanity by gaudy trappings ; wasting her precious time, health, and even lift,
on tawdry fashion; perverting her exquisite sensibilities, and converting the beauties of her nature into playthings
—mere toys for man to sport with—or else prostituting them to the worst of human passions. To improve tlierac-%
we must begin by improving her —
by bringing out the original bean ties and capabilities of her nature. To do this,
they must be k n o w n ; and they are taught by her Phrenology and Physiology, which measure her talents, and ro-
veal her sphere and duties. To this eventful subject will portions of this volume be dedicated; nor will mothe a
as such be forgotten.
Our field is indeed the world, physical, intellectual, and moral, all ripe for the harvest, and overgrown with tare s
of uncleanness and thistles of sin. H u m a n Im provem ent a n d H appiness will be inscribed on every number, evei y
page. Those, therefore, who drop tears of sorrow over fallen man, or would aid his restoration, may perhaps do
good as effectually by circulating this Journal, as by any other means; for it will embody the seeds and the core t f
allreform.
And sinee nothing—neither the possession of any form or degree of wealth, honor, or equipage, nor even the ac­
quisition of any speeies of knowledge—can as deeply interest, or as effectually benefit the m illion, as will that
knowledge of our nature, imparted by these scionces combined, and since it is therefore most desirable that the poor
as well as the rich, the illiterate as well as the scientific, should have access to these glorious truths, this Journal will
be furnished on the following extremely low
TERMS.—It will be issued in monthly numbers of 32 or more octavo pages each, at $1 per single copy, or three
copies for 8 2 , nine copies for $5, and twenty copies, to one address, for 810. Subscriptions should be addressed,
post-paid, to S. R. W e lls , 131 Nassau St., New York.
E ditors a n d Post-M asters are au th o rized to receive subscriptions f o r the J o u r n a l E d ito rs who w ill v r tk s th e^
ournal regularly, a n d fo r w a r d papers co n ta in in g the same, sh a ll receive a copy g ra is.
mim
.ber, for distribution, will be sent gratis if desired.
^ B U S H E D AND FOR SALE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL,
B Y F O W L E R 8c W E L L S ,
CLINTON IIALL, 131 NASSAU STREET, N E W YORK,
THE AMERICAN PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL for 1646,
32 page* monthly—Edited by O. S. Fow lbr—devoid to Phre­
nology, Physiology. Physiognomy, itnd Magnetism, applied to
self-improvement, health, happiness, and human progression.
Address, post paid, Fowler & Wells, 1S1 Nassau st., N. Y.
PHRENOLOGY PROVED, 1LLUSTATED, AND APPLIED.
By O. S. F o w l e h . —A standard work, eminently practical, and
every way calculated for amateurs, giving succinct hut demon-
stnuive phoofs of phrenological science, new aud important
views of te m p eram en ts, the analysis of all the faculties, and
rules for finding their organs, the newly discovered ones inclu­
ded, and a great number and variety of the combinations of the
faculties, a subject little understood by other authors, yet form­
ing the Very git and qdintescence of the whole science, toge­
ther with the phrenological developments of several hundred pub­
lic men distinguished irv church, state, science, and art, and
closing by answering objections and showing the ulilitvof the
science. Pi». 505 dun. Pr. $1,00 or 7 for $5,00. Address, post
paid, Fowler &. W ells, 131 Nassau street, N. Y. *
EDUCATION AND SELF-IMPROVEMENT. By. O. S.
F o w le r.—Volume 1. applies the laws of Physiology to the
preservation and restoration of health ; points out the moat
important la w s of our being or conditions or happiness
and v ir tu e ; proves that all the physical and phrenological
Organs can be enlarged and diminished ; shows what constitutes
a good head and body, and how to make them good by telling
us how to enlarge w hat is too small, and diminish wh^t is too
large; that is, how to form and perfect our own characters and
'those of children, and now to conduct their moral tratmng and
government. To parents, and all who seek self progression in
goodness or talents, it will be found invaluable, pp. 252 ott.
MEMORY, OR INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION. By O.
S. F o w ler.—Or Vo] 11, applies these principles together with
those drawn from the analysis of the Intellectual Faculties, to
the strengthening and expanding o f the intellect ; the cultivation
o f every kind of memory; the Acquisition of Knowledge ; the
intellectual education of children including the defects ot the
present system of school and academic instruct ion, and pointing
out a “ far more excellent way.” To teachers, and all who would
augment their intellectual capacities, it will be found invalua­
ble. It can be had bound in with the preceding, or separately.
A new ami greatly improved edition will soon be published,
pp. 115, oc . Price 25 cts. Address, post paid, Fowler & Wells,
131 Nassau street, N. Y.
N. B. The two preceding Works, bound in one volume, $1,00.
children, and warn youth against some of those ruinous prac­
tices into which too many ignorantly fall, and fall a sacrifice, is
well as point out a remedy. In short, it contrasts the natural
functions of Amativeness with its perverted ones, and proffer*
suitable directions and advice touching it* proper exercise, pp.
144. Price 25 cents. Address Fowler <
fc W ells, 131 Nassau
street, N. Y.
AMATIVENESS, or Evils and Remedies of Excessive and
Perverted Sexuality—a Supplement to “ Love arid Parentage.”
pp. 72. Price 12 1-2 cents. Address as above,
RELIGION, NATURAL AND REVEALED. Hr O. 8.
Fow ler. Or, the doctrines taught, and duties required, by
Phrenology. The momentous enquiry, “ W hat is the true reli­
gion I” is answered in this work by showing what religious
creeds and practices harmonize, and what conflict, with the
nature of man as unfo'oed by this science, pp. 176, oct. Price
50 cents. Address Fowler <
& Wells, 131 Nassau street, N. V.
TEMPERANCE—Founded on Phrenology and Physiology,
probably the strongest total abstinence document to be found,
and full of important physiological and phrenological facts ai d
principles, pp 32, octavo. Price six cents. Address, post paid,
Fowler <
fc W ells, 131 Nassau street, N. Y.
TIGHT LACING, or the Evils physiologically considered of
compressing the organs of animallife, illustrated by appropriate
cuts. pp. 10, oct. Price six cents. Address Fowler «
fc W ells, 131
Nassau street, post paid.
SYNOPSIS OF PHRENOLOGY.—A pithy, multum-in-parvo
analysis of the faculties, location of their organs, and description
of their faculties in seven degrees of development, illustrated by
alK>ut fifty engravings, and designed for recording phrenological
examinations of the sizes of the organs, and to give a bird's eye
glance of this science, pp. 24, duod. Price six cents, or $4 pec
hund ed.
PHRENOLOGY APPLIED TO MARRIAGE. By L. N.
F owler—Containing much valuable suggestion touching court­
ship and marriage, matrimonial preparation, tight lacing, See.
pp. about 220. Price 25 cts.
PHRENOLOGICAL ALMANACS, from 1641 to 1846 inclu­
sive, amply illustrated wiili cuts, arid full of practical physiolo­
gical facts and information. Their phrenological matter is at
good :ts new. and just that practical, u>atter-of fact knowledge
required by amateurs, pp "354. Price fifty cents per dozen, and
sixeents each. Address, post paid, Fowler W ells, 131 Nassau
streel, N. Y,
MATRIMONY- By O. S. Fow ler.—Treated Phrenologically
and Physiologically, showing the influence of the domestic
affections o*'er the weal and wo of man ; the nature and condi­
tions of true love ; what constitutes a preparation for connubial
felicity ; how to make a proper choice of a husband or wife, and
then how to conduct courtship, and perpetuate and augment the
affections of a companion, and concluding with some important
suggestions to both sexes. Both married and single will derive
pleasure and profit from its perusal. About 35.000 copies have
been sold. pp. 107, oct. Price 25 cents. Address Fowler & Wells,
‘131 Nassau street, post paid.
HEREDITARY DESCENT. By O. S. FowxKit.—To pro­
duce i's richest harvests of pleasure and capabilities, human
improvement must begin with the germ. This requires a
knowledge of the laws of transmission. F a c ts are always most
interesting and instructive. On this subject particularly so.
And this work developes those laws which govern this depart­
ment of nature, by giving vast ranges and numbers of cases
of the descent of consumption, apoplexy, insanity, cancerous
affections, scrofula, stature, strength, longevity, family like­
nesses, virtues, vices, talents of various kinds, and large and
small organs with their corresponding faculties, throughout races,
masses,nations.families,<Lc., all classified under their respective
laws, and applied to the improvement of offspring. Parents,
and all who design to enter the parental relations, should
possess the work, and bo should tho-e who would study nature
in some of her most perfect and beautiful operations, pn. 365,
oct. Price 75 cents. Address, postpaid, Fowler & Wells, 131
Nassau street, N. Y
LOVE AND PARENTAGE. Ry O. S. F o w le r. Or m an’s
sexual relations applied to the congenital imrorement of off­
spring, including much valuable information and advice to both
sexes and all ages. Iaformaiion touching this important matter,
is imperiously demanded, and eageily sought; and should be
nrnishe-d, noL, as now-, by way of inflaming, instead of quelling,
imal desire, and in its worst forms, but by way of sanctifying
d guiding it into its legitimate and most happifymg chan-
This work will give husbands and wives information and
ons of the utmost importance as regards both their own
don, and the character and talents ot thoir prospective
SYMBOL1CALTTEAD. By L. N .F owler—Illustrating Firm ­
ness by a mule, whipped by ono man and pulled by another, but
obstinately refusing to go; Appetite by Mr. Greedy guzzling down
apple dumplings ; Benevolence by the good Samaritan, Arc., of
all the other faculties, with a s-hort definition of each. Price 20
cents. Address Fowler <
fc W ells, post paid, 131 Nassau st., N.Y.
COMBE’S PHYSIOLOGY—W ith notes by O S. F owler,
from the Iasi Edmlnirgh edition, ihe bent work extant on the
conditions of health presented in a popular form, free from tech
nicalities, and illusirat'd by engravings, pp. 320, oct. large
type, Fr. 75 Cts. Address Fowler At Weils, 131 Nassau st., N .Y .
PHRENOLOGICAL GUIDE.—Price 12 1 2 cts. pp. €4.
N. B. All the above, bound in pamphlet form, can be ordered
and sent by m ail, at the present low rates of postage as per
weight of each. Abthey are not in book stores generally, this »s
the best way of obtaining them. Editors and Postmasters are
authorized agents for the above works. Address, post paid,
Fowler & W ells, 1-31 Nassau street, N. Y.
T IIE PHRENOLOGICAL BUST, representing the organa
on one side, and the groups or classes on the other, as marked
by O. S. and L. N. Fowler. Price $1.00, packing'box'25 cents.
Nothing equals it for teaching amateurs the location of the organs,
PHRENOLOGICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL D ESCRIP­
TIONS OF CHARACTER, faults, virtues, directions for self-
rmprovement, preserving and regaining health, avoiding evil
tendencies, with salutaiy advice and information touching
occupations most suitable to talents, by Fowler W ells, at the
Phrenological Cabinet, 131 Nassau street. N. Y. Prrce, verbal,
with size of organs marked on a chart, $1,00; do. with written
character $3,00. Probably in no other way can money be spent
to equal advantage, especially For the exainina ion of chldre.n
Also, the works of Gall, Spnrzheim, Combe and Graham, can
be had at the above Cabinet
TIIE PHRENOLOGICAL CABINET, always free to visitor*,
contains nearly a thousand heads or skulls of individuals re­
markable for talents, virtues, vices, or idiosyncrasies. Its proprie­
tors iro rejoiced to see it ihroi Observers.
