{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V8 1892","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v8_1892.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V8 1892","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THK
_..'// 13
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
VOLUME VIII
(CONTAINING PARTS XXI XXIII.)
1892.
London :
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER and CO., Limited,
CHARING CROSS ROAD.
1892.
London :
National Press Aoenct, Limited,
13, YVhitkfriaks Strkkt, E.C.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME VIII.
1892.
A.
A., Miss, Experiments in Crystal-Vision and Kindred Phenomena ... 498
A., Miss, Seance with Mrs. Piper 25, 160
A. , Mrs., Case contributed by 514
American Branch of the Society for Psyehieal Research, List of Members 636
Ankarkrona, H. J., Evidence relating to Dr. Backman's Experiments ... 405
Anonymously contributed cases ... 233, 242, 345, 385, 396
Arithmetical Prodigies, F. W. H. Myers on the Genesis of the Faculty 349-359
Automatism, Sensory, F. W. H. Myers on 436
B.
B. , Miss, Hypnotic Experiments with 536
B., Miss A. A., Seance with Mrs Piper 114
B. , Mrs. Case contributed by , 238
Backman, Dr. A., Further information as to Experiments in Clairvoyance 405
Bakewell, C. M., Case contributed by 450
Barnby, Sir Joseph, Case contributed by ... ... 502
Barnes, S. E. , Case contributed by 174
Barrington, Erie, Case contributed by ... ... ... 514
Bass, W. , Case contributed by 399
Bell, Mrs., Case contributed by 389
BtSrillon, Dr., Remarks on Hypnotism (International Congress of Experi
mental Psychology) ... 604
,, ,, Hypnotic Suggestion in Education ... ... ... 608, 609
Bernheim, Prof., Hysterical Amblyopia, on 605
,, ,, Remarks on Hypnotism (International Congress of
Experimental Psychology) 604, 605, 609
Bertram!, Rev. L. J., Case contributed by 194
Bickford-Smith, Mrs., Case contributed by 382
Bidder, Mr., The "Calculating Genius," Powers of 351
,, ,, Q.C., Case contributed by 356
Blackwell, Dr. Elizabeth, Remarks on Hallucination (International Con
gress of Experimental Psychology)
ii Index to Vol. VIII.
Binet, M., Cases recorded by ... ... 454, 455
Blodgett, Mrs., Seances with Mrs. Piper 4, 10-16, 19, 21, 22, 69
Blyth, E. L. I., " Calculating Genius," Powers of 352
Boddington, Mrs., Case contributed by 234
Booth, Lady Core, Case contributed by ... 172
Bowditch, Prof. H. P., Seances with Mrs. Piper 7,8
Brand, Mrs. , Case contributed by... ... ... ... 383
Brighten, \V. E., Cases contributed by 400, 401
Brockelbank, A., Case contributed by 381
Brown, J. F., Evidence on "Slate-Writing" Phenomena 291
,, „ S6ances with Mrs. Piper 85, 88, 89
Brown, Mrs., Experiences in a Haunted House 327
Browne, Mrs. G. H., Seances with Mrs. Piper 19, 125
Browne, Sir J., On Prolonged Excitement in Mania 364
Browning, Robert, Case recorded by 377
Bruce, Lesvis C, Case contributed by ... 453
Bruce, Dr. Mitchell, Hallucinations induced by Drugs .. ... 444, 445
C.
C. A. J., SkANCk with Mrs. Piper 17, 116
C. E. D., Seance with Mrs. Piper 97
C, Mrs., Seances with Mrs. Piper 22, 13S
Campbell, Miss C. , Experiences in a Haunted House 323
Charcot, Dr., A case of Persistence of Memory in Dreams 379
Clairvoyance, Dr. Alfred Packman's Experiments in 405
• „ Cases of 180,194,490,491,501-506,517,518,522
Cocke, J. R., Mrs. Piper's S6ances with 46, 47
Conley Case, the 200
Consciousness, Subliminal, F. W. H. Myers on 333, 436
Council of the Society. See Officers and Council.
Crellin, Mrs. , Case contributed by 384
Cristoforo, Princess di, Cases contributed by 224, 225, 522
Crum, A., Conley Case, The 202-204
Crystal-Vision, Experiments in 460-465, 473, 492, 498, 522
Retrocognitive Visions ... 477, 486, 488, 499, 504, 506-512, 514
Telepathic or Clairvoyant 481, 482, 490-492, 501, 502,
505, 515, 522, 526
D.
D. C. , Seance with Mrs. Piper ... 125
Darwin, F. A., Case contributed by 398
Davey, Dr. , Case recorded by 394
Davey, S. J., Imitations by Conjuring of Phenomena attributed to
"Spirit Agency," Richard Hodgson on 253
,, ,, Modus operandi 256-259
„ ,, Proceedings XI. , Examination of evidence recorded in 259-289
Davics, Mrs., Case contributed by 218
Davis, Rev. W. W., Case contributed by 214
Davis, W. S. Imitations of "Spiritistic Phenomena"... ... 296,302,303
Index to Vol. VIII. iii
Delbomf, Prof., Appreciation of Time by Somnambulists 414,005
Derham, T. P., Seances with Mrs Piper 10, 21, 08
Downshire, Dowager Marchioness of, Casecontributed by 177
Dreams. See Hypermnesic Dreams.
Drugs, Effect of, in Producing Hallucinations 444, 445
Dufay, Dr. , Case of Improvement of Vision during Somnambulism ... 390
E.
Eardley, Lady, Cases contributed by 339
Ebbinghaus, Prof., Remarks on Hypnotic Phenomena (Intel national Con
gress of Experimental Psychology) 004
Edmunds, Miss, Seances with Mrs. Piper 22, 135, 154, 155
Elliott, Mrs. E. K., Case contributed by 344
Entwistle, Dr. and Mrs., Case contributed by 208
F.
F., Dr. C. W., Seances with Mrs. Piper 4, 51, 98
Faure, Dr. , Case recorded by ... 374
Finney, Mrs. , Case contributed by 249
Flournoy, Dr. Th., Cases contributed by 453, 450
Franklin, Prof., Remarks on Hallucination (International Congress of
Experimental Psychology ) 008
G.
Genius, Mechanism of, F. W. H. Myers on 333
Gibotteau, Dr., Expcriments in Thought-Transference 400-409
Grant, Cameron, Case contributed by 212
Gruber, Prof., Case recorded by 457
Gnrney, Edmund, Memorial Library Catalogue 012
II.
II., C.H., CAse contributed by 386
Hallucination", Census of. Report before the International Congress of
Experimental Psychology 0u7
,, Induced, F. W. H. Myers on 430
,, ,, See Crystal Vvsion.
,, ,, Drugs, Effect of, in Producing 444
,, ,, Experiments in Visualisation 450, 451-458, 48U,
499, 510-519
,, ,, Shell-hearing 492-495
,, ,, Transference of Mental Pictures, fitc. 459-409, 554-577
Haunted House, Record of a, by Miss R. C. Morton 311
Hayes, F. W., Case contributed by 392
Herschell, Sir J., On Hypnagogic Hallucinations ... 340,347,455
Higtou, W., Cases contributed by ..• 337
iv Index to Vol. VIII.
Hodgson, Richard, Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring of Phenomena
sometimes attributed to Spirit Agency 253
,, ,, Record of Observations of certain Phenomena of Trance 1
Seances with Mrs. Piper 9, 18, 20, 23, 43-45, 51 , 54, 56,
60, 61, 63, 6."i, 66, 93, 131, 139-142, 146, 149
Holbrooke, Dr. M. L., Case contributed by 374
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, S6aneos with Mrs. Piper 23-25, 139-158
Hopkins, Dr. S. A., Seances with Mrs. Piper 10, 68
Howard, A. J., and W. T., Reports on the case of Dr. Wiltse ... 188, 190
Hunt, Miss A., Case contributed by 388
Hypermnesic Dreams, F. W. H. Myers on 362
,, ,, Information given and Problems solved ... 392-396
,, ,, Telepathic or Transitional 397-402
,, ,, Vividness of Sensory Faculties ... 371
Hypnotism 335, 405-411, 414, 423, 445, 446, 454, 459, 526, 530, 603, 611
,, Action at a Distance .. 335
,, Amnesia cured by means of 379, 603
,, Clairvoyance 405-411, 526
Curative Effects of 603, 604, 609-61 1
,, Legal and Moral Aspects of 604,608,609
,, Suggestion, Hypnotic Hallucinations ... 445,446,459-465,554
,, „ Memory Conditions of 378, 379
,, ,, Self-suggestion 374, 375, 378
,, Time, Appreciation of, by Somnambulists 414, 605
,, Thought-transference... 422,464,536. See Thoujht-transference.
I.
INTerNATIONAL Congress of Experimental Psychology, Report of 610
J.
J., Miss, Case contributed by 222
James, Prof. W., Seances with Mrs. Piper ... ... ... 4, 5, 44, 56, 133
James, Robertson, Seance with Mrs. Pipor ... 16,92
Janet, Prof., On a case of Amnesia cured by Hypnotism 603
,, ,, Memory restored by Artificial Means ... 482
Johnson, Miss Alice, Experiments in Thought-Transference 536
K.
K. , Mrs., Report on Experiences in a Haunted House 326
Keulemans, J. G., Clairvoyant and other Experiences 516
Knorr, Dr. L., Case contributed by 238
Krafft-Ebing, Dr. It. Von, Hypnotic Experiments of ... 375
L.
L., Dr. C, Seances with Mrs. Piper 125,159
Lewis, H. J., Case contributed by 389
Index to Vol. VIII. v
Library, " Edmund Gurney," Supplementary Catalogue 012
Liebciult, Dr., Suicidal Mania Cured by Hypnotic Suggestion (Interna
tional Congress of Experimental Psychology) 004
Liegeois, Prof., Crime Committed under the Inlluenceof Hypnotic Sugges
tion (International Congress of Experimental Psychology) ... 009
Lodge, Prof. Oliver J., S6ances with Mrs. Piper 3
M.
M., Mrs., Case contributed by ITS
MacDonald, A. J., Case contributed by 396
Mangiamele, Vito, The Calculating (!enius, Powers of ... ,,351, 354, 355
Maril,ier, Leon, Report on the Census of Hallucinations (International
Congress of Experimental Psychology) 60"
Mansfield and Watkins, Alleged " Slate-Writing " Phenomena of ... 290, 291
Marson, Gervase, Case contributed by 391
Mason, Miss M. H., Case contributed by 372
Meetings of the Society, Ordinary 169,413
Members, Associates, and Honorary Members, List of 615-630
„ American Branch, List of ... 636
Mendelssohn, Dr., On Hysterical Amblyopia (International Congress of
Experimental Psychology) 605
Menneer, Mrs. , Case contributed by 208
Morton, Miss II. C, Record of a Haunted House 311
Moses, W. Stainton, Memoir of, by F. W. H. Myers 597
Munro, Mr. . On Mr. Davey's Experiments 296, 297
Myers, F. W. H., Indications of Terrene Knowledge in Phantasms of
the Dead 170
,, ,, Moses, W. Stainton, Memoir of ... 597
,, Report of the International Congress of Experimental
Psychology 601
,, Subliminal Consciousness, The 333, 436
,, ,, Hypermne,iic Dreams 302
,, ,, Mechanism of Genias 333
,, ,, Sensory Automatism and Induced Hallucinations 436
Myers, W., Case contributed by
N. M., Seances with Mrs. Piper
Newnham, Rev. P. H., Case contributed by ..
Noell, M., Case contributed by
Norris, T. J., Case contributed by
17, 120
... 490
... 175
... 376
0.
Officers and Conncil of the Society
Okie, Mrs. Howard, Seances with Mrs. Piper
( In, Mrs. Sutherland, Case recorded by
Osier, Dr., Remarks on Hallucinations (International Congress of Experi
mental Psychology)
vi Index to Vol VIII.
P.
P., Hypnotic Experiments with 459,536
P. Mrs., Seances with Mrs. Piper 19, S4
Padshah, 15. J., Evidence as to Mr. Davey's " Slate-Writing" Phenoncma
264, 265, 270, 282, 293
Paige, E. , Case contributed by 227
Pedley, Mr. and Mrs., Case contributed by 231
Personality, Problems of 2(4, 50, 54
Peterson, A. T. T., Cases contributed by 395
Phantasms of the Dead, Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge in,
F. W. H. Myers on ... 170
Pilkington, Mrs., Case contributed by 210
Piper, Mrs. , Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance, K.
Hodgson on ... 1
Psychology, Second International Congress of Experimental 601
Q.
Q., The Misses, Case contributed by
(I., Mr., Seance with Mrs. Piper ...
Quint, Wilson, Case contributed by
... 220
... 92
... 206
R.
R., Miss A M., Seances with Mrs. Piper 28, 111, 112
Ritdberg, Alma, Experiments in Clairvoyance with 405, 409
Radnor, Countess of, Miss A.'s Experiments in Crystal-Vision, &c 499-516
Raynes, S. H., Report on the Case of Dr. Wiltee 193
Reynolds, Col., Case contributed by 397
Reynolds, Mrs , Case contributed by 231
Rich, J. Rogers, Seances with Mrs. Piper 18, 19, 22, 52, 120
Richet, Prof. Oh. , Case contributed by 228
Roberts, T.O., on Mr. Davey's " Slate-Writing " Phenomena ... 273, 274
Itochas, M. de, Hypnotic Experiments of 378
Romilly, Hugh, Case contributed by 211
Royce, Prof., Cases recorded by 337, 385-387, 532
Russell, J., Evidence as to Mr. Davey's " Slate-Writing" Phenomena 264, 282
S.
S., Col., A. V., Case contributed by 387
S., F, S., S6ance with Mrs. Piper 119
S., H. W., Evidence on Mr. Davey's "Slate-Writing" Phenomena 267, 285-289
8., lima, Case of ... 375
S. , W. S. , Case contributed by 478
Samuelsson, Anna, Clairvoyant Experiments with 407, 408, 410
Savage, Miss, Seances with Mrs. Piper 19, 101
Index to Vol. VIII. vii
Savage, Revs. M. J. and W. H. Seances with Mrs. Piper 16,34,100,104-106
Schrenck-Notzing, Baron von, Experiment in Thought-Transference (Inter
national Congress of Experimental Psychology) 608
,, ,, Remarks on Hypnotism 609
Scripture, Dr., Experiments on Unconscious Vision 348
,, ,, On Arithmetical Prodigies 350-355
Shell-Hearing, Experiments in .. 492
Sidgwick, Mrs., Evidence as to Mr. Davey's "Slate-Writing" Pheno
mena 266, 272, 278
,, ,, Thought-Transference Experiments 536,609
Sidgwick, Prof., Census of Hallucinations (International Congress of
Experimental Psychology) 607
„ ,, Report of the International Congress of Experimental
Psychology 601
,, ,, Remarks on Hypnotic Phenomena 604, 606, 609
Slade, Henry, Alleged "Slate-Writing" Phenomena of 271, 293
Smith, G. A., Thought-Transference Experiments 536
Snow, Herman, Case contributed by 248
Spiritualiim, Mr. A. J. Davey's Imitations of Phenomena of 253
Sperling, Dr., Remarks on Hypnotic Phenomena (International Congress
of Experiment tl Psychology) 605
Stevenson, R. L., Dream Experiments ... 371
Stuart, Mrs. J. Windsor, Case contributed by ... ... 384
Subliminal Consciousness, F. W. H. Myers on 333, 436
,, ,, Hypermnesic Dreams ... 362
,, ,, Mechanism of Genius 333
,, ,, Resume of Argument 436, 437
,, ,, Sensory Automatism and Induced Hallucinations 436
Symons, Miss J. H., Case contributed by ,, ,, ,389
,, ,, Evidence on Mr. Davey's Slate-WritingPhenomena 266, 277
T.
T., Hypnotic Experiments with 459, 536
T., Miss M. A., Seance with Mrs. Piper 97
T., Mr. and Mrs., Seance with Mrs. Piper 28, 121, 123
Telepathy. See Crystal Vision and Thought-Transference.
Thaw, Dr. Blair, Experiments in Thought-Transference 422
Theobald Morell, Case contributed by 235, 236
Thought-transference, Experiments with Colours 427, 429
,, Ideas and Mental Pictures 434, 459-405, 466-469, 552-577
,, Local Amesthesia and Rigidity Produced .. . 577-593
,, Numbers 428, 537-552
„ Objects 423-425, 427-429
Playing Cards 427, 428
,, Tables and Summaries of Results 540, 541,546,
547, 556-560, 584-587
,, Willed Actions Performed .. 432-434
Time, Appreciation of, in Somnambulists 414, 605
Tissi6, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 378
Trance, Hodgson, R., Record of Certain Phenomena of 1
Twining, Mrs., Experiences in a Haunted House ... 328
viii Index to Vol. VIII.
V.
Van Eede\, Dr., Remarks on Hypnotic Phenomena (International Con
gress of Experimental Psychology) 604, 609
Veith, Fraiilein, Stance with Mrs. Piper 95
Verrall, Mrs. , Case contributed by ... 371
,, ,, Experiments in Crystal-Vision and Kindred Phenomena 473,480
Voisin, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 378
W.
W., Miss E. G., Seances with Mrs. Piper 4, 28, 29-43
W. , Mr. , Case contributed by 242
W., Mrs., Seances with Mrs. Piper ... 17, 110
Wadsworth, O. F. , Seance with Mrs. Piper ••• ... 84
Wallace, Alfred Hussel, R. Hodgson on Mr. Davey's Imitations of
Spiritualistic Phenomena, A Reply to 253
Watkins and Mansfield, Alleged " Slate-Writing " Phenomena of ... 290-293
Wendell, Barrett, Seance with Mrs. Piper ... 10,97,98
Whately, Archbishop, Calculating Powers of 353
Wheeler, Mrs. , Case contributed by 391
Whitehead, Dr., Case recorded by ... 398
Whiting, Miss L., Seance with Mrs. Piper 28,124
Wicksell, Knut, Criticism of Dr. Packman's Experiments .. ... 408-411
Wilson, Mrs., Case contributed by 229
Wiltse, Dr., Case contributed by... 180
Wolstenholme, R., Case contributed by 496
Wyatt, M. H., Thought-Transference Experiments with ... 426, 427, 429, 433
X.
X., Miss, Experiments in Crystal-Vision .. 381,484
Y.
Y. A., Seances with Mrs. Piper 16, 96
Y., Mr., Mrs. and Miss, Evidence as to Mr. Davey's "Slate-Writing"
Phenomena 259-263, 207-270, 274
Yates, Mrs., Case contributed by 383
Young, Dr. A. K., Case recorded by ... ... 398
Yowanovitch, M., Experiments in Visualisation ... 456
Z.
Z. , Miss, Seance with Mrs. Piper 16,19,34,100
C O NTENTS.
PAGk
A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. By
RifHakri Hodoson, LL.D :—
§ 1. Introductory .......... 1
§ 2. Soma Peculiarities of the Trance State ..... 4
ij 3. Hypothesis of Fraud ........ 6
§ 4. Hypothesis of Thought-Transference from the Sitters . . 9
ij 5. Clairvoyance and Prophecy . . ..... 2"
S 6. The " Spirit " Hypothesis Concerning Phinuit and other
"Controls" 28
§ 7. Mrs. Piper's Early Trances ....... 46
J? 8. Phinuit's Account of Himself ...... 50
S 9. Relation of Phinuit to Mrs. Piper. . . . . .54
•$10. Conclusion .......... 56
Detailed Reports of Sittings ........ 59
General Meetings ....... .... 109
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge on the part of
Phantasms of the Dead. By F. W. H. Myers .... 170
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring of Phenomena sometimes attribu
ted to Spirit Agency. By Richard Hoduson, LL.D. . . 253
Record of a Haunted House. By Miss R. C. Morton . . . 311
The Subliminal Consciousness. Chap. III. The Mechanism of Genius.
Chap. IV. Hypermnesic Dreams. By F. W. H. Myers . 333
Further Information as to Dr. Backman's Experiments in Clairvoyance 405
General Meetings .......... 413
De l'Appreciation du Temps par les Somnambules. Par M. J.
Delbosuf, Profetmear a V University de Liiye .... 414
Some Experiments in Thought-Transference. By Dr. A. Blair Thaw 422
The Subliminal Consciousness. Chap. V. Sensory Automatism and
Induced Hallucinations. By F. W. H. Myers . . . 436
Experiments in Thought-Transference. By Mrs. H. Sidgwick and
Miss Alice Johnson 530
Supplement.
I. William Stainton Moses. By F. W. H. Myers . . 697
II. The Second International Congress of Experimental Psychology. 601
Supplementary Catalogue of the Edmund Gurney Library . 012
List of Members and Associates . . . . . . . . 015
List of Members and Associates of the American Branch . . 036
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
A RECORD OF OBSERVATIONS OF CERTAIN PHENOMENA
OF TRANCE.
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
(This Paper is a sequel to those in Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 436-650.)
§ 1. Introductory.
My knowledge of Mrs. Piper began early in May, 1887, about a
fortnight after my arrival in Boston. Professor William James men
tioned her to me, and appointed an hour, without, of course, mentioning
my name, at which Mrs. Piper could give me a sitting. Mrs. Piper,
however, was engaged at the tune I called, and could see me only to
arrange for a sitting a day or two later. As my readers know, from the
article in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI., pp. 436-650, Mrs. Piper passes
into the so-called "mediumistic trance," and then usually purports to be
" controlled " by a " Doctor Phinuit." For convenience of reference I
shall speak of " Phinuit "as a distinct personality, and consider later
some points that bear on the probability or improbability that Phinuit
is an intelligence entirely separate from the individuality of Mrs. Piper.
After I had had several sittings I informed Mrs. Piper of my name
and address, dec, for convenience in arranging sittings—either for
myself or for other persons—and I estimate that I have made appoint
ments for at least fifty persons whom I believed to be strangers to Mrs.
Piper. At one time I arranged with Mrs. Piper that she should give
me the first hour on three mornings of the week for several successive
weeks, and I sent persons at these times to keep the appointment,
usually warning them not to speak of their intended visit even in the
presence of their nearest relatives, while Mrs. Piper knew simply that
either myself or some person deputed by me would fill each engagement.
On a few occasions I accompanied the sitters and took notes of the
sittings.
Several times Mrs. Piper was unable to go into trance at all. At
other times the attempts of Phinuit to give information to the sitters.
2 Mr. R. Hothjson.
were not only unsatisfactory, but were calculated to produce the opinion
that he had no supernormal faculty whatever, but was " fishing " and
" shuffling " like any ordinary pseudo-medium, and this opinion was
produced in some of the sitters, who regarded Mrs. Piper as probably
fraudulent. Others again believed themselves to be, through Phinuit,
actually conversing with their deceased friends, while others regarded
the communications as explicable on the hypothesis that Mrs. Piper
in her trance state possesses the power of getting glimpses into the
sitter's past experiences, or, to use the phrase of one sitter, of " fingering
in the wastepaper basket of our memories." These sittings, therefore,
were very much of the same character as those already reported in
Vol. VI. of our Proceedings. Much interest was aroused by these
preliminary inquiries, which I conducted for my own personal satisfac
tion, and finally, in 1888, a serious attempt was made by the Com
mittee on Mediumistic Phenomena (appointed by the Council of the
American Society for Psychical Research) to investigate Mrs. Piper,
and I extract the following from the Report of the Committee (Pro
ceedings of the American Societyfor Psychical Research, p. 320) :—
" During the year the committee, as such, has undertaken the careful
examination of the results obtained by one well-known trance medium, who
is reported to have given to many prudent sitters nanies and communications
of such accuracy and fulness that it is supposed that such results could only
be reached by some occult agency, or by some mental process which is not
exactly recognised as yet. The committee was of the opinion that the reality
of such phenomena could probably be satisfactorily determined by a series of
sittings held with suitable sitters under the personal supervision of a member
of the committee and stenographically reported. In this plan we were aided
very materially by the generous co-operation of the medium, who expressed
herself ready and willing to act with us in our work. Thus far we have been
able to have only eight or ten sittings in which the desired conditions were
reasonably fulfilled. The results thus obtained are not of such a character as
to warrant any very decided judgment as tii the nature of the phenomena
under examination, but they throw some light on the questions involved."
This special investigation ended owing to lack of funds. The com
mittee regarded the stenographic reports as essential, and these were
expensive.
I had the opportunity of studying the stenographic reports men
tioned in the above extract, and also the comments of the sitter and of
the member of the committee in each case. I have also in my posses
sion several stenographic reports of sittings made at the instance of
Professor James previous to my arrival in America. In addition I have
had sittings for the purpose of testing Phinuit's capacities in various
ways, and among them a series of sittings which Mrs. Piper gave
gratuitously, for the purpose of enabling me to find out what I could
from Phinuit, in any way that I chose, concerning his own personality,
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance.
his knowledge, his relations to Mrs. Piper, &e. This series of sittings last
referred to, of which the circumstances at the time permitted me to have
only five, were stenographically reported, also gratuitously, by a lady
member of our Society who had had frequent sittings with Mrs. Piper,
and was well known to the Phinuit personality. Furthermore, I have
received oral accounts from a large number of persons, some of whom
have had frequent sittings with Mrs. Piper for several years, indepen
dently of my arrangements. I have before me also the reports of Mrs.
Piper's sittings in England. Mrs. Piper, throughout all my acquaint
ance with her, has shown the fullest readiness to accept my suggestions
in any way whatever for the purpose of ascertaining the meaning of the
Phinuit personality, and both she and Phinuit gave me full permission
to try and test in any way that I might think desirable. As my investi
gations have proceeded I have been more and more strengthened in the
conviction that Mrs. Piper's trance is a genuine abnormal state, and
that the normal waking Mrs. Piper has no direct knowledge whatever
of the sayings and doings of her trance personality. That she exhibits
supernormal phenomena in the trance state I have no doubt. In brief,
I find myself in entire agreement with the formal summary report pre
sented by Professor Lodge in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI., p. 443,
which ran, it will be'remembered, as follows :—
"It is the case of a lady who appears to go off into a trance when she
pleases to will it under favourable surroundings, and in that trance to talk
volubly, with a manner and voice quite different from her ordinary manner
and voice, on details concerning which she has had no information given her.
" In this abnormal state her speech has reference mainly to people's
relatives and friends, living or deceased, about whom she is able to hold a
conversation, and with whom she appears more or less familiar.
" By introducing anonymous strangers, and by catechising her myself in
various ways, I have satisfied myself that much of the information she
possesses in the trance state is not acquired by ordinary commonplace
methods, but that she has some unusual means of acquiring information.
The facts on which she discourses are usually within the knowledge of some
person present, though they are often entirely out of his conscious thought
at the time. Occasionally facts have been narrated which have only been
verified afterwards, and which are in good faith asserted never to have been
known ; meaning thereby that they have left no trace on the conscious
memory of any person present or in the neighbourhood, and that it is highly
improbable that they were ever known to such persons.
" She is also in the trance state able to diagnose diseases and to specify
the owners or late owners of portable property, under circumstances which
preclude the application of ordinary methods.
" In the midst of this lucidity a number of mistaken and confused
statements are frequently made, having little or no apparent meaning or
application.
" Concerning the particular means by which she acquires the different
B 2
4 Mr. R. Hodyson.
kinds of information, there is no sufficient evidence to make it safe to draw
any conclusion. I can only say with certainty that it is by none of the
ordinary methods known to Physical Science."
§ 2. Some Peculiarities of the Trance State.
Mrs. Piper seems, so far as my experiments have gone, to be partially
amesthetic in the medium-trance. Professor James tells me that on one
occasion he found the lips and tongue analgesic. Phinuit claims to
have neither taste nor smell, and I was unable to get any indications of
them. Once, however, when I was testing Phinuit's knowledge of herbs
(see below, p. 51), Mrs. Blodgett was present and tasted one of the
specimens, whereupon Phinuit put a portion in his mouth, but in reply
to my inquiry said that he could not taste it. Phinuit claimed to get
no sensations of smell from a scent-bag or a bottle of perfume,—at
which I was not surprised, since, on a previous occasion, I could not
detect the smallest signs of discomfort1 after he had taken several
inhalations of strong ammonia. I took special care to see that the
ammonia was actually inhaled. Similarly he appeared to be quite un
aware of a spoonful of salt which I placed in his mouth. Dr. C. W. F.
states (see below, Reports of Sittings, No. 23) that the sense of taste
was in the forehead, but the single incident upon which he founded this
opinion is capable of another explanation. Dr. F. writes to me :—
"February 16th, 1891.
"At my first seance with Mrs. Piper, Phinuit said, 'Get the medium to
cut off a lock of your hair for me to examine and then prescribe some
medicine for you.' This was done and the medicine sent to me, and I took it
for a time, and thought it soothed the bladder. I put a small vial of it in my
pocket before visiting Mrs. Piper again, as I wished Phinuit to tell me what
it was. I took it from my pocket during the trance and handed it to her,
when she removed the cork and wetted her finger either from the cork or
vial and placed it to her forehead. Phinuit remarked that it was all right,
correctly prepared. It contained, among other things, uva ursi and wild
carrot. I now remember asking him the question, ' Why was it necessary
for you to have a lock of my hair to examine before prescribing for me when
you had mo right before you ? ' His answer was to the effect that the
medicine might be examined by him after its preparation to see that it was
all right. He then instanced a case he prescribed for where a wrong salt was
used by the apothecary to the injury of the lady having the seance. I made
no further experiment as to the seat of the sense of taste."
On the other hand, Miss W. relates an incident that seems to bear
on this point (see p. 31), where Phinuit apparently went through the
process of " tasting," and suggested that Mrs. Piper had been eating
onions. Miss W. further writes :—•
i Mm. Pi'iier suffered somewhat after the trance was over.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 5
" Dr. Phinuit seemed to taste the onion. The tongue moved about in the
mouth and smacked on the lips for several seconds, while I waited with much
curiosity. Neither then nor afterwards did I get any hint of the odour
through my own nostrils."
He localised pinches correctly in various parts of the Ixxly, and
sensations of touch, temperature, pressure, and the muscular sense seem
to be all present, though apparently somewhat enfeebled. The sense of
bearing is present, though this seems to vary in fineness to a certain
extent in different trances. When I made some rough experiments on,
localisation by pinching—sometimes rather severely—Phinuit explained
that he " lost control " temporarily of that portion of the body.
"Makes it like a stick. I have got no feeling in that for a time, but
when you let go I feel it again." Later on, unexpectedly, I held a
lighted match to the left forearm. The arm was drawn away, not
suddenly, but slowly, as though a vague discomfort was appreciated.
" Oui, I feel it," exclaimed Phinuit. " Did you feel pain ? " " No, felt
cold—cold, I think." I have not tried any severe pain tests. (See
Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 447.) Whenever I examined the eye
balls in the medium-trance I found them rolled up, and the pupils
reacted to light. They reacted also, I learn from Professor James, in
the ordinary hypnosis which he succeeded in obtaining with Mrs. Piper.
On one occasion, having persuaded Phinuit to stand up,1 I held the
eyelids up and urged Phinuit to force the eyeballs into their ordinary
waking position. This seemed to involve considerable effort on Phinuit's
part, and Mrs. Piper's face became much drawn and rather ghastly
during the process. The eyeballs, with a vacant stare, remained down
for about half a minute, though I did not take the exact time, and then
suddenly rolled up again. (At the end of that sitting Mrs. Piper was
an exceptionally long time recovering from trance. Phinuit had said
" Au revoir," but after several minutes spoke again in a low voice, and
complained that he had " got twisted round somehow and could not find
his way out." After a short interval, however, Mis. Piper began to
come to herself in the usual way.)
Here I fully expected to have added the report of Mrs. Piper's
physician, who attended her for several months in 1890, and who was
present at a sitting which Mrs. Piper gave on December 4th, 1890 ;
but after hesitating for some time he absolutely refused to make any
report whatever.
Dr. Wadsworth, who made an examination of Mrs. Piper's eyes in
i Mrs. Piper stood up without changing the position of her feet, at the same
time throwing her head slightly back and her chest forward, and thrusting the
thumbs jauntily into what would have been the armholes of her waistcoat had she
worn one.
G Mr. R. Hodgson.
the normal state, informs me that she has slight astigmatism, but that
otherwise the eyes are normal in all respects.i
§ 3. Hypothesis of Fkaud on the Part of Mrs. Piper.
I need hardly say that in estimating the value of my own as of
all other sittings, I was compelled to assume, in the first instance,
that Mrs. Piper was fraudulent and obtained her information previously
by ordinary means, such as inquiries by confederates, &c. Not only
was this assumption as to Mrs. Piper's fraud necessary, but it was also
needful to suppose that she worked herself into a hypenvsthetic state
during which she obtained much further information given in various
ways by the sitter, consciously or unconsciously, by speech, gesture, and
other muscular action. That I did not obtain a sitting at my first visit
might be pointed to as a very suspicious circumstance, and it might well
be supposed that, in consequence of my known connection with the
Society for Psychical Research, Mrs. Piper might have previously "got
up " information about myself and other active workers in the Society
in the expectation of future use. The inadequacy, moreover, of my
notes may also be alleged, since they were not absolutely verbatim and
my attention was more or less given to the associations connected with
the information communicated by Phinuit. In reply to this I can only
say that I have striven with the utmost care to avoid attributing to
Phinuit any statement which might have been obtained previously from
my own words.2 My opinion about my own sittings is that they would
appear much more remarkable if stenographic reports had been token.
Now, we cannot argue that the facts related to me by Phinuit were
not such as were likely to have been provided by confederates, because
we must suppose that Mrs. Piper has an astuteness at least equal to
ours, and would therefore anticipate an argument of this kind. And
there is hardly any single fact about any single person of which a medium
may not be legitimately supposed to have acquired some knowledge,
either accidentally or by systematic secret inquiry. The difficulty in
supposing that Phinuit's knowledge has been acquired in this way is
i Examination hit O. F. WadiKorth, M.D., Boston, Mass.—Hm. L. E. Piper,
January 11th, 1891.—Eyes on external inspection normal in appearance. Right eye :
vision, with — '25 sph. and + 75 cyl, axis vertical, }$ +. Left eye : vision, with
+ '50cyl, axis vertical, +. Reads '5 Snellen 20" to 9". Field of vision in each eye
normal. Colour sense normal. Fundus normal.
2 In recording the early sittings both of myself and other persons, my object was
not so much to note down every word of Phinuit, but to note the substance of such
specific statements as were made by Phinuit without help from the sitter, using, of
course, Phinuit's words as far as possible. I did not, moreover, anticipate any detailed
publicaiton of these early records, which I made for my own satisfaction and for
subsequent questioning of the sitters, at a time when I was looking forward to a
systematic examination of Mrs. Piper's trance state by the then existing American
S.P.R.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 7
owing to the large number of facts communicated concerning a largo
number of different sitters, special care having been taken with the view
of preventing Mrs. Piper's knowing anything of these persons before
hand. There is, I think, in the reports which follow, enough evidence
to show that fraud on the part of Mrs. Piper is very far from being an
adequate explanation, though it is, of course, conceivable that in
some cases Mrs. Piper, had she been fraudulent, might have acquired In
ordinary means such information as Phinuit gave to the sitter. Mr.
John F. Brown, for example, appears to have concluded that this
supposition, allowing also for guesswork and questioning during the
sitting, is the actual explanation of his own experiences with Mrs.
Piper (Rejwrts of Sittinys, No. 13) ; and Professor Henry P. Bowditch,
M.D., has given me an account of some circumstances which he finds
hard to explain, except upon the hypothesis that Mrs. Piper was
acting fraudulently.
Professor Bowditch had a sitting with Mrs. Piper in May,
1886, at which the communications were entirely irrelevant. His con
nection with the American Society for Psychical Research was
prominent, and he might have been seen by Mrs. Piper presiding at
public meetings, and his name ascertained. He is frequently called Dr.
Henry Bowditch. An uncle of his, Henry I. Bowditch, M.D., was also
well known as a practising physician in Boston. About December,
1887, Professor Bowditch, accompanied by his brother's wife, called on
Mrs. Piper for the purpose of having a sitting. Mrs. Piper, he says,
declined to give a sitting on the plea of ill-health, but held some con
versation with them, and presumably recognised Professor Bowditch.
Several weeks later I arranged a sitting for them, at the request of Pro
fessor Bowditch, without, of course, mentioning any names. At this
sitting, which was held on January 17th, 1888, several specific details
were given which purported to come from a deceased lady well known
to the sitters. Her Christian name and surname were correctly given,
and also the place of her death, in Europe ; but the references to Pro
fessor Bowditch, his father, and other relatives were incorrect as applied
to him, but would have been correct if applied to his uncle, Dr. Hemy
I. Bowditch, to whom also the deceased lady had been well known.
Moreover, no statements at all were made which appeared specially to
concern Professor Bowditch's sister-in-law, who accompanied him. It
was plain to him during the sitting that there was some confusion, but
it was not till afterwards, in talking the matter over with his sister-in-
law, that it occurred to him that the references would have fitted his
uncle. Professor Bowditch's inference was that Mrs. Piper had
obtained information beforehand by ordinary means concerning Dr.
Henry I. Bowditch, and had applied it to himself, supposing him to be
the person.
8 Mr. R. Hodgson.
Unfortunately no record was made of this sitting, and although
Professor Bowditch's explanation is the one that would appear most
reasonable to any person who was not familiar with Mrs. Piper's
trance state, I think it probable that the incident could easily be
explained otherwise if we had a detailed report of the conversation
between Professor Bowditch and Phinuit. In personal appearance,
ut least, Professor Bowditch could never be mistaken for his uncle ;
but if we suppose Phinuit to be receiving there and then—from
whatever source, "departed spirits" or the minds of the sitters—a
general mass of information about the Bowditch family, it would not be
matter of surprise that he should be confused as to the two doctors
Henry Bowditch. It would be much more matter of surprise that Mrs.
Piper should make this mistake. It may even be that Phinuit was
drawing information, not only—at the time of the sitting— from the
sitters or from some extraneous source, but also from the knowledge,
conscious and unconscious, previously possessed by Mrs. Piper, and in
attempting to piece these fragments of information together made some
mistakes. But in the absence of precise details as to what Phinuit said,
how far there was mere confusion and how far there was definite mis
taken identity, my explanation cannot go beyond conjecture. The reader
may compare the incidents described by Professor Lodge in Proceedings,
Vol. VI., p. 454 and p. 462 (footnote).
I have already stated my conviction of Mis. Piper's honesty, and I
hold further that the reports quoted here—not to speak of those already
published in Vol. VI.—establish the existence of some faculty in
Phinuit which goes at least as far as telepathy. The detailed
reports themselves are offered as justification for this view, and
—after what has been already published—I think it superfluous to
attempt any summary of them for the purpose of proving cither that
Mrs. Piper could not have acquired by normal means the information
given at the sittings, or that Phinuit, as distinguished from Mrs. Piper,
could not have obtained all this information by guessing, questioning,
and interpretation of muscular and other indications consciously and
unconsciously given by the sitters. My readers, I shall assume, are
familiar with the analysis of Phinuit's character and methods by
Professor Lodge and also with the —to a certain extent complementary
--analysis by Mr. Leaf. With all their criticisms of Phinuit's "tricks
and manners " I substantially if not completely agree, and I wish to
emphasise this fact very strongly, not because of the mere agreement
itself, but because it should be understood that I do not pass lightly
over the weakness and deficiencies of the Phinuit personality. Indeed,
I have been at sittings where Phinuit has displayed such paltering and
equivocation, and such a lack of lucidity, that I believe had these been
my only experiences with him I should without any hesitation have
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 9
condemned Mrs. Piper as an impostor. Such failures appear to depend
sometimes, but not always, on the sitter. As Phinuit himself confessed
(May 26th, 1888): "Sometimes when I come here, do you know,
actually it is hard work for me to get control of the medium. Some
times I think I am almost like the medium, and sometimes not at all.
Then [when the control is incomplete] I am weak and confused."
Admitting, then, and emphasising the shortcomings of Phinuit, and
allowing that many statements correctly made by Phinuit might be
accounted for on the supposition that Mrs. Piper had "got up" the
information beforehand, I shall here assume that there is nevertheless a
large residuum to be attributed to some supernormal faculty. From
this point of view the really important questions for consideration are :
(1) What is Phinuit? and (2) By what supernormal means does he get
his information 1 I have no final answer for either of these questions,
but I think it useful to collate briefly some of the most important
incidents in the records here published, with the view of showing why
the most obvious answers are not entirely satisfactory. In doing this
I propose to follow the example of Professor Lodge (Proceedings, Vol.
VI., p. 647), and dismiss altogether the hypothesis of imposture on the
part of Mrs. Piper.
§ 4. Hypothesis of Thought-Transference from the Sitters.
Considering, then, my own first six sittings, I find that all the cor
rect (verifiable) statements made by Phinuit concerned matters known
to me, except the insignificant prophecy that my sister (in Australia)
would soon have a fourth child—a boy. I had no (conscious) knowledge
even that another child was " coming very soon." On the other hand,
I did not consciously know the Christian name of my mother's father,
though I had probably heard it, and this was incowectly given as John.
Further, Phinuit failed to obtain information, or made fundamental
mistakes, in matters about which my own recollections were very clear
and vivid. The most striking circumstances correctly mentioned were
concerning the lady whom I have called " Q." and my cousin Fred, and
were such as I should expect those persons to select, if in actual com
munication with me, as proofs of identity. But then, again, Phinuit was
unable to tell me of circumstances about which I made special inquiry, and
which were at least as familiar to the alleged "spirit" as those described
to me. Thus, Phinuit never told me the full name of " Q.," though I
frequently asked for it at later sittings. His explanation was that " Q."
refused to tell him, but Phinuit has frequently urged his ignorance on
this point as a proof that he cannot " read my mind " (an inability of
which he is very anxious to assure me), and I suspect that this ignorance
may be assumed. However this may be, there is no doubt but that
10 Mr. R. Hodysov.
Phinuit's unquestionable failure to obtain satisfactory replies to many
questions which have been asked of the " deceased friends " is a most
formidable objection, as we shall see later, to the "spirit hypothesis"—
at least, as it is commonly accepted.
Admitting now that the facts mentioned at these first sittings
of mine were drawn by Phinuit from my mind, I must notice
that they were, certainly most of them, and possibly all of them,
obtained from my mind at a time when I was not consciously think
ing of them, that is, presuming that Phinuit obtained his knowledge
during the sittings. Vivid conscious thinking of a circumstance
does not seem, indeed, to help Phinuit in any way, but rather
the contrary. Mr. Wendell's experience (Report, No. 21), which
apparently suggested to him that Phinuit's obtaining the names of his
uncle and E. was in consequence of their " coming into his head " after
he had been reminded of their " death conditions " by the actions of
Phinuit—clutching of throat, gasping—does not, I think, necessarily
involve any conscious as distinguished from subconscious thought-trans
ference, especially if we consider that Mr. Wendell's attention may
have been temporarily diverted by Phinuit from the thought of the
name or the personal appearance. (See my remarks about Phinuit's habit
of turning the conversation away from a subject upon which informa
tion is sought, p. 14.)
Q My conclusion, then, about my own first six sittings is that the
statements made by Phinuit may be regarded as explicable on the
hypothesis that he had access to portions of my " subconscious " mind?,
The same, allowing for Phinuit's previous knowledge, can also be said of
the sittings of Mrs. Okie and Dr. Hopkins, and Mr. T. P. Derham, my
brother-in-law (Reports, Nos. 7, 8, and 9). I understand that all the
(verified) facts mentioned to Mr. Derham were known to him, though
some of them were unknown to myself.
(The next reports, in connection with Mrs. Blodgett (Report, No. 10),
are specially important, owing to Mrs. Blodgett's attempts to obtain
from Phinuit a copy of a letter written by her sister, Miss Hannah
Wild, shortly before death, the contents of this letter being at the time
of the first experiment unknown to any living person. Mrs. Blodgett
(of Holyoke, Mass., about 100 miles from Boston), previously unknown
to Professor James, wrote to Jjjjjifexplaining the circumstances of the
letter written by her sisterJMKrs. Blodgett thinks that she sent
Professor James a copy of the Woman's Journal containing a notice of
her sister's death, though Professor James has no recollection of this, or
of knowing even the name of Hannah Wild until the conclusion of the
first experiment. Professor James suggested trying Mrs. Piper. ' The
case may be most conveniently considered in four stages.
(A) The first trial was made early in 1887. Articles worn by Miss
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. II
Wild were forwarded by Mrs. Blodgett to Professor James and liy hint
to Mrs. Piper's father-in-law, Mr. J. M. Piper, at whose house Mrs. Piper
was living at the time. Professor James had explained the nature of the
test to Mr. Piper without giving any names, and Phinuit had requested
some articles worn by the writer of the letter, to enable him, as he
alleged, to get into communication with the " spirit." As a result
Phinuit obtained the name of Hannah Wild, and perhaps some per
ception of her connection with the Woman's Journal, in which she was
interested and to whose pages she had contributed, also the name of her
sister, Bessie (Mrs. Blodgett), to whom she was to give the test, and
some impression concerning the then recent marriage of this sister.
Beyond these facts practically nothing correct was obtained. Mr. Piper
had numerous sittings for the purpose of receiving the details of what
Phinuit gave as the death-bed letter, and was confident that he had
been conversing with the spirit of Hannah WTikl ; yet the description
given of her personal appearance was almost entirely wrong, Phinuit's
letter contained no hint of the substance of the real letter, which Mis.
Blodgett forwarded to Professor James1 for comparison with Phinuit's
statements, and the 2iumerous circumstances referred to in Phinuit's
letter had scarcely any relation to the life of Hannah Wild. They
were chiefly a tissue of incorrect statements. This result so far
suggested that however Phinuit succeeded in obtaining the names and
the other impressions which proved to be more or less correct, he at
least did not get them from the "spirit" of Hannah Wild.
(/») The next attempt made was about a year later—May 30th, 1888
—by Mrs. Blodgett herself, who took with her to the sitting, in a small
bag, various articles which had belonged to her deceased sister. This
sitting, at which I was present, was very striking, and contained much
of the personal element which has led so many to suppose that in their
sittings with Mrs. Piper they have been communicating with their
deceased friends. In this case Phinuit "controlled" throughout, and
professed most of the time to be repeating the remarks of Hannah Wild,
who was represented as exceedingly anxious to prove her identity to
Mrs. Blodgett, frequently affirming that she was Hannah Wild, and
would give her sister " that letter." Mrs. Blodgett had carried the
small bag into the sitting-room unperceived by me, and had placed it
on the floor behind her. Phinuit groped^ir this near the beginning of
the sitting. All the articles in the ba|^^pectacles, hair, photograph,
and will—which had belonged to Miss Wild were seized, and various
details concerning them correctly given by Phinuit, excepting the
death-bed letter which had been in the bag, wrapped in a rubber cloth,
i Professor Jamot U the only living person who knows the contents of the letter.
He read it at the end of the first ex|xriment, and immediately returned it to Mrs.
Blodgett, in whose potseasion it has since remained.
12 Mr. R. Hodgson.
.and which Mrs. Blodgett tiiok out of the bag and placed on the floor
behind her when the bag was opened at the sitting. This letter was
wrongly stated to be "at home in the lxix." The bag itself was incor
rectly described as Miss Wild's, but it seems noteworthy that Miss Wild
had frequently used it. Mrs. Blodgett was not consciously aware that
her sister's photograph was in the bag, yet Phinuit correctly assertedi that
it was before finding it. Similarly Mrs. Blodgett was not consciously
aware that she had put her sister's thimble into the bag, but "Hannah"
stated that she saw Mrs. Blodgett put it into the bag, and Mrs. Blodgett
.afterwards found that she had done so, but had taken it with other
.articles out of the bag before starting for the sitting. ) Mrs. Blodgett
was doubtless subconsciously aware of both of these facts (compare the
-experiments of Miss X. in Crystal Vision, Proceedings, Vol. V.) ; and
Professor Lodge has noted the keen " scent " which Phinuit often
displays for articles which have been connected with some object which
he is examining. (See Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 460.) ^ The names and
other circumstances mentioned at the sitting showed an intimate
knowledge in some respects of personal matters connected with
Hannah Wild and her relatives, and the remark made by Hannah Wild
to Mrs. Blodgett when the test letter was put away in the tin lxix was
quoted, " It would be like ringing church bells if I could come back "
(instead of " the City Hall bell "). With all this personal matter
correctly given and purporting to come from Hannah Wild, Mrs.
Blodgett herself was acquainted. ^On the other hand, references were
made to a comb and to a Moses which had no significance for Mrs.
Blodgett, and the attempt by Phinuit to read the contents of a
letter written by Alice Wild to Hannah was a failure. Also,
two especially important statements were made about Elizabeth
Wild and Sarah Hcdson (the full name of the latter being cor
rectly given by Phinuit), one of which at least was incorrect. Both
were friends of Hannah Wild ; the former living in Philadelphia,
the other in Waterbury, Conn. Neither of these ladies was in good
health when Mrs. Blodgett last heard of them about two years before
the sitting. In reply to Mrs. Blodgett's question whether " Cousin
Elizabeth " was living, Phinuit stated that she had "passed out of the
body." Sarah Hodson, according to my notes at the sitting, was affirmed
to be living, but according to Mrs. Blodgett's recollections, Phinuit
stated that she was dead. It was afterwards ascertained that both
ladies were living at the time of the sitting and in much better health
than at the time of Miss Wild's death.
i When Phinuit made this statement he could hardly have detected the presence
of a photograph by normal means, since, as I remember the incident, the photograph
was of small size—vignette, not cabinet—and the envelope in which it was had been
placed with other objects in a small parcel not yet opened. The statement may,
however, have been a likely guess.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 13
(C)(A.t the sitting on May 30th, 1888, I believe that some promise
was made by Phinuit that the letter would be dictated to me at a
later sitting. Mrs. Blodgett sent me a lock of her sister's hair, which
she had cut from her sister's head after death, and with the help of this,
on August 1st, 1888, Phinuit gave what purported to be the substance
of the letter. This was a statement (in general terms, no names being
given) concerning a disappointment which prevented Miss Wild from
marrying. Mrs. Blodgett refers to it as " the one sorrow of sister's
life." At a later sitting—October 3rd, in the same year—with the help
of a much larger lock of hair and a " tidy," which Miss Wild had
finished a few days before her death, Phinuit made another attempt,
worse than before, to give the letter.^ The statements purporting to
come from Hannah Wild, some of them as the substance of her death
bed letter and others in reply to questions which Mrs. Blodgett had
requested me to ask, were almost entirely wrong, though there may have
been one or two obscure perceptions by Phinuit of circumstances con
nected with Miss Wild or Mrs. Blodgett that had not been mentioned
in previous sittings. Mrs. Blodgett's first husband's name was given as
John Henry (or Henry John) Clifford, whereas it was John Rothmall
Bair, although a Mr. John Henry Clifford is known to her. The name
of her son was given as "Willie," instead of " John Marion Barr." Miss
Wild knew a " Mr. Tom " and his sister, and had talked with him on
church matters, and worked on the tidy in their presence. In Phinuit's
letter she is described as having talked on church matters with a
Mr. Toivn and his sister. There was possibly also a reference to the
existence of a test between Miss Wild and her sister Alice. But
the death-bed letter, as we learn from Professor James, was not
concerned with any of these matters. It will hardly be contended
that there is any proof here of the actual presence of Miss Wild.
(D) ^The last efforts made to obtain the letter, at two sittings
on May 28th and 29th, 1889, when Mrs. Blodgett herself was again
present, were equally unsuccessful. On May 28th Mrs. Blodgett
tested Phinuit with eleven articles, five of which had been used by
her sister. The " influence " of Miss Wild was recognisedi in connec
tion with the five articles which had been used by her, though incorrect
statements were also made concerning them, and Phinuit (rightly) did not
connect her with any of the other six articles. ^ A " waist " was rightly
i The articles were (1) waist, (2) letter, (3) lock of hair, (4) birds' eyes, (5) pin,
(6) glove, (7) stocking, (8) box, (9) ear-spoon, (10) probe, (11) chain. Of these articles.
(1), (8), (9), (10), and (11) had been used by Miss Wild. My notes of the sitting are
specific as to the recognition of (1), (8), (!)), and (11) as Miss Wild's, and my impres
sion is that (10) was also recognised as hers, though my notes do not specifically state
this. Phinuit failed in (2), (a), and (4), was partially right in (5), getting the-
" mother's influence " with it, but said nothing at all about (0) and (7).
14. Mr. M. Hodgson,
said to have belonged to MissWild, but wrongly alleged to have been worn
by her during her sickness. And a piece of chain was rightly said to
have belonged first to Miss Wild's mother and later to Miss Wild, but
wrongly alleged to have been given to Miss Wild by her mother. These
two mistakes were likely mistakes for anyone who was somehow aware
of the connection of the articles in question with particular persons,
but did not otherwise know the related facts ; and Mrs. Blodgett in her
notes has drawn special attention to other points in the sitting that
tell strongly against the presence of the " spirit " of Hannah Wild.
Thus the "birds' eyes" were not recognised "by Hannah'' at all.
The real Hannah Wild, however—although she had never touched
them—yet knew all about them, and had been in the habit of seeing
them for many years. One incident that occurred at the sitting affords
a striking example of what appears to be a frequent resource of
Phinuit. (mrs. Blodgett asked who was present when her sister
wrote the letter. Phinuit began to reply, showed some confusion, and
then abruptly changed the subject, thus diverting Mrs. Blodgett's
thoughts from her question and the answer. Shortly afterwards
Phinuit recurred to the matter, and gave a correct description of the
circumstances. "She wrote the letter on a stand ; you and sister Alice
were there. She sat in a chair with big arms to it ; leant back, tired.^j
It will be remembered that in some of our experiments in thought-
transference the result suggested that the percipient might have been
getting impressions not of the object upon which the agent's attention
was concentrated at the moment, but of the object previously thought
of. In a series of six experiments with diagrams which I made some
years ago, with myself as percipient, the agent, a lady, discarded the
first diagram made by her in two of the experiments, in one case on
the ground that it was too simple, in the other case on the ground that
it was too complicated. She had drawn the figure, then crumpled the
paper and thrown it on one side, and drawn another. In each of these
two cases I got a correct impression of the rejected figure (not of the
adopted figure in any of the trials), aud it may even be that when the
object thought of "at the time" is correctly guessed by the percipient,
the impression is in reality obtained by him not while the object is
perceived by the agent, but during one of those transient mental
departures from the object which no agent can altogether prevent, and
which in truth, in the alternate moments, rentier his own perception of
it more vivid and, strictly speaking, are necessary for any consciousness
of it at all. Now I have observed that Phinuit, when questioned about
points known to the sitter, is accustomed to change the subject of
conversation somewhat abruptly, apparently for the purpose of
absorbing the sitter's waking consciousness by another topic. In the
meantime perhaps he is—for so his behaviour suggests—grasping at
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 15
and surreptitiously examining the experience which he has induced the
sitter to lay on one side.
There is in this sitting also a good illustration of a clumsy attempt
by Phinuit to minimise the serious mistake which he made in saying
that Elizabeth Wild was dead. Mrs. Blodgett had learned that this
lady was still living, and Phinuit's inquiry about her implies that he,
too, had acquired this knowledge—may we not assume from Mrs.
Blodgett at this later sitting ?—and was about to evade if possible the
charge to be brought against him. Making a vague remark about being
" confused " when he made this wrong statement, he changed the
subject, but later referred once more to the " Aunt Elizabeth " and
made some statements about her ill-health, «tc, since ascertained to be
entirely untrue. These statements were made apparently for the
purpose of suggesting to us that Phinuit had confused mere illness
with a death.
On May 29th one intimate question asked by Mrs. Blodgett, viz.,
what had happened to Hannah that Alice only knew, was answered
correctly—that something " about mother " had " happened twice,
and if it happened the third time Hannah would pass out." This
was as much as Mrs. Blodgett knew, and no more was given by
Phinuit, though Hannah knew more about it, and Mrs. Blodgett's
living sister knows more.
The evidence, then, in this series of sittings seems to be very far
from proving the presence of Hannah Wild. Most of the statements
made by Phinuit are explicable on the hypothesis of thought-transfer
ence from Mrs. Blodgett's mind ; even the correct statements made to
myself, months after Mrs. Blodgett had left Boston, Phinuit might
be presumed to have obtained from her during her sitting and stored up
for later use. Still, there are a few circumstances for which this hypo
thesis seems insufficient, and among these it ought to be said that there
are some facts which primd facie seem to support Phinuit's belief that
he is aided in obtaining knowledge by handling articles which have
been used by persons who possess the knowledge. Thus the fact that
Phinuit got the name of Hannah Wild and other connected facts before
Mrs. Blodgett had seen Mrs. Piper at all would be explained if we could
suppose that, by means of the articles sent originally through Professor
James, he got into some relation with Mrs. Blodgett's mind or the mind
of Professor James. It may be noted, too, that the name of John Henry
<or Henry John) Clifford was given (incorrectly given as name of Mrs.
Blixlgett's first husband), while Phinuit was handling a " tidy " which
had been (probably) worked upon by Hannah in the house of Mr. John
Henry Clifford, and, further, that Phinuit seemed to obtain a glimpse
of specific incidents in connection with Mr. Tom and his sister, in
who^e presence Hannah had worked on the tidy. How far the hypo
16 Mr. R. Hodgson.
thesis that these facts suggest can be seriously entertained, I shall
afterwards consider. At present I am chiefly concerned to note the
difficulties in the way of supposing that all Phinuit's statements in
connection with Mrs. Blodgett's experiments can be accounted for by
thought-transference from the mind of the sitter.
The next incident in the reports which suggests that the hypothesis
of thought-transference from the sitter is inadequate is the subject of
No. 15, the announcement to Mre. William James and Mr. Robertson
James that their aunt Mrs. Walsh, in New York, had died that morn
ing, and that Mrs. James would find a "letter or telegram" to that
effect when she got home. But this, as Professor James says (Pro
ceedings, Vol. VI., p. 658), may " have been occasioned by the sitters'
conscious apprehension of the event."i
In Report No. 19, Mr. " A. Y." states that what a certain person
was doing at the tune of the sitting was correctly described, but it seems
possible that this might have been suspected by the sitter. He also
writes that another person was named, and stated to be fatally ill, as
was true, although the fact was not known to Mr. " A. Y." at the time
of the sitting. But here another hypothesis should be mentioned, sug
gested by circumstances which have come to my knowledge concerning
the sittings of the Rev. W. H. Savage and the Rev. M. J. Savage
(Reports, Nos. 26 and 2"), and to which I shall refer later (see p. 35).
Can we be sure that no other friend who knew of the illness had had a
sitting previously and had provided Phinuit telepathically or otherwise
with the information afterwards given to Mr. " A. Y." ? At the
same time, there are cases in which this hypothesis is highly improbable,
such as the case mentioned by Miss Z. (Report, No. 28), who had but
one sitting with Mrs. Piper, for which she made engagement herself
about a week in advance and without giving her name. " In the
midst of other tests " Phinuit suddenly said that he " saw a lady by
the name of Marie or Maria, and in the room with her was, she should
say, her daughter, perhaps, named Estelle or Stella. The lady Maria
had some trouble on the back of her hands and wrists which looked like
eczema." This was practically true, as Miss Z., who was ignorant of
the fact, ascertained by writing to her " Aunt Maria living in Vermont,
some one hundred and fifty miles from Boston, who has a daughter
i Misapprehensions are so easy that I think it well here to remind the reader that
for my present purjiOHe I have dismissed from consideration the hypothesis of imposture
un the part of Mrs. Piper. Referring to the above-mentioned incident from the
barely evidential point of view I wrote in an article in the Forum for April, 1890, that
"it might be alleged that the medium, in Boston, had a confederate in New York,
where the death occurred, who was watching for the death of the aunt, and who
telegraphed to the medium the information that was given to the sitters. This is far
from being my own opinion, but I feel bound to mention the possibility of such an
arrangement."
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 17
Stella." This incident could hardly have been learnt from the mind of
the sitter, as she was unlikely to have heard of the trouble with her
aunt's hands and completely forgotten about it.
The incident narrated in Report No. 29 might have been among
thg most remarkable of the series had contemporary records been
obtainable. It appears from the account that Mrs. W. was told by
Phinuit that her son Nelson—who had been away from home about
seventeen years, from whom she had not heard for three years, and of
whose whereabouts she was ignorant—was coming home, that she
would hear from Nelson within two weeks by a letter from a friend of
Nelson's, and that she would afterwards get a letter from Nelson
himself. These letters came within the stated time, and a later one
(all three from California) announcing his departure for home. The
a-jcount is given by Mrs. D. (sister of Mrs. W.), who states that Mrs.
W. informed her of these details of the sitting immediately on her
return from Mrs. Piper. It is corroborated by Miss Webster (now Mrs.
Browne, see Report No. 39)—known to me—who states that she heard
of the incident from Mrs. D. before Mrs. W,'s son had returned. The
case is a very interesting one, but as the account was written nearly
two years after the event, and we cannot question the sitter, Mrs. W.
herself, who died two months after her son's return, we can hardly use
it as a basis for any new theory as to Phinuit's capacity. It may be
well to point out, however, that the experience, as it stands, seems
explicable on the hypothesis that Phinuit got somehow into relation
with the mind of Mrs. W.'s son Nelson.
Mr. A, J. C. (Report No. 32) was informed that his niece had " a
hutneur, a breaking out." He was unaware of it, and the statement
was correct, but he was also incorrectly told that his sister had trouble
with a tooth.
Another case which loses much of its value from not having been
recorded in writing until a year afterwards is the report (Report No. 34)
given by Mr. and Mrs. " M. N.," both personally known to me, but
not, so far as I am aware, residing in America. According to the
account, the death of Mr. M. N.'s father was foretold as about to
happen in a few weeks. It occurred suddenly a few weeks afterwards,
in England, from heart-failure. Mr. M. N. probably knew that his
father had been suffering from an attack of bronchitis. Two or three
days after the death Phinuit described some of the details of his-
father's will, and claimed to have influenced his father, while yet alive,
on these matters ; but the most extraordinary part of the account is
the statement that Mr. M. N.'s sister in England, who was chiefly at
her father's bedside the last three days of his life, said that her father
" had repeatedly complained of the presence of an old man at the foot
of his bed, who annoyed him by discussing his private affairs." Miss
c
18 Mr. R. Hodgson.
" M. N.'s " testimony, however, at present is only second-hand ; and I
do not recall any other testimony to the apparition of Phinuit (?) except
an incident related by Mrs. Holmes (who assisted me in several experi
ments with Mrs. Piper, see Reports Nos. 45-50), where there is nothing
to show that what was seen was any more than a purely subjective hallu
cination. The receipt of a special letter which Phinuit correctly prophe
sied for Mr. " M. N." might possibly have been anticipated in the sitter's
unconscious mind ; but the statement that a relative had a sore or
wounded thumb—afterwards verified—was probably entirely beyond
the knowledge of the sitters.
Mr. Rich (Report No. 40) was informed of mistakes made by his
coloured cook in the preparation of medicine, and afterwards verified the
statements made by Phinuit, though he was ignorant of the circum
stances at the time of the sitting. He was also informed that he had
a sister who was born dead (premature birth) some years before his own
birth, and, so far as he knew, he first heard of the fact from Phinuit.
He was directed by Phinuit for verification to his " aunts," from one
of whom he did, in fact, obtain confirmation of the statement.
But the strongest evidence that Phinuit is not confined for his in
formation to the knowledge of the sitter is drawn from the records of
experiments with locks of hair and other objects. Ceeteris ]xiribus,
information volunteered, so to speak, by Phinuit, can never be so valu
able evidentially as information obtained in response to determinate
experiment. Thus, for example, the chances that Phinuit may have
ascertained from previous sitters, telepathically or otherwise, the infor
mation desired, are vastly reduced when the choice of subject lies with
the sitters and not with Phinuit. Three notable instances of experi
ment on this line are described by Professor Lodge (Proceedings,
Vol. VI., pp. 458-463), and there are not a few cases in the reports here
quoted. Let us take a brief survey of these.
Discovering somewhat early in my investigation that Phinuit
claimed to obtain special information from locks of hair, which he re
commended should be enclosed in silk or tinfoil, I procured some locks
of hair from friends in England, arranging that I should be ignorant of
their associations. Those which I tried under these conditions were
complete failures (Report No. 41, 1-5). In another case a lady, Mrs. M.,
known to me, sent from England, at my request, a lock of her own hair.
This evoked from Phinuit a general description of character, true as far
as it went, and some other details about which I was ignorant, and
which were chiefly wrong (Report No. 41, 6). These trials, of course,
suggest that when Phinuit does recognise a lock of hair, it is by direct
telepathy, but I venture to think that we must hesitate before adopting
this explanation, as Phinuit's success in " recognising " locks of hair in
many other cases is certainly remarkable. A lock of hair from Hannah
Observations oj Certain Phenomena of Trance. 19
Wild, deceased, was at once recognised (Report No. 10). In another
case (Report No. 12) two locks of hair, known to the sitter, were
given successively to Phinuit. These had been close together for a
short time, and Phinuit complained of their Vieing " mixed." His
remarks about each lock of hair would have been almost entirely
correct, so far as they went, if applied to the other. Miss Savage (Re
port No. 25) took three locks of hair to her sitting. One of them was her
mother's hair ; this was correctly stated by Phinuit, and her mother's
ill-health was correctly diagnosed, other details concerning the family
being also given. These facts were known to Miss Savage. The other
two locks of hair were given to her by Mr. Day, and Miss Savage was
unaware to whom they belonged. One of them was recognised as be
longing to Mr. Day, concerning whom additional facts were given ; but
as Mr. Day had previously had a sitting with Mrs. Piper, we may sup
pose that these statements were possibly reminiscences from this previous
sitting. As to the third lock of hair, Phinuit could only say that it
had not been cut off near the head, and had been handled by too many
people ; and, in fact, it had been cut off near the end of the hair, and
had passed through several people's hands. Miss Z. (Report No. 28)
took two locks of hair, knowing to whom they belonged—her brother
and the Rev. M. J. Savage. It does not appear that Mr. Savage's own
name was given by Phinuit, but he was unmistakably signified by the
names of other members of his family and his relationship to them.
In connection with her brother's hair Miss Z. received her brother's
name—Charlie—and the details of an incident in her brother's life
about his spending a night with Ned M. or N. just before this Ned
died of consumption. All that Miss Z. knew consciously was that
a poor boy of whose last name she was not sure, and whose first name
she had never heard, had died several years before of consumption
and that her brother had been kind to him. She learnt afterwards
from her brother that the statements made at the sitting were true.
Ned's surname began with N. Mrs. G. H. Browne (Report No. 39)
took two locks of hair, apparently knowing from whom they were ob
tained. Phinuit demanded both of these before he described either,
on the ground, seemingly, as he has frequently put it at other
times, that the " influences " had got " mixed," and he wished to dis
entangle them. The characters were correctly given from the locks of
hair and the full name correctly stated in connection with at least one
of them, viz., " Bertram Ellis." Mr. Rich (Report No. 40) took a lock
of hair, knowing that it belonged to a friend's sister, but descriptions
unknown to him were given of persons said to be connected with a fire
(about which the owner of the lock of hair was specially interested and
wished him to inquire), and these descriptions " tallied perfectly with
that of the parties suspected." Again, a lock of hair belonging to a
c 2
20 Mr. R. Hodgson.
friend was at once recognised as his by Phinuit when Mr. Rich pre
sented it. Miss E. G. W, (p. 32) mentions the incident of her sending
a lock of hair of a sick friend from a distance to Mrs. Piper, and the
complete failure of the test. The lock of hair sent to me by Mrs. S.,
from Albany, N.Y., suggested to Phinuit a strange mixture of truth
and error (Report No. 41, 7) ; but the correct statements might have
been chiefly guesses depending upon the fact, known to the sitter
(myself), that the hair was white.
On May 28th, 1891, I gave to Phinuit some hair carefully tied up
with silk ribbon, which h td been in my possession about six months,
and came, as I knew, from a cat which I had seen in Baltimore. It was
given to me while on a visit in Baltimore by a young lady of the family,
with whom the cat was a very great pet. None of the family had ever
seen Mrs. Piper. Of course, I gave no intimation to Phinuit that the
hair was other than human, though this would be revealed by its
colour.
" Lady in connection with this that's passed out of the body not long ago.
I see a big black grey cat, and I see, oh, a funny looking cat, kind of a pet. It
lays down on a rug a good deal. The lady that gave it you . . . it's a
general pet, a big fellow." (Go and try to get cat's name.) "This cat was
ill a little while ago,—didn't eat much. Great big nice fellow. Mary con
nected with it, in body , . . elderly lady, aunt, I think, passed out of body
some time ago. Will get more another time."
At the close of a sitting on June 4th, 1891, 1 asked for the name of
the cat, presenting the hair again.
" Sounds like Pick."
Phinuit then wrote what might be interpreted as Pisk or Disk, but
more probably 7'isk.
" I think it's Pete,—P—e—t—e. No, Peek."
On July 10th, 1891, I tried the hair again, and Phinuit said :
"Name sounds like Pick. Girl has headaches a good deal in sur
roundings of this one. . . . There's four of them, five of them. One
of them's away. Think it's a cousin ; think they call him Fred. The lady
Mary wears glasses, you know, occasionally."
The cat is of enormous size, of uniform purplish grey colour (no
black). Mary is the first name of the mother of the family to whom
the cat belongs. This I had forgotten, but knew " subconsciously," as
it appeared in her signature to the account of some experiences which
I had read, her first names being written Mary E. The cat's name, as
I knew, was Dick, and that Phinuit should finally give Pick for
Dick is curious in connection with the precisely similar approxima
tion in the case of Professor Richet's dog. (Proceedings, Vol. VI.,
p. 620.)
Immediately after the sitting on May 28th, I wrote to the lady who
gave me the cat's hair, who informed me that there had not been any
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 21
death of an " elderly lady aunt," and there had not been " deaths of
flny such members of the family for years " ; also that the statements
about the cat (on May 28th) were " not correct in any one particular";
also that the Mary in her mother's name " was completely dropped, and
to her family and friends she has always been Lily and Lizzie " (her
name being Mary Elizabeth). To my further inquiries, after the later
sittings, I have received no reply. I vaguely recalled having seen
Mrs. [X.] wear glasses, but could not recall having heard that either of
the daughters had headaches. On these points I have learnt through a
friend [November 2nd, 1891] that Mrs. [X.] does wear glasses
" occasionally, but not regularly," and that the daughter who gave me
the hair " has suffered from terrible headaches until recently." I have
not yet succeeded in obtaining information concerning the other points
mentioned.
But it is not merely " locks of hair " that appear to set Phinuit on
the track of events that may or may not be known to the sitters. Any
object, if it has been handled or worn much and almost exclusively by
specific persons, seems to serve equally well. Indeed, though not
enough experiments in this direction have as yet been tried to
warrant me in making any final statement about this, the conclusion
is strongly suggested that on this path Phinuit is most reliable, though
not by any means infallible. At least I think that he is much more
likely to succeed with the help of such objects than without them. It
is quite conceivable, of course, that Phinuit's belief that such articles
act as clues may itself influence his success, even though that belief
be merely subjective.
At my fourth sitting (Report No. 4) Phinuit was able to tell me
that I had "lost something," and after handling my keys gave a
fairly detailed description of the place in the mountains where I had
lost a bunch of keys, between two or three months previously ; but,
oddly enough, he insisted that the keys were still in the mountains,
much as if a picture of the place had been suggested to him with the
keys lying there as a part of the scene ; and this, moreover, after the
keys had been returned to me. Somewhat similar was Phinuit's
detection that Mr. Derham (Report No. 9) had lost a " funny round
thing, a ring thing . . . black fellow got it," Mr. Derham
having left his field-glass in the train at Niagara, and suspecting that
the conductor, a coloured man, had taken it. But in this case it does
not appear whether Phinuit obtained a " clue " from some specific
object worn by Mr. Derham at the sitting, or, without such help, by
direct telepathy. In the experiment made by Mrs. Blodgett (Report
No. 10) the name Hannah Wild was correctly given by Phinuit as the
wearer of a glove and a hat-lining, but, besides this, Phinuit made a
large number of other statements in connection with Hannah Wild,
Mr. R. Hodgaon.
nearly all of which were wrong. At later sittings other articles belonging
to Hannah Wild were immediately recognised as hers. (See Report
No. 10, and see also pp. 11-15). The stone presented by Miss Z.
(Report No. 28) apparently afforded a clue to the personality and
surroundings of the owner, and possibly to the circumstances under
which he first obtained it. The "piece of embroidery" tried by Mr.
Rich (Report No. 40) produced the name of the sailor who made it.
More important still, Mr. Rich took a box, of the contents of which
he knew nothing, and Phinuit described correctly the person X. who
gave Mr. Rich the box, the person Y. who had provided X. with the
article for the experiment, and the person Q. who had given the article
to Y. The article in the box was described by Phinuit as a " charm "
and "glittering," and as having been brought from "far off over the
sea " ; it was a carved " but not glittering " button brought from
Japan, and " latterly worn as a charm with a gold attachment." Mr.
Rich also tried a dog's collar, with which Phinuit got the description
of the dog and his names, Rover and Grover, these circumstances being
known to Mr. Rich. Miss Edmunds (Report No. 43) was correctly told
that her locket brought her grandmother's " influence," and that she
had had it since she was a little girl, also that her watch had been
given by her father to her aunt, who had given it to her ; these state
ments being made after Phinuit had handled the objects. A little box
in which her father used to keep coins was also recognised as having
contained " little shiny things " and having been connected with her
father. At a sitting on June 25th I presented a bookmark which
Miss Edmunds had placed between cards to prevent injury, and the
history of which was known to her but not to me. Phinuit recognised
Miss E.'s "influence" in the cards, but was completely wrong about
the bookmark. At a later sitting Miss E. herself took the bookmark,
and Phinuit obtained its " associations " : that it was connected with a
little girl pupil—described—of Miss E. ; that Miss E. had heard from
her when she was ill ; that she was dead. The names Emma and
Maria were given, and a message was offered from Maria to Emma, and
Gideon was said to be a cousin. These statements were correct, Maria
being the girl's name, and Emma the name of her mother. All these
circumstances were known to Miss E. Two other statements about
which Miss E. was ignorant were made in connection with the book
mark, and she has not yet been able to ascertain whether they are true
or not.
The pen which Mrs. C. presented (Report No. 44) was at once
recognised as bringing the " influence " of her deceased husband, and
Phinuit was conscious of another article on the person of Mrs. C. that
was also her husband's, and finally named the watch. " Your husband
says it's his watch, but it's not his chain." Mrs. C. had temporarily
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 23
forgotten that she was wearing her husband's watch, which she had
carried for about a month, having broken her own. She had taken her
husband's chain off and put her own on.
Now some of these incidents are explicable on the hypothesis of
direct telepathy from the sitter, though even in these the object seems
to serve in some way as a link of association ; but in others this hypo
thesis is inadequate, as in the case of the box taken by Mr. Rich. The
evidence, of course, in the cases which I have thus briefly summarised is
too slender to afford a substantial conclusion, but the experiments
recorded in the last series of sittings—those held since Mrs. Piper's
return to America—go far to confirm the view that it is not necessary
that the sitter should be aware of the associations of the object, but
that contact with the object itself, independently of the sitter, in some
way enables Phinuit to obtain correct information concerning its
associations.
In experiments 1 made in connection with Mrs. Holmes (pp. 139, 1 40),
the first two locks of her hair presented—the one by myself who knew
to whom it belonged, and the other by Miss R. who knew nothing
about it—both failed as clues ; but a third lock, which—unlike the
others—had been cut close to the head, was immediately recognised by
Phinuit as the "same influence." I presented this on June 5th, 1891,
at the latter part of the sitting (the first part of which had been
occupied by the objects sent to me by Mr. "V.," see p. 132), and
Phinuit at once began to make statements which suggested that he was
getting veridical glimpses of some kind owing to the lock of hair.
Among other things Phinuit stated that the owner "had something the
matter with her foot " and that she " had to have something done to it
not long since "; and it is a curious coincidence that the letter of Mrs.
Holmes accompanying the hair mentioned an accident to her son's foot,
and also enclosed a letter from this son describing the accident. I may
have read these letters hastily, when I received them, on June 4th, the
day before the sitting, but could not recall the incident of the "foot."
I draw attention here to a " trivial " circumstance, which in itself
proves nothing, because I think it, nevertheless, may indicate a possible
cause of some of Phinuit's mistakes, or apparent mistakes. At one of
my early sittings I handed Phinuit an envelope addressed to myself, con
taining a letter. Phinuit gave a correct general description of the
writer and gave the single name William in connection with it. This,
though correct, was, of course, not remarkable, but Phinuit went on
then to describe a lady also in connection with it—tall, fair, &c. Later
on in the sitting I gave Phinuit another envelope, and after handling it
he at once exclaimed that this was the " influence " he had described
previously in connection with " the gentleman " ; that I had got them
24 J/r. R. Hodgson.
" mixed " ; that it had nothing to do with him. The description as first
given did suit the writer of the second letter, viz., Mrs. Piper herself.i
Returning to the experiment of June 5th, some of the correct state
ments made by Phinuit concerned matters known to me, but of most of
them I was ignorant, and Phinuit was wrong in describing the hair as
grey and black, whereas I knew that it was grey and brown-gold.
Similarly, most of the statements at the later sittings referred to matters
unknown to me, though I had visited Mrs. Holmes, had seen the house
and surroundings, and met the members of her daughter's family. I had
also met Miss Eleanor or Ella B., whose first name was given as Ella by
Phinuit. The apparent success of Phinuit in locating Mrs. Holmes at
the sitting of June 10th led to my requesting her to make notes of her
doings on June 15th at the time of my sitting. This, unfortunately,
she did not do until after she had received my report of the sitting.
According to her annotations, the following statements made by Phinuit
were approximately correct as regards her doings close to and during
the hour of the experiment, but Phinuit's description did not coincide
exactly in time with her actions, but were given about half an hour later.
Phinuit stated that she trimmed some flowers and put them in a vase ;
that she sat down at a desk to write, and that Charles Was on the
paper in front of her ; that she went to the window to speak to a man,
that she pulled something down at the window and returned to the desk ;
that she " pawed over a box of things." Phinuit also stated, incor
rectly, that she had a parcel like a book in her hand that she had been
reading, had thrown a wrap over her head, had on a dark dress with
little light spots in it, was doing something to a picture, and, later, was
doing something with a brush.
The correct statements appeared to be so much more than could
be due to chance that I requested Mrs. Holmes to write out her doings
between 11.15 and 12.30 on June 23rd and 24th, sign the record and
obtain the corroborative signature of her daughter, Mrs. K., and mail
her account at once to Professor H. P. Bowditch, to whom also on
the day of the experiment I sent a copy of my notes of Phinuit's
statements concerning the doings of Mrs. Holmes. These two sittings
I regard as failures on the part of Phinuit to see what Mrs. Holmes
was doing at the time, but to the student of the detailed accounts
(Reports Nos. 45 to 49), with the comments of Mrs. Holmes, it will, I
think, be strongly suggested that Phinuit in some way was getting
i I asked Phinuit whether the writer of this second letter was "in the body " or
"in spirit." He replied at once, "In the body," but added: "Why, no; that's
curious. There she is in the spirit, talking to an old lady." This appeared to be
wilder Phinuit, who, after some soliloquising and mumbling, went on to another sub
ject. Several times at the close of later sittings he referred to the " medium " as
"coming back," "laughing," "asking questions," " trying to touch the sitter," &c
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 25
glimpses into the mind of Mrs. Holmes, was reading off some of her
past experiences (i.e., past before the moment of Phinuit's statements),
<ind that some of these occurred as recently as, say, half an hour
previously ; though certainly Phinuit was not' clairvoyantly then and
there perceiving what Mrs. Holmes was doing.
A similar conclusion is suggested by the attempts of Phinuit
to describe my doings on July 1st (Report No. 50), and the doings of
Mrs. Holmes and myself on July 6th (Report No. 51). In this sitting
of July 6th, 1891, Phinuit located me incorrectly at two different
places, his description of which indicates circumstances of my holi
days in the summer of 1890, and although, after handling the envelope
addressed by me, Phinuit corrected these mistakes and located me in
my own rooms, he may have acquired this information through the
leading question asked intentionally by Miss Edmunds, who knew
where I was. Still, even in this case, and putting on one side the
knowledge that he may have obtained telepathically or otherwise
from Miss Edmunds concerning my doings, Phinuit seems to have
given more correct information concerning my actual doings than can
be accounted for by mere chance ; that is to say, if as much success
were obtained in a large number of experiments, we should infer that
Phinuit was exhibiting some supernormal faculty beyond that of
thought-transference from the sitter.
This general conclusion is greatly strengthened by the results
of a sitting on October 16th, 1891 (Report No. 53). Miss A.
took with her to the sitting three articles, of the history of which
she knew nothing—a locket, a ring, and a watch. The locket she
obtained the evening before through a lady friend whom she met
by accident in the street. This friend, at Miss A.'s request for
a " personal article of an individual unknown to her," called at the
office of a gentleman whom Miss A. had never seen (she " knew only
his surname in a casual way ") and procured from him the locket. It
was wrapped in a paper envelope, and Miss A. did not look at it till
the sitting was over. Inter alia, the owner of the locket was correctly
described as being physically well, handsome, of light hair and com
plexion, as having a big head, and as being immensely extravagant, as
writing and dictating (letters, itc.) a great deal. Phinuit stumbled
round and about the names Joseph and George in his attempts to get
the owner's Christian name, mentioning both (and also we must add
Judson) without affirming either to be the name. Joseph George were
the owner's first names. After the locket was opened, which con
tained a picture of the owner's mother on one side and some hair of
his father and mother on the other, Phinuit correctly got the father's
and mother's " influence " from the hair, and apparently connected
the name Elizabeth with the hair and the picture, Elizabeth
20 Mr. B. Hodgson.
being the name of the owner's mother. There seemed, indeed, to be
some confusion between the " influences " of the owner and those of his
mother ; and in connection with the latter, apparently, various names
were given, of which the owner knows nothing. He knows, however,
very little of his mother's family, and apparently is not interested
enough to make the inquiries necessary for corroboration.
Miss A. knew, but not intimately, the owner of the ring and the
watch. Phinuit said that the ring brought a bad influence—that there
was an insane lady connected with it who began to lose her mind at
an early age, and that another person connected with it died with
cancer. Concerning the watch Phinuit said that it came across the
water many years ago, had been in Italy ; that it had the influence of
a gentleman who had died ; that the owner had a sister named Annie.
The name Elizabeth, Eliza, Lizzie was given in connection with the
watch. Phinuit said that he saw the watch in a box with other
trinkets kept in cotton. The names, John, Joseph, and Jennie were
finally given. All these details proved to be correct, except the name
Jennie, the owner's mother being named Jesse [Jessie ?].
The name of a relative Henry was given as having been connected
with some " printing " establishment, and also the name Davis. It
was further stated that a Henry gave the watch to Elizabeth. I pre
sume that these details are incorrect, though the report is not quite
clear upon this point. The present owner was wrongly called a man.
The ring and watch, it appears, were kept in the same box. John, a
"bad character," had given the ring to the present owner, who suspected
him of having stolen it. John's father had repudiated a debt to the
owner's mother ; he died of cancer in the stomach. The owner's sister,
named Elizabeth, and called Eliza and Lizzie, suffered a great fright at
the age of three years, from being left alone in a burning house, and
" gradually became entirely idiotic." She was for many years under
the sole charge of the owner of the ring, and as the watch amused her,
it was frequently given to her by the present owner's mother, to whom
it came at the death of the uncle Joseph. The watch, Geneva make,
had been Ixmght abroad by Joseph, who lived for some time in Italy.
Several additional correct statements which were made in connection
with the articles, but not mentioned in the report, were regarded as
too private for publication.
Miss A.'s own view appears to be a form of that suggested by several
previous reports, and particularly in connection with Mrs. Blodgett's.
experiments, that the information given by Phinuit was obtained in
some way from the objects themselves, to the exclusion, that is, of
individual minds either of the living or the dead. Miss A. stated, in
reply to my inquiry, that Phinuit did not profess to obtain his infor
mation (concerning the objects) from " spirits." " He gave no intima
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 27
tion that he was getting his facts from anyone, ' in ' or ' out of the
body ' ; the impression conveyed was rather that he was ferreting about
for himself in some obscure way for the information asked." It is
probable, however, that if Phinuit had been questioned on this point he
would have claimed that his information was derived from the deceased.
Thus (March 21st, 1888) : Phinuit : " Who's Margaret in your family ?"
R. H. : "Can't you tell me that?" Phinuit: "It's your mother."
[Correct.] R. H. : "Who told you that ? " Phinuit : " Your father."
Again, I placed in Phinuit's hands a pencil-case with the initials
J. B. upon it, saying that I had received it from a friend who wanted
to be told who gave it to him. The name of John B was given
correctly, but he has a middle name which was not given at all. (That
he had a middle name was known to me at the time, though I cannot
recall that I had ever heard what it was, beyond the initial letter.)
Then :—
" George gave it to him. I get the influence of Elinor and Palline, and
a young man. No, it wasn't George, cross that out. It was Harry or
Henry, and Harry's sister's influence was connected with it before he gave it
to him. That is all I can tell you." "How did you get to know this?"
" J B 's wife in spirit told me. She's gone away now."
Pauline is the name of Mr. B.'s eldest daughter, and Eleanor is the
name of one of her most intimate friends. But Miss B. and two other
members of Mr. B.'s family (not himself) had previously had a sitting
each with Mrs. Piper, and the names Eleanor and Pauline had been
given at Miss B.'s sitting, at which her mother, deceased, was also
referred to. All that was correct was in my mind, consciously or
subconsciously, but what I desire specially to emphasise here is that
while Phinuit's language—about " getting the influence," &c.—did not
suggest the "spirit" hypothesis, but rather the contrary, he claimed,
on being questioned, that he received his information from a " spirit."
Further, he has recently expressly disclaimed any power of obtain
ing information from objects themselves independently of specific
personalities.
§ 5. Clairvoyance and Prophecy.
At different times, I have tried a few experiments for " clairvoy
ance," presenting envelopes containing writing unknown to me, and
turning the hands of a hunting-watch so that I should be ignorant
of their position. Phinuit disclaimed any ability to tell the contents
of the letters, but thought he could " feel," through the case of the
watch, the positions of the hands. The results, however, on that
occasion did not justify his belief, and I did not repeat the watch
experiments. (See Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 457.)
Several incidents recounted in the reports suggest that Phinuit may
have " prophetic " power (see especially the cases related by Miss W.,
28 Mr. R. Hodgson.'
p. 34, and Reports Nos. 34 and 36), but there are other cases, besides those
mentioned in the report, where Phinuit has made specific prophecies
which were unfulfilled, and without a tolerably complete record of both
the fulfilled and the unfulfilled predictions, we cannot conclude that his
successes, allowing for supernormal knowledge of the present, are more
than would be due to chance. But I think that while there is no
evidence at present worth detailed consideration, for the view that
Phinuit possesses any power of premonition, in the strict sense of the
term, there is enough evidence to make it desirable to record his
"prophecies" most carefully in future.
§ 6. The "Spirit" Hypothesis concerning Phinuit and other
" Controls."
It now becomes necessary to take into more direct consideration
the assertion which Phinuit persistently makes concerning himself and
his communications, that he is the " spirit " of a once but no longer
living human being, that he occupies Mrs. Piper's organism during her
trance, and receives direct messages from the " spirit " friends of the
sitters. This, as is known to the readers of the previously published
reports, is the invariable form of Mrs. Piper's trance, save that other
" controls," who also profess to be " spirits " of once living human
beings, occasionally take the place of Phinuit.
Now, the status to be assigned to Phinuit will depend, partly on his
own account of himself—with verification or otherwise—our opinion of
his veracity, the conclusions we may reach concerning his " powers," &c,
and also upon the impressions produced by the other alleged "controls."
There appear to be at least three instances of other " controls " in the
following reports (Reports Nos. 16, 30, and 40. Bee also Report No.
35). But the fullest account which I have received concerning other
" controls " is given by Miss W., a most excellent and discriminating
witness. Other members of her family have also had sittings with
Mrs. Piper, and they form such an important contribution to our study
of Mrs. Piper's trance personality that I quote Miss W.'s account in
this part of my article.i Miss W. has had forty-five sittings with Mrs.
i My attention was first called to the sittings of the W. family by a message given
by Phinuit in the latter part of January, 1890, while Mrs. Piper was in England, and
forwarded to me by Mr. Myers. " Little Katie \V. is very sorry (in the spirit world)
that the little dog Gyp has been run over and had its foot hurt. Her father
{William W. ) has had a cold, but is better." Mr. \V.'s address was sent to me, having
been obtained from Mrs. Piper. I wrote to Mr. W., informing him that I had
received a message from his daughter through Mrs. Piper, but wished, before deliver
ing it, to ask him some questions. He called upon me on February 11th, m'M. H. :
" Have you a little dog Gyp! " \V. : " Yes." H. : " Is he all right ? :' W. : " So
far as I know ; he was all right when I left home this morning." H. : " Gyp has not
had any accident within the last few weeks?" W. : "No; he had an accident last
fall some time. He was run over by a milk-cart, and one of his toes was nearly cut
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance.
Piper between November, 1886, and June, 1889. She has witnessed'
four controls—Phinuit, her mother's stepmother, and two friends.
These personalities appeared very different from one another. Miss
W. has made a careful record of her sittings, usually taking notes,
during the sitting, and writing out her detailed account the same day.
Her father has also had many sittings, unfortunately not recorded, at
most of which his daughter Katy, who died in 1871, when but three
months old, purported to control directly. Her mother has had one
sitting, not recorded, and her sister, Miss M. A. W., has had three or
four sittings, also not recorded. Miss W. states that the majority of
her own sittings contained practically no indifferent matter, but some
of them contained a good deal of irrelevant talk such as might have
come from a stranger to her, although her personal friends purported
to be speaking ; and on these occasions, although the thread, so to say,
of the personality was kept up, there was nothing that actually sug
gested the actual presence of her friends. She has received at the
sittings numerous correct statements of facts concerning herself and
her friends, living and dead, and, among them, many which she regards
as too personal for publication. Especially, allusions have been made
to circumstances known to no person living but herself, yet known to
the person from whom they purported to come, and who had died,
between one and two years previously,
Miss E. G. W.'s Account of Sittings with Mrs. Piper.
My forty-five sittings with Mrs. Piper cover the period from November
12th, 1886, to June 19th, 1889. In forty-one of these the control was taken,
for at least a part of the hour, by a personal friend whoso subjects of con
versation, forms of expression, and ways of looking at things were distinctly
unlike either Mrs. Piper's or Dr. Phinuit's. The clearly-marked personality
of that friend, whom I will call T., is to me the most convincing proof of
Mrs. P.'s supernatural power, but it is a proof impossible to present to any
one else. Messages, in some instances characteristic, were received from
off." H. : " Was this referred to by Mrs. riper?" W. : "I have no remembrance
of any such reference ; indeed, I do not think I had a sitting with Mrs. Piper after
the accident occurred."
H. : " How has your health been ? " W. : " Pretty good." H. : " Have you had
a cold ?" W, : " Well, I had a cold in about the latter part of November, and it
held on so tenaciously that I thought I might have to go South." H. : " When did
you recover from it ? " W. : " Well, it was worked off very slowly ; if I had to
state the time when I recovered from it, I should say, perhaps a month ago."
Further conversation made it clear that the accident to the dog occurred before
Mrs. Piper left America in 1889, but it appears that no members of Mr. W.'s family
saw Mrs. Piper between the time of the accident and Mrs. Piper's departure for
England.
Mr. W. mentioned some incidents which had occurred at his own sittings, and
stated that one of his daughters, then in Italy, had made careful note3 of her
experiences. This led to my obtaining an account from Miss W. herself.
30 Mr. R. Hodgson.
other friends, but no long-sustained conversations were held save with T.
and Dr. Phinuit. T., who was, while living, a Congregational minister,
talked of religious subjects (of which Phinuit disclaimed either interest or
knowledge), of professional matters, of our large circle of mutual acquaint
ances, and of many private affairs known only to himself and me.
T. was a Western man, and the localism of using like as a conjunction
clung to him, despite my frequent correction, all his life. At my sitting on
December 16th, 1886, he remarked, " If you could see it like I do." For
getful for the instant of changed conditions, I promptly repeated, "As I
ilo." "Ah," came the response, "that sounds natural. That sounds like
old times."
March 1st, 1888, he requested, "Throw off this rug," referring to a
loose fur-lined cloak which I wore. I noted the word as a singular designa
tion for such a garment, and weeks after recalled that he had once, while
living, spoken of it in the same way as I threw it over him on the lounge.
February 18th, 1887, T. remarked, " I like your arrangement here,"
referring to a new gown by a term which he was wont to use.
March 2nd, 1887, came this : "I never knew you had a little sister here.
She tells me she has been here a long time, ever since she was a little
toddling baby." Certainly not I, nor Mrs. P., who has children of her own,
would speak of a four months old child as a " toddling baby." It is more
thinkable of a man who, like T., never knew anything of young children.
I have received from T., dictated through Mrs. P. to her husband and
sent me by post, seven letters at intervals from November 29th, 1886, to
January 22nd, 1889. Each contains some unintelligible matter, but each
contains familiar allusions and the old-time opening and closing phrases,
either of which is too long and individual to have been merely chanced upon.
The post-office address of the first is worth mention. Mrs. P. had learned
from me neither name nor residence, nor had any other than my pet name,
Nellie, been given at the sittings. On November 16th, 1886, Dr. P. told
me that T. was dictating a letter to me. "How will you address it?" I
asked. " T. knows your address and will give it to the medium." November
29th, a friend, who had been sitting with Mrs. P. , brought me word that
the promised letter had been mailed to—
Miss Nellie Wilson,
Care David Wilson,
Reading, Mass.
By applying at the post-office at Reading I was able to obtain the letter.
I alter the names, but these points may be noted :—
1. My surname is given correctly.
2. I have a cousin, David Wilson, of whose relationship and friendship
T. was well aware. His home, however, has always been in New York.
3. Reading was my home during my childhood and youth, but I removed
from it thirteen years ago. I knew T. only subsequent to that removal.
4. While living there I wrote my name with the diminutive, Nellie, but
since then have preferred to write my baptismal name Ella, or merely tho
initial E. T. was wont to use the initials merely.
At my next sitting, November 30th, I inquired about this mongrel address.
"T. was not strong enough," said Phinuit, " to direct where the letter should
be sent, but he thought your cousin David would attend to your getting it.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 31
Your other friends here helped us on the rest of the address." " But they
would not tell you to send to Reading." "Yes, they would, they did. It
was Mary told us that." "Nonsense," said I, thinking of a sister of that
name. " Not Mary in the body. Mary in the spirit." " But I have no such
friend." " Yes, you have. It was Mary L.—Mary E.—Mary E. Parker told
us that." I then recalled a little playmate of that name, a next door neighbour,
who moved away from Reading when I was ten years old, and of whose death
I learned a few years later. I had scarcely thought of her for twenty years.
The "E." in the name I have not verified.
I quote two tests of partial clairvoyance. March 2nd, 1887, I was asked
by my mother to inquire the whereabouts of two silver cups, heirlooms,
which she had misplaced. Said Dr. P. : " They are in your house, in a room
higher up than your sleeping room, in what looks to me the back part of
the house, but very likely I am turned round. You'll find there a large chest
filled with clothing, and at the very bottom of the chest are the cups. Annie
[my mother's name] placed them there and will remember it." Returning
home I went to a room on the third floor at the front of the house, but
remotest from the stairway, found the chest (of which I knew) and the con
tents (of which I was ignorant) both as described, but no silver. Reporting
the message to my mother I learned that she had at one time kept the cups
in that chest, but more recently had removed them.
February 11th, 1887, my sister L. wished me to ask Phinuit where she
should find her missing card-plate. To be thoroughly explicit, I took her
calling-card with me and placed it in Mrs. P.'s hand, inquiring, " Where is
the plate from which this is engraved ?" Phinuit replied, "You will find it
in a box with a brush and a bottle. The box is in the house where you live,
in a drawer under something that looks like a cupboard or closet or some
thing of that sort. There are soft things cluttered up in the drawer." L.
and I searched together all possible places, and finally concluded that the
" cupboard or closet " might be the stationary washstand in her bedroom
which is set into a recess with shelves above and drawers below. The second
of these three drawers, of whose contents I knew nothing, we found filled
with loose pieces of woollen and muslin, and under these pieces a small box.
The box contained specified box and bottle, but instead of L.'s card-plate her
stencil-plate. We subsequently wondered that the mention of brush and
bottle had not forewarned us of this mistake, but it had not.
I am asked if I have any indications that Mrs. P. is ignorant of her
utterances during the trance. These five instances may bear on that :—
1. November 26th, 1886, Phinuit, on taking control, tasted for several
seconds and then began, "The medium has been eating that nasty thing,
what do you call it ? " I had perceived no odour, but suggested " onions."
"Yes, that's it, you must excuse it." After the trance I asked Mrs. P. if
she had eaten onions lately. She said she had yesterday, and asked was it
possible that any unpleasantness lingered in her breath ?
2. March 2nd, 1887, T. controlling, remarked, "The medium's hand
feels numb. I can't use it well. It doesn't seem natural."1 I rubbed it a
i At a sitting which I attended on February 20th, 1888, Phinuit declared that
one of his thumbs " belonged to the medium," and added, " I cannot move
that."—R. H.
32 Mr. R. Hodgson.
little and got the acknowledgment, " That helps it. " I asked Mrs. P. later-
if her hand was hurt, and she said, "No," adding after a moment, "I
jammed it slightly this morning, but the pain was gone long ago."
3. At the same sitting T. narrated how a few days before when he was
dictating a letter to me "there were some things about her ears I didn't
like." "Earrings?" "Yes. They got in my way and I couldn't hear
well. You never wore such things and I never did, so I asked the gentle
man in her surroundings [Mr. Piper] to have them removed." This incident
was substantiated.
4. More than once in the winter of 1886-1887 T. spoke gratefully of " the
medium's great kindness in letting me come and talk with you." To this I
always assented. From my sitting of February 18th I quote, " Tell me,
how is it about talking with me here ? Do you pay anything to come
here ? "
5. March 15th, 1887, T. observed, " This medium is good and true. I
am glad to say that because I used to think she was a fraud. Do you
remember?" " No; I didn't know you ever said so"—thinking only of
communications received through her. Why, yes, last summer, when
you sent her a lock of my hair. Don't you remember?" I then recalled
that during T.'s fatal illness in June, 1886, I had won his reluctant consent
to send Mrs. P. a lock of his hair. I first heard of her at that time, and
faintly hoped that a clairvoyant might diagnose a malady which physicians,
had failed to reach. The diagnosis proved worthless, and T. had freely
characterised the whole thing as trickery and fraud. I have never mentioned
that correspondence to Mrs. P., and since I wrote her from a distant city,
she is not likely to have associated it with me.
Somewhat analogous to the incident of the bruised hand is this :—A
friend, H., was visiting me who during his childhood and youth had been
paralysed throughout his left side. He had so far recovered that a slight limp
and a little awkwardness in the use of the left hand were the only indica
tions of the illness. H., interested in our account of Mrs. P., arranged for
a sitting, but, alone among the many whom I have sent to her, was disap
pointed ; the trance would not come on. He went again in the evening,
October 23rd, 1887, and I went with him to establish communication. He
had a long and, he assured me, satisfactory conversation with Dr. Phinuit,
during which no allusion was made to his former invalidism, or to the failure
of the morning. At my next sitting, Dr. Phinuit asked, "Who was that
here with you the other day ? A fine fellow, but I found him very hard to
talk with. Some queer things about him. All the way down this side
[indicating the left] I couldn't get hold of him or get any magnetism from
him. But I would not be so impolite as to tell him so." Unwonted reserve
for Dr. Phinuit !
These three cases suggesting clouded vision of physical things interested
me :—
1. December 16th, 1886, I mentioned to T. that I had recently met D.,
a former acquaintance of his, and asked if he remembered him. " Yes, I
remember D., but not in your present surroundings, nor in X. [referring to a
former home]. It was in D. 's surroundings that I knew you first, but not in
his home. He has not a church, but a large house, an institution to take
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 33
charge of." My request for fuller particulars was met by a promise to think
of the matter and tell me at my next visit. December 21st, T. introduced
the subject, saying, " I was to remember about D. It was in his institution
that I met you first. I think the institution was for poor people, sick
people." " No, that is wrong." " I cannot tell why it seems to me like a
hospital, unless because so many of the people that I'm working among here
have come from hospitals." I first met T. when he was visiting at a Western
college, of which D. was president and I a teacher.
2. February 11th, 1887, T. remarked, " I saw you lately working at
your desk with your back toward the window, the light. But what is that
large piece of furniture at the right of the door in your room ? " For the
purpose of misleading I suggested, "A table?" "No, that is at the left."
After several leading questions from me he concluded it might be the book
case, which it was. Question from me: "If you see the furniture so
indistinctly, are you quite sure whom you saw at the desk ? " An emphatic
affirmative, with a denial of any analogy between me and the book-case.
3. Late in June, 1887, Mrs. Piper went yachting with us for an after
noon. At my next sitting, July 1st, T. said, " I saw you with the medium
the other day riding along in a very large vehicle of some sort. I could not
make out what. It moved so quietly and gently, 'twas as if on a carpet.
But it was not. It was clear, and I could see into it." " Was it a carriage?"
" Oh, no ; larger than that. And it was not moving on the ground, either."
"A balloon, perhaps?" "No, I couldn't see as clearly as if it had been air."
" Well, if neither earth nor air, it must have been " " Water, of course.
That was it. You were in a boat. Strange that I could not see it ! "
The scepticism of one, B., with whom he had much in common, had
seemed a matter of concern to T. He spoke of it November 26th, 1886 : " I
remember how we used to talk about this [spirit-control], and how set against
it B. was—like a wall. He thinks so yet." December 16th, 1886, he again
introduced the matter, saying, " I notice your father has a letter from B.
How strongly he holds his old notions. He's determined not to admit any
thing in this, isn't he ? " The letter, whose contents were correctly sum
marised, was received by my father that very morning. I did not know of
its arrival until my return home after this sitting. In July, 1887, B. visited
my father and the two had a sitting with Mrs. P. At my next visit, August
5th, T. thus spoke of it : "I have seen B. He seems changed and so-
inquisitive. I do not remember him so. But he seemed to think me
different." I learned afterward from my father that B.'s conversation had
been a bombardment of questions.
On one occasion my mother went with my father to Mrs. P.'s. On
my next visit, August 15th, 1887, T. spoke of it with pleasure, but
added : " This seemed so strange. A little while after she was here I heard
her say to your father, ' It did not really seem like T.' It was on the piazza
that she said it. " I verified this on reaching home. Nothing of the sort
had been said to me.
January 5th, 1888, I was told, "Here is somebody who says he is your
grandfather. He is tall, wears glasses, and is smooth-shaven." " Whioh
grandfather 1 " " He gives his name F." " Yes, it must be my grandfather
F., if smooth-shaven." "Well, it is. But do you mean that your grand-
D
34 Mr. R. Hodgson.
father E. wears a beard?" "Yes." "I think you must be mistaken."
"No ; I am sure that he did." " I never see him so, and I see him often."
My grandfather E. died before my birth, but I felt sure that he had been
described to me as full-bearded, like his son. But my father, when appealed
to, disappointed me. " No, you are wrong," he said; "I am like him in
figure and features, but not in cut of beard. He was always smooth-shaven."
Here are the most significant prophecies. There have been others, ful
filled and unfulfilled—about half of each.
In the autumn of 1886 my young brother, K., started in business. He had
had slight experience, had given no marked promise, and those who knew
him best were not confident of success. At my first sitting, November 12th,
1886, Dr. Phinuit's first words were of K., calling him by name and assuring
me that he was bound to get on ; there was no trouble about him. He would
do finely. At nearly every sitting during the winter Phinuit recurred to the
subject, asserting, with laughable emphasis, " K.'s the fellow for me. He'll
get on ; he'll get to the top. He may not care so much for books as some of
you, but he's sure to succeed." K., while not yet at " the top," has wholly
disappointed the fears of his friends, and has established (March, 1891) an
influential and profitable business.
On January 5th, 1887, T. brought me the message : " N. is here and has
something to tell you. She says O. is to be married in the spring." N. was
a friend who had died five years before, and whose widowed husband, O., I
saw not infrequently. " Preposterous ! " I replied. " It cannot be N. who
tells me that." " She does not ask you to believe it. She simply asks you
to hear it. She knows you would rather hear it from her than from any
other source. And she would like, too, that you should remember it as a
little test that it is she who is speaking to you." Then followed a somewhat
extended conversation in which N. took positions which I was forced to
admit were characteristic. Her first assertion, however, was so violently
improbable to my mind that I attached little importance to it all. The
prophesied marriage occurred, however, in the following June.
In the spring of 1888, an acquaintance, S., was suffering torturing
ilisease. There was no hope of relief, and only distant prospect of release.
A consultation of physicians predicted continued physical suffering and
probably mental decay, continuing perhaps through a series of years. S.'s
.daughter, worn with anxiety and care, was in danger of breaking in health.
"How can I get her away for a little rest?" I asked Dr. Phinuit, May 24th,
1888. " She will not leave her father," was his reply, " but his suffering is
not for long. The doctors are wrong about that. There will be a change
.soon, and he will pass out of the body before the summer is over." His
.death occurred in June, 1888.
E. G. W.
I have also received from Miss W. the accounts of several other
incidents, the details of which she gave to me before writing her general
report. One of the communications from Phinuit that seemed specially
isti iking in the first instance has lost much of its significance owing to
facts which I have ascertained from Miss W. The Rev. W. H. Savage,
at a sitting on December 28th, 1888 (see Reports, Nos. 27 and 28),
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 35
received a message for his brother, the Rev. M. J. Savage, purporting
to come from the Rev. Robert West—full name and description given
—regretting a certain article which he had written against the Rev.
M. J. Savage in a paper called the Advance, and naming correctly the
cause and the date of his death. At a sitting on January loth, 1889,
the R«v. M. J. Savage also received a communication purporting to
come from the Rev. Robert West, in which the place of his burial and
the text on his tombstone were correctly given. All these circum
stances were unknown to the sitters. Now, Miss W., it appears, was a
friend of the Rev. Robert West, and aware of the text on his tomb
stone. The Rev. Robert West has purported to communicate directly
with her, without the intervention of Phinuit, and early in 1888
(February 2nd) referred to "a blue-eyed, brown-bearded man, about
my age [42], who comes here, named ' Savage,' " and wished Miss W.
to refresh his (West's) memory about Mr. Savage, whom he claimed he
used to know in the West. Miss W. put some leading questions with
this object in view, and Mr. West then referred to the article in the
Advance, which Miss W. had not specially mentioned, but about which
she knew. There were also allusions, at her sittings in the early part
of 1888, to the text on the tombstone and the place of burial. It
seems clear, therefore, that all the information which was given to the
Rev. W. H. Savage and his brother might have been obtained previously
from Miss W. without supposing any more than telepathy from the
sitter.
The above is the simple outline of the case. The full details are
somewhat more complicated, and appear to be as follow :—
On February 2nd, 1888, "Mr. West" gave to Miss W. a general
personal description of " Savage " which would suit well enough either
M. J. Savage or W. H. Savage. Miss W. did not know whether the
description was applicable or not, but supposed at the time that M. J.
Savage was meant, for she did not know of the existence of his brother.
But Mr. West never knew M. J. Savage in the West, but he did know
W. H. Savage there, both being Congregational ministers at the same
time in towns not very far apart in the State of Illinois. On May
24th, 1888, "Mr. West" stated to Miss W. that he had (since February
2nd, 1888) seen Mr. Savage and communicated with him. "I had a
talk with Mr. Savage. Dr. Phinuit was talking with him, and I said
to the doctor, ' I think I know that gentleman.' So he told Mr.
Savage, who asked me to come. I told Mr. Savage about a good many
things in my life, about my illness, &c, reminded him of that note we
published. He remembered it very well, said he did not think it quite
the right thing, but was ready to overlook it."
Mr. M. J. Savage did not remember any such sitting, and
in reply to my inquiry stated that he had no recollection of
D 2
36 Mr. R, Hodgson.
attending any sitting between February 2nd and May 24th, 1888.
I discovered, however, that during this interval Mr. Savage had
visited Mrs. Piper, not as the " sitter," but as an officer of the
committee of the A.S.P.R., accompanying the sitter and a steno
graphic reporter for the purpose of supervising and adding com
ments concerning incidents at the sitting which were not likely to be
noted by the reporter, and avoiding, as far as possible, communications
to himself. He received no communication from the Rev. Robert
West at this sitting (March 7th), as I have ascertained from an exami
nation of the stenographic report in my possession. Mr. W. H. Savage
also believes that he did not visit Mrs. Piper at all between those dates.
It is, of course, just possible that since Mr. M. J. Savage forgot that he
had any sitting at all with Mrs. Piper between the dates of February
2nd and May 24th, 1888, whereas he was certainly present at an im
portant official sitting between those dates, he might have also had
another sitting as alleged by " Mr. West," though perhaps he was
hardly likely to forget such a conversation as that described on May
24th to Miss W. Recently (November, 1891) I questioned Phinuit
about this incident and quoted Mr. Savage's statement that no such
conversation had occurred. Phinuit purported then to get into com
munication with " Mr. West," and stated in explanation that it was
probably his (Phinuit's) fault, that Mr. West had given him the mes
sage to deliver, and he had forgotten it, and told Mr. West that it
would be " all right, or something of that sort," thus giving rise to
another misunderstanding on the part of Mr. West that Mr. Savage
had offered a communication in return. But this explanation seems
somewhat inadequate when we consider the explicit account given to
Miss W. on May 24th by " Mr. West."
Again, at Mr. M. J. Savage's sitting on January 15th, 1889,
when he received froru " Mr. West " the information about the place
of burial and the text on the tombstone, the Rev. C. L. Goodell
purported to be present (Report, No. 27). Mr. Savage was unaware
of his death, but afterwards ascertained that Mr. Goodell died early
in 1886. Miss W. writes to me : " Dr. C. L. Goodell was an
acquaintance of mine. His name was mentioned to me (at a sitting
with Mrs. Piper) with a message of regards on December 16th, 1886,
and several times thereafter." Dr. Goodell was also known to the
Rev. Robert AVest,
Taken altogether, the incidents form a curious series of events.
The person unfamiliar with, and incredulous of, the possibilities of
trance states like Mrs. Piper's would naturally infer, on reading
the accounts given by the Rev. M. J. Savage and his brother,
that Mrs. Piper had " worked up " the cases of West and Goodell by
ordinary means of inquiry. The firm believer in " spirit control "
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 37
would probably conclude at ouce that the Rev. Robert West and Dr.
Goodell were personally communicating. But while we cannot say that
. this second view is absolutely untenable, there remains another expla
nation, that Phinuit, drawing his information from Miss W. telepathi-
cally and by conversation, and knowing (as Miss W., consciously, did
not know) that both M. J. Savage and his brother had talked with him
and were likely to come again, stored up the information for future
use, and found the first favourable opportunity on the visit of W. H.
Savage.
In the light of the foregoing incident we are, I think, bound
to regard several other peculiar cases of which accounts have been
furnished to me by Miss W.
On March 23rd, 1887, Miss W. received a communication from
" Mr. West " to this effect : " Katy asks, Do you know Mabel
Fuller ? She lived in Lake City and was drowned there some six or
eight years ago, while skating on the lake with John Gerster." On
March 31st she was further told: "It was in Lake Pepin she was
drowned with Gerster some seven or eight years ago. Her father's
name is John."
Mr. W. also had sittings with Mrs. Piper about this time, and in
reply to his inquiries the information concerning the above incident
gradually became more definite in successive sittings. Unfortunately
no record was made of the actual changes, &c, but Mr. W. is sure that
he finally had the following statements to go upon :—That a boy named
Fred Guernsey, whose father kept a drug-store in Lake City, was
drowned in Lake Pepin while skating in company with a girl, and that
their bodies were found clasped together in the lake. He could not
get the name of the State, and several States contain a Lake City, but
the Lake Pepin pointed to the Lake City in Minnesota, and he ac
cordingly wrote to Mr. Guernsey to this address on May 20th, 1887
and received the following letter in reply :—
Drugs, Books, Stationery, Notions,
Fancy Goods, Wall Paper.
A. T. Guernsey.
Lake City, Minn.
May 24th, 1887.
... In reply to your inquiries under date of the 20th, would say that
I lost a son by drowning December 13th, 1878, while skating on Lake
Pepin in company with Miss Florence E. Wyckoff, daughter of Rev. Samll
Wyckoff, at that time pastor of the Presbyterian Church of this place. Both
were lost. His name was Porter Brewster Guernsey.
A. T. Guernsey.
On July 1st, 1887, Miss W. drew the attention of the "control"
to the mistake in the name Mabel Fuller, acquainting him probably, as
33 Mr. Ii. Hodgson.
she thinks, with the contents of the letter received from Mr. Guernsey.
An explanation of the mistake was offered to the effect that Mabel
Fuller had lived in Lake City, was a friend of Miss Wyckoff, and was
the daughter of a Baptist minister there, Miss Wyckoff being also the
(laughter of a minister. It was not ascertained at the time whether
this explanation was founded on facts or not, and my own letters to
Lake City received no reply. I have at last, however, received the
following statement from one of our members, Mr. H. VV. Smith :—
St. Paul, Minn., Narember 30th, 1891.
. . . You ask as to the identity of Miss Mabel Fuller, &c., all of
which I will try to place before you in the following. Your letter of March
!lth to A. T. Guernsey is also before me—temporarily in my possession—anil
1 also attempt to cover the questions therein contained. Before me also are
two letters, copies of which I enclose, which Mr. Guernsey states reached
him from a party claiming to be W. H. W. The originals are written in a
beautiful cultivated hand, well punctuated ; otherwise my copies are accurate.
Mr. A. T. Guernsey is a druggist doing business at the coiner of Selby-
avenue and Dale-street, in St. Paul, Minn., having removed with his family
from Lake City, Minn., some three years ngo. The following statement.'!
were made to me this evening by said Mr. Guernsey, while in his presence, by
oral declaration. He is the father of Porter Brewster Guernsey, who was
drowned in Lake Pepin in the vicinity of Lake City, Minn., in the evening
(not the afternoon or day) of December loth, 1878. He (young Guernsey)
was skating in company with Florence E. Wyckoff at the time, and she was
drowned with him. Miss Wyckoffs father was the Presbyterian minister at
Ltke City, Minn., having removed from Portage, Wisconsin. The former
Baptist minister at Lake City was a Mr. Fuller, who removed to Litchfield,
Minn., two or three years before Mr. Wyckoff or any of his (Wyckoff's)
family arrived. Besides this strong indication that the Fullers and Wyckoffs
were not acquainted, there is independent evidence which is nearly conclu
sive. There was no such person as Mabel Fuller residing in Lake City or
anywhere around, or known there, before, at the time, or subsequent to the
above-mentioned drowning. Mr. Fuller had two daughters, neither of whom
was drowned, neither knew the Wyckoffs, neither of them was named Mabel,
both, and all the family, moved away, as above stated, two or three years
prior to Wyckoffs arrival, and now reside at Litchfield, Minn. Porter
Brewster Guernsey and Florence E. Wyckoffwere drowned and died together
on one and the same occasion. The evidence is that Guernsey was trying to
assist Miss Wyckoff, when both went down together, and the fact is that when
found the bodies were attached ; that is to say, Mr. Guernsey had hold of
Miss Wyckoffs arm at death and the bodies had remained so. I have already'
given you the date of drowning. Young Guernsey's name is correctly given
above, and Fred Guernsey (see Mr. W.'s letter) is not correct. No such per
son as Fred Guernsey was drowned. Mr. A. T. Guernsey never saw, nor cor
responded with, nor heard Rev. Robert West ; never subscribed to the
Advance, and believes, therefore, his name never came to their notice. He
had read the Advance, and recollects Rev. West as a writer.
Again, Miss W., at a sitting on March 31st, 1887, was informed
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 30
by "Mr. West" that he was very busy just then with the care (,f a
William N. (giving the name in full), who had passed out of the body
" by his own act, from some Western City." William N. wanted to
send a message to his wife Lulu. Shortly after this, Miss W. ascer
tained that a bearer of the name given had been in . . . in
St. Paul, Minnesota, and had committed suicide. I learn (November
29th, 1891) from Mr. H. W. Smith, who sent me the information
concerning the Guernsey incident, that William Pi. N. committed
suicide in 1883, and that his wife's name is Louise. My informant
adds that " the remains were, or were to be, taken to Lake City,
Minn., for interment."
Now, taking the view which I do of Mis. Piper's trance (and
therefore rejecting the supposition which many of my readers will
naturally make, that Mrs. Piper in her waking state had consciously
" got up " the information given), there are at least four hypotheses
which might be suggested for the "Guernsey" and "W. N." incidents.
1. The hypothesis of "spirit-control." But in this case it semis
difficult to account for the mistakes made in connection with the
" Guernsey " incident.
2. The hypothesis suggested by the " West-Savage " incident, that
some other person to whom the facts were at least partially or
" unconsciously " known had previously had a sitting with Mrs. Piper,
and that Phinuit had obtained his information from this other sitter.
It is curious that the statements in both cases concerned events in
Minnesota. Possibly the sitter came from that State, or was specially
interested in matters occurring there.
3. The hypothesis that Miss W. or her father had casually seen
a brief account of the ciicumstances in some newspaper, and either
had forgotten them afterwards or perhaps in the first instance had
never consciously noticed them (compare the exper iences of Miss X.,
Vol. V., pp. 507-8), and that Phinuit had niched them telepathically
from their subconsciousnesses.
4. The hypothesis that Mrs. Piper herself had thus casually seen
these items of news without noticing them, but that the " Phinuit
personality " had noticed them and reproduced them afterwards as
tests. This and the two previous hypotheses seem to tit most naturally
with the scantiness and partial incorrectness of the statements made
about the " Guernsey " incident. It is a common thing to find an
item of news in a paper in the form of a despatch prefaced by the
name of a city without the name of the State.i Thus a telegraphic
i In making inquirics about remarkable stoiips which have appeared in news
papers, I have several times been inconvenienced by this fact. There are numerous
instances where towns, frequently important ones, of the same name are found in
different States.
40 Mr. R. Hodgson.
despatch might appear somewhat in this way :—Lake City.—A boy
named Guernsey, whose father keeps a drug-store in this city, was
drowned to-day in Lake Pepin while skating in company with a girl,—
ifec. AVe must note further that the Christian name of the boy was
first given as John and afterwards as Fred, his first names being in
reality Porter Brewster. These errors would be rather remarkable for
either the boy himself or his girl-companion to make, and if we add to
these the further facts that the name of the State was not obtainable,
and that the name of the girl who was drowned, from whom,
apparently, the information purported to come, was given as Mabel
Fuller instead of Florence E. Wyckoff, there remains practically no
evidence whatever for the identity of the supposed " spirits " whose
bodies were drowned.
After writing the above I made further inquiries of Miss AV., who
says in reply :—
' ' The acquaintance who introduced me to Mrs. Piper in 1886 was a St.
Paul business man. He had then had several sittings with her, but has had
few since that time. He could, if he would, tell you much of interest about
her, but he would not. . . . My St. Paul friend was the person
through whom I verified the account of William K.'s suicide. I think he
knew him personally—certainly knew of him."
Miss W. also states that she remembers telling her St. Paul friend
(now abroad) of the Guernsey incident, and " he had no recollection of
having heard of the matter."
This additional information certainly seems to make the second of
the above hypotheses so much more probable than the others that I •
allow the others to remain as suggestions only because of the next
incident to which I turn, which is also an outcome of the W. sittings.
In May, 1888, Mr. W. was told by his daughter "control" that she
was intimate (in the " spirit-world ") with a little girl whose father's
name was X. Miss W. received further details on May 24th,
1888, purporting to come from Katy through "Mr. West." " Gracie
X. here about four years. Her father is William X., who keeps a
shop on Winter-street (Boston), sells furnishings, buttons, fancy goods,
trimmings. Katy describes her dress, in open work stockings, high
buttoned boots, white dress with two frills round the bottom and falling
just below the knees, sash of blue ribbon tied a little at one side of the
back, long, light flowing hair, crimped by being braided, smoothed
back from her forehead and parted off from each side and tied here
(the back of the top of the head indicated by a gesture) with a ribbon
and falling down behind. She is not so old as Katy. She was ill with
membranous diphtheria. She wants you to tell her papa about this
and see what he says. She was an only child."
A1r. AV. walked down Winter-street and found a shop there corre-
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 41
sponding with the name of X., but not William X., and he made no in
quiry at that time. Miss W. afterwards inquired for William X. at the
shop and found that he was or had been a junior member of the firm,
but was engaged in another business in Devonshire-street. She found
him there, and was informed that the statements concerning his daughter
were correct. The description of his daughter's dress was accurate, but
his daughter's grave was in Forest Hills Cemetery, and there was a
statue of his daughter there dressed as described. His daughter, he
said, was wont to wear blue. Miss W. questioned Mrs. Piper concern
ing her knowledge of Forest Hills Cemetery, which is in one of the
suburbs of Boston, and Mrs. Piper recalled that she had several years
previously visited this cemetery on a drive, but she could not recall
anything about the statue.
I questioned Mrs. Piper about her visit to the cemetery, and she
stated that she accompanied a lady, Mrs. E., to the cemetery, that they
went in a horse-car, and walked in the cemetery itself ; that some time
after Miss W. told her about the statue she visited the cemetery again,
on purpose to see the statue, that she could not recall having ever seen
it before, and that Mrs. E.'s lot is in another part of the cemetery.
Miss Edmunds has visited the cemetery and furnished me with a
detailed description of the X. lot, from which I extract the following
passages :—
On the upright between the top and lower steps is engraved " Wm. H.
X." In the centre of the lot is a large grey granite monument .
forming a pedestal for the statue of a woman in flowing draperies, full size,
the whole being about twenty feet. ... In the front is engraved in
large letters "X ." On the left hand side of the monument [and not
seen when directly facing the monument from the front of the lot] . . .
is "children of William H. and Emily D. C. X. Grace Sherwood, June 5th,
1876—November 11th, 1880." [Below this is a space as though for one or
more other names.] ... To the left of the large monument is the
statue of a beautiful child, about three feet high, in pure white marble,
standing on a pedestal, only a few inches from the ground, which is decorated
with leaves. . . . Her left hand is holding her sash, and in her right
hand are a few flowers, held down in front. The sash is plain, in loose folds
below the waist and tied at the back in a large bow ; and the dress, apparently
of fine white muslin, beautifully and closely embroidered (not "open" work).
The front and back down to the sash has a broad embroidered band, and the
skirt below the sash is beautifully worked. The hair is tied with a ribbon,
with large bow and ends falling back from the top of the head, straight
fringe over forehead. The whole statue is enclosed in a glass case.
("Gracie " seems to be the only one as yet buried in the lot.) . . .
I have also visited the lot myself, and add some further details
which were brought out also in drawings made by Miss Edmunds of
the statue, and which should be compared with the statements made to
Miss W. at her sitting. The boots are " high-buttoned," and the dress
i2 Mr. R. Hodgson.
falls ''just below the knees,' out the sash is tied exactly in the middle
of the back. There is no sign of any "openwork" about the stockings,
and there appear to be no frills round the bottom of the dress. There
is no indication on the lot as to the cause of Gracie's death. She had
been dead not " about four years," as stated in the communication, but
between seven and eight years. The name Gracie appears in large
letters on the pedestal of the statue.
In reply to my further inquiries, Miss W. writes on November 9th,
1891 :—
I have no notes of my conversation with Mr. X. My recollection is that
he said Gracie was at her death the only child ; that another had been born
since. He assented to the description as correct, at the same time saying
that the statue on the grave probably gave Mrs. P. her information.
Whether I quoted to him the "open-worked stockings" and "sash tied on
one side," and he failed to notice the discrepancy, or whether I gave him only
my recollection of the description, I do not remember. I should doubt, how
ever, that I omitted both items. Should you find Mr. X., you may care to
ask him about this " test " which I find in my notes for June 21st, 1888. It
seemed so intrinsically improbable that I never cared to inquire. "Gracie
X. is glad you have been to see her papa, and wants you to ask him if he
remembers a little light blue silk dress with white lace that her mamma made
her. She knows about her little sister, but she does not know her name
[apparently in reply to my inquiry]. She will go to the house, a little way
out from this city, with trees all round it, and find out."
It has not yet been ascertained whether these further statements
are true or not, and, even if true, it is, of course, possible that they may
have baen obtained from some other sitter, a relative or friend of the
X. family.
Reverting to our four hypotheses (p. 39), it is clear that not only
(2), but (3) or (4) might be the actual explanation of the Gracie X.
incident ; even if we suppose that neither Mrs. Piper, nor Miss W.,
nor Mr. W. had ever seen the grave in Forest Hills Cemetery.
It is not improbable, e.g., that some account of the statue appeared in
a newspaper, together with some statement about Mr. X. and the
manner of his daughter's death. This account may have been read,
and afterwards completely forgotten, by Mrs. Piper or the sitters, but
lingering still in the " subconscious " mind, it may have formed the
source of the information given out by the trance personality. It
certainly seems remarkable that the dress of Gracie should be described
with such minute particularity, unless the statue in some way formed
the starting point of the communication. On the other hand, however,
an advocate of the "spirit" hypothesis may urge that the very
circumstances in connection with the dross that led Mr. X. to place the
statue on his child's grave may be held in very definite remembrance by
Gracie herself. But, on this hypothesis, how did the mistake of four
years instead of eight years as the interval since her death originate 1
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 43
Taken together, I think it must be conceded that these cases which
Miss W. has given me, in addition to her general report, do not in
themselves furnish any prixif of the " spirit " hypothesis. Miss W.'s
opinion as to the personality of her friend T. I regard as valuable, but
it should be noticed that her mother, at the single sitting which she
had with Mrs. Piper, was not equally impressed with the T. control.
" It did not really seem like T." The incident of this remark, made to
Mr. W. by Mrs. W. on their piazza, was mentioned at her next sitting
to Miss W., who was ignorant of the circumstances. This apparently
goes beyond thought-transference from the sitter. So also does the
more striking instance of Mr. W.'s receipt of a letter from B., of which
Miss W. was informed at her sitting on December 16th, 1886, with a
correct reference to its contents. These cases are, of course, explicable
on the hypothesis of telepathy from the mind of a distant living person
(Mr. W.) ; and the cases of the "silver cups" and the "card-plate "
perhaps strengthen this explanation, as the details communicated t(r
Miss W., though unknown to her, were, presumably, known to her
mother rmd sister respectively, and did not include the information of
which tliey were—consciously —ignorant, and which Miss W. specially
sought, viz., the actual whereabouts of the missing objects. Omitting
for the present the prophecies mentioned in Miss W.'s report, it would
seem that the T. "control " presented marked characteristics of the friend
it purported to be; showed specific knowledge of private matters known
only to that friend and the sitter ; showed a knowdedge of facts of whic h
he was reminded by the sitter, and in turn reminded the sitter of facts
temporarily forgotten by her ; made some mistakes in matters once
known to the friend, and remembered well by the sitter, and told the
sitter of facts not known to her and afterwards verified. Is it probable
that Miss W.'s friend was in some sense actually communicating with
her, or was the T. personality fictitiously represented by Phinuit ? Or,
shall we put it ' rather, does Mrs. Piper's secondary personality
fictitiously represent itself as (or believe itself to be) Phinuit, T., and
various other " controls " ?
I have myself witnessed five " controls " besides Phinuit. At one
of my earliest sittings, I believe the third, Mrs. Piper became entranced,
and yet, as I thought, no one spoke for some minutes. Finally my
attention was drawn to a very low whispering sound which I was con
scious had been continuing for some time, and on bending my head I
caught the repetition of my Christian name, with the statement that
the speaker, who purported to be " Q." (see p. 9), was too weak to talk
any more. Shortly afterwards Phinuit came to the front in the usual
way. About a year later, Phinuit, in connection with an inquiry that I
was making, had asserted (wrongly, as afterwards appeared) that a
particular person was in Denver, Colorado. I wished to know whether
44 Mr. R. Hodgson.
Phinuit could not visit Denver then and there and become quite sure
of his statements. He said he could, it would take him about five
minutes, and in the meantime the medium was to " leave the room and
have a change of surroundings and be freshened up." Mrs. Piper came
out of trance. I told her of the circumstances. She left the room and
returned in a few minutes, and immediately became again entranced.
To my surprise the first words were, " I'm Commodore Vanderbilt,"
.and then followed some general statements about Vanderbilt's life
which I cannot recall. I inquired how it was that he came when I
expected Dr. Phinuit. " Dr. Phinuit said he had to go off in a hurry
and didn't know whether he could be back in time. If he didn't get
back he said I was to come and talk to you till he came." The style
was curiously different from that of Phinuit, and after a short talk,
suggesting the fragmentary conversation which one might hold with a
stranger while waiting for dinner, the alleged " Commodore " said,
*' Here's Dr. Phinuit, I'm going, good-bye." After a pause came the
characteristic Phinuit, and I inquired how it was that he could take
the place of Commodore Vanderbilt so easily.
" Oh ! I said, ' Commodore Vanderbilt, I want to speak to you.' He
came out and I popped in." " What sort of a fellow is he ? " " Oh ! he's a
good sort of fellow; but I don't care about him very much." "Why?"
" Oh ! he swears."
Vanderbilt is mentioned both by Mrs. Piper (p. 46) and Phinuit
(e.g., in sitting on June 9th, 1888) as among the early " controls."
I have also had several experiences with the " E. control." (See
Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 493, 516-7, 524, 552-3, and 656.) This
began by alleged messages from " E." through Phinuit at a sitting on
March 15th, 1889, with Professor and Mrs. James. On March 22nd,
1889, the mother of Mrs. James received through Phinuit a message
from "E." for Professor James. A few days later " E." purported to
control directly at a sitting where a friend of mine, Mrs. Y. (unknown
to " E."), was present, giving name, &c, and saying that he had heard
my name and found that the " conditions " of Mrs. Y. were specially
favourable for his "controlling." With Mrs. Y., Professor James and
myself both witnessed this supposed "control " afterwards. The language
was not at all like that used by the living " E.," who was well known to
Professor James and myself, though there were occasionally reminders,
as it were, not in words, but in ideas, of his manner and thought.
Thus he earnestly desired that tests should be provided by another
friend who had known him most intimately ; but, on the other hand,
when the test questions were obtained and presented the answers were
either not forthcoming or were wrong. The whole thing rather
suggested a simulation by Phinuit, though a specific question of my
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 4.5
own was correctly answered, and other matters were alluded to which
showed knowledge of some events personal to " E." and myself.
Further, the full name and occupation, when living, of another person,
" Z.," were mentioned by the " E." control, as well as the fact that
"Z." had died before " E." The name of " Z." was first mentioned
incidentally. " E." said that he himself was very much confused, but
that he had met " Z." and found "Z." in a still more confused state,
although "Z." had been longer in the "other world." The rest of the
information was given in reply to our inquiries. The statements made
were afterwards verified, and neither Mrs. Y., nor Professor James, nor
myself knew (consciously) anything about such a person. I was the only
one who was likely to have known anything about him, and it is almost
certain that, years previously, I had heard of his name and position ;
but it was improbable, though quite possible, that I had heard of his
death. It was probable also that " E." had known him personally.
This incident was the only case where any knowledge was at that time
shown concerning matters which the sitters were unable to recall,
and it may have been drawn from my subconsciousness or from the-
mind of some other living person. If we assume that this control
was the " make-up " of Mrs. Piper's secondary personality, it apparently
involved some very subtle use of information drawn telepathically from
at least the minds of the sitters, and at the same time the most extra
vagant ignorance and confusion concerning other facts, some of which
were known to the sitters, and which we should expect to be vivid in
the remembrance of " E."
Several times in reply to my request Phinuit had promised to bring
several other persons to "control" in succession, and on November 7th,.
1889, after Phinuit's voice had died away, another "control" started,
purporting to be a friend of " E." and to be a German. Beyond this
the words uttered, including the name, were almost entirely unintel
ligible. This " manifestation," which lasted a very short time, and was
not at all like Phinuit, was followed by the " Mrs. Walsh " control,
which I have described in Report 16. This was decidedly sui generis,
and strongly suggestive of Mrs. Walsh (the aunt of Professor James.
See Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 656). I have heard of several other
"controls," purporting to be relatives of sitters who regard their
experiences as too private for publication, and I think it probable that
some of these may now be, whatever they were in their incipient
stages, fairly good personations. On any hypothesis, perhaps, we should
expect such personations to improve. Phinuit himself is much superior
to what he was four and a-half years ago, though he has remained
throughout the same characteristic personality, and his origin, I venture
to think, is still open to doubt.
4G Mr. R. Hodgson.
§ 7. Mrs. Piper's Early Trances.
C Much light might be thrown on this problem of Phinuit's origin,
And thus also on that of the other " controls," did we possess a
stenographic report of what ensued on Phinuit's first appearance as
Mrs. Piper's trance personality, but I have been unable to obtain
any satisfactory accounts of Mrs. Piper's early trances. Mrs. Piper
herself has given me what information she could. In reply to inquiries
in January, 1888, she informed me that her husband's father and
mother had been impressed by a sitting which they had with a
medium in 1884, and persuaded her to try consultation with a medium
who gave medical advice. She was at that time suffering from a
tumour. She visited Mr. J. R. Cocke, a blind medium, also a
" developer " of mediums. He professed to be controlled by a French
physician whose name was pronounced Finny. While there, she felt
curious twitchings, and thought she might become completely uncon
scious. On a second visit to Mr. Cocke he placed his hands on her
head, and shortly after she became unconscious. As she was losing
consciousness she was aware of a flood of light and saw strange faces,
•and a hand moving before her. The " flood of light " she had ex
perienced once before, a few months previously ; it immediately pre
ceded a swoon, caused by a sudden blow on the side of the head.
When she lost consciousness on the occasion of her second visit to Mr.
Cocke, she was said to have been controlled by an Indian girl who
g.ive the name " Chlorine," and to have given a remarkable test to a
stranger who was present. She had several more sittings with Mr.
Cocke, and was again controlled, apparently on each occasion by
" Chlorine." On her second visit to Mr. Cocke he professed to be
controlled by John Sebastian Bach. After this she tried sitting at
home with her relatives and friends. Phinnuit (sic) "controlled" first,
And since then regularly, but she was also controlled at occasional
times by Mrs. Siddons, Bach, Longfellow, Commodore Vanderbilt, and
Loretta Ponchini. It was said that " Mrs. Siddons " recited a scene
from Macbeth, Longfellow was said to have written some verses, and
Loretta Ponchini (who purported to be an Italian girl) to have made
some drawings. These verses and drawings have not been preserved. )
I requested a lady member of our Society, who is a shorthalid
reporter, and personally acquainted with Mrs. Piper and her family, to
make some inquiries of Mr. James M. Piper (Mrs. Piper's father-in-law)
concerning the earlier "trances." The following is her account of Mr.
Piper's statements :—
Mr. Piper said that the first time Mrs. Piper went to Dr. Cocke's she
went for medical advice, and was told she would make a remarkable medium
(she went to see if she had cancer).
The second time she visited Dr. Cocke she went under control and wrote
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 47
a message. Mr. Piper only accompanied her on those two occasions. Mrs.
Piper herself only went a few times. She was first controlled by Chlorine,
.and I asked Mr. Piper distinctly if the names of any of her controls were
mentioned in her presence at the seances before she professed to be con
trolled by them, and he said, positively, No.i
Sebastian Bach said he was the one to "form her band," and Chlorine
was the principal control for a long time for outside sitters, and Loretta
Ponchini and Mrs. Siddons, and one or two others, used to come at first for
family sittings only and not for outsiders.
Dr. Phinuit only came at first to give medical advice. He "didn't care
to come for other matters," as he thought them "too trivial."
Finally Sebastian Bach said they were going to concentrate all their powers
on Phinuit, and he became ultimately the chief control.
Mr. Piper says that there is no question but that it is the same Phinuit
or personality who controls Dr. Cocke, no matter how their names are spelt.
Phinuit said at first that he was permitted to come through Mrs. Piper,
and for quite a while he used to speak of a " blind medium " and of things
that had happened at the blind medium's, and would speak of certain persons
who had been at the blind medium's and would describe them. And Mr.
Piper had asked Dr. Cocke if such persons were with him at such a time
answering to Phinuit's description, and he said Yes.
QMr. Cocke is a professional medium. I visited him myself, accom
panied by a friend—not giving any names. He purported to go into
trance and give medical diagnoses. His diagnoses of my friend and
myself were completely wrong, and there was nothing of any sort, in
voice, words, gestures, ifec, about this supposed " trance personality "
which in the least degree resembled Mrs. Piper's Phinuit. I was
informed, in reply to my inquiry, that the control was a "Dr. Finny"
(so pronounced), but I forbore to press further questions, as my inquiry
appeared to me to be received with a certain amount of resentment.
But I may have misjudged Mr. Cocke in this, since at a later period he
gave some information to my assistant Miss Edmunds, when he found
that she had called in the interests of the S.P.R. He stated that he
had a full history of his " control " written out which he did not mean
to divulge until he published it himself. But he was willing to state
that his control was Albert G. Finnett (pronounced Fin'-ne), a French
man, who had studied medicine a little as a " barber's surgeon." He
claims to be "no one in particular." When " controlling " Mr. Cocke
he gives medical diagnoses and prescribes medicines. Mr. Cocke stated
further that Albert G. Finnett also speaks French fluently, but he
explained that he had studied French thoroughly himself when at
.school, and that, though not by any means a French scholar now, he
understands it fairly well. )
i A lady who had been at Sir. Cocke's " circle " at the same time as Mrs. Piper
.stated, in reply to my inquiry, that all the early "controls " of Mrs. Piper had been
previously mentioned in Mrs. Piper's presence. This lady, however, declined later
to give me any written statement on the subject.—R. H.
4S Mr. R. Hodgson.
I have ascertained from several persons who attended some of Mrs.
Piper's early sittings that Phinuit's name was originally pronounced
Finny or Fin'-ne (see Report, No. 39) ; but I do not know of any
" authentic " spelling of his name before the incident referred to at the
close of the following account received by me from Mrs. Piper on
September 23rd, 1890. Mrs. Piper had given me an oral account of
this incident a long time previously, but I was unable to find any
record of it among my notes.
In reply to your several letters of recent date, asking for information in
regard to my family history and other matters, I will say that I have taken
special pains to get the information you desire, and the facts about my family
I feel certain are absolutely correct.
1st. Whether there has been in my family any phenomena similar to my
trance ?
I know of nothing of the kind, except in the case of a younger brother
who has been all his life somewhat of an invalid. He has a nervous,
temperament, although the physicians say he has no regular nervous disease.
He has several times been entranced, but the fact is known to no one outside
of his immediate family, and he would positively refuse to submit to any
investigation by strangers.
2nd. Whether there has been any nervous disease of any kind, any
insanity or crankiness of any sort, on either my mother's or father's side ?
None at all. My grandfather, on my father's side, died of old age, at the
age of ninety. My grandmother is now living. They had twelve children,
eight of whom are living, and the rest died in infancy. My grandfather on
my mother's side died of heart disease at about eighty years of age. My
grandmother died suddenly in bed at an advanced age, over eighty, being in
full possession of all her faculties up to the time of her death. They also
had twelve children, six boys and six girls. Of these, one uncle died in
infancy, two uncles are now living, and the remaining three died of heart
disease at a mature age. Of my aunts, one died in childhood of hemorrhage,
one of cancer, and one of diabetes in middle age ; my mother and two aunts
are now living.
3rd. Did Phinuit ever give the last name, Scliville, to any person before
the sitting which you and Miss R. had together ?
Yes, he had several times given the name to Mr. Piper.
4th. Can I give you the date of my marriage, and the date of my eldest
child's birth, and the date of my first experiences in trance ?
I was married October 6th, 1881. My first child was born May 16th,
1884. My second child was born October 7th, 1885. My first experience of
being in trance was on the 29th of June, 1884. I remember this date
distinctly, from its being two days after my first birthday following the birth
of my first child. I consulted a certain medium for medical advice on a
Saturday, and during the interview was partially unconscious for a few
moments. The next day, Sunday, I attended a circle at the house of this
same medium, being urged to do so by friends who were curious to see if
anything further would develop, and went into a trance. What took place at
that time I have previously explained to you.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 49
5th. Can I describe the circumstances of my seeing the name Phinuit
written out for the first time, giving the date as nearly as possible, and, of
course, telling exactly what I saw written ?
As near as I can recollect, it was several months after the birth of my
second child, which was in October, 1885. I had not, of course, been giving
sittings for a considerable length of time. It was in the evening, soon after
I had retired, and before I had fallen asleep at all. The room was quite
dark. Then I suddenly saw light. I said to Mr. Piper, "Do you see a
light ?" He said, "Why, no, what is the matter ? Are you going into a
trance ?" I replied no, that I was my natural self, but that the room was full
of light. He said that he saw nothing. I said, " Wait a minute ; I sec
something " ; and just then I saw on the wall beside my bed the letters
"Dr.," a capital D and small r and a period, just as the abbreviation is
ordinarily written. Then I saw the letters " P-h-i-n," but could see nothing
more. I arose, got a light, and placed it so that it would shine on the same
spot on the wall to see what effect it would produce, but there was nothing
like what I had just seen.
Whether the letters P-h-i-n were given to or suggested by any
sitter prior to this " hallucination " of Mrs. Piper, I do not know.
The spelling given to me both by Mrs. Piper and Phinuit in 1887 was
Phinnuil, and I incline to think that the present spelling Phinuit is
due indirectly to an error of my own. Forgetting the spelling as
originally given to me, and being frequently asked by persons who
were interested in Mrs. Piper's sittings how Phinuit was spelt, I not
only got into the habit of spelling it with a single n myself, but, as I
believe, caused many sitters and other persons to spell it with a single
n. I was never confident of this spelling, but did not for a long time
refer to my original notes. The waking Mrs. Piper herself in this
way became familiarised with the spelling Phinuit. The result,
apparently, of all this was that Phinuit himself began in the first half
of 1888 to spell his name with a single n. He spelt it thus on
June 5th, 1891, and when I then charged him with having dropped an
n owing to a mistake on my part, and pointed out that he had changed
his name unwittingly, he denied it, saying that there were two n's, and
affirming that probably he jumbled the two n's together quickly so
that it sounded like a single n. But there was no tone of confidence
iu the denial, and Phinuit's written signature, given on June 30th,
1888, contains only one n.
Returning to the statements made by Mr. J. M. Piper, it is curious
that Phinuit himself, in a sitting of May 26th, 1888, should have
stated specifically that he had never controlled any other medium but
Mrs. Piper.
Q. : " Did you ever control any other medium?" A. : " No." Q. :
" Who is this Dr. Phinuit that controls the organism of Dr. J. Cocke ? ,r
A.: "Is that the same Dr. Phinuit that controls Dr.—what is that
doctor's name in your country ? I do not know those fellows at all. Anothor
K
50 Mr. R. Hodgson. i
gentleman tells me that he went to two mediums, and they both got a Dr.
Phinuit ; one is Phinuit and the other is Phinnie." (This name may not be
spelled correctly, but it ends with an e in distinction from the other.—Stem.)
§ 8. Phinuit's Account of Himself.
^In reply to my inquiries on different occasions, Phinuit stated that
his full name was Jean Phinuit Scliville. " Phinuit is one of my names ;
Scliville is my other name ; Dr. Jean Phinuit Scliville ; they always
called me Dr. Phinuit." He was unable to tell the year of his birth
or the year of his death, but by putting together several of his state
ments, it would appear that he was born about 1790 and died about
1860. He was born in Marseilles, went to school and studied medicine
at a college in Paris called " Merciana " (?) College, where he took his.
degree when he was between twenty-five and twenty-eight years old
" Merciana. You know the name ' Meershaum ' ? That is the same
name ; I cannot spell it ; sounds something like that." He also
studied medicine at " Metz, in Germany." At the age of thirty-five
he married Marie Latimer, who had a sister named Josephine.
" Josephine was a sweetheart of mine first, but I went back on her and
married Marie after all." Marie was thirty yeiys of age when he
married her, and died when she was about fifty_!) He had no children.
P. : " Do you know where the Hospital of God is, Hospital de Dieu
(H6tel Dieu) ? " Sitter : " It is in Paris." P. : " Do you remember old
Dyruputia ? Dyruputia [Dupuytren ?] was the head of the hospital,
and there is a street named for him." He went to London and from
London to Belgium. " I went to very different places after my health
broke down."
Some discrepancies will be noticed between these statements
and those given in Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 520, and I understand
that no trace of "Jean Phinuit Scliville" has been discovered at the
medical schools where Phinuit claims to have studied and practised, or
along other lines of inquiry suggested by the few fragments which he
•offers of his life history. Definite evidence establishing the existence
oi a Jean Phinuit Scliville under the circumstances described by
Phinuit would not, of course, establish the identity of such once living
person with Mrs. Piper's Phinuit, but the complete lack of any such
•evidence appears to me to tell forcibly against the supposition that
Mrs. Piper's Phinuit is what for several years he has been asserting
himself to be.
^ Concerning his inability to speak French, Phinuit's original explana
tion to me was that he had lived in Metz the latter part of his life,
and there were many English there, so that he was compelled to speak
English and had forgotten his French. I replied that this explanation
was very surprising, and that a much more plausible one would be that
Observations of Certain PIienomena of Trance. 31
he was obliged to use the brain of the medium, and would therefore
manifest no more familiarity with French than she possessed This—
trite enough—suggestion appeared to Phinuit also more plausible, since
a few days later he offered it himself to another sitter as an explana
tion of his inability to sustain a conversation in French
Dr. C. W. F. (see Report, No. 23) questioned Phinuit about the
prominent medical men in Paris in Phinuit's time. The names of
Bouvier and Dupuytren were given. Dr. F. tells me that he (Dr. C. W. F.)
knew nothing about Bouvier previously, but knew well about Dupuytren.
The doctors he had in mind at the time of his question "were Velpeau,
Bouillaud, Nelaton, Andral, and many others, all prominent forty or
fifty years ago with extended reputations."
Taking the foregoing considerations together, it appears to me that
there is good reason for concluding that Phinuit is not a French doctor.
How far in the next place can Phinuit substantiate his claim to Iks
a doctor at all ? Where the sitter was aware of the nature of the
ailments described, we can suppose that Phinuit's communication may
be accounted for by telepathy. Mr. Piper informed me that Phinuit
had been frequently tested with herbs and had never made a mistake.
I obtained three specimens of herbs from a friend of mine, a druggist,
taking care that their names and uses should be entirely unknown to
me. Phinuit spent considerable time over these, but was absolutely
wrong in everything that he said about them. Dr. F., who had three
sittings with Mrs. Piper, and who has given me information concerning
them additional to that contained in his letter on p. 4, questions whether
Phinuit's medical knowledge extends " beyond what Mrs. Piper has
read in ' Domestic medicine.' He gives always the common or vulgar
names of the medicines he describes, and never their botanical ones."
Dr. F. tells me that at his first sitting Phinuit
" dictated a prescription of plants to be steeped. They are in common use,
save one, for bladder affections, and Sir Henry Thompson, in his special
work, refers to this rather exceptional one as having done good service in
some bladder cases. I told Phinuit these might soothe the bladder some,
but could effect nothing for me. ' Have you ever prescribed triticum repens ? '
I asked. I gave the French for it (chiendent). Now this is used every day
in the week in the Paris hospitals as a diet drink, and when Phinuit said,
' What is the English of that 1 ' I was astonished. He neither knew the
botanical nor the French name of this common dog-grass."
The chances for diagnosis of myself personally have been few. At
one of my earliest sittings Phinuit pronounced me to be perfectly
sound, " an old bach [bachelor], live to be a hundred " (not, of course,
meant as a literal prophecy) ; then added that there was a slight in
flammation of the nasal membranes, which was correct, though I know
of no external sign that could have guided him to this. He recom
mended a preparation of hamamelis. At another sitting I inquired
k 2
r,2 Mr. R. Hodgson.
concerning a slight pain which I no longer had, but had recently
suffered from, and Phinuit, after first objecting that he had told me
before that I was "all right," passed his hand over my left shoulder,
and put a finger on the exact point under my left scapula where the
pain had been, saying that it was due to a cold draught from an open
window, as might have been the case. At another time I inquired
concerning a pain which I had, and Phinuit almost instantaneously
located it correctly, somewhat below the chest, pressing on the precise
place with his finger, and began to say that it was indigestion, but
corrected himself and explained that it was a strained muscle, due to
sudden exercise. I had not consciously thought of this as the explana
tion, which was probably correct, as on the second night previously,
just before retiring, I had, for the first time for many weeks, gone
through a series of exercises, bending forwards and backwards, &c,
and I first experienced the pain on the day following. Phinuit's pre
scription was to rub the part affected with cold water, applied by the
hand.
I have been informed privately of other diagnoses in addition to those
mentioned in the reports, and agree with Professor Lodge (Proceedings,
Vol.VI., p. 449) that the "medical statements" form part of the evidence
in favour of " the existence of some abnormal means of acquiring infor
mation " ; but if we allow for telepathy, and admit that Phinuit may
acquire supernormal perceptions of the various parts of the body, in
cluding ttjfejnternal organs, I see no reason to suppose that he possesses
any technical medical knowledge—in other words, any more knowledge
than might be possessed by a secondary personality of Mrs. Piper. Nor
do I know of any statements made by Phinuit which, from the linguistic,
or scientific, or philosophic point of view, can be regarded as beyond
the capacity of such a secondary personality. Incidents like that
related by Mr. Rich (Report, No. 40)—e'est une alliance—even were
there many of them, as there are not, might be explained by the
supposition that Phinuit obtained these expressions from previous
sitters, or by the fact that for several years Mrs. Piper's children had
a quasi-governess who lived in the house, and who could speak French
fluently. We are then, I think, forced to the conclusion that there is
far from sufficient evidence to prove that Phinuit is either a Frenchman
or a physician.
Further, he now believes—or confesses—that his name is not
Phinuit at all. I have referred above to the changes—apparently both
of pronunciation and of spelling—through which this name has passed,
and have spoken of the matter on more than one occasion to Phinuit
himself, to whom I have frequently pointed out some of the difficulties
in the way of supposing that he is what he purports to be, a " spirit
from the other world." I have also spoken of the matter to Mrs.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 53
Piper on several occasions, and in the last conversation with her prior
to November 13th, 1891, I pointed out to her how strong the presump
tion was that Phinuit was an instance of auto-hypnotic suggestion,
especially since he first called himself Dr. Finney, a French physician,
and she had previously witnessed Mr. Cocke's alleged " control " of the
same name (so pronounced). (On November 13th, 1891, Phinuit asked
me to state candidly what I really thought about him, and the result
was a very plain conversation, in the course of which I described the
view that he was the secondary personality of Mrs. Piper and that his
name was suggested by that of the alleged " control " of Mr. Cocke ;
and I mentioned the changes in the pronunciation and spelling of his
name, and quoted the statements of Mr. J. M. Piper, that Phinuit was
unquestionably the same person who had controlled Mr. Cocke, that
Phinuit had described Mr. Cocke's sitters, &c. (p. 47). Phinuit then
said that the frequent mention of Mr. Cocke's name had brought back
to him circumstances which he had forgotten. He said that he recalled
that on the first occasion of his "controlling" Mrs. Piper, this Mr.
Cocke was present, that he (Phinuit) had made some diagnosis, and on
\mng questioned "Who are you?" had replied that his name was
Scliville, but that Mr. Cocke had said, " No ; you're Dr. Finny."
"My name's Scliville." "No ; you're Dr. Phinuit." "All right ; call
me Phinuit if you like." "And I tell you, Hodgson, I really don't
know whether I'm Phinuit or not, but I think that's the way it came in.
My name is Jean, and Scliville, or something like that."V Phinuit
explained further that he did describe sitters with Mr. Cocke, but
only in the same way that he described what, e.g., Mrs. Holmes (Reports,
Nos. 45-49) was doing at a certain time. They sent him, he said, to
find out what Cocke was doing, but he never professed to " control
Cocke's organism." He still insisted that his name was really Scliville,
that he was connected with Dupuytren and Latimer, and that some
trace of him should be discovered.
In reply to my inquiries, Mr. Wm. Piper states that " from the
commencement and through the whole period of her [Mrs. Piper's]
trances, the control has given his name as Schliville, coupling it with
Jean and Phinuit. Phinuit being the easier for me to say, I have
always spoken to and of him as Phinuit." In conversation, Mr. Piper
has further informed me that he has no recollection of any such
circumstances as those described by Phinuit, and he believes that Mr.
Cocke was not present at all when Phinuit made his first appearance.
I have also made inquiry of Mr. Cocke as to what happened when he
witnessed Mrs. Piper's Phinuit control, and he assured me that he had
never seen the Phinuit control at all, that he had witnessed " Chlorine "
only. To say the least, therefore, there is no evidence to corroborate
Phinuit's statement about the origin of the name Phinuit.
54 Mr. R. Hodgson.
On November 17th I questioned Phinuit still further, pressing him
with the apparent inconsistencies between statements of his, and the
difficulty of maintaining that he was Scliville when such name could
not be found in the hospitals where he said he had been. I asked
him if Mr. Cocke had not also suggested to him those details about
his life which he has frequently given, but he maintained resolutely
that this was not the case, that he was Scliville, that he was born in
Metz, afterwards went to Marseilles, and studied under Dupuytren in
Paris, and that his name ought to appear in the register of physicians
in Metz. On my reminding him that he had formerly said that he
was born at Marseilles, he queried whether he had not told me that it
was either Marseilles or Metz, and he added that he was sure
now that it was Metz. I find on examining my notes that
Phinuit stated at my early sittings that he was born at Marseilles, but
on June 5th, 1891, that he was born either at Metz or Marseilles.
At the close of a sitting on November 20th, 1891, after Phinuit
had said "Au revoir," and was in the act of "departing," he murmured,
"Jean Phinuit—no, not Phinuit—Scliville." This was repeated, and then
a third time he began, " Jean [here came a word which I could not
* hear distinctly, but it was not "Phinuit"] Scliville. Ha! ha! I've
got my name at last." I referred to this incident at my next sitting,
November 21st, and Phinuit said that he had recollected his middle
name, which was Alaen. He reiterated that he was born in Metz, but
thinks that he left Metz when he was very young. His full name was.
Dr. Jean Alaen Scliville. At more than one later sitting I have tried
to shake Phinuit's belief or statement that he is " Dr. Scliville " the
" spirit " of a once living human being, but without success.
These recent incidents, taking into account the statements of Mr.
J. M. Piper (p. 47) and Phinuit's distinct prevarication concerning
the spelling of his name (p. 49), strongly suggest that Phinuit found
himself absolutely "cornered " at last on the name Phinuit, and so sur
rendered it with an ingenious explanation of its origin which he had
worked up on the very basis of my objections. This hypothesis is
strengthened by the fact, as I think, that Phinuit's memory is marvel
lously good, so good that it is scarcely credible that he could have
forgotten the circumstances which he now alleges occurred on his first
appearance.
§ 9. Relation of Phinuit to Mrs. Piper.
( I have not been able to trace any continuity of memory between
Phinuit and Mrs. Piper. I have already stated my belief that Mrs.
Piper is entirely ignorant of what occurs during the trance, and Phinuit
is, or pretends to be, equally unaware of the knowledge possessed by Mrs.
Piper, and of the incidents which happen to her in her ordinary life.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 55
On one occasion, not long before a sitting (June 30th, 1888), Mrs.
Piper was startled by a very near sudden clap of thunder, and Phinuit,
on being afterwards questioned, appeared to have no knowledge of the
circumstance, and apparently tried to guess at what had occurred.
Similarly on questioning Phinuit at one of my early sittings concerning
the life of Mrs. Piper, he professed ignorauce on the subject, but said
that he would " find out things " about her. At another sitting he
said that he had been enjoined by Mrs. Piper's relatives not to talk
about her and her family (members of which at that time occasionally
resorted to Phinuit for information and advice). Soon afterwards,
however, Phinuit told me of incidents in connection with Mrs. Piper
which I think that Mrs. Piper herself would never have mentioned to
me, but it is uncertain whether he possessed this knowledge by virtue
of Mrs. Piper's possessing it, or whether he acquired it by whatever
supernormal means he uses with ordinary sitters, or simply by conversa
tion with Mrs. Piper's relatives. I have also met with several cases
where Mrs. Piper knew not a little of the sitter's ordinary environment,
names of friends, &c., and yet this information was not given by
Phinuit^ Further, indeed, I have known Phinuit under such circum
stances to be confused and to make mistakes upon points well known to
Mrs. Piper. Still, all this "ignorance" may be "the perfection of
acting " on the part of Phinuit, and possibly many of the details given
by Phinuit in his attempts to describe my distant doings were specula
tions resting upon Mrs. Piper's knowledge. (See Nos. 50 and 51.)
Recently, in giving a diagnosis, he spoke of. " bronical," but
immediately corrected it to " bronchial," and a day or two later
Mrs. Piper, in her normal waking state, pronounced the word "bronical,"
without correcting it.i But an incident of this kind hardly proves
anything, since it might be alleged that Phinuit's mistake was literally
a lapsus linguae of Mrs. Piper's organism, and therefore explicable on
either hypothesis—of secondary personality, or of extraneous intel
ligence.
It seems hard to prove that Phinuit possesses all the know
ledge of Mrs. Piper, and still harder to prove that he possesses none
of it, but I incline myself to think that if Phinuit is the secondary
personality of Mrs. Piper, the case does not belong to the class referred
to by Mr. Leaf (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 560), where " the abnormal
state is conscious of what goes on in the normal," but rather to a type
where the change to the trance personality involves a partial oblitera-
i Since the above was written I mentioned the circumstances to Mrs. Piper and
explained the word, and she was apparently unaware that it should bo pronounced
bronchial. Later still, after I had been sent out of the room by Phinuit during a
sitting, I lingered within earshot for the purpose of taking notes, and heard Phinuit
say Ironieal without making any correction.
56 Mr. R. Hodgson.
tion of the facts known to the normal waking self. (See " A Case of
Double Consciousness," Proceedings, Part XIX.) Supposing that
there is such a partial obliteration, I have no suggestion to offer as to
its extent, unless it be that Phinuit possesses the subconsciousness of
Mis. Piper, so that he knows all that Mrs. Piper has known and
has forgotten, but is ignorant of what she can still consciously remember.
But, again, I am unable to trace any connection between the apparent
deficiencies in Mrs. Piper's sense-organs during the trance state and
any limitations of the knowledge exhibited by Phinuit.
^1 made one attempt only, unsuccessful, to hypnotise Mrs. Piper.
Professor James, after several trials with her, succeeded in producing a
semi-hypnosis which he deseribes as " very different from her medium-
trance." (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. G53.) I have frequently given
Phinuit post-hypnotic suggestions concerning acts to be performed by
Mrs. Piper in the waking state, but entirely without result. The
attempts of Professor James in the same direction wore also unavailing,
and we have both tried to obtain, during Mrs. Piper's waking state,
some manifestation of Phinuit by gesture, speech, or automatic writing,
in reply to our inquiries and commands, and during the trance state
some manifestation of Mrs. Piper ; but no response of any kind was
elicited from the temporarily " hidden " personality. )
§10. Conclusion.
These considerations are all that I can offer at present towards the
elucidation of the Phinuit personality, and they leave me still unsatisfied
with any simple interpretation. As experiments are still proceeding,
I have not entered into such a detailed discussion as it seems to me
would be desirable were this report to be looked upon as final. So
far, however, I am convinced, as regaixls the bare information shown
by Phinuit, that it cannot be accounted for entirely by thought-trans
ference from the sitters, and that at least some hypothesis which goes
as far as thought-transference from the minds of distant living persons
is demanded. Although Phinuit purports to obtain most of his infor
mation from " spirits," he has at times stated that some of his informa
tion he obtained himself from the sitter's "surroundings" (as once in my
own case), or from the sitter's "astral light" (Report, No. 23)—a phrase
which he doubtless acquired from a previous sitter, just as he learned
the word " ethereal " from myself. Possibly Phinuit may be assisted
in some way by inanimate objects which have been much worn or
handled by specific persons, and, as I have said, they seem to add to
the chances of his success. There are some striking examples of
this already referred to in the reports, reminding one of the singular
term " psychometry " (originated, I believe, by J. R. Buchanan in
1812), so common in Spiritualistic literature. Phinuit apparently
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 57
claims that such objects bring him into relation with the persons who
have handled them, whether such persons be living or dead. Now
where the sitter knows the circumstances connected with the object,
the associations will probably form a specially vivid cluster of ex
periences in his mind, conscious or subconscious, owing to the very
presence of the object within the field of his perception, and this may
help Phinuit to discover and disentangle these associations by direct
thought-transference. Where, on the other hand, the sitter is ignorant
of the circumstances connected with the object, it may, at any rate,
form a sort of point de repere enabling Phinuit to get telepathically,
through the mind of the sitter, at the mind of the distant living
person from whom the object was obtained and who knows of its
associations.
And here we touch what is perhaps the most important question
concerned in the phenomena connected with Mrs. Piper's trance-state.
£ Putting aside all the facts which can be explained by direct thought-
transference from the sitter, and considering simply the information
given which was not known to the sitter and which purports to come
from " deceased " persons, but which was known to, and afterwards
verified by, distant living persons,—is there sufficient ground for
concluding that Phinuit is in direct communication with " deceased "
persons, and that he is a " deceased " person himself as he alleges 1 I
think that the evidence here presented, together with that previously
published, is very far from sufficient to establish any such conclusion,
and indeed the failures in answering test-questions and the apparent
ignorance displayed in other ways by the alleged " communicators,''
such as I have instanced^ m ooimection with Mrs. Blodgett's experi-
ments (pp. 10-16), the " E." control (p. 44), and the additional cases
furnished me by Miss W. (pp^4*M4-),^constitute almost insuperable
objections to the supposition that the "deceased" persons concerned
were in direct communication with Phinuit, at least in anything like
the fulness, so to speak, of their personality." Whether Phinuit may
not possibly get into some indirect communication—actual, though
partial and fragmentary—with " deceased " persons, is a much more
difficult question to determine, and I venture to think that this
hypothesis is one that should be continually borne in mind.
(The hypothesis which for a long time seemed to me the most
satisfactory is that of an auto-hypnotic trance in which a secondary
personality of Mrs. Piper either erroneously believes itself to be, or
consciously and falsely pretends to be, the "spirit" of a deceased
human being, Phinuit or Scliville, and further fictitiously represents
various other personalities according to the latent ideas of some of
the sitters. Several facts which 1 have mentioned—especially con
cerning the name " Dr. Fin-nc " as that of Mr. Cocke's " control,"
■
58 Mr. R. Hodgson.
witnessed by Mrs. Piper before her trances began, the adoption of
this name by Mrs. Piper's trance-personality, its corruption into
Phinnuit, later into Phinuit, and the subsequent apparent prevarica
tion to explain these facts away—seem to point strongly towards this
view. My confidence, however, in this explanation has been consider
ably shaken by further familiarity with the Phinuit personality and
other allied "manifestations" of Mrs. Piper's trance-state, and I have
no certain conviction that any single theory which has been put
forward is really the correct one. I do not know of any precise
parallel to the phenomena which we are here discussing, among any
of the recorded types of hypnotic trance where the action of other
than embodied human intelligence is a plainly superfluous hypothesis.
It is much to be desired that any of our members who may happen
to have ample opportunity for experiment with hypnotic subjects,
should, by endeavouring to reproduce cases akin to Mrs. Piper's, see
what can be done in the way of demonstrating whether these phe
nomena can be fully accounted for without supposing the action of
such extraneous intelligence. \
Addendum. May, 1892.
The foregoing report is based upon sittings not later than 1891.
'Mrs. Piper has given some sittings very recently which materially
strengthen the evidence for the existence of some faculty that goes
beyond thought-transference from the sitters, and which certainly
prinid facie appear to render some form of the "spiritistic" hypothesis
more plausible. I hope to discuss these among other results in a later
article.
Obsei'vations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 59'
APPENDIX.
DETAILED REPORTS OF SITTINGS.
The following accounts of sittings comprise nearly all the records
which I have received (before November, 1891). I possess several
records which I have no permission to use, and several others which,
cither from the fragmentariness of the account or the insufficiency of
the explanations of the statements made at the sitting, I regard as of no
value ; but all of these that I omit, I believe, are favourable to the view
that Mrs. Piper exhibits some supernormal faculty. So far as I am aware,
I have not omitted any other records in my possession—except, of
course, the two series of stenographic reports dealt with by the
Committee of the former American Society for Psychical Research1
and the recent series concerning articles sent by Mr. " V." (See p. 132.)
It is hardly needful to point out that the records differ widely in
evidential value. Some of them are made from very full notes taken
during the sittings, others from memory long afterwards, but I think
that all of them will prove of some service in our endeavour to get at
the real meaning of the Phinuit personality, of which it is desirable to
have as complete a history as possible.
The series of reports 1—17 are of sittings which came under my
own immediate arrangement or were noted by me, and may be regarded
as a representative (not selected) group.
Reports 18—23 were forwarded to me by Professor James, and
reports 24—28 by the Rev. M. J. Savage ; reports 36 and 38 I received
owing to my having made the appointment for the sittings. In
connection with the work of the Society I ascertained the names of
many persons who had had sittings with Mrs. Piper, and endeavoured
to obtain accounts from them, but with little success. Reports 29, 30,
33, 34, 37, 39, and 40 represent the result. Mrs. Piper also furnished
me, at my request, with some names of persons who had had sittings
with her, and hence reports 31, 32, and 35. Report 41 is of specific
experiments made by myself at different times with locks of hair.
Reports 42—53 form a representative group of sittings given by
Mrs. Piper since her return to America.
I have also the stenographic reports of my attempts in 1888 (May
26th, June 2nd, 9th, 16th, and 30th) to obtain better explanations from
Phinuit himself of his own " control," &c. (see pp. 2, 3). I have used
these largely and quoted from them in the previous pages. It seems
unnecessary to print further extracts at present.
' See my reference to this on p. 2, and the remark of Professor James in S.P.R.
Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 652-3. The stenographic reports were for the private use
of the Committee.
-GO Mr. R. Hodgson,
1. B. Hoihjson. First Sittin'j. May 4th, 1887. 10.30 a.m.
[From notes made on return to my rooms immediately after the sitting.]
Phinuit began, after the usual introduction, by describing members of my
family.
"Mother living, father dead, little brother dead." [True.] Father and
mother described correctly, though not with much detail. In connection
with the enumeration of the members of our family, Phinuit tried to get a
name beginning with "R," but failed. [A little sister of mine, named
Rebecca, died when I was very young, I think less than eighteen months
old.]
" Four of you living besides mother. " [True.]
Phinuit mentioned the name "Fred." I said that it might be my cousin.
"He says you went to school together. He goes on jumping-frogs, and
laughs. He says he used to get the better of you. He had convulsive
movements before his death, struggles. He went off in a sort of spasm.
You were not there. " [My cousin Fred far excelled any other person that
I have seen in the games of leap-frog, fly the garter, &c. He took very
long flying jumps, and whenever he played, the game was lined by crowds of
school-mates to watch him. He injured his spine in a gymnasium in
Melbourne, Australia, in 1871, and was carried to the hospital, where he
lingered for a fortnight, with occasional spasmodic convulsions, in one of
which he died.]
Phinuit described a lady, in general terms, dark hair, dark eyes, slim
figure, ifec, and said that she was much closer to me than any other person :
that she "died slowly. Too bad you weren't with her. You were at a
distance. It was a great pain to both of you that you weren't there. She
would have sent you a message, if she had known she was going. She had
two rings ; one was buried with her body ; the other ought to have gone to
you. The second part of her first name is— sie. " [True, with the exception
of the statement about the rings, which may or may not be true. I have
been unable to obtain any information about them. No ring ever passed be
tween the lady and myself. She died in Australia in 1879. There were no
relations between her family and ours after 1875. After trying in vain to
"hear distinctly " the first part of the name, Phinuit gave up the attempt,
and asked mo what the first name was. I told him. I shall refer to it
afterwards as "Q."]
In reply to Phinuit's question as to the name of my living brother, I said
"Tom." " There are two Toms," said Phinuit, " both brothers ; the spirit
brother is Tom as well." [True.]
John was given as the name of my mother's father. [Since ascertained
to be not true.]
Name3 of William and R ibert -said to be not living—were mentioned ;
and also Alfred, Alice, Arthur, Carrie, Charlie, Ellen, James, Lizzie, and
Marie, but nothing specific was stated in connection with them.
During the sitting I could not recall anyone named Marie, one of the
names which Phinuit said he heard. When "Charlie" was mentioned I
thought of a living friend of mine and said so. No further details were
given. As I walked down the street after the sitting was over, it flashed
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 61
upon me that Charlie was the name of a friend, an Oxford University man,
who had died in India (I think in 1885), that he was engaged to a young
lady whose first name was Marie, whom I knew exceedingly well and was
accustomed to hear called Marie, and that these names had been connected
in some way by Phinuit. This incident is doubly suggestive, as regards the
extreme importance of stenographic reports in investigations of this kind.
The relation between Marie and Charlie might not have been directly
suggested by Phinuit at all, out might have been the result of my own
mental action afterwards. On the other hand, during the sitting, I denied
ever having known a Marie, and did not think of the Charlie who had paid a
special visit to my rooms in Cambridge, and whom I had accompanied to>
the station on his departure. As I have learnt by later experience, Phinuit
frequently mentions a name, having some specific facts to give in connection
with it if the sitter recognises the person Phinuit has in mind. Thus, Fred
is mentioned, and I say that it might be my cousin, and Phinuit details
highly characteristic marks of identity. Charlie is mentioned, and, possibly,
I think of the wrong Charlie, and get nothing further.
My younger sister was rightly spoken of by Phinuit as married, and he
used a phrase, the exact words of which I could not recall, implying clearly
that she had three children. This was true, but I gave no sign of approval,
whereas I had been assenting to at least the important statements previously
made by Phinuit. Following my silence, Phinuit repeated the statement,
and I again let it pass without agreeing ; whereupon he attempted to turn
the phrase and have another "shot." "What I mean is that there are
three in the family, don't you see ? There's herself, and her husband, and
one child. That makes three. " I then told him that he had been right at
first. " Why didn't you say so, then ? And there's another one coming very
soon, and it's a boy." [True. My sister, who lives in Australia, had a
fourth child, a boy, before the end of May.]
2. R. Hodgson. Secmul Sitting. November 18th, 1887. 12—1 p.m.
[From notes made during the sitting.]
November 18th, 1887.
Various persons mentioned as in previous sitting. Fred—with
description of death —Harry, &c. [Harry, Fred's brother, still living in
Australia.] Other incidents repeated. The following is chiefly new
matter.
Phinuit mentioned " Q." and apparently said that she had a sister and a
brother. [Not true, as I believe ; I think that there was only one other
child in the family, still-born ; I do not know the sex.]
Phinuit said that "Q." would soon be able to " control ";—referred to
a black lace collar, with a pin with a head, also a ring with a stone, and
said that "Q." wanted the pin and the ring to be given to me. [I
recollect the collar distinctly, and the pin vaguely, but cannot recall any
specific incidents attaching to them. I do not recall a "ring with a stone."}
School-mate, with lot of freckles, little fellow, red hair, name that
sounded something like Wingford—he lived with his grandmother. [This
recalled a school-mate of mine—Australia, about 1868. One day I took him
62 Mr. R. Hodgson.
on a bathing excursion, and he was very anxious to get home by ;i certain
time, becauso his grandmother had told him to do so, and I learnt for the
first time that his mother was dead. I felt a special tenderness for the lxiy
after this, but do not know what became of him. His name was not
Wingford, but I struggled vainly at the sitting to recall it. Some hours later
it came—Grimwood.]
Referred to another school-mate mentioned by " Wingford "—this other
was lame—the name sounded like Brookford. [Grimwood used to sit on the
front row, and on the same row, and I think next to Grimwood, sat a boy
who was lame. His name was not Brookford, but I think was something
like Brooks.]
Referred to Charles Knight, and said his uncle was present. [I think that
Charles Knight sat immediately behind me in the same class, but I also knew
a Charlie Knight at a Sunday-school, and cannot distinguish them clearly.]
Edward—a Dr.—"Tell him he uses his brain too much." He hasn't
been very well. [I was associated in S. P. R. matters with a Dr. Edward
, whose other work was slightly straining him at the time, but hardly
«o as to justify Phinuit's statement.]
Weldon. Wilton: "He's all right." [l knew both a Weldon and a
Wilton intimately, the former in England, the latter in Australia, but nothing
specific was mentioned concerning either of them.]
[I here made inquiry concerning an incident which occurred on
Nowmbcr 9th, 1887. On the afternoon of that day a lady called upon me,
with whom I had corresponded concerning her " mediumistic " (private)
experiences. During the interview she obtained an "impression" with
reference to myself, that she said came from a person who was slow at
expressing his thoughts, and who had never " communicated " before. She
thought the communication came from a man ; but the only word she could
get was Lakes. I described the occurrence, and asked Phinuit if he could
explain it.] He said at once, " Henry Lakes," connected with Emily and
Sarah. Both " passed " [dead], he also ; lived at house at corner of a Park-
street in England, an old house. [These remarks recalled to me an elderly
man, who lived in a house at, or close to, the corner of Park-street and the
passage from St. John-street into Park-street. I think that two young ladies
lived in the same house, which I passed several times a day on my way to
and from my lodgings in Park-street. I have no remembrance of ever
knowing the names of any of them. Mr. Myers inquired, and cannot
ascertain that anyone of the name of Lakes lived there.]
J. gave a description of Mr. J. [Full name given.] Said J. was in
spirit land some time, couldn't tell exactly how long, difficulty in estimating
time. George J. mathematics, some paper in a book in a desk. Tell Al.
something —to get it ; will be useful. [There was an obscurity about this
message, but my impression was that Phinuit wished to convey to me that
Mr. J . was dead. The family was identified clearly enough. The eldest
son George had specialised in mathematics, and one of the daughters is
named Alice. I had not heard anything about the J. 's since leaving England
in April, 1887. Two years after the sitting I learnt that Mrs. J., who
was a special friend of mine, died on November 10th, 1887. Mr. J. is
still living.]
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. C3
Referred to beautiful teeth of "Q." Said that she wanted mo to keep
the book of poems always with me, the book which I had sent her, and had
received back. I should recollect the writing in front of it, which I had
written myself. [" Q.'s" teeth were not beautiful. On the contrary, a year
or two before her death, the state of her teeth compelled the drawing of a
large number of them. Many were taken out at one time, and the opera
tion entailed upon her a severe nervous exhaustion, from which, however,
she was eventually supposed to have recovered. I had lent " Q." Tlw Princess
(Tennyson), which had been returned. It is the only book in my possession,
and I think the only book of any kind, which I had ever lent her. This
book is now with most of my other books in England. It was my custom at
that time to write favourite lines on the fly-leaves of special books. I do
not recall with certainty what lines, if any, I had written in this book.]
Marie. Aunt of Marie, in spirit world, appeared, but with veil before,
couldn't impress or be seen distinctly, hair parted in middle, curled back
•over ears, peculiar crook in nose. [See note concerning name Marie in first
sitting. I know nothing of her aunt.]
******
[Phinuit said he could describe my rooms by "leaving the medium"
for five minutes, would try when I had the earliest sitting some morning,
when not confused by atmospheres of different spirits and different persons.]
3. R. Hodgson. Third Sitting. November 29th, 1887. 9.30 a.m.
[The only special note which I can find concerning this sitting is the
following, which I had written as an appendix to my account of the second
sitting.]
Tried to describe the room at next sitting, which was poor, chiefly
repetition ; but did not " leave the medium." The description was, on the
whole, a failure, and failed as description of the rooms at the time.
4. R. Hodgson. Fourth Sitting. December 4th, 1887.
[From notess made during the sitting.]
Just returned from sitting with Mrs. Viper. At my previous sitting I
had arranged with "Dr. Phinuit" that he should make inquiries of my
(dead) friends, and communicate the results to me at the next subsequent
sitting. I had arranged for sitting on Wednesday, November 30th, 1887,
9.30 a.m., the first which Mrs. P. should give that morning, but Mrs. P.
begged to be allowed to give a sitting at 8.30 a.m. to a lady who was going
to New York, to which I assented. On Wednesday morning Mrs. P. told
me that she had considerable difficulty in going into trance for her previous
visitor. After waiting for about half an hour with me, Mrs. Piper gave up
the sitting, as she could not go into trance. The sitting of this morning
was substituted for Wednesday's.
Usual preliminaries, and then "Dr. Phinuit" started away at once without
any remark at all by me. to reproduce what he recollected of his conversa
tions. I changed my seat to the floor partly behind Mrs. Piper, where I
could get enough light to make notes.
64 Mr. R. Hodgson.
1. Information purporting to have been received from " Q. " The chief
new matter was :
(a) That I had given her a book, "Dr. Phinuit " thinks, of poems, and
I had written her name in it, in connection with her birthday.
[Correct.]
(6) [Correct. This includes a reference to circumstance*
under which I had a very special conversation with "Q." I
think it impossible that "Q." could have spoken of this to any
other person. It occurred in Australia in 1875.]
(c) That she "left the body" in England, and that I was across the
country. [This is incorrect. "Q."died in Australia. I was in
England.]
2. Information purporting to have been received from my cousin Fred.
The chief new matter was :
(a) That I was not there when ho swung on the trapeze and fell and
injured his spine, finally dying in a convulsion. [At my first sitting
the accident was not described, only the death, at which I was
rightly said not to have been present. At this sitting the accident was
described, at which also I was rightly said not to have been present.]
(b) That he wanted to remind me of Harris at school, who was a very
able man, &c. [I believe it was also stated that Fred and myself
talked together about Harris, and that Harris had a high opinion of
Fred's ability. This was all true. Harris was a schoolmaster who
taught Fred and myself (Melbourne, Australia), about 1868 or
1869. I saw Harris, I think, a short time after my cousin's death
(in 1871), and ho expressed his regrets, &c. I do not recall having
seen or heard anything of Harris since. ]
(c) That his father was my mother's brother. [True.]
All the preceding matter came steadily out, after which "Br. Phinuit"
appeared to have exhausted his recollections, and to be attempting to get
further information there and then. He referred to a church to which both
" Q." and myself used to go, and then asked if it was in "Hanover Square."
I replied, No, whereupon he told me not to note anything until he got it
' ' clearer. "
"Dr. Phinuit" then charged me with weighing too much who he was,
where he came from, &c, while he was trying to give me information, and
said that this harassed and confused him. I should, he said, be as
"negative" as possible during the sitting. [The charge was justified, as I had
actually drifted into the consideration of what Phinuit was, &c.]
He referred to a "Joe," but told me nothing special about him.
[Although I had a special friend in Australia whom I used to call Joe.]
He said he heard "something about being in Yorkshire." Was the
lady [i.e., " Q. "] in Yorkshiro ? (No.) [I have spent holidays in Yorkshire,
and my father was a Yorkshireman.]
******
" Dr. Phinuit " then said there was something in my pocket connected
with a loss, and asked me to empty the objects from my pocket into her
and. I asked which pocket? "The right pants pocket." I gave
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 65
her each article in turn, and she rejected all, and then said it was
in my other pocket. She rejected purse and lens from this pocket and
grabbed at the keys. She (" Dr. Phinuit ") said I had lost some of my keys
near some mountains. There was a big mountain near ; the keys were lying
near a walk, by some leaves. There was a cottage near. The keys were
still there. They were on a ring, something different from the holder of the
keys in her hand. What held the lost keys was round. [I had lost my keys
in the Adirondack Mountains, and hunted vainly for them. They were
found after my departure from camp on a spot answering to "Phinuit's"
description. Before their recovery, however, I had been compelled to
obtain duplicates of most of the keys, and had fastened these on a heart-
shaped holder. The old keys were fastened on a common key-rwiy. All that
" Phinuit " said was known to me. " Phinuit " was right in all except in the
statement that the lost keys were still in the mountains. At the time of the
sitting they were locked up in my desk. I believe that some of the old
keys were on the new bunch, though I cannot be certain of this, not having
noted this point at the time.]
I asked "Dr. Phinuit" to get me information, before my next sitting,
concerning: 1. Full name of lady—"Q." 2. Detailed description of face.
3. Place of dying. 4. The church to which "Dr. Phinuit" referred.
5. Details of the finding of my keys, with all the persons concerned.
*****
6. R. Hodgson, Fifth Sitting. December 23rd, 1887.
[From notes made during the sitting.]
Fred says you came from Australia. [True.] Lady, "Q.,"says so too,
says she was there and knew you there, and used to be a great friend of your
sister. [True.] You heard about her death by letter from your sister. [True.]
[Little confusion about letters. This note was made during the sitting.]
You went into Germany. Fred went with you in spirit. You went to
Germany after father went into spirit. (No.) Got awfully provoked with a
lady in Germany. You said she was deceitful, called her a storyteller. [True.
While in Germany, in 1882, I charged a lady with falsehood under somewhat
peculiar circumstances. My father died in 1885.]
Harris. [See previous sitting.]
W'ordsworth and St. John's. Fred mentions it, i. e. , Fred mentions that
one of my chief reasons for choosing St. John's College was the fact that
Wordsworth was a Johnian. [True, though Fred died in 1871, and it was
years afterwards when I first contemplated going to Cambridge.]
Mary Chadwick. [No significance. I know a family named Chadwick, but.
not any Mary Chadwick.]
Ellis? Bates? Connected or associated with "Q." [I know nothing
about "Q. 's " companions between 1875 and 1879.] Isn't her name Eller-
ton ? (No.) Doesn't it end with " on " ? (You must tell me.) Her hair is.
brown, blue eyes, she's rather small, slim, hair darker than yours, prominent
nose, considerable colour in cheeks, rather pretty teeth. She says she died
in England. (Wrong. Your description of " Q." all wrong.) [Note made
during sitting. She went over facts correctly.] [The preceding note apparently
means that the general description and place of death of "Q.," Australia,
were correctly given.]
f
GG Mr. R. Hodgson.
We then had a long talk about the " Phinuit's " powers, &o., and he said
that I had confused him by not letting him go his own way, that when he
was trying to get through his memories of what Fred had told him I inter
rupted him, &c., and that he got mixed up about what " Q. " told him, that
I had asked him too many things at once, &c. ; said he would ascertain
full name of "Q." and her exact description, and that would be enough.
[The above sitting began by Phinuit's saying that he had had long talks
with Fred, and that he now knew all about me. that Fred in spirit had
accompanied me wherever I went, &c. I interrupted Phinuit by demanding
replies to my specific questions asked at previous sittings.]
0. K. Hudgsuu. Sixth Sitting. January 20M, 1888.
[From notes taken during sitting, with several minor points recollected after
wards during the same day.]
Had a sitting this morning with Mrs. Piper.
Phinuit referred to "Q.," said she spoke of a Loo—something. [Louie
was the name of a cousin of "Q.," very intimate with "Q." and myself in
childhood.] Said her full name was "Q.'' A . Is that right? (No.)
Well, she says "Q." A . [A is the surname of other cousins of
" Q.," who frequently stayed at her house, and were well known to me.]
Phinuit then proceeded to give a general description of "Q.," right so
far as it went, and described the eyes as "dark." She then began to rub
the right eye on the under side, saying, "There's a spot here. This eye
(left) is brown, the other eye has a spot in it of a light colour, in the iris.
This spot is straggly, of a bluish cast. It is a birth-mark. It looks as if it
had been thrown on. [Being asked to describe its shape.] It is like this,
running in towards the pupil." [Presenting the back of one hand towards
me, with fingers pointing downwards, and tracing on the little finger-nail,
with the forefinger of the other hand, an acute-angled triangle with apex
upward—thus :—
I asked her to draw it, the result bsing the figure, a reproduction of which
is attempted below :— . t
This was drawn with the block-book held away from Mrs. P., where she
could not see what she was drawing, her eyes being 1 ehind and cIosi to the
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 67
block-book.] "This (U) is the top part of the iris. This (L) is the bottom.
This (P) is the pupil. The light part is here" [making the other lines in the
ligure].
[" Q." had a splash of what I should call grey (rlther than blue) in the
right eye, occupying the position and having very nearly the shape assigned
by Phinuit. I should have drawn it as I remember it, thus :—
©.
It was very peculiar ; a little jagged in the edges, and sharply and dis
tinctly marked off from the rest of the brown iris. I asked Phinuit how he
obtained the information about the eyes. He said that " Q. " was standing
close to him and showing him her right eye so that he could see it clearly,
and siying that that was what I wanted. This peculiarity in the eye was
what I had in mind when I asked Phinuit for a detailed description of
" Q.'s " face.]
*****
7. Mrs. Howard Okie. February, 1888.
[Appointments made by R. H. No name given.]
Mrs. Okie had two sittings with Mrs. Piper, at both of which I was
present. I took notes during the first sitting on February 1st, 1888,
but I cannot find any notes of the second sitting, on February 8th,
1888, except a brief entry in my diary. At this second sitting Mrs.
Okie's father was again described, and said to be her father. The name was
also given, being spelt out Vaughn, the real name being Vaughan. There
was also what apparently purported to be the direct "control" by Mr.
Vaughan, addressing Mrs. Okie as his " daughter Lily," according to Mr.
Vaughan's custom when alive. "Lily, I passed away in my chair." It was
also stated that he was reading Mill's Logic when he died. Mr. Vaughan
died in Providence, R.I. He was found dead in his chair before the fire,
with a book in his hand, but Mrs. Okie has been unable to ascertain the name
uf the book. Mr. Vaughan was much interested in philosophical questions,
and talked with me about Mill, Hamilton, Spencer, &c. In this second
sitting the name Henry was also given, and Phinuit stated that Henry was
managing the money matters all right. Henry is the name of Mrs. Okie's
brother, but the statement about him made by Phinuit had no special
significance.
Mrs. Okie writes : " My first sitting with Mrs. Piper was not at all
satisfactory to me. There seemed to me to be a great deal of guessing and
' hedging. ' As we were leaving the house we met friends, two of whom
had known mo since I was a young girl. Owing to this occurrence I could
not help feeling a bit suspicious on my next visit when the medium was able
to give the full names of many of my relatives with perfect accuracy and
confidence ; but nothing was given to me which those friends did not know."
f 2
OS Mr. R. Hodgson.
8. Saml. A. Hopkins, M.D. Spriwj of 1888.
[Appointment made by R. H. No name given.]
235, Marlborough-street, June 27th, 1890.
My Dear Hodgson, —I have no notes of my sitting with Mm. Piper, nor
was there anything remarkable to record, save, possibly, one incident, which
is perfectly clear in my mind. After the usual rubbish of mentioning a lot
of names—John, Will, Fanny, etc, she seemed to stick at Lily, and insisted
that I knew Lily, and asked me who the doctor was who was near Lily, and
insisted that I knew him. [Mrs. Okie's husband is a doctor.—R. H.] Then
she said, " There is someone here who has been in spirit land only a short
time, who wants to send a message to Lily. V—A—U—G—H—N—
Vaughn wants to send a message to Lily. He wants you to give her his
kind regards. Don't forget it, now. Vaughn has only been here a little
while, and is a little l tme." Mrs. Okie's father had been dead only a short
time, and I afterwards found was a little lame, though I had never discovered
it. The other statements of Mrs. Piper's were either wrong or entirely
negative. ... S. A. Hopkins.
9. T. P. Derham. May 2Lsf-22n//, 1888.
[Appointments made by R. H. No name given.]
Notes were made by me during the sitting. Mr. Derham is my brother-
in-law, having married my younger sister. He resides in Melbourne,
Australia. The sitting was a successful one, though Phinuit made a few
mistakes. Several circumstances mentioned were unknown to me, among
them the following. Early in the first sitting, Phinuit said: "Something
lost. Pin. Watch chain. What the devil is that thing you've lost ? " And
later on in the same sitting returned to it : " You've lost something. It's a
funny round thing ; a ring thing, don't you know ? Black fellow got it.
You'll never see it again. You lost it escapading." Mr. Derham says:—"I
was the last to leave the railway carriage at Niagara, and left my field-glass
suspended by its strap to a bar below the roof. I have no doubt the coloured
conductor secreted it. I had telegrams sent to every station, but never re
covered the glass."
Mr. Derham's comments on the sittings sufficiently explain their char
acter:—" August I8th, 1890. —I have made no study of the subject, but am
inclined to think that the condition into which Mrs. Piper seemed to pass
was real and not assumed. For one thing, I do not think a nervous woman
could go through the teeth-grinding she did without shuddering. The only
incident that would incline me to the contrary view is that when she said I
had lost something she put her hand to my watch-chain, which had a short
pendant chain, but nothing at the end of the pendant. She seemed to infer
that what was lost had been attached to the pendant ; though she did not
say so.
" I may say that scarcely anything she said was in my mind the moment
before she spoke, though everything of which I now have any knowledge,
except prophecies, was stored somewhere in my mind.
" I was much impressed with her groping after ' Eggleston,' my partner's
name. I feel sure that if it had been a little less difficult she would have
found the name. [The nearest approach was ' Everson. ']
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 69
"The history of my family, living and dead, was given straight out—
without any guessing and without the slightest assistance from either Dr.
Hodgson or myself. I think I did'not speak at all, and Dr. Hodgson only
spoke to bring her to the point.
" If I remember rightly, Mrs. Piper represents herself as taken possession
of by the spirit of a deceased doctor whose name I forget. (Is it Phinuit ?)
In fact, the first words she uttered after ' going off ' were, ' Comment vous
portez vous ? ' and she continued, with more or less constancy, to speak in
broken English. I do not for a moment believe this pretence, and am,
therefore, inclined to say that Mrs. Piper introduces mine humbug into her
performances, though, as I do not understand the subject, she may be
herself deceived. The explanation that would harmonise with my impression
at the interviews is, that she had the power of reading, not my thoughts at
the moment, but facts stored away in the recesses of my memory.
" I do not knowthat I can usefully add anything, except that I am naturally
sceptical, and, by training, incredulous."
10. Mrs. Bludyett. Miiy 30th, 1888. 9.30 a.m.
Mrs. Blodgett was anxious to obtain a special test, if possible, con
cerning her deceased sister. She gives an account of this in the
following statement : —
Miss Hannah Wild died July 28th, 1886. She was a strong Baptist,—
never went to any other church. About one year before her death a paper
in Boston published what claimed to be a message from our dead mother.
My sister was very much wrought up about it.
I had been very much interested in the subject for about two years,
but as far as I had gone had never got anything true, only what could
have baen mind-reading. So I told sister all my experience and asked her
to write me a private letter, and if ever she came back she was to tell me
what was in it. If she could not tell I was not to believe it was her spirit.
We talked it over every day for weeks, in fact every time she had a bad
spell I would say, " Sister, you have not written me the letter." One day,
about a week before she died, she said, " Bring me pen and paper. If spirit
return is true, the world should know. I will write the letter. It will also
prove that the dead do not lie asleep in their graves waiting for a resurrec
tion, like the Second Adventists believe."
She wrote the letter,—sealed it (no mortal hands were to touch it), and
put it into a tin box with bank book, where it was to remain until I got a
copy of it that sounded like her. When she handed me the box she said,
" If I can come back, it will be like ringing the City Hall bell." She spoke
about the letter often after. I told her I would wait for an answer if I had
to get an English medium to answer.
My hands have never touched that letter. It is in my husband's safe.
When I sent to Professor James, I took it out with scissors.—Yours,
Mrs. Bessie Blodgett, sister of Miss Hannah Wild.
Holyoke, July, 1890.
P.S.—The letter is in my husband's safe, where it has been kept ever
since we were married.
70 Mr. R. Hodgson.
Mrs. Bloclgett, having seen n notice of the American S. P. R. in it
paper in the latter part of 1886, in which the name of Professor
James was mentioned, wrote to him, telling him the circumstances of
the letter written by her sister. As a result of the correspondence.
Professor James endeavoured to obtain some information from
Phinuit. A brief account of the experiment, which was a failure, was
given by Professor James (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 657), but it appears
to ms to be of such extreme importance in the endeavour to estimate
the significance of the Phinuit personality that I give the details.
Mrs. Blodgett sent Professor James a glove that her sister wore on the
day she wrote the letter, and the lining from her sister's hat. The
original copy of what purported to be the letter—sent to Professor
James by Mr. J. M. Piper, the father-in-law of Mrs. Piper, and after
wards returned to him— I have been unable to obtain. It was either
lost or destroyed. Mrs. Blodgett, howei er, made a substantial copy of
it, and I reproduce her copy of it here, with her remarks. Mr. Piper,
as appears from one of his communications to Professor James, had
many sittings for the purpose of obtaining the letter, and was quite
confident that he had been conversing with the "spirit ''of Hannah
Wild.
Copy of Letter dictated by Phinuit.
1. Dear Sister,—In the bottom of my trunk in the attic with my
clothes I have placed a little money, and some jewels given to me, as you
know, by mother, and given to her by grandfather who has now passed
away. Bessie, I now give to you ; they are all I have. I wish I could have
more. It has grieved mo not a little not to have given the Society something,
but as you know, sister, I am unable to do so. If it he possible I will give
them my presence in spirit. [Sister left no trunk. Never lived in any house
with an attic. Mother never gave her any jewels. Mother's father died in
1835. Mother died in 1880, and gave all her jewels to me. These jewels had
been previously given to mother by myself. Sister left money, and could
have given the Society some had she chosen to do so.]
2. The table-cover which 1 worked one year ago I want you to give
sister Ellen, John's wife. The reason I did not dispose of them before will
he a satisfactory proof of spirit return. My dearest sister, should you ever
marry, as I think you will, take the money and use it as you think best, to
buy a wedding outfit. [She never worked a table-cover. I worked one and
gave her. Brother John died when five years old. There is no one by the
name of Ellen connected with the family. She did think I would marry,
but knew that I had plenty of money to buy an outfit.]
8. Do not dress in mourning for me, for if it be true the spirit can return
I want to see you dressed in light, not black. Not for me now, my dear sister
Bessie. Try to be cheerful and happy through your married life, and when
you hear from me—this for you a copy, "remember sister Hannah is not
dead, only passed out of the body." I will give you a beautiful description
of our life there and of my darling mother if I see her. [Hannah always
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Tmnee. 71
wore black, and often said it would be wicked for me to take it off, for my
child always said, " Mamma, you will always wear black for me," and I have
worn black for twenty years, ever since my child died.]
4. In regard to brother John I forgot to say I worked him a pair of
slippers, and they are in the bottom of that old-fashioned carpet-lwig of mine,
with the check silk handkerchief of grandma which your uncle Ezra brought
from California. The bag hangs in my room, in the closet. [Brother John
died July 10th, 1856, aged five years. Hannah never worked him any
slippers. She did embroider a memorial piece with the date of his death on.
This was framed, and has hung on the wall since I860. There has been no
old carpet-bag in the family since 185ti, when we moved. Sister Hannah
made it into a floor-mat, which I now have on the floor ; it was between the
kitchen and the sitting-room when Hannah died, and had been there for
years. We had a check silk handkerchief that came from England, but not
from yrandma. One grandma died in 1815, the other about I860. Never
was any Ezra connected with the family. My husband was in California from
1868 to 1870. His name is Clutrles.]
5. The wreath of flowers which we pressed and was laid on mother's
casket keep for your children, if you have any. Always remind them it is a
token from Aunt Hannah. I shall be with you, dear sister, if possible. All
the little things I have done in this way is for the purpose of giving you tests,
as I call them. If I can produce a copy of this after I have jwissed out you
will fully understand that I am as conscious in the spirit, and have in my
memory the things concerning this letter of which I now write. [We had no
wreath of flowers on mother's casket. A friend sent a bunch of lilies tied
with white ribbon. These were put iuside mother's casket. A wreath of solid
green English ivy was placed on top of the casket and was buried with the
casket. It was I alone who arranged the wreath.]
6. In my little chest you will find two copies of the Woman's Journal,
not to be disturbed until I write a copy of this. Tell my particular friend,
Margaret Dow, I am sorry I left matters so unsettled in connection with the
paper. But notwithstanding all, I will make a satisfactory explanation if it
is possible for me to return. This thing concerns me here, as you know it
was my life work there. Dear sister, the reason for writing this is to floor
the fact of spirit return, as I know no human being can produce a copy of
this, and no other spirit but my own. Dear sister, you say you want a test
of my spirit return. I shall now copy this, so there will be no mistake. I
may mix things up a little, but I do it as a test for my sister. [We had a
small chest which at the time of Hannah's death was full of jKtpers and tracts
on different subjects, and this contained, among other things, perhaps as
many as thirty copies of the Woman's Journal. The chest was not Hannah's,
and she never called it hers. It was my father's school chest, and we all
called it the " night-gown chest," as it was kept for that purpose until 1874,
when my boy died. Hannah called it the night-gown chest all through her
sickness. No such person as Margaret Dow is known to us.]
The following points may also be noted. They are taken from con
temporary letters [1887] written by Professor James and Mr. J. M.
Piper, and were obtained by the latter from Phinuit.
72 Mr. R. Hodgson.
1. The name of the writer of the letter was Miss Hannah Wild. [True.]
2. " You [Mrs. Blodgett] were married last summer [188<i], after your
sister's death." [My sister died July 28th, 1886. I was married in the
following winter, December 18th, 188<i.]
3. " There was an agreement between you and your sister that her letter
was not to be opened till the 10th of October, 1887." It was also alleged that
this date was mentioned in the letter. [Absolutely wrong.]
4. "Miss Wild has given the following description of her former self :
Eyes, bluish grey. [Correct.] Hair, dark brown sprinkled with grey. [Her
hair was not dark brown but was light brown, and I do not think she had a
grey hair in her head.] Nose, retrousse. [Wrong.] Teeth, peculiar in
appearance, some of them artificial. [Her teeth were very good, and so even
that many asked if they were not false. She had four filled, but not one
artificial.] And also stated that it was her custom to comb her hair straight
back and do it up in a coil behind. [Wrong. She parted her hair in the
middle, combed it down on each side, and wore it in a "French twist"
behind.] My recollection is that she said her age was 48, but I will not be
positive." [Her age was 51.]
In 1888, Mrs. Blodgett made an appointment by letter with Pro
fessor James, to meet him and myself at my office, 5, Boylston Place, on
the afternoon of May 29th, and I arranged an appointment with Mrs.
Piper for the Wednesday morning, May 30th, without, of course, men
tioning any names. I was present at the sitting and took notes, which are
reproduced in the next account. The statements in the round brackets
were made by Mrs. B. during the sitting ; those in square brackets are
explanatory, and have been made by myself since ; the other state
ments were made by Phinuit, as taken down by me during the sitting.
[ sent these notes recently to Mrs. B., requesting her to supplement my
statements by further explanations, and she has given me a fuller
account of the sitting, which appears to me to be in the main accurate,
and has also added detailed notes of explanation. I think it desirable
to give both my own original notes and Mrs. B.'s fuller account,
especially as there was much important matter that I was unable to
take down during the sitting. After the usual beginning, Phinuit
during most of the sitting purported to be repeating the words of
Mrs. B.'s sister.
[From notes of R. H.]
You have a sister here, and did you ever find out about that letter ?
Anna. Hannah. Hannah Wild. She calls you Bessie Blodgett. You
was in an audience and a message was thrown to you. She'll tell you all
about that. How's the Society—the women you know 1 Moses. He's in
the body. I want to tell you about that letter.
[Phinuit gropes on the floor with hand to get a small leather bag, which
Mrs. B. had taken into the room without saying anything about it to Mrs.
Piper. Phinuit takes bag in lap, saying " Mine." Tries to open it, but fails.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 73
Mrs. B. opens it. Mrs. B. says that her sister usually had much difficulty
in opening the bag. ]
[Takes spectacles, hair.] That's mine. Picture of mine here. [Mrs. B.
shook her head. Finally Phinuit produced a photograph of Miss Hannah
Wild, tied up in a small parcel with other objects.] That's the picture.
(Truly I didn't know that picture was there.)
[Me letter, i.e., as Mrs. B. explains, the will of her sister.] This is to
you. That was mine to you. I wrote it and gave it to you. That was my
feelings at the time. I felt there was something that would never divide us.
Wherever you go and whatever you do, don't vary from the instructions
I gave you there.
You remember my dress and my comb. You remember what I told you
to do with my money. I told you personally, on my death-bed. Alice. Our
sister's little girl. She is a namesake. (Shall I give her the money ?) Yes.
(What is this ?) [Giving Mrs. P. a paper in a yellow envelope.] Alice has
written here for the disposition of the money. [Wrong.] This is my little
niece. Mother's here. [Fingering the envelope and paper.] Where's the
doctor? (He's home.) Where's brother? (I don't know.) I'll tell you
about him in a minute. Alice wrote this,—Sister Alice.
Who's Sarah ? That belongs to gentleman over there. Sarah Obs,
Hobs. (Hodge ?) Hodge, Odge. [See below.]
Where's my great big silk handkerchief I (The little niece has got it.
You gave it to her.) Where's my thimble ? (How many brothers have you
got in spirit-life ?) One,—two,—three. Who's Henry ? He's in the spirit,
but not with us—a good way off. He has been here weeks.
Do you remember I told you it would be ringing a church bell ? (City
Hall bell.)
[Asked, concerning the contents of the yellow letter.] Alice wrote to
know about some money and the children. [Wrong.]
Who's William and the doctor ? Brother William. I've found him.
He's all right. Don't worry about him. William's influence is stronger
than mine. He'll come to see you every day and every hour. W7hat do you
think about the lot ! (What lot !) The lot where he was buried.
[Concerning the bag.] That's my own. I give it to you.
[Asked concerning the contents of the sealed letter which she had
written on her death-bed.] Sacred and religious. I remember something
about elevation of myself.
William Henry is better out of the world than he was in it.
(Cousin Elizabeth living ?) She's passed out of the body. [Mrs. B. writes
on June 6th, 1888, that Elizabeth is still living.]
Do you remember the morning you rubbed me ? [Mrs. Blodgett writes :
"Cannot recall any particular morning I rubbid sister. I did it every
morning, and she would put her arms around me and kiss me and say how
good I was.'"]
(Can you tell me what I did with the instrument that the doctor told
me ?) You know what I did. I'm here and I want you to know it. Brother
Henry was a queer genius. (Do you know what your brother Fred died
with i) It was in his stomach. He passed out suddenly, congestion of
organs in the stomach.
74 Mr. R. Hodgson.
You go up in my rooms and sit there. [This, as I remember it, was an
injunction and not a dogmatic statement.] (Can you tell me anything new
I've got in my home ?) Give me the little one. [Meaning the picture.] It's
taken from this and elevated larger. [No reference to change of house, A'C.•
of which Mrs. B. was thinking.]
[Mrs. B. picked something wrapped in silk out of the bag and asked what
it was. Mrs. P. took it in her hand.] That's mother's chain.
Sarah Hudson. [Here Phinuit explained that there was no "g" in the
name, and that Sarah Hodson was a friend of Hannah.] Sarah's in the
body. [Mrs. Blodgett thinks that I made a mistake in noting this, and
that Phinuit said that Sarah was not in the body.]
Mm. Blodgett writes on June 6th, 1888 :—
I write t i inform you that I have just received a letter from Philadelphia
saying the lady, Mrs. Elizabeth Wild, who Mrs. Piper said was dead, is
living, and in much better health than she was two years ago when I heard
from her. Perhaps you will remember sister Hannah said she went to see
her after she left the body. I think I can explain why she said so. The
letter which I brought from sister to have the medium read, and which she
did not read correctly, was first written "Did you go to cousin Elizabeth
after you left the body ? " Sister Alice then thought we had heard of that,
and so wrote the note which you read, and put it into the same envelope.
The m ire I think of our sitting the more strange points I see in it. It
was all true, yet not one word I did not know.
Another point : Sister Hannah was so slow and took so long to tell a
story. Shs would go all around the st;iry before she would touch the point,
and you know that was not the case when we were sitting. Every medium I
sit with says it is because I am so clear and my magnetism is so strong that
they can get better tests.
I almost know it was not sister for this reason. She said I was to go sit
in her room. I did sit th-ira every day until we moved, and have wanted to
bo much sine:? that I feel that it must hava ctntc from me. It is very
wonderful how qaick she got into my magnetism. This is the point I want
to find out—did I enter the medium, or did she enter me, or was there a
third party, and if so, who or what is the third party !
Mrs. Blodgett writes on June 10th, 1888 :—
I have just received a letter saying Sarah Hodson, of Waterbury, Conn.,
is living, and is better than she was two years ago, when last sister Hannah
heard from her.
Mrs. Blodgett writes on July 10th, 1890 :—
I have written from my own notes of sitting as I took them down that
night. Yours are very good. Only, not knowing the parties, you seem to
have misplaced one or two things. About the photo : I am sure I did not
know it was there, as I brought another one, which I showed Professor
James and you the night before. Also, what you call a letter was her will.
She did not give me name of Alice until she took mother's chain in hand.
I cannot remember much about the place I have marked with a cross ;
only I know she was religious, and did say something about it. I know the
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 7*
reason. I tried to get her to tell me her funeral text, but she did not.
[This concerns the passage in my notes, referring to the contents of the
sealed letter. —R.H.]
Please note.—Brother Joseph was travelling. She did not tell me where
he was. Alice's letter I did not know. That was not correct. Sarah Hod-
son. Did not know. That was wrong. [According to my notes taken
during the sitting, Phinuit was right about this.—R.H.] Cousin Elizabeth
also. But what I knew was most all correct, except tho bag. She said that
was hers, and it never was [though Miss Wild had frequently used it].
She took no notice of Maria's scissors in the bag, nor of the letter which
was wrapped in rubber cloth. [Maria was my husband's first wife. Sister
had known her, and also said many times during her sickness, when he went
away, "When I die, I will tell Maria all about him, how good he has been
to me. "]
[Account by Mrs. Blodgett.]
1. " Bessie, Betsie Blodgett, my sister. How glad I am to see you ! I
am Anna, Hannah, your sister, Hannah Wild. How's father and all the
folks ? Oh ! I am so glad to see you ! "
2. "Saw you once before in that audience. Threw a message at you."
Mrs. B. : " Where was it '? "
P. : " Oh, I will tell you all about that."
3. " How's the Society, Lucy Stone and all of them? "
4. " Moses is here. He is in the body. "
5. " Want to tell you about my letter." (Gropes around floor for bag,
which I had taken in and which Mrs. P. had not seen.) " My photo in that
bag." (Could not open the bag. I opened it.) Kept pulling things out of
bag, saying, " Picture of mine in here." Finds picture.
6. Taking spectacles in hand. " These are my old glasses. I have read
many precious truths with them."
7. Taking hair switch. " That's mine. I made it. Hard work, but I
did it."
8. Picks up the will, which she had shaken out of the envelope when she
found picture. "This is to you. I wrote it and gave to you. That was my
feelings at the time I wrote it. You did not think as I did. You made me
feel sad sometimes. But you did take good care of me. I always felt there
was something that would never part us. Do just as I told you to. Don't
vary at all. You remember about my dress ? Where's my comb 1 You
remember about my money ? I told you what to do with that. That ain't
written in this paper. I told you that on my death-bed."
9. " How is Alice ? " Mrs. B. : " What Alice ! " P. : " The little girl
that's a namesake."
10. Takes Alice's letter in yellow envelops. Mrs. B. : " What is in
that?" P. tore it open, saying: "She wants to know what's going to be
done with the money." Mrs. B. : " Shall I give Clara part of the money ? "
P. : " Yes."
11. " Mother is here. Where's doctor ? Where's brother 'I "
12. Takes mother's chain in hand. It was wrapped in silk. I said,
76 Mr. R. Hodgson.
"Hannah, tell me whose and what is that?" Feels of tassel on end of
•chain. P. : " My mother's chain. Alice Wild, my mother, and Alice Wild,
my sister, wrote this letter."
13. "Who's Sarah?" I asked, "Sarah Grover?" "No. Sarah
.Obb—Hodg " At last, after pointing to Mr. Hodgson, said it belonged
to him. Then said it was " Sarah Hodson. "
14. P. : "Where is my big silk handkerchief?" Mrs. B. : "I gave it to
Clara. You told me to." P. : "Where is my thimble?" Mrs. B. : "I
.don't know." P. : "I saw you put it into this bag."
15. Mrs. B. : " Can you tell me, sister, how many brothers you have
in spirit-life ? " P. : " One, two, three."
16. " Who's Henry ? He is in spirit a good way off."
17. Mrs. B. : " Can you tell me where that letter is now that you wrote ? "
P. : " It is at home, in tin box." Mrs. B. : " Can't you tell me more about
it?" P. : "I have told you. It would be like ringing church bells if I
•could come back."
18. " Where's William and doctor ?" Mrs. B. : " Hannah, you tell me
where William is ? " P. : " He is here. I found him." Mrs. B. : "How
long has he been ? " P. : " Weeks. You know all about it. He sticks to
you all the time every day. William wants to know how you like that lot."
Mrs. B. : " What lot i " P. : " You ought to know. You bought it to bury
him in. William is better out of the world than in it. He was a strange
fellow. He don't like that lot. Do you ? " I answered, "No."
19. " Cousin Elizabeth is here." Mrs. B. : " Hannah, did you go to see
her the day you died ?" P. : " I never did die."
20. Mrs. B. : " Do you know what I did with instrument doctor told me
to do ?" P. : " You know what you did."
21. Mrs. B. : "Can you tell me what brother Fred died with?" P. :
*'Oh, sudden ; it was his stomach. Congestion of stomach. "
22. Mrs. B. : " Can you tell me anything new that I have got since you
went away ? " P. took small picture and said, " One from this. A larger
one, elevated."
23. Closed by saying it was church time. She must go, as she never
missed church.
[Notes by Mrs. Blodgett on the foregoing account, 1888.]
1. Correct. Kept slapping me with her hand. Just like sister. My
name was Bessie Barr when sister died.
2. Went to Lake Pleasant four weeks after she died. John Slater,
medium, said, pointing to me in a large audience, " Lady here who wants to
have you know she is hare. Henry, the lame man, is with her. She wants
to know about big silk handkerchief. Says she will tell you what is in that
paper soon."
3. I was down to Boston to attend the Women's Suffrage meetings. Lucy
Stone is the editor of the Woman'a Journal, and wrote a piece about sister
when she died.
4. Don't know any Moses.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. IT
5. Bug contained her glasses, hair, mother's chain, Maria's scissors, which
she did not take out, and her letter, wrapped up in ruhber cloth, which she
did not touch ; also her will, in which was the picture. It must have been in
envelope when I put will in envelope, for I did not know that I had taken
the photo with me ; also a letter which sister Alice had written for Hannah
to tell what was in it. The letter was sealed.
6. Correct.
7. Her own hair, which she had learnt to weave into a switch.
8. Correct,—but I do not know anything about any comb. The paper
was about her books and dresses and all her personal effects except money.
9. Sister Alice (living) had a child named Alice Olivia, and Hannah
always called her Alice. The rest call her Ollie. Hannah did not like it,
as she was named Alica after my mother, and Olivia after my sister's
husband's mother. Hannah took pains to have us all know she did not
want the Alice dropped.
10. I do not know what was written in the letter. Sister Alice wrote
it. But what was said about the contents was not correct.
11. My husband is a doctor, known to Hannah. I have one brother
living, named Joseph, who travels most of the time.
12. The chain was a long chain of mother's. It was cut in two after
mother died. Hannnh had worn one half. The half which I took to the
sitting had not been worn since mother's death, and it had a tassel on the
end, different from the half Hannah had worn. Did not tell who wrote the
letter until she got the name with the chain.
13. Sarah Hodson was a friend of sister's in Waterbury, Conn. I had
thought of her the night before when I met Mr. H., a3 she also came from
London, England.
14. The handkerchief was a large silk one given to sister by a lady who
lived with us for yeara, and it came from England. I did not know I had
put Hannah's thimble into the bag, but found on return to the hotel that it
was there on the bed, with the rest of the things I had taken out of the bag
before starting for the sitting.
15. I asked her how mnny brothers because William had only been dead
since March 27th, same year (1888). Wanted to have her tell me if she had
seen him. " Three " was correct.
16. This Henry was my mother's only male cousin, and she had lived
•with him all her life until she was married. His picture hangs in the house.
He was lame. The same one John Slater had told of before. (See Note 2.)
17. The letter was in the bag wrapped up in rubber cloth. Sister did say
when we put the letter in tin box, " It would be like ringing the City Hall
bell if I can come back."
18. I had bought him a lot in Wood-lawn Cemetery, N.Y. His wife
wanted him buried there. We wanted to take him to our home, and bury
him by mother. Brother was very proud, and we thought that the lot was
not as nice as he would like.
19. When sister died Cousin Elizabeth was sick and dreamt at about tha,
78 Mr. R. Hodgson.
same hour some one was dead at our house, so I asked question. She lives
in Philadelphia. Mrs. P. would not answer the question.
20. Dr. Blodgett had to come and inject morphia into sister every few
hours for the last few days, her pain was so great. He made me do it the
last two days. It almost killed me to do it. I wanted to see if she knew it.
Would not answer my question. I remember I asked a number of questions,
but Mrs. P. would not answer. She kept saying, " I want you to know it
is me, Hannah Wild, Hannah Wild. "
21. Brother Fred dropped dead as soon as he reached the sidewalk after
getting out of a street car in Chicago, 111. Hannah went on there. The
doctor told her it was heart disease.
22. Dr. and I had got married nince Hannah died. Built a new house and
moved into it. Took father to live with us. I wanted her to tell me about
it. She seemed to think I went up and sat in her room, and I could not, as
the house was rented to another family. I did have a large picture made of
sister for father's Christmas present, and it hangs on the wall. Sister
Hannah's cousin made it, and I should have thought she would have said
something about him, as he took a new picture of her every time she went to
•see him.
23. Just like sister, never missed church. It was Decoration Day, and she
always went to the service.
TIia next reports, which have been made by Mrs. Blodgett, with the
assistance of my notes taken during the sitting, and which have been
revised by me, refer to sittings which Mrs. Blodgett requested me to
have on her behalf, for the purpose, if possible, of obtaining the letter
written by her sister. After her sitting in May, Mrs. Blodgett told
Mrs. Piper who she was.
Sitting on August 1st, 1888.
I sent a lock of hair which I had cut from sister's head after her death.
Phinuit thought that it was not Hannah's hair, then that it was, but that
someone had handled it. He then purported to give a copy of the letter :
."It's something about Hannah's early history, that letter is." "At one
time I met a person whom I loved. A circumstance in our affection changed
my whole life. Had it not been for this one thing, I should have been
married and happy. Consequently I went into religious work and did all the
good I could. The circumstance that marred my happiness regarded my
intended marriage. Whoever reads this letter after I am gone will know the
reason why I remained as Hannah Wild. When I am gone I will return and
repeat word for word this letter." "It has been opened, I'm sorry to say."
Phinuit said that if he had a longer piece of hair next sitting he could
give the letter word for word.
[The fact referred Ui in the above dictated letter is correct. It was the
one sorrow of sister's life. But we learn from Professor James that it was
not what sister wrote in her death-bed letter. Phinuit had previously been
told that the letter had been examined for comparison with his first
statements.]
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 79
Sitting on October 3rd, 1888.
I sent Mr. Hodgson a large lock of hair, and also a tidy which sister had
finished a few days before her death, requesting him to ask the name of my
first husband—the middle name he was to be very particular about—also to
ask the name of my only child, who died at the age of ten, whom Hannah
had taken care of for years. Had names been given correctly, it would have
cut off all thought-transference as far as Mr. Hodgson was concerned.
R. H. placing hair and tidy in Mrs. P.'s hands. P. : What is this for ?
R. H. : You must tell. P. : Hannah Wild. Betsy gave you this. I'll tell
you all about this directly. R. H. : What was the name of Mrs. Blodgett's
first husband ? P. : John Henry or Henry John Clifford. [The name
of my first husband was John Rothmall Barr. I know a Mr. John Henry
Clifford, and his daughter tells me that she is almost sure that Hannah
had worked upon the tidy in their house.] R. H. : What was the
name of her boy ? P. : Willie. [The name of my child was John Marion
Barr.] P. : Hannah says, Ask my sister Bessie if she doesn't know what I
said to her last. It's awful hard work to bring back recollections. " I said
this, ' It's hard work to be ill and leave your friends in the body.' "
The letter was said to be as follows :—
" I left a great deal of my work unfinished. Could I have been able to
stay here longer, I should try to be of some benefit to those who were lean
ing more particularly on me. There's Mr. Town has always been very, very
kind to me. I had some talk with him regarding matters in the church which
nobody knows but himself and me, and a sister of his. After I have passed
out and returned to earth to dictate this letter, and it is opened, please give
1,000 [here Phinuit wrote 1,000 on my block-book.—R. H.] dollars for the
benefit of the church.—Hannah Wild." " I told my sister should I come
back and dictate this letter it'll be like the ringing of the village church bell."
[Hannah never said it was hard to be ill ; neither did she think it hard to
die. She left no work unfinished. I sat by her side hour after hour and
wrote down to whom every article she possessed should be given. She made
all her own arrangements for her funeral and selected the verse for her
funeral sermon. No one was leaning on her. My sister had a friend named
Mr. Thomas F , who was kind to her and who had some talk with her on
church matters—Hannah often called him Mr. Tom. She had worked on the
tidy in the presence of this gentleman and his sister. My sister made me
promise not to give any money to the church, as they had built a new one in
a fashionable part of the city and closed the old one where it was needed.
She never said " The village bells," but always the " City Hall bell." See
sitting of May 30th, 1888, Note 17, p. 77. We learn from Professor James
that this was not the substance of Hannah's death-bed letter.]
P : Hannah wants to give you a test to her sister, something that no one
else knows, but she cannot recollect it now. [There was a test between sister
Alice and Hannah, but I do not know what it was. The test has never been
given, and sister Alice has seen the accounts of our attempts to obtain com
munications from Hannah.]
The next attempt to obtain the letter was in 1889, when Mrs. Bhxlgett
and myself had two sittings, of which the following are the reports,
SO Mr. R. Hodgson.
made by Mrs. Blodgett with the assistance of my notes taken during
the sitting, and finally revised by me.
Sitting on May 28th, 1889.
P. : Anna's here. No, Hannah ! Hannah says: "Bessie, you haven't
been feeling very well of late." Mrs. B. : No. What has been the matter ?
[No answer.] P. : What noise did you hear the night before this ? Mrs. B. :
Rapping. [I had heard a rap that seemed to come on the bed the night
before, but could get no answer from it.] P. : Hannah did that. [Here
followed some talk about father.]
Mrs. B. : Can you give us a copy of Hannah's letter this morning ?
P. : Hannah says that she did mention a sum of money to the church. Some
money for the benefit of, for educating the children. Mrs. B. : What-
church ? [I asked what church to see if she would say the old Baptist or the
new Baptist.] P. : Baptist. P. : Where's Aunt Elizabeth ? Mrs. B. : She
ought to be in Philadelphia. You said she had passed out, the last time I
was here. (See sitting of May 30th, 1888, pp. 76, 77, Note 19.) She had not.
P.: [Made some remark about being "confused," and returned to the
"letter."] Also about the doctor, when he should have changed his sur
roundings, if she had been with him, she would be of great assistance to him.
If she had stayed in the body she would have helped the brother. Mrs.
B. : Are the words " My brother" halfway down the second page ? [I got
an impression that they were there.] P. : Yes ; halfway down the second
page. [Some obscurity here in the notes. Either, " Got good memory. I
see the things over again," or, "Not a good memory. I say the same things
over again."—R.H.] [Hannah's memory was very good, and she was the
encyclopedia for the whole family.]
P. : [Fingering a "waist" which Mrs. B. had placed on her lap.] She
wore that when she was sick. She knows that. [The " waist " belonged to
Hannah, who had worn it frequently, but not when she had her last sickness.J
Mrs. B. : [Taking out an envelope containing a lock of hair and some
writing and giving them to P.] Tell me about these. P. : Letter to her.
It ain't written nice. [The letter was written by Hannah's niece to Hannah,
and was written nicely. The lock of hair was from the same person.] P. :
[Fingering the hair.] Do you know who Alice is ? This comes in connection
with Alice. This is the mother's. Mrs. B. : Alice is the mother's name.
P. : That hair is in the spirit. [Wrong.]
Mrs. B. [Putting some imitation birds' eyes into P.'s hands.] Tell me
about these. P. : Eyes. Cats' eyes. Came from Europe. Mrs. B. : Did
they come from France ? P. : No. More German like. [A box of birds'
eyes, from which these were taken, was a prize drawn by father in the first
Paris Exposition for a white crane which he had sent, about 1847 or 1848, I
cannot recall the exact year. Hannah was very proud of them and would
have known them at once. But she had never handled them. We were
only allowed to look at them in a glass case.]
Mrs. B. : [Puts a pin into P.'s hands.] P.: Mother's influence. Got the
little nephew here. Your mother's pin brings the nephew. He had some
trouble with head, throat, and stomach. You gave this to her. [It was my
mother's pin, but had been given to her by my father. My boy died of
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 81
consumption.] P. : She used to have a chain with this. Mrs. B. : Yes. I
gave it to Alice. [A chain was sometimes worn with the pin.]
Mra. B. [Handing P. a glove and stocking belonging to her child, the
nephew referred to, asked : ] Who is there in Heaven that I should love best ?
P. : You ought to know. [Hannah had always kept the glove and stocking
in the family Bible, and would have known them at once.]
Mrs. B. [Puts a round box, from which she took an ear-spoon and eye-
probe, in P.'s hands.] P.: Sister's influence. [Correct.] [Concerning the
ear-spoon.] That's her ear-thing. [Fingering the probe a long time, asked
what it was, and at last said :] That's a probe. [I had hoped to make
Hannah say that she was very deaf—as she was—a fact never given by P.]
P.: [Concerning a chain which I put into Phinuit's hands.] Before she
passed out she broke this chain three or four times and tied it up with
thread. Mother's influence comes with this chain. It was mother's first.
Mother gave it to her. [See sitting of May 30th, 1888, pp. 76, 77, Note 12.
Mother gave her chain to me. I had it cut in half, and gave one portion
to Alice, and the other portion to Hannah. The piece belonging to Alice
I took to my sitting of May 30th, 1888. Alice never wore it, but Phinuit got
the name from it. The other piece was that which I gave here to Phinuit,
and had been worn by Hannah. It had also been broken and tied up with
thread by Hannah in as many as three places ; by myself in two places when
she was sick in bed. It was tied with thread when Phinuit held it.]
Mrs. B. : Ask Hannah who was there when she wrote the letter. P. :
You were there and another lady, not her sister, but your sister. [Some
confusion, but no help by Mrs. B. See below.—R. H.]
P. : Fred's here ; says, How's Joe ? Mrs. B. : Yes ; that's my brother.
[Fred was my dead brother. Joe is my only living brother.] P. : Ella in Joe's,
surroundings. [I found soon after the sitting that brother Fred had a sister-
in-law in Chicago named Helen, who is living and is often called Ella. But
my brother Joe does not know of any such person. I did not think until
recently (1891) of my father's cousin's children, of New York State, in con
nection with this communication. We played together as children, and were
like one family. Their names were Fred, Anna, Joe, and Ella. They were
all known to my brother Fred. Further, this second cousin Fred went to
Chicago about the year 1865, and both father and I think that we heard he
was drowned on the lakes. Anyway, we have not heard from him since about
that time. Joe, Ella, and Anna are living.] [The cousin Fred was not
drowned, as Mrs. B. supposed. She has since ascertained that he is still
living.—R. H.]
P. : Hannah's coming. Aunt Elizabeth is lame ; had a fall ; got
rheumatism ; sore eyes. [Every detail incorrect, as I have since learned.]
P. : She (Hannah) used to write for the papers, and she said in her letter
that she wanted the paper to be kept up as well as the church matters.
[Hannah wrote many letters to Lucy Stone on Woman Suffrage. Some were
printed in the Woman's Journal. Hannah did say to me that I was to keep
up that journal, but I cannot recall that she asked me to keep up any
church matters.]
P. : She wrote the letter on a stand. You and sister Alice were
there. She sat in a chair with big arms to it. Leant back tired. It'll
o
82 Mr. R. Hodgson.
be like ringing the old church bell. Mrs. B. : The City Hall bell. P. : Yes,
that's it. [The account given of the writing of the letter and the persons
present is correct.]
P.: Much in the letter about the doctor. She speaks about the piece
of land in the letter, and that's in connection with the doctor also.
And it's four pages. P.S.—And this is all settled satisfactory to me. Sister
Hannah. About the church, land, doctor, paper, brother, and helping
the doctor in change of surroundings. [My husband had bought a new piece
of land since Hannah's death, and had built a new house and moved into it.
But I cannot see how Hannah could have helped him. I think she would
have helped brother if she had lived.] [We learn from Professor James that
the above details are not the substance of Hannah's death-bed letter.]
Sitting on May 29th, 1889.
r. : Are you well ? Mrs. B. : No. I want a medical examination. P. :
No real organic disease ; little weakness in kidney. Sometimes trouble in
head. Mrs. B. : What is the cause of the head trouble ? P. : That's because
you're a medium. R. H. : You must be careful, Doctor, as Mrs. Blodgett's
husband is a medical man. P. : You clear out. I won't do anything while
you're here. [R. H. leaves the room.] Mrs. B. : [Phinuit made a thorough
examination. Said I was perfect. This is not correct.] [R. H. recalled.]
P. : Light complexioned person, grey hair, aquiline nose, full eye, square
face, moustache, don't see any beard, much to do with new building. Marie
in surroundings. [Maria was the name of my husband's first wife. Tho
description does not answer to my husband. I do not know anyone who
corresponds to it.] P. : Esther also. [I do not know an Esther, nor, as far
as I can ascertain, did Maria. My husband had an aunt of that name, who
died a long time ago.] Mrs. B. : Whom does Maria wish to talk to ? P. :
Given name is Charles, and he's across the country. [Charles is my husband's
first name, and Maria called him Charles. He was in Holyoke, where we
live.]
* ♦ * * *
Mrs. B. : Is Hannah Wild here to-day ? P. : No. R. H. : Tell her she
did not give the letter correctly. P. : How do you know ? Have you read
it? R. H. : No. James says so. [P. was angry, and said that James had
better " sharpen up his memory," &c, and finally said he would go and get
Hannah.] [Mrs. P. came out of trance, and after a short interval became
entranced again.]
P. : Miss Davis—Hannah wants you to go and see her and say
she has a message for her. Will give it later on. [I do not know a Miss
Davis. I know a Mrs. Davis, who was a widow when Hannah died. Hannah
knew her, but was never in her house.] Mrs. B. : What was the maiden name
of mother, and where was she born ? P. : You ought to know as well as
Hannah. [Hannah knew mother's maiden name. She was a perfect family
encyclopedia.] P. : There's something in [the letter] about mother.
Mrs. B. : What happened to Hannah that Alice only knew ? P. : It
happened twice, and if it happened the third time Hannah would pass out.
Mrs. B. : Did it happen the third time ? P. : Yes. It was about mother.
^Correct as far as I know. Sister Alice will not tell what it was, as she
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 83
promised Hannah not to. It was about mother. Sister cannot say whether
it happened three times or not, as she was not present at the death of Hannah,
but I have notes of every word Hannah spoke that day.] Mrs. B. : Whom
did you see just before you passed out ? P. : Mother. [She said she saw
Mary, but not mother.] P. : I say in the letter to my sisters Alice and
Bessie,—If she could see her mother in spirit she would come back and tell
you of her experience with her mother, also of any other friends that I may
meet. I mention my brother also, the church, your happiness with the
doctor, and the surroundings. [Mixture of pronouns due to Phinuit.—R. H.]
P. : Mr. "E." is here. He says, "What is this all about?" R. H. :
Tell him. P. : He says you must always send Phinuit away from the medium
to ask and then come straight back to the medium and tell you. [This is the
device that I suggested and carried out long before.—R. H] [The results of
this sitting were submitted to Professor James. He replied : "All this is not
to the point. The sister's letter, as I remember it, contained none of these
statements."]
Athkndum. (By B. H.)
On May 27th, 1891, Dr. Blodgett had a sitting with Mrs. Piper. Mrs.
Blodgett and myself accompanied him, but Mrs. Blodgett remained at first in
the adjoining room. Phinuit, however (on behalf of "Bessie's father"),
insisted upon seeing Mrs. Blodgett, and then shortly afterwards refused to
proceed unless Dr. Blodgett and myself left the room. Hannah purported to
be present. In the last part of the sitting Phinuit talked with Dr. Blodgett
alone. My notes are too fragmentary to be of any value, but the main point
is that no further attempt was made by Phinuit to give the letter, and
apparently not the slightest reference was made to it by either Phinuit or
any of the sitters. No other information was given that inclined Mrs. Blod
gett at all to bslieve that her sister was actually "communicating." At a
sitting on May 28th, 1891, Phinuit's first statement (Mrs. Piper entranced at
12.10 p.m.) was : " Been with Bessie. She's been writing, a few minutes
ago." On June 1st Mrs. Blodgett writes :—
" Phinuit was correct. I was writing my notes out of book on different
papers."
Two days later (June 3rd) Mrs. Blodgett sent me a letter to Phinuit,
which I read at the beginning of a sitting on June 15th. This occasioned
the following statement from Phinuit, which had nothing to do with the
letter :—
" She's been reading a funny book. A life of somebody. She called on
an old friend of Hannah's, somebody I told her to go and see. Hannah told
her. Mrs. B. has a friend named Severance."
Mrs. Blodgett writes on June 17th :—
" Really he [Phinuit] is doing wonderfully well as far as thought-trans
ference goes, but positive proof that it is not Hannah. Saturday night
[June 13th] I gave a talk to the Young Women's Rooms about Helen Gar
dener's new book, Is this your Son, my Lord? 14th. I did not go to see the
friend in body, but I know my mind went, and I wrote him the letter to
ask him what Phinuit told me to do when there. You will recall he said, I
G 2
(s-t Mr. R. Hodgson.
must go and see Mr. L and tell him I was sorry I had slighted him.
You will see by letter enclosed [dated and postmarked June 15th, and
referring to Mrs. B.'s letter of June 14th.—R. H.] Mr .L did not see me
in the Senate. That was my mind. Hannah never saw Mr. L , nor, to
my knowledge, ever heard me speak of him. He was my friend in W .
This is quite a point. I also know Hannah never heard of 'Severance.' I
wrote him three letters, just before we were married, as doctor had seen him
and bought the enclosed picture at Onset. I said on the 14th how I would
love to write him again now we were married and see if he would know it,
or if Maria would."
11. 0. F. Wadsworth, M.D., June 15th, 1888.
[Appointment made by R. H. No name given.]
[Notes made by R. H. during sitting.]
This sitting was a failure, though one or two incidents suggested to me
that the "conditions" of success were present had Phinuit received any
assurance at the beginning that he was not confused. Thus there seemed to
be an approximation to the sitter's name in the first specific statement made
by Phinuit: "Got a lady here calling Watson-." And later on another
attempt was made— Watson. But this may have been a mere coincidence,
as altogether more than twenty statements and names were offered, almost
all of which were wrong.
12. Mrs. P. July Uth, 1888.
[Appointments made by R. H. No name given.]
Mrs. P. had a sitting a few weeks previously, at which I was not present,
and no written account of it was made at the time. Much of what was said
by Phinuit at this first sitting appeared to Mrs. P. to be vague and
irrelevant, but her father-in-law was described and alleged to be very ill,
as was the case. There was an approximation made to the name P., which
was not, however, correctly given. Among other names mentioned, to
which Mrs. P. could attach no special significance, the name Sarah was
given and said to be that of her mother, and it was stated that she died from
a cancer. This was true, but Mrs. P. does not attribute much importance
to this, as she afterwards heard that a similar statement was made to another
sitter, to whom it did not apply.
I took notes during the sitting of July 11th, at which the father-in-law,
in the meantime deceased, was represented as appearing. His surname was
correctly given. So also was the surname of the sitter's mother, but the
sitter is not sure that she did not mention her mother's name at the previous
sitting. In addition, eight Christian names were given, of which five (Sarah,
Fanny, Telly, Helen, Frank) were closely connected with the sitter. The
other three names were also approximations. John and Thornahan were
the attempts to get the name of the father-in-law, Jonathan ; a lady relative
was mentioned as having a nickname Tete, and Pete would have been
correct ; one of the sitter's five brothers is named Edgar, and Phinuit spoke
of an "Ed—something." No other names were given by Phinuit. Several
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 85
irrelevant and incorrect statements, however, were made, and a prophecy
that the sitter was going to California the next year was not fulfilled. In
addition, the sitter made experiments with two locks of hair.
1. Had great deal of sickness—disease. Person has passed out of the body.
Did this one have a cancer ? He had disease in stomach. Don't you
remember the sighs he used to make ? You've got them mixed. [All wrong.
The hair of a living person,—a lady.]
2. This is lady's influence. She thought everything of you. I want to say
there's a misunderstanding all round in this influence. Weakness across
chest and right round the heart. [All wrong. The hair of my father-in-law,
Mr. J. P., deceased.]
13. Mr. John F. Brown. June and October, 1888.
The following accounts are by Mr. John F. Brown, a member of our
Society. Mr. Brown writes to me on February 20th, 1891, that he is
fully convinced that Mrs. Piper's dealings with him have been false and
fraudulent throughout. His opinion, I believe, is that Mrs. Piper pre
tends to go into trance, proceeds by guesswork, questioning, ,fec, and
adds such information as she has been able to obtain by secret inquiry
beforehand concerning the sitters. I understand that he attributes
importance to the details of all his visits to Mrs. Piper, and his
accounts are therefore given in full.
Sitting with Mrs. Piper, June 11th, 1888. 9.30 a.m.
The bell was answered by a voice through the speaking-tube. I after
ward recognised the voice as Mrs. Piper's. I said I had an appointment and
was told to come up. Mrs. Piper met me at the door upstairs.
Without much delay she took me into the room adjoining, seated me in a
chair, and after locking the door between the rooms and closing the shutters
sat down in a rocking-chair in front of me. Said she supposed Mr. Hodgson
had told me how to talk to her when in the trance, about asking questions
and answering what the Doctor said. I replied, " Yes, I understand I can
ask any questions I wish to." This did not satisfy her ; said I should admit
what the Doctor told me, if it was true ; that I should talk freely, and answer
all his questions ; that by so doing much better results would be obtained.
Having settled this matter, which she seemed to consider of the greatest
importance, she speedily went into the trance.
When fully under control, some Frenchy salutations were given and then
the Doctor said, " Hallo ! John, I'm pretty well. How are you ?" I said I
was well also and was pleased to make his acquaintance. Soon he spoke my
last name, getting it piecemeal and pronouncing it Bur-oun. Had some diffi
culty with the name, said it over a number of times and asked me two or
three times what I called it. I said I was satisfied with what he called it and
did not help him out. Then he gave my middle name (Fenner), but did not get
it quite right, gotin a d—Fedner, or something like that, and seemed to think
it was not quite right and asked me what it was. He kept saying it over,
trying to get it just right, and kept asking me what I called it. I said, " Let
it go that way, that's near enough." But he persisted, and finally, thinking
86 Mr. R. Hodgson.
that ho knew already, for he came as near it as he possibly could and miss,
I said, " It is Fenner." "Yes, yes," he replied, " Fenner, that's it, Fenner."
Then he spoke about my children, said I had two pretty children. I asked if
they were boys or girls. He said one was a boy, the older one ; the younger
he seemed to be in doubt about, was inclined to think it was a girl—asked
me which it was. I said that was for him to tell. He seemed a little pro
voked, and said he couldn't tell everything and that I must answer his
questions. He asked me two or three times, and finally said in a very decided
maimer that he wouldn't say another word until I answered the question. I
thought for a moment that the sitting was at an end and also my acquaintance
with Dr. Phinuit. I wasted no words, however, and showed no irritation,
but very quietly told him to tell mo what he could and let the rest go. By
this time he had about concluded (supposing he did not already know, and I
have no special reason for thinking that he did) that the child was a boy, said
it looked like a girl (he had already spoken of it as a baby) but that it might
be a boy.
There was something, however, that looked very much like finessing. I
rode to Boston on my wheel, wearing long stockings and knee breeches.
Mrs. Piper said she took it I dissipated on the bicycle. I said. Yes, I had
been riding, and some remarks were made about bicycle riding. Dr. Phinuit
took hold of my breeches at the knee and asked what I wore those for. I
said, "I must wear something." "Yes, but what for you wear those?"
" They look pretty, don't they 1" " Oh, I am not joking, I am in earnest.
Why don't you wear the long ones ? " Then I tried to make him tell, but he
would not and said no more about it. The Doctor did not give up trying
pump me, but, having resolved beforehand to resist all such attempts as
irregular and uncalled for, his efforts were in vain. At one time he said 1
must be frank and not try to mislead him, that I could put him on the wrong
track if I wished. I assured him I would not be guilty of anything of that
kind, and I certainly was not.
Again, he declared he was going to thrash me. I laughed and said it
took considerable of a man to do that. He said he could do it. I asked
why he proposed to thrash mo. Instantly came the answer, sharp and
decided, " Don't you say Ugh to me any more ; you say, Yes, sir." Then
he said he was coming to see me at my house. I told him to come along,
I should be pleased to see him, and I wouldn't thrash him either, I didn't
thrash spirits. He said I was wise not to try it.
He gave the name Edward for the older child, which is altogether wrong.
The name of the younger he did not give. The medium put her hand on
her chest, rubbing it up and down, and Phinuit said there was or had been
something the matter with one of the children. I asked which one. Said
he thought it was the younger, that ho would get all over it and that they
would both grow up and be strong and healthy. Said they were fine
children and things of that sort. I asked if there were any more. He
said, No. Would there be any more ? Said he seemed to see another—
a girl—but that had not come yet.
By-and-bye he spoke the name Fannie. I said, " Who is Fannie ? " At
first he couldn't tell, but finally said it was Edward's mother. He called mo
a funny fellow, but did not explain in what way, and I couldn't get it out of
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 87
him. " Oh, what a fine dog ! " Said it was mine, and then asked me if it was
mine. I didn't say whether I ever owned a dog or not. Said dogs liked me.
I asked if folks liked me as well as dogs. He didn't answer the question very
directly, but said I didn't make very many intimate friends, but I was a good
man. Spoke of the girls I had been intimate with and said I had had a good
many " escapades. " Gave the names of two girls that I had thought a great
deal of. One was Louie, who was very congenial. We were very fond of each
other. I asked why I did not marry Louie. The answer was, " Because
you were crazy, cranky." Felt of the top of my head and said I had lost a
good deal of hair, but that he could have saved it seven or eight years ago.
I asked how, and he mentioned some remedy which I do not remember, and
said that would stop it from coming out any more. Felt of my fingers and
asked if I did not come near losing one some years ago. Felt of the bones
and joints as if trying to make out which finger it was. Asked me which it
was and if I had not had some such injury. I said merely that I had had
some injury to my fingers, and he went no further. Said that years ago I
had been bathing with a friend who came near being drowned ; tried to give
the person's name and asked me what it was. I said I used to go bathing
sometimes and asked the Doctor the name of the person to whom he referred.
Then he gave the name of a white-haired gentleman who knew me, and said
this gentleman knew the name of the friend who came near drowning.
Several other names were given. I did not recogmse any such persons, but
did not say whether I did or not. He told me I was going to make a change
in business within four months. I asked what sort of a change it would be,
but could not find out. When the opportunity presented itself, I was to
take it without hesitation—the change would be greatly to my advantage.
Said I had been making some investments that had turned out well. The
Doctor questioned me closely about this, but nothing further was elicited.
After a time the Doctor said he was going away, but if I had any questions
to ask I could do so. I said he had told me enough for once and asked if he
would come and see me again. Yes, he would. I asked if he would see my
friends in the spirit, talk with them and tell me all about myself and family
when I came again. Yes, he would. " Au revoir." " Good-bye," and the
medium twisted, groaned and grated her teeth just as she did when going
into the trance, then stared about wildly and appeared to be coming to her
self. She seemed surprised to see me and said, " Are you here '! I didn't
know you were here." She acted bewildered for a moment and in answer to
my question said she felt dizzy. She asked if the sitting had been satis
factory. I replied that she had told me a good many things, but that I had
nothing with which to compare it, never having sat before with the same
kind of medium. Said she thought it very desirable for sitters to have seen
other mediums, and that she would like to know if there wasn't someone
else who could do "this" and relieve her.
When in the trance Mrs. Piper talked in a gruff, masculine voice, very
different from her own, and the Doctor's identity was well sustained
throughout. Everything connected with the trance seemed very natural,
excepting her surprise and bewilderment when coming out. It seemed to
me that there was some assumption about this, but it may have been just as
genuine as the rest.
88 Mr. M. Hodgson.
Stcoiul call on Mrs. Piper, June 13th, 1888. 9.30 a.m.
I was a few minutes late, having let the car I wanted pass by and then
having to wait a long time for another. I touched the electric knob and a
voice came through the speaking tube. The voice I recognised immediately
as Mrs. Piper's. I said : "I have another appointment with you, and will
come up." Hearing nothing more, I went upstairs, and waited at the door.
No one came, and I was thinking of knocking when the door opened and the
Swedish servant-girl let me in. It was just ten minutes past the appointed
time when I sat down in the parlour. After waiting five minutes or more
Mrs. Piper came in. I said " Good morning," and she asked if I had come
for a sitting for that hour. I said I had. She did not speak as though I had
already told her I had come for a sitting, but acted as though she would have
me think she had had no previous conversation with me that day, and that it
was the girl who had answered my call. She seemed to be in no hurry what
ever, and I got the idea that she had no engagement for the hour following.
I could hear a noise as of water falling upon tin. She called my attention
to it after she had been in the room a few minutes and said a man was
coming to fix the faucet in the bathroom, that the water had been running all
the morning and made her nervous, as she feared an overflow. Said she
hoped the man would not disturb us. She went out to look at the running
water, saying she was afraid it would overflow, and it was 9.50 when we went
into the seance-room. She did not get on well, the noise troubled her, said
it made her nervous. She went out again, but apparently did nothing to
deaden the sound, though a sponge or cloth would have stopped it. The
noise of washing dishes also disturbed her, and she left the room again to
speak to the girl and see that the door into the kitchen was closed.
By this time it must have been about ten o'clock. She now spoke for the
first time of another sitter who was coming at 10.30, a business man who
couldn't afford to lose any time. She said she would leave a note for him ; that
she sometimes had to do this when the previous sitter was late, as though
trying to lay the blame on me. She put a note on the sofa in the parlour
and came back and tried again, but without success. Then she asked me if I
would wait and let her try first with the gentleman who was coming, saying
if she could succeed with him she probably could with me afterwards. I
agreed to this, and we went into the parlour, the note being removed. She
didn't stop in the parlour, but went off through the hall and talked with the
girl, leaving the hall door open. At first I could not hear what was said, then
Mrs. Piper spoke up quite loudly, so I could hear every word. It's some
thing about the faucet. The leather is worn or something like that. Soon
the gentleman came, and she explained the situation and took him into the
seance-room, leaving me in the parlour. She came back and said if she
succeeded in going into the trance she would ask Phinuit what the trouble
was before, if it was anything about me, though she was sure that was not it.
She had no better success than before and soon gave it up, the gentleman
leaving immediately. She asked if I wished to make another engagement.
1 said I could not then, and went away.
Mr. Brown writes on June 20th, 1888 :—
I wrote to my wife, who is away (without giving any details of my
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance.
sittings), and asked her to send me a statement of what Mrs. Piper told her
about ourselves and the boys, in order to compare it with what I got. Ill
reply she sends me a full account of her sitting, which she says was already
nearly written. This I include also. [I do not know whether I received this
or not, but I cannot find it among my documents.—R. H.]
In regard to Mrs. Piper, I have the secret of her power. That is, I have
a good deal of confidence that such is the case, and am anxious to have my
theory tested in such a manner as to be either proved true or shown to be
false. I think she proceeds by guesswork, in which she is materially assisted
by the conversation of the sitters, this conversation being to a considerable
extent guided and controlled by herself. So far as pure guesswork goes, do
not think she shows any great skill, that there are others who can do this
much more scientifically and successfully, and that her skill lies chiefly in
getting the help of the sitter, who points out the way she is to travel in a
maimer analogous to that in which Bishop's subjects lead him to the hidden
articles.
When Mrs. Brown told me about her sitting I resolved that when I
sat the Doctor should get no information from me as to the truth or
falsity of what he told me. This I pretty consistently carried out, though I
asked many questions and was as frank and open as possible. Now, what
was the result ? Leaving out of account such statements as these : that dogs
liked me, that I don't make as many intimate friends as some, but am a
good fellow all the same, and that one of my boys has had a bad cold, she
told me absolutely nothing that is true except the following facts : My name
in full, John Fenner Brown ; my wife's first name, Fannie ; that we have
two children, the elder being a boy.
You will remember that when we were in your room, May 9th (it is
referred to in Mrs. B.'s report), Mrs. Piper came in. The sitting with
Mrs. Brown had just taken place. Mrs. Piper would naturally guess who I
was, and the fact of finding us there would make her expect a call from me
and be on the look out for it. Referring to Mrs. B.'s report, we find Dr.
Phinuit's knowledge at the conclusion of this sitting, and in relation to the
above-mentioned facts, to be as follows : My name in full, John Fenner
Brown ; my wife's first name Fannie ; that we have two boys ; the name of
the younger—the correspondence is startling.
What I wrote to my wife was that I had had a sitting with Mrs. Piper
and that she had told me nothing except what she already knew or could
guess. This can be verified, for Mrs. B. will have the letter. I also said I
was going to give the medium a surprise party the following morning (June
12th), and that I would not be received with open arms. It certainly turned
out as I anticipated. Quelling all suspicion about the leaky faucet, the fact
remains that Mrs. Piper wanted to get rid of me. She showed it just as
plainly as did the slate-writer. In fact, her manner tallied exactly with
that of the other mediums I have met. They all do fairly well for me at first
(doesn't this go to show that there is no trouble with me ?) and then their
powers are on the wane. ,
Sitting with Mrs. Piper, October 20th, 1888.
I rang the bell at 9.25. Mrs. Piper, I am quite sure, answered the call.
90 Mr. R. Hodgson.
I said, " I had an appointment foi'9.30," and was told to come up. A girl
met me at the door upstairs. Mrs. P. came in almost immediately. Her
greeting was by no means cordial, and she seemed to be ill at ease, though
trying hard, and with pretty good success, to conceal her embarrassment.
She asked if Mr. Hodgson made the appointment for me, and if 1 had not
had one sitting and failed a second time owing to her nervousness. I
answered " Yes " to these questions, which were evidently not asked for the
purpose of getting information.
Soon she commenced talking about people who mistrusted her, who.
had no faith in the manifestations. Said they made her nervous, and she
wished they wouldn't come ; that she was foolish to mind it so, but she
couldn't help it, she was so very sensitive. She talked in this strain for some
time, there being nothing personal in her remarks, except by inference. At
length I said: "You don't think I mistrust you, do you?" "Yes," she
replied, " I know you do." Then she spoke freely, said I had no faith in her
or the manifestations, and that I thought she did not wish to sit for me. She
spoke of the leaking faucet mentioned in my last report. Said that when she
told me of it I showed by my looks that I did not believe it. I said I did
not doubt the faucet leaked. " Yes," she replied, "but you thought it was
a pretext to get rid of you." I could not deny this, nor would it have been
of any use to have done so, for she evidently knew how I felt about it. She
said it was a misfortune to be a medium, and spoke in general terms of the
insults to which she had been subjected. It did not occur to me to ask if
she thought I had misused her in any way, but I did ask if she thought
I had attempted to mislead Dr. Phinuit. She did not give a direct
answer, but appeared to think that perhaps I had done so. I assured
her that such was not the case, and that I did not think there was anything
in my attitude that ought to prevent a satisfactory sitting. Ever since she
first spoke of people who mistrusted her she had been in a very nervous and
excited condition. But sho gradually became calmer. She said she was
afraid I would not like to have her talk so freely, but she was so very sensi
tive she couldn't stand it, and must speak out to relieve herself. I told her
that was right, she couldn't talk any too freely to suit me.
About 9.55 she announced that she was ready, acting as though she hated
to sit, but as though for some reason, not altogether apjHtrent, she must do
so, and was resigned to the inevitable. She took my hands pretty soon after
wo were seated, and almost immediately I became aware that she was going
into the trance. Her nervousness seemed to be all gone, and it took but a
very short time.
Dr. Phinuit called me by name, John, and said he had talked with my
friends who had passed over and had learned a good deal about me. Three
or four of my friends were present— a grandfather, a brother, and an uncle.
The name Edward was given (see account of first sitting) and I was asked if
that was the name of the brother. I said, Not exactly. This was as near as
the Doctor could get it, and he asked me what the name was. I said, Edgar.
Then Phinuit saw an elderly man with " fhese " (stroking my beard) on his
face. He had trouble with his stomach, had dyspepsia. [True.] I asked
who he was. P. : My father. B. : Living or dead ? P. : Living. B. : What
is his middle name ? The Doctor could not tell. I was told to ask questions
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 91
if I wished to, and I said : ' ' Tell me about my brothers and sisters, if I
have any," and intimating more by my tones than by what was said, that 1
had brothers but no sisters. (This I did inadvertently. Throughout the
sitting I answered all the Doctor's questions and asked a good many myself,
but was in general careful not to make my questions leading, or no more so
than could be helped.) Phinuit laughed and said he wasn't going to tell me
about what I hadn't, but about what I had. And I said, "Tell me about my
brothers, then." He replied that there were five of us, four living and one
dead, which is correct. I had already in effect admitted that I had brothers
and a brother not living, but, so far as I am aware, this is all that could be
gathered from what I had said.
The medium rubbed her hands over mine, felt of my fingers, and then the
Doctor said he saw wheels, wheels all over me. I waited a moment to see
what was coming, but as usual during this sitting nothing came until I asked
for it. I said, " What kind of wheels ? " And then, in a moment : " Largo
ones or small ones ? " The answer was : " Oh, big ones, great big ones, with
crooked things in them. What you call them ? Spokes?" I asked what they
were used for. The Doctor said for machinery, but didn't seem to know for
what kind of machinery until I asked the direct question, and then he said,
hesitatingly at first, then with confidence, "Steam engines." Then he saw an
office where writing was being done ; the elderly man was there and I was
there. Business was to be good for the next year and I need not worry about
that account that had been troubling me—that would come out all right. The
names Fannie and Mira (Meera) (see Mrs. B.'s report of her sitting) were
given. Fannie was the mother of my boys. There was some difficulty in
finding out who Mira was, and it was finally given up after some apparent
guesses had been made.
I was told to ask questions if I wished, and I said, "Who is Horace
Brown?" The answer came immediately, "He is your uncle"—the uncle
who was there, and whose presence I had forgotten till thus reminded of it.
I said, " How about his son?" What followed I consider quite interesting
and remarkable, though by no means a good test of the alleged supernormal
power. So far as I am aware the medium knew nothing about Horace Brown
or his son, certainly they had never been mentioned by me. My question
would afford a professional guesser the opportunity to get in some pretty
good work, but there was no appearance of guesswork. Nothing was said to
draw me out in the slightest degree—unless it was to make me ask questions.
The replies were not given in a hesitating and half-questioning tone, so that
I could deny or correct, or the speaker readily change them if occasion
required ; they were plumped out in the most positive and decided manner,
and, so far as my knowledge extends, with but one partial exception, were
exactly right.
My List question was answered like this : "Oh, he's alive." Then, without
anything being said by me, it was added that he left home some time ago.
Afterwards it was said a good many years ago, though this may have come
from me; that he had been about a good deal and had been at sea. This also
(and what follows, unless otherwise stated) without help from me. That when
he left home he was single, but now was married and living in Southern
California. I asked why he left home. Because he was uneasy and of a
92 Mr. R. Hodgson.
roving disposition. Why didn't he write to his folks ? There was no
particular reason ; it never occurred to him to do so. Phinuit said he
couldn't tell just where in Southern California he was (this without
questioning by me), but that he could find out. I told him to do so. Said
he couldn't then, I would have to come again for that. (Finessing ?) He
.gave the name of the son as Charles (in reply to my question) and said I
would hear from him soon, within a year, I think. The best way to get a
good sitting, Phinuit said, was to have him talk with my departed friends
and then see me within three or four days.
There was nothing further of interest, nor which I can recall. Phinuit
said if I had anything more to ask about I must do it soon, but I told him
there was nothing more, bade him good-bye, and he took his departure.
When the medium was coming to, she saw snakes on my hands and kindly
pulled them off. She complained of being pricked on the hand, said, "Don't
prick me so," or something like that, and after she was entirely herself asked
me two or three times if I had pricked her. I assured her that I had not.
She asked if I got anything, and I told her she did very well, much better
than she did the first thus. This seemed to please her greatly. As I was
going out, I said, "You have done so well to-day, if I should come again, you
wouldn't feel towards me as you have this time, would you ? " She shrugged
her shoulders, said, "I don't know," and mumbled something further which I
could not catch.
John F. Brown.
14. Mr. "Q." December 29th, 1888.
This sitting was a failure. At the close of it Phinuit said that he thought
Tie had been getting the influence of the previous sitter, and was anxious to
try another sitting. We arranged for another sitting for the following day,
but Mrs. Piper's illness then prevented our having it, and Mr. "Q." was
unable to stay in Boston any longer. Mr. " Q.' writes on September 11th,
1890.— "I return the notes of the conversation with Mrs. Piper. At the
time of the sitting my general impression was unfavourable ; the answers,
at any rate, were irrelevant and inaccurate in everything except as to those
which might have been inferences from my personal appearance."
15. Mr. Robertson James. March 6th, 1889.
5, Boylston-place, March 6th, 1889. 1p.m.
Mr. Robertson James has just called here on return from a sitting with
Mrs. P., during which he was informed by Mrs. P.—entranced—that "Aunt
Kate " had died about 2 or 2.30 in the morning. Aunt Kate was also
referred to as Mrs. Walsh.
Mre. Walsh has been ill for some time and has been expected during the
last few days to die at any hour. This is written before any despatch has
been received informing of the death, in presence of the following :—
Richard Hodgson.
Wm. James.
Robertson James.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance.
On reaching home an hour later I found a telegram as follows :—" Aunt
Kate passed away a few minutes after midnight. —E. B. Walsh."
(Signed) Wm. James.
Mrs. William James, who! accompanied Mr. Robertson James to the
sitting on March 6th, writes as follows :—
18, Garden-street, Cambridge, March 28</i, 1889.
Concerning the sitting mentioned above on March Gth, I may add that
the " control " said, when mentioning that Aunt Kate had died, that I
would find " a letter or telegram " when I got home, saying she was gone.
Alice H. James.
July, 1890.
It may be worth while to add that early at this sitting I inquired, " How
is Aunt Kate?" The reply was, " She is poorly. " This reply disappointed
me, from its baldness. Nothing more was said about Aunt Kate till towards
the close of the sitting, when I again said, ' ' Can you tell me nothing more
about Aunt Kate ? " The medium suddenly threw back her head and said
in a startled way, " Why, Aunt Kate's here. All around me I hear voices
saying, 'Aunt Kate has come.'" Then followed the announcement that
she had died very early that morning, and on being pressed to give the time,,
shortly after two was named.
A. H. J.
16. R. Hodgson. November 7th, 1889.
[From a letter written to Professor W. James on the day of the sitting.]
Mrs. D. and I had sitting to-day at Arlington Heights, and the usurpa
tion by " Kate Walsh " was extraordinary. She (Mrs. Piper) had got hold
of my hands, and I had to make a few fragmentary notes afterwards of the
remarks, themselves fragmentary, which she made. The personality seemed
very intense, and spoke in effortful whispers.
" William—William—God bless you." (Who are you?) — "Kate-
Walsh "—(I know you.) " Help me—help me— " [Taking my right hand
with her right, and passing it to her left and making me take hold of her
left hand.] " That hand's dead—dead—this one's alive " [i.e., the right]—
" help me." The left hand appeared to be at a decidedly lower temperature
than the right. It was cooler than either of my hands, while the right hand'
was warmer than either of my hands.
" I'm alive—I'm alive—Albert's coming over soon. He can't stay—poor
boy—poor boy—Albert—Albert—Alfred—Albert—I know you—Alice—
Alice—William—Alice —" (Yes, I know. I'll tell them. You remember
me. I stayed with you in New York.) " Yes—I know. But, oh, I can't
remember. I'm so cold—I'm so cold. Oh, help me—help me "—[making
tremulous movements of hands]. (I know. I'll tell them. You remember
me; my name's Hodgson.) "Yes. Mr. Hudgson. Where are the girls?
Yes. You had fish for breakfast on the second day, didn't you ? " (I don't
remember very well.) "And the tea—who was it spilt the cup of tea ? Was
it you or William ? " [I think I remember something about the tea, but not
very clearly.] " You were in the corner room—bedroom—upstairs. Were
94 Mr. R. Hodgson.
you cold ? Then there was some blancmange—you didn't like that. No.
It was cream—Bavarian cream. Albert—poor boy ; he's coming soon.
William "—[something about arranging the property]. " William—God
bless him."
The above was much less than was really said. But that was the sort of
thing, and nothing d la mode Phinuit at all. It was the most strikingly
personal thing I have seen. I recollect having fish for some meal, and recall
that some remarks were made about it at the time. I recall very clearly that
Mrs. Walsh made tea more than once for my special benefit, and I seem to
remember something about the spilling of a cup of tea, but cannot be sure.
I don't know whether my room was called corner or not. It was an end
room, but was in front of the house. There was a little stumbling over the
name, which appeared to be Albert. I don't recall anything about the
blancmange or cream stuff, but I have little taste for that kind of dish.
Concerning sitting of November 7th and "Kate Walsh" Control.
Professor James says, in letter of November 10th, 1889 :—.
"The 'Kate Walsh' freak is very interesting. The first mention of her
by Phinuit was when she was living, three years or more ago, when she had
written to my wife imploring her not to sit for development. Phinuit knew
this in some incomprehensible way. A year later [in a sitting] with Margaret
Oibbens [sister of Mrs. James], I present, Phinuit alluded jocosely to this
fear of here again, and made some derisive remarks about her unhappy
marriage, calling her an ' old crank, ' &c. Her death was announced last
spring, as you remember. In September, sitting with me and my wife, Mrs.
Piper was suddenly ' controlled ' by her spirit, who spoke directly with
much impressiveness of manner, and great similarity of temperament to
herself. Platitudes. She said Henry Wyckoff had experienced a change,
and that Albert was coming over soon ; nothing definite about either. Queer
business ! "
[From Miss E. R. Walsh.]
258, Fourth Avenue, December 1st, 1889.
My Dear William,—In reply to the questions you ask apropos of Mr.
Hodgson's "sitting":
Poor Aunt Kate's right side was the one affected by the paralysis. She
had the use of her left hand and arm until near the end. I have no recol
lection of hearing of any such incidents as the "spilling of tea," ifcc. ; but I
thought if anything of the kind had occurred, Margaret, in Forty-fourth-
street, would be likely to remember it, so, when I was there to-day to ask
after Cousin H. [Henry Wyckoff], I questioned M., but with absolutely no
confirmatory result.
The partial coincidence of the following facts with the statements made
to you and your wife comes a little nearer to the mark. The last week in
August Cousin Henry did have a very severe convulsion, lasting many
hours, from which the doctors thought he could hardly rally. An hour
before, one of the nurses, in helping move him, knocked under accident
ally the folding support on one side of the cot on which he lay, and the
poor man slipped almost to the floor. He did not really fall, and was not
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 95
at all injured, but the nervous shock brought on the convulsion. Wonderful
to say, he came out of it entirely, and for several days after his brain seemed
much more active ; he made constant and excited efforts to speak, and it
seemed as though some great change might take place in his condition.
This happened in Mrs. Griffitt's stay with him. By the time we came to
Forty-fourth-street, in September, he had subsided to a great extent, and
then, in a week or two more, began a gradual failure, which has been going
on by the slowest degrees ever since. Now he can't even lift what they call
his "good hand" outside the bed covering without help. They think,
however, he may live months as he is. What a death in life ! Poor man, to
have such an end to his harmless life. Again, Albert did intermit his visits
for seven weeks or more, from the middle of August to early in October,
being detained at home by a severe attack of bronchitis, and when he first
reappeared one of the nurses said he looked more like dying than his
uncle. Since then, however, he has quite recovered, and starts for
California on the 18th.
Elizabeth Robertson Walsh.
17. Fravlein Veith. September 22nd, 1889.
This sitting was held at the summer residence of Professor James
in the White Mountains, Friiulein Veith being a governess in the
family of Professor James, and Mrs. Piper had been several days in the
house. Miss Gibbens and R. Hodgson were also present at the sitting,
the latter taking notes.
Phinuit wrongly mentioned the sitter's father as being "in spirit." To
the sitter's inquiry about her sisters he gave the names Mary [correct] and
Marna [Martha ?], and said that there were two others [correct], who were
afterwards named as Edith and Janet [instead of Ida and Anna]. The
name Edith was written as that of a sister who died, and the throat was
indicated as cause of death. Ida died of croup. She was said to have a
brother in spirit, afterwards that Frith was brother, then that she had two
brothers, the second one also dead. She had two brothers deceased named
Fritz and Julius. Later on the name Juli—Julus was given without any
further statement about it. Some reference was made to a " father's
brother," as an old gentleman who left some property unsettled, and who
bad a son, and afterwards to an uncle Charles. The statement made about
the " father's brother " would have fitted an intimace friend of the sitter's
father, named Karl. Joseph was correctly described as uncle, and " full of
fun." The name Katrine, given by Phinuit early in the sitting, was later
on said to be Adeline, " in the body" and "across the water." The sitter
bad a special friend named Adelheid, who was much in the house in
Germany. The only other name given was Emmsline, the sitter's name
being Emilie. Phinuit made further two or three mistakes about incidents,
and seemed much confused by the names, saying that the sitter's friends
were talking German to him, and he could not understand them. Following
the sitter's remark that she had "a sore eye," Phinuit said, "There's a
9G Mr. It. Hodgson.
little poison there. Something stung you there." This circumstance was
known previously to Mrs. Piper.
Towards the close of the sitting Professor James comes in behind Mrs.
P. and says, "Mrs. Piper, raise your left arm." Repeated. " Raise your
right arm," &c., iStc. Professor James then seizes the right arm of Mrs. P.
and moves it slightly, with effect that Dr. P. "calls after the toucher,"
saying, " Who the devil is it touching me 1 "
18. Mr. " A. r.," Boston.
To Professor W. James.
June 13th, 1886.
My Dear Sir,—I have this evening received your favour dated the
11th.
I have made only two visits to Mrs. Piper. I have had two other
appointments, but in the one case I was too ill to attend, and in the other
the weather was rainy, and therefore "the conditions" (whatever that may
signify) were unfavourable.
At the first interview several remarkable phenomena occurred.
Although I was introduced by another name, my true name was early
given and some incidents of my life stated, which by no conceivable way
could have been known to the medium, even if she had known who I was.
The persons seeking communication with me were described by name and
by person, with much particularity, and the inquiries made were such a*
they would have made if in conscious communication with me. I was told
that I was about to make a journey to a distant part of the country, which I
had no intention to make, and which, indeed, had never been in my
mind, but which soon afterwards it became necessary for me to make, and
I did make it. One thing prominent at this interview and very unusual,
so far as I know, was the concurrent descriptions of persons in life and in
the other world and their relations to each other. For example : It was
said to me that there was an elderly gentleman in the spirit-world, who
was very desirous of speaking with me, and a full description of his person
and of his occupation, while in this life, was given, also a like description
of an elderly lady, as to her person, and what she was at that moment
doing. After a moment it was said that the lady is in the flesh, and that
the gentleman was her husband, and in the spirit-world, and that he
wished me to give his love to her. A moment later I was told that I am
his son-in-law, which is correct, as all of the other circumstances were.
At this first interview I do not remember that there was one thing-
incorrect, but some statements were more vague than others, and this
seemed not only to be known but to be accounted for in this way, namely,
that the communicators had less power with the medium than would be
the case after some further experience, but that there would be an increase
of power with a repetition of attempts.
The second interview was, on the whole, less satisfactory. The medium
seemed less composed, there was more of her own personality in the inter
view, and a certain something akin to anxiety to make it a success. New
persons appeared, and inquiries by them anxiously made concerning what I
knew of a certain person named, who was stated to be very ill, fatally so,
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 97
and who is thus ill, though the fact was not then known to me. Much
conversation similar to that of the first interview was had, some things of a
purely private nature were correctly told ; among others the pet name in
German by which I was accustomed to address my wife when living and we
were alone together. But most of the incidents of this second interview
were semi-psychical or circumstantial, rather than supernal or spiritual.
There was little that was erroneous, though there was some, but it was for
the most [part ?] secondary and unimportant. . . . [A. Y.]
19. Miss Mary A. T., Boston, May 21st [1886].
Miss T. visited Mrs. Piper about May 21st, 1886, as on that date she
wrote to Professor James, giving him an account of the sitting. It was a.
complete failure.
20. Mr. E. D. C, Boston.
[My wife's cousin's widower—got admirable tests. (W. J.)]
Mv Dear James,—The communication I had through Mrs. Piper was of
such a nature that I should hardly like to put it on paper. I will say, how
ever, that I went there totally unknown to her, and the names she called and
the facts she spoke of, known only to myself and those who are no longer
here, astonished me beyond measure, for I had never before visited a medium
or seen anything of the kind. Some time I should like to talk with you
about it.—Very truly yours,
E. D. C.
Boston, June Uth, 1886.
Not till after the sitting, and just before leaving the house, did I let her
know that I was acquainted with you and Mrs. M.
21. Mr. Barrett Wendell, Boston, Mass.
18, Gray's, May 26M [1886].
Dear Mr. Jame.*,—My sitting with Mrs. Piper was rather interesting.
In the course of it, I had what purported to be communications from a
number of people, viz., 1, S. [surname correctly given] ; 2, my uncle G.
[Christian name correctly given]; 3, "Ellie,"whom I half identified; 4,
E. [surname correctly given], who bade me say that he meant to com
municate with you before long; 5, one Alvin Clark, who bade me "thank
Dr. Everett for the beautiful prayer he made at my funeral."
Certain curious circumstances attended one or two of the communications,
and Mrs. Piper's recovery from the trance state was, perhaps, the most
shocking sight I ever witnessed.
I have no question of her honesty ; and not a shadow of belief in anything
supernatural. Mind-reading she undoubtedly accomplished to some extent.
By the way, is not this mind-reading a rudimentary survival of the methods
of communication of lower animals—birds, fishes, horses, &c., &c, much
dimmed in ordinary men by the—in every sense—improved development of
communication by language ?
Barrett Wendell.
ii
•IS Alr. R. Hodgson.
Mr. Wendell adtU, in a letter of June 21st, 1890 :—
Neither C. C. Everett nor William Everett—the only "Dr. Everett" I
know anything about -had ever made a prayer at any Alvin Clark's funeral,
or at least they personally assured me that they had not. Alvin Clark, the
well-known manufacturer of telescopic lenses, was still alive at the time of
my sitting, which I think was in 1886 ; it could not have been later.
The "curious circumstances" mentioned in my second paragraph were
these. During the sitting Mrs. Piper was constantly moving, sometimes
writhing, and frequently uttering inarticulate sounds. In her writhing she
frequently clutched her throat with both hands ; this reminded me of the
curious affection of the throat—a very large external swelling—of which my
friend E. (4) had died within a few weeks. Thus he came into my head ;
within a half hour or so she had tolerably described and distinctly named
him. A similar phenomenon preceded the naming of my uncle (2) ; her
inarticulate utterances took a form that reminded me strongly of the gasping
which I had heard him utter during the interval of nearly a day which
elapsed between a stroke of apoplexy and his death. Once in my head, sho
named him before long.
22. Mr. X. (A Hl,«let,t of mine, W. .1.) May llffc, 1889.
This sitting was practically a complete failure.
23. C. W. F., M.J). Protuknet, R. I., May 17th, 1889.
Professor Wm. James.
My Dear Sir,—As I am interested, as an outsider, in the work of the
S.P.R., and have wtlled its attention, through Mr. Hodgson, to a few easea
of interest, I wish to ask you if any endeavour has been made to prove the
identity of Mrs. Piper's "control"—Dr. Phinuit ? Mr. Hodgson kindly
arranged a seance for me with her in January, and I have had two others
since that date. All have been interesting, and rather force me to believe
that Dr. P. is not a fictitious personage. Von Hartmann says, " If the spirits
.-ire unable to act without a living medium, if they have need of its un
conscious will for their mediation, we may as well content ourselves with
this unconscious will as a cause." 1 fail to be satisfied with this hypothesis,
because some interesting disclosures have come from mediums not in an
unconscious state.
Dr. P. has partially forgotten his French, so far as speaking it goes, yet
I am convinced that he understands all I say in that language, and that
Mrs. I', does not, from my tests of her capacity, and she impresses me as
being a truly honest woman.
I will here give some of my questions to Dr. P. and his replies :—y. ;
' ' What medical men were prominent in Paris in your time ? " A . : " Bouvier
and Dupuytren, who was at Hotel Dieu." (Bouvier died in 1827, Dupuytren
in 1835.) Q. : "Was D. alive when you 'passed out'?" A.: "No, he
passed out before me ; I passed out twenty or thirty years ago." y. :
" How long do you think I shall live ? " (He had pretty well described my
physical condition.) He answered this question by counting in French on
the medium's fingers to eleeen. Q. : " What influence has my mind on what
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 90
you tell me 1" A . : ' f 1 get nothing from your mind ; I can't read your mind
.'tny more than I can see through a stone wall." He added that he saw
objectively the persons of whom he spoke to me, and that they conveyed to
him the messages given. Q. : " Have you any relatives living in Marseilles ? "
A. ; " I had a brother who died there two or three years ago.''
The names of several persons he called up he spelt in French, as Robert,
not being able, seemingly, to pronounce them well in English. He mentioned
by name my three deceased sisters, and dwelt at much length on my brother
George ; our strong attachment, our travels in Europe, of his being near me
:x great deal, of our future reunion, &c., &c Q. : " Will you ask George to
give me some incident in his life known only to ourselves ? " Dr. P. then
:illuded to the loss of our luggage, &c, in Europe. (A train went off without
us, in which were our coats, luggage, &c.)
. . . " Robert and Clara are very grateful to you for your good
care of their son, your nephew Georgie ; you and Georgie will surely go to
Europe together after your mother's decease." This was spontaneously given,
and much was added regarding this nephew. Being quite curious as to the
result of a sdance I desired my nephew to have before my last one, he got a
friend to arrange one, so that his name should not appear. At this seance of
my nephew the first names given were those of his father and mother, but no
impression of any weight was made upon his mind by the seance, and he
utterly discarded the spiritual hypothesis. In drawing out of him what little
I could, I found he asked his father to give him, the son, his exact age. He
asked Dr. P. how his uncle (myself) was. A. : "Oh, C. W., he has
." (Correct.) " He plays on the violin." (Correct.) At my seance
subsequent to this Dr. P. spontaneously said : "Your nephew George has
been here." I said, he is sceptical about your being a spirit. Reply: "No
matter how smart George is, he will have to learn that there is another life."
(My nephew, who is thoroughly absorbed in his work as professor at the
M. I.T., had said to me that he didn't want another life.)
At my first seance Dr. P. said : "Your friend William is here, and ho
addressed you as C. W. (This," said Dr. P., "is the way you sign your
name), and William is determined to give you his whole name before I go
out." As Mrs. P. began to come out of the trance, " Pabodie " was spoken
with great force, and Mrs. P. gave a start, saying, " Somebody spoke right
in my ear." I thought she seemed to think I had done so. At my third
seance Dr. P. said spontaneously : " William Pabodie sends his love to you,
and says he has suffered greatly over here from remorse of conscience ; and
that, had he his life to live over, he would not do what he did." (He com
mitted suicide in 1870.) . . .
Dr. P. said : " Many people think I am the medium ; that is all bosh."
<}.: "Do you see George ?" (Brother.) A.: "Yes." Q. : " How does ho
look ? " A. : " He has dark hair, and looks younger than you." (He had
nearly black hair, and died at forty-two, and I am nearly sixty-one.) Q. :
" Flow do you get what you tell me about myself ; my length of life, my going
t-i Europe, &c. ?" A.: "I get it from your astral light." . . . Ho
seemed to know about my mother's condition, and spoke of it spontaneously.
I then asked, "Can you tell me how long she may live i " A. : " I cannot,
s'.-c that she will live a year or two longer." . . . The sense of taste I
1! 'I
100 Mr. R. Hodgson.
found to be not in the tongue, but on the forehead. [See p. 4.] Q. : " Do
you see me now distinctly?" A.: "I see more your ethereal organism."
Q. : " Can you tell me who that lady was whose revenant I saw some years
ago in my own house 1" A. : " That was your sister Clara. Clara was
originally named Clarissa, and it was afterwards changed." (Correct.) The
doctor has emphasised my own mediumistic power at each seance, and has
said that I would surely write. " Get a planchette, and I will come to your
own house as a test. "
C. W. F.
24. Iter. M. J. Savage. 1885-0.
[The Rev. M. J. Savage has long been widely known in the United
States, both as a minister and as an investigator of " Spiritualism."]
Boston, June 26th, 1890.
During the winter of 1885-0, I had my first sitting with Mrs. Piper. She
was then on Pinckney-street, in this city.
Immediately on becoming entranced, her control, Dr. Phinuit, said there
were many spirit friends present. Among them ho said was an old man,
whom he described, but only in a general way. Then he said, " He is your
father, and he calls you Judson." Attention was also called to the fact that
he had a peculiar bare spot on his head, and Mrs. Piper put her hand on the
corresponding place on her own head.
Now for the facts that give these two apparently simple points whatever
significance they possess. My father had died during the preceding summer,
aged ninety years and six months. He had never lived in Boston, and Mrs.
Piper, I am quite sure, had never seen him nor been in any way interested
in him. He wasn't at all bald, but when quite young had been burned ; so
that there was a bare spot on the right side of the top of his head, perhaps
an inch wide and three inches long, running from the forehead back towards
the crown. This he covered by combing his hair over it. This was the
spot that Mrs. Piper indicated. Now as to the name by which he addressed
me : I was given the middle name, Judson, at the request of a half-sister,
my father's daughter, who died soon after I was born. Out of tenderness
for her memory (as I always supposed) father always used, when I was a
boy, to call me Judson, though all the rest of the family called me by my
first name, Minot. In his later life father also got to calling me by my first
name. No one, therefore, had called me by my second name for many
years. I was therefore naturally struck and surprised by suddenly hearing
one who claimed to be my father giving me once more my old boyhood name.
I was not consciously thinking of either of these things ; and I am con
vinced that Mrs. Piper couldn't have known anything about them.
During this same sitting Mrs. Piper's control also said, "Here is some
body who says his name is John. He was your brother. No, not your own
brother; your half-brother." Then, pressing her hand on the base of her
brain, she moaned, as she swayed to and fro. Then she continued, "He
says it was so hard to die away off there all alone ! How he did want to see
mother ! " She went on to explain that he died from a fall, striking the
back of his head. Her whole account of this was realistic in the extreme.
Observations of CerUtin Phenomena of Trance. 101
My half-brother John, the son of my mother — for both father and
mother had been twice married—died several years previous to this sitting.
While building a mill in Michigan he fell, striking the back of his head on a
piece of timber. He was far from all friends ; and was a most tender lover
of his mother. I was not thinking of him until told that he was present.
Many other things occurred during the sitting. But I mention only
these, because, though simple, they are clear-cut and striking, and because I
-see no way by which Mrs. Piper could ever have known them.
M. J. Savage.
P.S.—I have had other sittings with Mrs. Piper. Most of the things told
were, however, too personal for publication. Nearly all are inexplicable on
any theory that does not go at least as far as telepathy.
25. Miss Gertrude Savage. October 23rd, 1888.
Boston, October 23rd, 1888.
I made an appointment for a sitting with Mrs. Piper, under an assumed
name (that of ' ' Miss Margaret Brown "), and giving the address of a friend
on Walnut Avenue.
At the time set I went to Mrs. Piper's ; she kept me waiting for a few
moments, on account of a severe headacho from which she was suffering.
Then, on taking me into her parlour, she spoke with me for a moment or
two. She said, "Your homo is on Walnut Avenue; you must have had
iiuite a little walk over here?" I replied, "No, my home is not on
Walnut Avenue ; I gave you an assumed name and a false address, to make
the sitting a better test." She said, " Oh, well, that does not matter. I
only hope I can give you something satisfactory, for when my head aches so,
it is rather apt not to be so successful." We then went into the darkened
room adjoining, and she took my hand in hers. Immediately her fingers
began to twitch and then her whole body, and she groaned and ground her
teeth, and constantly muttered, "Oh, what's the matter? what is the
matter ? "
Before entering the dark room, I had taken three locks of hair, each one
enclosed in an envelope, and had placed one in the front of a book, one in
the back, and one in the middle. The one in the middle I knew was my
mother's ; it was ouly a few hairs, taken by stealth, for she would not give
her consent to my having them. The other two I had not looked at, and
had no idea to whom they belonged. They were sent me by a friend,
already enclosed in the little envelopes, and I was purposely ignorant con
cerning them—all to make the test more complete. It was on this errand,
for this friend, Mr. Fred Day, that I went to see Mrs. Piper.
On going into the trance state, Mrs. Piper's voice became guttural, harsh,
and she spoke with a decided accent. Keeping my hand in hers, and
pressed against her forehead, she began instantly to speak, and she
talked with me incessantly for an hour. She said : "I never talked
with you before, and you are very peculiar ; it is not easy for me to
tell you anything about yourself personally, you are so queer. I do
not know who you are. I cannot get your name. My name is Dr.
Finway. Can you understand me ? Sometimes people cannot, because
102 Mr. It. Hodyxon.
I speak with an accont." "Oh, yes," I answered, "I can understand
yim perfectly. I want to give you a lock of hair for you to examine."
I then gave into Mrs. Piper's hand the lock of hair from the envelope in the
front of the book—not knowing myself whose it was. Immediately on
receiving it, "Dr. Finway " exclaimed. "Fred! Oh yes, Fred, a young
man, very thin, wears glasses, little board, great friend of yours. This
Fred- -1 never had his hair before, but the influence does not seem new !
[I learn that Mr. Day had sat previously with Mrs. Piper.— R. H.]
Imogene—who's Imogene ? " "I do not know," said I. "Yes. Imogene,
a young lady, friend of Fred's ; influence very strong. Who is she f " " I
am sure I do not know. I did not know he had a friend named Imogene. I
do not think he has." "He has! Don't contradict me!" exclaimed he.
Then he resumed, "This Fred is an only child, mother plump, a lovely-
lady, but she is not long for your world. This Fred is going on a long
journey, across the water, within a year or two. He has already taken two
long journeys, one across the water, one not ; hasn't he, now 1" "I am not
sure," said I. "Well, he has," replied he. "You ask him. What I tell
you I htote —I can see it all, and I only tell you facts, and you will find that
they are so."
I then gave him the other unknown lock of hair, from the back of
the book. Immediately he exclaimed, " LTgh ! This is crazy ! It makes
mc sick!" "Well," he said, "I cannot tell you anything about this,
because the influence is so mixed ; it has been handled by too many people,
and it was not cut off near the head, where the magnetism from the body
could permeate it ; I can't tell you about it." (It proved to have been the
hair of Mr. Day's aunt Mary, who died within the year, and it has passed
through several people's hands, and was cut off near the end of the hair.)
Then I gave him the little lock of my mother's hair, from the centre of
the book. " Ella, " he cried, " she is stingy enough with her hair ! " "This
Ella is very sweet dispositioned, very : but she is not at all well. She has
trouble with her head ; she has fearful bilious headaches, and they come
from the weak state of the nerves of the stomach ; and her liver is, of
course, disordered ; you tell her that I am a physician, and that 1 say for
her to take hot douche baths : now remember ! She is, it seems to me, some
relation to you. Wait a moment— she is your mother. I think. Yes, she is
your mother. And she has mi, thus, troh, qnatre—four children t wo girls
and two boys. You have a brother who is oft', away from you, somewhere,
a little west of you ; he is very independent ; he is a strong influence in
Ella's life. And you have a younger brother, and a sister ; her name begins
with H—0— Hellen, I think it is. But here is an old lady here — in the
spirit. She has only left the body within a month, and she is your grand
mother. You, young lady, are a flirt ! " "No," said I, "I am not." "The
deevil you aren't. You fire .'" cried he. "You are flirty, because you do
not know ; you have not made up your mind ; you like your friends in
general, but no one of them in particular. I can see the picture of some of
them. There is Clifford -he is moody. And his brother Fred is cranky
like you ; he does not know his own mind. Then there is Chester ; he is
out West making his fortune ; and he will make a big one, too. And who is
Bert ?" "I do not know," said I. " Y'es, you do. He is a very good
Observations of Certain Phenomena, of Trance. 103
friend to you, very good, although he is not very demonstrative in his
speech." (I then knew he meant a young friend of mine, a Harvard man,
whom I call Herbert, usually.) Then he said, " And there is this Fred ; he
is a true friend to you : his last name is Day—Fred Day ; and oh ! 1
can see books, papers, and pictures all about him : I think he must
take pictures himself for amusement.
" I suppose you think I cannot see you, but I can—you have dark eyes
and light hair. I always liked dark eyes and light hair—now, what are you
laughing at ?—and you will be married. But there is no hurry, not a bit—
and in the latter part of your life, you will not live here,—it will be in some
foreign country—in England, I think. I can see you crossing the water
with a middle-aged lady and a young man. Your life, so far, has been
rlther even, not eventful ; but it will be full of action, later on. But you
are so peculiar ; and this Fred is so peculiar ; you tell your father that he
will, within a year, realise something from some money he invested out
West, about two years ago ; you tell him I said so, and I fcnoir. And you
tell Ella that she will be better in a few years if she takes care of herself ;
she is a little over forty now, and she is often, on the street, even, taken
with dizziness, and with darkness before her eyes : it all comes from the
weak state of her nerves. And now I am getting tired. Is there anything
you want to ask me ? I will tell you if I can. I cannot tell you even your
name. I do not know : I cannot seem to get your influence separlte from
the others—Fred, and Ella, and all. If you will come some time without
any locks of hair, I will see how it will be then."
Mrs. Piper then came out of the trance, with a face drawn and haggard,
and with a dazed look in her eyes. " Who are you ? " she said. "I do not
know who you are, do I ?" I said, "No, but I will tell you now. I am
Gertrude Savage ; you have met my father, I think." She was delighted to
know me, and who I was, and asked if she had told me anything satisfac
tory. She was very glad when I told her she had.
Everything she told me when in the trance was true as to fact : the
prophecies remain to bo verified. The "Imogene, " so insisted upon, was
immediately verified by Mr. Day, as his old friend, Miss Imogene Gurney,
who3e first name I had forgotten. The lock of hair was his own—and
everything she said in connection with it was true.
During the sitting Dr. Finway talked with me a little in French, but 1
assured him I had forgotten my French. "Oh," he said, and laughed. "I
suppose je lte saU pai is all you can say ?" And one thing further : He
insisted upon it that I must either play or embroider or draw, or do some
thing with my fingers. "No," said I; " my accomplishments are highly
practical. " " Well, I set; notes of music, anyway," said he. " What do you
do?" " I write shorthand. " "Why didn't you say so before 1 That's it.
Shorthand looks like music notas. You do not print it afterwards, though :
you are not a regular stenographer ; you just do it for some friend, to help
him, I think."
All of which, as well as all of the whole interview, was perfectly true.
Gertrude Savagk.
Hr«lncsdaij, October 24/A, 1888.
104 Mr. R. Hodgson.
[Notes by Rev. M. J. Savage, father of Miss Savage.]
June 27th, 1890.
Miss Savage had her sitting on October 23rcl, 1888, and began to write
her account the same day, iut did not finish it till the day following.
Mr. Fred Day paid a visit to England in 1889.
Clifford and Fred were friends of Miss Savage, living in Boston at the
time of the sitting.
Chester's home was in Pennsylvania. He had visited Boston, but had
not been there for several years. He met our family at a summer resort on
the Maine coast, near Old Orchard.
I had invested money out West about two years previously, but while a
good investment, there has been no specially favourable change of any
note.
M. J. Savage.
2ti. Rev. W. II. Savage. Sitting with Mrs. Piper, Hotel Humboldt, Holborn-
street, Boxbury, December 28th, 1888, at 12.30 p.m.
Concerning the two following records of sittings in connection with
the Rev. M. J. Savage, see my remarks, pp. 34-37.
After several remarkable sayings, she suddenly said, "Ah! Here is
somebody from outside—he says his name is Robert West. He wants to send
a message to your brother." Then, after a moment, "I wrote an—he is
writing it and I am reading for you—an AR—TI—article A—G—A against his
\V—work in the AD—V—Advance. What the dickens is the Advance ? "
1 said, " It is a paper. " Then she continued, "I thought he was wrong,
but—he was—right, and I repent, he was right, I want you to tell him for
mo. I am sorry. 1 want you to tell him for me. I want to right all the
wrong I did in the body." I said to her, "Can you see him?" "Yes,"
she replied. " How does he look V I asked. "He has greyish blue eyes,
a beard, a rather prominent nose, a firm mouth, a large forehead, and he
brushed his hair up, so," brushing my hair with her hand, to show the
fashion of his. " He is of medium build, rather tall. He died of hemor
rhage of the kidneys."
The above is an exact reproduction of Mrs. Piper's words, saving that I
may have failed to reproduce in every particular the precise word. The
substance is exact, and the words in no way depart from the sense of what
she said. The description of Mr. West is photographic in its truth. His
appearance at our interview was entirely unheralded by anything leading
up to it. All that had gone before had been personal to myself and confined
to my family and near relatives.
Written out between 3 and 3.30 p.m. on my return from Mrs. Piper's
hotel.
W. H. Savage.
Mr. M. J. Savage writes on June 20th, 1890:--
In explanation of this sitting of my brother, in which the Rev. Robert
West was reported as present, 1 need to say :—
1. He was a Congregational minister in Alton, 111., when my brother was
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 105
a minister, in the same denomination, at Jacksonville, in the same State.
They knew each other there.
2. Mr. West was afterwards a minister here in Boston. He went to
Chicago and became editor of The Advance. While on that paper he wrote a
severe criticism on me, my doctrines, and my work. My brother had not
seen this criticism, and did not even know about it.
3. Neither of us knew the cause of his death. On writing to The Advance,
after this sitting, the correctness of Mrs. Piper's statement as to his death
was confirmed.
4. My brother is the minister of the Unitarian Church in Watertown,
a suburb of Boston.
Mr. W. H. Savage writes July 1st, 1890, from Watertown, Mass. :—
My brother made the appointment [for my sitting] by a letter saying
that a friend of his desired to see her. He gave her no name. [I have since
learnt from Mr. Savage that he had seen Mrs. Piper about one and a-half or
two years previously.—R. H.]
Mr. W. H. Savage further writes July 5th, 1890 :—
1. When Mrs. P. began speaking of Mr. West, she turned with a sur
prised look, as at an unlooked for interruption, with the remark, "Ah!
here is, ifcc."
2. When I asked for a description she turned again in the samo direction
and said, "Hold up your head and let me look at you." Then she went on
to describe as given in the statement.
3. She gave date of death correctly, as well as cause.
4. I did not know that West was dead.
5. As my brother says, I had never heard of the attack on my brother of
which the interview speaks.
[For other incidents concerning Rev. Robert West, see the next account.
From the Congregational Year Book for 1887, it appears that Rev. Robert
West died at Sycamore, 111., of Bright's disease, on October 25th, 1886 :
pastor's assistant at Shawmut Church, Boston, 1881-2 ; editor of Advance,
Chicago, from 1882 till death.—R. H]
27. Rev. M. J. Savage. January 1oth, 1889.
July 24th, 1889.
On January 15th, 1889, the Rev. M. J. Savage had a sitting with Mrs.
Piper, in the course of which Rev. Robert West purported to communicate,
stating that his body was buried at Alton, 111., and giving the text on his
tombstone. Mr. Savage was unaware of either of these facts at the time of
the sitting. He soon afterwards ascertained that Rev. Robert West's grave
was at Alton, 111., but he did not ascertain the text on the tombstone. He
recently informed me of the circumstance, and I have since obtained from
Mr. J. A. Cousley, editor of the Daily Telegraph, Alton, 111., a copy of the
inscriptions on the tombstone. I requested Mr. Savage then to furnish me
with the text which had been given to him through Mrs. Piper. Yesterday
10G Mr. R. Hodgmn.
ho found his notes made on the day of the sitting, and road uio the toxt,
which agreed with that sent to me from Alton—viz., "Fervent in spirit,
serving the Lord."
It. Hodgson.
The above is correct.
(Signed) M. J. Savauk.
July 25th, 1890.
Mr. Savage adds on July 25th, 1890 :—
At this same sitting (January 15th, 1880), the Rev. C. L. (Joodeir,
formerly of St. Louis, Mo., claimed to bo present. I was much surprised,
for I did not know he was dead, and I know of no reason why Mrs. Piper
should have associated us in any way in her mind. I had a slight
acquaintance with him at one time ; and when ho was settled in St. Louis,
I preached the sermon. I made no record at the time of anything beyond
the fact of his purporting to be present. Two days ago I went to the
Congregational House in Boston, and ascertained the date of his death—.
February 1st, 1886.
28. 3/ms Z. (loell-knoicn to Ktr. M. J. Havayc). Noeember 19th, 1888.
[Account by Miss Z.]
While talking with Mrs. Piper before she wont under the influence of
lur control I showed her the stone taken from Mr. Savage, and asked her if
she would, when in the trance state, toll mo all she could about its story, as
1 wished it for a test. She took it in her hand, put it between her teeth,
and then said, ''It was given you by a gentleman, a great smoker, an
Englishman—that is, directly descended in a straight line from English
ancestors ; a man as set as iron, very intellectual, and of a most powerful
will. A man I have the impression has boon to me, and whom I call very
fascinating." Upon my denying that the man had scon her, as I thought
then was true, she said, " I cannot have made a mistake ; but come quickly
into the other room, and sit down as soon as you can, for I can't wait long.''
She afterwards told me she was then partially in the trance condition.
Her first communication was to me about my brother, whose hair I gave
her. She said a young man called Nod anno and said, " Holloa, Charlie !
Holloa, Charlie ! " and said Charlie was my brother. This Ned told of his
own death by consumption some time ago ; how my brother was by his bed
side near to the time he passed away; that ho spout a night by him just
before he died, and said his other name began with "M" or "N" or
something like, but that all was so far removed from mo that it would be
impossible to bo clear about it. All of which I found was true when I
returned home, and none of which I knew, save that a poor boy had died
several years since of consumption —a friend to whom my brother was kind.
The [first] name I never heard before, and was not sure even of his last
name. His message to my brother was personal, and my brother felt it
truth. As soon as she finished this message she began to hurriedly grope
about for the "stone," which was in her lap. She told mo the stone was
found in this country, a long way off, and near where some very valuable
things had been found. Under whore it was found are mines with lead and
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 107
possibly silver. It was given to the owner, who was not I, but a man of
very firm will, and to whom I should return it, by a lady who came into and
went out of his life a long time since, and with whom I had no interest.
The lady she thowjht was now dead. There were three influences about the
stone, as the lady gave the stone from the hand of soma one who gave it to•
her, in the presence of a middle-aged gentleman who stood beside his dear
friend, the present owner. The stone has been kept in a box on the back
part of a desk in a room like an office, of an incessant smoker. Room did
not look like lawyer's or doctor's office. She then described the character
of the man who gave me the stone, speaking particularly of will-power
and intellect, and saying, "Oh, what an old bach. ! isn't he ? Everything
must be just so fixed and even, or ho is frantic with his nerves ; and isn't
ha a fuss? A real old bach. !" As she had already mentioned that I
was a "double-twisted old maid," I tried to induce her to believe that the
owner of the stone and I were in danger of coming nearer to each other than
at present. She made answer to all my old maid silly airs, ' ' No, no, no,
for who then is Ella ? " And then came in a quick tone, " Who's Joseph !
Don't you know ? Well, he is this man's father, and he says he was there
when you took the stone, and he knows you well."
The letter which I gave her she said was so foreign in its magnetism to
me that she could tell but little about it—said it was written a long time ago,
and came from a foreign land. In its surroundings whence it came were five
people, three gentlemen and two ladies—one gentleman an elderly man. She
received the name Elizabeth in its connection, and it seems to contain a sort
of invitation. Near to the letter, or the one to whom it was written, comes
Win. and Ruth. Then I gave her the lock of hair. She said, after a general
outline of the character of the person from whose head it came, which was
much the same as the character connected with the stone-owner, " How'd
you come to have this hair ? The other was your brother's, but where in the
world did you get this I Oh, you cut it off yourself, didn't you ? Where did
that man get his big nose ? He's bean a trip to Europe lately for his health,
and it has done him good, too. Tell him he'll bo as well as ever if he don't
overwork, and that he has catarrh and part of the pain in his head comes
from that." I said, " Does this man smoke as much as the other?" and she
said, " Oh no, not so much nearly, and I like him. He likes you, and you
like him, don't you ? " I then triad to persuade her to believe in a romance
connecting me and the man from whose head I had taken the hair, thinking
that a very probable conclusion. She answered, "Fiancee. No, didn't 1
say who was Ella and Gertrude and Phil ? Why, what are you talking about ?
What's to be done with his other ties '? and let me tell you, if you are think
ing of that, there are as many as five women to be disposed of—then —oh T
what's the use of trying to cheat me ! I know- all about it, and you never
cither of you had such an idea, but Joseph is here, and is this man's father.
He says he sees you talking with his son, and there is never anything but kind
friendship about it. He stood by the window there all the time you were in
that queer little office, and you shouldn't try to cheat a medium so. Joking
is all right, but you needn't try to fool him, for he knows. He's glad to send
a message by you to his son, he wishes you to tell him he watches over him
always, as he ever has, that he's so pleased to sec he has come to bo so good
108 Mr. R. Hodgson.
a man, and that he tries so hard to help others, and he must not be dis
couraged or despondent about it, for he often helps many whom he does not
know anything about, that his father is so pleased to see how he ti'eats his
mother, who is now in the earth-world. Also, he must not give Gertrude a
worrying thought, for she is a good, good girl, and her father need never to
worry a bit about her. " Mrs. Piper told me to put that down in my head
and tell it as soon as possible, for no one but the man himself knew what
thoughts he had about Gertrude. She then told about Ella's sick headaches,
and said "Phil " had a pain and trouble in his chest which his father must
look out for, as he did not know it, and a weak stomach, which was not so
serious. A description of the pleasant influences about the home life of the
family of six—two "big" and four not so "big" people—and the telling why
Dr. F. did not like Ella, because Ella did not like him, and would prefer
others not to come to him, closed the seance.
[Notes on the above by the Rev. M. J. Savage.]
June 27ft, 1890.
During the week preceding her visit to Mrs. P., Miss Z., having
accidentally met me, told me that she was going to have a sitting with Mrs.
P. on the following Monday. I then said, "This will be a capital opportunity
for a test. She will never think of connecting you with me in any way. I
would like you to take two or three things for me, and see if she can get
anything about me." I arranged to take these things to her on Saturday, but
not being well, failed to do so. Meeting her in the Sunday school-room
after church on Sunday, I asked her to step with me into the study, and get
them. We went together to the study ; I unlocked my desk, and took the
stone from a collection of curios which lie there, without telling her anything
of its history. I gave her also a letter and a lock of my own hair, which she
cut off at my request.
Tho history of the stone is as follows :—In the spring of 18(i5 a party of
friends, among them myself, living at San Mateo, Cal., went across the
coast range of mountains to the seashore, where there is a famous pebble
beach, called the Pescadero Peach. While there one of the party picked up
this curious stone among others, and it was given me by a lady of my
acquaintance in the party, and has since lain most of the time in my roller-
topped desk in my study, not strictly in a box. There are mines not far
away from Pescadero Beach. I do not know whether the lady is dead or not,
and have no means of easily tracing her. There was a middle-aged gentleman
in the party, one of my parishioners. I do not know who picked up the
atone.
Mrs. P. 's reference to my habits as a smoker is sufficiently accurate, and
my study looks like an oftico. Ella is the name of my wife, and Joseph is
the name of my father.
What Mrs. P. said of me before becoming entranced was inaccurate as
regards my ancestry. I am of American birth and parentage, though my
ancestors, like those of most Americans, came from England.
The letter was one not written to me, and one in which I had no personal
interest. It was an old letter, bearing evident marks of age in it3 faded
yellow tint, and came from England. I know nothing of the circumstances
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 10[>
under which the letter was written, and do not think they could now be
ascertained. References to nose and trip to Europe and catarrhal tendency
all correct. Gertrude and Phil are the names of two of my children. The
references to the physical condition of my wife and son were substantially
correct, and Phinuit was also right in describing us as a family of six, as I
have four children.
M. J. Savage.
Jioie 27th, 1890.
Rev. M. J. Savage writes on June 30th, 18!)0 :—
I have seen Miss Z.
1. She made the engagement for her sitting in person, and about a week
in advance. Two other ladies were present at the time, and she did not give
her name.
2. The last name of "Ned," in her report, begins with "N."
Miss 7,. writes, about June 30th [received July 1st, 1890] :—
Mr. Hodgson,—At the request of Mr. M. J. Savage, I write you an
addition to the report which you already have, of a sitting which I had with
the medium, Mrs. Piper, November 19, 1888.
My appointment with the medium was made by myself personally. I saw
her for only a moment at the time, as others were waiting for her, and I had
no conversation whatever with Mrs. Piper on any other subject than the
time convenient for her to give me for a scance. I had never seen her
before, and have never met her since, except the day she sat to give me
tests—November 19.
The point which Mr. Savage tells me you wish to know more about
is in regard to something told me of my aunt, who was then in Vermont.
In the midst of other tests, and utterly without suggestion from me, Mrs.
Piper suddenly said she saw a lady by the name of Marie or Maria, and in
the room with her was, she should say, her daughter, perhaps, named Estelle
or Stella. The lady Maria had some trouble on the back of her hands and
wrists which looked like eczema. They were very troublesome to her, but
she would soon come to Boston for a long visit, and her health would be
much improved.
I have an aunt Maria living in Vermont, some one hundred and fifty
miles from Boston, who has a daughter Stella. I immediately wrote my
aunt, asking if she had any trouble with her hands, and in about two days
received a reply, that she had been much annoyed by something on the
back of her hands, and extending up the arms beyond the wrists a little,
which she supposed to be ivy poison, as she knew of nothing else which
could have caused it. She later came to visit us, which was unexpected to
all at that time, and as her health improved she has had no more of the
trouble with her hands.
Mi«3 Z. adds, on July oth :—-I knew nothing of any trouble with my
aunt's hands or arms until told of it by Mrs. P., November 19th, 1888. Then
I wrote inquiring about it, and received the answer which I wrote to you a
few days since.
.110 Mr. R. Hodgson.
2!'. .1/,-.s. IT, March, 1886.
[From Miss E. R. Webster.]
158, North Avenue, Cambridge.
My Dear Mr. Hoduson, —You will find enclosed a statement of the
•experience of the lady of whom I spoke to you. It was written down as
Mrs. D. told it, and is necessarily crude, but I think contains all the
facts. . . . Emily R. Webster.
The statement enclosed by Miss Webster is as follows :—.
January 24th, 1888.
Mrs. W.'s son, Nelson (J. W., ran away from home when he was between
fourteen and fifteen years old, about the year 1869. From that time she
heard from him very irregularly, sometimes a period of several years
elapsing between the letters. In the intervals between his letters, she knew
nothing about his whereabouts, as he was roving from one country to
another. The last letter which his mother received from him was written
three years before the time when she received information about him from
Mrs. Piper. She had given up all hope of seeing him again, and was
inclined to think that he was dead. She had been to Mrs. Piper not [more]
than twice before the sitting in question. On these occasions she had been
there for the purpose of receiving communications from children who had
died a short time before, and had received no message concerning Nelson.
Some time in March, 1880 (this date is correct within a month, without
iloubt), she went to Mrs. Piper for the purpose of obtaining some assurance
of his death, if nothing more. Mrs. Piper did not know her name, and had
no idea what she wished to find out. She went into a trance,[however, and
slid without previous explanation, "You will hear from Nelson within two
weeks." She then went on to tell her that the first letter would not be from
Nelson, but from a friend of his (Mrs. Piper told his name, but the narrator
has forgotten it) concerning him. This would be followed by a letter from
Nelson, the contents of which she did not disclose. She then told Mrs. W.
that her son was coming home. This is all the account that remains of the
sitting. Within the stated time the letters arrived, and later, one an
nouncing his departure for home. These letters all came from California.
He arrived in Cambridge June 15th, 1886, and remained with his mother
until she died, August 10th, 1886.
Mrs. W. wag a Spiritualist, and believed that these communications
came from the spirit- world, but immediately on her return from Mrs.
Piper's, she told her sister of the information she had received, so the vision
was not coloured by the light of subsequent events.
This above account is given by this sister, who hereby testifies to its
correctness. Mrs. H. A. D.
Mrs. D. related this incident to me a day or two after her sister told her,
and before Mrs. W.'s son had returned. Emily R. Webster.
In reply to further inquiries Miss Webster wrote :—
No record was ever mad.) of Mrs. W.'s experience with Mrs. Piper.
Mrs. D. related it from memory, and the only strengthening evidence we
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. Ill
have is that of my memory, according to which her last account varied scarcely
at all from her first one, given shortly after the events occurred. It is not
prohable that the letters exist, for the son destroyed all his mother's papers
after her death. There is no independent evidence to confirm the date of
the sitting, unless Mrs. Piper has it, which is unlikely, as she did not know
Mrs. W. 's name. The dates of the letters too are unobtainable. The son
returned on the Panama steamer which reached New York on or about the
16th of June, 1880. The name has gone from Mrs. D.'s mind.
Mrs, Browne (ne'e Webster) writes on February 16th, 1890 :
" I have seen Mrs. D. this afternoon, and asked her if Mrs. Piper gave
the correct name of the person who wrote to Mrs. W. about her son. She
is absolutely sure that she did. This coincides with my impression of the
story as Mrs. D. told it to me."
30. Mm A. M. R.
Boston, February Uth, 1888.
I have had a number of sittings with Mrs. Piper, I think thirteen within
the past three years, at intervals of some months. At the first sitting I tried
to get some information regarding a friend who had then been dead about three
months. I was told by Dr. Phinuit, the medium's regular " control," that I
probably would not get anything satisfactory for some time, and was advised
to wait about eight months. At the expiration of that time I sat again, and
-at the third sitting from that time (I think my dates are correct) the medium
was controlled for a few minutes during the hour by what purported to be
the spirit of my friend, who, however, seemed to have such imperfect control
that he could only speak in a choked, whispering voice. At the next sitting
he was stronger, and now is able to take control and talk easily and distinctly
for perhaps half an hour. I have received the impression, from what has
been told me through the medium, that for some months after the death of
my friend he did not sufficiently understand the conditions of his new exist
ence, or the conditions under which ho could return, to be able to reach mo
through any medium.
A. M. R.
Boston, Derember 17th, 1888.
I spent a very pleasant evening with Mrs. Piper a week ago Saturday,
and had an interesting sitting.
My friend took control first. He used to be lame ; had a fall when
he was a baby, and one leg was shorter than the other, and he always
walked with a crutch, stopping only on one foot. He has often said to me,
*' You know my lame leg ; well, that is all well now." This evening ho sat
nbout five or six feet from my folding bed, on which were some ornaments.
1 asked him if he thought he could walk over there, and he tried very hard
to raise himself from the chair, without succeeding at first. I told him ho
had better not try, as it might bo too much for the medium. He insisted on
trying, however, but commenced rubbing one leg, and asked me if I
remembered which leg was lame. At last he raised himself, but instead of
walking, as Dr. P. would do, ho leaned heavily on me, and seemed to hop
112 Mr. R. Hodgson.
or hitch along on one foot, exactly as a person would do who could only use
one foot in walking. After he came back, he dropped into the chair
exhausted, and said that was the hardest work he had done since coming
back, and that it was too much of the real life for him ; he did not like it ;
he was very glad to have had the opportunity to handle the articles with the
hands of the medium, because now he could handle them with his spirit
hands, but he did not like it ; he would rather sit in the chair and talk.
I had both of them write their names on a block of paper, with my name.
The two styles of handwriting were very different ; both were scrawly, but I
think I can detect quite a strong resemblance in the capital letter H to my
friend's old handwriting, which was peculiar, although he did not spell his.
own Christian name right. ... I handed my friend a grape, and
asked him what it was. He insisted that it was an orange. Then I handed
him an orange, and asked what that was. He said it was a ball ; did not
know what else to call it. I tried the same thing with Dr. P., and he called
them by their right names at once. I told him the mistake my friend had
made, and he said, " Well, he does not handle things in the material world
as much as I do ; he is as much above sensing an orange as you would be
above your dead body if you had passed out of it," or words to that effect.
I asked my friend if he would not get my sister, who seemed to be there,
and Dr. P. and all to stand back of me when the medium returned, to see if
she could not see them. So when half out of her trance she exclaimed at some
thing which she saw. She described afterwards three persons whom she saw—
two gentlemen and one lady—and also some beautiful flowers. I have had
a similar experience with her twice before. On one of these occasions she
described my friend (referred to above) in general terms, and added : " His.
nose was just a little bit crooked." This amused me, as my friend and I,
before his death, frequently disputed as to the straightness of his nose, and
I always maintained that it was slightly crooked. I am satisfied that Mrs.
Piper could have known nothing whatever of this.
A. M. R.
Boston, Mass., June 23rd, 1890.
I have had a number of sittings since the date of my last letter to you,
and have made notes of what was said within a short time after the sittings.
At each sitting I have conversed with two personalities, Dr. I'., the regular
control, and the control which claims to be the spirit of my friend H. I
cannot give you very much in the nature of tests, as most of my conversation
with Dr. P. was of a personal nature, consisting of advice, &c, more
interesting to me than it would be to anyone else. He recognises me cach
time as an old friend, and remembers a great deal of what he has said to me
at previous sittings ; in fact, his memory seems to be quite a remarkable one.
He has prophesied a number of material changes which are to come into my
life, and which I do not foresee. At first ho mentioned the time which he
thought would elapse before these changes would take place ; but when the
specified time passed, and nothing happened, he said that the changes,
prophesied would certainly come about, but that ho could not tell definitely
in regard to time. Several unimportant things have happened which he said
would happen ; for instance, that a certain person whom I had not seen for
a long time was coming to see me, &c. A lady with whom I am well
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 113
acquainted at one time had a sitting with Mrs. Piper, and Dr. P. told her
she was not going to marry a certain gentleman with whom she was at the
time very friendly. This lady's name was K. At a later date, at a sitting
of my own, I told Dr. P. that he must have xnade a mistake in regard to K.,
a3 she was engaged to the gentleman mentioned, and expected to be married
shortly. He excused himself by saying that he had had only one sitting with
K., and did not get the right influence ; that she was very mediumistic
herself, and ' weakened him when talking with her ; but he added that
"there was many a slip 'twixt cup and lip." It turned out that K. never did
marry the gentleman in question, as he was taken with a hemorrhage, and
died quite suddenly a few months after their engagement. Dr. P. has,
described living friends of mine very accurately, one in particular whom I
remember, with whom the medium was not acquainted, and whom I think
she had never seen.
When my friend H. takes control of the medium it seems to be quite a
different personality, although there is something in the voice or manner of
speaking that is like Dr. P. The voice, however, is not nearly so loud.
When I asked him once why this was, he told me that Dr. P. was right by
him and that he could not stay a moment without his help. In a great
many little ways he is quite like what my friend used to be when living, so
much so that I am afraid it would take a great deal of explanation to make
me believe that his identical self had not something to do with it, wholly
apart from the medium's powers or from anything that may be in my own
mind concerning him. This, too, in spite of the fact that he does not
ahcayt know how to spsll his own name correctly, though I am happy to be
able to state that he certainly knows what his name is. He says the longer
he is away the more he forgets about things in this life, though he does not
forget his friends. In one of the earlier sittings he gave the name of a
mutual acquaintance, a gentleman with whom he wa3 very friendly just
b3fore he died. Also in one of the early sittings he asked me if I did not
remember about his lameness, saying that his spiritual body was not lame,
but that he had to come back that way so that I would recognise him. This
was before he was able to take control himself. He insists that he can see
me in my room, and often knows what I am doing. At one time he askedi
me how I liked that little drab-coloured book that I had been reading with
another person. There was a particular book which I had been reading
aloud with a friend, but it was covered with brown paper, as I remember, and
I had no idea what the cloth cover was. On reaching home I took off the
paper cover, and found that it was a drab-coloured cloth cover. I may have
seen the book when new, and before the paper cover was put on, but if I did
I had completely forgotten about it. I asked him one time if he could telt
where I had been that day. He said I had been in a box with windows, and
had taken out a pencil and written, that after that I went in something else
with horses, then into a building, where he left me. I had that day been in
a drawing-room car of a railroad train, and had done some writing en route,
had then taken a carriage to my destination.
When I talk with H. about the philosophy of spirit return, he always
seems more or less puzzled, and generally refers me to Dr. P., saying that he
knows more about such things. He hardly knew at first what I meant by the
I
114 Mr. R. Hodgson.
medium, but says that he has for the time being another organism, and tl>at
is about all ho knows. When he asked me why I did not come oftener to
see him, I explained to him, somewhat as I would to a child, that the medium
was not always at command, and that I had to pay money for a sitting with
her. He said, "I am an expensive article, then?" I replied, "Yes, you
spirits arc quite expensive articles."
A. M. R.
31. Miss A. A. B., Boston. January or February, 1888.
July \Uh, 1890.
Your letter to my mother . . . was received. She does not think
her sitting with Mrs. Piper was of sufficient interest to report. I had one
sitting, and will send you the account of some portions of it, and you can
use it or not, as you see fit. I wrote it out quite fully at the time.
I went to Mrs. Piper chiefly to see if she could tell me of some china we
had lost. It had been stored during a long absence in Europe, and upon our
return we could not find it. It was taken from our house, among other
things, by a man who had been in our employ for many years. There was
no thought in my mind of his dishonesty. I said nothing about it to
Mrs. Piper either before or during the trance, and she did not even know my
name. I was determined to give her no clue of any kind, and only once
asked a leading question, and then purposely to see if she would take the
opportunity to build anything from it.
She began by speaking of my father's illness, describing accurately his
symptoms, and said his sister Emmeline (who had died many years ago) was
watching over him, and that he would be much better in the fall. This latter
proved true. Then she said, "You have lost some china, and you feel very
badly about it. It was taken from your home by a man who has been in
the employ of your family a long time. It is in his surroundings now. You
must get him to restore it, but do not accuse him of having taken it. He
has already been spoken to about it, and thinks you suspect him. It was a
very wicked thing for him to do, very." Several months after Mrs. Piper
told me this, the china was found precisely where it had been first placed,
and where it had been overlooked, as the box was believed to contain
something else.
Mrs. Piper continued, "There is a Mary here, who wishes to speak to
you. Do you know who I mean ?" " No," I said. She went on speaking
of other things, finally broke off—"This Mary says you must understand who
she is." I said I could not think who it could be. Again, after speaking of
other things, " Mary will not go away. You have a friend Lizzie, haven't
you?" "Yes." " Well, it is her sister. She had such a bad cough. Now
do you know her ? " " Yes." " She wants me to tell you to tell Lizzie that
she is happy, and she doesn't cough now, and she sends her love." All this
very emphatically. Mary I had never seen ; she died years ago in
consumption, before I knew Lizzie, and without the explanation I should
never have thought of her. Once again Mrs. Piper returned to her, and
said, " Mary is still here, and wants you very much to tell Lizzie that she
wants to see her," adding, "you will tell her, won't you?"
The one rather leading question I asked was if an aunt for whom I was
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 115
named was present. She said, "No. Do you wish to speak with her?"
" Yes." "Then I will have to call her." In a moment she said, " She does
not come ; I can't find her. Did she pass away a long time ago ? " "Yes,
many years." "That is the reason she does not come. She has grown too
far away from this world." " Do they, then, forget this world ? " I asked.
" All that is material is forgotten as of no consequence. It is all a spiritual
growth, and all spiritual growth here will help you there. "
" Did you ever own a bird ? " " Yes." " It is a parrot, and is flying all
about your head now." " Do birds, then, have another life ? " "I tell you
this—anything that you have had here and want there again, you will have.
You will have that parrot again." I never owned but one bird, and that
was a grey parrot.
" Do you expect to go to a party in a few days ? " " No. " "Well, you
will. Within three days I see you in a large company." I did go in just
three days, most unexpectedly. Another prophecy, that she saw me across
the ocean within two years, was not fulfilled. She described accurately my
home surroundings and my life. She spoke of a number of persons being
present, always giving the name, and several times naming the member
of the family to whom they sent a message. She also mentioned a number
of names that I did not know at all.
These are the chief points of the sitting, I think, though I have not by
me the report I wrote at the time. It made a deep impression upon me. I
lihall be much interested in the report of the Society.—Yours very truly,
(Miss) A. A. B.
Miss B. writes on July 17th, 1890 :—
I cannot give you the precise date of my sitting, but it was a month or
two after my mother's, in January or February of 1888. My mother made
my engagement without mentioning for whom she made it.
The original draft of my interview is in our town house, and in a day or
two I will go in and get it, and then add some other matter. If I remember
rightly, the rest of it was so very personal I should hesitate to publish it
even without my name. 1 will then try to give you some statement of my
mother's sitting.
Miss B. writes on July 21st, 1890 :—
I will add from my notes upon my sitting with Mrs. Piper what I have
omitted from my first paper.
"You have a brother William in the spirit-land." ... I had a
brother William who died when a child.
" I see you painting. You get too absorbed and got very tired. Work
for half an hour and then walk about the room. You are not strong enough
to work steadily." . . . You were very strong once, but for some reason
lost your health. But you are much better, and will be very well again. You
are made of good material, and there is no disease." It is true I was
particularly strong, but was poisoned and for some years was much out of
1 2
11G Mr. R. Hodgson.
health. When I saw Mrs. Piper I was much better. My painting affected
me as she said.
Sho spoke of different friends in the spirit-land as being present, only-
saying of them that they were very happy.
Sho broke off very abruptly once and said, " Who is Sadie ? " " I do not
know." "Yes, you do. She says she did not know you, but knew Lettie.
She had a cancer in her cheek—now you know 1" " Yes. " " She says, give
her love to Lettie." This was a young girl whom I had never seen, who died
as described, and of whom I had heard much from " Lettie."
Certain other incidents of my life she described with perfect correctness,
and the sitting closed.
Of my mother's sitting I can give you but very little, as she had for
gotten much of it. She spoke first of my father's illness, saying that was
the most important thing in her life then. She described correctly his
symptoms, and told her, as she had told me, that Emmelino was watching
over him. She described her home and surroundings correctly, particularly
mentioning Annie, my mother's maid, as being such a very nice person, and
said she would live with us a long time.
She also spoke of a brother "Joe," who lived a long way across the
country, and who would come into her life in some important matter. The
brother lives in Cleveland, and " the important matter " has not yet trans
pired. She spoke of Judge B., and my mother said she knew no such
person. Mrs. P. said, "Your husband will know him. Ask him when
you go home." My mother did so, and found he was an old and particular
friend of my father's, who died many years ago. My mother never knew him.
32. Mr. A. J. C, Mcriden, Conn, About Febmari/, 1889.
Miss A. A. B. [see the preceding account] writes on July 17th, 1890 :—
I enclose to you a statement of a sitting my uncle, Mr. A. J. C. , had with
Mrs. Piper. I made the appointment for him, about one year after I had
my sitting. I made the engagement in my own name, but did not mention
for whom I made it. The remarks in regard to my uncle are very accurate,
as he is very much of a recluse, living among his books, much attached to
his home, and with the great aversion to medicine which she amusingly
illustrates. He is also " open to conviction," but hard to convince. Since
he has put down the prophecy of my going to Europe and marrying there, I
will add to the statement she made me on this subject, which I omitted in my
account, that she said I would be in very congenial company there ; that I
would marry and be very happy ; and with much emphasis, putting her hand
in mine, "This will certainly happen, and when it comes to you you will
remember what I tell you. " I mention it as being rather remarkable, her
telling this to both of us, the sittings being a year apart, and I having had
no communication with her in the meantime.
[Account by Mr. A. J. C]
"lam Dr. Favineau [Phinuit]. What do you want 2 "
" You have in your surroundings William. He is not woll and does not
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 117
take good care of himself." (Thus statement, if made concerning Mr.
William , my brother-in-law, at whose house I was a visitor, would be
true. )
" Henry is here in the spirit—says he is a friend of yours, but considerably
younger ; knew your family well ; there is something about over the water."
(I did not at first think of Henry "C," and, upon my saying that I did not
know who was meant, the remark about " over the water " was made, and
this reminded me of Henry "C," of Hartford, Conn., with whom I had
planned a European trip. It seems he had spoken of it to his friends, for it
was mentioned in his obituary published in the Hartford Conrant.) "Gives
you his love." " 1 see you in your library—books all around and a desk
there. There are four in your family. I see a lady—she is your sister ;
your mother is there—she is lame in this (right) foot. There is a little
girl—not so very little—she is a sister's child ; she plays music a great
deal."
Is the sister who is with me older or younger than I ?
" She is a great deal older ; at least, she looks so. I see your father's
picture, with a remarkable expression ; no hair on top of his head ; hair
around the base. You have had trouble with irregularity of heart action.
You thought something might be the matter with the heart. But there was
nothing. It was nervous, sympathetic ; came from the stomach. You must
be very particular about your diet. Be careful what you eat. About two
years ago you made a change which was very beneficial."
Shall I take medicine ?
"No, there is no use giving you medicine. You are not that kind of a
man. You would let the vials stand until the bottoms dropped out before
you would take it. Do you know fussy willow ? You can take some of that
and pour on boiling water and let it stand, and take a wine-glass full of that
if you like.
" I don't like your mother's condition, butshe will live a good while yet.
You lead a very regular, quiet life, with nothing to excite you, and are in
comfortable circumstances, financially, and it will be a long time before
you are in the spirit-land. There is one Tom here, and says that he is a
friend of yours—that his family lived near you. His hair is very grey—
says, remember him to his wife. Your father is here ; says you thought of
doing something to your house ; that }'ou had better postpone. You will go
.away within two years on account of somebody's health."
Do you mean permanently ?
"Xo. You are so settled that nothing on earth can take you away.
Your mother's mind is preserved remarkably. Is it not wonderful ? "
How many are her family ?
" Five brothers—three are living—two in the spirit. Three sisters."
Wrong. There are five sisters.
•'I can see only three. Your sister who is with you has had trouble
with one tooth since you came away. Your niece, who is with you, has a
humour, a breaking out." I don't think so. "She has. Ask your sister
and she will tell you. You are staying with friends here—a sister. You
have a niece who paints. She will go to Europe within two years and meet
Mime one there whom she will marry. You have a friend, the last three
118 Mr. E. Hodgson.
letters of whose name are ' S—0—N.' He is at a distance from here. You
have a grandmother in the spirit named Elizabeth. One of your grand
mothers had a relative named Sarah, who died from a sore in her side. Your
mother will know about it. You deal in real estate." No. "There is
something about land—I see land." I own land. " Hurry and ask your
questions. I am tired.
" You do not readily believe. You are willing to receive evidence, but
hard to convince. You have been around a good deal, and know the world
well."
I do not remember the precise date of my visit to Mrs. Piper. I think
it was in February, 1889. My niece made the appointment for me, giving
her no information regarding me. I waited about an hour in the parlour
while she was occupied with another, Dr. Savage, she said, and said that she
was tired. At my first leisure, two or three days afterwards, I wrote out the
above, putting down what she said in the order in which it was said, as
nearly as I could recollect.
In the early part her statements were, in the main, positive and
emphatic. Afterwards, especially at the last, mostly tentative and inter
rogatory, and at the last, in response to my inquiries for names of friends in
the spirit-land (made for the purpose of testing her powers), her guesses
were no better than anyone could make. She many times repeated, " I am
tired."
All the statements relative to my family were strikingly accurate, except
as to the number of my sisters, and that relative to my sister having trouble
with her tooth. My niece had the humour or breaking out, although I was.
not aware of it, and questioned it.
Mother was at the time nearly eighty-eight, now past ninety, and still a
cyclopiedia of historical, literary, and general information.
The diagnosis for me was correct, so far as I know or can judge. The
family physician had examined me for heart trouble and said substantially
tha same, and a system of dieting adopted two years previously had helped
me greatly.
Father's picture is as described. (It represents him at eighty-five. He
died at ninety-three.) There was a " Tom," commonly so-called (Thomas.
Clark), answering the description, who married my cousin and removed from
here to California, where he died, a full believer in the Spiritualistic faith.
Father's mother's name was Elizabeth. I was thinking of doing some
thing to the house which is not yet done. Mother knows nothing of the
"Sarah." The prophecies regarding my niece and myself have not been
fulfilled.
My recollection of the order in which the statements were made was.
approximate only. There was no connection between them, but abrupt
changes of subject.
Before the seance Mrs. P. asked if I came for medical advice. I said,
"No," my object being merely to investigate, to witness myself
phenomena of which I had heard.
A. J. C.
Meriden, Conn., July 1oth, 1890.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. llf)
33. Mr. F. S. S. Record of Seance with Mrs. Piper [about June, 1888].
The following record was written immediately after returning from Mm.
P.'s house :—
A week before the seance recorded below, I went with another man, both
of us unknown to Mrs. Piper, to make an appointment. She gave us a
sitting at that time, but with no success. 1 I then made an appointment for a
week ahead, not through the Psychical Society, but on my own account, and
uot giving my name. My friend, subsequently to my second seance, assured
me that he had given no information of any kind whatever to Mrs. P., or to
anyone else. At the second meeting the medium soon began to talk in the
usual broken English dialect, so dear to mediums, as follows :—
"There is a 'Lou' in your surroundings. She is Louise, but she is
called ' Lou. ' " (My sister has a step-daughter of this name.) "There are
five of you; three brothers, one of them Harry." (Answer: "No, Harry
is a brother-in-law." I have one own brother.) "Then there are Lizzie and
Fanny, who are associated together." (My brother-in-law has two sisters,
Lizzie and Fanny.) "Lou is now with Lizzie." (They were at the time
together at Greenfield, Mass.) "Lou and Harry are associated" (father
and daughter), "and Lizzie and Fanny" (sisters). " Then there is your
mother." (Question: What is she like?) "She wears her hair, which is
wavy and grey, drawn simply back on the sides " (accompanied by gesture
exactly indicating). "She has a very sweet face, and pleasant smile." (Two
m:trked characteristics.) "She has a sister ; she is Sarah." (Question :
Well, Sarah is her middle name. What is her other ? Could not answer.)
"She is different from your mother ; has very original ways of thinking, and
ideas. She is very positive ; set as the hills ; and doesn't believe in mc.
She is a crank, and so am I, but she will have to be a good deal bigger than
she is to scare me. "
(Tiiis part of the conversation is very interesting, as it bristles with many
facts. My aunt is of very different nature and temperament from my mother
in many ways. Her thought is original ; she is progressive and radical in her
ideas. Positiveness and firmness are most certainly characteristics of hers.
My aunt had given several sittings to Mrs. P. , but with no success ; hence
she had become somewhat sceptical ; hence the medium's words, "She does
not believe in me." Mrs. P. had no possible means of associating my aunt
and me, to my knowledge, as neither of us had spoken of the other to the
medium. Her allusions to her " having to be a good deal bigger than she is
now, &c," are also very pertinent.)
" You and your brother have lately had a change." (Question : What do
you mean?) "Your domestic relations have changed, you are living in a
different place." (My parents had lately died, and my brother and I had
moved from the house where we had all lived.) "There is somebody in
your surroundings who is lame. " (I had been lame off and on for several
years, from an injury to the shin-bone from a blow. At the time of my visit
to Mrs. P. there was no trace of lameness in my gait. Question : What is
i I learn from Mr. 8. that Mis. Piper tried but was unable to go into trance on
this 6rst occasion. Both Mr. S. and his companion are well known to me.—R.H.
120 Mr. R. Hodgson.
the matter ?) " He is lame here below the knee, on the shin. It is like an
accident ; there is a growth of some kind." (This was said before touching
the place. There had been some enlargement of the periosteum.) " Yes,
Frank "—(I had previously mentioned my first name in course of inquiry)
—" has had a good deal of trouble with the knee. You don't sleep well, do
you? Your condition is poor from wakefulness." (Perfectly true.) "You
have been on a journey lately for your health." (Question: Where?)
Answer: "Isn't there a place called New York? Well, you went in that
direction and then south." (I had been shortly before this for a change and
for my health as far south as Aiken, S.C.) " You will take another journey
before long. You will be called away by another's illness." [This did not
come true.] " I can't see it all definitely, but you will go away in about a
month."
" Is there any bill on your mind ? " (Question : Bill, what do you mean
—what kind of bill?) "A bill, or a mortgage, or anything? Are you
thinking of buying any building ? " (Two days before this seance a man
had spoken to my brother and me about taking a house as an investment,
upon which there was a mortgage. We three were the only persons
cognisant of this.) "You are sometimes blue and discouraged, owing to
poor physical condition ; but you will come out all right, and you have a
happy-go-lucky temperament." (I had suffered so from sleeplessness, owing
to my lameness, that it did wear upon me a great deal.)
There the medium came to, and the seance ended. This is my only
experience of the sort.
F. S. S.
34. "Mr. M. N." March, 1888.
April 5th [1889].
Briefly stated, the three cases of prophesying which I have experienced
with Mrs. Piper, and which have come true, are as follows :—
About end March of last year I made her a visit (having been in the habit
of doing so, since early in February, about once a fortnight). She told mc
that a death of a near relative of mine would occur in about six weeks, from
which I should realise some pecuniary advantages. I naturally thought of
my father, who was advanced in yeara, and whose description Mrs. Piper
had given me very accurately some week or two previously. She had not
spoken of him as my father, but merely as a person nearly connected with
me. I asked her at that sitting whether this person was the one who would
die, but she declined to state anything more clearly to me. My wife, to
whom I was then engaged, went to see Mrs. Piper a few days afterwards,
and she told her (my wife) that my father would die in a few weeks.
About the middle of May my father died very suddenly in London from
heart failure, when he was recovering from a very slight attack of bronchitis,
and the very day that his doctor had pronounced him out of danger.
Previous to this Mrs. Piper (as Dr. Phinuit) had told me that she would
endeavour to influence my father about certain matters connected with his
will before he died. Two days after I received the cable announcing his
death my wife and I went to see Mrs. Piper, and she [Phinuit] spoke of his
presence, and his sudden arrival in the spirit-world, and said that he (Dr.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 121
Phinuit) had endeavoured to persuade him in those matters while my father
was sick. Dr. Phinuit told me the state of the will, and described the
principal executor, and said that he (the executor) would make a certain
disposition in my favour, subject to the consent of the two other executors,
when I got to London, Eng. Three weeks afterwards I arrived in London ;
found the principal executor to be the man Dr. Phinuit had described. The
will went materially as he had stated. The disposition was made in my
favour, and my sister, who was chiefly at my father's bedside the last three
days of his life, told me that he had repeatedly complained of the presence
of an old man at the foot of his bed, who annoyed him by discussing his
private affairs.
The second instance I would give you is as follows :—
Dr. Phinuit stated that I would receive a professional offer within two
weeks, by letter, to my present address, with the name of the manager's firm
on the left hand corner of the envelope, and (as far as I could understand him)
either from a man named French, or else from a Frenchman. Within the
time stated the letter came, answering to the description of its appearance,
and to this address, but the offer was from a Frenchman.
The third is as follows :—
Dr. Phinuit stated on one occasion that some relative was suffering at that
time from a sore or wounded thumb. We knew of no one at the time, and
thought this would be a good test. A few days afterwards we went to my
wife's grandmother's to dinner, and we asked our aunt how all the family
were, and particularly if she knew anyone who had a swollen or sore thumb.
She said, "No." Shortly after this conversation my aunt stated that she
had received a letter from cousins in Philadelphia. My wife asked how they
were, and particularly for a certain cousin Jennie. " Oh, by-the-bye," was
the reply, "Jennie has had a little accident ; she has injured her thumb in
some machine."
I chose these three instances for their simplicity, and I hope they will be
of service to you. My wife, as a rule, attended my sittings with Mrs. Piper,
and can attest these facts. I cannot be sure of any other I can call upon to
support my testimony. I have certainly mentioned certain foretellings to
others before they became facts, but I cannot recall to whom I have done so, as
these matters have chiefly concerned myself and my wife. I leave it to your
good taste to print nothing that will identify me or my family with any
publication you may issue, either at your meetings or in the papers. I can
also say that Dr. Phinuit cured me, or apparently did so, by a prescription
sent me by Mrs. Piper, of an internal trouble from which I had suffered for
eighteen months.
["M.N."]
I hereby corroborate the above statements.
[••Mrs. M. N."]
35. Mr. and Mrt. T. About June, 1888.
[From Mrs. T. Detroit, June 3rd, 1889.]
In response to the request contained in your note of May 27th, I will
give you as full an account as possible, knowing that you desire the facts for
scientific reasons alone.
122 Mr. H. Hodgson.
Mr. T. or myself had never seen Mrs. Piper, but we had heard of your
Society, and that you used her mediumistic power for the purposes of inves
tigation. For that one reason, and that alone, I had sufficient confidence to
wish to consult her. I am not a believer in the generally so-called medium,
and previous to our visit to Mrs. P. had been an absolute sceptic We were
visiting in Taunton ; took the early train to Boston, and left on the 3 p.m.
train for Detroit. We reached Mrs. Piper's shortly after 9 a.m. She was
an absolute stranger to us, as we were strangers to her, meeting her then for
the first time. My husband introduced himself and me as Mr. and Mrs. T.T
and requested a sitting, which she declined to give, having an appointment
at 9.30. We were urgent for the sitting, and she yielded sufficiently to say that
if we desired to wait, and the parties failed to keep the appointment, she
would give us the time. We waited and secured the sitting. Nothing was
aid of ourselves—we were there to test her power. I had lost a very dear
aunt in November, and my loved father had gone on in May. Grief-
stricken under the double bereavement, 1 was soul-hungry for some word—
if word or sign were possible. Mrs. P. could not know of this, for we do
not believe in mourning robes, and I wore not a particlo of black.
You am, therefore, imagine my astonishment when, after Mrs. P. was
under control, and the greeting by the little French doctor (the voice was
that of a brisk old man and a foreigner ; he introduced himself as Dr.
Findlay, or such a name ; said he was French), wc were greeted by our
Christian names of Frank and Mary, and told there was a lady there who
was so glad to see us and wanted to speak with us ; her name was Mary—
(hesitating on the surname, but giving it correctly). "She is not strong
yet, and will speak to you through mc. She left you so suddenly—she
scarcely realised it, and it was a great grief to her to leave her children.
She is still weak, but is gaining strength. She knows now it was all for
the best. She asks, ' How are my dear children, Mary ? Don't let them
forget me. I want them to feel I am ever near them, and tell Cyrenius
(her husband) not to grieve so—that all is well, and that the babe is with
me and our other children. Tell him I could not be reconciled to it at first,
but now I know it is best, and I am happy here. I havo tried so hard to
make myself known to you at home, but could not. I am often there, and
see the home life going on, and see your care of them . Mary—and you,
Frank—you were so kind and thoughtful, and I love and thank you both.
Oh, Mary ! I've seen my own dear mother's face and been with her ; and
you know, Mary, how I have longed to know her,'f &c I then asked, Did
you want me to stay with the children, aunt Mary? "That has been part
of my happiness here."
The doctor then said, "The lady is tired and must rest awhile." He
described her perfectly, even to a peculiar motion of the hand, and spoke of
much pertaining to the home and of persons in my husband's family and my
own, calling each one by Christian name—describing them or saying some
thing of each one—of at least fifteen or twenty individuals. He spoke so
rapidly, and of so many, I became confused, and from surprise was dumb-
foundered. Then he said, ' ' Here comes a gentleman who wants to speak to
you. Ho is hurrying and motioning to me. Why, what's the matter with
him ? He is lame—the left leg is drawn up as if from rheumatism." (My
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 123
father slipped on the ice six weeks before his death, and had broken his left
leg below the hip ; the bone did not knit, and it was several inches shorter
than the right.) "It's your father, Frank." " No, not my father, "said my
husband. " I tell you it is your father. " " It is my father, " said I. "Well,
it is your father any way." Then came the greeting from my father and a
description of the life there, and of his first day there, and that his only
unhappiness was that he could not tell me how well it was with him. He had
found so many of his friends there—his father and mother and my mother.
He spoke of the home here and of my step-mother, and of much known to
him alone. He spoke of the life at some length and in words and manner
peculiar to himself. My father had been a great student, with an intense
love of books, and always expressed his thoughts with a piquant, caustic,
ready eloquence, as rare as it was peculiar to himself. Anyone who had
ever heard my father speak could not mistake the beautiful and rounded
phraseology of his address to us. It could be no one but my father.
Dr. F. then said the old gentleman was weary and must rest, but he was
so glad to have seen us. Dr. F. then spoke of my sisters and others,
and of circumstances about us, and asked if we had any questions. I had
received so much more than I had anticipated that I could think of no
question to ask. I must have time to think it all over. What did it
mean ? It could not be mental transference. Dr. F. had talked rapidly
and steadily for more than an hour without the slightest hesitation, and of
persons and things some of whom were far from our thoughts.
All of the foregoing that I have written, as given us, was true in every
particular. I cannot explain it in any material way.
Maey E. T.
[From Mr. T.]
Detroit, June 12th, 1889.
As you request a statement from me, I will answer the items in your
letter instead of my wife.
On our way to Taunton, a year ago, wc stopped in Boston a few hours,
and called at Mrs. Piper's house, hoping for a sitting. She was out, and I
left a card with my name signed, as it will be at the end of this letter,
asking her to name an hour she would give us during the coming week. The
name was written hastily with a lead pencil, and in an awkward position
while standing at the door. I did not hear from her, so on our return to
Boston, on our way home, we called on her again. She said she had not
been able to read my name and therefore had not answered the note. We
waited a long time for others to come who had engaged the time, talking
more or less on general subjects. I told her my surname and that we lived
in Detroit, but nothing more. From the initial F. she might have guessed
that my name was Frank, but she could not have gotten at it in any other
way. My wife's first name she could not have known, as we were careful
not to address each other before the sitting by our given names. Almost
the first words, if not the first ones, after she went into the trance state,
were " Frank and Mary, I am glad to see you." During the sitting she
mentioned fully twenty relatives and friends, all but one or two of whose
names w«re- given without mistake, and most of them without hesitation.
The name of Cyrenius troubled her, but was given finally without our help .
124 Mr. R. Hodgson.
Mary Newcomb—the name you ask for—she also stumbled over somewhat.
The point that made the strongest impression on both of us was the message
that came from my wife's father. He was a man of strong personality, and
many peculiarities of speech. The message seemed as though he were
speaking, and in nearly his natural voice ; it was so natural that we both
were startled.
F. N. T.
36. Miss Lilian Whiting. January 4th, 1889.
[Appointment made by R. H., but Miss Whiting had made one or two
previous attempts to have a sitting with Mrs. Piper, to whom her name was
known.]
The Brunswick, Boston, January 5th, 1889.
My sitting with Mrs. Piper yesterday was one of curious and satisfactory
interest. As a test I asked her to describe my rooms at the Brunswick. This
was done in several particulars. One thing described was a photograph of
the novelist, Edgar Fawcett. "What does that man do?'' I inquired.
"He writes books," was the reply. In my room are several pictures of
Miss Kate Field. This was noted by the medium as " so many pictures of
one lady—oh, a great many ! " "Tell me about that lady," I said. "She
appears before the public in some way. Yes, I see ! she lectures. She has
a very strong intellect—a brilliant mind. One of these pictures I do not
like. It is not good of her. You should put it away. Turn the back to the
wall." [This is true ; the largest picture I have of Miss Field being one that
does her injustice.]
The prophecy was made that I should go abroad within a year to remain
indefinitely, and that hereafter my life would be spent mainly in England.
The place was described ; a country estate, north of London. We can see
whether this will be verified. At this time nothing could seem more
improbable and all but impossible to me. This I said to the medium, stating
that I had not money enough to dream of doing such a thing, but she replied
that it would come.
My writing methods and many personal details were correctly given.
Lilian Whiting.
July 7th, 1890.
Glancing at the proof copy of the above, for which I am greatly Indebted
to your courtesy, may I add that the prophecy of my going abroad has not
been fulfilled ; but that circumstances occurred, after my sitting with Mrs.
Piper, which were entirely undreamed of by me previously, and which
would have resulted in almost a literal fulfilment of the prophecy, only pre
vented by an equally unlooked-for event ? That is, the prophecy nearly
.approached completion, but did not reach it.
I had a subsequent sitting for a friend—with a lock of hair and regarding
an illness. Mrs. Piper described the person more vividly than I could have
.done, and prescribed a medicine that proved highly efficacious. . . .
Lilian Whiting.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 125'
37. Mr. "CD." May 3rd, 1889.
Mr. "C. D.," a student of psychology, went to Mrs. Piper under im
assumed name. He recorded the sitting immediately afterwards, and it was a
very successful one on the whole, many correct statements being made about
Mr. " C. D.," his family, and acquaintances,—all matters known to Mr.
" C. D." There were a few mistakes, and some attempts at prophecy which
were failures.
38. Dr. C L . October 3Ut, 1889.
[Appointment made by me. But I believe that Dr. L had called
on Mrs. Piper previously, and had given his name.—B. H.]
Boston, November 9th, 1889.
I saw Mrs. Piper October 31st. She did not know me before.
She reminded me of an accident by which I, as a seven-year-old boy, was
very nearly drowned. It is very seldom that my thoughts occupy themselves,
with the incident. I did not at the time fully realise the danger.
The trance person and I spoke French two or three times during the
sitting. He did not seem to be desirous of talking it a long time. He
would very soon translate my answer into English, and then go on in
English.
Asked if he could tell me which gentlemen I had dined with the previous
day, he described both of them in a surprisingly accurate way, their appear
ance as well as their character.
He told me how many we were at home, described my sister, and gave
even her name, Marie. She is in Norway.
He saw me surrounded by books and papers.
He told me that my stomach and nervous system had been broken down,
and described my illness at the time very well.
I have been trying to press my brain for more, but I think this is about
all of any.importance that resulted of the sitting.
Q L .
November 20th.
In conversation Dr. L—— told me that Mrs. Piper in trance said nothing
that was incorrect.
R. H.
39. Mrs. 0. H. Browne.
[March 5th, 1891.]
Mrs. Browne (nee Webster) wrote her account early in March, 1891. Her
first sitting was about July 22nd, 1886. I abridge her statements.
"Mrs. D ,who sewed almost daily at the house of Mr. R , where I
lived, had told me the story (No. 28, from Miss E. R. Webster) which I sent
you, and also that Professor James was interested in Mrs. P. and Miss
R , 'Cora,' and I determined to go to her. No one but Miss R.'s
sister knew our intention." Mrs. Piper consented to sit for one of them and
Mrs. Browne took the sitting.
"The first words she uttered in her 'trance voice' were: 'It is Dr.
Finnee ' (I spell it as she pronounced it, the accent was decidedly on the
126 Mr. R. Hodgson.
last syllable, but the t e ' was not the French one), ' who is talking to
you.' I did not understand and she repeated it twice, always the same
pronunciation."
Phinuit talked about " Otto,' who was in Europe at the time, and
called him Her-r-r , and said : " You will marry in two and a-half years.
You will marry Herr." [I was married in a little more than three years, but
not to Herr.] Phinuit described two other men and gave their names
correctly, George and Fred. He called Mrs. Browne Elmily from the first,
and kept apologising for mispronouncing it ; Emily being her first name.
"The next day, after my first sitting, Miss R. went to see her, but got
nothing new, I believe."
The second sitting was probably in the fall of 1886. Phinuit got the
name " Oscar Zinkeisen," known to Mrs. Browne, but wrongly said that he
was older than she was.
Phinuit spoke of a man named " Frank Tarbelle." He was an acquaint
ance of " Cora's," and Mrs. Browne had never met him.
1 ' In fact, much of what Mrs. Piper said to me was exactly the sort of
thing one might dream ; queer mixtures of things perfectly natural, and
things too silly to repeat ; slight suggestions magnified, and constant reitera
tion of points which took her fancy ; astonishing accuracy in much, and
very little that could be shown to be absolutely wrong."
"I have not the slightest recollection of the date of my third sitting. I
think, however, it was four years ago next spring. Mrs. P. sat for both
Miss R. and me.
"We took the hair of two friends. " Cora " had both in one compartment
of her purse, and when she gave the first lock to Mrs. P. the latter com
plained that it had been with other hair which she demanded, saying she
could make nothing out of lock No. 1. On receiving lock No. 2 she imme
diately described the original of No. 1, giving an estimate of his character
entirely coinciding with mine. While she was pressing these locks to her
forehead, she seized my hand and held it forcibly (part of the time to her
forehead) while she described the owners of the locks. I have forgotten
whether she told the name of lock No. 1, but No. 2—whom she described
most fully—was " Bertram Ellis." You will notice that she mentioned him in
Mr. Browne's sitting. 1 am very certain that she spoke of him the first or
second time I went, though I find nothing of it in the notes I took. Mr.
Ellis was a friend of Mr. Browne's, and a man whose distinguishing
characteristics were very easy to describe. It was evident that his influence
was the stronger of the two. . . ."
Emily W. Buownk.
40. Mr. J. Rogers Rich.
The following report has been made from contemporary notes of the sit
tings. On the day of each sitting I made notes in m.y diary of all the important
points. There was much repetition at my sittings, and a few other matters
were referred to, especially concerning the landing of my ancestors in
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 127
America, which I have not had the opportunity yet either to prove or
disprove.
Having frequently heard of the remarkable things said to be done by Mrs.
Piper, I finally persuaded myself to call on her. I had always had a dislike
for any " mediums " or "spiritualists " of every kind, but on meeting this
woman I was at once attracted to her by the simple and sympathetic manner
which she showed on greeting me, and I felt a delicacy about making
an appointment for a sitting, she seeming to me too gentle and refined for a
business of this sort. I was at once struck with the peculiar light, or inward
look, in her eyes. Her voice was full and agreeable, but in every way a
*' feminine " voice, and there was an entire absence of any masculinity in her
mAnner, which I had been expecting to find under the circumstances.
My first sitting with her was on September Cth, 1888. With little
trouble she went into the trance—a state which was entirely new to my
experience—and after a moment's silence, which followed her rather violent
movements, I was stwtled by the remirkable change in her voice—an
exclamation, a sort of grunt of satisfaction, as if the person had reached his
destination and gave vent to his pleasure thereat by this sound, uttered in
an unmistakably male voice, but rather husky. I was at once addressed in
French with, " Bonjour, Monsieur, comment vous portez vous ? " to
which I gave answer in the same language, with which I happen to be
perfectly familiar. My answer was responded to with a sort of inquiring
grunt, much like the French " Hein ? " and then the conversation
continued in English, with rarely a French word, and more rarely a
French expression coming into it. Nearly all my interviews were begun
in the same manner. I had given no means of identification, and simply
awaited results. At the time I made my first visits to Mrs. Piper I was
quite unwell with nervous troubles, for which I had been under treatment
by a noted specialist. The first thing told me was of a "great light behind
me, a good sign," &c. Then suddenly all my ills were very clearly and dis
tinctly explained and so thoroughly that I felt certain that Mrs. Piper
herself would have hesitated to use such plain language ! Prescriptions
were given to me for the purchase of herbs, and the manner of preparing
them, which I was to do myself. I speak of this now, as I shall have
occasion to refer to it farther on. My profession (painting) was described,
and my particular talents and mannerisms in design were mentioned. I was
surrounded with pictures—"Oh ! pictures everywhere ! " At this interview
my mother was clearly described ! She was " beside me, dressed as in her
portrait (painted a year or two before her death), and wearing a certain cameo
pin, the portrait of my father." Two living aunts, who are very dear to me,
my brother and his wife " Nellie " were well described, and in such a way
as to have made it impossible for Mrs. Piper to have so minutely informed
herself about them.
Second Sitting, mt October nth.—Mention was made of an old friend whom
I had lost sight of for a long time, last hearing of him in a mining camp in
Southern California. He ("Dr. Phinuit ") suddenly said: "You will hear
in a few months from Lennox—you call him 'Frank.' He is doing well and
is prosperous." On my asking where he was, if still in California, he said,
" No," but had "gone across water to Al—Aul—Aula—how you call that ?"
128 Mr. JR. Hodgson.
I suggested " Australia," which seemed to puzzle the good "Doctor" for he
doubted the name, hesitated, but finally said, "Yes, Australia." Within a
year afterwards I received very unexpectedly a letter from this friend, then
in Florida, saying that he had been mining in Alaska and mot with some
success and was at the moment of writing doing better than ever before. At
this sitting the "Doctor" told me of my niece being frequently "in my
surroundings," and that she was then at my side. Up to this time I had not
heard my name mentioned so I asked of it from my niece. The " Doctor " was
again puzzled and said, " What a funny name—wait, I cannot go so fast ! "
Then my entire name was correctly spelled out but entirely with the French
alphabet, each separate, lotter being clearly pronounced in that language.
My niece had been born, livod most of her short life, and died in France.
Then the attempt to pronounce my name was amusing—finally calling me
"Thames Rowghearce Reach." The " Doctor " never called me after that
anything but " Reach." I speak hereof the pronunciation of my name as
I will later on refer to it again. Was told of the arrival in this country of my
paternal ancestors from Scotland in the middle of the last century, and the
family name was correctly given as Richie, but I have not as yet verified the
accounts of then- settling here as the "Doctor" gave me, and which differ
much from family traditions. On placing in Mrs. Piper's hands the marriage
register of my grandfather, she gave a very minute description of it, although
she could not possibly have seen it or its contents. Phinuit said there were
lots of people's names—it was a marriage—a blood-relation—my grandfather
and grandmother. This was all correct ; the certificate was of a Quaker
marriage, and signed by a large number of persons.
Novetnber 6th, 1888.—My sitting on this date was quite remarkable. A
friend's sister had met with a loss by fire, and wished to see what could be
done towards tracing the incendiary. This lady had a habit of colouring or
bleaching her hair, of which she had sent a lock as a test. "Dr.
Phinuit" at first refused to touch the hair, saying that it was "dead and
devilish!" As I knew nothing whatever of the persons connected with the
fire, I noted down the descriptions given, which tallied perfectly with that of
the parties suspected, as I afterwards learned. At this sitting a remarkable
incident happened. Breaking into the run of conversation, the "Doctor" of
a sudden said, "Hullo, here's Newell ! " (mentioning the name of a friend
who had died some months before). " Newell " is a substitute for the real
name. I should add that "Newell " had frequently purported to com
municate directly with his mother through Mrs. Piper at previous sittings,
but this was the first time that any intimation of his presence was given to
me. I was totally unprepared for this, and said, " Who did you say?" Tho
name was repeated with a strong foreign accent, and in the familiar voice and
tone of the "Doctor." Then there seemed for a moment to be a mingling
of voices as if in dispute, followed by silence and heavy breathing of the
medium. All at once I was astonished to hear, in an entirely different tone
and in the purest English accent, " Well, of all persons under the sun,
Rogers Rich, what brought you here ? I'm glad to see you, old fellow ? How
is X and Y and Z, and all the boys at tho club ? " Some names were given
which I knew of, but their owners I had never met, and so reminded my
friend " Newell," who recalled that he followed me in college by some years
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 129
ami that all his acquaintances were younger than I. I remarked an odd
movement of the medium while under this influence ; she apparently was
twirling a moustache, a trick which my friend formerly practised much.
" Newell " also told me that his cousin was then visiting his brother, a fact
which I afterwards learned to be true.
December 3rd, 1888.—I had my fifth sitting with Mrs. Piper, but the result
was not remarkably interesting, being mostly devoted to family affairs and-
certain friends who were perfectly described. All this time I had been using
the medicines given me by the " Doctor," and generally with the best results.
At this sitting he changed the prescription.
December 29th, 1888.—This sitting, similar to my. last one, was interesting
in its relation to private family affairs, and some remarkable descriptions o
these.
January Sid, 1889.—My seventh sitting was amusing in one thing. I
had been following the treatment prescribed by the "Doctor," and had
prepared at my home the herbs, ifcc, according to his orders, as I thought.
But I found that the medicine had not the effect promised and so told him.
The answer was that it was my fault for " they were not properly prepared."
I assured him that they were, whereat he said that " that old nigger " (refer
ring to a respectable coloured cook in my employ at the time) '' had not followed
my directions, had used the wrong proportions, had forgotten to watch the
cooking, and was a fool any way ! " On inquiry I found this to be the fact,
for she had understood me to say a quart instead of a pint, and confessed to
having forgotten the mixture and allowed it to boil down but " thought it
wouldn't make any difference ! " I took a piece of embroidery made by a
sailor while abroad on a cruise and at once " An old, wizened-up man " came
to its influence. " Who is he ? " " Why, D.'s grandfather," giving me the
correct name of my friend but one by which I had never known him, but
which I only knew after an acquaintance of a year or more, he having
followed the sea, as usual with sailors, under an assumed name.
March 26th, 1889.—My eighth sitting. A test was given me by a friend
of which I knew nothing. The article was placed in cotton wool within a
box, wrapped in paper and tied with a string. The "Doctor" said he
" could see it," and described the object fairly well, but said that if I would
open the box he could tell just where it came from. I had no idea what was
in the box, and the box was not opened until I returned it to my friend. As
it was, he described well my friend X, who gave me the parcel ; then he
described his friend Y, who had given the article, the person who gave Y the
article from "far off over the sea," and explained certain characteristics of
these persons and their connection with my friend X. All of these descrip
tions, X afterwards told me, were correct, and the article which the "Doctor"
described as a " charm," and "glittering," proved to be a beautifully carved,
but not "glittering," button, latterly worn as a charm with a gold attach
ment, formerly in the possession of a noble Japanese family of great
antiquity, and surreptitiously taken from there by a visitor and brought to
this country. A lock of hair belonging to a friend who is quite noted for his.
amusing self-conceit was greeted with a laugh and recognised as belonging
to " Hi» Royal Highness," or the " Duke B," calling him by his real name
and attaching the titles by way of " chaff."
K
130 Mr. R. Hodgson.
Some prophecies were made to " occur soon," but I regret to say that the
' ' Doctor's " idea of '' soonness " and mine differ greatly—for they are not yet
fulfilled.
June 3rd, 1889.—My ninth sitting. This time I asked to communicate
with my friend " Newell," previously referred to in my fourth sitting. The
" Doctor " said, " I'll send for him," and kept on talking with me for a while.
Then he said, "Here's Newell, and he wants to talk with you 'Reach,' so
I'll go about my business whilst you are talking with him, and will come back
again later." Then followed a confusion of words, but I clearly heard the
voice of the " Doctor" saying: " Here, Newell, you come by the hands while
I go out by the feet," which apparently being accomplished in the proper
manner, my name was called clearly as " Rogers, old fellow ! " without a sign
of accent, and the same questions put as to how were the "fellows at the
club." My hand was cordially shaken, and I remarked the same movement
of twisting the moustache, which was kept up by Mrs. Piper during the inter
view. " Newell " spoke of a "pastel" which I was drawing as a wedding
present, and described the pleasure he had in watching me do it. He told
me of certain private family affairs which I knew to be correct. Finally he
bade me good-bye. Before going he spoke to me of his " present life," and
told me that he was writing a poem ; that he was now pursuing his literary
studies with the greatest pleasure, &c, &c. "But," he said, "was I not
sick, and did I not suffer before I left you all ? Why, the leaving of the
material body, Rogers, is terrible. It is like tearing limb from limb ; but
once free, how happy one is." When "Newell" left me there was the usual
disturbance in the medium's condition, and then the resumption of the
amiliar voice, accent and mannerisms of Dr. Phinuit.
Then I produced a dog's collar. After some handling of it the " Doctor"
recognised it as belonging to a dog which I had once owned. I asked "If
there were dogs where he was?" "Thousands of them ! " and he said he
would try to attract the attention of my dog with this collar. In the midst
of our conversation he suddenly exclaimed, "There ! I think he knows you
are here, for I see [him] coming from away off ! " He then described my collie
perfectly, and said, " You call him, Reach," and I gave my whistle by which
I used to call him. "Here he comes ! Oh, how he jumps ! There he is now,
jumping upon and around you. So glad to see you ! Rover ! Rover ! No—
G-rover, Grover ! That's his name ! " The dog was once called Rover, but
his name was changed to Grover in 1884, in honour of the election of
Grover Cleveland.
July 12th, 1889.—My tenth sitting. This was of little interest outside
of certain affairs which the good " Doctor " talked about. I tried no tests
and had no experiences.
July 17th, 1889.—My eleventh sitting. The "Doctor" this time gave
me his full name, &c, as follows :—
" Dr. Jean Phinuit Scliville, 113 or 115, Rue Dupuytren, Paris. Ami
du Docteur Latimer." This was my last sitting with Mrs. Piper before she
went to England. It was again of little or no interest to report about.
Among other curious things told me by the " Doctor " was the following :
A child was constantly beside me and in my surroundings. It was attracted to
me and had much influence over me: "It is a blood relation, a sister." I
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 131
denied this to have ever been a fact for I never had a sister and never heard
of one. The answer came : " I know that, you were never told of it. The
birth was premature, the child dead, born some years before you were. Go
and ask your aunts to prove it." On questioning an aunt who had been
always a member of our family, I learned that such had been the case, and
that by the time I came into the world the affair had been forgotten and
there had never been a reason for informing me of the circumstances,
proving that I in no way had any intimation of it, and that this communica
tion could not be explained by thought-transference or the like.
Although the "prophecies" of the "Doctor "were not fulfilled at the
time I understood him to mean as "in the spring" or "in the fall," I have
since found several of these things come true, and in the season which he
mentioned, but not that year in which he led me to expect them to be
realised.
One day Mrs. Piper pointed to a plain gold ring on my finger and said :
" C'est une alliance, how you call that ? A wedding ring, n'est-ce pas ?" This
was true. Now if Mrs. Piper had learned French at school here she would
most probably have called this ring " un anneau de marriage," and not have
given it the technical name "alliance." I several times carried on a short
conversation in French, making my observations in that language and
receiving answers in the same, but which were always curt, and ended with
an expressed wish in broken English not "to bodder about French but to
speak in English." I made use, too, of certain slang expressions which were
apparently perfectly understood but answered in English, though correctly.
J. Rogers Rich.
167, Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.
April Uth, 1891.
41. R. Hodgson. Locks of Hair.
I knew nothing concerning the first five locks of hair, but did know
from whom the hair came in the sixth case. The first five cases were
complete failures. In the sixth case perhaps there is no more than can
be accounted for by chance. I did not know to whom the hair sent to
me in the seventh case belonged. It was sent to me from Albany,
N.Y., wrapped, at my request, in rubber cloth. I took it out of the
cloth before giving it to Phinuit, and saw that it was white.
1-5. Locks of hair sent from England, tried in March, 1888. Complete
failures. While holding lock 5 Phinuit said : " Here's a spirit named
J . Something very sad about it. And I can see two little boys and
a girl here, and there's a person named Alice in the family." [This apparently
independent of the hair. The name mentioned was the same as that in my
second sitting. See p. 62.]
6. June 27th, 1888.—Mother in spirit. [No.] Friend in her family
named Joe. [No.] Sister got married, and very unhappy life. [No.] Good
deal of intellect. Had some pain in right breast, and I think up through
this (right) jaw. [Left side.] There's four in her family, an elderly lady
rather stout, looks like a mother-in-law. [Yes, yes.] Charles, uncle of hers.
K 2
132 Mr. R. Hodgson.
[No.] Very nice lady, but set as the hills. Plenty of determination, will,
intellect, and good sense. Morally, all right. Open, frank, sincere, true.
[The preceding notes in this case were made by the lady herself, now dead.
The description of her character, so far as it goes, I think, is correct. I
knew nothing of the other circumstances mentioned.—R.H.]
7. June 10th, 1891.—There's been a friend passed out of the body.
There's an elderly gentleman connected with this. Oh, and he's such a nice
old fellow ! And I get John right off with this. There's somebody—Adams.
Oh, I get such a pain in my head. Take that away quick. [Giving the hair
back to me.] There's a relative of the old gentleman whose hair that is, who's
insane. [Taking hair again.] He had trouble with his heart and throat.
He couldn't hear very well. He has a daughter in the body who was very
much devoted to him. Henry—still in the body. I'll have to take this
another time. John calls for Henry and says : " Don't worry about Charles.
Let him take his own course and all will be right. Don't oppose. He'll be
better for the journey." That's not been passed out so very long. He was.
very fond of music.
June 23rii, 1891.—Oh, this is the elderly gentleman, John, that I told you
of. There's somebody named Carter connected with this. There's very little
influence in this. It's nearly gone. It belongs to somebody who has passed
out of the body.
[Mrs. S., who sent me the hair, writes as follows :—" Yes. The friend has
passed out of the body. He was an old man of 90, and a remarkably
genial, lovable man. John is not right. The old gentleman's name was
William, and John is not a family name. Nor is the name of Adams right ;
no such name that we know of. There is a relative of the old gentleman who
has a disease at present that makes her delirious much of the time, but there's
no insanity anywhere in the family. He died of heart failure and had a lung
and throat trouble. Yes, he was very deaf. Yes, he has a daughter living
who was exceedingly devoted to him. All that about Henry, and John calling
for Henry, and what he says has nothing to do with the old gentleman, but
" not been passed out so very long " is true. The old gentleman died only
the middle of last April. Yes, he was very fond of music. On the second
date, June 23rd, there is almost nothing. John is not the right name, nor
is there any such name as Carter connected with the family. The old
gentleman was my grandfather, who died only two months ago. Some of the
things were strikingly true. He was deaf, fond of music, and had this one
daughter (my mother) who was passionately devoted to him."]
The remaining records are of sittings given by Mrs. Piper since her
return from England. (See also last part of No. 41.) The greater part of
eight sittings between May 15th and June 25th inclusive was occupied
by endeavours to obtain definite information concerning some articles fur
nished to me by a gentleman, whom I shall call for the present Mr. " V."
I reserve these for later publication, partly because I wish to make some
further experiments in connection with the matters involved in the
articles, and partly because I wish to ascertain the result of further
inquiries concerning the statements already made.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 133
42. Sitting on December 4th, 1890.
The first sitting given by Mrs. Piper since her return (February,
1890) to America was in the presence of her physician and Professor
William James and a stenographic reporter. Unfortunately, as I have
already mentioned (see p. 5), her physician has refused to make any
report whatever. An incident, however, occurred at the sitting having
reference to some relations of Professor James, and I give the account
of it here, with additional statements in explanation.
[Extracts from stenographic report of sitting.]
P. : You are not the captain. You are William. I know you ; you are
James. I am glad to see you. Do you know the—the—the—little one ? J. :
Which little one ? P. : A little one, Eliza. [Makes several attempts to
pronounce the name ; then pronounces it correctly.] It is a little one in the
spirit. Do you know a father named William ? J. : Of course I do ; but
what William 1 P. : He is what you call the papa. That little one that
talked to me. J. : Does she talk to you, Eliza ? P. : She has got the
remembrance of her papa ; do you know what I mean ? J. : Yes. P. : The
last one she remembers is papa. She wants him to [Takes watch and
other articles out of Mr. James's pocket. Gets knife and holds it up to head ;
fumbles it with fingers.] J. : You want to open that ? [No answer ; makes
motion of drawing it away.] P. : William 1 J. : Yes. P. : The last thing
that the little one remembers is the knife ; the knife ; her papa opened the
knife. She asked him to open the knife. That is the last thing she says she
remembers. J. : What did she die of ? P. : [Taking hold of J.'s necktie.]
Diphtheria. She got that of a lady. A lady came into the place that had a
trunk. You know trunk ? Some clothes that had been tending the lady.
J. ; I see ; correct. P. : She tells me and your mother tells me that. J. :
Is my mother with Eliza ? P. : She has got her, Emily. J. : Whose knife
is this that you are holding ? P. : This knife is not the one.
*****
P. : William, do you know what I mean ? You know what Eliza said ?
That is the name, Eliza. J. : Who is that the name of ? P. : That is the
name of the one I was talking about. That is the little child.
*****
P. : Where is the knife ? [J. hands knife.] P. : William, I want to ask you
if you know this little one is very small ? Will you find out what she means
by the knife ? J. : I will. P. : She says something about William—that is
papa—to open the knife. J. : Does she want him to open it now or does she
say that she did ? P. : She wanted him to open it, I believe ; I can't tell you
exactly ; that is the last thing she remembers. Do you know anything about
it ? J. : No, I don't know anything about it. P. : He took her up the last,
do you know, and put her back again. J. : Can she tell him anything about
where she now is or who with ? P. : She is with—do you know his sister ?
J. : No, I don't. P. : Don't know Mary ? J. : No. P. : Don't know Lizzie,
L—I—Z—Z—I—E ? There are two or three and she is with them.
*****
P. : Will you tell Mary that it is the lady's clothes ? J. : I will. P. !
134 Mr. R. Hodgson.
Will you tell William that Eliza says she caught her diphtheria from the
lady's clothes ? J. : That is right.
[I think there was another slight reference to this matter, but not
important.]
[A. M. R., Stenographer.]
[Addressed to me. Dictated by W. M. Salter to his wife.—W.J.]
516, North-avenue, Chicago, December 9th, 1890.
Dear William,—-We are greatly obliged for the account of the sitting
with Mrs. Piper. Baby Eliza did play with my knife, and asked me to open
it but a short time before she died—indeed, it was the last show of intelligence
that I distinctly remember. I have told this incident to many people, and
the whole question is whether in any way it could have got to Mrs. Piper.
Margaret thinks she did not tell her, but she is not absolutely sure. If Mrs.
Piper had not heard of it in any way it is certainly remarkable.
[From Mr. W. M. Salter.]
Chicago, December 17th, 1890.
Dear William,—Mrs. Piper stumbled (with my assistance) on to my
sister Mary's name a year ago in Chocorua. The first name she used then
was " Lizzie, " and who was meant I could not say. I have a living aunt whose
middle name is Elizabeth, but she is never called Lizzie. " Emily " I do not
recognise at all—have never known or heard of an Emily in our family. If I
could only bo sure Mtrgaret had not told Mm. Piper of the knife incident !
Wm. Salter.
[From Mrs. W. M. Salter.]
Chicago, December 17th, 1890.
Dear William,—We were very glad to get your letter with the steno
graphic report of the Piper interview. I hope that you will not object to our
keeping it. I am ready to swear, if necessary, that I did not tell Mrs. Piper
of the knife incident when I went to see her last October with mother. I
recall clearly the whole interview. And, indeed, my baby's illness is some
thing I can speak of to no one. Time for me only adds to its pathos.
*****
Mary G. Salter.
P.S.—I think there is small chance of Margaret's having told Mrs. Piper
the incident of the knife. She says that her first impulse was to deny
absolutely having done so. Almost the whole interview was taken up with
Mrs. Piper's account of her English experiences. Towards the close she
referred to Baby's death. Because Margie cannot remember just what she
said she is unable to positively assert anything in regard to it.—Yours,
M. G. S.
[Statement by Professor James.]
It seems unlikely that so interesting an incident as that of the knife could
have been mentioned to Mrs. P. by Margaret G. in the few minutes' talk
which she could have had about the death of "Eliza." It was more likely to
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 135
have been mentioned to me, but if so, it has sunk to an unrecoverable part
of my consciousness.
Mrs. P. saw "Eliza" when at Chocorua in 1889. She saw Margaret once,
soon after her return from England, and Mary Salter and Mrs. Gibbens
together once, in October last.
[W. J.]
[Statement by Mrs. Piper.]
December 22nd, 1890.
Mrs. Piper states that neither Mrs. Gibbens nor Mrs. Salter nor Miss
Gibbens said anything whatever to her concerning any knife incident in
connection with Eliza. Mrs. Salter made one reference only to Eliza during
her conversation in the fall, viz. : " I thought I might get a word from Baby."
This impressed Mr3. Piper because Mrs. Salter was much affected when she
made this remark. Miss Gibbens on a prior visit talked more freely about
Eliza and the grief which Mrs. Salter felt, but said no more about the details
of the death than Mrs. Piper had learned in England from Mr. Clarke, who
had told her that the child was dead and that the cause of death was
diphtheria. Mrs. Piper is not quite sure whether he said diphtheria or
scarlet fever.
[R. H.]
Mrs. Salter writes on December 27th, 1890 :—
When I saw Mrs. Piper she talked almost exclusively about her own
affairs. I merely referred to my child's death when I asked her for a sitting,
otherwise I said nothing about it.
43. Miss Edmunds. June 1st, 1891.
[From notes made during the sitting by Miss Edmunds.]
[Mrs. Piper knew my name ; that I was English; had seen me at the office
of the S.P.R. ; and, during the conversation we had before the sitting, I had
made a passing allusion to a nephew ; beyond these facts I think that she
knew nothing of me. (This nephew was not alluded to during the sitting.)
The following account is an abridgment.]
Phinuit stated that I had a father in spirit and mother in body,
describing some characteristics of each one. . . . John—no, Joseph—
Joseph. [Father and mother each had a brother named Joseph, both
deceased.] There's one, two, three, four brothers. [True.] One, two
passed out—little things—with their father—that's all there was of you
passed out. [True.] James. [Pause.] James. [Emphatically, and writes the
name on my pad.] (I don't know any one in the family of that name.)
Yes, you do, I know—James in body, married your aunt. (Oh, Uncle
Henry.) [James Henry Thomas, whom we have always called " Uncle
Henry." But father used to call him "James Henry."] There's a little
one, came after he [father] passed out. [True.] Al—Alice, another little
girl. (Not Alice.) [Forgetting for the moment that Lillie's name is Alice
Lilian, and that my brother usually calls her Alice and writes to her as such.]
Yes, Alice. You call her Lil, but she's Alice! [Phinuit enumerated the
girls in the family correctly, giving the name " Ethel, musical," and stating
that one was in Australia, summing up :] There's yourself, one married,
136 Mr. R. Hodgson.
one in Australia, one that studies, one that paints, and the two little ones.
[My older brother was wrongly said to be married. Ellen, the name of a
little sister who died in infancy, was referred to as sending a message, and
as being " a big girl now." Mary was mentioned and " Aunt Ellen." Mary
and Ellen were great aunts.]
[Here Phinuit made a sudden dart at my watchcord, and I thought of his
"scent for trinkets " as he pulled out a heart-shaped locket made of the ser
pentine rocks at the Land's End, which had been in my possession since a
child.] Ha ! You had that a long time, since you little girl—rock—sea
washed over that. Your mother's influence comes with that—no, your
mother's mother—your grandmother. [True.] [Takes the watch from
the other end of the cord.] School watch f No, you iuit had that so
long as this. [Holding up the locket.] Ask me something else—I'll
tell you about the watch presently. [Pause.] No, your father knows
that,—se«, I hold it up and he say, "Oh, I know that." [Phinuit
holds up the watch as if to show it to some invisible person behind him.]
He gave it to your aunt, and she gave it to you. [True.] Box, oh, box,
he knows that ! [I had token from my pocket a little round black box
which father used to keep in his desk, full of old coins.] (What was in
it?) [It was then empty.] Oh, I'll tell you presently. I can't hear what
he says. [Looking over his shoulder as though listening to someone behind
him, while I mentally said, "Coins, coins," and formed a distinct picture
of them in my mind.] Picture, where's picture f [Working his finger round
a hole in the lid where I believe at one time was a picture under glass.]
But you don't know. He does.
* . * * * *
Little shiny things in box. (Chain ?) No. (Coins ?) Coins, yes, coins,
coins, I knew ! [Other names given were Uncle William (correct), Fred and
Albert (both brothers), Jessie (sister), Carlotte (Charlotte, sister), "named
for a relative on mother's side " (correct), Margaret (unrecognised), Edith
(married sister), Fred her husband (correct), with further correct descriptions
of character, &c.]
L. Edmunds.
July 1st, 1891. (See also No. 50, p. 154.) [Mrs. Holmes present.
L. E. taking notes.]
*****
[Once Phinuit turned to me with :] How's Catherine ? (Who is Catherine ?)
You know—your sister—the one whose name I did not give you last time.
[I had not mentioned to Phinuit that he had omitted to give the name of one
sister, although I had made a note of the fact.] (I have no sister named
Catherine.) Yes, you have. (Not Catherine, but Kate.) It's Catherine,
that's what your father told me. (That's funny, for father disliked the name of
Catherine, and took special pains to register the name of my sister as Kate,
so that she should not be called Catherine.) Phinuit here looked a little
disconcerted, and mumbled, "Well, that's what he said."
[After another interval with Mrs. Holmes, Phinuit turned to me and said :]
You've got something here you want me to tell you about. I'll tell you
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 137
all about it. Hodgson gave me something with influence of yours, and I did
not tell him right—where is it ? Give it to me again. [I gave him the book
mark, and wondered how he knew that he had given wrong information about
it.] Yes, that's it. It's something to do with your sister Editha. (No, I do
not think she ever even saw it.) Well, you let me have it for a time,
and I'D tell you all about it. I'll put it in my hair.
This mark has something to do with school-friend. (No.) No, not
exactly that, but I see something about school about it. It's something
to do with somebody that was under you—someone that you had to teach.
There's an influence comes with it—a little girl—rather pretty. Light hair
and dark eyes—bright. You had something to do with teaching her. Nice
little girl. She seems to recognise this. She's passed out of the body. You
heard from her when she was ill. [All true.] There's another influence comes
with it—not her brother, but she was very fond of him. She called him cousin
—Gideon—he's in Australia. [It is not known where he is now.] He is
erratic, but he is doing well, physically [laying great stress on the last word].
He has not passed out. He will return. Ella—Elma—Emly—Elmly—Oh,
what is it ? Emily—no, Emma—Maria sends her love to Emma—do you
understand ? Maria sends her love to Emma, and says she is often with her.
Emma is not well —not at all well—not happy. [Maria was the little girl's
name ; Emma is the mother's name, and Gideon the name of her nephew,
whose whereabouts is not at present known.]
[Note by R. H.]
At a sitting on June 25th, I gave Phinuit the bookmark, which Miss
Edmunds had carefully wrapped up between two pieces of plain card. I
knew nothing of the history of the bookmark. My notes are as follow :—
"[Phinuit asks me to read it.] A little faint influence about the young
lady with you. Didn't she wrap them up ? (Yes, I think so.) Fleshy lady
connected with this in body. It was given to her mother as a bookmark.
This has been in some book like a Bible thing, and it looks like I get the
influence Margaret. There's also Edith. There's an influence here of a
lady that's fond of her brother— Miss Edmunds' brother. . . . This
hasn't so much of her influence as Edith's. I think Edith made it. (Is
Edith in the body ?) Oui. Isn't Miss Edmunds funny ? She's handled this,
hasn't she ? She put it there [indicating between cards], and I get all her
influences come back with it. This came across water originally. These
[cards] were handled more by her than this [mark], and the mark has been
handled more by the person who made it than by anybody else."
On my return from the sitting, Miss Edmunds informed me that the
statements about the bookmark itself were incorrect. I did not see Mrs.
Piper again until after the sitting of July 1st.
July 6th, 1891. (See also No. 61, p. 155.)
[At the sitting on July 6th, besides giving information concerning some
tests which I had brought with me, Phinuit gave messages "from father,"
and stated that :] Your mother has been having pains in her head. She's
gone from the place where I saw her first. [I was then myself under the
impression that mother was visiting my sister, but (October 2nd) I have just
Mr. R. Hodgson.
heard that she made that visit in September.] [Remarks about my sister
Ethel.] There are two children just alike in spirit—they were twins [true]—
with your father now. There are two Charlottes, sister and aunt. [True,
and Phinuit makes a prophecy concerning my sister Charlotte.] [Messages
to my brother Albert.] You are going to visit Albert soon. I see you in his
surroundings. There will be a change for him soon after that. [Then,
breaking off :] You take thus as a test from me—your mother has had a falL
She has slipped and hurt her foot. Now you remember that I said so.
[December, 1891.—My mother had no fall.] You are going into the
country and also near water—three different places. To the water with
a lady, Mrs. Holmes. I see you with her by the water. And you'll also go
to a country place where there are children and mountains—a mountainous
place—and you'll see your brother last of all. [October 2nd.—I had then
just received an invitation from Mrs. Hohues to spend a week with her at
the seaside, but I had not mentioned the fact either to Phinuit or Mrs.
Piper, and Mrs. Holmes said that she had not mentioned it. I also have
visited "the mountainous place where there were children," and am hoping
soon to visit my brother (as she did.—R.H.), but all these circumstances,
were previously known to me and I expected each event to happen
in the order which Phinuit described.] [Mention was also made in this
sitting of a younger brother, and his name given without effort—Martin.]
L. Edmunds.
44. Mrs. C. June 1901, 1891.
[Mrs. C. had a sitting alone with Mrs. Piper in 1889. Of this no record
was made. Little mention of her husband was made in that sitting, which
was chiefly occupied by the subject of her daughter's ill-health. Mrs. C.
lives in New York, and I believe that her name was unknown to Mrs. Piper.
I was sent out of the room early in the sitting, and could hear only frag
ments of the conversation after this. At the close of the sitting Mrs. C.
gave an account which I took down at the time. I abridge this account, and
embody the information since received from Mrs. C. The names mentioned
during the sitting have been changed to others in the record at the request
of Mrs. C. I made the appointments for both sittings.—R.H.]
[Re fountain pen.] This brings John in the spirit. John the son in body.
[Correct.] Phinuit described a little elderly lady, nervous, in my surround
ings, and said she wouldn't live long. This suggests my sister, who is never
in very good health. [An aunt living in New York, aged 76, not nervous,
death not anticipated for several years, began to fail about June 20th, and
died July 10th.]
He said I would get a letter from my brother very shortly. [Not true.]
He said there was a stick with a funny handle, marks on it, a walking-
stick, that belonged to an old gentleman, grandfather, my father, who had it
when in the body, and that he wanted me to have it, that Sit has it and that
I must ask for it. [The sister writes that there is a walking-stick used by
her father. It has not a ci*iok handle, but a knob.]
The names Anderson or Andrews and Flack were given [not recognised].
He kept feeling about me and said : "You have something about you belonging
to him " [my husband]. Felt my ring and said : "Oh, he gave you that many
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 13{>
years ago." After searching about and touching various objects, he said :
" You've got my watch." I took it out. He said : " Your husband says it's
his watch, but it's not his chain." This was correct. I had broken my own
watch about a month before, and since then have carried his watch, but had
taken off his chain and put my own chain on. Until the watch was men
tioned I had entirely forgotten that I had it.
Phinuit said that I had a bad time with my teeth a while ago, and that
my husband was with me [i.e., in spirit] when I had them extracted. I had
two teeth extracted under gas a month or six weeks ago.
References were made to a document, which made it clear that a cer
tain insurance paper was intended. This I was requested to publish, on
the ground that it would bo of benefit to myself and a satisfaction to my
husband who would then feel that justice was done. The circumstances
connected with this document, which are too private to be mentioned in this
report, concerned a matter which was of the most vital interest to my
husband. It is the very matter he would be most likely to speak of if he
were actually in communication with me. Some specific advice was given
about the publication of this document. [This advice proved upon inquiry
to be irrelevant.]
A correct statement was made about the unfortunate sale of some of my
property. Henry was correctly given as the first name of the man who
defrauded me.
A prophecy made that Mrs. C. would be out of her difficulties "when
snow came " was not fulfilled.
[NotebyR.H.]
[At a sitting on July 8th, Phinuit said : ] "John's lady feeling particularly
blue to-day. I think this is the day John passed out of the body. I hear
this from John himself."
Mrs. C. writes on July 10th :—
" Your note of the 8th is just received. I am sorry to say that Phinuit
is 'mixed' in his facts, as the date of my husband's death was June 18th, the
day before our sitting with Mrs. Piper. During the 8th, at the time you had
this sitting, I was not particularly 'blue,' and there was nothing unusually
depressing in any way, but I had a bad headache, and was feeling generally
tired and miserable ; but the condition was more physical than mental.
Sittings 46-50.
When I was in New York early in May, 1891, Mrs. Julia Sadler
Holmes, a member of our Society, gave me, at my request, two locks
of her hair for experiments with Mrs. Piper ; but I had not explained to
her that Phinuit prefers locks cut close to the head, and I found
later that these two pieces had been cut several inches away.
On May 21st, 1891, at the end of a sitting where Phinuit had been
describing the influences of other articles (sent to me by Mr. V.), I gave
him one of the two locks which I had first received from Mrs. Holmes.
Phinuit said : " I've seen this influence before. This came from across.
140 Mr. R. Hodgson.
the water. Relative of this person across the water. Her name spells
with an ' E.' (No.) The influences are all mixed." And he declined
.to do anything further with it.
Being aware that Miss R. was to have a sitting on May 23rd, I
placed the second of the two locks in a clean envelope, different from
those which I am in the habit of using, and requested Miss R. to give
it to Phinuit during the course of the sitting. She did so, and Phinuit
at once said that my influence was on the envelope, that the hair was
the "same influence" as that which I had recently given him, that he
got the name Esther with it, but that it had very little " influence "
alxnit it, and he wanted a " better " piece. During a sitting which I
had on May 25th, Phinuit referred to this incident, and repeated that he
wanted a " better " piece of hair, but did not mention the name Esther.
I wrote to Mrs. Holmes on the subject and requested her to send me
another lock of hair cut close to the head, and some article of dress,
such as a collar, which had come much in contact with the skin (Phinuit
claiming that such objects had "influence"), and she sent me a "veritable
scalp-lock," and a piece of ribbon which she had worn round her neck.
I gave these to Phinuit on June 5th. In this and in the two follow
ing sittings with the articles received from Mrs. Holmes, the notes were
taken by me during the sitting, and copies of them forwarded to Mrs.
Holmes. The remarks in square brackets (except where otherwise
specified) were either interpolated by Mrs. Holmes herself or incor
porated by me from her letters in answer to my inquiries.
45. Sitting on June 5th, 1891.
[Last part of sitting.]
Be Hair.
Ha ! that's in the body. That's the same influence I had before, but that's
& better piece. She's thinking about going away. [Yes.] She's had con
siderable sorrow. [Yes.] Lady relative of hers passed out in last year.
[Yes, Emma Holmes.] She's done a great deal of good. She's a nice lady,
a lady who has a great deal of firmness of character. She doesn't tell all her
sorrows to others. You ask her how Mrs. French is. [My mother has a
cousin Soph. French, or it may be Phinuit sees Mrs. French, the medium,
whose circles I have been attending recently.] And there's somebody con
nected with her by the name of Anna [Mrs. Holmes had recently made
the acquaintance, through me, of Dr. Anna Lukens. —R.H.], and James in the
body. There's a gentleman in her surroundings and he's kind of cranky.
[Yes.] His name is William. [No.] She's changed her home within a year
or two. [Yes.] She's a bright lady, mighty deep, though ; nervous, too ;
has some trouble with her stomach. [Yes.] She had something the matter
with her foot. [No, son's foot.] Had to have something done to it not
long since. Somebody connected with it by the name of Harris, and Fred.
{Yes, Harry and Fred.]
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 141.
Re Ribbon.
Same influence. Her hair is grey and black, mixed, and she dresses it
very prettily, and she goes near the water very often, and she writes some
times quite nicely. Lady's mother—Auntie called Eliza—Elzie—Eliza is not
right, but something like it. She wants to know about Mamie. [See next
sitting.—R.H.] Who's Cooper? Who's Miss Roberts ? And Miss Davis ?
A little sister passed out of the body quite a number of years ago. [Yes, a
sister died in babyhood. Recognise Cooper, Roberts, Davis. " Lady's:
mother " (mother-in-law) in spirit life is named Elizabeth. I know also a
lady, called "Aunt Eliza" in my childhood, aunt by marriage. She is still
living, however.]
[Further comments.]
[In the envelope which brought the "ribbon " and hair was enclosed a
letter from Mrs. Holmes's son, Harry, in which he refers to the cutting of
his foot accidentally, and its being "fixed up " by a doctor. This letter is
dated May 9th, 1891.—R.H.] [His letter (Harry's) was brought to me front
New York by my son Fred. It was sent originally to the man who is
" cranky," who forwarded it from B. The cranky man is associated with a
geologist named Davis, who located some lead and silver mines near B. and
then ran off with the secret. We have been quite excited with this Davis,
who has now returned to B. Mrs. Piper caught all this from Harry's
letter, which had probably been carried in the cranky man's pocket. The
only mistake she made was in the colour of my hair—it was never black, but
shaded from a brown to a gold. Curiously, what she handled she could
not see, and the cut foot in Montana was shown to her as mine. Possibly
because this son Harry (not Harris) is nearer to me than any other living;
thing.
*****
Closely connected with this Southern business is one James Boberts, a,
friend of the K family. Fortunes hang upon his honesty and ability. I
think the Miss Roberts and the Miss Davis are undoubtedly these two
gentlemen. The Coopers are all related, and associated socially and
financially with James Roberts, the K 's, and the "cranky" man.]
46. Sitting on June 10th, 1891.
Re Hair and Ribbon.
There's somebody connected with this named Vaughn. [Yes.] And
Mamie. [About that Vatu/hn. He committed suicide. ... If the
name were Manie, it would fit the situation just now, as the Manie K.
(sister-in-law to my daughter) ... is constantly on our lips.]
Re Strip of Velvet. [Since the previous sitting I had received from Mrs.
Holmes a strip of velvet which she had worn.]
Same influence. She lives out a little way. [Mrs. Holmes lives in a
suburb of New York.] There's a big vine [No, a tree in blossom] round the
end of the house where she is, on the right as you go in. She's a very nice
lady. Who's Emily ? [My sister who died in babyhood.] (I don't know.)
Well, she knows who sho is. . . . She's got a mother, a father, and a
142 Mr. R. Hodgson.
brother in spirit. [Yes. Not mother, but mother-in-law.] Either tho
father or the brother is named William. [It's the brother. His name was
William Henry Harrison Sadler. I generally called him Henrg.] There's
.somebody named French connected with her. [Yes.] She takes me to New
York. [Yes.] (How do you know it's New York ?) I can see N. Y. I see
a desk, and a piece of statuary stands at the end of the desk, and I see a
letter on it with N. Y. at the top. [The desk had ornaments, but no statue.
There are two bronze statues, however, on a bookcase near.] The letter
begins : " My dear Lucy." She has a friend named Jones. [Yes. Who
hasn't?] . . .' Emerson. [Not recognised.] You ask her if she didn't
have an aunt named Caroline or Katherine in spirit. [Yes, we called her
Auntie Mason.] [See Notes to next Sittings, No. 47.—R.H.] And there's
Doctor Somebody here. (Who ? Can you get his name ?) [Doctor un
known.] It's in the surroundings of a doctor. I think this lady had a sister
who went across the water some time ago. I don't think you know this.
[No, I went myself.] ... I see a letter on the desk :—
June 2, 1891.
My Dear Lucy,—
Will go to-morrow evening
if possible. In case you do not hear
come round.
[I did not write this in the letter, but said these very words to her next day,
or nearly.] (Can you see how it's signed ? ) I'm trying to. The last letter
is "s." (That's right.) [I was thinking of the last letter of the name
Holmes.—R.H.] [Here Phinuit tried to write the initials. His attempts
show two separate capital S's, another doubtful capital S, a scrawl like a
capital U, two initials together like LS, then three initials together, the first
of which might be L or J or Q, the second of which might be S or G, and
the third of which is most like S.—R.H.] Signed by initials. Looks like
A. R. S. You know she's got three names. (That's right.) Looks like "L"
or "J." (Is that the first or last or the middle one 1 ) The first. I'll get
more another time. [When Mrs. Holmes signs " initials," her J is as much
like an L as it is like a J.—R.H.] [Lucy H. wrote me, June 1st, to meet
her and go to H. the next Sunday. June 1st, I wrote her to visit me ; our
letters crossed. Friday, June 5th, I called upon her, saying, " Will you go
to Gilmore's concert with me to-morrow evening ? In case you do not hear
to the contrary, expect me about 5 p.m. Saturday. I will come round for you,
take you to the concert, and then home with me for Sunday. I did not
address her as " My dear Lucy," but did sign my initials to a postal card,
sent another mail, J. S. H.]
47. Sitting on June 15th, 1891.
[Mrs. Holmss understood that I was to try to get information from
Phinuit, during the sitting, of her doings 11.30—12.30.]
lie Glove, Mrs. Holmes.
Who's Ella ? [See below.] I've seen this influence before. Somebody's
sweetheart. You handed ma some influence like this before. Give me the
piece that goes with it. I saw the 'date with this, you know. N.Y.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 143
(That's right.) This lady's been across the water. [Yes, once only, to England.]
Been across two or three times. Spent much time in Paris. [Ella has. I
have never been on the Continent.]
Be Velvet as well, also Hair and Bibbon.
This [velvet] is a bonnet tie. Nice generous bit of hair, this is. Cut
right close to the head. Dersyer, I see that written. [Unrecognised by me.]
She has a large blue vase that was given to her by an elderly gentleman and
lady across the water. [No, but we have two Bolton vases brought from
Ireland, by Miss Maggie K.] Ask her if she knows anybody named Sweat.
[Yes, Frances Sweat, sister of my aunt Louisa, died many years ago.]
. . . You know you have to go up steps to get into her house. There's
a little thing in front that you swing in. (Hammock ? ) Yes, hammock.
[Baby's swing on side piazza. Hammock is in garden.] There's a chair
-with a crooked back. [No.] A funny back that throws back with a spring.
[We have a velvet chair in New York that falls back with a rod—too big
for this cottage.] There is a young lady with very dark hair sitting
therein this minute. (About 11.66 a.m., June 15th, 1891.) [Do not know.]
12 Noon.—The elderly lady has a parcel, a square package, looks like a
book, in her hand. She's been reading, and she's just arranged something
on her head. It looks like a little wrap she's thrown over her head. The lady
herself has gone to speak to the younger lady, and she has on a dark dress
with little light spots in it. [Wrong, but see Mrs. H.'s letter concerning the
dress.—R.H.] . . . She has a friend that she's very fond of, named
Ella or Ellen. [Eleanor B., commonly called Ella.] How do you spell that 1
That's her name—S—T—R, S—T—A—. [Gives it up, apparently.—R.H.]
She knows who Louise is, Louise in spirit. [I have Aunt Louise in the body.]
(What is she doing ?) [I explained about appointment from 11.30 to 12.30.
—R.H.] She came mighty near forgetting it. [No, I thought very much
about it.]
12.15.—She looks as if she's putting some flowers in a vase. [Yes, I was.]
She trims and puts them in that. [Yes, pulled out dead ferns and placed
-vase on desk.] Since I saw her influence the other day [Wednesday,
June 10th.—R.H.] she has been having the pillows changed in the room
where she sleeps, and some things changed in the bed [Yes, bed broke
down—new post put in], and she's been having something put up over the
window. [Yes.] Do you know her girl 1 (Her daughter 1) Yes. (Yes, I
know her.) She's a nice girl. . . . Her daughter has a friend who's
going to be married right away. [Yes, we guess so.] (A lady?) Oui. The
last part of her name ends in son, doesn't it? (No.) Last part of her first
name ? (No.) She has three names. Eliza comes with this (velvet) and
she's in the body. [Yes, "Aunt Eliza," sister of Albert's mother.] [See
below.—R.H.]
12.22.—Now she's doing something to a picture—the mother, who is
still in the body—I think there's something the matter with her teeth.
[My notes are not clear as to whether this statement was about Mrs. Holmes
or her mother, but my impression during the sitting was, I believe, that it
referred to the mother of Mrs. Holmes, viz., Mrs. Sadler, who writes on
Dec. 4th, 1891 : " I cannot remember toothache on June 15th, 1891. Have
144 Mr. R. Hodgson.
had general trouble with my teeth all the year."—R.H.] [Yes, lost gold out
of my back tooth yesterday.] [Phinuit asked at beginning of sitting if he
wasn't right about the mother, father, and brother being in spirit. I said
that the mother-in-law was in spirit.—B.H.] I hear the name of William
Henry, who's called Henry. [At beginning of sitting Phinuit asked me if
William wasn't the name of the brother. I said that the lady recognised
that, although she didn't at first.—R.H.] Did you ever see her paint?
(No.) [My daughter is an artist.] She's doing something with a brush.
Now she's dropped that—she sits down at desk to write. Charles is on the
page in front of her. [7 sat at desk to write, not my daughter.] [The above
remarks, including the painting, were applied by Phinuit to Mrs. Holmes.—
R.H.]
12.25.—Now I see her go to the window and speak to a man, short, kind
of stout. [Yes, the butcher.] She reaches up and pulls something down.
[I opened blind for more light and arranged curtain.] She's gone back to
sit down again, at the desk. [Yes.] I hear "Caroline, aunt, passed away
with stomach and heart trouble, recognises this influence." [Yes. A dear
friend, Aunt Caroline Mason—Katherine was her sister-in-law, also called by
me Aunt Kate.] She seems to be writing. [Yes, I was writing with plan
chette.] Albert—cousin, a wandering sort of fellow, something to do with
soldiers, fighting. Old-fashioned picture of him taken some years ago.
[Yes, on a hobby-horse.] He doesn't know whether she or his mother, her
aunt, has the photo. [Aunt Eliza has it.] He was very fond of shooting.
[Yes, but Albert is alive.] Maria. A relative on her husband's side.
[Maria Holmes, but on my mother's side, wife of her brother. I am
named Julia Maria from this aunt.]
12.30.—She's got a whole box of things. She's pawing them over for all
she's worth. [I was.] You ask her for another piece of fresh hair, cut
close, but I don't want to rob her head.
[Further comments.]
I have a small steamer trunk in my bedroom, full of MSS., &c. About 12
noon I ran up to this trunk after a red pencil. At 11.30, June 15th, I sat down
to my writing-desk in bay window to write with planchette. Noticing some
flowers fading in glass dish on the desk, I stopped to pull out dead ferns and
rearrange the daisies. On the paper under planchette was the name Charles,
which Lucy Hothersall had partially written last week, Sunday. (No, I never
spoke to her of Mrs. Piper or our experiments.) It was very hot, and plan
chette was evidently wilted. He, she, or it. did manage, however, to spell
out Phinuit once or twice, with a very squeaky pencil, which rasped me
so, I threw it away, and got the new red one from " box of things " upstairs.
Strange Phinuit, in second sitting, should have given " Caroline and
Katherine " together. They were sisters-in-law. I always called them Aunt,
though neither were related by blood. Caroline Mason's daughter, Emma,
married my mother's nephew, Edgar Holmes. We were intimate from-
childhood, and I never knew any difference between my own aunt, Maria
Holmes, Edgar's mother, and "Auntie Mason," Emma's mother. Albert
Holmes is Edgar's cousin and mine. Albert's Aunt Eliza, his mother's sister,
adopted him on the death of his mother, Susan, and we cousins always called
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 145
her Aunt Eliza. She is now living, and Albert has always lived with her,
except when he wanders away ; he is rather of n roving disposition.
Catherine Mason Curtis, Emma's aunt, is principal of Livingston Park
Seminary. Emma and I were educated there and called her Aunt Kate. These
may be prosy details to you, but they are important as proofs of Phinuit's
power.
*****
I have a dark blue dress with small white spots, but I did not wear it at
all on June 15th. The hammock is only a few yards from the parlour bay
window, swinging from a pear and cedar tree, around which twines a grape
vine, forming a natural arbour. It is out of sight of the piazza with the
wooden swing, on the opposite side of the house, in the garden. There are
three steps leading up to the side piazza where swing is, and it is the first
thing one would naturally nofcice coming from the depjt. There are also
three steps loading to front piazza, where you sat sneezing that cold night,
but no hammock or swing in view from that.
During the two weoks footboard was in city being mended we put pillows,
out on grass and looked them over. We did this twice.
The something over windows was curtains. We put up a new set in the
sitting-room downstairs. This room has an antique oak folding bed, too
large to he got upstairs, and I slept here all winter, but my bedroom is really
the one above, where mahogmy bed is. I had it at first and moved back
there this spring. This is why Phinuit speaks of them both as "my room."
The curtains were too long. My daughter arranged the extra length in it
Itimhreq,nn drapery over the top, which I afterward rearranged to suit my
self. . . . We did this about June 1st.
I cannot remember the exact second when I fixed blind and flowers, or
s|ioke to butcher—will take the watch next time. They all occurred within
the hour, at intervals of fifteen or twenty minutes. I went to box of things,
about noon, in the middle of experiment.
I think Auntie Mason died with stomach and heart trouble. Was sick
a long time, up and down.
Julia Holmes.
Mrs. H. writes on June 21st, 1891 :—
At 12.30, June 15th, I went upstairs, changed morning dress for street
costume, opened trunk, searched among your letters for address of
Dr. Lukens, and took the 1 p.m. train for New York. I was at the trunk
about 12.40. J. S. H.
At this stage I acquainted Professor Bowditch with the circum
stances of the previous experiments, and arranged with him that Mrs,
Holmes should write down, at the time, accounts of her doings between
11.15 and 12.30 on the mornings of June 23rd and 24th, sign them
a.id obtain her daughter's signature, and post them immediately to
Professor Bowditch. Similarly, I was to send at once to Professoi-
Bowditch my notes taken during the sitting. This programme was
carried out, but it will be seen from the reports that there is practically
no correspondence between Phinuit's descriptions and the notes made
L
14G Mr. R- Hodgson.
by Mrs. Holmes during the time of the experiment. A few days later
I sent the notes of the sittings to Mrs. Holmes, requesting her to
comment upon the statements made by Phinuit, and to specify whether
Phinuit's descriptions given during the hour of experiment appeared to
be correct pictures of incidents which had happened at other times.
48. Sitting ou June 23rd, 189l.
[R.H. taking notes.] (Entranced 11.25 a.m.)
1. 11.30.—[It. H. gives Phinuit a fresh lock of hair in piece of muslin
fabric, which Phinuit than sep:tr.,tcs.] That's the same lady. That's our
friend in New York. (Right. I want you to toll me what's she's doing.)
2. 11.35.—Just at this very minute she's reading. She's got a book,
looking in it. I get the name Elizabeth. (How do you get it ! ) I can hear
it. And there's somebody connected with her, named Alice.
3. 11.37.—She's laid the book in a chair. She goes to a mirror and she's
doing something to her front hair. You know how she wears it, with funny
things here—frizzelettes. She's tidying them up a little.
31. 11.40.— Now I see her walking to and fro, to and fro, to and fro,
&c.
11.41.- Whose little child is that? (Can't yim tell me?) I think it's
her grandchild. Looks like a boy. She's stopped and spoke to him,
stopped the pacing to and fro, you know.
4. 11.42.—Now it looks as if she was showing him some pictures. (In a
book ?) Looks like pictures of persons, you know. (Portraits !) Things
like that.
5. 11.44. —Now she goes to the desk, now gone back to the chair ; takes
up book, folds it and puts on a shelf high up. Now she goes to the desk, and
has seated herself.
0. 11.45. - She says : " Oh, how strange ! " W—I—L—L—I—A—M
and there's something about wafer, W—A—T—E —It. I don't know what
that is. (Do y-ou see those words written ? ) I do.
7. She leaves that—she's going upstairs. She goes to the room to her
right. She turns in, she takes up a garment off the cot and brushes it. She's
got a little cold. Now I see her go to a closet- she stands a minute.
11.47.—Oh, she's hanging up this garment, smoothing it down, and she's
closed the door. (Of the closet ? ) Of the closet.
8. She isn't feeling just well, she's got a slight headache. She's now
arranging something here [touching me down the buttons of waistcoat].
Fastening it. [Front of dress, apparently.]
9. 11.50.—Now the lady that I saw before [at previous sitting] goes and
speaks to her and calls " Mother." The lady [mother] leaves the apartment
and is going down again. The one that's calling looks as if she was going out
side with something in her hand and watering the (lowers. The elderly lady
goes to the door and is speaking to her while she's doing that.
10. She's got on a dark garment with stripes, stripes. Now I see her
I I Iking to a kind of a stout person—looks like a servant. (A woman ? ) Qui.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 147
She's turned back from the doorway more into the passage-room. The
woman leans over the railing [from upstairs] and asks her about the gar
ment which she [the servant] has in her hand. The lady tells her she had
better put it on the line.
11. 11.57.—The servant has disappeared. She goes to the back part of
the building. A lady in black comes in, dressed in—like mourning ; a caller.
She [subject of experiment] takes from a little stand in the room a photograph
sind shows it to the lady [caller]. The photograph is of another lady at a
distance. She wants to know if she doesn't think it's good. She's now in
general conversation with the lady. I'll have to wait till she changes that.
The lady who has called has a little black thing in her hand, looks like an
umbrella.
12.3.—[Here Phinuit explains that the spirit William is telling him some
things, that other things he sees himself.]
12.5.—I'm sorry she's got this tickling sensation in her throat. She does
this, h—m, h—m [clearing the throat], while she's talking.
12. 12.0. —Lady just going out now. She's rather stout, nice-looking
lady [i.e., the caller]. She [Mrs. Holmes] mentioned to the lady that sho
was trying some experiments with a friend of hers, but she doesn't tell her
how or which way. She walks out with her a little way.
13. 12.7.—The lady's [Mrs. Holmes] got a little rheumatism in one of
her legs. Caller lady comes around in a carriage. The carriage wait* for her.
Any questions you want to ask me ? I'm getting a little obscure, can't see so
well.-
14. 12.8. —Now she's picked up something and eating it. (What is it I )
It looks like a little round thing, kind of white. Perhaps it's a cake.
15. 12.10.—Now there seems Ui be something going on here. There's a
liny called, and she delivers to him a parcel. Now she's gone to lie down, and
she'll probably stay there some time, so I'm going to leave her. (See anything
written on desk ? ) T-e-1-1 m-e t-h-i-s i-f y-o-u c-a-n.
16. 12.13.—(Can you see the daughter?) She's thinking about going
siway. Isn't that all right ? (I don't know. Do you mean"going away from
where's she's living ? ) Yes.
17. You tell her—elderly lady — the boy's not going to be ill, and to taks
good care of herself.
18. 12.15.—She's got a book. I didn't see her pick it up. Oh, it's the
sune book. She's lying there, reclining.
19. 12.20. —She's just had a picture changed on the wall. She had
somebody else move it. He's gone now. He says "Good-bye" [i.e., the
" spirit " William, who, according to Phinuit, has been supplying most of tin
information].
12.25. [Trance ends.]
[Notes made by Mrs. Holmes during the hour of sitting. In envelope
addressed to Professor Henry P. Bowditch, postmarked "New York, June.
23, 2 p.m.," and " Back Bay, Boston, June 24, 7 a.m."]
Spuyten Duyvil, Tuesday, June 23rd, 1891.
Experiment began at 11.5, cottage parlour. I sat at desk in dark blui
148 Mr. It Hodgson.
calico wrapper with white spots, and wrote until 11.30 a letter beginning
"Dear Dr. Hodgson." My daughter, Mrs. Margaret K , lounged on
sofa in white muslin dress, reading. Went to bookcase, took out encyclo
pedia, carried it to sofa and read until door bell rang at 11.30. Mrs. K
answered bell ; found at door a one-eyed beggar who wanted money. .She
went upstairs for pocket-book and stopped to eat a piece of pea-nut candy ;
came down, gave him some money, and returned to parlour.
From 11.30 to 11.45 we sat in parlour and shelled peas without interrup
tion. Conklin, the grocer, passed window. From 11.46 to 12 Mrs. K
continued shelling peas and I sat at desk writing Dogmatic, Bigoted, Nice,
Smart, Wings, in big letters, on sheets of paper.
From 12 to 12.15 played piano while my daughter sang to big rag doll,
rocked it, trotted it on knee, danced round the room with it, and finally
tossed it [to] ceiling.
From 12.15 to 12.30 sat on floor and built block houses. Wo both built
a tower of Babel, and closed our hour of experiment with a grand downfall.
(Signed) Mm. Jiua Holmes.
Makuaket H. K.
[Later notes by Mrs. Holmes on the report of sitting, June 23rd, 1891.]
2. No, not reading—my daughter had just laid down book, 11.30. Yes.
EliyiM-h Hoyt Holmes, my mother-in-law, has a granddaughter Alice.
3. No. My daughter laid book down, went upstairs, stood before
mirror, opened bureau drawer, for purse— does not recall touching her hair.
4-7. Wrong.
8. Yes. Slight headache—very unusual for me.
9. No. My daughter left apartment. I did not.
10. I wore dark blue dress with spots, not stripes. Yes, we have a new
servant, stout person. I did not talk to her then.
11. A lady called in her carriage six weeks ago. She took Margaret's
photograph from table, admired it, asked for it, put her parasol against table
while holding photo. I gave her the picture. Do not remember her dress.
[It was afterwards ascertained that it was not black.]
12. This lady dined with us last Friday. After dinner, I told her the
story of Phinuit's experiments, how he saw me at "box of things," &c.
Called him " clairvoyante's control." No name mentioned.
13. Yes, left knee — leg sometimes gives out. Yes, lady's carnage
waited outside and drove round a little. While waiting for it to return we;
walked in the garden. See 12.
14. No.
15. No.
16. My daughter is building a house in B . She will move there
in the fall.
17. I have worried about the yirl, not the boy. Thought of asking
Phinuit to read her hair.
18. No.
19. No, we have had no picture changed in this cottage ; we did in the
city.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 149
49. Sitting ou Jitne 24th, 1891.
[H.H. taking notes.] (Entranced 11.29.)
1. William has been telling me lots of things. This lady lost a little
.child many years ago, a little child that scarcely lived, stillborn or nearly so.
2. Her own mother is quite well, but she's a little bit deaf. A little
trouble on right side of head of mother. The right ear is a little troublesome
sometimes. Years ago she had i|uite a severe illness in the stomach, but
recovered, and she'll stay in the body some time yet. William remembers it.
£The foregoing concerns Mrs. H.'s mother.] This lady [Mrs. H.] takes a good
deal from her mother. Aunt Caroline on the mother's side. You want me
to go and see what she is doing I (Yes.) Sometimes William tells me and
sometimes I go myself. He takes me there.
3. 11.34.—Her throat's a little better to-day.
4. 11.35.— She has a big stick in her hand, looks like a handle. She's gob
it, and she's reaching up ipjite highly and arranging a picture on the wall. A
cord from which the picture is suspended. Now she steps to the window
And takes the stick and reaches up and drawing the draperies—sort of
portiere that hangs by the window on one side. She stands the stick in the
corner, and makes the canopy thing drop down from outside. William tells
iue it is a-w-n-i-n-g.
5. She's got on a greyish gown.
6. 11.40.—-Now she's helping this fleshy person I told you about—looks
like a servant— to arrange furniture and things in the room.
7. 11.42.— Now she's disposed of this person and she's sitting down.
8. 11.44.—Well I'll be hanged if she isn't musical. Her fingers going
like this [tapping with fingers as if strumming on a board]. (Do you hear
.anything ?) No, 1 think she's doing it for fun, to see if I can see it. Now
she goes to the desk. She's writing something. Does she write to you what
.she's doing ? (Yes.) She's writing down : Drawn curtain. Talked to Willie.
Who's Willie ? (I don't know.)
9. Told Mnry In brush my cloak. Please hang in closet in mil room after
putting on line.
10. M,) dear mother, I trill send tilings to i/OH to-morrow if possible.
11.50.—That's all. Now she's stopped.
11. 11.51.—Samps. Can't get any more of that now. Perhaps I'll get
.that later. I see June.
12. She's got a letter that's got your influence there, on her desk. She's
just lifted it up and looked at it. Have you been writing to her ? (Yes.)
She's laid it on one side now.
13. 11.54.— Do you know she's got something ? She's just picked it up ;
looks like a watch—a round thing, shiny. Hold on now, she's writing
something. June 24th. Then a dash—two ones and two and five, 1125.
(She's in the same surroundings ?) She's at her desk. That what yon
mean ? (Yes.)
14. Had a call from Mrs. French. I don't think that's ,juite right, but
jt looks like it.
150 Mr. R. Hodgson.
15. Sampson. (Is Sampson written thoro ? ) Yes, that looks like on the
note to mother.
16. Do you know Steven? (No, I don't think so. Do you see that
written 1 ) No, I hear it.
17. 12.2.—I see Mary written. Shu had a grandfather named John.
(Do you sec that written ! ) No, I hear that.
18. 12.3.—As tine as you live she's had the portrait of a gentleman
moved on the wall. I see portrait. (Written ?) Yes.
19. 12.5.— She gets up, and takes a little red wrap-like thing, and put*
over her shoulders. Then she goes back, and sits down again in the same
scat. " Oh dear ! " she says. She takes the book on her knee now. She
writes pretty fast this minute.
20. Here comes the same girl now. (The servant ? ) Yes. Raps on the
door and jvtsses her a paper. She [Mrs. H.] says, "Lay it down, please-
thank you." Servant passes out.
21. Now the daughter comes in and sits down in rocking-chair and talks,
with her mother about making arrangements about a house.
22. Who do those two children belong to ? Her daughter ? She don':
know but she'll send one of them away for a little time. For rest and
change, you know. Have you been there yourself ? (Yes.)
23. 12.8.- Did you notice that little body of water near there ? (Yes. )i
24. I should think she wouldn't like to be watched like this, but she
don't mind.
25. 12.10.—Do you know, I see the name Margaret.
20. This lady [Mrs. H.] likes Miss P .
27. The daughter says something—she'll have somebody sounds like
Ed—something—trim up that tree.
28. 12.12.- - Her daughter shows her something white like cloth, and asks,
her how to put it together, which is the best way to have it go.
29. Right behind the lady [Mrs. H.] is a stand with something yellow in
it like fruit.
30. 12.15. —Upon my word, that lady's going out to drive. She thinks,
she won't go till a little later, so it's all right. What time of day ! She's,
talking about lunch. She doesn't know whether to drive before lunch or
after. She finally thinks she'll not go till after.
31. I mud get these off by early mail to-morrow. (She writes that ! }
Old'. No, I've made a mistake there. She says that.
32. 12.18.—She's taken up a little thing and looks as if she was doing,
something to the ends of her nails. Now she sits back and rocks.
33. The daughter's just going out. The mother goes towards the window
and looks out. Then she puts her hands behind her and paces the room to.
and fro, to and fro, like she did before, you know. She goes towards door,
which is open, then goes out into the yard.
34. 12.20.—Now she's stooped over looking at something, a Hower.
She's got a little Iiair of nippers and she's culling them. She's trimming the
ends of them. She's nipping off the little briars on the lower end of the
stems, and the lower leaves, to make a pretty nosegay.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 151
35. 12.23.—Now she pulls up her gown and she steps up the steps aml
she comes in. Now she goes to a long mantel—like, takes a vase, puts
water in it, puts the flowers in it, and stands it on her desk. Looks like roses.
36. 12.25.—Now she's just picked up her pencil. Picked. She puts
har hand up to har ear. Flowers, trimmed stems, put them on desk in my
room. I'm getting dim.
37. Now looks as if she was brushing herself [imitating]. (With her
hands ?) I don't see any brush.
38. 12.26.—Left room, goas out and upstairs. Goes to mirror and is
tidying herself up. I cannot see any more. 11.29.—I'm too dim. I can't
see any more. I haven't heard William so plainly. I've had to work alone
a little bit. He helps me, he gives me strength. If I hadn't had him to
help me, I couldn't do half so well. The influence of the articles [lock of
hair, ribbon, &c] goes through me to him like a battery.
39. You ask her when you write if she remembers Florence. William
says this.
[Notes made by Mrs. Holmes during the hour of sitting. In envelopa
addressed to Professor H. P. Bowditch, and postmarked " New York, June
24, 2 p.m.," and " Back Bay, Boston, June 25, 7 a.m."]
Wednesday, June 24</t, 1891.
Cottage parlour at 11.15 a.m. I sit in bay window, making the word
Phinuit in leaves. For fifteen minutes I sew green leaves on a sheet of white
paper. From 11.30 to 11.45 I write a few lines to Phinuit on this sheet.
At 11.45 I stop writing and go to the garden to pick flowers and hunt for a
child's sun hat. Do not find the hat, but pick up a small blue jacket. At 12
I lie in the hammock and "loaf with (Walt Whitman) and my soul " for
fifteen minutes. Then a boy drives up with a cart and a dog. I get up, pat
the dog, take down hammock and speak to the boy. At 12. 15 I return to
1iarlour, write a few lines to Phinuit, and lie down on sofa. I lie on the same
sofa, in the same dress which my daughter, Mrs. K -, wore yesterday,
imitating her manner and attitude. At 12.30 I rise, sit at desk and write to
Professor Bowditch. It is now 12.45.
JfLiA Holmes.
[Later notes by Mrs. Holmes on the report of sitting on June 24th, 1891.]
1. Yes, I lost a little child, years ago—a premature birth—never knew
the sex.
2. Yes, my own mother is a little deaf (don't remember in which ear),
sometimes worse than others. Yes, her illness generally takes that form. Has
a chronic inflammation of stomach and bowels. Do not remember any special
severe sickness so long ago (forty years). William might. No. I am not
at all like my mother.
3. Shouldn't have noticed throat if Phinuit hadn't called my attention
to it. Yes, I have some irritation there—the tonsils are always a little
swollen.
4. No, didn't have stick in my hand, and we have no awnings anywhere.
[See Addendum, p. 153.] I daily dust a painting which hangs over writing-
desk. I use a small feather duster. Picture hangs close to curtain.
152 Mr. M. Hodgson.
o. I had on white muslin.
6. We have a new servant, who is fleshy, named Bridget. No, I was
not helping her arrange furniture at this time.
7. No, not at this hour.
8. I played piano while my daughter rooked rag doll, Mc day before,
about this time, 11.44. I played "Johnny, get your gun," &c, to see if
Phinuit could hear me. Yes, I was " doing it for fun, to see if 1 can see it."
I left piano and returned to desk. I wrote two lines in a letter to Dr.
Hodgson, and made words to look at. 1 did not write "Drawn curtain,"
hut I explained in my letter to Dr. Hodgson, finished in the afternoon, about
some curtains put up throe weeks previously. [All this on the day before,
June 23rd.—B.H.] Did not say or write " talked to Willie."
9. No.
10. Six weeks ago I wrote my mother I would send her things by
express—may have said " to-morrow if possible."
11. See 15.
12. Yes, I had Dr. Hodgson's last letter of instructions on my desk, to
which I repeatedly referred.
13. Yes, I had watch on my desk, consulted it every fifteen minutes, and
wrote the hour and minutes on iiaper.
14. No, had no call from Mrs. French—no one called.
15. Sampson was a nickname given to my baby, Charles Hoyt Holmes,
on account of his extreme littleness. He lived six months. Sampson was
not written anywhere, and 1 wrote no note to mother at this time.
16. I know Mary Stevens, nee Holmes, my mother's niece. My mother
also has an uncle Stephen.
17. I had a great-great-grandfather named John Sadler. Nu Mary
was written.
18. Wrong. We have no portrait of gentleman on any wall.
19. I got up and put on a red shawl over my muslin dress, wore it in
the garden, in the hammock, and after experiment closed. I wrote pretty
fast fifteen minutes later, when finishing notes for Dr. Bowditch—hurried
to catch postman.
20. Wrong.
21. No, my daughter was in New York. We have often talked over a
new house, which we have been designing during the last month.
22. My grandchildren Kenneth and Marjorie K . We have not
discussed sending them away, but I have been anxious about Marjorie, and
wished she might have a change.
23. Yes. Spuyten Duyvil Creek and Hudson River.
25. Margaret is my daughter.
26. True.
27. We have not said anything to Ned about training tree. He is the
gardener. [See Addendum, p. 153.]
28. No.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 153
29. A yellow table stands just back of my writing chair. Had a dish of
cherries there day before experiment.
30. No.
31. Wrong.
32 and 33. At 11.14 my daughter went to the station. I hadn't small
leaves enough to make the word Phinuit. I went to the garden for another
branch, came back, and cut off the smallest ones with some little scissors
lying on desk. Cutting out round dots for the i, some leaves fell in my lap.
I brushed them off with my hands. Think I cleaned nails with these scissors
just before beginning to cut leaves. Don't remember sitting in rocking-chair,
but did pace up and down two or three times after coming from garden. It
is my habit.
34. Yes, the smaller leaves were all at the end of the branch— not to
make a nosegay, but a Phinuit.
35. At 12.15 I lifted my dress, came up steps, went to Iwokcase, put
flowers (daisies) in a yellow vase, but forgot the water. I put vase back on
bookcase. There was a pitcher of roteu on desk—wild roses, brought on
Sunday. The same wild roses are painted on the pitcher.
36. At 12.25 I took my pen and wrote few lines to Phinuit. No, did
not say " Put them on desk in my room," but gathered up stems left from
word Phinuit and laid them on top of desk by the roses.
37. May have brushed a few leaves from my dress just here, but think I
did it all before—remember going to open window to let leaves fall in grass.
38. Don't remember doing this at any time.
.39. Can't remember Florence.
Addendum : That pole my daughter put out of the window to poke Walter's
coat off the roof may be the pole Phinuit saw. Could he have mistaken the
coat for an awning 1 I was writing to you about it, and my letter lay upon
desk during hour of experiment.i Could he have sensed the word Walter and
mistaken it for Water? He confused me and my daughter, and he mixed
up the two days of experiments, but he really did see a good deal.
While lying in hammock, morning before first experiment, June 23rd, I
looked into cedar and pear trees and thought if I were mistress here, I should
•' have A'erf trim up these trees." But nothing of this kind was taid. It
was about this time my daughter came to the window with the pole when 1
laughed and cried out to her : "Oh, if Phinuit could only see you now."
Jvt.ia Holmes.
[Note by R.H.]
The following statements were made by Phinuit to me at a sitting on June
25th, 1891 :—
11.40.—She is taking books out. She's been dusting them. [No.]
12.31.—She's written two notes and posted them off this very day.
' June 23rd. " Wonder if Phinuit saw [my daughter] wrap the window curtain
about her shoulders and poke Walter's old coat off the bay window roof with a
long pole about 10 30 tins a.m."—[Extract from letter to me from Mrs. Holmes,
written June 23rd ; received by me on return from sitting on Juno 24th.—R. H.]
Mr. R, Hodr/son.
[Yes.] There's boon .1 dark-coloured man there within 24 hours. [No.] I
saw her just a little while ago, combing her hair, brushing her hair. [Yes.]
She's going to make a call, then she's going to do a few little things at home.
[No.] She wrote a lot of numbers in one of the books—objects that she's
going to get- a sort of list. [My daughter did - made a list, went to the city,
and called on Ella, June 24th, not 25th.]
50. Miss Edmunds and Mrs. Holmes. July 1st, 1891.
[I was at Bar Harbor June 26th to July 3rd, and having learned by letter
from Mrs. Holmes that she intended to spend a day or two in Boston, and
wished to have a sitting with Mrs. Piper, I explained the circumstances to
Miss Edmunds (my assistant), and requested her to accompany Mrs. Holmes
to the sitting and take notes. Mrs. Holmes came to my office upon her
arrival in Boston, on June 30th, and had an interview with Miss Edmunds,
who was to have a sitting on July 1st. Mrs. Holmes did not wait till July
1st, and went to see Mrs. Piper in the afternoon of June 30th in the hope
of obtaining a sitting. Mrs. Piper could not give her a sitting then, but
Mrs. Holmes had some conversation with Mrs. Piper and, inadvertently,
" revealed her identity " as the subject of the experiments which I had been
making. The new matter, therefore, mentioned to Mrs. Holmes at thin
sitting can hardly be vegarded as of evidential value, and 1 give the details
only of the attempt Ui obtain from Phinuit some description of my own
doings during the hour of the experiment.—R. H.]
[L.E. taking notes.] (Mrs. Piper entranced al,out 11.30.)
***••* *
[L. E. speaks of the li>w—twelve o'clock—and suggests that Phinuit be
"sent after" Dr. Hodgson. Phinuit does not seem to comprehend at first,
and goes on :] . . .
[Phinuit is told again to see where Dr. Hodgson is.] Is that when-
Marie D is ? I'll go there. I saw him a minute ago. (What is he
doing ! ) [Long pause of nearly two minutes, during which Mrs. Piper
breathes heavily and seems to be in a deep, natural sleep ; takes her Hand
away from Mrs. Holmes, and her face is seen looking perfectly natural. |
Ha ! What do you think he is doing ? He handed a book to Marie D .
She turns it over. Hopped over some of the pages and handed it back to him.
He says he is going out with Charles—going out towards the water—going to
take .1 ride when 1 left him. He had one foot crossed over the other ; shows
the book to Marie and goes out. He looks like a countryman. (What's
he got on ?) Oh, he looks like a Scotchman. [Another 1wiuse, during which
Mrs. Piper again seems asleep.] Oh, he's flopped over on his stomach '.
Now he's turned over the other way ! I never saw him cut up like
that before. He throws both arms up. Now he's stretching and
yawning ! . . . [Long pause again.] Ha ! ha ! He did something
like leap-frog with Charles—like leaping frog. (On the sands ? ) No, 0ii
the front of the building, at the farther end of it. He going to take a drive
now—will presently. [Pause again.] He's got into a kind of funny thing
and rolled off.
* ♦ * * *
[Mrs. Piper came to herself at 12.40.]
Observations of Certain 1'hcnomenu of Trance. 155-
[Notes by K. H.]
I made only the following notes during the time of the experiment : —
12.—Up from beach with Miss A. Carriage.
12.15.—Started for Green.
12.17. —Dropped book.
[I was staying at Mrs. D 's, in I5ar Harbor, as was known to Miss.
Edmunds and also, I believe, to Mrs. Piper. Phinuit usually calls Mrs.
D. by the name Marie (Mary), and Mr. D. by his first name Charles. I did
not look "like a Scotchman," but Phinuit's remarks might have done very
well for George D., who wore knickerbockers and a tam o'shanter hat fre
quently during my visit. I had also specially noticed him lounging on the
grass and flinging his arms and lxxly about, but could not say at what time
he did this, nor could he give me any information. Somewhere between
11.30 and 12 I strolled down to the edge of the water with Miss A., return
ing about 12. I fell on a slippery rock just as we left the beach. The
carriage was waiting to take a iwirty of us up Green Mountain. We waited
a short time for some other members of the lwirty, and then we mounted
the high carriage, and, as Phinuit describes it, evidently near the right
moment, "rolled off." The incident of the drive appears to be the only
one that Phinuit hit correctly- -as to time. As we started in the carriage
we were joking about the possibility of Phinuit's seeing us.]
51. Alius Edmunds. July 6th, 1891.
[From notes made during the sitting by Miss Edmunds.]
[Mrs. Piper entranced about 11.45. I handed to Phinuit an envelope
containing what I afterwards found to be a piece of narrow white silk ribbo
Phinuit's remarks are abridged.]
[Phinuit takes the ribbon from its wrappings.] It's nothing but a string
like thing, nothing but string. I get Hodgson's influence—Hodgson and
some woman put that together. [He then threw the wiajs on the ground
and tucked the "string" in Mrs. Piper's hair. I then gave him the large
envelope containing some MSS.] That's another of Hodgson's tricks. . . .
You see if there is not writing on that. (Yes, there is.) Open it out. [I open
it out and put it over his head.] No, not that way ; put it with the writing
next to my head. [I turned it over.] There, that's better. I want to get
Hodgson's influence off it. He has had something to do with it, but he
didn't write it. Now, please, give me the wrapper it was in. You see, if
we put anything like this into a wrapper the wrapper holds the influence.
It's a kind of document. It does not belong to wrapper. I wanted to get
it right side up, it was no good the other way. You wait a minute and I'll
strain it all out. It has been written a long time— has not been much
handled—came way across country. (Across the water?) [Hesitatingly.]
Yes, across the water. (I don't know anything about it.) No, I know you
don't, it's some of Hodgson's tricks. If I could only get the least bit of
perspiration of the person who handled it, but there's nothing. And
that thing—the string thing—is just a joke [taking it from his hair and
throwing it on the floor]. Somebody connected with this [the manuscript]
that's lost, someone that's lost, don't you understand ? . . . There is.
ir,G Mr. 11. Hodgson.
no magnetism in that. [The MS.—Creases it up and throws it after tho
ribbon.]
(Can you find out anything about this ?) [Giving him some manuscript
written by " Y.," which he throws away immediately, saying : ] This makes
me cross ! . . . This takes me to a relative. (No.) I saw this with
Hodgson. When he handed it to me it made me sick—I couldn't tell
him anything about it—it's something to do with a woman. This woman
is a perfect crank. What she says is no good—she's kind of funny. She's
in body—not likely to go out yet ; she live long time yet. You know
-all you want to of her. She thinks she is smart, knows a good deal,
but she don't; she don't know so much as she thinks. She's married.
It's got yonr influence on it, too—it was written for you—you had some
thing to do with it after she wrote it. [True, I copied the hieroglyphs.]
it's no earthly use. Her names spell with an . . . [Three right letters
given in last name.] Her first name, Lawlie, Lane, Laurie—no, Laura.
(That's wrong. You are nearly right, though, with the last name.) She's a
.crank. I don't like her influence. She thinks she's very clever. She travels
-a lot. (Very true.) She's going across the water soon. . . . [Bight
name given—first name and surname.] . . . [Further description of
.character correctly given.]
[But I want you to tell me where Dr. Hodgson is. He wants you to call
iin him this morning.] Oh, I see Hodgson near the water. Who are those
children—two of them ? He's been talking to two boys.
1. This lady [meaning Mrs. Holmes] near the water. She's sitting in a
chair [12.15] in front of the building. She's got a wrap round her. She
thinks she is going in. She's got up to go now. Now she's patting both
hands together—clap hands. I like her. Her astral body is very clear, very
light. [Pause as if asleep.] I went right close to her. She has gone in and
put on more wraps--you know, like a lady does—and she is going out to tako
walk, a little walk for a little exercise.
2. Do you know who iShdtun is— Shepard—what you call him ? Don't
you remember a little fellow with you at same school I He was taken from
school on account of being ill. You were going to see him with a lady, to
visit him. He passed out. Charles—Charlie—a little lame fellow. (No, I do
Hot remember anything about it.) Can't you think ? [In a tone of great dis
appointment.] (I do not remember a lame boy of that name.) [There was
a lame boy with curvature of spine at school by the name of Candler (I do
not remember first name unless it was Edward), for whom I remember feeling
great pity, but 1 never spoke to him or visited him. I was friendly with his
sisters—the boys were in another house. I have heard nothing of them
-since.]
3. I see Hodgson in the country—what's tho name of that phice ?-
country—in place where William is ! (There are a number of Williams in tho
world !) Yes, but Hodgson doesn't know fifty million Williams ! He is not
in Charles' surroundings, but in with another William—not William
•James. There's a lady that has light hair. I get his influence and the
lady's together. Now Hodgson is with her. I get their influence together.
I see him in surroundings of—I get name William- not William James—you
have to go across the water a little way and it is near the water—a country
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 157
lil;ico. He is not with Mrs. D now—not there, but in another place.
[Seeing he had made so many mistakes I asked a leading question to see
whether he would alter his track.] (Is he not in Boylston-place ?) No.
Light-haired lady. He has been within a few days in surroundings of
William—tall man, rather grey, and light-haired lady. Give me something of
his. (I have not anything unless this.) [Handing envelope, addressed by
Dr. Hodgson, which contained the "string." Phinuit puts it to his forehead
for a time and went on :] He's writing now—lots of books and papers around
him. Got his feet on something, I can't describe well. I thought he was by
the water ; that water is a tank thing that holds water, and he was washing
his feet and hands, that was what the water was. You see it confuses me,
Lulie. Mrs. Holmes was by the water. I saw her there, and I saw water
around Hodgson, and I thought he was by the water, too, but he was washing
himself. He was doing something with the water. Now he has sat down
and is writing. [12.30.]
4. He is talking to someone named William, but not William James. I
have got the two mixed—Mrs. Holmes and Hodgson. Now I get it clearer.
He takes a stick and is poking about in the funniest kind of way, and he
seems as if he is talking and laughing to me, and saying all kinds of things,
to me. He said : "Oh, Phinuit, you're no good." Now he says, "Now,
Phinuit, you see if you can see that." And he has piled a lot of things one
on top of another [and in same breath] How's Kate ? You've sent her a book.
Your father say it has reached its destination. [I had recently sent Kate a
book.] . . . [Returns to Dr. H.] Oh, now I see him open the window
—now he uses water. I see him brushing his hair. I see him drinking
something from a cup. Now he's making a picture like a great big scrawl—
funny looking thing ! Now I see him go to a closet-like thing and open it
and take out something. (What is the "something"?) Looks like a dish of
some kind. Now he is walking up and down. Oh, now he's making such a
horrid-looking face. He has put his hands in his pocket and sat back and is
looking at something. He's taken a wreath, a funny thing, and put it on hi;,
head. What are those books and papers round him? He's got so many of
them. Are they his ? (I expect so.) He goes downstairs, pat-a-pat, and gets
letter and goes upstairs, pat-a-pat. That's not his house. An old lady there.
(Landlady ?) I don't know. W:ho's William ? A light-haired old lady.
(Light-haired ?) Well, perhaps grey—it's not black, anyhow. (Why, yes,
grey is light, it is not dark.) Yes, grey is light. I was right in saying
" light-haired." A gent has called with a book in his hand. (Do you
know him ?) He lectures or something. Hodgson has sat down and talks
to someone.
Boston, Mass., July 7th, 1891.
[Comments by E. Hodgson on the sitting of July 6th, 1891.]
The piece of ribbon was sent to me by a lady relative of T. C. Hartshorn.,
the translator of Deleuze's Practical Instructions in Animal Magnetism, and
the first manuscript given to Phinuit at this sitting was in the handwriting,
many years ago, of Mr. Hartshorn, deceased. The ribbon had been worn
by the lady. No one was " lost " in connection with the MSS., and the rest
of what Phinuit said about these articles, though correct, can hardly be
regarded as indicating any supernormal knowledge.
Mr. Ii. Hodgson.
The second lot of MSS. I had taken at a previous sitting, and Phinuit
•seemed disgusted with it, and declined to tell anything about it, saying that
it was rubbish, and he didn't want to have anything to do with it, and
throwing it upon the floor. It was an almost undecipherable first draft of a
lecture by a lady known to Miss Edmunds.
Mrs. Holmes made the following notes (either July 7th or July 8th,
1891) upon seeing the record of the sitting :—
1. At 12 noon I was sitting on the sand at Onset beach, thinking intently
-of Phinuit and willing him to see me. Supposing Dr. Hodgson to be with
Mrs. Piper, I also concentrated my mind upon him. I had on black wrap
trimmed with gold. At 12.15 I arose, patted the sand from my hands, and
went to dinner at the Washburn House. I went into the hall, took off my
wrap, hung up my umbrella, had dinner, came out about 1 p.m.— possibly
12.45—and walked to my room in another street.
2. I think possibly Phinuit heard the name diaries fihellon, and confused
it with the lame boy. He is the father of the late Willis C. Shelton, the
celebrated boy organist.
3. 1 was thinking much of my brother William, wondering if he could
see me as Phinuit suggested. I was also apostrophizing Phinuit, saying,
*' Now come and try to see what 1 am doing. Are you here, Phinuit ? " &c.
4. Yes, Phinuit evidently "got the two mixed, Mrs. Holmes and Dr.
Hodgson." ... I poked my parasol in the sand unconsciously, while
thinking, but I piled up nothing.
1 believe that Mrs. Piper and perhaps Phinuit also independently (since
Mrs. Holmes had a sitting alone on July 3rd) knew that Mrs. Holmes was at
Onset (by the sea), so that there is nothing remarkable in Phinuit's state
ments about her, except, possibly, the description of her clapping her hands
about the time whe'n she was patting her hands together to get rid of the
sand.
The notes of my own doings, which 1 made during the hour of the
experiment, are as follows : -
July 6th, 1891.
11.30. 12.—Getting up with usual incidents boiling kettle, making
tea, Ac.
12 noon.—In office, turning chair upside down, &s. Getting letters, thou
writing these notes.
12.3.—Pull up window blind.
12.8.—Put on jester's cap with bolls. Took it off.
12.12.—Walked about room with jester's hat on. Went into bedroom,
took up ginger-ale bottle, having cheroot in my mouth unlit. Light cheroot.
Printed " sly veal " on paper and placed it on top of desk, next little clock,
saying, " Phinuit, do you see that I " repeatedly and pointing to it with pen.
Open and read various letters, occasionally directing my attention to xly real.
12.20.—Put teacup away in cupboard.
12.25.—Postman comes in with registered letter from England.
12.20.—Read Mrs. Sidgwick's letter— envelope contains photograph, &c.
12.35.—Take out large shdl from box, and hold it up near sly veal. Take
piece of brick from shell and fit it to the other fragment, Ac. Then read
reports of Mrs. H.'s sittings.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 159
The description of my having bath, going downstairs to get letters,
drinking tea, &c., would have been true if given at the right time ; but these
form part of the usual morning routine, and were known to Miss Edmunds
and I believe also to Mrs. Piper. Phinuit's account of my talking and
laughing to him might, perhaps, have been a shrewd guess, sinoe he was aware
that I had arranged the experiment. His reference to my making " a
picture like a great big scrawl," putting the " wreath, a funny thing " on my
head, and the calling of "a gent with a book in his hand " might, indeed, be
vague glimpses of my doings in printing the words "sly veal," putting the
jester's cap on, and receiving the postman and signing in his little book for
the registered letter. I sat down at my desk to sign, and interchanged a few
words with the postman. This last incident must, have occurred only a very
few minutes before Phinuit's mention of the person calling. Taken
altogether, there is enough coincidence to suggest that further experiments
in this direction may be successful. It is worth while adding, with regard to
irossible hypotheses, that there were three " wreaths " (which had been
there since Christmas) hanging in my room, and that I had contemplated
placing one of these on my head during the hour of experiment, but found
them too dusty.
52. Dr. C L . July 1th, 1891.
[See No. 38, p. 125.]
Boston, Jidy 9</t, 1891.
In the beginning of the sitting I had with Mrs. Piper on 7th July, she, or
"Dr. Finlay," was uninteresting and vague, but gradually he grew interest
ing. He read some names of persons which 1 had written down on a paper,
although Mrs. Piper was to all appearances sound asleep, and with her head
bent down, so that she could not possibly see the paper. Asked to give some
test that I could tell Dr. Hodgson, he said : " Do you know Dr. Hodgson ?" and
he continued : " You had a fire at your camp at night some time ago ; it did
not last very long, but caused some confusion. 1 tell you this because
nobody could possibly have informed me of it." This is perfectly correct.
About four months ago, in a very windy night, in Mexico, a fire started in
my camp, near the kitchen fire. The cook got his blankets and some of his
•clothes burnt, and most of our scanty provisions were destroyed, but the
•damage was nothing much to speak of, and I cannot recollect I ever men
tioned this event any more. I feel at least certain I never spoke of it in
U.S.; in fact it was too insignificant an accident ever lo be mentioned any
more.
I then asked whether I had been in any danger on the road, to which lie
answered : "You came nearly being shot at by the Indians. You were out
with another man shooting, and they thought you were after them, but see
ing that you were looking for deer they did not disturb you. This happened
in the beginning of your journey, and you had no idea of any danger." In
regard to this event, I suppose he refers to what took place about five weeks
after my start on my journey. Two of my men who had been out prospect
ing all day reported on their arrival in the evening that they had seen fresh
tracks of Apache Indians. We were a large party, and I did not feel any
anxiety about their attacking us. Next morning I went out alone with a
Mexican, shooting deer, and I heard in the course of the day a shot at some
lbO Mr. R. Hodgson.
distance. He said that this is what he refers to. The shot was fired off at
such a distance tint it was not meant for me, I am sure. He said that it was
only intended to frighten me.
He next spoke of my family in Europe. They are all well, he said. My
sister h ts just been, " or is just going to he, married. My married sister
his just become a mother."1 This is news for mo, as I have had no mail for
a very long time, but as soon as I get news from abroad I will let you know
whether he is right.
C L .
53. Miss A. October 16tfi, 1891, 11 a.m.
In accordance with my request, Mrs. Piper arranged to give a sit
ting on Friday, October 16th, 1891. The name of the sitter was, of
course, not mentioned to Mrs. Piper. She is a member of our Society,
residing in New York. I shall call her Miss A.
On October 19th she writes :—.
... In my judgment, the tests were very conclusive, and the infor
mation given by Phinuit has proved correct in all three cases according tiv
the statements of the owners of the articles I took with me for the experi
ment. I enclose an account of the sitting which I have been enabled to
mtke from some quite full notes made [during the sitting] by the friend who
accompanied me. The delay has been in getting the various items of infor
mation verified, as in the case of the locket the owner is unknown to me and
c mid only be approached through a friend whom I could not get at till late
on Saturday.
*****
For myself I am quite convinced, after this test, that objects do carry
spheres, whereby the passive personality is enabled in trance to enter the
fmrvr astral plane, wherein all the memories of past and present are indelibly
pictured. . . .
From conversation with Miss A. I learn that additional points,
were given correctly at the sitting which have been omitted from the
ivport on the ground that the owners of the articles would object to
their publication.
[Account by Miss A.]
*****
Sitter: "I have brought some things I want you to tell me about."
Phinuit: ''Do you know about them?" S. : "No, I want you to tell
me." P. : "I feel a very strong influence here. It is your father—oh,
very strong. He is out of the body. . . . [Continued with some
characteristics of my father, all quite true.] S. : "I don't want to know
anything about myself, or my relations. I want you to tell me some
thing I don't know anything about." P. : " Ha, well, I will do what
1 can for you."
[Here a locket was given to the medium and she took it, but imme•-
i This statement not correct, as Dr. L. writes to me from South America. H»
i'ops not mention whether a sister had just been married or not.—R. H.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 1CI
diately called out:] "There is another influence here, I feel it. Who
i< it?" [A friend of mine was sitting at other end of room taking
notes.] S. : " She is a friend of mine, a dear friend. She is a good
influence." P. : [Imperatively] "Tell her to come here." [My friend came
up close, and the medium felt over her face.] P. : " Ha ! she is good ; but
she is not very well—nervous—I don't mean irritable, but weak nerves.
She thinks too much. She has had a great deal of trouble, but it has not
been her own fault." [Hero Phinuit seemed inclined to go on about the
lady in question, but she said : "I don't want you to tell me anything about
me," and I recalled him to the articles I had brought, and said I wanted him
to tell mo about them.] P. : " Out, oui—yes, I will ; but I have to go a long
way off."
1. Lockct.—[Here medium began fingering the locket all over.] 1'. :
"There is a lady connected with it. She has passed out of the body. A
young lady, too. She speaks French. She is out of the body. Her name is
Al—Aleece—Alice. Somebody here named Win—Winnie—William. [Here
medium began to cough hard.] He makes me cough. Oh! very bad cough ;
passed out of the body with—what you call it ? —lung trouble, consumption.
A lady comes with him. . . . I get the influence of a nice gentleman--
he writes a good deal—a good head—a big head—a—what you call it?—
good mind; but he is immensely extravagant." S. : "Can't you tell me
who this gentleman is ? Is he the one who coughs ? " P. : " No, no. This
is another influence. He has the locket. He has it." S.: " Do you mean
it belongs to him?" P.: "Yes, he has it." [Here medium asked to
have the locket opened, and then rutibed it all over her head, and finally
held it for a full minute right on top of her head, breathing very
heavily. I spoke, but got no answer. Then suddenly Phinuit's voice called
out very loudly:] "Ha! I have it. This carries the mother's and the
father's influence. It has hair—ctw.vsnx—two hairs in it. [Here medium
began coughing again.] Too bad he has that cough. This takes me a long
way— across water. [Coughed hard again.] Difficulty of the throat, but will
improve—got better. Matured early—good mind. Too bid he has this
trouble here. [I asked where, and medium placed her hand on my chest.]'
Here,-here ; and his heart was affected, too. Did you know that ! Well, it
was so. [Very emphatically.] You find out and tell them I say so, and it is
so. Gone away across water. He is in spirit now. He has a good friend—
Cory—Car—Carrie—Carey. Has a daughter living. . . . There is a
spirit I get called Marie—Mary—an aunt of the lady who owned it—a lady
in the lxxly who had it." Here the medium wandered a little, saying to the
sitter: "Do you know sxnsona in ths body—Hodgson? Hi gives me
things I don't know, and wants me to find out for him," and as Phinuit
seemed inclined to talk of other matters, I recalled the locket to his remem
brance, whereupon he said : ] " Oui, oui, but it takes me a long while, don't
you know^ to find out. I will find out—but it takes me far back—a long
way. [Here medium began fumbling with locket again, rubbing it on her
head.] This has several influences about it. Did you know that ? Well, it
is so. An aunt—Marie—Mary—in the spirit. A good influence is connected
with it. She passed out of the body with something internal—stomach
wrong. . . . Elizabeth—Elizabeth—do you know Elizabeth ? Elizabeth.
M
162 Mr. R. HocUj8on.
There is a picture here—there is hair here—two hairs. He was a good man,
had a good mind. . . . Who is a Richard ? There is Richard here—do you
know him ? This has been laid away—not used all of the time. . . . I get
El—Ellen—Elinor—a cousin—and a Julia. I see a big building—a gentleman
.—the gentleman with good mind. Edward, his son, studying books in a largo
place. . . ." [Here medium seemed to be getting so confused that I
said : " That is enough about the locket," and placed another object in her
hand belonging to a different person. I regret this now, and think it was a
mistake, as, later on, the medium got the articles rather mixed, and if I had
kept her to the one she would possibly have got clearer indications concerning
it. After telling a good deal about the two other objects, Phinuit suddenly
slid:] "There was something around the locket—give me what was
around it." [The wrapper, an envelope folded several times, was handed to
the medium. She felt it all over and put it on top of her head, then
said:] "Several influences about this. I can't tell much. Feel a doctor
strongly ! " [Medium threw the envelope away and asked for locket again.]
P. : " The gentleman who has this is physically well, and is fine, handsome—
what you call it !—good, good-looking." [Here the sitter suggested the
French phrase, "Un bsl hommo," as Phinuit seemed to be waxing so enthu
siastic over the said gentleman's appearance. Phinuit said, " (hn, oui," but
did not repeat the idiom.] P. " He has light hair and complexion. He is a
nice man, big head, writes a great deal. I see him in an oiHce—he dictates
to others." [Asked here what he meant exactly by dictating, as I thought
giving orders might be the sense intended ; but Phinuit explained that " the
others around the nice gentleman wrote down what be was saying. '] P.:
" He is a good man—I like his influence. Henry—do you know Henry !
He will tell you who Henry is—ask him. I feci Henry's influence strong.
. . [Here medium interpolated some remarks having evident reference
to the other objects given her.] . . . He has a good mind—is intellectual.
He has a wife who is a nice lady. I got Ag—Aug—August —A—U—G—U
—S—T." [Thinking this might be a date which would be useful I asked
Phinuit about it, but could get nothing definite.] P. : "The locket has
passed through four hands. A child had it first—given to a child." [Thia
seemed to me so unlikely that I imagined Phinuit to be off the track, and to
put him upon it again I said : " Can't you tell me the name of the owner ! "
Phinuit replied he " would try "—and spelled out G—E, J—E, Jose—
Josey—G—E, but seemed very uncertain, and constantly appealed to me for
corroboration, but I could not help at all as the Christian names were
unknown to me.] P. : " Marie—the aunt out of the body—nice, good
influence. I get William with it. His son's name spells with an "S."
, . Je—Josey—no, that is not it. [I asked if Josephine was what he
meant.] No, no, J—U—D—S—0—N. [Spelled out very rapidly, but did
not seem satisfied with it.] . . . You tell the nice gentleman he is to go
away unexpectedly—will be called away suddenly. J—O—H—N [spelled
out quickly]. Who is he ? Ell—Ellswart—Ellsworth. Do you know him !
George [came very suddenly]. No, that is not it. The gentleman had a
friend Cory—Car—Carey. . . , Jo—Josey—Joseph [called out suddenly]
—Joseph." S. : " Is that the name of the nice gentleman f" P.: "There
is a ' U ' and an ' E '—Jose—Joseph." [This last came quickly and with a
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 163
certain tone of conviction, so I asked again if that was the gentleman's name,
but Phinuit could not tell me.] . . .
Here I thought the medium had been long enough in trance—45 minutes
—and I said to Phinuit : "I think this is enough. I don't want to know
any more." Whereupon Phinuit said hastily, angrily : " Yon can't send mo
away. I will go when I get ready." I explained that I thought the medium
would be too tired and that it was enough. P. : "I will go when I get
through. Don't you want me to find out something more for you?" S.
"No, that is all I want to know about the locket, &c., ,&c." P. : [Eagerly.]
" Well, I will tell you about yourself, then." [Here followed some amusingly
correct characteristics of my own, very drolly phrased. He pronounced mo
to be physically well, but insisted that I slept with my head too high and that
it was bad, must give it up ; mentioned some events likely to happen in the
near future which have vaguely shaped themselves in my own mind as among
the possibilities. Here I said again : "I don't want to be told anything I
know already." P. : " Don't you want to know any more 1 Ask me what
ever you want " [and after a little more talk said :] " Now I am going," and
shortly thereupon medium came out of the trance.
What particularly struck me as very marked, and also curious in the
whole experience, was the docility of the passive personality—calling itself
Phinuit—to the influence of a strong will. Even when I did not speak my
thought, but mentally willed that certain subjects should not bo touched
upon—as, for instance, recollections of some deceased relations of mine—it
was odd to note how the medium would glance off suddenly and go upon
quite a different tack where my sphere was not armed against intrusion, such
as temperamental facts, characteristics, habits, and so forth.
2. Riiij.—Sitter : "Hero is a ring, Dr. Phinuit, I want you to tell me
about." P. : " Do you know about it ? " S. : " No, I want you to tell me.'
P. : "I do not like the influence of this. It makes me feel bad—mauvais—
bad, bad. Someone connected with it who is wrong in her head—insane—
a lady. She began to lose her mind at an early age. Oh ! it makes me feel
bad. • • • Bad influence. . . . Someone connected with it passed
out of the body with cancer. I do not like it." [Very positively said.]
Here the medium seemed so distressed that the sitter took the ring from her
hand and put a watch in place of it.
3. Watch.—P. : "This is a better influence. [Here medium breathed
very heavily and was quiet for what seemed fully two minutes.] Ha ! it
takes me a long way. I can see the surroundings of that watch. [Here
medium wanted it opened for her.] It had a curious looking chain—a—
what you call it !—fob. It has a gentleman's influence. Came from across
the water many years ago. It has been in Italy. The gentleman has passed
out of the body. I see a brick house, door in the centre, two windows over
the door and two windows each side—no—one window each side of door.
You come up to it by a—what you call it !—walk—jwtth—and passing around
the house at the end is a very singular looking tree. The man who has it i *
in the body. There is a sister named Ann—Ann—Annie (suddenly). I get
the name Elizabeth. Who is Elizabeth 1- -Eliza—Lizzie. I get Elizabeth
strongly—and Henry, too. Hemy gave it to Elizabeth—is not that so ? "
S. : "I don't know—will have to ask." P. : " Well, it is so. I say it is so
1G4. Mr. R. Hodgson.
[angrily], and you will find it so when you ask. ... I fuel the influence
of someone who worked with great, round rolling things." [Various occupa
tions here suggested, and finally Phinuit seemed to adopt the idea that it
was a printing house he meant, for he immediately after said :] "There was
a brother who was a printer. He has handled this. He has passed out of
the body. He was Henry. Someone connected with it named Dav.—Davis.
. . . I see this now in a box with other things—little things—what
you call them ?—trinkets—kept in cotton. It makes me sad now. Eliza
beth—Eliza—don't you know Elizabeth ? There is an Eliza. [Very posi
tively.] J—0—H—N [spelled rapidly]. ... I get him—who is he 1—
and Jo—Joseph [called out quickly and positively]. . . . Jen—Je—Jes
—Jenny. Ask who J—E—N, N— I—E is. . . ." [Here medium
seemed to wander a little and presently called out : " What was around the
locket ? There was something around it "—and when wrapper was given her
Phinuit resumed upon the locket.]
[Notes.]
None of the three articles in question were mentioned to Mrs. Piper
before she went into trance, nor were they even taken out of the bag in which
they were brought, or unwrapped, till they wore handed to the medium.
The sitter had handled them as little as possible, and knew nothing whatever
of their associations, and in the matter of the locket did not even know the
owner. Nor did the lady who took the notes at the sitting know anything
whatever concerning the articles.
1. Luckct.—I got the locket the evening before the sitting, through a friend
whom I met by accident in the street, and upon stating to her that I wanted
some personal article of an individual unknown to me, she said: " We are
close to Mr. 's office and I will go in and ask him if he happens to have
any trinket about him that he will lend." I waited outside in the street till
my friend returned with a little object wrapped up in a paper envelope and
handed it to me, saying that " she knew what it was, but knew nothing of
its history," &c. I was not told what the article was, nor was I acquainted
with the owner—had never seen him and knew only his surname in a casual
way. I did not look at the object given till the sitting with Mrs. Piper wa:i
over and she had come out of the trance, when wo both examined it.
The gentleman who owns the locket bought it for himself when a child,
quite a little fellow, with some money that had been given him as a present.
It had been put away for many years and quite forgotten ; seven or eight
years ago it was by chance recalled to his memory, which occasioned a search
for it, and, when found, he attached it to his watch-chain, and has worn it
since. The locket within has a picture of the owner's mother on one side,
and the hair of his father and mother on the other. The gentleman who had
a cough, owner identifies as an uncle—Charles by name—a brother of his
mother. He himself never saw this uncle Charles, but remembers, when a
little boy, hearing him spoken of as out of health—in his own words, "A
physical wreck " ; that he had consumption, and went to South Africa, where
he seemed for a time to improve, but finally died there. Owner knows no
name like Cory or Carey in connection with the locket, and, in fact, cannot
verify any of the names. He says they may all be correct for all he knows
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 1C5
and belong to different members of his mother's family, who lived in Scot
land, and he has never been brought into contact with any of them, his
mother having been the eldest of a family of 10 or 12, and she married early
and came to this country, where he was born and has always lived. He never
knew any of his aunts, uncles, or cousins till a few years ago, when he went
abroad and met certain ones who come in later in connection with this.
He says his mother might have had a sister Mary; he has a sister
living christened Mary Ann, now called Marian, and that at one time the
locket may have been in her keeping, but he is not sure of this.
The "son, studying books in a large building upstairs," owner thinks is
an allusion to a cousin of his, whose chance acquaintance he made in England
some years ago. This young cousin was the son of an aunt ; his father was
very proud of the lad's cleverness and took Mr. to see him. They
found the boy in a large building up some stairs, surrounded by books, which
he was studying. He cannot remember whether the young man's name was
Edionrd or not, as he was merely introduced to him and never saw him
afterwards, nor has even thought of the incident till brought up in this
•connection.
The doctor mentioned when the envelope was handled, owner thinks
may be an allusion to his father-in-law, who was a physician, and there was
a very intimate relation between them.
Knows nothing about the name Judson, or Ellsworth.
Thinks the attempts to find out his own name were good, his names
being Joseph George, and there is a " IJ " and an " E " in his surname. His
mother's name was Elizabeth. Thinks the allusion to some throat difficulty,
in contradistinction to the lung trouble connected with the uncle, refers to
his mother, for she suffered with a bronchial affection which occasioned
severe spasms in the throat for some years, and she finally died of the
malady—has been dead many years. He thinks the allusions, "good mind
—matured early," refer also to his mother, who was very quick, intelligent,
and capable. He says the allusions to himself are true : he is very
extravagant—to use his own words : " Has had two fortunes and has gone
through both of them " ; is physically well, has a big head ; writes, but
dictates more—says he is " too lazy to write himself when he has others
to do it for him." Has a wife, and she it was who hunted up and found the
locket, when it had been so long laid away and forgotten. Says it would be
impossible at this distance of time to verify any of the names. They are
none of them familiar to him except Elizabeth—his mother's, and Alice—that
of his little niece [who is living, seven years old, and does not "speak
French "].
My friend who asked Mr. for the locket says the description of him
is excellent as to appearance. He has a big head, is intellectual—is very
good-looking, and is a very kind, generous-hearted man. Mr. says he
knows of nothing likely to call him away suddenly in the matter of his
business.
2. Ring.-—The ring and watch were handed to me just as I was going to
keep my appointment with Mrs. Piper. They were in a box, tied up. I
had never seen them, and did not even know of their existence till entrusted
to my keeping. The owner is known to me, but not intimately, so that I
1C6 Mr, B. Hodgson.
knew nothing whatever of the circumstances connected with the articles,
which the owner pronounces to be correctly stated in every particular, but
hii» never before spoken of them to anyone.
The ring, an old-fashioned gold one, with English hall-marks on the
inner rim, and a few small stones set in the middle, was given to present owner
by a young man named John . Owner always suspected him of having-
stolen it, as he was of bad character, and would not say how he had come by
it. Owner never would wear it, and has often thought of throwing it away,
but has kept it in a box with some other old-time trinkets done up in cotton,
the watch being one of them.
The young man's father owed a large sum of money to the mother of the
present owner of ring, but there having been no papers to prove the loan,
upon the mother's decease the father of John [who gave the ring] repu
diated the debt altogether, which naturally caused much trouble and bad
feeling. The father died of cancer in the stomach. Present owner has a
sister, who, at the age of three years, had a great fright from being left alone
in a burning house. When rescued she could make no audible sound, and
gradually became entirely idiotic. She is now fifty years, old. Her name is
Elizabeth—was called Eliza and Lizzie. Present owner of ring had sole
charge of her for many years, but on her becoming worse she was placed in
an institution for the insane, where she now is. She has always been a great
care and anxiety to the present owner of ring.
3. WuUh. —The watch is also old-fashioned, with a gold engraved back
and dial, and is of Geneva make. It was bought by an uncle of present
owner while he was abroad. His name was Joseph, and he lived quite a while
in Italy. Does not know of his having been a printer, but may possibly have
been one. He always wore the watch, and at his death it came to the
mother of present owner. The mother used often to give the watch to the
insane daughter, Elizabeth, as it amused her and kept her quiet. The owner
cannot identify the building so minutely described, but thinks there is some
where in the family a picture of some such house, and will endeavour to look
it up. Present owner has another sister living, named Annie. John was
the name of the young man who gave the ring. Joseph the name of the
uncle who had the watch. Owner keeps in same box with watch and ring a
little crystal seal with Joseph engraved on it, which belonged to the uncle.
Jesse (not Jen-nie) was the name of the mother of present owner.
[Miss A.]
I have ascertained from Miss A. that her companion at the sitting
had never seen Mrs. Piper before. This lady herself writes :—
October 21sl, 1891.
To Mk. HoiKiSOn,—I desire to verify Miss [A.'s] statement, that I knew
nothing of the articles submitted to Mrs. Piper during the sitting at her
house recently.
I know the owner of the watch and ring, and though my acquaintance
with her is less than Miss [A.'s] I know her to be a truthful and reliable
person, and I believe her report relating to the history of these articles to be
strictly true.
Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance 167
I have also received the following statement :—
October 2Ut, 1891.
This is to certify, as the owner of the ring and watch given to Miss [A.]
for the sitting with Mrs. Piper, that I am positive Miss [A.] did not know any
of the family or other circumstances connected with the articles, all of which
were truly stated by Mrs. Piper.
The day before the sitting I had taken a brooch for Miss [A.] to use in
the sitting, but on second thoughts I believed the ring and watch would be
better, as I wanted to find out, if possible, who first had the ring, and how
the person who gave it to me got it. I brought the ring and watch to Miss
[A.] the next morning in a box with an elastic band round it, and told her
nothing but that a ring and watch were inside.
I have never spoken to her of our family connections, and she could
know nothing about them.
The owner of the locket replies to my questions :—
Q. Were any names or initials on locket ? A. No. Q. Had Uncle
Charles any other Christian name 1 A. Don't reme'hiber. Q. Was he the
brother of owner's mother ? A. Yes. Q. Was the locket new when bought
by present owner ? A. Yes. Q. Did the Uncle Charles have a friend with
a name anything like Cory or Carey ? A. Don't remember. Q. Has he a
daughter living i A. Don't know. Q. Has this Cory or Carey a daughter
living ? A. Don't know. Q. Did owner's mother have a sister Mary ? A.
Yes. Q. Did his mother have an Aunt Mary ? A. Yes. Q. Was this Mary
closely connected with a William ? A. Owner's mother's sister Mary's hus
band was named William. Q. Will you inform me if the owner should soon
be called away suddenly ? A. Not yet. Q. Will the owner try to identify
the following names, probably connected with his mother ? Richard, Ellen
or Elinor—cousin of owner or owner's mother—Julia, Edward, Henry.
A. Mother's brother named " Henry," living. Don't remember [the others].
The owner of the ring and watch replies to my questions :—
Q. Were any names or initials on ring or watch ? A. No. Q. Did the
owner of watch identify the Henry referred to ? A. No. Q. Does the owner
recognise any name like Ellsworth ? A. No.
I have records of various sittings with Mrs. Piper since October
16th, 1891. These are reserved for later publication, except several
incidents which have an immediate and important bearing on the
name of Phinuit. I have referred to these incidents in the course of
my introduction.
General Meetings. 1G9
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 51st General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, March 4th, 1892, at 8.30 p.m., the
President in the chair.
Mr. Myers read a paper on " Indications of Continued Knowledge
of Terrene Events shown by Phantasms of the Dead," printed below.
The 52nd General Meeting was held at the same place, on Friday,
April 8th, at -1 p.m. The chair was taken by Professor O. Lodge.
Mr. Myers gave an address on " Hypermnesic Dreams," being a
further portion of his study of the Subliminal Consciousness. This,
with "The Mechanism of Genius," given at the 50th General Meeting,
is printed below.
"A Record of a Haunted House," by the chief percipient in the
case, a lady known to Mr. Myers, was also read by him and is printed
below.
The 53rd General Meeting was held at the same place, on Friday,
May 27th, at 8.30 p.m., the President in the chair.
A paper by Mrs. H. Sidhwick, on " Further Experiments in
Thought-Transference," was read. It is proposed to print this in a
subsequent number of the Proceedings.
Portions of a paper by Dr. Hodgson, printed below, on " Mr.
Davey's Imitations by Conjuring of Phenomena sometimes attributed
to Spirit Agency," were read by Mr. Myers.
N
170 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
I.
ON INDICATIONS OF CONTINUED TERRENE KNOWLEDGE
ON THE PART OF PHANTASMS OF THE DEAD.
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
OUK€Tl TVpoff,a
atSdray nAa Ktopwv imtp 'Hpa,c\tos irepdv (ipapt'v
6vf,t, riva npos d\\o$anav
axpav tpbv n\6ov irnpapclfittu ;
PlSDAr.
Whatever else a ghost may be, it is probably one of the most com
plex phenomena in nature. The briefest and simplest veridical apparition
suggests a series of questions which as yet we are unable even to formu
late with any distinctness. Let us consider for a moment how many
difficulties, and of what various kinds, are involved in the very attempt
to grasp distinctly the nature of any such occurrence. In the first
place there is the evidential question. We have to satisfy ourselves
that the alleged apparition was actually seen, and that it corresponded
with some objective event in such a way as to raise a strong presumption
that it had more than a merely subjective origin ; —was not due, I mean,
to some condition which affected the percipient alone, and involved the
operation of no other intelligence. This evidential question is of course
of primary importance ; and our efforts have mainly been, and for a
long time yet must mainly be directed towards the attainment of an
answer which shall carry conviction to all unbiassed minds. But
while still keeping the evidential question foremost in our regard, we
may of course at the same time endeavour to discuss some of the further
questions to which the evidence, when duly sifted, is found to point.
Thus we may ask ourselves what proportion the apparitions which we
deem veridical bear to the phantasmal figures for which we can advance
no such claim. We may ask, again, what proportion the supposed
veridical apparitions of the dead bear to veridical apparitions of living
persons, or of persons at the point of death. Such questions are likely
to be answered more fully than heretofore when the results of the
Census of Hallucinations, now being conducted in several countries for
report to the approaching International Congress of Experimental
Psychology, are laid before the public.
Furthermore it is natural to inquire as to the relation between the
frequency of veridical apparitions and the time which has elapsed since
the death of the person whose phantasm is perceived. A first provi
sional answer to this question was attempted by Mr. Gurney and
On Indicat ions of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 171
myself. (Vol. V., p. 403, sqq.) Once more, before actually committing
ourselves to any hypothesis involving so extreme a supposition as the
continued action of dead men, we may naturally inquire, as Mr.
Podmore has done (Vol. VI., p. 229, sqq.), whether these soi-disant
apparitions of the dead may not still be explained by the more familiar
conception of telepathy between the living. In my reply, which imme
diately follows Mr. Podmore's paper, I have set forth certain reasons
which seem to me to make this explanation insufficient. I am there
fore, for my part, bound to go on and to face the enormous difficulties
involved in the very idea of intercourse between an incarnate and a
discarnate mind.
Our attempt to study such intercourse may begin at either end of
the communication,—with the percipient or with the agent. Wo
shall have to ask, How does the incarnate mind receive the message 1
and we shall have to ask also, How does the discarnate mind originate
and convey it t
Now it is by pressing the former of these two questions that we
have, I think, the best chance at present of gaining fresh light. So
long as we are considering the incarnate mind we are to some extent
at least on known ground ; and we may hope to discern analogies in
some other among that mind's operations to that possibly most perplex
ing of all its operations which consists in taking cognisance of
messages from unembodied minds, and from an unseen world. I think,
therefore, that " the surest way, though most about," as Bacon would
say, to the comprehension of this sudden and startling phenomenon
lies in the study of other rare mental phenomena which can Iio
observed more at leisure ;- -just as " the surest way, though most about,"
to the comprehension of some blazing inaccessible star has lain in the
patient study of the spectra of the incandescence of terrestrial substances
which lie about our feet. I am in hopes that by the study of various
forms of subliminal consciousness, subliminal faculty, subliminal per
ception, we may ultimately obtain a conception of our own total
baing and operation which may show us the incarnate mind's percep
tion of the discarnate mind's message as no isolated anomaly, but an
orderly exercise of natural and innate powers, frequently observed in
action in somewhat similar ways.
But although approaching the problem with most hope by this
purely terrene inquiry, we must not neglect any indication which the
evidence offers as to the other and remoter side of the net of com
munication ;—as to the condition in which the discarnate mind appears
to be when communicating, or the apparent motive of his message, or
the apparent knowledge which he possesses either of what may be
passing in an unseen world, or of what has passed in this world since
his earthly death.
172 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
On none of these points, I may say at once, have we as yet any
thing more than scattered indication and dubious inference. Yet none
the less are we bound to set forth our fragments of knowledge as best
we may; -in the hope that the direction of attention to these various
points in turn may lead to wider interest in the subject, more intelli
gent observation, more careful record.
And having now a group of unpublished cases (largely due to Dr.
Hodgson's energy in collection) to offer to our readers, I take occasion
to arrange them in such a way as may throw some little light on the
last of the problems on which I have touched;—namely, the question of
continuous knowledge ;—or, How far do phantasms of the dead indicate
any acquaintance with terrestial facts of which they were not aware
while they yet lived on earth V
And here it looks as though we might best begin by asking whether
these phantasms always show a memory of facts which they did know
while on earth ;—whether we can assume that they start with at least
that equipment, while we inquire into any fresh knowledge which they
may since have gained. But this difficult question may be, I think,
more conveniently kept separate from the inquiry which I now propose,
and discussed elsewhere in connection with the more general question of
the persistence or otherwise of the same chain of memory in different
psychical states.
I proceed, therefore, to our more limited question. And here in
the first place it i3 evident that the narratives with which we have to
deal may be classed in three main groups, with reference to this special
inquiry. First we shall have cases where the phantasm is such as to
give no indication whatever of either knowledge or ignorance of what
has occurred on earth since the assumed agent's death. Secondly, the
phantasm may indicate ignorance of what has thus occurred. Thirdlv,
it may indicate knowledge;—and this in very varying degrees,—from a
mere realisation of some scene immediately following death, up to a
more than terrene comprehension of complex circumstances,—a more
than terrene power of predicting events yet to be.
On the first (and largest) of these three groups I need not linger long.
All will admit that the phantasm is usually so fugitive a thing that,
beyond its mere identification with some departed person, little or
nothing can be inferred in detail. 1 will cite in illustration a case
recently received.
G. 203.
We owe this case to the kindness of Lady Gore Booth, from whom I first
i In a paper in Vol. VI., p. 13, «(/i/., I have arranged another batch of material
in a somewhat similar way, and have given references to other published cases which
I need not here repeat. As the evidence increases it becomes needful to keep many
narratives in mind, if we are to understand any of them aright.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, dc. 173
heard the account by word of mouth. Her son (then a schoolboy aged 10) was
the percipient, and her youngest daughter, then aged 15, also gives a first
hand account of the incident as follows :—
Lissadell, Sligo, February, 1891.
On the 10th of April, 1889, at about half-past nine o'clock a.m., my
youngest brother and I were going down a short flight of stairs leading to the
kitchen, to fetch food for my chickens, as usual. We were about half way
down, my brother a few steps in advance of me, when he suddenly said—
"Why, there's John Blaney, I didn't know he was in the house!" John
Blaney was a boy who lived not far from us, and he had been employed in
the house as hall-boy not long before. I said that I was sure it was not he,
(for I knew he had left some months previously on account of ill-health), and
looked down into the passage, but saw no one. The passage was a long one,
with a rather sharp turn in it, so we ran quickly down the last few steps, and
looked round the corner, but nobody was there, and the ouly door he could
have gone through was shut. As we went upstairs my brother said, " How
pale and ill John looked, and why did he stare so 1 " I asked what he was
iloing. My brother answered that he had his sleeves turned up, and was
wearing a large green apron, such as the footmen always wear at their work.
An hour or two afterwards I asked my maid how long John Blaney had been
back in the house? She seemed much surprised, and said, "Didn't you
hear, miss, that he died this morning I " On inquiry we found he had died
about two hours before my brother saw him. My mother did not wish that
my brother should be told this, but he heard of it somehow, and at once
declared that he must have seen his ghost.
Mabel Olive Gore Booth.
The actual percipient's independent account is as follows :—
March, 1891.
We were going downstairs to get food for Mabel's fowl, when I saw John
Blaney walking round the corner. I said to Mabel, "That's John Blaney ! "
but she could not see him. When we came up afterwards we found he was
dead. He seemed to me to look rather ill. He looked yellow ; his eyes
looked hollow, and he had a green apron on.
Mordaitnt Gore Booth.
We have received the following confirmation of the date of death : —
I certify from the parish register of deaths that John Blaney (Dunfore)
was interred on the 12th day of April, 1889, having died on the 10th day of
April, 1889. P. J. Shemachs, C.C.
The Presbytery, Ballingal, Sligo.
10</i February, 1891.
Lady Gore Booth writes :— May 31«t, 1890.
When my little boy came upstairs and told us he had seen John Blaney,
we thought nothing of it till some hours after, when we heard that he was
dead. Then for fear of frightening the children, I avoided any allusion to
what he had told us, and asked everyone else to do the same. Probably by
now he has forgotten all about it, but it certainly was very remarkable,
especially as only one child saw him, and they were standing together. The
174 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
place where he seems to have appeared was in the passage outside the pantry
door, where John Bbuiey's work always took him. My boy is a very matter
of fact sort of boy, and I never heard of his having any other hallucination.
G. Gore Booth.
Now this apparition—unless we explain it as a telepathic impres
sion projected at the moment of death and rejnaining latent for some
hours before it attained externalisation—may possibly be taken as show
ing something of continued memory in the departed boy. Something of
him or from him, it may be said, reverted to well-known haunts, and
was discerned in habitual surroundings. But even of this there is no,
sure indication. If it be suggested that the dead boy waited to mani
fest until his young master reached a suitable spot, it may be replied
that the living boy's presence in that spot merely enabled him to
discern some influence which might have been discernible in that spot
possibly at any moment during some hours, if the fitting percipient had
been at hand. Or else, and perhaps more simply, we may suppose that,
there was a mere influence transmitted from the departed mind to the
living mind, which influence the living mind discerned when in sur
roundings in which its own recollection of the decedent might most
readily be evoked.i
Let us turn to the second of our three groups, the cases (if such
there be) where the phantasm appears to show ignorance of what has
taken place since the agent's death. May we ascribe to this group
certain cases already published where the phantasm seems to return to
i As bearing upon the terror which is popularly supposed to be inspired by any
manifestation of the so-called " supernatural," it is worth remarking that in cases like
the above, where the death was not known, and the phantasm appears in natural
surroundings, it frequently happens that no terror at all is felt by the percipient. On
the other hand, when the death is known (and the apparition, therefore, of no eviden
tial value), there may be extreme terror. But that terror is in itself no proof that the
phantasm in such cases is anything more than a mere after-image. I subjoin a curious
case which was sent to Dr. Hodgson by Mr. Frank Cornell, of Athens, Ont., to whom
Mr. Barnes' first letter is addressed.
" In accordance with your request to give my recent experience for the benefit of
the Society for Psychical Research,I would say : On the 4th of the present month my
grandmother, Jane Klizabeth Barnes, died, and was buried on the Gth. On Saturday
evening, the 7thinst., my father and mother drove over to my uncle's, with whom my
grandmother had resided many years previous to her death, leaving me alone. I had
no thought of being afraid, and as it became dark I lit a lamp and placed it on a table
in the room ; took my pipe and began to smoke. 1 sat thus for some time thinking
over business matters, but my thoughts were in no way connected with my grand
mothcr.
Having finished smoking, I laid my pipe on a stand near by, and my dog coming
to inc. jumped upon my lap, and I 'began to play with him. All at once I became
conscious of the presence of someone in the room, and on looking up I plainly saw my
grandmother sitting on a couch directly in front of me. I was not frightened at first,
but astonishment held me fast. I noticed her dress, the same she usually wore when
alive ; one hand rested on her lap, the other was by her side. I noticed particularly
every feature ; her face wore the same expression as in life. The distance between us
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, dc. 175
a place rather than to a person ] where, perhaps, it seems to be looking
for a person who is no longer in the accustomed place ?
I do not think that we can safely thus interpret these cases of local
attraction. For aught we know, the impulse of the discarnate mind
may have gone forth to the familiar house quite irrespective of its
present occupants. Or in some of these cases our nearest analogy may not
ba the projection of an impulse, but rather the persistence of a picture.
Tt may be that the departed person's semblance is seen in that house
because he once has been there ; and not because, in any sense, he is
there still.
But there are other cases where the phantasm seems to be not
merely attracted to a place, but absorbed in some train of thought
which was natural at the time of death, but has since become inappro
priate. Thus in Mr. Lewis's case (Proceedings, Vol. III., p. 93) the
clergyman whose visit the decedent had desired, and who would gladly
have paid that visit, had he known of the decedent's illness, saw the
phantasm, two days after death, pursuing him with a gaze of reproach.
The decedent thus appeared to prolong a feeling of resentment which he
might have learnt to be unjust.
Very similar is a case quoted in Annates des Sciences Psijchiques,
No. I., p. 31, sqq., and which may be summarised as follows :—•
^' Observation de Montpellier.
This case consists of a dream of distressing vividness, dreamt by M.
Noell, now a chemist at Cette, at 4 a.m., November 24th, 1869.
was not more than ten feet. Not until I had noted every particular did I realise the
strangeness of the occurrence. No sooner had I thought of this than fear seized me,
and I started for the door, intending to go to a neighbour some ten feet distant. I
remember nothing further until I found myself on the bed in my neighbour's house.
I am twenty-four years of age, have a good common school education, am strictly
temperate, never believed in ghosts, am not a spiritualist, had not been reading any
exciting literature. I can offer no explanation ; can say, however, that it all happened.
Athens, Leeds Co., Ont. Samuel E. Baknbs."
February Uth, 1891.
"This is to certify that on the evening of the 7th of February, about 7.30 o'clock,
I heard something fall against the door, and on opening it I found SarnnA Barnes in an
insensible condition. I took him in and used means to restore him. After some time
he said, ' I have seen,' but was too weak to finish. In the course of an hour he was
sufficiently restored to talk, and related the story as given above. I have known
B.trnes for years, and believe his testimony to be reliable. yfu Pkabce "
Athens, February Uth, 1891.
Mr. Barnes further writes to Dr. Hodgson under date January 22nd, 1892 :—
" I can say I have never fainted or become unconscious in my life except when I
saw the apparition of my grandmother. Sauvkl Barnes."
Mr. Cornell adds that Mr. Barnes does not remember anything regarding the
hehaviour of the dog, and has never had any other psychical experience. This may
have been nothing more than an after-image ; but the shock given was greater than in
most veridical cases.
17G Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
He first mentions the fact (confirmed by the register of deaths) that his
favourite sister died suddenly from diphtheria, at Perpignan, at 5 a.m. [the
official register says at 4], November 23rd, 1869. She had been perfectly
well up to within 13 hours of death. The telegrams which the family sent
to the absent brother were not delivered, owing to the fault of a servant.
" During the night of November 23-24," he proceeds, in a letter to Dr.
Dariex, dated Cette, January 7th, 1891, "I was the prey of a terrible
hallucination. I had returned to my lodgings at 2 a.m., my mind at rest, and
still dwelling upon the pleasure which I had felt during the 22nd and 23rd,
which had been spent in a party of pleasure. I went happily to bed and fell
asleep in five minutes.
"At 4 a.m. I saw before me the face of my sister, pale, covered with blood,
and lifeless, and I heard a piercing, reiterated cry : ' What are you doing,
my Louis ? Come ! come ! ' In my agitated sleep I seemed to take a
carriage ; but alas ! in spite of superhuman efforts I could not make it go on.
And I still saw my sister's face, and heard that same cry.
"I woke suddenly—my face red, my head on fire, my throat dry, but my
body streaming with perspiration. ... At eleven I reached the phar
maceutical school, a prey to an insurmountible melancholy. Questioned
by my comrades, I told them the crude fact, as I had experienced it.
. [He describes how his surviving sister came to tell him of his loss
and ths terrible shock which the news g.tve him.] Two hours afterwards,
when I had become more calm, I described to my sister my hallucination
of the previous night."
Mile. Therese Noell fully confirms her brother's recollection of the circum
stances, and of his having at once informed her of the hallucination or
dream.
Now here also the decedent appears still to be feeling grieved sur
prise at her brother's absence from her death-bed ; although a clair
voyant knowledge, had she acquired such knowledge by death, might
have informed her that his absence was due only to his non-receipt of
certain telegrams.i
We may, however, doubt whether in such cases there is any fresh
realisation of the circumstances on the decedent's part, or whether the
mood exhibited may not be a mere dreamlike prolongation of the dis
tress or anxiety which was felt at the moment of death. I cannot
recall any instances where the phantasm of a person who has been dead
for more than a few days has shown any definite misapprehension of
facts. And this notion of a prolonged dream is countenanced by cer-
i Those who believe iu telepathy, but are unwilling to extend it beyond tin-
grave, may urge that there was in fact a living mind —that of Mile. Therese Noell—
which was still perplexed as to the brother's absence,—and which perhaps dwelt on him
with special intensity as the hour of the death came round. That the interval htm
just 24 hours is rendered highly probable by the fact that M. Xoell has not
himself perceived this coincidence ;—but has placed his sister's death at 5 (instead of
4), and, through some confusion, describes his own vision at 4 a.m. as occurring
18 hours after the death.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 177
tain cases where the decedent exhibits traces of his fatal malady ;
either in his worn appearance, as in Mrs. Lewin's case (Proceedings,
Vol. V., p. 462), or in the phantasmal sound of coughing, as in a case
contributed by the Dowager Marchioness of Downshire, and not
yet published, though printed in the S.P.R. Journal, October, 1890,
p. 308.
G. 196. Visual and Auditory.
The percipient in this case is dead, and the account is, therefore, at
second hand as regards his experience ; but, as will be seen, it is at first
hand for certain important details.
December 19th, 1889.
It may have been in 1850 or soon after. We had a French cook, who
had been several years with us, named Cartel. It was in July, when he
caught a violent cold, which became inflammation of the lungs, &c, and the
man was dangerously ill. Two doctors attended him. The weather being
extremely hot, and his bedroom over the kitchen, I had him moved into a
best spare bedroom, where he continued very ill and had a fearful cough.
At last the doctors said they could do no more for him, and he was dying.
I asked their permission to try mesmerism. Of course they laughed at me,
but admitted it could do no harm. I sent for Fisher, a professional mes
merist. Cartel was mesmerised three times a day, and rapidly improved. At
the end of a fortnight the doctors (who had not given up attending him)
pronounced him out of danger, and advised Fisher being sent away. He
went, but after a day or two poor Cartel began to fail again, and died,
though I had Fisher back. As I mentioned, it was eery hot weather, and,
after the poor man's death, I had the room in which he died dismantled, the
window left open day and night, and the door locked. It remained so for
two or three months, as well as I remember, and then, as we were going to
have the house full, the furniture was all replaced, and Mr. Popham, of
Littlecote, was put into that bedroom. A day or two afterwards Mr.
Popham said, "I have seen a ghost." He then told us that the previous
night he was reading in bed, when he heard a man coughing fearfully in his
room. He could not understand it, as he could see no ime, though he
searched the room. He went on reading, and then suddenly looking up he
saw a head (only) at the foot of his bed. He described the features, which
were those of Cartel, exactly, though Mr. Popham hite never seen him, and
had never heard of his illness or death. After that several people slept in
the room, but nothing was ever seen or heard.
C. DOW.NSHIrB.
Virgil's assertion as to the persistence of bodily evils —
Non tamen omne malum miseris, nec funditus omnes
Corporee excedunt pestes—
may contain much of truth ; yet we can hardly suppose that the
central current of the intelligence of a departed spirit is unaware that
he has at any rate shaken himself clear of pulmonary microbes.
It is true that we sometimes find a moral situation apparently much
178 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
further prolonged, as in the following case, which seems intermediate
between such cases as Mrs. Lewin's and a "haunt" of the traditional
type.
G. 205.
The following narrative was sent to us with the true names, but with
a request to conceal them, and some local details, on account of the painful
nature of the incident described.
Our informant, whom I will call Mrs. M., writes under date December
15th, 1891.
''Before relating my experience of htving soon a ghost, I should like my
readers thoroughly to understand that I had not the slightest idea that the
house in which my husband and I were living was haunted, or that the family
residing there for many years before us had had any family troubles. The
house was delightfully situated [&c.]. The house being partly new and partly
old, we occupied the old part for our sleeping apartments. There were two
staircases leading to them, with a landing and window, adjoining a morning
sitting-room. One night on retiring to my bedroom about 11 o'clock, I
thought 1 heard a peculiar moaning sound, and someone sobbing as if in great
distress of mind. I listened very attentively, and still it continued ; so I
raised the gas in my bedroom, and then went to the landing window of which
I have spoken, drew the blind aside ;—and there on the grass was a very beauti
ful young girl in a kneeling posture before a soldier, in a general's uniform,
sobbing, and clasping her hands together, entreating for pardon ;—but, alas !
he only waved her away from him. So much did I feel for the girl, that
without a moment's hesitation I ran down the staircase to the door opening
upon the lawn, and begged her to come in, and tell me her sorrow. The
figures then disappeared ! Not in the least nervous did I feel then ;—went
again to my bedroom, took a sheet of writing-paper and wrote down what I
had seen. [Mis. M. has found and sent us this paper. The following words
are written in pencil on a half sheet of notepaper : " March 13th, 1886. Have
just seen visions on lawn :—a soldier in general's uniform,—a young lady
kneeling to him. 11.40 p.m."] My husband was away from home when this
event occurred, but a lady friend was staying with me, so I went to her bed
room and told her that I had been rather frightened with some noises ;—could
I stay with her a little while ? A few days afterwards I found myself in a
very nervous state ; but it seemed so strange that 1 was not frightened at the
time.
" It appears the story is only too true. The youngest daughter of this
very old, proud family had had an illegitimate child ; and her parents and
relatives would not recognise her again, and she died broken-hearted. The
soldier was a near relative (also a connection of my husband's) ; and it was in
vain she tried to gain his—the soldier's—forgiveness. [In a subsequent letter
Sir X. Y.'s career is described. He was a distinguished officer.]
"So vivid was my remembrance of the features of the soldier that some
months after the occurrence, when I happened to be calling with my husband
at a house where there was a portrait of him, I stepped before it and said :
' ^ hy, look ! There is the General ! ' And sure enough it litis."
In a subsequent letter Mrs. M. writes : " I did see the figures on the lawn
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, d-c. 179
after opening the door leading on to the lawn ; and they by no means dis
appeared instantly, but more like a dissolving view, viz., gradually ; and I did
not leave the door until they had passed away. It was impossible for any real
persons to act such a scene. . . . The General was born and died in [the
house where I saw him]. ... I was not aware that the portrait of the
General was in that room [where I saw it] ; it was the first time I had been
in that room. The misfortune to the poor girl happened in 1847 or 1848."
Mrs. M. then mentions that a respectable local tradesman, hearing of the
incident, remarked : " That is not an uncommon thing to see tier about the
place, poor soul ! She was a badly used girl.''
Mr. M. writes as follows, under date December 23rd, 1891 :—
"I have seen my wife's letter in regard to the recognition of Sir X. Y.'s
picture at . Nothing was said by me to her on the subject ; but knowing-
the portrait to be a remarkably goixl likeness I proposed calling at the
house [which was that of a nephew of Sir X. Y.'s], being anxious to see what
effect it would have on my wife. Immediately on entering the room sho
almost staggered back, and turned pale, saying— looking hard at the picture— .
' Why, there's the General ! ' . . . Being a connection of the family, I
knew all about the people, but my wife was then a stranger, and I had never
mentioned such things to her ; in fact, they had been almost forgotten."
This case may remind us of Mr. Gumey's description of a some
what similar vision (Vol. V., p. 41rt), as suggesting " the survival of a
mere image, impressed, we cannot guess how, on we cannot guess
what, by [the agent's] physical organism ; and perceptible at times to
those endowed with some cognate form of sensitiveness." We are,
indeed, always uncertain as to the degree of the decedent's active par
ticipation in post-mortem phantasms,—as to the relation of such mani
festations to the central current of his continuing individuality. But
it is in dealing with these persistent pictures of a bygone earth-scene
that this perplexity reaches its climax. They may, as I have said else
where, be the mere dreams of the dead ; —affording no true indication
of the point which the decedent's knowledge or emotion has really
reached.
Oil the whole, then, and speaking from an avowedly inadequate in
duction, I see no clear evidence that the phantasm of a person who has
been dead for more than a few days has shown definite ignorance of
events which have occurred on earth since his departure. We have
now to consider, on the other hand, to what extent phantasms have
shown definite knowledge, of such posthumous events.
This question is in the first place complicated by the difficulty of
determining of what events the decedent was in fact aware—by normal
or supernormal means —before his decease. I add here the word super
normal, because there is some evidence of a tendency to clairvoyance
on the part of dying persons. This is shown in some of our rare
"reciprocal" cases, where the dying man not only produces a tele
pathic impression upon some person at a distance, but is also apparently
180 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
aware of having in some way visited that person. Now it is obvious
that in order to produce an evidential instance of this sort of reciprocity
some very unusual circumstances must occur in conjunction. The
dying agent must mention the fact of his clairvoyant perception ; and
the distant friend whom the decedent supposes himself to be in some
way visiting must be so constituted and situated as to be able to realise
and remember the so-called visit thus made to him. Each of these
.conditions is rare ; and their accidental conjunction will therefore be
rarer still.
It is possible that we might learn much were we to question dying
persons, on their awakening from some comatose condition, as to their
memory of any dream or vision during that state. If there has in fact
been any such experience it should be at once recorded, as it will
probably fade rapidly from the patient's supraliminal memory, even if
he does not die directly afterwards. A curious case was published in
Phantasms of the Living (Vol. II., p. 305), where a dying man returns,
jis it were, from the gates of death expressly to announce that he has
had a vision, or " paid a visit," of this kind—which " visit," however,
it was not possible to verify. A somewhat similar instance, but with
ultimate recovery of the patient, Dr. Wiltse, was printed in the St.
Louis Medical and Surgical Journal, November, 1889, and in the
Mid-Continental Review, February, 1890. Dr. Wiltse has since ob
tained for us the sworn depositions of the witnesses of importance.
The experience is long, and for the most part of a thoroughly dreamlike
type ; but in any view it is extremely unusual, nor can it be fairly
understood from extracts alone. I quote, therefore, the essential part
•of the case in full.
G. 20."..
After describing his gradual sinking under an unusual disease —typhoid
fever with subnormal temperature and pulse—Dr. Wiltse (of Skiddy, Kansas)
continues as follows : —"I asked if I was perfectly in possession of my mind,
so that what I might say should be worthy of being relied upon. Being an
swered in the decided affirmative, I bade adieu to family and friends, giving
such advice and consolation to each and all as I deemed best, conversed upon
the proofs pro and eon. of immortality, and called upon each and all to take
testimony for themselves by watching the action of my mind, in the bodily
state in which they saw me, and finally, as my pupils fell open, and vision
began to fail, and my voice to weaken, feeling a sense of drowsiness come
over me, with a strong effort, I straightened my stiffened legs, got my arms
over the breast, and clasped the fast stiffening Angers, and soon sank into
utter unconsciousness.
"I passed about four hours in all without pulse or perceptible heart-beat,
as I am informed by Dr. S. H. Raynes, who was the only physician present.
During a portion of this time several of the bystanders thought I was dead,
and such a report being carried outside, the village church bell was tolled.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, Jsc. 181
Dr. Raynes informs me, however, that by bringing his eyes close to my face,
he could perceive an occasional short gasp, so very light as to be barely per
ceptible, and that he was upon the point, several times, of saying, ' He is.
dead,' when a gasp would occur in time to check him. [See Dr. Raynes, p. 193.J
" He thrust a needle deep into the flesh at different points from the feet
to the hips, but got no response. Although I was pulseless about four hours,
this state of apparent death lasted only about half an hour.
" I lost, I believe, all power of thought or knowledge of existence in abso
lute unconsciousness. Of course, I need not guess at the time so lost, as in
such a state a minute or a thousand years would appear the same. I came
again into a state of conscious existence and discovered that I was still in the
body, but the body and I had no longer any interests in common. I looked
in astonishment and joy for the first time upon myself—the me, the real
Ego, while the not me closed it upon all sides like a sepulchre of clay.
"With all the interest of a physician, I beheld the wonders of my bodily
anatomy, intimately interwoven with which, even tissue for tissue, was 1,
the living soul of that dead body. I learned that the epidermis was the out
side boundary of tlus ultimate tissues, so to speak, of the soul. I realised my
condition and reasoned calmly thus. I have died, as men term death, and
yet I am as much a man as ever. I am about to get out of the body. I
watched the interesting process of the separation of soul and body. By some
power, apparently not my own, the Ego was rocked to and fro, laterally, as.
a cradle is rocked, by which process its connection with the tissues of the
body was broken up. After a little time the lateral motion ceased, and
along the soles of the feet beginning at the toes, passing rapidly to the heels,
I felt and heard, as it seemed, the snapping of innumerable small cords.
When this was accomplished I began slowly to retreat from the feet, toward
the head, a.s a rubber coitl shortens. I remember reaching the hips and say
ing to myself, ' Now, there is no life below the hips.' I can recall no
memory of passing through the abdomen and chest, but recollect distinctly
when my whole self was collected into the head, when I reflected thus : I am
all in the head now, and I shall soon be free. I passed around the brain as
if I were hollow, compressing it and its membranes, slightly, on all sides,
toward the centre and peeped out between the sutures of the skull, emerg
ing like the flattened edges of a bag of membranes. I recollect distinctly how
I appeared to myself something like a jelly fish as regards colour and form.
As I emerged, I saw two ladies sitting at my head. I measured the distances
between the head of my cot and the knees of the lady opposite the head and
concluded there Was room for me to stand, but felt considerable embarrass
ment as I reflected that I was about to emerge naked before her, but com
forted myself with the thought that in all probability she could not see me
with her bodily eyes, as I was a spirit. As I emerged from the head I
floated up and down and laterally like a soap-bubble attached to the bowl of a
pipe until I at last broke loose from the body and fell lightly to the floor,
where I slowly rose and expanded into the full stature of a man. I seemed
to be translucent, of a bluish cast and perfectly naked. With a painful sense
of embarrassment I fled toward the partially opened door to escape the eyes
of the two ladies whom I was facing as well as others whom I knew were
about me, but upon reaching the door I found myself clothed, and satisficd
182 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
upon that point I turned and faced the company. As I turned, my left
elbow came in contact with the arm of one of two gentlemen, who were
standing in the door. To my surprise, his arm passed through mine without
apparent resistance, the severed parts closing again without pain, as air re
unites. I looked quickly up at his face to see if he had noticed the contact,
but he gave me no sign,—only stood and gazed toward the couch I had just left.
I directed my gaze in the direction of his, and saw my own dead body. It
was lying just as I had taken so much pains to place it, partially upon the
right side, the feet close together and the hands clasped across the breiist. I
was surprised at the paleness of the face. I had not looked in a glass for
some days and had imagined that I was not as pale as most very sick people
are. I congratulated myself upon the decency with which I had composed
the body and thought my friends would have little trouble on that score.
'' I saw a number of persons sitting and standing about the body, and parti
cularly noticed two women apparently kneeling by my left side, and 1 knew
that they were weeping. 1 have since learned that they were my wife and
my sister, but I had no conception of individuality. Wife, sister, or friend
were as one to me. I did not remember any conditions of relationship ; at
least I did not think of any. I could distinguish sex, but nothing further.
''I now attempted to gain the attention of the people with the object of
comforting them as well as assuring them of their own immortality. I bowed
to them playfully and saluted with my right hand. I passed about among
them also, but found that they gave me no heed. Then the situation struck
me as humorous and I laughed outright.
"They certainly must have heard that, 1 thought, but it seemed otherwise,
for not one lifted their eyes from my body, It did not once occur to me to
speak and I concluded the matter by saying to myself : ' They see only with
the eyes of the body. They cannot see spirits. They are watching what
they think is I, but they are mistaken. That is not I. This is I and I am
as much alive as ever.'
"I turned and passed out at the open door, inclining my head and watch
ing where 1 set my feet as 1 stepped down on to the porch.
''I crossed the porch, descended the steps, walked down the path and into
the street. There I stopped and looked about me. I never saw that street
more distinctly than I saw it then. I took note of the redness of the soil and
of the washes the rain had made. I took a rather pathetic look about me,
like one who is about to leave his home for a long time. Then I discovered
that I had become larger than I was in earth life and congratulated myself
thereupon. I was somewhat smaller in the body than I just liked to be, but
in the next life, I thought, I am to be as I desired.
"My clothes, I noticed, had accommodated themselves to my increased
stature, and I fell to wondering where they came from and how they got on to
me so cpjickly and without my knowledge. I examined the fabric and judged
it to be of some kind of Scotch material, a good suit, I thought, but not hand
some ; still, neat and good enough. The coat fits loosely too, and that is
well for summer. ' How well I feel,' I thought. ' Ouly a few minutes ago I
was horribly sick and distressed. Then came that change, called death, which
I have so much dreaded. It is past now, and here am I still a man, alive
and thinking, yes, thinking as clearly as ever, and how well I feel, I shall
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, d-c. 183
never be sick again. I have no more to die.' And in sheer exuberance of
spirits I danced a figure, and fell again to looking at my form and clothes.
'' Suddenly I discovered that I was looking at the straight seam down the
back of my coat. How is this, I thought, how do I see my Imck I and I
looked again, to reassure myself, down the back of the coat, or down the
back of my legs to the very heels. I put my hand to my face and felt for my
eyes. They are where they should be, I thought. Am I like an owl that I
can turn my head half way round ? I tried the experiment and failed.
"No ! Then it must be that having been out of the body, but a few
moments, I have yet the power to use the eyes of my body, and I turned
about and looked back in at the open door, where I could see the head of my
body in a line with me. I discovered then a small cord, like a spider's web,
running from my shoulders back to my body and attaching to it at the base
of the neck in front.
" I was satisfied with the conclusion that by means of that cord, I was
using the eyes of my body, and turning, walked down the street.
"I had walked but a few steps when I again lost my consciousness, and
when I again awoke found myself in the air, where I was upheld by a pair of
hands, which I could feel pressing lightly against my sides. The owner of
the hands, if they had one, was behind me, and was shoving me through the
air at a swift but a pleasant rate of speed. By the time I fairly realised
the situation 1 was pitched away and floated easily down a few feet, alighting
gently upon the beginning of a narrow, but well built roadway, inclined
upward at an angle of something less than 45deg.
" I looked up and could see sky and clouds above me at the usual height.
I looked down and saw the tops of green trees and thought : It is as far
down to the tree tops as it is high to the clouds.
"As I walked up the road, I seemed to face nearly north. I looked over
the right side of the road and under it could see the forest, but discovered
naught to support the roadway, yet I felt no fear of its falling. I examined
the material of which it was built. It was built of milky quartz and fine
sand. I picked up one of the gravels and looked at it particularly. I dis
tinctly remember that it had a dark speck in the centre. I brought it close
to the eye and so discovered that it was a small hole apparently caused by
chemical action of some metal. There had been a recent rain, and the cool
ness was refreshing to me. I noticed that, although the grade was steep, I
felt no fatigue in walking, but my feet seemed light, and my step buoyant
as the step of childhood, and as I walked I again reverted to my late con
dition of illness and rejoiced in my perfect health and strength. Then a
sense of great loneliness came over me and I greatly desired company, so I
reasoned thus : Someone dies every minute. If I wait twenty minutes the
chances are great that someone in the mountains will die, and thus I shall
have company. I waited, and while so doing surveyed the scenery about me.
To the east was a long line of mountains, and the forest underneath me
.extended to the mountains, up their sides and out on to the mountain top.
Underneath me lay a forest-clad valley, through which ran a beautiful river
full of shoals, which cause! the water to ripple in white sprays. I thought
the river looked much like the Emerald River, and the mountains, I thought,
as strongly resembled Waldron's Ridge. On the left of the road was a high
184 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
bluff of black stone, and it reminded me of Lookout Mountain, where the
railroad passes between it and the Tennessee River. Thus memory, judg
ment, and imagination, the three great faculties of the mind, were intact and
active.
"I waited for company, what I judged to be twenty minutes ; but no one
came. Then I reasoned thus: It is probable that when a man dies he has his
individual road to travel and must travel it alone. As no two men are ex
actly alike, so, most likely, no two travel the same road into the other world.
I reflected that as eternal existence was now assured, I had no need to hurry,
and so walked very leisurely along, now stopping and looking at the scenery,
or looking back over the road if, perchance, someone might come along, and
occasionally turning and walking backward, and thus watching the road
. behind me for company I so strongly desired. I thought certainly some one
from the other world would be out to meet me, though strangely, enough, I
thought of no person whom above others I desired to see. Angels or fiends,
one, I said, will come out to meet me—I wonder which it will be ? I
reflected that I had not believed all the Church tenets, but had written and
taught verbally a new and, I believed, a better faith. But, I reasoned, I
knew nothing, and where there is room for doubt there is room for mistake.
I may, therefore, be on my way to a terrible doom. And here occurred a
thing hard to describe. At different points about me I was aware of the
expressed thought, 'Fear not, you are safe !' I heard no voice, I saw no
person, yet I was perfectly aware that at different points, at varying distances
from me, someone was thinking that thought for my benefit, but how I was
made aware of it was so great a mystery that it staggered my faith in its
reality. A great fear and doubt came over me and I was beginning to be
very miserable, when a face so full of ineffable love and tenderness appeared
to me for an instant as set me to rights upon that score.
" Suddenly I saw at some distance ahead of me three prodigious rocks
blocking the road, at which sight I stopped, wondering why so fair a road
should be thus blockaded, and while I considered what I was to do, a great
and dark cloud, which I compared to a cubic acre in size, stood over my head.
Quickly it became filled with living, moving bolts of fire, which darted hither
and thither through the cloud. They were not extinguished by contact with
the cloud, for I could see them in the cloud as one sees fish in deep water.
"The cloud became concave on the under surface like a great tent and
began slowly to revolve upon its perpendicular axis. When it had turned
three times, I was aware of a presence, which I could not see, but which I
knew was entering into the cloud from the southern side. The presence did
not seem, to my mind, as a form, because it filled the cloud like some vast
intelligence. He is not as I, I reasoned : I fill a little space with my form,
and when I move the space is left void, but he may fill immensity at his will,
even as he fills this cloud. Then from the right side and from the left of the
cloud a tongue of black vapour shot forth and rested lightly upon either side
of my head, and as they touched me thoughts not my own entered into my
brain.
"These, I said, are his thoughts and not mine ; they might be in Greek or
Hebrew for all power I have over them. But how kindly am I addressed in
my mother tongue that so I may understand all his will.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, iL-c. 185
"Yet, although the language was English, it was so eminently above my
power to reproduce that my rendition of it is as far short of the original as
any translation of a dead language is weaker than the original ; for instance,
the expression, 'This is the road to the eternal world,' did not contain over
four words, neither did any sentence in the whole harangue, and every
sentence, had it been written, must have closed with a period, so complete
was the sense. The following is as near as I can render it :— .
" 'This is the road to the eternal world. Yonder rocks are the boundary
between the two worlds and the two lives. Once you pass them, you can no
more return into the body. If your work was to write the things that have
been taught you, waiting for mere chance to publish them, if your work was
to talk to private individuals in the privacy of friendship—if this was all, it
is done, and you may pass beyond the rocks. If, however, upon considera
tion you conclude that it shall be to publish as well as to write what you are
taught, if it shall be to call together the multitudes and teach them, it is not
done and you can return into the body.'
"The thoughts ceased and the cloud passed away, moving slowly toward the
mountain in the east. I turned and watched it for some time when, suddenly,
and without having felt myself moved, I stood close to and in front of the
three rocks. I was seized with a strong curiosity then to look into the next
world.
"There were four entrances, one very dark, at the left between the
wall of black rock and the left hand one of the three rocks, a low archway,
between the left hand and the middle rock, and a similar one between that
and the right hand rock, and a very narrow pathway running around the
right hand rock at the edge of the roadway.
"I did not examine the opening at the left—I know not why, unless it was
because it appeared dark, but I knelt at each of the low archways and looked
through. The atmosphere was green and everything seemed cool and quiet
and beautiful. Beyond the rocks, the roadway, the valley, and the mountain
range curved gently to the left, thus shutting off the view at a short distance.
If I were only around there, I thought, I should soon see angels or devils or
both, and as I thought this, I saw the forms of both as I had often pictured
them in my mind. I looked at them closely and discovered that they were
not realities, but the mere shadowy forms in my thoughts, and that any form
might be brought up in the same way. What a wonderful world, I exclaimed,
mentally, where thought is so intensified as to take visible form. How
happy shall I be in such a realm of thought as that.
'' I listened at the archways for any sound of voice or of music, but could
hear nothing. Solid substances, I thought, are better media of sound than
air, I will use the rocks as media, and I rose and placed my left ear to first
one rock and then the other throughout, but could hear nothing.
" Then suddenly I was tempted to cross the boundary line. I hesitated
and reasoned thus : ' I have died once and if I go back, soon or late, I must
die again. If I stay someone else will do my work, and so the end will be
as well and as surely accomplished and shall I die again ? I will not, but now
that I am so near I will cross the line and stay.' So determining I moved
cautiously along the rocks. There was danger of falling over the side of the.
o
186 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
road, for the pathway around was but narrow. I thought not of the archways,
I placed my back against the rock and walked sideways.
•* I reached the exact centre of the rock, which I knew by a carved knob in
the rock marking the exact boundary. Here, like Ctesar at the Rubicon, I
halted and parleyed with conscience. It seemed like taking a good deal of
responsibility, but I determined to do it, and advanced the left foot across the
line. As I did so, a small, densely black cloud appeared in front of me and
advanced toward my face. I knew that I was to be stopped. I felt the
power to move or to think leaving me. My hands fell powerless at my side,
my shoulders and head dropped forward, the cloud touched my face and I
knew no more.
" Without previous thought and without apparent effort on my part, my
eyes opened. I looked at my hands and then at the little white cot upon
which I was lying, and realising that I was in the body, in astonishment and
disappointment, I exclaimed : What in the world has happened to me ? Must
I die again ?
"I was extremely weak, but strong enough to relate the above experience
despite all injunctions to quiet. Soon afterward I was seized with vomiting,
severe and uncontrollable. About this time Doctor J. H. Sewel, of Rock-
wood, Tenn., called upon a friendly visit, not knowing I was sick. I was
hiccoughing terribly and in consultation he said, ' Nothing short of n
miracle, I fear, can save him.'
"After many days, it seemed to me, the temperature began to creep up and
soon ran above normal, but only a little, wavered back and forth for a few
days and settled at a half degree below where it remained during the greater
part of convalescence, when it mounted to normal, the pulse mounted to
above fifty for keeps, as boys say at marbles, then went to seventy-six and I
made a rapid and good recovery, for having travelled some hundreds of miles
during the interval, as I close this paper my pulse stands at eighty-four and
is strong, just eight weeks from ' the day I died,' as some of my neighbours
speak of it.
•'There are plenty of witnesses to the truth of the above statements, in so
far as my physical condition was concerned. Also to the fact that just as I
described the conditions about my body and in the room, so they actually
were. I must, therefore, have seen these things by some means."
In a letter to Dr. Hodgson, Dr. Wiltse adds :—
"In reply will say that I have delayed answer to this date in order to
interview several persons who have followed me from Tennessee to this
State, and who were eye-witnesses to my physical condition at the time of
my strange experience.
'' I have questioned six of these persons upon the points at issue and find,
according to their testimony, the facts to bo as stated in answers to your
questions.
"The parties named below were present during the phenomena mentioned
in your letter. If desirable, you can interview them. I give their present
address : Mr. and Mrs. Carpenter, Miss Sara E. Wiltse, 318, Washington-
street, Dorchester, Mass.
"With modern Spiritism I can hardly affiliate, although I do not fail to
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, dc. 1ST
make all the investigations I can, but I generally find an explanation short of
the claims set up."
Questions.
Statement.—You perceived two gentlemen standing in the door.
1. Q. : Were they actually standing in the door 1 A. : They were.
2. Q. : Was your face as pale as you perceived it to be ? A. : It was
much p:iler as compared with some days before, but one witness states that,
as compared with only a short time before becoming unconscious, the face
appeared of a dark purple hue.
3. Q. : Did you not recognise any person at all among those whom you
perceived in the room ? A. : I had no thought of names nor ideas of relation
ship. I had a strong sense of good fellowship, if I may so term it, but my
interest in each seemed alike. I must have forgotten all personalities.
4. Q. : Did the washes which you perceived the rain to have made actually
exist ? A. : They did to a marked degree, there having been heavy rains for
many days consecutively.
5. Q. : Did the fabric in which you seemed to be clothed resemble any
which you had ever worn ? A. : It did not, and I distinctly recollect
thinking that I had no such clothing in the house, although it did not then
occur to me that I had never possessed such a suit. I think, however, that
my brother who was visiting me had on something such a suit, but cannot bo
certain, as I cannot learn that I made any reference to any suit in the room
as being like it while rehearsing my experience after awaking. If I could see
a suit like it I should recognise it at once.
6. Q. : Were you previously familiar with the notion that a delicate thread,
in cases of trance, connects the ethereal organism with the ordinary body i
A. : Yes, and this will seem to you a c:tse of expectancy. I deem it fair to
your Society to state, however, that so far from believing the theory was I
that in a volume of fiction upon which I am engaged I had set down an
entirely different theory as emanating from one of the characters who is made
to teach my own private views strongly enough. When I discovered the
thread my mind did not go back to any previous recollections or ideas upon
the subject, as I should suppose would naturally be the case.
Dr. Wiltse adds, June 30th, 1890 :—
"In accordance with your request in letter of June 18th for evidential
statements I have obtained three sworn statements, which I send herewith."
if
Statement of Mrs. Haidee I, Wiltse.
Skiddy, Kas., Jane 27t%, 1890.
Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Sir,—I was present at the bedside of my husband during that time in
his sickness last summer that his physician and friends supposed him to be
dying, some even believing he was dead.
His condition of unconsciousness lasted, I suppose, about half an hour,
during which I could see no sign of life in him. Still, I did not really believe
him to be dead, nor did I give up all hope of his recovery, for reasons stated.
0 2
188 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
further on in this letter. This notwithstanding the fact that the physician
in attendance told me that he was certainly dying.
After remainingdike on« dead to appearance (from where I was) for some
time, he suddenly opened his eyes and said, " Must I die again ?"
I told him he had not died yet. But he said ho had died, and began to
tell what he had seen, when his physician made him stop talking. He per
sisted for a little, but finally yielded, said ho would tell us all after a while
why he had come back, saying he had seen something wonderful, and should
never doubt of immortality again.
As to the other matters, I do not recollect.
The reason I did not believe he was going to die was this : I have several
times in my life dreamed of seeing a white horse and a black horse harnessed
in a carriage and running through the air over an open field and disap
pearing in a forest on the opposite side. Some friend of mine sits in the
carriage and is recognised by me, who invariably dies a few days afterwards.
A few days before the doctor was taken sick I saw him in that carriage.
But the dream varied in this, that I ran and caught the white horse by tho bits,
just before they got into the wood, and so stopped them. So strangely had
I come to believe in this dream, that I kept believing in it clear through. I
told the dream to the doctor the next morning after I dreamed it, and he
laughed at me. —Very respectfully,
Mrs. Haidee Wiltse.
Morris County, State of Kansas, S.S.
Mrs. Haidee Wiltse, being duly sworn, deposes and says that she is well
acquainted with all the facts stated in the above, and that she signed the
above with her free will and accord.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, a Notary Public in and for Morris
County, State of Kansas, this 30th day of June, a.d. 1890.
H. S. Miller, Notary Public,
Com. Ex., March 2Ut, 1892.
Statement of A. J. Howard.
Skiddy, Kas., June 29th, 1890.
Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Sir,—I was chosen by Dr. Wiltse, during his sickness last summer, as
the one who could turn and lift him easiest, which arrangement kept me by
his bedside a large share of the time.
One day (I forget the date) he seemed much worse, so that the family
and neighbours thought he was dying.
I took Dr. S. H. Raynes, the only attending physician present, out into
the porch, and asked him to tell me confidentially what he thought of the
case. He said, " A gone case ; he is as good as dead now." He was fixing
a hypodermic syringe, and I asked about it, and he said he was making
ready to give the doctor an injection of morphine, in case he should have
spasms while dying. This was not done, however.
Doctor Wiltse called to him just then, and said, " Doctor, as soon as I
am dead try that experiment, and be sure you don't put it off so late that
you have no chance of a positive result. It is worth looking into." Ho
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, d-c. 189
spoke of this several times, and exacted a promise from some of us that it
should be tried. It was, I have since learned, to inject ether to see if he
would speak, and what he would say.
He told us to leave room in front of the window, that he might have
light, and that if he should see anything that would prove immortality he
would tell us, if he had strength even to whisper, and would tell us the
truth. He afterwards spoke of a light, but after being silent for some time
said he understood tho philosophy of the light, that it was a natural occur
rence, and explained it to us. He had spells of quiet, like he was going
down, but would rouse out of them and talk. He called to one of the
neighbours, who was sitting at his right foot rubbing it, and said, '' Look
now, Mr. Fordham, we have talked a good deal about immortality. I see
you rubbing my foot, but I have only sight to tell me. I cannot feel you ;
my body is about dead. But did you ever see my mind clearer ? It is not
dying yet." Mr. Fordham said, "I never saw anything like it." Dr.
Wiltse said, " This is my last argument. Do you begin to be convinced?"
Soon after this he closed his eyes, and seemed to become entirely uncon
scious. I did not think him entirely dead, although many did. After about
half an hour he suddenly opened his eyes and looked about as if greatly
surprised, and said, "Do I have to die again ?" He then told us not to be
scared any more, for he should get well ; that his work was not finished, and
he was to live until it was. He said he had been to the other world, and
began to tell of things he had seen, and said we were immortal. Dr. Raynes
made him stop talking several times ; but ho would soon begin again, and so
in a short time he had told by piecemeal that same story which has since
been printed, and which he has read to me before it was printed and since,
to see if it was stated as I remembered it. I came to Kansas along with
him, and so saw the story before it was printed, and it is just as he first
told, so far as the incidents are concerned, and he must have thought it
up mighty quick if it is not true.
I distinctly remember that while he was sleeping, Mrs. Wiltse and the
doctor's sister—Miss Sara E. Wiltse—were sitting at his left side. There
were also some women at his head. There were also some men in the door
—I think Mr. H. M. Wiltse, the doctor's brother, and Dr. Raynes.
The washes in the street during the doctor's sickness were considerably
deepened and widened, as the street in front of his house has a heavy
grade. I am sure it showed a good deal of difference from the last time he
saw it before that to the day he so nearly died, as it rained a great deal in
the time.
A. J. Howard.
State of Kansas, Morris County, S.S.
A. J. Howard, being duly sworn, deposes and says that all the facts
stated in the within and attached instrument are true, according to his
judgment and belief.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, a Notary Public in and for Morris
County, State of Kansas.
H. S. Miller, Notary Public,
Com. Ex., March 21st, 1892.
190 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
William T. Howard.
Skiddy, Morris Co., Kas., June 28</i, 1890.
Mr. Richard Hodgson, Boston.
Sir,—I was with Dr. A. S. Wiltse and helped to nurse him for many
days while sick in Tennessee about a year ago. I was present on that
day when his friends and his physician supposed he was dying. He
was several hours without pulse that I could discover, and the physician,
Dr. S. H. Raynes, reported the same also. I asked Dr. Raynes privately
about his chances for life, and was told that it was utterly impossible for him
to recover, as he was already dying. I was greatly agitated at this intelligence
until Dr. Wiltse asked his friends to be very quiet and attentive that so they
might watch very closely for any sign he might be able to give which
might be proof to them of immortality as a fact instead of a mere hope or
belief. He asked if the physician was well satisfied that his mind was clear,
so that what he might say should be entirely worthy of belief. Dr. Raynes
told him it was as clear as any well man's. Dr. Wiltse said he felt that it
was, and I must say that I never saw anyone exhibit greater clearness of
intellect.
Dr. Wiltse then said that we should stand close by him, as his voice was
weak, so that we could hear even a whisper, and that if he saw anything that
was a proof he would tell us, and that what he might tell us we could rely
upon.
The pupils of his eyes fell open and so his sight began to fail so that he
complained of it, when he said he saw a light at the end of the room in
the window, but soon after said he had discovered what it was, and ex
plained it upon some scientific plan which I do not recollect, but which
seemed reasonable.
I became so interested in his talk that I no longer felt excited, and went
and stood by his head that I might hear any words he might speak. I think
all in the room must have felt the same, for I noticed that most of them
stopped crying, and crowded about him as if they wished and expected to
hear something curious and interesting.
His eyes finally closed, and he lay for some time like one dead. I don't
know how long, when he suddenly opened his eyes and, as if greatly surprised,
said vehemently, ' ' What in the world has happened ? Is it possible that I
have to die again ? "
He then began to tell us of things he had seen, but the attending
physician interfered and said he must not talk. Dr. Wiltse then said he
would tell us all about it before long, and soon after told the same story
substantially as he has since published.
As to matters seen by him about the room, &c, I distinctly recollect that
the door was standing partly open and that two men stood in it a portion of
the time, although I do not feel certain who they were. It rained a good deal
while he was sick, but did not rain on this particular day, but was a bright
day. I have no doubt that the washes in the street had changed a good deal
from what they had been when he last saw them with his natural eyes. I
recollect also that there were some women sitting at his head, although I am
not certain how many. I heard him relate his strange experience the first
time soon after ho awoke, and have heard him relate it probably to a score or
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 101
more of people since and twice to audiences, and have purposely watched tot
any contradictory statements which might throw doubt upon its entire truth
fulness. Have also read his published statement, but in all he has never
crossed his statements. His experience has evidently made a strong impres
sion upon him, for I have never heard him express any doubts as to immor
tality since, although before that he had often expressed fear and doubt upon
the subject.'—Yours truly,
W. T. Howard.
State of Kansas, Morris County, S.S.
William T. Howard, being duly sworn, says the above is true in all the
matters there stated.
W. T. Howard.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, a Notary Public in and for Morris
County, State of Kansas.
H. S. Miujer, Notary Public,
Com. Ex., March 21st, 1892.
Miss Sara E. Wiltse, Corunna, Mich.
Corunna, Michigan, Jidy 10th, 1890.
Mr. Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—I cannot make this statement as brief as I would like because
the value of it depends upon some of the details.
Dr. A. S. Wiltse is my brother, and had I supposed his illness other than
a fatal one, I should certainly have made notes upon his condition from day
to day. I think his record in the St. Louis Medical and Surgical Journal
remarkably clear and exact, even as to our positions beside what we supposed
to be his dying bed. Mr. and Mrs. Carpenter read that report with me on
its first appearance, and found it in harmony with what we knew or could
recall of the circumstances, except that I thought my brother was mistaken
about my position beside his cot, but both Mr. and Mrs. Carpenter assure me
that my memory and not that of my brother is at fault in that particular.
Mrs. Carpenter is in ill-health and I would not like her to review this painful
subject at present, otherwise she would respond to your request for a
statement.
When my brother, Hon. H. M. Wiltse, and Mr. and Mrs. Carpenter
came in response to my telegram, we agreed there should be no moment of
what we supposed would be the brief remainder of Dr. Wiltse's life, when he
could not see or touch either his brother, his sister, or his niece, the only
ones present who were part of the old home circle. We also resolved that, at
whatever cost to us, he should be troubled by no tears or sorrowful tones.
Dr. Wiltse has, and has always had, very strong tendencies to beliefs in the
supernatural, and has been a ghost hunter, visiting "haunted" houses and
inquiring into all popular superstitions that he could find about him. His
brother, Henry M. Wiltse, is a lawyer, with little patience with such
speculations. I am a teacher, believing strongly in the immortality of the
soul, but not in ghostly visitors, though all phenomena of this nature were
a favourite topic between Dr. Wiltse and myself. I claimed that a person
who saw spirits was in an abnormal condition, and needed medical treat
ment, assuring him whenever I should see one I would send for him if he
192 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
•would bring his lancet and powders. Mr. Carpenter, also a teacher, is
something of a modern Theosophist, and Mrs. Carpenter is a music teacher
of decidedly practical turn of mind, believing in the possibility of seeing a
disembodied spirit, but never dwelling upon the subject, being rather reticent
about the most serious matters. Such were our mental attitudes when wo
gathered for what we supposed our last earthly meeting. The physicians in
attendance I never met until that week, and I do not now know what their
beliefs are.
My brother longed for some Heavenly vision. I think he was profoundly
disappointed because he saw no angels and heard no seraphs, for previous to
his unconsciousness he expressed surprise that he should be so near the other
life and get no impression of it through his bodily senses. I remember per
fectly his attention to his failing sight, his measurement of the decreasing
length of vision, and his report of the growing dimness while his voice was yet
tolerably clear. He often appealed to us to know if wo still believed in tho
life eternal even in that presence, and it seemed to increase his hopefulness
that we believed without aid of unaccountable sights or sounds, and while
longing for some remarkable revelation, he yet rejoiced in his mental vigour,
and occasionally asked the doctor in attendance if he seemed to him to be
wandering in the least, for he should be sorry not to be in full possession of
his mental faculties when body and spirit separated.
I remember perfectly the attempt he made to straighten his stiffening
limbs, for, although he could not speak, he smiled his thanks for tho service
I rendered by helping him in that last physical effort. I thought he could
feel my touch, and believed he saw my face, and so I would not give way to
tears. It was not until we were sure that all his bodily senses had failed that I
allowed myself to cry; therefore his singularly well remembered train of
thought about his soul, and his observance of his weeping wife and sister, must
have occurred while he was apparently unconscious, and after the doctor had
pronounced life extinct.
That it was not an ordinary or even extraordinary delusion of a fevered
brain seems proven by his continued clearness of mind ; there was none of the
usual delirium of fever at any time during his illness, even during those days
that are a blank in his memory. I think he was perfectly cognisant of the
present moment, its symptoms and his attendants, during all of the time that
he was conscious, but he could not remember from hour to hour what
medicines had been administered. He prescribed for himself with admirable
skill, but had to ask the other doctors if that remedy had already been tried,
and was as professionally courteous to them as if he had been in consultation
over some other patient. I remember his telling them that he did not forget
that he was the sick man, and would not oppose the opinion of the patient
to that of the doctors, and showed none of the bravado which a delirious
doctor might have felt. I sat up with him many nights in succession, a
physician sleeping in his office, and when there was any alarming change in
his condition he would tell mo what to give instantly—if there seemed no
time to lose in calling for aid, always insisting afterwards that I should speak
to the doctor to make sure the remedy was approved by a physician in
health. These alarming conditions came on very suddenly, and wero
extremely dangerous, but Dr. Wiltse's coolness and good judgment wero
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 193
invariably commended by the other doctors ; his failure of memory finally
interfered with the safety of his own advice, but his judgment even then was
perfectly sound, and there was no muddling of symptoms or treatment.
The fever was of a very uncommon type, and one of the attending
physicians had a book with descriptions of a like case. Dr. Wiltse wanted it
to read, but the other doctor pretended he forgot to bring it, telling me there
were points that my brother should not read up under the circumstances,
and my brother felt hurt that a doctor could forget at such a time. Happily
he himself forgot the book before many hours. All these recollections are to
show my brother's mental and physical condition as I observed it in that
illness.
I have had typhoid fever myself, and have seen several cases of it, having
been with a cousin several days previous to and during all of his dying hours.
I have seen several people die of various diseases, and am sadly familiar
with the symptoms of approaching death. I had no hope whatever of my
brother's recovery after the convulsions set in, although I joined in every
effort made to prolong his life.
His sinking and all the preceding symptoms were so like death that I
always think of the occasion as "when he died," and have to think twice
before I can speak with precision of the time when he seemed to die.
It seems to mo that the psychological value of this phenomenon lies in the
probable activity of the mind during apparent unconsciousness, and not in
any guesses that may be hazarded about relations of life and death which
might be based upon it, although one must reverence the opinion of any who
think as some of the good mountain people do, that Dr. Wiltse actually died
and came to life again.—Very respectfully yours,
Sara E. Wiltse.
Finally, we have now obtained the account of the doctor in attendance,
as follows :—
Kismet, Morgan Co., Tennessee, March 31st, 1892.
'Mr. R. Hodgson, LL.D.
Dear Sir,—I was the attending physician present when Dr. A. S. Wiltse
lay apparently dead in August, 1889. I observed his symptoms closely, and
if there are any symptoms marking a patient as in articvlo mortis that were
not presented in his case, I am ignorant of them. I supposed at one time that
he was actually dead as fully as I ever supposed anyone dead. I thrust a
needle deep into the flesh at different points, and got no sign of sensibility.
There was no pulse and no perceptible heart-sounds. The breath was, so
far as observable, absolutely suspended.
S. H. Raynes, M.D.
Some readers, perhaps, may smile at this highly modernised
parallel to the death scene of the Phaido. But surely Socrates would
himself have been the first to approve Dr. Wiltse's resolute attempt to
substitute knowledge for opinion in this weightiest of all crises. Nor
need we find anything irreverent in this absorption in experiment in
the face of advancing Death. Death's " truer name," the Laureate has
said, " is Onward"; and for an agnostic, at least, no attitude in the
194 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
last earthly hour can be more manful than the desire that his own
parting experience should leave light and hope for other men.
Here, at any rate, whatever view we take as to the source or the
content of Dr. Wiltse's vision, the fact remains that the patient,
while in a comatose state, almost pulseless, and at a temperature much
below the normal, did, nevertheless, undergo a remarkably vivid series
of mental impressions. It is plain, therefore, that we may err in
other cases by assuming prematurely that all power of perception or
inference has ceased.
Setting aside the manifestly dream-like or symbolical element of the
vision, we observe that Dr. Wiltse believes that his perception of the
people in the room, and of the rain-washed streets outside, was of a
clairvoyant type. But this cannot be proved ; for the picture of the
streets might be due to unconscious inference ; and some acuteness of
perception, like that of the lethargic hypnotised subject, might account
for his knowledge of movements in the room made after his eyes were
closed. However this may be, it is probable that if he had actually
died, and if some kind of message from him had been subsequently
received, that message might have included facts as to the scene of
death which the survivors would have believed to have been unknown
to him while still living, but which he did in fact acquire during his
comatose condition. •
G. 207.
The following narrative, while lacking both the precision and the corrobo
ration of Dr. Wiltse's record, indicates a more marked clairvoyance,—exer
cised, singularly enough, under very similar conditions of deathly cold.
The Rev. L. J. Bertrand (Huguenot minister) gave Dr. Hodgson an oral
account of this experience, and has now sent it in writing to Professor W.
James. The case is very remote ; but although the details cannot be trusted
at this distance of time, the main fact of the clairvoyance in extremis, and
of the practical joke played on the guide, can hardly have crept unawares
into the story. M. Bertrand's memory of Switzerland, I may add, seems
pretty clear.
Neuilly, Seine, 14 Bis, Rue Borghese, October 10th, 1891.
Dear Dr. James,—Excuse me, but since your last kind letter, illness and
death have come in my family ; then I have been obliged to visit Belgium,
then to help my societies, &c , &c. I have had no time for answers.
Many people remembering my accident on the Titlis answer me, but
they exaggerate everything ; others have only a vague notion, and because I
am alive, I am surprised to find how many have died during the last 30
years ; how many have disappeared from their place. My friends' letters
and mine will, however, sooner or later, unite the past and the present. If
I had been able to visit Switzerland ! But death has come, and our plans
arc forwarded to next year. I have written and written to India—but no
answer has yet arrived.
Meanwhile, I send you the relation of the fact, avoiding for this time
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 195
everything which ought to be told by others, and which happened after the
awakening or resurrection. I must write, currente calamo, and in my poor
English ; my time is absorbed by too many things. I authorise you to use
my notes as you pleaso, provided you correct them, and that you do not alter
in the slightest way what I affirm.—Most respectfully yours,
L. J. Bertrand.
Dear Dr. James,—For 27 consecutive years, during the two best
months, I climbed with two, three, or four pupils the peaks of the Alps
and Pyrenees ; of course we had, now and then, disagreeable adventures.
Once, a young English officer, Hatton Turner, and I were lost in the snow
near the Vignemale for 40 hours. I read in a paper the full description
of our own death : it seems that we were murdered by Spanish brigands !
Later, my father and my wife became fully convinced that once or another I
would fall into a crevice or a precipice, or be shot in the dark by a bandit.
To calm their perpetual alarm, I resolved to hide from them all my little
accidents, and to write no journal. Now, I deeply regret my taking such a
resolution—too late.
Some 30 years ago, after crossing from the Rhone valley, I sent my
young men to Meyringen, and I went to Interlaken to prove to my wife that
though she had heard of my falling into a deep crevice of a glacier, I was
still fully alive. On my return I missed the coach, and instead of meeting
my young men at the foot of the Yoch Pass at 9 a.m., as agreed, I
reached them at the inn Engstlenalp—foot of the Titlis, 45 minutes from the
Col of the Yoch—only at 1 p.m.
Whilst taking my meal on the grass, surrounded by my companions, I
said to a guide : " Why do you not climb that beautiful Titlis straight up
from this side instead of going round to meet the long, zigzagging Triibsee
Alp way 1 You make such a fuss for an easy climbing of 10,000 feet ! "
" Because this side is generally hard, sometimes dangerous, and this year
impossible."
One of my young men replied, laughingly : "I suppose that you never
tried ; if tourists did not first guide the guide, no guide would guide the
tourist."
Then came another older guide, called, I think, Karl Infanger, who told
me : " Lately I went there hunting, and I assure you that this year, because
of the snow and of an onormous bump of the glacier, it would be perfect
madness to risk it."
" Well, we may try, and I will give you double pay, when even we
should be obliged to come back unsuccessful."
" When do you mean to leave ? "
" As soon as you are ready, because I hope to see from the top the sun
set instead of the sunrise. Take only a rope ; we have pikes and hooks
enough."
" We will then make two follies instead of one, for the snow is melting
and slippery."
He was right in calling my obstinacy " perfect madness," for when we at
last reached the top of the steep and dangerous part we all felt surprised that
we had not fallen from a precipice and smashed our bodies against a rock.
And then my legs complained pitifully that they had walked from six in the
196 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
morning till five in the afternoon, and had made strenuous, tremendous efforts
for the last two hours.
I therefore said to my companions : "I have been many times on the
summit, and know that you no longer want my prudent (!) direction. As I am
very tired, I will remain here, if you promise me to follow my orders. You,
guide, do you promise me, when you climb the peak, to go up by the left and
come down by the right 1 "
" Of course ; we always do so. I promise."
Then I explained to my young men that the peak is like one half of a
sugar-loaf, cut from top to bottom, and that on the left there was a dangerous
cut, which they might not see in coming down. I therefore placed the
strongest of my pupils at the end of the rope, and said : " Do you promise me
to remain there the last ? "
"I promise."
" Very well, go."
I sat down, my legs hanging on a dangerous slope or precipice, my back
leaning on a rock as big as an armchair. I chose that brink because there
was no snow, and because I could face better the magnificent panorama of the
Alpes Bernoises. I at once remembered that in my pocket were two cigars,
and put one between my teeth, lighted a match, and considered myself as the
happiest of men. Suddenly I felt as thunderstruck by apoplexy, and though
the match burned my fingers, I could not throw it down. My head was per
fectly clear and healthy, but my body was as powerless and motionless as a
rock. There was for me no hesitation. "This," I thought, " is the sleep of
the snows! If I move I shall roll down in the abyss; if I do not move I
shall be a dead man in 25 or 30 minutes." A kind of prayer was sent
to God, and then I resolved to study quietly the progress of death. My feet
and hands were first frozen, and little by little death reached my knees and
elbows. The sensation was not painful, and my mind felt quite easy. But
when death had been all over my body my head became unbearably cold, and
it seemed to mo that concave pincers squeezed my heart, so as to extract my
life. I never felt such an acute jmn, but it lasted only a second or a minute,
and my life went out. " Well," thought I, "at last I am what they call a
dead man, and here I am, a ball of air in the air, a captive balloon still
attached to earth by a kind of elastic string and going up and always up. How
strange ! I see better than ever, and I am dead—only a small space in the
space without a body ! . . . Where is my last body t " Looking down, I
was astounded to recognise my own envelope. " Strange ! " said I to myself.
"There is the corpse in which I lived and which I called me, as if tho coat
were the body, as if the body were the soul ! What a horrid thing is that
body !—deadly pale, with a yellowish-blue colour, holding a cigar in its mouth
and a match in its two burned fingers ! Well, I hope that you shall never
smoke again, dirty rag ! Ah ! if only I had a hand and scissors to cut the
thread which ties me still to it ! When my companions return they will look
at that and exclaim, 'The Professor is dead.' Poor young friends! They
do not know that I never was as alive as I am, and the proof is that I see the
guide going up rather by the right, when he promised me to go by the left ;
W. was to be the last, and he is neither the first nor the last, but alone, away
from the rope. Now the guide thinks that I do not see him because he hides
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, ifcc. 197
himself behind the young men whilst drinking at my bottle of Madeira.
Well, go on, poor man, I hope that my body will never drink of it again.
Ah ! there he is stealing a leg of my chicken. Go on, old fellow, eat the
whole of the chicken if you choose, for I hope that my miserable corpse will
never eat or drink again." I felt neither surprise nor vexation ; I simply
stated facts with indifference. " Hallo ! " said I, " there is my wife going to
Lucerne, and she told me that she would not leave before to-morrow, or after
to-morrow. They are five before the hotel of Lungern. Well, wife, I am a
dead man. Good-bye."
I must confess that I did not call dear the one who has always been very
dear to me, and that I felt neither regret nor joy at leaving her. My only
regret was that I could not cut the string. In vain I travelled through so
beautiful worlds that earth became insignificant. I had only two wishes : the
certitude of not returning to earth and the discovery of my next glorious
body, without which I felt powerless. I could not be happy because the 1
thread, though thinner than ever, was not cut, and the wished-for body was
still invisible to my searching looks.
Suddenly a shock stopped my ascension, and I felt that somebody was
pulling and pulling the balloon down. My grief was measureless. The fact
was that whilst my young friends threw snowballs at each other our guide
had discovered and administered to my body the well-known remedy, rubbing
with snow ; but as I was cold and stiff as ice, he dared not roll me for fear of
breaking my hands still near the cigar. I could neither see nor hear any
more, but I could measure my way down, and when I readied my body again
I had a last hope—the balloon seemed much too big for the mouth. Suddenly
I uttered the awful roar of a wild beast—the corpse swallowed the balloon,
and Bertrand was Bertrand again, though for a time worse than before.
Here is for me an obscurity. I remember only that all seemed to me
confusion and chaos, and I felt disdain for the guide who, expecting a good
reward, tried to make me understand that he had done wonders, and for my
pupils, who repeatedly approved his tiresome sayings. What I know, too, is
that for a time they unmercifully shook and dragged my sore body as if I had
been a drunkard. I never felt a more violent irritation. At last I could say
to my poor guide, " Because you are a fool you take me for a fool, whilst my
body alone is sick. Ah ! if you had simply cut the string."
" The string ? What string ? You were nearly dead."
"Dead ! I was less dead than you are now, and the proof is that I saw you
going up the Titlis by the right, whilst you promised me to go by the left."
The man staggered before replying, " Because the snow was soft and that
there was no danger of slipping."
" You say that because you thought me far away. You went up by the
right and allowed two young men to put aside the rope. Who is a fool ? You
— not I. Now show me my bottle of Madeira, and we will see if it is full."
The blow was such that his hands left my body and he fell down, saying,
evidently to himself, "Did he follow us? No, we should have seen him.
Could he see through the mountain ? Is his body dead, and does his ghost
reproach me for what I did ? "
" Oh," said I, brutally, "you may fall down and stare at me as much as
198 Mr. F, W. H. Myers.
you please, and give your poor explanations, but you cannot prove that my
chicken has two legs, because you stole one."
This was too much for the good man. He got up, emptied his knapsack
whilst muttering a kind of confession, and then flew away. I never saw him
after, but I heard that at an inn he was as delirious as myself, and spoke
somewhat like this :—
"You believe that captain is a man. [Some guides in the Oberland and
at Zermatt called me sometimes captain because I often had with me young
cadets.] But now I know him. This year I never would have gone straight
up this side of the Titlis. Sure of unsuccess, I went, and we succeeded
without any serious trouble. This was already astonishing. At i ha
pretended to be tired and stopped there. When we returned he apparently
was as dead as death itself from apoplexy, or the sleep of the snows, and
a cigar in his mouth. However, I rubbed and rubbed him, and to my amaze-
• ment he came to life again to reproach me for all I had done. He had been
in two places, seen his companions leaving the rope, seen me taking a leg of
our chicken and some of our wine. Captain is not a man ; my bebef is that
I never saw the devil before yesterday and that I saw him all this half day."
"Did he pay you what he promised 1 "
" Surely not. I would not receive a centime from the devil." [This is
true ; I have not yet paid.]
We, of course, arrived late at night at Triibsee Alp, and in the morning my
legs and arms were so stiff that to walk the five miles between Trcibsee and
Engelberg, I took nearly the whole day. How often did I regret that the
guide had not cut the string ' My young men tried over and over again to
calm my irritation by assuring me that the violation of their promises was
justifiable because of the softness of the snow. I simply asked them not to
say a word to my wife, who for them was to be next day—and for me was
already—in Lucerne.
When I arrived there, I asked her why she had left Interlaken sooner
than she had told me.
" Because I was afraid of another accident, and wanted to be nearer."
"Were you five in the carriage, and did you stop at the Lungern
Hotel?"
' ' Yes ; who told you all that ? Have you a spy for me ? "
" Surely not." And I went away laughing, to write a letter to Karl, who
did not answer.
Three days after, being at Pitzker boarding-house, I gave my young
friends, as a token of my gratitude (:), a Uttle banquet at the Englisher Hof,
to which, of course, were invited my wife and her friend, Miss Hope, of
Manchester. There a young man advised secretly Miss H. to ask my wife
how I knew of their disobedience ? My wife looked so surprised and
displeased that I avoided the answer by a furious attack on chatterboxes,
and the subject was dropped.
Another fact tormented me. I had plainly seen, from on high, places
where I had never been, and, of course, I much wanted to visit them, and
verify whether my vision was exact. One was the route from Meyringen to*
i I cannot remember the name of the spot, which is at the extreme right of tha
Eotheck.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 199
Wasen by the Justen. I found Inter that I had a perfect topography of
it, and I must confess that if I kept all those facts secretly in my heart, they
had a real, decisive influence on my life. If I have been brought to religion,
it is not through a pastor or even my Bible, but by a good many like or
different facts which I might relate, but which I cannot explain.
In 1883 I was with my colleague, Reveilland, and Pastors Elgin and
Krieger on the summit of Santa Cruz, Algeria, when our conversation led us
to "the separation of the soul from the body." I deplored to see medical
doctors making a confusion between the soul and the life of a man, and
because I thought myself far enough from my wife, I related publicly for the
first time my story of the Titlis. To my horror, my friend Elgin asked
me an abbreviation of it, which he corrected or not, but published in one of
his books !
When in Boston, as fantastic argument against materialism, I quoted it
again before Doctors Twombly, Griffis, Calkins, Thomas, McKenzie, &c. I
always thought that I alone could understand its meaning, and I used it as
to say, "Do you know what is behind the curtain? I am afraid of occult
sciences, but . . ."
Then came Dr. James, saying: "Hallo! This concerns a scientific
question. Write for me your adventure, as you remember it, and, if
possible, find witnesses." Scientific question ! Witnesses !
Of course, now I regret not to have kept a journal, for 20 years have
elapsed. When I wrote about my guide the answer was : " Your Karl
fell from the Titlis over the precipice." When I wrote—from Boston—to
my dearest friend, Professor Jules Dubourg, to whom I had said and written
everything, his son Rov. J. A. Dubourg replied : " My father died lately,
and we have not found your paper." When I wrote to one of my pupils,
his friends answered : " His name is not on the list because he was killed in
the colonies." Another " left the place years ago, but I hope to find his new
address." A fifth "is probably in India, but I have not yet an answer." I
begged of a friend to say to some Swiss guides and chaletiers : "If you can
find what Karl Infanger said of a tourist called Captain, his real name being
Bertrand, who often climbed the Titlis, you may expect a reward." I
received two letters only. One is a ridiculous account of my resurrection by
magic at Engelberg or Triibsce Alp. The other remembers only having
heard that a ghost or devil had a duel with a French officer on the Titlis,
but could not throw him down as he did throw Karl Infanger—mere trash of
people who heard evidently of my accident, laughed at Karl's sayings, and
who have now forgotten everything, but would like the reward. My wife
remembers well the dinner at the Englisher Hof and why I gave it, but as
she knew little, she answers vaguely about the details, even about Lungern
and her travelling companions, whom she thinks were Russians and English.
Miss Hope writes that the fact made upon her a deep impression, but as she
was quite a young lady, the deepest impression was that my young men took
a long, long time to come from the Titlis to Lucerne.
My children heard—never from me—for twenty years, and from different
sides of my adventure, but cannot now give me names.
There I am, but I still persist in thinking that I will find some missing
links allowing me to complete my story. All the friends I have questioned
200 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
remember facts, grosso modo, only because I refused to speak ; some disagree
with me on names and dates, and they puzzled my poor memory for the
present. L. J. B.
It is pretty certain, I repeat, that this narrative, written so long
after the event, must contain errors of detail. But if we accept the
writer's good faith—which there is no reason to doubt—it is probable
that there must have been an amount of knowledge supernonnally
acquired before actual death which, if reproduced in some post
mortem communication, would have seemed to prove a continued power
of terrene observation,—although in fact that power, for aught we can
tell, might have abruptly ceased so soon as the " thread " was finally
severed.
Here, then, is one possible source of mistaken ascription of post
mortem knowledge to the dead. Nor is the decedent's own clair
voyance ire extremis the only clairvoyance which may bo thus mis
interpreted. There may be telepathic clairvoyance on the percipient's
part. Various cases quoted or referred to by Mrs. Sidgwick (Pro
ceedings, Vols. VI. and VII.), or published in Phantasms of the Living
(see Clairvoyance in Index), indicate that the shock of the message
from the dying friend may in soma way enable the percipient to
discern, not only his personality, but his actual surroundings at the
moment.1
Let us pass a little beyond the dying scene, and come to cases
where the decedent shows a knowledge of his own appearance or
dress in the coffin. A striking ease of this kind was given in
Vol. VI., p. 17, and Dr. Hodgson has since interviewed the informant,
with the result of an increased confidence in his accuracy.2 Dr.
Hodgson has since sent us two cases where a similar knowledge on the
decedent's part appears to be shown.
G. 208.
The Herald, Dubuque, Iowa,
February 11th, 1891.
A most remarkable incident has just come to light, and while it cannot be
s;,id that the truth of Spiritualism is thereby demonstrated, it furnishes a
deeply interesting topic for those who make a study of the human mind and
would vainly attempt to explain some of the strange impressions made upon it.
It will be remembered that on February 2nd, Michael Conley, a farmer
living near Ionia, Chickasaw County, was found dead in an outhouse at the
Jefferson house. He was carried to Coroner Hoffmann's morgue, where, after
the inquest, his body was prepared for shipment to his late home. The old
i See in this connection Mrs. Farnane's dream (S. P. R. Journal, July, 1891, p. 105),
where a mother sees her son lying dead, under circumstances fairly corresponding
with those which had accompanied his death, unknown to her, a few days previously.
2 See also Proceedings, Vol. III., 95, sqq. ;
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, iL-c. 201
clothes which he wore were covered with filth from the place where he was
found and they were thrown outside the morgue on the ground.
His son came from Ionia and took the corpse home. When he reached
there and one of the daughters was told that her father was dead, she feE
into a swoon, in which she remained for several hours. When at last she was
brought from the swoon, she said, " Where are father's old clothes 1 He has
just appeared to mo dressed in a white shirt, black clothes, and felt [mis-
reported for satin] slippers, and told me that after leaving home he sewed a
large roll of bills inside his grey shirt with a piece of my red dress and the
money is still there." In a short time she fell into another swoon and when
out of it demanded that somebody go to Dubuque and get the clothes. She
was deathly sick, and is so yet.
The entire family considered it ouly a hallucination, but the physician
advised them to get the clothes, as it might set her mind at rest. The son
telephoned Coroner Hoffmann asking if the clothes were still in his possession.
He looked and found them in the backyard, although he had supposed they
were thrown in the vault as he had intended. He answered that he still had
them, and on being told that the son would come to get them, they were
wrapped in a bundle.
The young man arrived last Monday afternoon and told Coroner Hoffmann
what his sister had said. Mr. Hoffmann admitted that the lady had described
the identical burial garb in which her father was clad, even to the slippers,
although she never saw him after death, and none of the family had seen
more than his face through the coffin lid. Curiosity being fully aroused, they
took the grey shirt from the bundle and within the bosom found a large roll
of bills sewed with a piece of red cloth. The young man said his sister had
a red dress exactly like it. The stitches were large and irregular, and looked
to be those of a man. The son wrapped up the garments and took them
home with him yesterday morning, filled with wonder at the supernatural
revelation made to his sister, who is at present lingering between life and death.
The Herald, Ham and Carver, Proprietors, Dubuque,
Iowa, March 2ml, 1891.
Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—Replying to inquiry of February 25th, would say that the
facts in case you mention are as stated in an article published in the Herald
of February 11th, a copy of which is enclosed. The facts were given our
reporter, Mr. H. L. Sill, who wrote the article, by Mr. Mat Hoffmann,
coroner for Dubuque County. We do not know the name of the young lady's
physician, but you could probably learn it by addressing J. A. Wood, Ionia,
Iowa.—Yours truly,
Ham and Carver.
The Herald, Established 1830, Ham and Carver, Proprietors,
Dubuque, Iowa, March 11th, 1891.
R. Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—I am in receipt of your favour of the 6th inst., and in answer
will state as follows :—
Michael Conley came to Dubuque from Ionia, Chickasaw County, Iowa,
P
202 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
on some sort of business. He was found dead in the outhouse at the
Jefferson House, on Monday, February 2nd. Coroner Hoffmann, who is an
undertaker, took charge of the remains. The clothes were covered with filth
and thrown outside the morgue. Word was sent the family, and in a day or
two the son of deceased came and took the remains home. The following
Monday, February 9th, the son returned, as stated in my article of February
11th. I happened in the coroner's office while the son was still there, with
the clothes wrapped in a bundle to take home with him. It was a few minutes
after the money was found. The story as published is as told me by the son
and the coroner, and, strange as it may seem, the published account is not
exaggerated in the least.
The coroner's address is, "M. M. Hoffmann, Coroner, Fifteenth and Clay
streets, Dubuque, Iowa."
I cannot tell you the name of Miss Conley's physician. Ionia is in
Chickasaw County, Iowa, and over 100 miles from Dubuque. You could
ascertain by writing the postmaster there.
I will gladly do all in my power to aid your investigation.
H. L. Stll.
M. M. Hoffmann,Undertaker and Embalmcr, Dubuque, Iowa, March 18th,
1891, writes to Dr. Hodgson as follows :—-
In regard to the statement in the Dubuque Herald, about February 19th,
about the Conley matter is more than true by my investigation. I laughed,
and did not believe in the matter when I first heard of it, until I satisfied
myself by investigating and seeing what I did.
M. M. Hoffmann, County Coroner.
Ionia, July 20th, 1891.
Rev. J. M. Ferris, Earlville, la.
Dear Sir,--Will fulfil my promise as near as possible.
Elizabeth Conley, the subject of so much comment in the various papers,
was born in Chickasaw township, Chickasaw County, Iowa, in March, 1863.
Her mother died the same year. Is of Irish parentage ; brought up. and is,
a Roman Catholic ; has been keeping house for her father for ten years.
On the 1st day of February, 1891, her father went to Dubuque, Iowa,
for medical treatment, and died on the 3rd of the same month very sud
denly. His son was notified by telegraph the same day, and he and I
started the next morning after the remains, which we found in charge of
Coroner Hoffmann.
He had 9 dollars 75 cents, which he had taken from his pocket-book. I
think it was about two days after our return she had the dream, or vision.
She claimed her father had appeared to her, and told her there was a sum of
money in an inside pocket of his under-shirt. Her brother started for
Dubuque a few days afterwards, and found the clothes as we had left them,
and in the pocket referred to found 30 dollars in currency. These are the
facts of the matter as near as I can give them.
Georoe Brows.
Mr. George Brown is an intelligent and reliable farmer, residing about
one mile from the Conleys.
A. Crum.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 203
Ionia, la., JuhjIUh, 1891.
Rev. J. M. Ferris, Earlville, la.
Dear Brother, —You asked me to write you out a statement of facts
regarding the Conley girl, who has caused so much newspaper comment con
cerning an alleged vision of hers. She is of Irish parentage ; socially,
rather above the avorage as to respectability ; of the Roman Catholic faith,
yet commonly regarded as quite free from a superstitious tendency ; and
intellectually, rather above the average, though possessed of a limited
education. The community is divided as to the merits of the case. Many
of the most intelligent citizens, and those most intimately acquainted with
all the circumstances, are pronounced in their unbelief in anything " super
natural " connected with the dream Miss Conley had. No one doubts her
«incerity. At times she is regarded as partially deranged in mind since her
father's death.
Personally, I am inclined to join with the sceptical as to any supernatural
vision appearing to Miss Conley ; but am free to admit that I am unable to
account for some features of the case, admitting as I must the veracity and
sincerity of the young lady and her brother.
If I have omitted any point concerning which you would like to inquire,
let me know, and I will try to answer to the best of my ability.
L. A. Green, Past. M. E. Ch., Ionia, la.
Dubuque, Iowa, June 23rd, 1891.
Dear Mr. Hodgson,—
1 have not been able to visit Ionia, Chickasaw County, la., to investigate
the case of the daughter of Michael Conley ; but from Mr. Hoffmann's
assistant who did all the work on Mr. Conley's body, finding the clothes,
recovering the money, &c, &c, I learn that the case has been correctly
stated in the enclosed clipping. I can learn nothing of Miss Conley, but
should I be ablo to go to her neighbourhood I shall make all inquiries and
faithfully report the findings. —Very truly, &c,
Amos Crum, Past. Univ. Ch.
Dubuque, Iowa, August 15th, 1891.
Dear Mr. Hodgson,—I send you in another cover a detailed account of
interview with the Conleys.
I could not get the doctor.
I have had a long talk with Mr. Hoffmann about the Conley inc dent, and
think you have all the facts—and they are/«cto.
The girl Lizzie Conley swooned. She saw her dead father ; she heard from
him of the money left in his old shirt ; she returned to bodily consciousness ;
she described her father's burial dress, robe, shirt, and slippers, exactly,
though she had never seen them. She described the pocket in the shirt that
had been left for days in the shed at the undertaker's. It was a ragged-
edged piece of red cloth clumsily sewn, and in this pocket was found a roll of
bills—35 dollars in amount—as ttken out by Mr. Hoffmann in presence of
Pat Conley, son of the deceased, and brother of the Lizzie Conley whose
remarkable dream or vision is the subject of inquiry.
Amos Crum, Past. Univ. Ch.
p 2
204 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Richard Hodgson. •
My Dear Sir, —Complying with your request under date of July 7th,
1891, I have made inquiries of the Conley family residing in Ionia, Chickasaw
County, la., and herewith transcribe my questions addressed to Miss Elizabeth
Conley and her replies to the same concerning her alleged dream or vision in
which she saw and received information from her father, then lately
deceased.
On July 17th, about noon, I Killed at the Conley home near Ionia,
Chickasaw County, Iowa, and inquired for Elizabeth Conley. She was present
and engaged in her domestic labours. When I stated the object of my call,
she seemed quite reluctant for a moment to engage in conversation. Then
she directed a lad who was present to leave the room. She said she would
converse with me upon the matter pertaining to her father.
Q. : What is your age ? A. : Twenty-eight.
Q. : What is the state of your health ? A. : Not good since my father's
death.
Q. : What was the state of your health previous to his death 1 A. : It
was good. I was a healthy girl.
Q. : Did you have dreams, visions, or swoons previous to your father's
death ? A. : Why, I had dreams. Everybody has dreams.
Q. : Have you ever made discoveries or received other information during
your dreams or visions previous to your father's death ? A. : No.
Q. : Had there been anything unusual in your dreams or visions previous
to your father's death ? A. : No, not that I know of.
Q. : Was your father in the habit of carrying considerable sums of money
about his person ? A. : Not that I knew of.
Q. : Did you know before his death of the pocket in the breast of the
shirt worn by him to Dubuque ? A. : No.
Q. : Did you wash or prepare that shirt for him to wear on his trip to
Dubuque ? A. : No. It was a heavy woollen undershirt, and the pocket was
stitched inside of the breast of it.
Q. : Will you recite the circumstances connected with the recovery of
money from clothing worn by your father at the time of his death? A.
(after some hesitation) : When they told me that father was dead I felt very
sick and bad ; I did not know anything. Then father came to me. He had
on a white shirt and black clothes and slippers. When I came to, I told Pat
fher brother] I had seen father. I asked him (Pat) if he had brought back
father's old clothes. He said "No," and asked me why I wanted them. I
told him father said to me he had sewed a roll of bills inside of his grey
shirt, in a pocket made of a piece of my old red dress. I went to sleep,
and father came to me again. When I awoke, I told Pat he must go and get
the clothes.
Q. : While in these swoons did you hear the ordinary conversations or
noises in the house about you ? A. : No.
Q. : Did you see your father's body after it was placed in its coffin ?
A. : No ; I did not see him after he left the house to go to Dubuque.
Q. : Have you an education ? A. : No.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 205
Q. : Can you read and write 1 A. : Oh yes, I can read and write ; but
I've not been to school much.
Q. : Are you willing to write out what you have told me of this strange
affair ? A. : Why I've told you all I know about it.
She was averse to writing or to signing a written statement. During the
conversation she was quite emotional, and manifested much effort to suppress
her feelings. She is of little more than medium size, of Irish parentage, of
Catholic faith, and shows by her conversation that her education is limited.
Her brother, Pat Conley, corroborates all that she has recited. He is a
sincere and substantial man, and has no theory upon which to account for
the strange facts that have come to his knowledge. In his presence, Coroner
Hoffmann, in Dubuque, found the shirt with its pocket of red cloth stitched
on the inside with long, straggling, and awkward stitches, just as a dim-
sighted old man or an awkward boy might sew it there. The pocket was
about 7 [seven] inches deep, and in the pocket of that dirty old shirt that
had lain in Hoffmann's back room was a roll of bills amounting to 35 dollars.
When the shirt was found with the pocket, as described by his sister after
her swoon—and the money as told her by the old man after his death, Pat
Conley seemed dazed and overcome by the mystery. Hoffmann says the girl,
after her swoon, described exactly the burial suit, shirt, coat or robe, and
satin slippers, in which the body was prepared for burial. She even described
minutely the slippers, which were of a new pattern that had not been in the
market here, and which the girl could never have seen a sample of ; and she
had not seen, and never saw, the body of her father after it was placed in the
coffin, and if she had seen it she could not have seen his feet " in the nice
black satin slippers " which she described.
You may write this Conley incident down as a simple, honest thing. It
is unquestionably genuine.
I send you two letters from citizens of Ionia, who are certified to me by
the Rev. J. M. Ferris, concerning the Conleys. Mr. Ferris allows me to
send the letters as received. They were obtained at my request from old
friends of the Rev. Mr. Ferris. I have done all I could to get the bottom
facts.- -Cordially yours,
Amos Crum, Pastor Univ. Church.
Dubuque, la.
If we may accept the details of this narrative, which seems to have
bsen carefully and promptly investigated, we find that the phantasm
communicates two sets of facts ; one of them known only to strangers
(the dress in which he was buried), and one of them known only to
himself (the existence of the inside pocket and the money therein).
In discussing from what mind these images originate it is of course
important to note whether any living minds, known or unknown to
the percipient, were aware of the facts thus conveyed.
The second instance occurs at the beginning of a series of experiences,
which, for convenience' sake, may here be given entire. The coinci
dences involved are not all of them equally striking ; but their frequent
repetition with the same percipient is a fact of interest.
20G Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Dr. Hodgson has interviewed Mr. Quint, and considers him a trustworthy
witness. He has never asked money for the exercise of his powers.
G. 209.
February 28/7i, 1891.
My wife's brother died a year ago last fall. I could not go to the funeral
myself owing to pressure of business, but all of my family went.
About two months later I was sitting alone with my wife at supper when
I felt an extraordinary heat down the spinal cord, preceded by a shock
resembling an electric shock. It made me start. . My wife asked the reason.
I told her that I saw Frank (i.e., her brother) with his mother (who had died
about eight years previously) standing behind mo. I explained that he was
dressed as I had never seen him—the shirt being very deep and wide open.
My wife then told me that he had been laid out in precisely that way. I had
not heard any details of his laying out.
(Signed) Wilson Quint.
The above is correct.
(Confirmation of wife) J. W. Quint.
A year ago I went to Maiden to pay a business visit in the evening to a
gentleman there, Mr. M. I had been on two previous occasions to the house
and stayed but a moment or two, as my visits were of a very brief business
nature. On the first visit I had seen Mr. M. and his wife, and I have a faint
recollection of seeing some children at the house.
On the second visit I saw Mr. M. for a moment at the door.
On this last occasion, as I entered the house I felt my head enveloped in
a cloud, as it were, though I did not see anything. I sat down with Mr. M.
His wife came into the room, and, as she shook hands, she said, "We have
met with a great trial. Yesterday we buried our little girl. She was run
over and killed almost immediately. She breathed but once after entering
the house." Almost as soon as she had finished speaking, I saw the figure of
a little girl standing at the right hand of Mr. M. I did not mention this at
once, but first said a few words of comfort, and then stated that with their
permission I would tell them what I saw. They desired me to tell them, and
I described the figure. "She was dressed in light clothing, not what you
would call calico, I think, but probably you would call it muslin. She is
round-favoured, blue eyes, light hair. A peculiarity of her dress is what we
used to call a tire tied loosely round the neck and loosely round the waist at
the back."
I then rose to go. Mrs. M. sprang from her seat and caught me by the
hand, saying, " Mr. Quint, the description of our little one is perfect." Mr.
M. also said that the description was perfect.
(Signed) Wilson Quint.
[Mre. M. writes that they wish to be excused from giving their testi
mony.—R.H.]
In a savings bank where I am employed, a lady, of apparently about fifty
years of age, was waiting to be attended to, and she spoke to me with regard
to business matters, saying that she found it difficult to manage her husband's
affairs. I said, Did your head come to about your husband's shoulder ?
Yes.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, d-c. 207
Did your husband wear a long frock coat buttoned up ? Yes.
Did he wear a silk hat ? Yes. But why do you ask these questions ?
I explained to her that I saw a figure standing a few paces behind her as
I described it.
I do not know who the lady was, and have never seen her before or since.
(Signed) Wilson Quint.
About a year ago, when treating a rheumttic patient by massage treat
ment and passes, I saw the figure of a young man standing at her right
hand holding a hat in his hand. I mentioned the circumstance to her and
she said that a son of hers had died about a year before, and that it might
possibly be he. Nothing further special was said at that time, but the scene
recurred to me in reflection, and I wondered why the figure should be hold
ing a hat, so peculiar as it seemed to be. On my next visit two weeks later, I
questioned the lady about the hat and described it in detail. It was a form
of Derby, but the top was square like a silk hat. She was much surprised,
and told me that that was the identical shape of hat that her son had always
persisted in wearing.
[The above is perfectly correct in every respect. To me it is wonderful. I
am the mother of the young man.
(Signed) Mrs. Maria E. Fisher.]
I have had experiences of this kind occasionally for about three years,
perhaps eighteen or twenty of them. The forms are just as vivid and real in
every way, so far as vision goes, as living men and women. They disappear
by gradually fading away—vanishing like a cloud. I have never touched any
of the forms.
About two and a half years ago, I called upon a friend one Sunday morn
ing, and while conversing with him, just after he had made some reference to
his daughter, I saw three figures in the corner of the room in the direction of
his right I described them to him as follows : —
" I see a young lady about eighteen years of age, an elderly lady with her
with a cap on, and another lady a little in the rear of them and between them,
apparently about thirty-five years of age." He recognised them as his wife,
his mother, and his daughter, and informed me that his daughter had died at
the age of eighteen, and his wife at the age of thirty-five.
I had never seen these persons living, so far as I know, but I believe I
had heard that these two members of his family had died.
Wilson Quint.
Everett, April 13</i, 1891.
I remember perfectly well the circumstances as related above.
G. H. Burr.
March 21s/, 1891.
About six or seven mouths ago I was talking with a friend of mine, Mr.
Dill, when 1 saw the figure of a man somewhat past middle age half reclining
behind him, as though leaning to the right on one side of a chair, though I
did not see any chair. I described the figure to Mr. Dill at his request as
follows : " Light complexion, blue eyes, round-favoured, with broad fore
208 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
head and not a superfluous quantity of hair on the front of his head. The
peculiarity of his dress was a buff waistcoat, with noticeable watchchain and
fob hanging down by the buttons."
Mr. Dill recognised upon the instant a man whom he had known, an old
friend, down at Cape Cod, who had been gone a number of years. I knew
nothing whatever about any such person.
Wilson Quint.
Everett, April 2nd, 1891.
The above statement is true as far as I am able to recognise one from a
description of his person. The person described was Captain J. J. Jacobs, of
Wenfleet, Mass. N. S. C. Dill.
I may here mention a dream-case recorded in Phantasms of tin
Living, Vol. I., p. 365, with regard to which we have since learnt an
interesting detail. The case is briefly as follows : About March, 185",
Mrs. Menneer in England dreamt that she saw her brother, whose
whereabouts she did not know, standing headless at the foot of the
bed, with his head lying on a coffin by his side. The dream was at
once mentioned. It afterwards appeared that at about that time the
head of the brother seen, Mr. Wellington, was actually cut off by
Chinese at Sarawak. On this case Mr. Gurney remarks : " This dream,
if it is to be telepathically explained, must apparently have been due
to the last flash of thought in the brother's consciousness. It may
seem strange that a definite picture of his mode of death should present
itself to a man in the instant of receiving an unexpected and fatal
blow ; but, as Hobbes said, 'Thought is quick.' The coffin, at any rate,
may be taken as an item of death-imagery supplied by the dreamer's
mind."
We have now, howeier, seen a letter from Sir James Brooke
(Rajah of Sarawak) and an extract from the Straits Times of March
21st, 1857, in the (London) Times for April 29th, 1857, which make it,
I think, quite conceivable that the dream was a reflection of know
ledge acquired by Mr. Wellington after death, and that the head on
the coffin had a distinct meaning. Sir James Brooke says: " Poor
Wellington's remains were consumed [by the Chinese] ; his head, borne
off in triumph, alone attesting his previous murder." The Straits
Times says: "The head was given up on the following day." The
head, therefore, and the head alone, must undoubtedly have been
buried by Mr. Wellington's friends ; and its appearance in the dream
on a coffin, with the headless body standing beside it, is a coincidence
even more significant than the facts which Mr. Gurney had before him
when he wrote.
Somewhat similar is a case of waking apparition sent by Dr. and
Mrs. Entwistle to Dr. Hcxlgson, where the phantom of a man who
dies of a sudden wound,—certainly of a more ordinary type than Mr.
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, iL-c. 209
Wellington's decapitation !—is seen with the wound, while the body is
lying in the morgue.
G. 223.
Englewood, May 19th, 1891.
Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—Your invitation, as indicated by yours of May 14th, at
hand, and reminds me of a recent experience of my husband. It occurred
the latter part of February, 1891. I will call my husband Doctor, as he is
a physician. The others I will give true initials ; but as they might object,
will not give full names. One morning, about nine o'clock, the latter part
of February, the Doctor was walking rapidly along Sixty-third-street for the
station to catch a train bound for the city, Chicago, some seven miles
distant. He crossed over from the south side to the north side of the
street, and looking up ahead of him saw Mr. M. coming- -a man who was
a drinking profligate, and who boarded in the city, and a carouser who
turned night into day, but one whom the doctor had known for twenty
years, and had seen, perhaps, every few weeks, as he might meet him in the
Grand Pacific Hotel in the city. So his first thought in seeing him was,
" You must have had an early start." He noted in his mind his clothes, his
overcoat, his hat, and that he looked begrimed and cold. He kept looking
at him, and Mr. M. looked directly at the Doctor with such a woe-begone,
God-forsaken expression. The Doctor noticed he was bruised, and had a
certain shaped cut under one eye, and he thought, "Well, you must have
been on a regular tear." Not caring to be stopped, he passed him without
speaking ; and Mr. M. turned his head, and kept watching him with that
same forlorn expression, that the Doctor felt in his heart he ought to have
spoken, and hesitated, thinking to go after him, but did not, as he (Mr. M.)
crossed the street, and went down Yale, and was lost to view, though he
looked around at the Doctor. When the Doctor got on the train he met
Mr. L., a brother-in-law of mine, and he told him that he just met Charley
M., and he should judge he had been on a terrible tear, and went on telling
him as I have told, mentioning this cut, and telling under which eye it was,
&c. Mr. L. asked where he (Mr. M.) went, and the Doctor said, "Why, he
went down Yale, and I suppose he was going down to see his wife." "Oh,
no," said Mr. L., "his wife won't allow him round." (His wife had
obtained a divorce some years before.) So the two arrived in the city, and
went to the Grand Pacific, and met Mr. A. B., who had a Tribune in his
hand, and he said, "Charley M., I guess, is dead, for here is a notice in the
paper that seems it must be him lying in the morgue for identification,
although the name is not quite right." Before he finished the Doctor spoke
. up and said, "It is not he, for I just met him in Englewood." "Yes,"
said Mr. L., "he told me about it." Mr. A. B. said, " Why, my brother,
Mr. W. B. (who was a brother-in-law to the dead man), has gone to the
morgue to see if it is Mr. M. ; but, of course, if you met him, why it
can't be." So the Doctor took the Tribune and read the notice, and said,
"This says Mr. N., and says so-and-so ; and shows on the face of it they
did not know as he was dressed so-and-so, and had a cut under such an eye.
Then, anyway, I saw him within the hour alive." After a while Mr. W. B.
came in, and said it was Mr. M. sure enough ; that he was going out to
210 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Englewood to inform Mrs. M., which he did, and the body was cared for
and buried. As matters turned out it seems that he had some drunken brawl
in some low dive, and the conclusion was he was thrown out, was found by
the police unconscious, was taken to the county hospital, where he died
within a few hours, still unconscious, was taken to the morgue to await,
identification, and the notice put in the one paper, probably by some night
reporter. It also came out that the Doctor's description was exactly so, and
that the time he met the man his body was lying in the morgue. Now, these
are the main facts. If there are any questions that the Doctor can answer,
he is willing to do so. M. L. Entwistle.
J. G. W. Entwistle, M.D.
Investigating a Death.
C. H. N., a veteran pensioner, became involved in a quarrel at the
Western House on Clark-street, near Van Buren, and was ejected. He was
found by the police on the sidewalk, taken first to the station and later to
the county hospital, where he died last evening. The case is being investi
gated.—The Chicago Tribune, February 10th, 1891.
M.—Monday, February 9th, at the Cook County Hospital, C. H. M.,
aged 47 years, late member of the Chicago Board of Trade Battery. Notice
of funeral later.—The Chicago Tribune, February 11th, 1891.
Dr. Entwistle's companion adds the following corroboration :—
"I think some details in the latter part of the above narrative have not
been told nearly strongly enough.
', After Dr. Entwistle and myself reached the city, we went immediately
to the hotel, and meeting Mr. A. B., sat down and entered into conversation
with him on general subjects. Some gentleman, unknown to either of us,
stepped up and pointing out a notice in the morning paper, asked A. B. if
he thought it referred to C. M., as the name in print was misspelled. A. B.
immediately expressed himself that it was C. M. , and then Dr. E., reading
the notice, said it could not be, as he had met M. at Englewood that morn
ing. I stated that it was a fact, as the Doctor had told me, and we had
talked of the circumstance on the way to the city. This seemed to convince
A. B. that it was not M., as he knew Dr. Entwistle was well acquainted
with M., and would not be liable to be misled. At this time W. B., a
brother-in-law of M.'s, joined us, and the matter of the notice brought to his
attention, he suggested that he and the stranger (who we afterwards
learned was an army companion of M.'s) should visit the morgue. This they
did. although A. B. protested that it was no use, from the fact that M. had
been seen that morning at Englewood. Upon returning from the morgue,
W. B. told us it was M., and went on to describe his marks and clothing,
which tallied in every particular with the description given me by the
Doctor in the morning.
"C. L.«
" March 22nrf, 1892."
} In another case, which we owe to the kindness oF Lord Bute, the face of the
deceased was seen with wraps which apparently corresponded to some r.ither
unusual swathings after death. Mrs. Pilkington, of Valloy Lodgp, Scarborough,
tells us that some years ago an aunt of hers died in London. "About 3 months
On Indication* of Continued Terrene Knowledge, d-c. 211
I have already (Vol. VI., p. 31) mentioned the "curious type of
cases where some manifestation occurs just before the news of the
death is received by the percipient." Some more narratives of this
kind have reached us ; —thus illustrating what we often find to be the
case, that these phenomena do really fall into natural groups,—although
those groups are often such as we had no previous reason for anticipating.
It is evidentially important to observe that these apparitions occur
before and not after the news has been actually communicated. The
moment after the communication may be taken as that of maximum
shock, and if the recipient of the news were then to see a phantom of
his friend, one might well suppose that this was the mere embodiment
of his own agitated grief. But I do not remember any instance (except
Conley's, just quoted) where the apparitionfollowed on the receipt of
the news. And in Conley's case the phantom showed its reality, as
we have seen, in other ways. Apart from that case (so far as 1 know)
the apparition has always preceded the arrival of the letter or messenger
announcing the death.
What mind, then, is it which knows that the letter is coming ? We
have elsewhere remarked that this sense of an approaching letter seems
sometimes to occur as a form of clairvoyance, where no mind other than
the percipient's can be supposed to be specially interested in the letter's
arrival. On the other hand, if spirits still in the flesh may jwssess
afterwards she appeared to me in this way. I beheld her in my room near the. door.
I noticed that her head was much enveloped and that her mouth was covered over.
I wrote an account of this to my sister who was with hsr at her death." "My sister
did not keep my letter, but she told me that previous to death my aunt's head had
been much enveloped by shawls, as she complained so much of the cold ; and that
after death blood had issued from the mouth, caused by her complaint, bronchitis,
so that her mouth was covered over after her death.'' But here the habitual mental
picture of a corpse as swathed about the head seems to come too near to the
apparition actually seen to allow us to ascribe evidential force to the coincidence
in the wrappings.
I might add here a reference to Mr. Romilly's account of tho phantasm of
the murdered Kimueli, with bandages such as bad actually been placed on his
head {Proceedimji, Vol. VI., p. 55). But Mr. Allardyce (with whom we were
unable previously to communicate, owing to ignorance of his address) has now
returned to England ; and we learn from him that ho did not himself see the figure
of Kimueli, and that his journal contains no record of Mr. Romilly's having seen
Kimueli ;—although he knows that the natives were on the look-out for the ghost.
N'ow Mr. Komilly does not precisely say that Mr. Allardyce saw the figure ; but
Mr. Allardyce's account leads us to think that Mr. Romilly's experience may have
been a mero subjective hallucination, caused by expectation, and which, even if
shared by superstitious natives, cannot count as evidential.
I may mention that we have succeeded in tracing one of Mr. Owen's
informants in the Children case (Vol. VI., p. 5t). This lady is, as Mr. Owen said, of
good position ; but she dislikes the topic, and partly (as she tells us) from defect of
memory, partly from some private reason, she declines to correspond further on the
matter. We can only regiet t!,at Mr. Owen did not obtain first-hand signed state
ments at the time.
212 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
clairvoyant power we cannot say that difcirnate spirits may not pissess
such power also ; perhaps specially as to matters relating to their own
earth-history,—such as the diffusion of news of their own demise.
For the present we must confine ourselves to noting these cases as they
occur.
But before proceeding to new cases, I may mention that Mr.
Cameron Grant's case (Phantasms of the Living, Vol. II., p. 690, and
Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 31) has been further strengthened, by
permission to print the passages from Mr. Grant's diary, and by inter
views of my own with the widow and daughter of the decedent. Lord
Z., (not the true initial,) who were present at the time of the death.
The following is Mr. Grant's statement, made to me July 28th,
1889:—
" The first form in which this impression came to me was that of deep
sympathy for [a member of Lord Z.'s family]. After this had lasted for
some time I found myself rudely drawing a tall man stooping forwards on to
another man. I had a conviction that Lord Z. was dead,—that the falling
forward indicated death. I also dimly perceived the position of windows
behind the falling figure, though I did not draw these. I wrote to my mother
at once to say that 1 knew that Lord Z. was dead. [Letter not preserved.] I
was then up the country in Brazil, and saw few papers. I heard from
England that Lord Z. was dead ; but (as I told Mr. Gimiey) did not look for
date in papers, and did not, so far us I know, hear the (Lite in any letter.
"On reaching England I was partially hypnotised by a physician of my
acquaintance [name given] ; but did not lose consciousness. During my
semi-trance I became aware that I was seeing the room and windows and the
falling figure, more clearly than ever before. I talked of this scene to the
physician. Afterwards he invited me to look in a crystal. I did so ; and
saw the same room ;—the windows, bed, and figure, more distinctly.
" I afterwards went to stay in the house where Lord Z. died. As soon as
I entered I asked Lady Z. to allow me to describe to her the room where I
had seemed to see Lord Z. dying. Lady Z. was at first incredulous ; but on
my describing the position of bed and windows she admitted that it was
correct. Lord Z. had died in a dressing-room adjacent to his bedroom. The
temporary bed and windows were exactly as I had seen them. He had
fallen forwards into the arms of a male attendant, dying suddenly.''
The first impression of the death,—which was nearly coinriitcnt,—was on
December 24th, 1885 (date verified by Mr. Gurney). Entry in diary
December 25th, 1885 : There was something upon my mind all day from
yesterday,—a sense of a death or loss of someone dear to me. I spoke to
E.C. [Mr. Catlin, the manager, who wrote in corroboration] about it ; and I
don't know how it is, but as 1 wrote the above [a member of Lord Z.'s
family] has been constantly in my thoughts.
Then on Tuesday, January 2<ith, 1886, is an entry,—read by me in Mr.
Grant's journal, and copied for me by him,—as follows : -
"Impression at about 1 o'clock and drawing and reasoning therefrom
on death."
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 213
January 27th. " Very tired, but did not sleep a wink all night. I am
sure that something has happened to [a member of Lord Z.'s family]. I
heard every hour strike, and kept thinking of [all the members of the
family] but nut of the dear old gentleman [i.e., imagining them in sorrow,
but not Lord Z. himself]. I got up and wanted to draw him. His features
seemed before me. I had before shown Mr. Catlin a face in the Graphic that
was like him, also that of a dead man. I had the greatest difficulty not to
draw his portrait with his head forward and sunk on his breast, as if he had
been sitting in a room with a window on his right hand and an old man
servant ;—and then his head just went forward, and he fell asleep. Weeks
ago [i.e., December 25th] I thought of him,-—sometime about Christmas;
and ever since I have been feeling [pity, &c., for members of family].
On the next day, Thursday, January 28th, 1886, Mr. Grant received by
accident a Scotch paper in which Lord Z.'s death was mentioned,—but
apparently without the precise date.
I have received a letter, (which I have unfortunately mislaid,) from Mr.
Catlin, corroborating Mr. Grant's statements as to his having shown him
drawings and spoken of the death of a friend at home.
Lady Z. and Miss Z. gave me, in April, 1892, the following corrobora
tion :—
Lord Z. died December 24th, 1885, in a dressing-room adjoining his own
larger room. The dressing-room was narrow, with a window at one end, and
a small bed, then occupied by a man-servant who attended on him. Lord Z.
had entered this room to speak to the servant, when he fell forward, the
servant catching him in his arms, and shortly afterwards breathed his last.
His death was unexpected, although he had long been ill. I remember that
Mr. Cameron Grant visited our country seat,—where this occurred,—for the
first time some months after Lord Z. 's death ; and that he said something to
me as to his having known of it, or recognised the scene ; but I cannot now
remember the details. (Signed) [Lady Z. ]
I remember that Mr. Cameron Grant, before going upstairs, when he
arrived on the visit referred to, asked whether my father had not fallen
forwards into the arms of a man, in a long room with a window at one end
of it. (Signed) [Miss Z.]
This case should be studied along with Mr. Cameron Grant's other
records of experiences (Phantasms of the Living, II., pp. <i88-090).
It would in a certain way explain these intimations if we could suppose
that Lord Z., (who was, and who knew Mr. Grant to be, much interested in
such phenomena,) first impressed Mr. Grant at the time of his own death,
and then renewed the impression when he knew—in some inconceivable
manner—that Mr. Grant was about to receive, quite casually, a newspaper
announcement of the decease. On that occasion the decedent seems to have
been able to impress a picture of the scene of death on Mr. Grant's
subconscious mind ; an impression which worked itself out in the rude
drawings, as a " motor message," and afterwards returned both as a vision
in hypnotic trance, and as a "crystal-vision" in the waking state. Here,
however, as in all similar cases, we cannot exclude the possibility of a wide
clairvoyance on the percipient's own part. The full psychical history of
214 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
every such percipient should he studied ;—a matter hard of attainment in
Mr. Grant's case, owing to his absorption in business, and his residence at
Marahu, in Brazil.
In the first new case which I shall quote there was already a vivid
emotional shock in neighbouring minds, from the receipt of the
message, which may have facilitated—some may say have caused—the
apparition seen by the man to whom the news had not yet been de
livered.
This letter was addressed to the late Professor Adams, at Cambridge.
G. 210.
St. Luke's Church, Cer Van Ness-avenue, and Clay-street,
San Francisco, California, September 11th, 1890.
Dear Sir,—I received to-day from some officer of your Society a few
circulars re your work. These circulars remind me of an interesting and
curious occurrence in my parish a few weeks ago, which may be useful as a
contribution to your investigations. I will detail it briefly and without
names ; but if you find it valuable will try to obtain affidavits, Ac. Let me
premise by saying that I am in the position of " reserving my judgment "
about such phenomena as you investigate. I do not deny that such things
occur, nor have I of my own experience any knowledge on the subject.
My choir-trainer, a man in robust health and with a predisposition against
anything " Spiritualistic," saw plainly the apparition of one of his choir, a
man of fifty years old. It happened thus :—
Mr. R[ussell], the bass-singer of the choir, fell in an apoplectic fit upon the
street at 10 o'clock on a certain Friday ; he died at 11 o'clock at his house.
My wife, learning of his death, sent my brother-in-law down to the house of
the choirmaster [Mr. Reeves] to ask him about music for the funeral. The
messenger reached the house of the choirmaster about 1.30 p.m. He was told
that the choirmaster was upstairs, busy looking over some music. He
accordingly sat down in the drawing-room, and, while waiting, began to tell
the ladies (sister and niece of the choirmaster) about Mr. R.'s death. While
they were talking they heard an exclamation in the hall-way. Someone said,
" My God ! " They rushed out, and halfway down, sitting on the stairs, saw
the choirmaster in his shirt-sleeves, showing signs of great fright and con
fusion. As soon as he saw them he exclaimed, " I have just seen R. ! " The
niece at once said, " Why, R. is dead ! " At this the choirmaster without a
word turned back upstairs and went to his room. My brother-in-law
followed him and found him in complete prostration, his face white, Ac. He
then told my brother-in-law what he had experienced.
He had been looking over some music ; had just selected a "Te Deum" for
the morning service. This "Te Deum" closed with a quartette setting fortwo
bass and two tenor voices. He . was wondering where he could get a second
tenor. Finally, he went to the door on his way downstairs to look up
another " Te Deum." At the door he' saw Mr. R., who stood with one
hand on his brow, and one hand extended, holding a sheet of music. The
choirmaster advanced, extended his hand, and was going to speak, when the
figure vanished. Then it was that ho gave the exclamation mentioned above.
On Indications of Continued. Terrene Knowledge, &c. 215
You must remember that he knew nothing of R.'s death until ho
heard his niece speak of it as detailed above.
This is the best authenticated ghost story I ever heard. I know all the
parties well, and can vouch for their truthfulness. I have no doubt that the
choirmaster saw something, either subjectively or objectively. Whatever it
was, the experience was so vivid that it made him sick for days, though he
is a man of exceptional physique.
At first I tried to explain this on natural grounds. I thought possibly ho
had been in the room overhead, and had overheard, unconsciously, the story
of R.'s death, and by a process of unconscious cerebration summoned up
the image of the dead man. But this is impossible, because the house is very
large, the rooms widely apart, &c.
My present conviction is this : Mr. R. was a man of the utmost regu
larity and faithfulness in fulfilling his duties. He has sung for us without
pay for many years. His first thought (or one of the first), after his stroke
of apoplexy, must have been : " How shall I get word to the choirmaster
that I cannot go to rehearsal to-morrow night ? " In an hour he died,
without ever having recovered consciousness. My notion is that in some
way he was enabled to make himself appear to the choirmaster. If you refer
to the attitude in which he appeared, you will see that it answers to my
supposition. It indicates his illness (a pain in the head), and his desire to
give up, so to speak, his duty as singer.
You probably have many other incidents of this nature on record. If
you have any theory about them I wish you would send me a copy of whatever
you have bearing on this.
It is interesting to me because it is so perfectly authenticated.—Yours
faithfully, Wh. W. Davis,Rector.
Mr. Reeves' own account is reported in the San Francisco Chronicle
(quoted in Light, September 27th, 1890) as "a tale told to a Chronicle reporter
by a gentleman who would be at once pronounced the last person in tho
world to become the prey of superstition or the victim of delusion.
"Early on Friday morning Edwin Russell, an Englishman, well known as
a real estate agent, was walking near the corner of Sutter and Mason streets
when he sustained an apoplectic stroke, from the effects of which he died
shortly before noon. He had resided in the city ten years, and was well and
favourably known in the commercial world here.
" Mr. Russell was a member of the Protestant Episcopal Church, and also
the possessor of a rich bass voice. This made him a welcome addition to the
choir of St. Luke's Church, and brought him in immediate contact with tho
Rev. W. W. Davis, vicar of the church, and with Harry E. Reeves, the
recently appointed choir leader. Mr. Reeves is a nephew of the distinguished
English tenor of the name, and conducted the musical services at the funeral
of President Chester A. Arthur.
'' It was to Mr. Reeves that the very sensational and startling revelation
now to be recorded was vouchsafed. Mr. Reeves was found at the residence
of his sister, Mrs. Cavanagh, 2,121, California-street, by a Chronicle reporter.
He became evidently agitated when asked if it were true that he had seen tho
apparition of Russell before hearing of the latter's death.
216 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
" ' I will tell you all about it,' said Mr. Reeves, 'and, if you allow me, I
will illustrate the matter by showing you the positions I occupied during this
strange affair. I want to say at once that I am not a Spiritualist, and have
always been very sceptical about all stories of post-mortem appearances and
ghosts generally.
" ' I last saw Russell alive on the Saturday night previous to his death.
Russell came to the choir rehearsal. I said to him : " Do you know where I
can get a good cigar ? " tmd he recommended a place. I went there with him,
and then took such a fancy to him that I invited him to come to my house, or
rather my sister's house. We agreed to postpone his visit till the following
Saturday, and he said : "Well, I'll call on you next week anyhow." The
matter passed from my mind until Friday afternoon, about three o'clock. I
always make it a point to look over my music for Sunday a day or two before,
and on this occasion I was sitting in the parlour and took up two "Te Deums"
to make a choice. One was Starkweather's in G, the other a composition of
Kroell's. Just as I had taken one in my hand and was going upstairs to my
room to look over it I heard the front door bell ring, and recognised that
some visitor whom I did not then know had called. I afterwards learned that
it was young Mr. Sprague, who can tell you his story when you ask him.
'"I went into my room [illustrating the action as he ascended the stairs and
opened the door into a well-lighted and comfortably-furnished sleeping apart
ment, with a lounge and parlour organ]. I lay down on the lounge for a
moment, then by an impulse I cannot account for, I walked to the door. Tho
head of the stairway was somewhat dimly lighted, as you see it now, but not
so dimly but what I could at once see what appeared to be . the figure of
Russell. It was so real, so lifelike, that I at once stepped forward and
stretched out my hand, and was about to speak some words of welcome.
' ' ' The figure seemed to have a roll of music in one hand and the other over
its face, but it was Russell's image. I am quite sure of that. As I advanced
to the head of the stairway the figure seemed to turn, as if about to descend,
and faded into the air.'
'' Mr. Reeves' manner during the recital was precisely that of a person with
well-balanced mind who had seen something horrible and startling, but was
willing and ready to accept a rational explanation if any were forthcoming.
He went on to say :—
" ' I remember trying to speak to the figure, but the tongue clung to the
roof of my mouth. Then I fell against the wall and gasped out. "All ! My
God ! " just like that. My sister and niece, with the other folks, came up.
My niece said, " Uncle Harry, what's the matter?" I went on to explain
what it was, but was so scared I could hardly speak. My niece said, " Don't
you know Russell is dead?" Well, that flabbergasted me ; it only made
matters worse, and I nearly fainted. Then they told me that the Rev. Mr.
Davis had sent Mr. Sprague to tell me of the sad news. I was terribly
startled by the affair, and feel shaky even now, but I am not given to super
stitious fears, and I suppose it can be explained. Mr. Sprague had been
waiting nearly half an hour before I saw him and obtained corroboration of
the news of Russell's death. It is very strange ; very strange, indeed. I saw
that man Russell after he must have been dead three hours at least, as plainly
as I see you in that chair.'
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, iL-c. 217
" In an interview with Mr. Sprague the essential features of this strange
story were confirmed. It is a significant departure from the routine ghost
story that all the persons connected with this case are unconnected with any
Spiritualistic organisation, are of well-balanced mind, thoughtful, and
sceptical on all sensational matters. Mr. Reeves is not only a man in the
prime of life, of temperate habits, and in good health, but he is also a person
of strong nerve, a man of the world, a Master Mason, and the last person in
the world to be scared by a ghost or a mediumistic imposition."
Mr. Reeves confirms this account in a letter to Dr. Hodgson as follows :—
San Francisco, September 15th, 1890.
Richard Hodgson, Esq.
Dear Sir,—With reference to your favour of 5th hat., just received, the
full particulars were given in city papers ; some things not just exactly as
stated, especially the word " flabbergasted," which is foreign to me.
Apart from what you read, there is nothing more to be given.—With
best wishes, yours very truly,
H. E. Reeves.
We have receiied the following independent and corroborative
account from Mr. Sprague :—
Goldwin S. Sprague.
Grand Forks, Dak., Nwember 29th, 1890.
Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—Your communication was received some time ago, but I have
been greatly pressed for time and unable to answer.
You probably know all about Mr. Russell's death and connection with
St. Luke's Church, so I shall only give you the facts as they came to
my knowledge.
On Friday noon, August 22nd, a young lady friend of the Russells came
to my brother-in-law's (Mr. Davis's) house and asked to see Mr. Davis. As
Mr. Davis was out, his wife (my sister) saw this young lady. I was not
present at the interview, but my sister told me shortly afterwards the facts
of Mr. Russell's death, &c, and said that [this young lady had come to ask
Mr. Davis if the church choir would be willing to sing at Mr. Russell's
funeral, as Mr. R.'s family were of limited means and could not afford to
pay the choir.
As I was going to Mr. Reeves' house that afternoon my sister asked me
to tell Mr. Reeves about Russell's death and ask him about the singing. I
called at 1,221, California-street, about 3 [three] o'clock that afternoon, and
had been in the parlour some 20 [twenty] minutes talking with Miss
Kavanagh (Mr. Reeves' nieca), when we heard Mr. Reeves' exclamation on
the stairs, and I followed Miss Kavanagh to see what the trouble was. We
found Mr. R. sitting on the stairs in his shirt sleeves and evidently very
much frightened. Miss K. brought him a glass of wine, also a glass of water,
but I think he did not touch either. After a couple of minutes Mr. R. went
up to his room, and Miss Kavanagh asked me to go up and see if he was all
right, as she was afraid to go. I went up and found Mr. Reeves sitting down
on a chair near the window with his legs crossed. He had no coat or vest,
collar or necktio on, and the perspiration seemed to roll off him. He seemed
9.
218 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
greatly agitated, but in a few minutes he told me his story and I left him.
In about 5 [five] minutes he came downstairs and began to talk about it, and
continually said, " It is the strangest thing ; I can't understand it."
Goldwin S. Spkague.
The next two cases are so grotesque that I have been tempted to
suppress them. But it is not my business to apologise for the forms
which supernormal phenomena happen to take ; and the amount of
evidence in each case seems enough to make it my duty to allow my
readers to form their own opinion.
The principal percipient in the case which here follows is known to
me, and is a sensible witness, and much in earnest as to the reality of
this her unique supernormal experience.
G. 211.
Written out by F. W. H. M., December 22nd, 1888, from notes taken
during an interview with Mrs. Davies the same day ; revised and signed
by Mrs. Davies.
About 20 years ago I was living with my mother and brother at Islington.
Near us lived a family whose name is not important to the narrative. One
of their daughters married a Mr. J. W., who wont to India. Mrs. J. W.
continued living at her father's house. Her father, however, changed his
residence, and as Mr. J. W.'s address in India was not known at the time,
Mrs. J. W. could not inform him of the change of address. The house where
she was living with her father when her husband left home passed to a family
whom I will call Brown, with whom I was acquainted, as I also was with Mrs.
J. W. and her family.
One evening I paid a visit to Mrs. Brown, and she gave me an Indian
letter which had arrived for Mrs. J. W. at the house now occupied by the
Browns. Mrs. Brown asked mo to transmit this letter to Mrs. J. W. through
my brother, who frequently saw a brother of Mrs. J. W.'s. There had thus
been some little delay, and perhaps slackness, in getting the letter sent on to
Mrs. J. W. I promised to give it to my brother, and took it home. It was
a dirty looking letter, addressed in an uneducated handwriting, and of ordinary
bulk. I placed it on the chiumey-piece in our sitting-room, and sat down
alone. I expected my brother home in an hour or two. The letter, of course,
in no way interested me. In a minute or two I heard a ticking on the
chimney-piece, and it struck me that an old-fashioned watch which my mother
always had standing in her bedroom must have been brought downstairs. I
went to the chimney-piece, but there was no watch or clock there or elsewhere
in the room. The ticking, which was loud and sharp, seemed to proceed
from the letter itself. Greatly surprised, I removed the letter and put it on
a sideboard, and then in one or two other places ; but the ticking continued,
proceeding undoubtedly from where the letter was each time. After an hour
or so of this I could bear the thing no longer, and went out and sat in the
hall to await my brother. When ho came in I simply took him into the sitting-
room and asked him if ho heard anything. He said at once, " I hear a watch
or clock ticking." There was no watch or clock, as I have said, in the room.
He went to where the letter was and exclaimed, " Why the letter is ticking."
We then listened to it together, moved it about, and satisfied ourselves that
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 219
the ticking proceeded from the letter, which, however, plainly contained
nothing but a sheet of paper. The impression which the ticking made was
that of an urgent call for attention. My brother took the letter to Mrs. J. W.
either that night (it was very late) or next morning. On opening it, she
found that her husband had suddenly died of sunstroke, and the letter was
written by some servant or companion to inform her of his death. The
ticking no doubt made my brother and myself hand on the letter more
promptly than we might otherwise have done.
I have never experienced any other hallucination of the senses. I once
heard a strong push at the street-door at the minute (for I looked at my
watch) that my father died at a distance ; but, though I went to the door afc
once and saw no one, I cannot, of course, be sure that some passer-by might
not have pushed the door and got out of sight ; for the house was in a street
with many passers. I have also heard ticks before a death ; but these may
very likely have been caused by the death-watch insect ; which certainly was
not the case with the ticks which came from the letter. The incident of the
letter made a deep impression on me.
(Signed) Anna Davies.
Mr. Davies, brother to Mrs. Davies (who married a gentleman of the
same name), gives his independent recollection as follows :—
(i4, Church-road, Southgate-road, N.
February 13th, 1889.
I am afraid my recollection of the details after so long a time has elapsed
is rather limited and somewhat hazy, so that if my sister has expanded into
details, and her version should slightly differ from mine, please consider that
I bow to her superior memory, and accept her account as correct. The main
features of the incident are, however, as nearly as I can recollect, as follow :—
One night, it must be nearly, if not quite, 30 years ago, I returned home
between 10 and 11 o'clock, and my sister told me that she had brought home
from the house of a friend of hers a letter from India, addressed to a
Mrs. Walker, who had formerly lived at the house the letter was directed to,
and being acquainted with Mrs. Walker (whose brother was an intimate
friend of mine), I was asked to be the bearer of the letter to her. I found it
on the mantel shelf, and my sister and myself heard very distinctly a clear
ticking noise, as loud as, and similar to, that of a small clock, which we spent
some time in trying to account for, and which we could so clearly trace to
the vicinity of the letter that it seemed to proceed from the letter itself, but
we could find nothing which would in any way account for what we heard. I
delivered the letter to my friend the following day to hand to his sister, Mrs.
Walker, and afterwards heard that it contained the news of the decease of
her husband in India. I am not quite sure but almost so, that on hearing
the mysterious noise we remarked on the probable contents of the letter, but
we were certainly struck with the coincidence of the noise being heard whilst
the letter was on the shelf (and apparently proceeding from it) and discon
tinuing on its removal.
I have no means of fixing the date, or even the year, as Mrs. Walker and
her brother have both been dead for some years.
L. A. Davies.
Q 2
220 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
The next ease is even more perplexing.
. G. 212.
Wis., September 22iirf, 1890.
Prof. Wm. James.
A very unusual thing occurred to the writer and one other person—my
sister, Miss Mary Q. —at the city of , Wisconsin, on the 5th day of
November, 1885, at 10 o'clock p.m.
Our mother, Mrs. Mary Margaret Q. R., died at our home, in said city of
, Wisconsin, on the above date, at 8.40 p.m., very suddenly, of pneumonia.
Our youngest half-brother, Robert B. R., was working at S , N. Dakota,
at that time, about 700 miles distant from , Wisconsin. At 9.45 we
retired to the guests' chamber, a room over the south parlour, and about the
sams dimensions as said parlour, having two windows to the south and one to
the east. There were two beds in this large room, and I lay on one and my
sister on the other, trying to compose our broken hearts, for we loved our
mother very dearly. The night was cold and the windows were all closed,
except the east was down at the top a few inches, when, lo ! we both dis
tinctly heard at the same instant my brother, Robert B. R., singing, "We
had better bide a wee," in a clear, deep tenor, accompanied by a high-
pitched soprano and an old-fashioned small melodeon accompaniment, and it
sounded as though they were up on a level with our windows, about 15 feet
from the ground ; and I arose and threw up the south-west window, from
whence the sounds seemed to proceed, and then they—the singing—moved
to the next, or south-east, window, and sang another verse. And I threw
that up and saw nothing, but still distinctly heard the rvords as well as the
music, and so round to the east window, where they sang the last verse, and
then the music seemed to float away to the north. But the queer part of
this occurrence is the fact that at the very time that we heard my brother
singing in , Wisconsin, he teas singing the same song before an audience,
with the identical accompaniment, an old, tiny melodeon, and a high-pitched
soprano young lady—a Miss E. , of North Dakota—as we learned two days
afterwards, when he came home in response to our telegram announcing the
death of our mother.
Any verification of the above facts will be cheerfully made.
(Signed) [Miss Q.]
, Wis., October 11th, 1890.
Dear Sir,—Yours of the 6th inst. was duly received, and in reply
to your request for corroborative testimony relative to the "phenomenal
occurrence" on the night of November 5th, 1885, at Janesville, Rock Co.,
Wisconsin—that is, the hearing music and two human voices, and the words
distinctly audible—one voice perfectively familiar to us as that of our half-
brother, Robert B. R., then of N. Dakota, and the other voice that of a
strange lady—soprano, and they, my said brother R. B. R., and Miss Sarah
E., of N. Dak., were, singing that simc song, "We had better bide a wee,"
at an entertainment given by a church society of S , a printed pro
gramme of which my brother afterwards sent to us :—
I am an exceedingly busy person, but a lover of the truth, and interested
in the progress of the race ; but my sister, Miss Mary Q., of this city, is
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, Ac. 221
very conservative and proud, and when I asked her for an affidavit of her
experience on that eventful 5th of November, 1885, she replied, " I do not
wish the world to think me or you a ' crank ' or Spiritualist, and do not
wish our names published." I will add that my sister, who is blind, is
renj intuitive and clairvoyant, and there is much, in her experience to deeply
interest the psychical student. It seems to me that the loss of her sight has
been compensated by another sense—a super-intuition.
I have written to my brother, R. B. R., to reply to your request and
also to obtain a programme of the church entertainment at S , N. Dak . , on
November 5th, 1885, at which he and Miss Sarah E. sang " We had better
bide a wee,'' and also to state the exact hour when they were called in the
programme, for as Robert stated to us when he arrived on that sad occasion
—the death of our good mother—he informed us that the telegram was
brought to him, and was held by the operator so as not to spoil the entertain
ment by telling him before he sang, and we—my sister Mary Q. and I—both
heard every note and word of that song sung about seven hundred (700)
miles away, while our mother's remains were in the parlour under our
bedroom . — Cordially yours,
(Signed) [Miss Q.'J
Miss Mary Q.
, Wis., November 15th, 1890.
Richard Hodgson, Esq.
Dear Sir,—[In reply to] your kind note of inquiry, relative to my ex
periences on the night of November 5th, 1885, they were such as have been
described by my sister [Miss Q.], who is a lover of scientific research, and is
not so timid as I and my brother ; the latter is very much opposed to either
of us making known our experience on that night, and has urged me not to
tell anyone of the occurrences of that eventful time, and he refuses to fur
nish the printed programme of the entertainment, at which he and Miss E.
were singing "We had better bide a wee," insisting that people will believe
us all "luny" if we make known all the facts ; and so in deference to his
prejudices I must respectfully decline to make any further disclosures at
present.—Respectfully yours, [Miss Mary Q.]
Per Amanuensis.
December VMh.—A letter of inquiry sent to Mr. Robert B. " R.," and an
envelope, with official stamp of our Society on the cover, has been returned
to me, unopened, by Mr. Robert B. "R.," so that further corroboration is
lacking, at least for the present.—R.H.
It will be observed that Miss Mary Q.'s letter is virtually a confir
mation of Miss Q.'s account ; and that Mr. Q.'s action is in harmony
with his sister's belief that he cannot deny, but does not wish to
confirm, the truth of this singular narrative.
Are we in this case to assume any agency on the part of the deceased
mother? Was her mind conscious of the scene at the concert-room,
and did she transfer it to her daughters ? Or did they become clair-
voyantly aware of it ? Or was it flashed upon them from the mind of
the telegraph operator, who was the only living person who both knew
of the death and heard the song ? If we are to press the details of the
222 Mr. F. W. H. MUers.
story, we might say that the long continuance, and apparently shifting
position, of the phantasmal music indicated not so much an involuntary
flashing of the scene upon the daughters' minds as a deliberate effort to
attract their attention.
Let us pass on to inquire whether the phantom ever shows knowledge
of events in an earthly friend's life not connected with the decedent's
own death. Such cases, as already remarked, (Proceedings, Vol. VI.,
32,) are very rare. Here is one where the decedent, who had been
strongly interested in an event which was closely approaching when he
died, seems to choose the occasion of that event to manifest his.
continued interest in the friend whom the little crisis—a theatrical
performance—closely concerned. It is at least not easy to see any other
explanation of the fact that a moment of the percipient's eager excite
ment about a quite different matter was also the moment when the
phantom took shape before her eyes.
G. 195. Transitional.
The following account of an apparition two days after the death of the
person seen was written down by me from the verbal account of the per
cipient, Miss J., and corrected and signed by her :—
Amjiot 4th, 1890.
On the evening of Saturday, April 26th, 1890, I was engaged with my
sister and other friends in giving an amateur performance of the Autigone, at
the Westminster Town Hall.
A passage led down to several dressing-rooms used by the ladies who
were taking part in the representation, and nowhere else. None of the
public had any business down this passage ; although a friend came to the
door of the dressing-room once to speak to some of us.
I was passing from one dressing-room to another, a few steps further
along the passage, just before going on to the stage, when I saw in the
passage, leaning against the door-post of the dressing-room which I left, a
Mr. H., whom I had met only twice, but whom I knew well by sight, and as
an acquaintance, though I had heard nothing of him for two years. I held
out my hand to him, saying, "Oh, Mr. H., I am so glad to see you." In the
excitement of the moment it did not occur to me as odd that he should have
come thus to the door of the dressing-room,— although this would have been
an unlikely thing for a mere acquaintance to do. There was a brilliant light,
and I did not feel the slightest doubt as to his identity. He was a tall, sin
gular-looking man, and used to wear a frock-coat buttoned unusually high
round the throat. I just observed this coat, but noticed nothing else about
him specially except his face. He was looking at me with a sad expression.
When I held out my hand he did not take it, but shook his head slowly, with
out a word, and walked away down the passage—back to the entrance. I did
not stop to look at him, or to think over this strange conduct, being in a
great hurry to finish dressing in time.
Next day, as a number of us were talking over the performance, my sister
called out to me, " You will be sorry to hear that Mr. H. is dead." "Surely
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 223
not," I exclaimed, " for I saw him last night at the Antigone." It turned
out that he had been dead two days when I saw the figure.
I have never experienced any other hallucination of the senses.
Miss J.'s sister, Lady M., writes :—
Augmt 4th, 1890.
The day after the performance of the Antigone I heard unexpectedly that
Mr. H. was dead (I had not known that he was ill), and I mentioned the fact
to my sister, at a party. She seemed greatly astonished, and said that she
had seen him at the Antigone the night before. Mr. H. had only met my
sister twice ; but I happened to know, from a conversation which I had with
him, that he had been greatly interested in her. An announcement of the
performance of the Antigone was found in a small box of papers which he had
with him at his death.
I think it most unlikely that there should have been any mistake of iden
tity, as the passage where the figure was seen led only to the dressing-rooms.
But in order to satisfy myself on this point, I sent an account of the occur
rence to the papers. It was widely copied, and I received letters on the
subject. If the figure had been some living man, I think that the fact would
probably have come out. Mr. H.'s appearance was very peculiar.
Mr. W. S. Lilly, the well-known Roman Catholic author, corroborates as
follows :—
Augmt Mh, 1890.
I was present at a party when Lady M. suddenly informed her sister,
Miss J., of the death of Mr. H. I can bear witness to Miss J.'s extreme
astonishment, and her exclamation, " Why, I saw him last night at the
Antigone."
We have referred to the Times, where the death of Mr. H. is announced
as having taken place on April 24th, 1890.
The account spoken of by Lady M. was sent to the papers within a week
of the occurrence.
But the paucity of apparitions of dead persons at moments when
events which would have interested those dead persons are happening
is noticeable on any view of the phenomena. Those who hold that
such apparitions are always purely subjective, and mainly due to
excited expectancy, would look for a special crop of them at these
emotional moments. And on the other hand those who hold that the
dead are really engaged in watching over the living would anticipate
more frequent indications of their guardianship and care. I am dis
posed to think that the objection to publicity which stifles so many
of our best narratives operates here with more than usual strength.
For instance, the experience given in Proceedings, VI., p. 26, is one
which many informants less concerned that truth should be known
would have entirely suppressed. Another case privately told to mo by
one of the percipients, where an apparition seen by both persons
present averted a deed of violence, will certainly never see the light.
224 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
In the Journal for January, 1891, we have printed a case where a
deceased mother is seen, as though floating in the church, at the moment
of her son's confirmation. The percipient, however, had been well
acquainted with the deceased lady's aspect, so that there is here no
evidence of external agency, except the fact that the percipient had
had other similar experiences, of which some at least, if not all, seem
certainly to have been veridical.
And here we approach the question of so-called " spirit guardian
ship,"—the question whether a departed spirit may continue habitually
in some sense in the neighbourhood of a friend still on earth. Like all
the more attractive hypotheses throughout our range of inquiry, this
hypothesis has suffered from the amount of bad evidence adduced to
support it. It is the favourite commonplace of the fraudulent "clair
voyant medium"; and, apart from conscious fraud, it is the response
which most often presents itself as the mere reflection of the bereaved
person's desire. But worthless evidence does not disprove a theory,
any more than it proves it ; nor need it greatly surprise us if that
impalpable telepathic connection which sometimes seems to be long
maintained between two living persons were to persist after the
removal of one of them by bodily death. Especially where the decedent
has telepathically affected his friend at the hour of death shall we look
with interest for any account of a similar influence posthumously
exercised. In this connection the following case deserves record. The
writer, Princess di Cristoforo, who is personally known to me, is the
wife of Colonel Wickham, of 7, Comeragh-road, W. ; but is of Greek
and Maltese descent. The names given to the decedents are not the
real ones.
L. 854. Ai1 P»
On the evening of March 13th, 1879, I was dressing myself to go to a
dinner party at Admiralty House, Vittorioea, Malta. I had accepted Admiral
and Mrs. 's invitation, much against my will, as a dear friend was lying
seriously ill at Brighton. However, the latest accounts had been so cheering
and hopeful that I had allowed myself to be persuaded by my husband into
going. An eerie feeling was creeping over me in an unaccountable manner,
but I tried to throw it off and succeeded in doing so to a certain extent ;
still, something made me turn my head round and stare into my husband's
dressing-room, which opened into mine. I distinctly saw a hand waving
backwards and forwards twice. I rushed into the room—it was empty.
Soon afterward, my husband came upstairs, and 1 told him what I had seen,
but ho put it down to "nerves." As we crossed the water the cool night
air seemed to revive me and I began to laugh at myself for letting my
imagination play such tricks. Arrived at the Admiral's, the same weird feel
ing, that something was near me, crept over me again. I felt sure that if I
were to turn round I should see something. All through dinner this idea
remained fixed in my mind— and my host, by whom I was seated, teased mo
On Indications .of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 225
about my preoccupation and want of appetite. I was glad when we came
away ; had the horrible tension continued much longer I must have screamed,
I think. It was only by the most powerful effort I could assume the sem
blance of composure. We got home, somehow, and I dragged myself upstairs
to my room, and commenced undressing. Whilst taking down my hair I
distinctly felt a hand pass over my head and neck as if someone was assisting
me. I told my husband—to be again laughed at. I knelt to say my prayers.
Instead of praying (as I had been used to do) for God to make my friend
well, I, without any will of my own, prayed that he might be taken out of
his misery. I went to bed. Something came and lay beside me. I clung to
my husband, who tried to calm me, assuring me there was nothing there to
hurt or frighten me. A cold mouth seemed to freeze on my cheek, and I
distinctly heard, "Good-bye, Sis, good-bye," in my friend's well-known
voice. Still my husband declared he could hear nothing. I said, " I am sure
Mr. Abbott is dead." My husband said I was hysterical and over-wrought,
drew me towards him and held my hand till I fell asleep—for I suppose it
was a dream and not a vision I had. Be this as it may, I saw my friend
come into my room ; a livid mark was across his face. He was dressed
in a night-shirt, and his feet were bare. Ho came and sat beside me—
told me he was dead—that he had left me some money, and before he died
had wished to make some alteration in his bequest, but the end had come so
soon, he had not time to do so. He repeated his "Good-bye," kissed me,
and disappeared.
I told my husband of my dream and marked the date. Five days after
wards a letter with a deep black border came to me from my friend's brother,
telling me his brother had passed away at 10 o'clock, March 13th. Allowing
for the difference of time, Mr. Abbott must have come to me either just
before or just after his death. The legacy left me was as he had stated,
also the fact that he had intended to make a change as regarded it, but though
the lawyer was sent for, he came too late.
Aw/xst, 1890.
Colonel Wickham corroborates as follows :—
Certified to truth of above facts.—G. H. Wickham (Lieut.-Colonel
late R.A.).
L. 865. Ai1 Pn Collective. Visual.
A friend of mine, an officer in the Gordon Highlanders, was severely
wounded in the knee at Tel-el-Kebir.
His mother was a great friend of mine, and when the ('arthage hospital
ship brought him to Malta she sent me on board to see him and make
arrangements for bringing him on shore. When I got on board I was told
his was one of the worst cases there. So badly was my poor friend wounded
that it was not considered safe to send him to the Military Hospital, and he,
together with an officer of the Black Watch, was admitted to the naval one.
By dint of much entreaty, his mother and I were allowed to go there and
nurse him. The poor fellow was very ill, and as the doctors considered he
would die if an operation was performed, they did not amputate his leg,
which was the only thing that could give him a chance of life. His leg
221i Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
mortified, but the parts sloughed away, and as he still lingered on, some
times better, sometimes worse, the doctors began to think he might, perhaps,
recover to a certain degree, though he would be lame for life, and must
eventually die of decline. For nearly three months and a half he lay on his
Vied of agony. About a month before his death the head doctor said that
the presence of a lady always near him excited him and retarded his
recovery, so I went away to my home on the other side of the harbour, going;
over frequently to see his mother and learn from her how he was. As he
would never take food or medicine, excepting from me, I was troubled to
think what the poor boy might do. At last the doctor sent for me, begging
me to go back, as he was literally dying of starvation, refusing to take food or
medicine until I returned. When I went to him he put out his hand to me
and said : " They have let you come back to me now that it is too late. I've
e:iten nothing." He lingered about a fortnight after this, and a few days
before the end I pinned the Order of the Osmanli on the front of the poor
dying boy's night-shirt. It was very cold, and the hospital draughty, my
lungs were delicate, and I got a fearful cough and kind of fever from the
impure air of the room, for I sit in an armchair by his bed all night, as he
slept butter holding my hand.
One night, January 4th, 1880, no immediate change being apprehended,
his mother made me go home to have a night's rest, as I was by this time
very ill indeed, not being strong at the best of times. He had been in a
kind of lethargy for some hours, and as the doctor said he would probably
sleep, being under the effects of morphia, until the next morning, I con
sented to go, intending to return at daybreak, so that ho should find me
there when he awoke. About three o'clock that night my eldest son, who
was sleeping in my room, woke me with the cry of : " Mamma ! there is
Mr. Blake!" I started up ! It was quite true. He floated through the room
about half a foot from the floor, smiling at me as he disappeared through the
window. He was in his night-dress, but, strange to say, his foot, of which
the toes had dropped off from mortification, wm exactly like the other one.
We (both my son and myself) noticed this. Half an hour afterwards a man
came to tell me that Mr. Blake had died at U o'clock, and I must go to his
mother, who had sent for me. She told me that he had been half consciousjust
before he died, and was feeling about for my hand, after pressing hers and
that of his soldier-servant who had remained with him to the last. I have
never forgiven myself for going home that night.
The writer's son, who was, as she informs us, nine years old at
the time of the occurrence, signs the account as follows :—
I certify to the above fact.—Edmund Wickham.
O. 640. Collective. Visual and tactile.
August, 1890.
In the summer of 1880 I was living at Stuttgart, having taken my family
there for educational reasons. We were all seated at the tea-table, talking
and laughing, when I felt an extraordinary sensation as if someone was
leaning heavily on my shoulders. I tried to turn round but literally couldn't
do so. My head was stroked, and my cup, which was full, was lifted up, and
put down half empty. Looking across the table I found my daughter's eyes
On Indications of Continued Tet~rene Knowledge, ctc. 227
fixed, and staring with a scared look in them I never wish to see again, at
the back of where I sat. I said nothing at the time, but when we were
alone together in the drawing-room I asked L. what had made her stare at, or
rather beyond, me so.
" I saw Mr. Abbott and Mr. Blake standing, one on either side of you ;
they had one of their hands on each of your shoulders, and they changed
places once," replied L.
" How were they dressed ? " I asked.
" Mr. Abbott was in his grey suit ; Mr. Blake in Highland uniform."
" Did either of them drink out of my cup ?" I asked.
" I don't know. My head was fixed as if in a photographer's rest, and I
could not take my eyes off their faces."
" Were they sad-looking ? "
" No ! They were both smiling down at you. I could not see lower than
their waists clearly ; there seemed to be a kind of haze, but their faces were
quite clear."
Both these young men had appeared to me previously—at the time of
their deaths. [See two previous accounts.] They were much attached to
me, and very fond of my little daughter. When first meeting these two men
they both told me they had seen me before—that I was in the habit of sitting
in a chair by their bedside and staring at them.
Miss Wickham has given to me, verbally and in writing, a com
pletely concordant account.
The Princess di Cristoforo believes that the same two figures have
since been described to her by a clairvoyante.
If the departed thus watch their friends on earth, it is possible that
they may acquire some retrospective or prospective insight into the
events of those friends' lives. They may, for instance, discern the
approach of death before that pnignosis is clear to an earthly physician.
A narrative of this type reaches us from America.
G. 213
January 28th, 18'Jl.
About eleven years ago I was much distressed owing to the illness of my
wife, who suffered from cancer in the stomach. I heard about a medium,
Miss Susie Nickerson White, who was said to have given some remarkable
tests, and I called on her as a stranger and requested a sitting. My wife's
sister purported to " control," giving her name, Maria, and mentioning facts
about my family which were correct. She also called my wife by her name,
Eliza Anne, described her sickness, and said that she would pass over, but
not for some months. I said, " What do you call this ? Is it psychology, or
mesmerism, or what 1 " Maria said, " I knew you were going to ask that ;
I saw it in your mind." I said, "Do you get all the things out of my
mind V She replied, " No. I'll tell you some things that are not in your
mind. Within three days Eliza Anne will say that she has seen mo and
mother, too, if I can get mother to come along." (My wife's mother had died
228 Mi: F. W. H. Myers.
about forty-five years previously, and my wife's sister had been dead from
six to eight years.)
I kept these circumstances to myself, but within three days the nurse
who was in attendance upon my wife came running to me and said that my
wife was worse, and was going out of her mind ; that she had called upon
Maria and mother, and had sprung out of bed and ran towards the door,
crying, " Stop, Maria ! Stop, mother ! Don't go yet !"
I soon consulted Miss White again, and Maria again purported to control,
My wife had been unable for some days to retain any food in her stomach,
could not keep even water or milk, and was very weak and also unable to
sleep.
Maria told me to give her some hot, very strong coffee, with plenty of
cream and sugar and some cream toast. This prescription amazed me, but it
was prepared. My wife ate and drank with relish, and slept soundly after
wards. She lived upon this food for some days, but gradually became unable
even to take this.
I consulted Miss White again, and Maria told me to get some limes, and
to give my wife some pure juice of the lime several times a day ; she said
that this would give her an appetite and enable her to retain food. The
prescription was a success ; but gradually my wife failed, and I consulted
Miss White again, and asked Maria how long my wife would continue to
suffer. She said she could not tell exactly when she would pass away, but
would give me a warning— ''The next time she says she has seen me,
don't leave her afterwards."
Some days later, as I was relieving the nurse about three or four in the
morning, the nurse said, " Mammie " (meaning my wife) "says she has seen
Maria again." In a few minutes my wife said, "I must go." And she
expired.
(Signed) E. Pahie, Mary A. Paige.
[Formerly Mary A. Dockerty, the nurse.]
[I have had long interviews with Mr. Paige. He seems to be a shrewd
and careful witness.—Richard Hodgson.]
To this may be added a French incident,—carefully observed, but in
itself not conclusive evidence for more than telepathy between living
minds.
G. 214.
In Annnles Psychiques, Part II. (March-April, 1891), p. 98, a case is given
which presents some analogy to these. The case is a recent one, and it
occurred among the immediate friends of M. Richet ; but, as will bo seen, the
apparitions were very indistinct. There was a coincidence of two dreams or
" borderland " impressions, as follows : —
1. Scaur Marthe, attending on the dying M. Bastiau, dreams with great
vividness that an unrecognised female figure, with the voice of Mme. Bastian,
dead some eight months previously, approaches the bedside of Cecile, daughter
of Mme. B. (asleep in the same room with Sueur Marthe), takes her hand, and
says, "Kile est gentille, Cecile."
2. On the same night, and at about the same time, Mme, M. Houdaille,
daughter of M. Bastian. lying in bed between sleep and waking, saw a white
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 229
figure standing beside her bed, which so alarmed her that she shrieked aloud.
Her brother, alarmed by the shriek, rushed into her room and found her with
a terrified expression.
These dreams or impressions were independently noted.
They occurred March 6th, 1891. M. Bastian died March 13th.
On the analogy of the cases given above, it is conceivable that the figure
represented Mme. Bastian, and that its appearance was induced by the
approaching end of M. Bastian.
This view, however, is obviously incapable of proof in this case.
Two other American cases may be added to this small group.
G. 215.
From Mrs. Wilson, through Prof. \V. C. Crosby, Associate member,
S.P.R.
Mrs. Caroline Rogers, 72 years old, a widow who had been twice married,
and whose first husband, a Mr. Tisdale, died about 35 years ago, has lived on
Ashland-street, in Roslindale, Mass., for the last 25 years ; and since the
death of her last child, some years ago, she has lived quite alone. Early in
March of this year she was stricken with paralysis, and after an illness of
nearly six weeks died on the afternoon of Tuesday, April 15th.
Mrs. Mary Wilson, a professional nurse, forty-five years old, attended Mrs.
Rogers during her illness, remaining with her almost constantly until she
died. She had never seen Mrs. Rogers before the latter's illness, and knew
nothing of her family or history. Mrs. Rogers spoke frequently to Mrs.
Wilson, and also to others, as had long been her custom, of her second
husband, Mr. Rogers, and her children, expressing a desire to see them
again, &c.
On the afternoon of April 14th Mrs. Rogers became unconscious, and
remained so all the time until her death twenty-four hours later. Mrs. Wilson
sat up with her through the whole of Monday night. Mrs. Wilson's daughter
Ida, twenty-five years old, kept her mother company, and a boy of ten or twelve
years slept in an adjoining chamber, to be called in case of an emergency.
These four were the only persons in the house. The outer doors were
securely locked, the door leading from the sick chamber, on the second floor,
into the hall was kept locked all the time, because it was near the foot of
Mrs. Rogers' bed ; and entrance to the sick chamber was gained by passing
from the upper hall into the living-room by a door which was locked that
night, and thence through the chamber in which the boy slept ; the two
chambers having been made to communicate by cutting a door through the
back of a small closet. This door was diagonally facing the bed on which
Mrs. Rogers lay. Mrs. Wilson rested on a settee placed at right angles to
the head of Mrs. R.'s bed, so that when lying down her face was almost
directly opposite this door and not more than ten or twelve feet from it.
The lamp, which burned brightly all night, stood on a small table in the
corner of the room directly opposite the door ; and Ida occupied a couch
against the wall and between the lamp and door.
230 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
.g*
Mrs. Roueus.
Door into chamber in which
boyslept. Itwasinthis room
thattheapparitionappeared.
Window.
Window.
Ida Wilson.
\ Table and
Lamp.
Window.
Mrs. Wilson was pretty well worn out with her long vigil ; believing that
Mrs. Rogers was dying, she was naturally very nervous and timid ; and having
heard Mrs. R. sneak frequently of seeing her departed friends, etc., she had
a feeling of expectancy and dread with regard to supernatural visitations.
Between two and three a.m., while her daughter was asleep, and while she
was resting on the settee, but wide awake, she happened to look toward the
door into the adjoining chamber and saw n man standing exactly in the door
way, the door being kept open all the time. He was middle-sized, broad-
shouldered, with shoulders thrown back, had a florid complexion, reddish-
brown hair (bare headed) and beard, and wore a brown sack overcoat, which
was unbuttoned. His expression was grave, neither stern nor pleasant, and
he seemed to look straight at Mrs. Wilson, and then at Mrs. Rogers without
moving. Mrs. Wilson supposed, of course, that it was a real man, and tried
to think how he could have got into the house. Then, as he remained quite
motionless, she began to realise that it was something uncanny, and becoming
frightened, turned her head away and called her daughter, who was still
asleep on the couch, awakening her. On looking back at the door after an
interval of a minute or two, the apparition had disappeared ; both its coming
and going wore noiseless, and Mrs. Rogers remained perfectly quiet, and so
far as could be known entirely unconscious during this time. The chamber
into which this door leads being quite dark, there was no opportunity to
observe whether or not the apparition was transparent. Mrs. Wilson shortly
afterwards went into this chamber and the living-room, but did not examine
On Indications of Contin ued Terrene Knowledge, iLc. 231
the lower part of the house until morning, when the doors were found pro
perly locked and everything all right.
In the morning Mrs. Rogers' niece, Mrs. Hildreth, who lives in the
neighbourhood, and has known Mrs. R. and her family for many years,
called at the house. Mrs. Wilson related her experience to her and asked if
the apparition resembled Mr. Rogers, and Mrs. Hildreth replied emphatically
that it did not. (All who knew Mr. Rogers are agreed on this point.) Their
conversation was interrupted then, but when resumed later in the day Mrs.
Hildreth said that Mrs. Wilson's description agreed exactly with Mr. Tisdale,
Mrs. Rogers' first husband. Mrs. Rogers came to Roslindale after marrying
Mr. Rogers, and Mrs. Hildreth is the only person in that vicinity who ever
saw Mr. Tisdale ; and in Mrs. Rogers' house there is no portrait of him nor
anything suggestive of his personal appearance. Mrs. Wilson is also very
positive that the apparition was unlike anyone she ever knew.
Mrs. Wilson has had similar experiences before, and at least one, which
occurred when she was 18 years old, which appears to have been veridical.
The foregoing account of my experience is correct in every particular.
Mary Wilson.
The foregoing is a full and accurate statement of Mrs. Wilson's experience
as she related it to me on the morning of April 15th.
F. E. Hildreth.
June oth, 1890.
Mrs. Wilson and Mrs. Hildreth have both impressed me as being intelli
gent and perfectly honest and truthful ; and I have no doubt that Mrs.
Wilson's experience was real and substantially as she has described it.
W. O. Crosuy.
The next case was sent to us by Mrs. Reynolds, Millington House,
Thelwall, Warrington.
G. 221. Congleton, Cheshire.
March 23rd, 1892.
A friend of mine,namcd Mrs. Johnson, died in November, 1877; she had
been confined just over a week. A few days before she died she said to me,
" I am going to die," and asked me to take care of her baby, which I did
until it died three months after. The night before she died we were awakened
between twelve and one o'clock by a noise like tapping at the window
twice. My husband got up and went downstairs, but could see nothing. So
we tried to settle to sleep again, when all of a sudden we were alarmed by
our little boy, who was not quite two years old, calling out "Auntie," by
which name he used to call her, and pointing towards the foot of the bed,
and there I saw her standing all in white. She died the next morning
(Thursday) between nine and ten. She appeared again a second time three
months later ; it would be about midnight. My husband saw her standing
by the fire. At first he thought it was I, until he turned round and saw I
was in bed. We were very much frightened for a long time after. The
baby died the next day about three o'clock in the afternoon (Thursday).
They both died on the Thursday to the best of our knowledge. And it was
on the Sunday when they were both buried. We can't recollect the exact day
232 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
of the month, as they had no cards printed for either. The mother died in
November, 1877, the baby in February, 1878. This is as near a trua
account as we can give, it being so long ago, nearly fifteen years since.
Mary Jane Pedley.
James Pedlev.
Mrs. Reynolds adds, under date March 24th, 1892 :—
Mr. Reynolds and I went to Congleton yesterday, and called upon Mr.
and Mrs. Pedley. We heard the story from both.
It seems that when Mrs. Pedley saw the apparition on its first appear
ance she screamed, and frightened her husband so much that he dared
not look.
There was a light in the room on both occasions. We saw the son who
called out " Auntie "—a youth between 16 and 17 years of age.
Mr. and Mrs. Pedley consent to the story being published, with names
and address. —Believe me, yours sincerely,
Edith Reynolds.
He told me that he looked several times, and each time saw it standing
by the fire. Mrs. Johnson is stated to have been unconscious the- night
before she died.
E. R.
Mrs. Pedley subsequently procured for us the certificates of death which
follow, and which show that each death occurred on a Thursday, as she had
remembered.
Annie Johnson died on the 1st of November, 1877, at Thomas-street,
Congleton, aged 23 years.
Elijah Johnson died on the 31st of January, 1878, at Thomas-street,
Congleton, aged 14 weeks.
Given this 24th March, 1892.
W. Henry Carter,
Deputy Superintendent Registrar.
Congleton.
A point of difficulty which often meets us in estimating the know
ledge possessed by the departed is as follows :—
Cases occur where there is certainly some kind of coincidence,—say
an apparition at the moment of death—but along with this coincidental
apparition of a dying person there is an apparition or dream of some
other person, already known as deceased. Suppose, for instance, that a
mother loses her son at a distance ; and while that son is dying sees
him in a dream accompanied by his long-dead father. Here, consider
ing the symbolical character of the details in many of these veridical
dreams, we have no right to assume that the father's figure is itself
more than a symbol. On the other hand, it is, of course, conceivable
that the father may be welcoming the son in some other world, and
that both may be able to appear together to the surviving wife and
mother.
The case which follows is interesting, as showing that a monition of
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 233
death which at first appears of simple type may in reality be based
upon a background of symbolism involving the possible action of a
deceased relative.
A young German lady, whom I will call Friiulein A., known to me
as governess in the house of friends, sent to me in January, 1892, a
statement which I here translate.
G. 216.
"On November 23rd, 1890, while I held my [previous] situation as
governess at H., I was awakened at half-past six by a strong smell of death.
Before awakening I had had a vision of the corpse of my brother Carl, who
was at that time at Zurich. Alarmed by this strange dream, I sent a
telegram to Zurich, in which I said that I would return home if my brother
were dangerously ill. [In a further letter Friiulein A. explains that
November 23rd was a Sunday, and that her pupil's lessons prevented her
from telegraphing till the afternoon of November 24th ; as she did not like
to mention her wish to send a telegram merely because of a dream.} I
received a telegraphic reply which advised me to remain where I was. Two
days later I received from my relations the news of the death of my brother
Carl, which had taken place at 6 a.m. on November 23rd, 1890."
The date of the death is confirmed by a " Todtenschein " sent to
Friiulein A. from the Civilstandbeamte of the Civilstandskreis in which the
death occurred. Friiulein A. has kindly presented us with this certificate.
The fact of the receipt of Fraulein A.'s telegram is testified to by Fraulein
Pauline Tobler, who writes as follows from Zcirich, February 12th, 1892 :—
The undersigned bears witness that between herself and Fraulein [A.],
then in Helensburgh, on November 24th, 1890, at 6 p.m. a telegram and
reply passed as follows: —"Wenn Carl gefahrlich erkrankt, komm nach
Hause. Antwort." " Conseille rester." Patjlink Tobler.
We learn from the General Post Office, Edinburgh, that the forms of
foreign telegrams are preserved for six months only. Nor has the Zurich
post-office preserved a copy. We cannot, therefore, produce the original de
spatch. It is obvious, however, from Fraulein Tobler's evidence, that Friiulein
A. telegraphed while unaware of her brother's death. Thus far, then, the case
appeared to be a well-attested dream of death, promptly acted upon, but
with no unusual features. In conversation with Fraulein A. , however, I found
that she regarded the incident in a different light ; as forming one of a
series of instances in which her departed mother had informed her of events
closely concerning her. One of these instances was too private for publica
tion ; the rest Fraulein A. records as follows :—
"On May 31st, 1887, my dear mother died. I had nursed her during
her illness ; and before her death I begged her to send me some intimation
if anything of importance were to happen in our family. She promised me
to do this, so far as might be possible to her.
"In December, 1889, I left Switzerland, and went to London, and thence
took a temporary engagement as governess near Welwyn. In February,
1890, my mother appeared to me in a dream. She held in her hand three
small nosegays, each of them consisting of a bunch of green leaves and a
primrose ; and signed to me to choose one of them. I stretched out ni'y
R
234 Mr, F. W. H, Myers.
hand to the middle one. Before I had grasped it, the flower fell. My
mother pointed to the fallen flower, and turned sadly away. The dream
impressed me strangely, as I had three brothers, of whom the middle one
had been specially recommended to my care by my dying mother. I inquired
at once after his health ; but he was quite well.
"In the following June, 1890, I saw my mother again in a dream, as
though on her deathbed. This dream was repeated. After the second
dream I woke, and again slept and dreamt. This time I saw my brother,
already mentioned ; his cheeks red with fever. Alarmed by this dream I
wrote home next day, but could hear of nothing unusual. I was reassured ;
and dreamt no more until some months later I dreamt of my brother as dead.
It was only after his death that I learnt that at the time when I dreamt of
him as in a fever he actually had influenza. He recovered ; but died some
months later from a second attack.
"These were the only dreams which have ever left a deep and permanent
impression upon me—the only dreams upon which I have ever acted."
It is, of course, conceivable that the mother's figure seen in dream
may have been merely a symbolic form assumed by a telepathic message
from the still living brother. On the other hand, we have the mother's
dying promise to bring just such messages, if possible, from her new
world.i
In Fraulein A.'s case the intimations, as will have been observed,
are wordlessly conveyed, and so it is with the majority of these visions.
i I add in a note a case where the apparition conveys information which leads to
important results ; in the hope that the publication of the narrative, which is now
obtainable only at second hand, may lead to the improvement of the evidence. We
have the real names ; the transmitter of the case, Mrs. Bodington, n medical prac
titioner at Matsqui, British Columbia, and author of a book of lectures on Evolu
tion, is known to us by correspondence as a painstaking informant.
G, 222.
I was residing in the year 1809 in the family of a retired naval officer and his
wife, two miles from a seaport town. The wife, whom I will call Mrs. R., was what is.
usually understood as a highly domesticated person ; to the last degree unimaginative ;
rarely opening a book, and indifferent to everything except household concerns and
the care of her children.
One afternoon, in the month of September, the conversation happened to turn
upon the subject of the often recorded appearances of dying persons to their friends
at the moment of death. [After some talk] Mrs. R and her husband looked at each
other and seemed as if hesitating about speaking. After a pause, Mrs. R. said : " If
you do not laugh at the very idea of the possible appearance of the dead, I should like.
€o tell you of something that happened to myself. When I was engaged to my
husband I was living with my brother, who was British Consul at Cadiz. [Captain
R, was a widower; his first wife, with whom he had not lived happily, having died
some eight months previously, leaving a young infant. Mrs. R. had never seen or
known the first wife, and was not in England at the time of her death.] After out
marriage we returned to England, and my husband's first care was to find the nurse
with whom his youngest child had been left. To his great grief, the woman had left
P., and had removed to some other part of England, taking the baby with her. Soon
after this vain search for the baby we went up to London, and took lodgings for a
time. The bedroom in these lodgings was entered from the sitting-room, and there
Was no other means of getting in or out. One night I could not go to sleep ; the fire
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 235
Sometimes, as in the narrative next to be cited, there is a record of
prolonged speech, but in such cases, especially when few or no actual
words are quoted, we can hardly be sure as to the degree of externali-
sation which the voice assumes. The apparition here seems to have at
least comprehended the percipient's inward situation, although it is not
clear that any prediction requiring supernormal insight was actually
made. I owe the narrative to the kindness of Mr. Morell Theobald,
who printed it first in Light for March 5th, 1892. It is written on an
old piece of paper (sent to me) and marked " For Mr. B.'s private
perusal." The history of the paper is as follows :—A Mr. C. (I must
not give the names), well known to Mr. Theobald, and holding a good
position in one of the Australian colonies, discovered it among the
private papers of his uncle, Mr. B., who died twelve years ago. The
apparition, as will be seen, occurred on October 24th, 1860, and the
account is endorsed November 9th by the percipient's father. Further
particulars, sent to Mr. B. by the percipient, are dated November 13th,
1860. The first account seems to have been sent by the percipient to
his father, and by the father to Mr. B.
The percipient has been identified, and confirms, as will be seen,
this early narrative. It is interesting to find a contemporaneous record
of a case of this now familiar type, written down at a time when less
attention had been directed to these messages from departing or
departed friends.
was burning brightly in the sitting-room, and the door was partly open. I had a
consciousness that there was someone in the next room. I saw the door gently pushed
back, and a beautiful lady came in, followed by a common looking woman, carrying
a child about a year old, dressed in a yellow pelisse. The lady came up to the side of
the bed, and said, pointing to the baby, ' This is Johnny ; you will remember
Johnny.' She smiled at me, and I was just going to answer, when the whole vision
was gone. I did not feel the least afraid, and I even turned to see where the
beautiful lady with the child and nurse had gone to. Then it suddenly struck me that
these were not real people, and I woke my husband and described what I had seen.
He said, ' I do not know what to think, but you have exactly described my first wife.'
The lost child's name was Johnnie. Well, we tried to think the incident had been
an ordinary dream, and some days elapsed, when we chanced to lose ourselves in
returning from Westminster Abbey in one of the low streets of that neighbourhood.
Suddenly I saw coming down the street the common-looking woman I had seen in
the vision, carrying the baby with the yellow pelisse. I said to my husband, ' That
is the woman I saw.' He warned me to be careful, and as the woman approached, he
said to her, 'That is a nice little boy you have got there.' ' Yes, sir,' she said, ' he
is a nice little boy. But I wish I could find them as owns him. His father is an
officer in the navy, and I doubt whether his ship is back yet.' We made further
inquiries, and we found the woman was really the one with whom my husband's wife's
relations had placed the baby. We took the baby home, and he grew up and went into
the navy when he was old enough, and it is for him that I am now in mourning."
This was the story as told by Mrs. R., and so great was the impression made upon my
mind that I am certain of remembering all the details, if not always the precise
words. But these words I do remember precisely, " This is Johnny ; you will remember
Johnny."
Alice BoDisaToy.
r 2
236 t v. Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
G. 217,
" On the evening of Wednesday, October 24th, 1860, having retired to bed
about nine o'clock, I had slept, I conclude, about two hours, making it then
about eleven o'clock p.m. I was awoke from my sleep by a hand touching
my forehead, and the well-known voice of Mrs. B. pronouncing my name, E.
I started up, and sat in bed, rubbed my eyes, and then saw Mrs. B. From
the head to the waist the figure was distinct, clear, and well-defined : but
from the waist downwards it was all misty and the lower part transparent.
She appeared to be dressed in black silk. Her countenance was grave and
rather sad, but not unhappy.
"The words she first uttered were: 'I have left dear John'; what
followed related entirely to myself, and she was permitted by a most
kind Providence to speak words of mercy, promise, and comfort, and
assurance that what I most wished would come to pass. She came to me
in an hour of bitter mental agony, and was sent as a messenger of mercy.
"I would have spoken more to her, but the form faded, and in answer
to an earnest appeal, a voice came to me which, though apparently hundreds
of miles away, was distinct and clear, saying, ' Only believe,' and she was
gone.
'' Throughout the interview I felt no fear, but an inward, heavenly
peace. It was new moon, but the room was as light as day ! "
Our next information consists of a statement of Mr. D.'s (so to term the
percipient, a gentleman of position), written in reply to Mr. B.'s questions,
November 13th, 1860 ; found (in Mr. B.'s handwriting) among Mr. B.'s
papers, and now summarised for us by Mr. C.
"Mr. D. had been asleep but could not say how long. Had not seen
Mrs. B. for several months. Can't recollect what dress she had on then.
Was not in bad health. Was alone in the house. The subject of his anxiety
was not known to Mrs. B. nor connected with her. The apparition seemed
to wait for questions, and when put they were answered. The subject of
the communication was one greatly influencing his thoughts and feelings,
and had been deeply agitating him before he went to bed. It was not a
religious matter ; but Scriptural language was used ; Mark xi. 23, 24 were
quoted ;—a passage well known to the writer, and often dwelt upon by him.
The window faces north. The night was wet and cloudy. The writer did
not put it down at the time, believing it too real ever to be forgotten. He
had not mentioned it to anyone but his father and Mrs. B. He saw the
notice of the death for the first time on Saturday in the Observer. Resided
about 10 miles from Gawler, which is 25 miles from Adelaide."
Mr. C. has forwarded to us a printed extract from the South Australian
Begister of October 25th, 1860, which includes a notice of the death of Mrs.
B. on October 24th, at Bank-street, Adelaide. The hour of the death is
fixed by Mr. C.'s own recollection, depending on his own fixed habits
at the time. He writes to Mr. Theobald, under date May 3rd, 1892 :—
"I was at that time a clerk in my uncle's office, which was at his house in
Bank-street, Adelaide ; but was staying just then at Glenelly. I left the
office at 4 p.m. on the 23rd after saying good-bye to Mrs. B. , leaving her in her
usual state of health. She was taken ill about 11 p.m., and asked frequently
for me, expressing a strong desire not to die before I arrived ; but when I
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knmvledge, &c. 237
got to the hoiise at the usual time, about 10 a.m., next morning, I was met
with the news that she had been dead about two hours."
The death, therefore, had taken place more than twelve hours before the
apparition was seen.
Mr. D. makes a slight mistake in his original account, in saying that it
was new moon, whereas the moon was then ten days old. But as it was a
cloudy night, and his window faced north, the light by which the figure was
seen was doubtless, as in so many of these cases, itself a part of the
apparition.
At Mr. Theobald's request Mr. C. communicated with Mr. D., who is
still living ; and we have therefore the opportunity of comparing a thirty
years' old recollection with the same person's contemporary statement. The
comparison shows that,—as I believe to be often the case,—the memory of
the supernormal incident had not grown, but dwindled.
Reminded in a general way, but without detail, of the occurrence, Mr.
D. writes (in a letter seen by me), April 21st, 1892 :—
"There was no conversation. She only said to me, 'E., I have loft
dear John.' I cannot remember whether it was wet or not ; but as to the
moon, it was not at all like that light. It was more like an electric light ;—
a subdued brilliancy. . . . 'How long did the spirit remain in
conversation with me ? ' Certainly not more than 5 minutes, if so
long. ... I sent the account to my father, who probably handed it to
Mrs. B."
Further reminded of his contemporary account, Mr. D. writes, May 1st,
1892 :—" I appear to have spoken, but have no distinct recollection of doing
so. What she did say was entirely personal." It related to the removal of
a painful misunderstanding with a friend. ' ' So far as I know she had never
seen, or even heard, of the friend alluded to." Mr. D. declines to give
further detail; but he still considers that the communication showed "a
plenary knowledge " of facts personal to himself. His hesitation of memory
seems to have been on the point whether the hope and consolation were
conveyed by spoken words, or in some directer fashion. The confidence
inspired by the message was, he tells us, justified by the result.
The supposed conversation in this case may have been more dream
like than the percipient supposed. It may have taken place, so to say,
in his own mind, without definite auditory externalisation.
We may, indeed, expect to find various transitional forms between
the visual phantom and the more strictly automatic message ;—between
the hallucinatory image of the departed friend and the words uttered
in trance, or given by writing or table-tilting, which claim to originate
in his intelligence. The manifestations are fundamentally of the same
order, but with this advantage on the part of the motor messages, that
they employ a physical faculty of the automatist's which can be easily
exercised for a long time continuously ; whereas the faculty needed
to see or hear a phantasmal figure or voice seems liable to rapid
exhaustion.
I will conclude this paper, as I concluded my " Defence of
23S Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Phantasms of the Dead," in Vol. VI., with a group of messages of
the motor type—messages given through automatic writing or other
varieties of automatic movement. Such messages have perplexities of
their own,—perplexities discussed in other papers, and to which I can
not here return. But with all the doubts as to their true origin these
written messages seem to me to form our most hopeful approach to the
exact knowledge which we desire. A single form of repeatable experi
ment,—even if that experiment succeed but once in a thousand times,
—is basis enough for generations of research.
I will give three cases, presenting different points of interest. In
the first we have a message containing a fact perhaps known to the de
ceased person from whom the message purported to come ; and certainly
not " consciously "—that is, supraliminally—known to the automatists
who received it. If, however, we assume the existence of any sub
liminal clairvoyance on the part of those living persons,—or even,
perhaps, of a degree of perspicacity exceeding that possessed by their
normal selves,—we might explain the message as having originated in
their own minds.
In the second case we have a series of automatic messages,—some
of them, perhaps, explicable on the lines just now suggested ; some of
them possibly to be explained by telepathy from living minds, some of
them, on the other hand, at least primd facie referable to the source in
the mind of a departed person, from which they professed to come.
Whether there are in reality so many different origins of a series of
messages given to one automatist, or whether any one explanation can
ba made to cover them all, is a matter to which we shall elsewhere have
to return.
The third case narrates the success of a direct experiment,—a test-
message planned before death and communicated after death, by a man
who held that the hope of an assurance of continued presence was worth
at least a resolute effort, whatever its result might be.
G. 218.
345, W. 34th-street, New York, October 3rd, 1888.
Dr. Richard Hodgson.
My Dear Sir,—Thinking that you may possibly be back from your
vacation, I send you with this the account of the finding of the note by Mrs.
B. and the letter to me from Dr. Knorr.
(Signed) W. D. Harden.
Savannah, Ga., September 16th, 1888.
Judge W. D. Harden,
345, W. 34th-street, New York.
Dear Friend,—This morning, when I paid a professional visit to Mrs.
B.'s sick son, she showed me a rough draught of the statement she intended
to send to you. Fearing further delay from her intended re-writing report, I
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, ,Scc. 239
begged her to let me have it. She consented, if I would explain to you the
circumstances of the shortcomings of that draught.
I think I need to add very little to Mrs. B.'s statements. You are
acquainted with the modus operandi of the communications with the sliding
rod, the rod and the alphabet board being at B.'s house, the same you saw at
Miss Maggie R.'s. In order to facilitate your description for Dr. H. I send
you a paper model of the rod and a printed alphabet (with other convenient
inscriptions), that is to be pasted near the two (right and left) edges, leaving a
space between of sufficient width for the points of the rod to point out the
desired letters.
I have to remark that a couple of days after the death of Miss Nina B.'s
fiance' (Mr. N. H.) I assisted her to get into communication with him. We
succeeded, Miss Nina turning out to be feebly mediumistic, and many com
munications were received from him.
This attracted Major B.'s attention. He tried then with me (the major
was then an Agnostic), and found that he also was mediumistic, and he got
communications from his father and his uncle that were so characteristic that
ho became convinced of the reality of spirit communion. So when the major
departed, last spring or summer, he was well acquainted with the modus
operandi of spirit communion ; and therefore the very day after his departure
we could receive a few words from him. Later on we received many messages
from him.
I think I was present at the seance when he stated that the note was
deposited somewhere, but could not tell where. It looks as if at that time
he had not yet discovered the whereabouts of the note, but continued hunting
for it, and at last discovered it.
I think I have touched upon every point that needed elucidation.
L. Kkoer, Savannah.
Judge Harden.
In compliance with your request I will state : After my honoured
husband Major Lucius B.'s departure from this life, I was in distress of
mind that none could understand but one surrounded by similar circum
stances. Of his business transactions I knew but little. After a week or
two of stunning agony, I aroused myself to look into our financial condition.
I was aware that he had in his keeping a note given by Judge H. W.
Hopkins to some several hundred which was due, and I searched all the
nooks and corners of his secretaire, manuscript, letters, memorandum-books,
ro w! several hundred letters ; but all for naught. For two months I spent
most of the time going over and over, but with the same result. I finally
asked him at a seance about the note.
Q. : " Have you deposited the note anywhere ? " A.: " I have."
Q. : " Where ? " No answer.
Finally I wrote to Judge H. (who had written me about it) : "I had as
well tell you the note has not been found. I cannot imagine where it is."
This was on Friday. The following Sunday, about four o'clock, my daughter
Nina, who possesses some singular power, proposed we try if we could not
get a communication from our loved ones. While she went to get a little
arrangement (a rod that worked on a board upon which the letters of the
alphabet were printed) I sat in my room alone, thinking, if it were possible
240 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
for Major B. to see the heart filled to overflowing with anguish, and added to
this the mind distressed by business cares, would he not communicate with
me and try to give some consolation or assistance.
But I did not express my thoughts to anyone. Nina returned, and after
a little conversation we put our hands on the rod and it promptly spelt
" Look in my long drawer and find Willie." I became excited, ran to the
bureau and pulled out the bottom drawer, turned the contents upon the
floor, and commenced to search. Under all the things was a vest ; in its
little breast pocket was the note.
Major B. was in the habit of calling the bottom drawer, where only his
under-garments were kept, " My long drawer," to designate it from several
small drawers set aside for his use. The vest was the only garment, other
than underwear, in the drawer. The vest was the one taken off him when
he first became ill. He was unconscious during the first day of his illness.
The vest was put in the drawer after or during his illness by my friend, I
think, who assisted in caring for him while sick.
The drawer had not been opened that we knew of after he left us until
the note was discovered. Although I had moved to another room, I gave
instructions that the bottom drawer was not to be disturbed.
As soon as the rod spelt " Look in my long drawer and find Willie " I
was perfectly electrified with the knowledge that Willie H.'s note was
in that drawer, although I never would have thought of looking in such a
place for a valuable paper.
Major B. and myself always spoke to and of Judge H. as " Willie," he
being a relation of mine and a favourite of Major B. from Willie's childhood.
I have just read the above to my daughter, and she says she will endorse
the statement as being correct.—I am, very respectfully,
(Signed) Mrs. E. F. B. B., widow of the
late Major Lucius C. B.
(Signed) N. H. B.
Savannah, Ga., September 16th, 1888.
The two signatures have been made in my presence, and I corroborate
many of the facts and circumstances mentioned in the above report. I am
now requested by the ladies to say that they do not wish their names to
appear in public. (Signed) Louis Knorr, M.D.
Savannah, October 27th, 1888.
Judge W. D. Harden,
345, W. 34th-street, New York.
My Dear Friend,—The delay in answering yours of the 9th inst. was
caused by Mrs. B., who sent me her answer only an hour ago, notwithstanding
my having reminded her a dozen times.
As you see from her statement, the exact date of the memorable seance
cannot be given by her. But some coincidental occurrences, as you'll
presently see, will make it the 13th or the 20th of May last. It is certain
that it was a Sunday, as Mrs. B. states, for I remember that, when I
returned from Wilmington Island that Sunday, Mrs. K. told me that Miss
Nina B. had been hero and had told her to inform me that something
important had happened that afternoon, and she had pleasant news to com
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 241
municate to me. I guessed at once what it referred to ; for they had all along
been so anxious to get some information about that note, and I was present
at the several previous seances, when ineffectual attempts had been made to
get that information.
When I was conferring with Mrs. B. for the purpose of getting at the date,
she at last remarked : "It was about a week or two after Miss Ida entered Dr.
Nunn's service." I remembered that circumstance well, and thinking Miss
Ida might help to get at the date, I called on her. She distinctly remembers
the circumstances and thinks it was the second Sunday after. She told me
that she commenced with Dr. N. on Monday, the 7th of May last ; then the
following Sunday was the 13th and the second Sunday the 20th of May. I
thought first that it would be possible to decide if it was the 13th or 20th
by consulting the tide-tables—making that Sunday the correct one on which
there was an afternoon flood tide. But on further consideration I see that
would not be perfectly reliable ; for although I generally selected such
Sundays for going down and coming up from the island on which there was a
favourable (flood) tide, still I did not do so invariably, because the prevailing
southerly winds in summer permitted sailing up to Thunderbolt even against
the tide. So there is no means to decide whether it was on the 13th or the
20th of May.
I see Mrs. B. does not answer No. 2 of Dr. H.'s questions (date of
sitting where question about the note was first asked) at all ; so I will do so as
far as I can. It was about a week after Major B.'s demise that the question
was put in my presence, and further at several subsequent seances at which I
was present ; but no exact dates could be given, further than that it
occurred, say, between the 6th of April and the 13th of May, on several
occasions in my presence, and in the presence of Mrs. B., Miss Nina B., and
sometimes of the youngest child (Lettie, eight or nine years).
In answer to No. 5 of Dr. H.'s questions (" Is Mrs. B. certain that neither
she nor her daughter put the vest away ? ") I have to state that I have the
repeated assurance of both the ladies that they feel sure that they did not
put the vest away, nor that they had the least suspicion that there could have
been so valuable a paper in that vest-pocket, or else they would have
hunted for the vest in that drawer, among others where clothing might
have been stowed away, and thus should have discovered what they hunted
for.
And as to question No. 4 (" Can any more definite statement be obtained
concerning the putting away of the vest ? ") I have to state that Mrs. B. and
Miss B. always thought that their cousin (Miss Mel Thomas), who had with
the most self-sacrificing devotion nursed the major during his sickness and had
the entire management of the sick room, had put it away. But on questioning
her she said she had no recollection of so trifling an occurrence.
In answer to question No. 6 ("Who were present ?") Mrs. B. says,
" Possibly one of the children." I have to explain this answer. She ought
to have answered, '' Possibly my youngest child, Lettie." For of her children,
besides Miss Nina, it is only Lettie who has something to do with these
seances—she being a far stronger medium than Mrs. B. or Miss B.—but at
the same time does not feel the least interest in the matter ; on the contrary,
hates to be called away from her dolls, puts her hands on the sliding-rod with
242 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
a great deal of grumbling, and is always very glad to get off, the sooner the
better.
Miss Nina reported to me that that Sunday she and her sister Lettie were
first holding communication with their father and received some pleasant and
convincing messages from their father ; then Lettie would not continue any
longer. It was then that Miss N. called her mother to take Lettie's place,
and the result was the getting of that message in regard to the note. So, you
sea, it may have been possible that Lettie had not left the room yet at the
time.
I have also to state that great precautions are taken against intruding
spirits that may personate (and on one occasion have done so, personating
Willie Morrison, the young lawyer staying in Colonel Lester's office) and
give us all kinds of lying messages. These precautions consist in a secret
signal and a secret pass-word—the two being necessary, since at one time
the intruders succeeded in getting hold of one ; but could not get hold of
the other too, and thus were foiled. To make doubly sure, the two signs
of recognition are changed frequently.—Yours truly,
Louis Knork.
October 27th, 1888.
Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—In answer to your questions I will say : 1. Major B. died
just at sunrise (Easter morning), first day of April, 1888. 2. I told all I know
about putting away the vest. 3. About three o'clock, Sunday, the first or
second week in May. Myself and daughter were the only ones present that I
remember—possibly one of the children. It happened just as I stated. To
me there is but one solution.—In great haste, very respectfully,
(Signed) E. F. B.
The next case is from a gentleman whose name cannot at present be
given in full.
G. 219.
Dr. Richard Hodgson. N.Y., November 1oth, 1891.
Dear Sir,—Recently I learned that you are the Secretary of the American
Branch of the Society for Psychical Research. Being interested in the sub
ject, I concluded to write to you, offering a statement of my own experience.
As so-ctilled spiritual manifestations are viewed unfavourably here, and as it
would be much to my detriment if my connection with the subject were to
become known, I ask that my n^rne be withheld from the public
For the past five years I have been a so-called writing medium. The
writing is involuntary on my part, and the thoughts expressed are not mine-
that is, as far as I know they are not mine.
Sometimes, instead of writing, off-hand pen work will be done, but it is not
of a very high order. In the writing the penmanship is generally very good,
and the thoughts expressed are generally good, and are sometimes valuable.
As you are undoubtedly familiar with this class of writing, I will not go into
details, but will leave you to inquire for such facts as you see fit.
I am anxious to find a satisfactory explanation of this, and I hope the
Society may yet bo able to furnish one.
As an indication of the trend of my thoughts, I will add that for the past
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 243
13 or 14 years I have been a student of the works of Herbert Spencer and
other great men of liberal views, and that I am an evolutionist, so called.
If you think my experience will be of use, please call for it. You may
send questions, or you may state in a general way the outline of what will be
of use.
N.Y., December 22nd, 1891.
Dr. Richard Hodgson.
Sir,— . . . Five years ago I was in Vermont on business, and while
there made a visit at the home of a relative. In the evening, for amusement,
a planchette was produced and operated. Pretty soon it was written that I
was a writing medium, and I was requested to try with a pencil. I took a
pencil in my hand and to my surprise I found I could write some in the
"automatic " manner. The writing was not very good and was accompanied
with more or less breaks and difficulties. It was written that practice would
make it much freer and better. This I found to be so. Persons in the room
asked as to dates on pieces of money and other similar tests, and the answers
were generally correct. After that I wrote some almost daily for some time
and soon became quite a ready writer in this manner.
On one occasion, not long after, a friend, of whose life I had known
nothing until about that time, proposed to ask some questions mentally and
see if the answers written would be correct. It was written that the spirit of
his wife was present. I inquired (mentally) for her name. In reply her
name was written out in full, correctly. I did not know her name : I knew that
he was a widower, and I knew no more of his wife or the matters inquired
about. My friend then asked (mentally) where she died and when 1 The
answers were correct. He then asked, " What was the cause of her death ? "
The answer, "Heart disease," was correct. He then asked for the circum
stances of her death. It was written that she died suddenly, at night, by
the side of him, in bed, and that the first thing ho knew of her death was
when he found her dead in the morning. This was correct. He asked for
her age, size, and for any particular mark by which she could be identified ?
The answer was correct as to age and size, and as to identification it was
written that she had a large scar near the knee, caused by a burn. This was
also correct.
Many other questions were asked and answered ; and whether he asked
the questions aloud, or mentally to himself, the answers were strictly correct
in almost every instance. There was no one but us two present.
On another occasion, about the same time, I made inquiry (I was alone)
touching a case I was then investigating. Briefly, the facts are these :—
A wealthy widow, Mrs. X., had died at her summer cottage with no one
present save her sister and a neighbour. She loft a will : by its terms this
sister was to receive several thousand dollars. Our client, Mrs. Y., was also
a legatee and the executrix of the will ; and as such it was her duty to collect
in all assets. Our client knew it to be a fact that the deceased had in cash
in her possession a short time before her death about $700. After Mrs. X.'s
death no money was found, and the sister who was with her claimed there
was no money ; that Mrs. X. had no money at the time of her death about
her, except some $15. Our client saw this sister and questioned her closely,
but to no purpose. I did not see or know this sister until some time after
the writing I am about to give. The question was, what had becomo of the
244 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
$700 ? Alone by myself I asked for the facts, which were written out much in
detail, but in substance the facts as written were these : That the deceased
had on her person at the time of her death about §600 ; that she had spent
the other 8100 ; that immediately after her death her sister, Mrs. Z., had
stolen the 8600 from her dead body ; that she had since spent some of it and
daposited the balance, some 8500, in a bank in the village of A. In tho
course of a few days we made inquiry, and learned that Mrs. Z. had made
the deposit there, but had recently drawn it out. We then cited her before
the Surrogate, and she swore that just before the death of Mrs. X. (the same
night she died) Mrs. X. gave her the money, 8520, to give to a nephew
as a present ; that there was only 8520 ; that she had just given it to the
nephew. We commenced a suit against her for tho money ($520) and
recovered it. The jury did not believe her defence and made her pay. I
have only stated so much of the case as seems to bear on the "automatic "
writing. The question is, where did I get the knowledge of the theft, the
amount and the deposit in the bank ? I may add that we afterwards learned
she did spend some money about that time that we always thought was some
she took in addition to the §520, and it would have made the sum stolen
about 8600.
About four and a half years ago an aunt of mine, Miss T., learned that
she had a cancer growing on her breast. She had it cut out, and soon was
apparently in very fair health. After a few months she began to fail very
much ; was about the house, but was very generally run down. Cancer did
not reappear. She was not said by her doctors to be in any immediate
danger ; but for some reason I made inquiry, and to my surprise it was
written that she was very badly off and that she would only live a very short
time. I inquired the cause, &c., and it was written that her system was
poisoned through and through with cancerous matter. I inquired as to when
she would die ? The answer was that it was impossible to tell just when, that
the most that could be said was that she would live about thirty days, judging
from a careful examination of her case made at that time. It was written that
she would certainly die, that she could not possibly get better or live much
longer than thirty days. Within the next week or so I inquired on several
occasions as to the matter, but the answers were always to the same effect and
positive. My aunt declined fast and died at the time set within a day, and I
think it was just 30 days. She was abed only 10 days or so. A post-mortem
showed she died from cancerous poisoning.
On many occasions I have made inquiry as to whether certain sick ones
would die or recover ; and if die, when ? Generally the answers proved very
correct.
About a year ago I was writing (for the spirit of deceased friend, Mr. A.
so claimed). After some writing of a friendly nature, it was written sub
stantially as follows :—"There is one thing that I wish you could do for me,
but I don't see how you can, and that is, stop my son " (name fully given)
"from drinking." I answered (by thought), "Why, I am surprised. Ho
doesn't drink, does he ? that is, not any to speak of, any way ? " A. : " Yes,
I am sorry to say he drinks a good deal too much." Q. : " Where does ho
do his drinking mostly ? " A. : " At the B. Hotel." I said I never heard
of his drinking. A. : " Well, you watch and inquire, and you will find out
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, cOc. 245
that he does." " I should be very glad to be of some service in the matter."
A. : "If I see a chance where you can I shall certainly call on you."
Upon investigation I found this was all true.
In May, 1887, while looking for authorities on an obscure point in a case
I was then preparing for trial, it was written in substance : "I know where
the authority is that you need." Q. : "Where?" A. : "In WeitdeU's
Reports, Vol. —, page —." Q. : " Who are you?" A.: "I am A. B."
The volume and page, as well as the name, were given in full ; the name
was that of an old lawyer that I had known well. The case cited was just
what I needed. I had never seen or heard of the case before to my best
knowledge. There are 26 volumes of Wendell's Reports, of about 700 pages
each.
I frequently find as I am examining indexes for judgment, debtors,
grantee's or grantor's, &3., in clerks' offices, and elsewhere, that there is
this same manifestation of intelligence in another form. Let mo explain :
Say I am searching an index under the head of " S," looking for the name
of Stearns, John J. By placing my hand or finger on the book, drawing it
along down over the names, with no thought of the work in hand, as soon
as my finger passes the name desired my finger will stop. My eyes must be
directed towards the book, but no matter how listless or absent-minded
I may be, still at such times my finger will stop at the name in question.
When contrasted with ordinary searching the unconscious intelligence that
seems to be behind this is very marked.
Once, being much in doubt, I asked, " What ails ? " (one of my sons)
" What shall I do for him ? " The answer wa3, " You had better not try to
do anything for him, but go and get Dr. T. He will know what to do." I
called Dr. T. He examined him and immediately gave an emetic. The
contents of the stomach showed that digestion had been stopped, or rather,
that the food had not digasted at all. The boy recovered rapidly. Dr. T. said
it was well I called him. The boy had been rather suddenly taken ill a few
hours after a hearty meal and soon after a severe fright or mental strain.
In a contested case over a certain clause or bequest in the will of C. we
had been defeated and were about to appeal to the Court of Appeals, our
highest court. It was my opinion, also my partner's, that we would win on
the appeal ; but upon inquiry it was written that we would be beaten, and
this opinion was expressed on several occasions, with very good reasons
assigned. We were advised not to appeal. We brought the appeal and were
defeated.
I have made many inquiries as to whether certain sick persons would
Tecover or die. The answers have been very correct, generally. Writing
touching the future is generally stated to be but an opinion, based on known
facts, and fallibility is freely admitted. When opinions are written the
Teasons assigned are very frequently not only new to me, or unthought of,
but are generally good reasons.
I have had a good deal of experience and made a good many tests. Those
I have given are a fair sample, I think, of the writing that proved to be true.
Many statements made wore false and many predictions made proved untrue ;
of these I have given no illustration, but could if necessary. I have done
-most of my writing when no one was present. Perhaps I should state that
24G Mr. F. W. H. Myen
it has been repeatedly written not to believe any writing or statement unless
my own good judgment approved of it. I have written a good deal touching
a future state, political and philosophical matters. Of all this I have not
spoken, as it doos not seem of much importance for our present purposes.
In passing I will say that much of it was apparently very good, and quita
reasonable.
December 28th,
Since writing the foregoing I have read your very able article [on
"Premonitions"] in the Arena for January, and I have also had an
experience that may be of interest.
On Christmas Eve there was, as you are probably aware, a railway accident
near Hastings, a little way out from New York City, in which 12 persons
were killed and another has since died from injuries received. This last-
mentioned person resided near me. The news of the injury to this person
reached me on Christmas Day. Telegrams in the afternoon were favourable,
and indicated a recovery.
I made inquiry as to the matter, and it was written in substance that the
person would not recover. I suggested that telegrams indicated a recovery.
The answer was : " Yes ; but we have made an examination, and are of
opinion that no recovery will take place."
Telegrams the second day were still more favourable, but my writing did
not change in opinion. The party died at nine o'clock on the evening of the
26th.
January 20th, 1892.
Dr. R. Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your inquiry for such facts as I may be able to
give, touching the experiences given you by my husband, as automatic
writer, I will state :—
Not long after he began to write, some five years ago, I saw a sheet of
paper upon which was written a full account of the robbing of the body of
the dead sister. I read the account carefully. My husband said that he had
written it automatically ; that he had asked for the facts and that was the
answer. The account of it, as written out for you by my husband, is the
same in substance as what I saw and read, except it is very much shortened.
I had the paper for some time, and, I think, until after the facts as given were
proven true ; but it was destroyed long ago. I attended the trial of the suit
brought to recover the money. His account given you I believe to be
correct.
The lady, Miss T., who had a cancer, was my aunt. The account of her
sickness and death are correctly given you by my husband, but I saw no
writing, although my husband told me at the time he had written something
concerning her, and he stated that it was written that she would die and told
when. I do not recall the time set, but I recollect her death occurred at the
time predicted.
I recollect the time referred to when our son was sick. I saw my
husband doing some writing on that occasion, and it was written to go and
get Dr. T. The account as written out for you by my husband is, as I
recollect it, true in every respect.
Concerning the accident of Christmas Eve, I remember that on Christmas
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 247
Day, after we heard of the accident, my husband did some writing. He said he
had inquired as to Mr. E.'s condition, &c., and that it was written that E.
would die, that he was internally and dangerously injured. On the next day
the answers that he received as to Mr. E.'s condition were to the same effect.
The telegrams received during the same time indicated that he would recover,
one reported him out of danger. E. died about nine on the night of
the 26th.
I have known my husband to write out correctly quite a good many
things that were out of the knowledge of ordinary persons, but of the
circumstances which he has given to you I do not now recall anything
further. [Mrs. W.]
January 29th, 1892.
Dr. Richard Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—I recollect the occasion referred to by Mr. W. I think it was
about five years ago. We were alone ; he spoke of the queer writing he was
doing. After some talk on the subject Mr. W. consented to try his skill. I
inquired what spirits were present, and Mr. W.'s hand wrote that my wife
was. I inquired for her name, and he wrote Adelia O. B., which was correct.
I also inquired where she died, and where and under what circumstances,
and I asked for a description of her. Mr. W. wrote out answers to all
the questions as I asked them. As I recall it, I asked most of the questions
by thinking. He wrote that she died of heart disease, and the date of her
death was correctly given, as was also her personal appearance. And it was
written that she died in bed with me ; that the first I knew of her death was
when I awoke in the morning. He also wrote that there was a largo scar
near the knee on the left leg.
I recollect that the answers were correct, although I don't recollect all the
words used, perhaps. I am very certain that Mr. W. did not know anything
about my wife. I had not lived within 20 miles of him, neither had I known
him until several years after the death of my wife. It puzzled me how he
was able to answer as he did, as I have no reason to think he had any know
ledge on the subject. I will add that the height, colour of eyes and hair and
the entire personal description given were exceedingly exact and correct.
Mr. W. also wrote on that occasion what purported to come from an old
friend of mine—that he went fishing with me to Lake Ontario, that I tipped
the boat over near shore and got him wet. This was true, but I hadn't
thought of it in a long time. Mr. W. never heard of it, I am confident, until
he wrote it out.
S. H. Britton.
As soon as Mr. Britton called my attention to the tipping over of the boat
I recalled that I wrote about it at the time, W.
New York, February 4th, 1892.
Dr. R. Hodgson.
[In a subsequent letter, Mr. W. adds :—] I began my automatic writing
with my left hand, and have ever since been able to write in that manner
with my left hand, but I am naturally right-handed, and I can write more
rapidly and readily with my right hand, although the ideas expressed, &?.,
248 Mr. F. IF. H. Myers.
are of as high an order, as far as I have observed, when written with one
hand as when written with the other.
In automatic work, when the mechanical ability to form letters is not
required, as, for instance, in running the hand down an index, I find my
left hand is fully the equal of my right. Perhaps I should state that I met
with a serious injury to my right hand many years ago, by which I lost the
two first fingers and greatly crippled my hand otherwise.
The reason that I did my first automatic writing with my left hand was
that the planchetto directed me to do so. I wrote a day or two with my
left hand and then I tried my right, and since that I have generally written
with my right. I can write some slowly in the natural manner with my left
hand, but have never done so but very little. The special point I wish to
call attention to is, that the ideas automatically writian are of as high an
order, written with one hand, as with the other.
I will conclude the present instalment of evidence with the third
motor message already mentioned;—a case singularly interesting, as
recording what purports to be the successful accomplishment of an experi-
m^nt whose partial failure in one carefully watched instance we have
already recorded. (Vol. VI., p. 657.) It is an experiment which every
one may make;—which everyone ought to make ;—for, small as may be
the chances of success, a few score of distinct successes would establish
a presumption of man's survival which the common-sense of mankind
would refuse to explain away. If accepted, the incident shows a
continued perception on the part of the decedent of the efforts made by
friends to communicate with him.
G. 220.
The first account, says Dr. Hodgson, which I received of the following
case was given in an article by Herman Snow in the Religio-Philosophical
Journal for January 31st, 1891. Mr. Snow wrote as follows :—
The most perfect spirit identity test which I find upon my records is as
follows : It occurred in the town of Kingston, Mass., about twenty-five years
ago, and was related to me by the Unitarian minister of the place in whose
parish the parties resided. All the facts were well known to him and per
sonally vouched for to me. There lived in that town a young man of marked
spirituality, who was also a poet of a high order of inspiration. A volume
entitled Cousin Benja's Poems, written by him, was held in high esteem
by many Spiritualists of the earlier times. The home of this young man was
with a sister, between whom and himself existed ties of affinity and affection
of unusual strength and permanency. But the brother was a confirmed
invalid. Consumption had laid its irresistible hand upon him and was slowly
but surely loosening the immortal from the mortal of his being. Knowing
this, and having a firm faith in the spirit's power to return, but being at the
same time, as an advanced spiritual thinker, aware of the difficulties in the way
of a perfect identification, he told his sister that he would try to arrange
matters so that she would have satisfactory proof of his return to her when at
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 249
length he should be fairly over to the other side of life. And this was the
way it was done : He took a piece of soft brick and carved it into a slender
oblong form, and taking it to his sister broke it in two pieces, giving one to
her with the injunction to take good care of it ; the other, he said, he would
himself take care of. He also especially enjoined upon his sister that after
his departure she should give him an early opportunity of communicating
with her to the end that the proposed test might be consummated. When at
length the time came, it was communicated to her that if she would go into
the carefully arranged room formerly occupied by him, and look upon a cer
tain shelf in the corner now designated, she would find a large sea-shell ; and
in the recess of that shell she would find the mate to the piece of brick he
had given her. This was done, and thus was the test made complete. For,
on trial, the two pieces were found exactly to fit into each other, thus proving
beyond reasonable doubt that this discovery of the piece of brick was made
by the brother, the only one who had known of its hiding place.
Belvidere, N.J. Herman Snow.
The Unitarian minister, the Rev. J. H. Phipp, who informed Mr. Snow
of the case, died in 1871. We learnt the address of the decedent's sister,
Mrs. William A. Finney, from the Rev. Courtland Y. de Normandie, who is
now pastor of a church in Kingston, Massachusetts.
Mr. Snow has also sent us a transcript from his note-book of his
first article on the subject, written at San Francisco, January, 1881,
and published, he thinks, in 1881, in the Religio-Philosophical Journal.
The later article is merely a repetition of this earlier account. We
have therefore two independent memories,—one at third hand from
Mr. Snow, recorded 15 years after the event, one at first hand from
Mrs. Finney, recorded 25 years after the event,—closely coinciding
•with each other.
The following letters on the subject have been received from Mrs.
Finney :—
Rockland, Mass., April 19th, 1891.
Mr. Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—Some weeks ago I received from you a few lines asking me to
give you an account of the communication received from Cousin Benja in
spirit-life, some twenty-five years ago.
For weeks and months before my brother left the form we conversed
freely on the subject of spirit communion and such matters, and one morning
he requested me to bring him a small piece of brick, also pen and ink ; he
then made two marks on one side and one on the other with the ink, then
breaking the brick in two, gave me one piece, telling me at the time to take
care of it, and some day he would hide the other piece away where no one
but himself would know, and after leaving the form, if possible, would return
in some way and tell me where it was. I could then compare them together,
and it would be a test that he could return and communicate, and my mind
Could not have any influence over it, as I did not know where he put it.
After he left the form our anxiety was very great to hear and learn all we
could of communicating with spirits, and for months we got nothing satis
factory,
3
250 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
We then commenced sitting at the table at home (mother and myself),
which we did for some little time ; at last it commenced tipping, and by
calling the alphabet spelled out where we could find the piece of brick that
he put away,—that was the way we got the test. To us that was truth that
spirits can and do communicate with us, and nothing but the influence and
power of Benja could tell us that test.—Truly yours,
Mrs. Wm. A. Finney.
Rockland, Mass.
Rockland, May 3rd, 1891.
Mr. R. Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—Yours of April 21st received, and I will add a few more lines
as to statement of brother Benja's communication.
By calling the alphabet we spelled out :—
"You will find that piece of brick in the cabinet under the tomahawk.—
"Benja."
I went to that room and took the key, unlocked the cabinet, which had
not been touched by anyone after he locked it and put away the key. There
I found that piece of brick just as it had spelled out, and it corresponded
with the piece I had retained, fitting on exactly where he broke it off the
piece I had. It was wrapped in a bit of paper and tucked into a shell, and
placed in the bottom of the cabinet exactly under the tomahawk, as was
spelled out by the alphabet.
This is truth, and no power but Benja's could tell that.
Mother is not living ; I am the only one of the family that is living.—
Yours respectfully,
Mrs. Wm. A. Finney.
Rockland, Mass.
Rockland, May lltft, 1891.
Mr. R. Hodgson.
Dear Sir,—Yours of 6th received. I will continue to say, in answer to
your questions, that the piece of brick was entirely concealed in the shell, so
that it could not be seen from outside of cabinet. It was wrapped in a piece
of paper stuck together with mucilage and tucked into the end of the shell,
then a piece of paper gummed over that, so that nothing was visible from the
shell.
The shell was on the lower shelf of the cabinet, and only the top of the
shell was visible outside the cabinet.
One more little incident I will mention, for to me it is as valuable as the
other. He wrote me a letter (about the time he gave me the piece of brick)
and sealed it, saying at the time it was not to be answered, but the contents
of the letter to be told. I got that in the same way I did the other, by
calling the alphabet and the table tipping. It was these words :—
"Julia! do right and be happy,—Benja."
That was correct. Just the contents of my letter. I have no particular
objection as to giving my name, for I have stated nothing but the truth,
. At my home in Kingston I have that little shell with the piece of brick,
And if you would like them I will send them to you. Will place the brick
On Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge, &c. 25X
into the shell as it was when I found it. Of course, the paper that was
around it then is worn out years ago. The cabinet is disposed of.
Julia A. Finney,
Mrs. Finney further writes :—
Rockland, June 26th, 1891.
I send you by express a box containing the letter and shell with the
piece of brick. I have placed one piece in the shell just as it was when
I found it, so you can see how nicely it was concealed in the shell. The
papers that were around it then are worn out. You cm retain them if you
like, as I do not care for them now.
To me it is a positive truth that he did communicate to us, and our minds
could have nothing to do with it.
J. A. Finney.
Rockland, July 19th, 1891.
. . . The shell was placed on the same shelf with the tomahawk,
and no other shells on that shelf. It was placed with the open side
down, and the tomahawk stood directly over it. I cannot say why he
did not tell us to look inside of the shell. We started to look as soon as he
told us. It was in the cabinet under the tomahawk, We did not wait for
any more to be said.
I am not intimately acquainted with many public people. As to my
integrity, will refer you to Rev. C. Y. de Normandie, of Kingston.
J. A. Finney.
The shell is a large Triton, about ten inche3 long. The piece of brick
was wrapped in folds of soft paper and tucked deeply into the recess.
Another piece of paper was then gummed around the sides of the shell in the
interior, so as absolutely to prevent the piece of brick from falling out. When
I received the shell from Mrs. Finney and looked into the interior and shook
the shell violently, there was nothing to indicate that the shell contained
anything but the piece of gummed paper.
The piece of brick in the shell weighs one and a half ounces, and the
piece of brick retained by Mrs. Finney weighs about two and a quarter
ounces. The shell with the piece of brick and paper wrapping weighs about
eleven and a half ounces.
Mrs. Finney also forwarded me the letter written by her brother. The
shell and the pieces of brick and the letter are now all in my possession.
R. Hodoson.
We have a letter (in original) from the Rev. C. Y. de Normandie, of
Kingston, Canada, to Mrs. Finney. "I expressed then," he says, speaking
of a former note to Dr. Hodgson which accidentally went astray, "that to
the best knowledge I had of you and to my firm belief your word could be
implicitly relied on. I felt confident that you would state a matter as you
understood it, as you regarded it, without reference to the consequences ; and
that you would not be any more likely to be misled and deceived about a
matter of that kind than others similarly situated. "
The experiment which was in this cass successful is one which
might be tried by everybody. And I may close the present instalment
of evidence with the remark that it is to experiment with automatic
s 2
252 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
writing, crystal-vision, ifec, rather than to spontaneous apparitions, that
we must look for any real information as to the degree in which departed
spirits retain their knowledge of the things of earth.
Once more I must express my astonishment and regret that
amongst some tens—perhaps hundreds—of thousands of persons,
scattered over many countries, who already believe that the road of
communication between the two worlds is open, there should be so very
few who can or will make any serious effort to obtain fresh evidence of
so important a fact. But, quite apart from the Spiritist camp, there
are now many inquirers who know that automatic writing is a real fact
in nature, and who are willing to discuss with an open mind the origin
of any message which may thus be given. Let these set themselves to
the task, and the result of organised and intelligent effort will soon,
as I believe, be made plain.
For aught that we can tell, there may be collaborators elsewhere
who only await our appeal. Why should not every death-bed be made
the starting-point of a long experiment 1 And why should not every
friend who sails forth Ktovav vjrep 'HpaicXc'os—into the unknown sea—.
endeavour to send us news from that bourne from which few
travellers, perhaps, have as yet made any adequate or systematic effort
to return ?
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 253
It
MR. DAVEY'S IMITATIONS BY CONJURING OF PHENOMENA
SOMETIMES ATTRIBUTED TO SPIRIT AGENCY.
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
In the Introduction which I wrote (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IV.,
pp. 381-404) for the late Mr. Davey's "Experimental Investigation,"
conducted for the purpose of ascertaining " the possibilities of mal-
observation and lapse of memory from a practical point of view,"
I pointed out that " to explain the tricks would in itself be of little
advantage to the investigator of the 'physical phenomena' of mediums";
that other methods than those employed by Mr. Davey may be (and
unquestionably are) practised ; and in any case that explanations of the
methods in use would hardly be likely to convince persons who have
testified from personal experience to the genuineness of the "psycho-
graphy " of well-known " slate-writing " mediums that such methods
were used for the production of the phenomena which they witnessed.
"They will scarcely," I said, "be likely to remember the occurrence of
events which they perhaps never observed at all, or observed only
partially and erroneously ; which, whether correctly or incorrectly
observed, they have afterwards continually misdescribed or completely
forgotten ; and which, in many cases, would be distinctly excluded by
the acceptance of their testimony as it stands." The notes appended
to the detailed reports quoted in the article referred to would, we
thought, sufficiently show to the reader the several kinds of mistakes
made by intelligent witnesses in recording their impressions of per- •
formances like Mr. Davey's, and would enable the student—not
necessarily to discover in every case the exact modus operandi of the
tricks, for this appeared to us to be of trivial importance, but—to
appreciate the unreliability of human testimony under circumstances
common to such performances. It was, indeed, my own personal opinion
that on the whole it was advisable that the methods of Mr. Davey
should be descrilaed in detail, as far as possible, though in many cases
it would be difficult to explain verbally exactly what occurred so that
the reader could enter fully into the situation. Mr. Davey, however,
was strongly opposed to the revelation, and for various reasons. His
chief objections, I believe, were that other methods than the ones
which he employed had probably been used by pseudo-mediums, that
new methods would doubtless be invented, that the description of his
Mr. R. Hodgson.
methods would interfere greatly with his projected plan of giving nume
rous additional sittings and obtaining further reports (in connection
with which he proposed to explain his methods fully), and that many of
his sitters would be annoyed at finding precisely how they had been
deceived. Mr. Davey's death has removed the only argument—I may
now freely say—which had special cogency in my own case, viz., his
purpose to give another series of sittings, all of which should be
attended by a person thoroughly familiar with his methods, and
cognisant beforehand (so far as such cognisance was possible) of the
precise things which he intended to do ; this person was to write an
account both of what was intended and what he witnessed ; Mr. Davey
was to supplement this account by his own statements ; and these
accounts were to be compared with the reports of the sitter in each
case. The object, of course, in this projected later series was to em
phasise still more forcibly the unreliability of the testimony so widely
accepted, among Spiritualists, as adequate to establish the genuineness
of the manifestations in question.
It appears, however, that the accounts of Mr. Davey's sittings pub
lished in Vol. IV. of our Proceedings are in themselves more than
enough to demonstrate the affirmed unreliability of such testimony, and
to justify the position originally put forward by Mrs. Sidgwick that
the possibilities of mal-observation and lapse of memory must be abso
lutely excluded before the testimony to " slate-writing " and similar
performances can be taken into further serious consideration. This is
clearly shown by the communication which formed the immediate
cause of this article, viz., the letter of Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace
printed in the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research for
March, 1891, in which he stated that Mr. Davey's performances "are
claimed to be all trick, and unless all can be so explained many of us
will be confirmed in our belief that Mr. Davey was really a medium as
well as a conjurer." At the close of my Introduction to the reports of
Mr. Davey's sittings, I asked the " experienced Spiritualist " to " point
out exactly where the difference lies between ' Mr. Davey's perform
ances ' and mediumistic phenomena." Mr. Wallace has accepted this
challenge in the name of " many of us " ;—there is no more illustrious
name than his upon the roll of adherents to a belief in Spiritualism ;
and his reply is substantially a confession that he cannot distinguish
between Mr. Davey's performances and ordinary " mediumistic "
phenomena. But, strangely enough, as it appears to Mrs. Sidgwick
and myself, and others who were familiar with Mr. Davey's devices,
Mr. Wallace's conclusion seems to be, not that the analogous pheno
mena which have been reported about " mediums " were due to trickery,
but that Mr. Davey's performances were "mediumistic"! The issue
has changed. We are no longer asked to prove that this or that
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, iScc. 255
medium is a " trickster " ;—we are asked to prove that Mr. Davey
was not a medium ! Could any better evidence be offered that Mr.
Davey's performances and those of certain professional mediums belong
to the same class 1
Now, I am not at all sure how far my explanations of Mr. Davey's
devices will make clear to Mr. Wallace and the many others who agree
with him, that every apparently " phenomenal " occurrence at his
sittings can be accounted for by ordinary means. It is impossible to
reproduce all the details of the sittings, so that the reader may have a
faithful picture of the seemingly insignificant incidents that made the
writing upon a slate on or under the table, or the turning over of one
or two slates, or the substitution of one slate for another, or the secreting
and carrying out of the room (to deal with at leisure) of one of the
sitter's own slates, appear to the instructed and watchful observer so
transparently easy. I should have much greater confidence did I know
that these doubters of Mr. Davey's dexterity were familiarising them
selves with such books as Professor Hoffmann's Modern Magic and
More Magic, Mr. John W. Truesdell's Spiritualism, Bottom Facts, and
a recent book published in America by Farrington and Co. (St. Paul,
Minn.), entitled Revelations of a Sjoirit-Medium. Above all, I recom
mend these doubters to experiment for themselves. It may be difiicult
for them to obtain the assistance of a person like Mr. Davey, but they
can at least study from books on conjuring the details of many per
formances commonly exhibited on the public stage, and by accompanying
their uninitiated friends to the entertainment, and listening to their
accounts of the tricks afterwards, they will be, I venture to think,
considerably helped towards a proper appreciation of the misdescriptions
usually given of such performances, and will perhaps begin to see the
absurdity of attributing " mediumship " to Maskelyne, or Lynn, or
Davey. In this direction at least the account of Mr. Davey's methods
may prove serviceable.
I shall begin by giving a brief statement of the chief methods used
by Mr. Davey and then illustrate his actual practice by describing in
detail some of the most important occurrences at sittings where I was
present myself. I shall then state what occurred, according to Mr.
Davey, at the sittings particularly noted by Mr. Wallace as remarkable,
and finally give the explanation of other incidents which without such
special reference might still remain incomprehensible. Had I foreseen
my departure for America, and my continued stay here, and therefore
the impossibility of my conducting such a later series of experiments
as I have mentioned above, I should doubtless have reduced to written
record at the time the details of the sittings which I myself witnessed,
as well as Mr. Davey's statements concerning the other sittings. As it
is, I must depend upon my recollections, assisted by the contemporary
25S Mr. R. Hodgson.
notes published, in connection with the reports, in Vol. IV. of the
Proceedings. With the regular methods employed by Mr. Davey I was,
of course, very familiar, as he frequently practised them in my presence,
and consulted me about variations of them. Further, I talked them
over in detail with Mrs. Sidgwick and Professor Hoffmann, and was
present at five out of the sixteen sittings reported, and saw them used.
I questioned Mr. Davey at the time about all the incidents at the
sittings where I was not present, and was perfectly satisfied with his
explanations, I may add that I have seen similar methods used by
" mediums " in America, as will be seen later from my account of a
visit to the notorious medium Slade.
Referring to the reports, it will be noticed that the manifestations
most frequent at Mr. Davey's sittings were:—(1) Writing on the
upper surface of a single slate held against the underside of the table ;
(2) Writing on the upper surface of the under slate when two slates
were placed together above the table ; (3) Writing in Mr. Davey's locked
slate. I shall describe the normal method used in each case ; I say
" normal," because differences between the sitters as to their attention,
&c, together with other incidental circumstances, produced, in almost
every instance, certain slight variations from the prescribed steps.
(1) The slate having been cleaned and placed near the edge of the
table on top, with a piece of pencil or chalk upon it, Mr. Davey
takes a thimble-pencil from a hip-pocket, and slips it on the end of a
finger, say the third, of the right hand. A thimble-pencil is a
tailor's thimble with a small piece of pencil (or chalk) fastened to it.
He then draws the slate over the edge of the table, with the thumb of
his right hand on top of the slate, the finger with pencil being tucked
into his palm, brings the first and second fingers up to the under
surface of the slate, and slowly slides the slate under the table,
requesting the sitter on his right to hold the slate with him, and U>
keep it pressed closely up to the under surface of the table. The sitter
does so. The slate is out of sight, but the thumbs of the holders are
visible. The sitter, in response to Mr. Davey's suggestion, asks a
question. Mr. Davey writes the answer noiselessly with his thimble-
pencil on the under surface of the slate, without the knowledge of
the sitter. After an interval of waiting, he proceeds to withdraw the
slate, ostensibly to see if anything has been written. He places it on
the table, and by that time the sitter has let go of the slate. Nothing
is found written (on the upper surface of the slate, where the sitter
knows that the writing is to appear if it comes at all, and where
alone inspection is made). Mr. Davey lifts the piece of pencil off,
rubs the upper surface again with a cloth, then seizes the slate with
the fingers uppermost, and the thumb underneath, raises the slate
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 257
from the table and places it once more under the table, turning the
slate over as it is going under the table, and just before pressing it
against the under surface of the table, drops upon it again a piece of
pencil from the table. The answer to the question is now on the
upper surface of the slate, pressed against the table. He then reminds
the sitter to hold the slate also, and asks that the question be re
peated. After a short interval, the sound of writing is heard, caused
by Mr. Davey writing (for it is possible to write either with or with
out noise), on the now under surface of the slate, the answer to a
question not yet asked, and which Mr. Davey may ask himself after
the next insertion of the slate under the table. The slate is then
withdrawn as before, the answer on the upper surface is read, that
surface is cleaned by Mr. Davey ; the slate is again placed under the
table and turned as before in the process. And so on.
(2) Writing on the interior surface of one of two slates held to
gether above the table.
One slate has already been written upon, during or previous to the
sitting, and this lies, writing downward, upon the table. Mr. Davey
gives two other similar slates to the sitter to examine and clean, asks
him to place pencil (or chalk) on one of them on the table, cover it
with the other, and place his hands upon them. Mr. Davey also
places his hands upon them. After an interval of waiting Mr. Davey
suggests looking to see if there is writing. The sitter removes his
hands, Mr. Davey takes off the top slate and places it with seeming
carelessness on one side close to where the third slate is lying, and after
removing the pencil, say, from the other slate, and perhaps rubbing
it again with the duster, which afterwards is perhaps thrown on the
slate just removed, and placing some pieces of chalk again on the
slate, he takes the third slate (writing already on the under surface)
and places it on top. The sitter and Mr. Davey place their hands on
the slates as before. After another interval of waiting Mr. Davey
proposes to hold the slates in the air, or resting against the sitter's
shoulder. The sitter raises his hands from the slates. Mr. Davey
takes the two slates together, the fingers of his right hand above,
the thumb below, and in lifting them from the table turns them both
over together. This movement is probably completed by the time the
sitter also takes hold of the slates. After a short time, a sound as of
writing is heard, and when this is finished, the sitter lifts the top
slate, and finds the upper surface of the lower slate covered with
writing. But what produces the sound as of writing ? Sometimes the
finger-nail of Mr. Davey on the under surface of the bottom slate, some
times a movement of his knee to which is attached a piece of common
slate-pencil, the ends resting in two small loops of rubber sewn on to
his trousers. He chafes this piece of pencil against another piece
258 Mr. R. Hodgson.
attached to a fragment of wood from which project two fine steel points,
by means of which he easily secures it to the pendent rim or the leg of
the table. This was Mr. Davey's variation, I believe, on the idea
suggested by the wedge-shaped clamp illustrated by Mr. Truesdell.
(Spiritualism, Bottom Facts, p. 199.)
(3) Writing in the locked slate.
Mr. Davey has two locked slates precisely alike, i.e., as precisely
alike as skilled workmanship could make them. In some cases a com
munication was prepared beforehand, and when a reply was not de
manded to some specific question, a single substitution was all that
was required. When a question was asked in the locked slate, two
substitutions were needed. Thus, a question is written by the sitter
in locked slate A. Mr. Davey substitutes locked slate B for A, opens
A and answers the question (usually taking it out of the room for the
purpose), and later on re-substitutes it for B.
" Well, but," I hear some readers say, " I want to know exactly
how and when he makes these substitutions, and besides, how and when
does he cover the side of one of the sitter's own slates with writing 1 "
It is just these questions that are difficult to answer satisfactorily
without introducing the whole mise en scene, so to speak, of the sitting.
I think, however, that a tolerably fair conception may be formed by
considering several of the reports and describing, as far as I can now
reproduce them, the immediately connected details. But before doing
so I shall describe Mr. Davey's usual method of substituting one of
his locked slates for the other. This might almost be called his favourite
device.
The first step was to engage the attention of the sitter on some
other object. This was usually done by starting an experiment with
another single slate.or pair of slates. While the sitter was occupied in
cleaning a slate, or examining pieces of pencil or chalk, or inspecting
the writing that so " mysteriously " appeared on the ordinary slate, Mr.
Davey was manipulating his " duster," a cloth which he used for dry
ing the slates. This, after perhaps drying a slate with it, he would
throw, apparently carelessly, over the locked slate on the table, and so
as to hide this slate completely. Then, under cover, occasionally, of
the use of his handkerchief, he would slip the other locked slate from
his coat pocket or from beneath his waistcoat, slide it softly upon the
edge of the table, and, bending over the table somewhat, with .
possibly one arm resting far forward on the table, so as partly to
obstruct the view of the moving slate, push the slate softly forward till
it was near the first slate concealed by the " duster." He would then
sometimes boldly remove the duster with the first slate inside, and,
below the surface of the table, slip the slate beneath his waistcoat,
afterwards replacing the duster on the table. Sometimes after the second
Mr. Davey'a Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 259
slate had been placed upon the table, he allowed the first slate, covered
by the duster, to remain on the table also for a considerable interval,
owing to the possible danger of removing it without detection. On
one occasion it remained there, I think, for more than a quarter of an
hour, until at least the conclusion of the sitting, when he gathered up
his various articles into his bag. While the sitter was wondering at
the long communication in the second locked slate, thefirst locked slate,
under the duster, was lying within his reach on the table before him.
Let us now consider the above explanations in detail with special
reference to Sitting II. (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IV., pp. 426-435.) For
convenience of reference I here reproduce portions of the accounts :—
Mrs. Y.'s Account.
A piece of chalk was placed on one of our slates, and the slate was held
tightly up against the underside of the table leaf by one of Mr. Davey's hands
and one of my daughter's. Their thumbs were on top of the table, and their
hands spread underneath on the underside of the slate. I held Mr. Davey's
other hand, and we all joined hands around the table. I watched the two
hands holding the slate without a moment's intermission, and I am confident
that neither Mr. Davey's hand nor my daughter's moved in the least during
the whole time. Two or three questions were asked without any sign of
response. Then Mr. Davey asked rather emphatically, looking hard at the
corner of the table under which they were holding the slate, " Will you do
anything for us 1 " After this question had been repeated three or four
times, a scratching noise was heard, and on drawing out the slate a distinct
" Yes " was found written on it, the chalk being found stationary at the point
where the writing ceased. As my eyes wore fixed uninterruptedly on both
my daughter's hand and on Mr. Davey's also, and as I certainly had fast
hold of his other hand all the time, I feel confident he did not write this word
in any ordinary way. This same result was obtained two or three times.
Miss Y.'s Account.
Mr. Hodgson brought us a little pasteboard box, in which were a number
of small pieces of chalk of different colours. I chose two of these and placed
them on one of our slates. We had all previously written either our names or
our initials on that side of the slate. Mr. Davey slipped the slate under the
edge of the table, I holding on to it all the time, and we held it flat under
the table with our thumbs above the table. I held the slate very firmly
against the table, and I am sure I did not relax my hold once. After waiting
some time and asking various questions, we heard, or seemed to hear, the
chalk moving on the slate. We drew the slate out, and on it was written
" Yes," which was an answer to our last question. We again put the slate
under the table, and, in order to be sure that nothing had been written on
it,' I half slipped it out again and saw that it was perfectly clean. After
some more waiting, my father asked when we were to sail for America. The
chalk again squeaked, and on drawing the slate out we found " the 18th "
written very indistinctly. This happened not to be the date, which was the
15th.
260 Mr. R. Hodgson.
There is no mention of the previous withdrawals in either of these
accounts. Mr. Y., however, did remember them, and recorded them
in his report.
At the first and second examination nothing was on the slate, and it was
washed afresh, and soon the word "Yes" was found scrawled on the upper
side of the slate as an answer to some indifferent question.
Mr. Davey did not venture to write the word at once, and did not
produce his writings continuously. The first part of a sitting was
often a time of tedious waiting, so that the vigilance of the sitters
might, become relaxed, and so that they might be accustomed to regard
the withdrawals of the slate as having no special meaning, if, indeed,
it should ever occur to a sitter that they were suspicious. After one of
the early withdrawals, Mr. Davey, having previously written the word
yes on the under surface of the slate, turned the slate over in the act
of replacing it, and, of course, during this interval Miss Y.'s hand was
not holding the slate. She had relinquished her hold when the slate
was placed on the table. Mr. Davey then asked his own question, to
which the yes was a proper reply. Similarly after one of the later
withdrawals, Mr. Davey, having written "the 18th" on the under
surface as a reply to a question previously asked by Mr. Y., and having
turned the slate over in the act of replacing it, requested Mr. Y. to
repeat his question. " On what day do we sail for America ? "
Thereupon the writing was apparently produced, and the answer
exhibited proved to be relevant, though the date given was not correct.
It would weary the reader were I to point out all the discrepancies
between the reports which I quote, such as that Mrs. Y. speaks of " a
piece of chalk," and Miss Y. speaks of "two" pieces as having been placed
on the slate. It is important, however, to emphasise here that although
the slate was several times withdrawn from under the table, and Miss
Y. on these occasions relinquished her hold of it completely, yet there
is not the slightest indication in the above accounts that Miss Y.'s hold
was ever relaxed at all, or that there was a single withdrawal when
nothing was found written upon the slate. These are instances of the
complete omission, from the record, of circumstances without which
the trick would have been impossible. They were due to lapse of
memory rather than to mal-observation, since at the times of the
withdrawals the sitters were doubtless aware of them. The turnings of
the slate as Mr. Davey replaced it under the table were probably not
observed ; that is to say, it was not observed that his method of placing
the slate under the table brought the unexamined surface to the top.
After this explanation I think that the reader will find no difficulty
in seeing exactly how the similar " phenomena " recounted in the other
reports, in connection with a single slate held under the table, were pro
duced. He must supply, of course, the " withdrawals " and the accom
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, iSsc. 261
panying circumstances, since these are completely omitted from nearly
all the records, and where the withdrawals are mentioned there seems
to have been no conception, in the mind of the witness, of their
significance.
Proceeding to the cases of writing appearing between two slates
above the table, I quote the three different accounts from Sitting II.
Mrs. Y.'s Account.
After a short rest, Mr. Davey asked us to wash two of our own slates and
put them together, with pieces of chalk of different colours between, and all
of us to reach across the table and hold them all together. This we did, and
then Mr. Davey asked my husband to choose mentally three colours he
wished used in writing. After all holding the slates closely pressed together
for a few minutes, we placed them on the table, and Mr. Davey and I placed
our hands on them while the rest joined hands. In a few moments the same
sort of electric shock seemed to pass through Mr. Davey, and his hand and
arm which were on the slates quivered nervously, and immediately a scratch
ing noise was heard. He then asked me to lift one slate off the other, which
I did, and found one side covered with writing in three colours, the very
three my husband had mentally chosen. I am perfectly confident that my
hand was not removed from the slates for one single instant, and that I never
lost sight of them for a moment.
Miss Y.'s Account.
After this experiment, we put aside Mr. Davey's slate and took two of our
own. We cleaned them, and placed on one a number of little pieces of
coloured chalk. The second slate was put on the first one, and my mother
itnd Mr. Davey held it above the table. Mr. Davey asked my father to think
of tltree colours. We joined hands once more, and in a little while we heard
writing between the slates. When we took one off, on the under one was
written :—
In red, " We are very glad to be able to give you this."
In while, " We can do more yet."
In green, " Good-bye."
My father had thought of red, white, and blue. We could not be sure by
the night light whether the " good-bye " was written in green or blue. But
there was a piece of chalk on the slate that looked much more blue than the
piece with which the "good-bye" was written.
Mr. Y.'s Account.
We next placed small pencils, in six colours, between two of my newly-
bought slates, marked by ourselves with our names written in pencil, without
removing them from the top of the table, and the hands of some of the party
were laid upon them for some minutes, after which they were held up in the
hands of two persons. I had been asked to choose the colours in which the
writing should be made. I mentally chose red, white, and blue, but did not
tell my choice. After holding Mr. Davey's hand for some minutes, with my
mind strongly fixed on these colours, the slates were opened, and we found,
in the order I had mentally selected : —
262 Mr. R. Hodgson,
(Red) " We are glad to be able to give you this,"
(White) " We can do more yet."
(Blue) "Good-bye."
The slates used were the three ordinary school slates which Mr. Y.
had purchased on the way to the sitting, which was held at my rooms
at Furnival's Inn. The experiment preceding this was with Mr.
Davey's locked slate. 'While the sitters were still pondering over the
writing that had appeared in the locked slate, Mr. Davey retired to
an adjoining room, taking with him, under his waistcoat, one of Mr.
Y.'s slates. He there wrote upon the slate in red, white, and blue,
thinking that if Mr. Y. were asked to choose mentally three colours,
he would be more likely to select these three than any others. (I
believe that Mr. Davey usually had red, green, pink, blue, yellow, and
white chalks at his sittings.) Returning to the room and the table he
surreptitiously placed this slate on the table again, writing downward,
pushed Mr. Y.'s remaining two slates, which we may call thefirst and
second, forward, and requested that these should be cleaned thoroughly.
After the cleaning, Mr. Davey placed some coloured pieces of chalk
upon the first slate and covered it with the second. According to my
remembrance, Mr. Davey then lifted the two slates a little from the
table and asked all the sitters to join in holding them. After a short
interval he suggested looking to see if there was any writing, and
the slates were lowered to the table, the sitters removed their hands,
and Mr. Davey took off the top slate (the second), showing the
under surface of it where there was no writing, and placing it on
the table close to the third slate. Moving the chalks slightly, to
be assured that there was no writing, he " replaced "—not the
second slate which he had just removed, but—the third slate, which
already had the writing on the under surface. He then placed his
hands upon the slates, and so also did one or more of the sitters. After
another short interval, Mr. Davey suggested holding them up in the air ;
the sitters lifted their hands, Mr. Davey seized the slates, raised themr
turned them over together and requested, I believe, Mrs. Y. to join in
holding them. At this stage I think that the sitters all stood up and
that Mr. Davey then called upon Mr. Y. to think of three, colours to be
used in the writing. Very shortly the sound as of writing was heard.
When the sound ceased, Mr. Davey let go of the slates, and the writing
was found on the upper surface of the lower slate.
It is probable that my remembrance of the scene even where it is
clear and distinct is wrong in some points, and on others even my
remembrance is not clear. I cannot recall very clearly, for example, at
what point Mr. Y. was asked to think of three colours. He may have
been asked earlier to choose mentally three colours, and the request may
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 263
have been repeated later. But these points are unimportant for my
present purpose, which is to show the reader how the trick was done.
I witnessed Mr. Davey abstract the slate ; I witnessed him in the act
of writing the message in the adjoining room ; I witnessed him return
the slate to the table, and afterwards substitute it for the other slate,
and I witnessed him turn both slates over together as he raised them in
the air. These were the important points for me to watch, as I knew
beforehand.
Now for the omissions in the reports. In the first place, Mr. Y. and
Miss Y. refer nowhere in their whole reports to the fact of Mr. Davey's
leaving the room. Mrs. Y. refers to it, but supplements her reference
by stating that " the slates were all the time in full view on the table
with the rest of us who remained behind " ! If she could but have
seen Mr Davey's hurry and excitement in the other room while he
was preparing the message on one of her own slates !
In the second place, there is not the slightest indication, in any one
of the three reports, that the slates were separated during the experi
ment after they had once been placed together, yet they were not only
separated, but the separation was used for the purpose of substituting
a third slate for one of the two cleaned for the experiment. (All three
slates, I believe, had been marked at the beginning of the sitting, but
no special markings were made for this particular experiment.)
We may now turn to the other cases where this particular trick
was performed, and notice certain variations in the details. In Sitting
I., the reader will easily be able now to supply the omission made by
the two recorders ; the top slate was removed and the third slate sub
stituted in a manner similar to that described above. But in this case
Mr. Davey wrote on the slate before the sitting began. Mr. R. took
three slates to the sitting, and he states that there " could not
possibly " have been " any tampering " with them, " as during the
whole seance they never for one moment left the room." This last
assertion is true, but Mr. R. gives 7.30 p.m. as the time of his going
to Mr. Davey's house, and the sitting did not begin till 8.30 p.m. In
the meantime Mr. Davey had taken one of Mr. R.'s slates and Mr.
R.'s box of chalks also into another room, and written upon the slate,
and rubbed away the corners of some of the fragments of chalk and
pencil, and brought them back to the room. What occasion was there
for the intending sitters to watch their slates then ? The sitting had
not begun, and besides, Mr. Davey had, let us say, given them some
interesting curios or remarkable photographs to examine while he ex
cused himself for a few moments. Later on, the sitting begins. Mr.
Davey takes the parcel of slates : " Ah ! these are your slates, Mr. R.
Very glad you've brought your own slates. If anything comes,
you see, it's so much more satisfactory. We'll try first if we can get
2G4 Mr. R. Hodgson.
any writing on one of your own single slates. Better clean it
thoroughly," at the same time holding up the top slate for Mr. R.
to take, and of course he takes it. The slate upon which Mr. Davey
has written is the lower one of the remaining two, the writing being
on the under surface ; and these two slates remain on the table in full
view while the experiments with the single slate are in progress. This
important lower slate, however, becomes completely forgotten, tempo
rarily at least, when the sitters are preparing the other two slates for
the second form of experiment, at which time, had there been any
need, Mr. Davey might have written upon it again. Hence Mr.
Davey's note to this sitting that " although Mr. R.'s slates did
not leave the room during the seance, one of them was left unguarded
on the table on one occasion for about sixty seconds." As a matter
of fact, however, as Mr. Davey assured me, he wrote upon this slate
before the sitting began.
The next instance of this " manifestation " occurs in Sitting IV.,
held in my rooms ; Mr. Padshah had taken three new slates, but had
left them in my rooms while he made a call upon some friends. In the
meanwhile Mr. Davey arrived, and used the opportunity to write on
one of Mr. Padshah's slates, which he then placed at the bottom.
When we were ready for the sitting, Mr. Padshah having returned,
Mr. Davey began by passing round his locked slate for inspection,
cleaning, ifec. He then took the top one of Mr. Padshah's slates for
trials with a single slate held under the table, leaving the two other
slates in the middle of the table. Later on, in the midst of experi
ments with the single slate, he lifted the top slate of these two, placed
some coloured chalks on the lower one, and placed the other slate again
on top. The other important movements I may give in the words of
my friend, Mr. J. Russell, who saw them. He had not been initiated
into the modus operandi, but he did know definitely and positively
that Mr. Davey's performances were not " mediumistic," and he was
acquainted with the object of Mr. Davey's investigations. Mr. Russell
is naturally an exceptionally keen observer, and he noticed and re
corded the important trick-movements, of which there is no mention in
the reports of the other two uninitiated witnesses. I therefore add his
testimony to my own. Mr. Russell writes in his report :—
In the meantime, Mr. Davey had once more examined the two slates
where the coloured chalks were, but finding nothing, had placed them side by
side, and carelessly, as if in a fit of absent-mindedness, had taken the chalks
from the slate which had been at the bottom, and placed them on the other.
He had then put them together as before, except that the original position of
the slates was reversed, the old bottom one being now at the top, and the old
top one at the bottom. Presently, asking Mr. Padshah if in a former sitting
with Eglinton the medium had not got some writing on'Jus shoulder, he took
up the two slates and placed them on Mr. Padshah's shoulder, but in less
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 265
than a minute took them off, reversing them as he did so, and replaced them
on the table. The old bottom slate was now once more at the bottom, and
the old top one at the top, but each slate had been reversed, so that the two
sides which had originally been turned to the table were now turned up. In
a few minutes Mr. Davey had a sort of convulsion, Mr. Hodgson and Mr.
Hughes said they heard sounds like writing, the slates were opened, and
there, on the lower one, was a message, half in green, half in red (nearly
the colours chosen by Mr. Padshah and my wife), expressing a hope that we
should be satisfied with writing given thus, under such excellent test con
ditions.
Now, from the point of view of the psychologist analysing the value
of human testimony, I regard Mr. Padshah's reports as in several
respects the most instructive of the whole series. Mr. Padshah's mind
is pre-eminently clear and sincere, and his report, written immediately
after the sitting, is an excellent expression of the effects produced upon
him. We can see, so to speak, a piece of wonderful testimony (as
regards this particular manifestation) in the act ofmaking, but not made.
Describing the commencement of the sitting, Mr. Padshah wrote :—
There was full light on every corner of the table ; two of my (?) slates,
one washed by myself, the other by Mr. Davey, were put very nearly in the
centre with a number of small chalk-pieces between them of different colours.
Later on, in discussing this manifestation, Mr. Padshah wrote :—
I confess I do not remember, even after such a brief lapse of time, whether
I had examined the two slates not washed by me, and found them unwritten.
I imagine I must have, for otherwise it would be very stupid.
Here, in the first place, we see that while Mr. Padshah's memory told
him at the commencement of his report that one of these two slates had
been washed by himself, bis memory told him, apparently, a short time
later that neither of these slates had been washed by himself. This, at
least, seems to be the fair inference from his words. But the next
point, concerning the examination of the slates, is more important.
He imagines, ho says, that he must have examined the slates, " for
otherwise it would be very stupid." In the case of ninety-nine out
of a hundred bondfide witnesses the statement in their report would
not* have taken this form. Their imagination that they must have
examined the slates would have usurped the place of their failing
remembrance, and they would have written, with perfect sincerity,
" I examined the two slates and found them perfectly clean."
The same general method was employed in Sittings V., VI., VII.,
IX., XII., and XV., the slates being Mr. Davey's, and the communica
tions having been prepared beforehand, and I think that the reader
will have no difficulty now in supplying the omissions which vitiate the
records. The choice of colours and the transcription of passages from
books chosen by the sitters, and the writing in foreign languages, I
shall consider later.
X
2G6 Mr. R. Hodgson.
In Sitting VIII. the word Yes was found on the upper surface of the
lower of two of the sitters' slates held together. This word was written
on the top of one of the sitter's slates while the sitter was glancing over
the books on the shelves for the purpose of choosing one for the locked-
slate experiment. I saw Mr. Davey write it on the slate, as the slate
lay on the middle of the table, and then turn the slate over. This slate
afterwards reached the required position by the regular method. After
this experiment came that of the locked slate, which was also a success,
and while the sittsr was wondering over the locked-slate message, Mr.
Davey took one of his slates into another room and covered one side of
it with writing. This interval the sitter speaks of parenthetically as a
" momentary absence." After Mr. Davey's return the two-slate experi
ment was conducted in the regular way, and was indeed completed; but
Mr. Davey got nervous, shuffled the slates out of position again, and
hardly knew himself what had become of the writing. In trying to
make up for this false move he slipped again, the sitter noticed a
shuffle of the slates, seized them, and discovered the writing " before
its time."
As regards the " two-slate " incident which occurred in Sitting
XVI., Mr. Davey informed me that before the sitting began, and while
exchanging greetings in the ordinary manner, he undid the parcel con
taining the slates brought by Miss Symons, took out one of her slates,
substituted for it a new slate brought by himself, and tied up the
parcel again,—all this with his back to the parcel so that his move
ments might be concealed from Mrs. Sidgwick and Miss Symons. He
then left the room, ostensibly to fetch his own slates, ,fec, from another
room, and while absent, wrote on the slate belonging to Miss Symons.
Miss Symons herself carried the parcel, now containing Mr. Davey's
slate, to the seance table without, of course, noticing anything wrong.
Her slate, with writing on it, was placed among Mr. Davey's own
slates, and, when the time came, in the course of the two-slate experi
ment, was re-substituted openly, as described in detail by Mrs. Sidgwick
in the following account, which was written the day after the experi
ment, and before she knew how and when the trick was done. (The
footnotes are a later addition.)
Miss Symons had brought two common slates and a locked one. Mr.
Davey had also slates with him of various shapes ; one of them with round
corners as Miss Symons's had, and some with square corners. Miss Symons's
two slatesi were held together on the table and under the table by her and
Mr. Davey. Then one of Mr. Davey's square-cornered slates was substi
tuted for one of them, then again removed, and the two round-cornered ones2
i This is, of course, a mistake. It was the two slates out of the parcel, but one
of these was really Mr. Davey's.
» Really Miss Symons's this time.
Mr. Davey'a Imitations by Conjuring, d-c. 2G7
again held, on the ground that though it might be easier to get writing on
Mr. Davey'a slate, it would be more satisfactory to get it on Miss Symons's.
We waited a considerable time. Mr. Davey asked me to draw the curtains
between the two rooms. Then we sat as before, the two slates on one
another on the table, and our hands on them. The sound of writing was
heard, and presently on looking between the two slates, one of them was
found to be written on all over one side. I cannot remember every detail
of what occurred, but the impression produced on my mind most distinctly
was, that one of Miss Symons's slates had been written on all over one side,
and that there had been no possible opportunity for Mr. Davey to have
done this.
We now come to the experiments with the locked slate. In addition
to the two similar locked slates of small size which I have already
mentioned, Mr. Davey had some other similar locked slates of large size,
of the Faber make. One of these is represented in Proceedings, Vol.
IV., pp. 46G, 467. My impression is that he had three similar slates of
the large pattern. He most frequently, however, used the smaller size,
described by Mr. H. W. S. in Sitting XI., as " composed of two
ordinary pieces of slate, about six by four inches, mounted in ebony
covers hinged on one side with two strong plated hinges, and closed in
front, beyond the question of a doubt, with a Chatwood's patent lock."
Let us call these two locked slates A and B, and suppose that A is the
first locked slate exhibited. I shall now describe in detail the locked
slate incident in Sitting II. Mrs. Y.'s account of this is as follows :—
He gave me a locked slate of his own, which I thoroughly washed and
locked myself, and put the key in my own pocket. We then joined hands,
and Mr. Davey and my daughter placed one hand each on the slate as it was
lying on top of the table. Different questions were asked, and we waited
soma time, but no response came. Mr. Davey seemed to me very much
exhausted, and I urged him to desist from any further efforts. But he
seemed loth to do this, and said he would rest a little while, and would then,
perhaps, be able to go on. After a short time of conversation, the slates all
the while being in full view and carefully watched by me, we again tried it,
under the same conditions as before, only that this time Mr. Davey requested
ns each to take a book at random from the shelves in the room, and mentally
think of two numbers representing a page and a line, and he would see if he
could reproduce it. This also failed of any result, and Mr. Davey said he
feared he was too tired to produce anything, as he had been very much
exhausted by a long and very successful seance the night before. We again
begged him to desist, but after a short rest ... he insisted on another
trial. The slates still remained all the time in full view on the table. Mr.
Davey asked my daughter to choose another book, which she did at random,
he having his back to her and standing at some distance while she did it.
This book was at once tied up and sealed by one of the party, Mr. Davey
never touching it from first to last. I then held it in my lap, while we
joined hands as before, and Mr. Davey and my daughter each put one hand
on the slate. Still nothing came. Then we changed positions, and I placed
2G8 Mr. R. Hodgson.
my hand on the slate instead of my daughter, giving her the book to hold.
During this change she kept her hand on the slate until I had placed
mine beside it, and the book was awaiting her on the opposite side of
the table, my husband all the while holding Mr. Davey's other hand.' I
am confident that Mr. Davey could not possibly have manipulated the slate
during this change, for it was in full sight all the while, and our hands
were on it, and the book was tied and sealed on the opposite side of tho
table. A few minutes after this readjustment Mr. Davey seemed to have
a sort of electric shock pass through him, the perspiration started out in
great drops on his forehead, and the hand that was touching mine quivered
as with a nervous spasm. At once we heard the pencil in the slate moving,
and in a few moments Mr. Davey asked me to unlock tho slate. My
daughter took tho key out of her pocket and handed it across the table
to me, and I unlocked the slate, and found it covered on both the inner sides
with writing. When read, this writing proved to be a sort of essay or exhorta
tion on tho subject of psychical research, with quotations from the book
chosen intermingled throughout. I forgot to say that Mr. Davey had asked
us all to choose in our minds two numbers under ten to represent a page and
a line of the book, but had finally concentrated his thought on what my hus
band was thinking. In the writing there were quotations from every page
we had any of us thought of, but not always the line ; but in the caso of my
husband the line was correct, but not the page. l1e had thought of page 3,
line 8. The line was quoted from page 3, and Mr. Davey said this confusion
between 8 and 3 frequently occurred, because of the similarity of the
numbers. This test seemed to me perfect. The slate was under my own eye
on top of the table the whole time, and either my daughter's hand or my own
was placed firmly upon it without the intermission of even a second. More
over, we closed and opened it ourselves.
This sitting was held in my rooms in the evening. In the morning
Mr. Davey came to my rooms, and re-arranged some of my books. He^
placed a series of greyish-white books (chiefly Cambridge University-
Calendars) on a shelf easy of access, and in the middle of them he put
a volume of selections from Mrs. Browning's poems after first copying
some phrases from it. This book had a blue binding with gilt lettering
on the back. The communication afterwards found by the sitter em
bodying these phrases from the book, I saw Mr. Davey then and there
in the morning write in the locked slate. At the first trial of this
experiment, the volume of Mrs. Browning was not chosen. No result,
therefore, was obtained. At the next trial Miss Y. chose the required
hook. Now, Mrs. Y. states that Mr. Davey had his back to her
daughter and was "standing at some distance while she did it." Mr. Y.
also says, " My daughter, leaving him at the table, replaced on the
shelves the book she had first taken down, and took at random a copy
of Mrs. Browning's poems." Miss Y.'s own account of this part of
the incident is also positive :—
We sat as before around the table, discussing the failure of the experi
ment. Finally Mr. Davey started up and said, "We must try it with one
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, i&c. 2GD
book alone. Will you choose one, Miss 1 " I supposed that he asked me
to do it because my seat was nearest to the bookcase. I got up and went to
the bookcase. Mr. Davey stood by the table with his back to me. That
latter fact I feel as if I remember most distinctly. I mention it to show
that I chose my book at random and was not influenced in my choice by him.
As a matter of fact Mr. Davey escorted Miss Y. up to the book
case and led her, as it were, up to the very shelf where the required
book, in bright contrast to its dingy neighbours, was " forcing " itself
to be chosen. " Choose a book, any book, take any book at random,"—
with a wave of the hand in front of the special shelf, and Miss Y., quite
naturally, reached out her hand and took the book that " fixed " her
gaze. I gave in my previous notes what I thought was the probable
explanation of the agreement of all the witnesses in the erroneous
statement that Miss Y. went alone to the bookcase to choose her book.
After the writing had been produced in the locked slate, Mr. Y. asked
Miss Y. if she had gone alone to the bookcase, and she replied that she
had, and that Mr. Davey had remained by the table with his back
towards her. I conjectured also that Miss Y.'s lapse of memory was an
instance of transposition, that she remembered correctly Mr. Davey's
actions, but connected them wrongly with her second choice of a book
instead of with her first.
By the " forcing " of this book the first step in the trick was per
formed. The next step was to substitute locked slate B for A, But
the sitters were very careful, as the reader may notice from the
accounts of their actions when Mr. Davey suggested that Miss Y.
should change places with her mother. Miss Y. kept her hand upon
the slate as she walked round the table, and correctly says that she
did not relax her hold of the slate till her mother had her hand upon
it. Nevertheless the time came when Mr. Davey did substitute B for
A. But there is no mention whatever, in Mrs. Y.'s report, of the cir
cumstances which enabled Mr. Davey to perform the substitution.
* Nor is there any mention whatever of these circumstances in Mr. Y.'s
report. They are mentioned, however, in the report of Miss Y.
Mr. Davey asked us each to think of two numbers as before. Finally he
asked us to write them down on a slate. I wrote mine on one of our own
.ulates so that he could not possibly see what I had written, and I placed it
on the table away from Mr. Davey, and leaned my elbow on it. I think the
others did the same with the other slates. To my remembrance, some of us
watehed the locked slate all the time while we were writing.
Miss Y.'s remembrance, about which she was apparently not sure,
is not correct. At this juncture all the sitters forgot the locked slate
mid left it unguarded on the table. My impression is that all the
sitters left the table, Mr. Davey having so candidly remarked that they
must not let him see the numbers they wrote, and not let him even see>
270 Mr. R. Hodgson.
the movements of the end of the pencil. I then saw Mr. Davey with
the help of his cluster (see p. 258) substitute locked slate B for A.
I may mention that Mr. Davey gave a plausible reason for desiring the
sitters to write their numbers down, viz., that a previous sitter had
forgotten the numbers which he had finally chosen, and therefore could
not tell whether the passages quoted in the writing were according to
the chosen numbers or not.
In Sittings I., III., V., VIII., IX., and XV. the modus operandi
will now be obvious. In each case the communication was prepared
beforehand, and an opportunity was given for the substitution of B
for A.
In connection with Sitting IV. it is noteworthy that Mr. Padshah,
who was not perfectly satisfied that he had taken due precautions in
examining the two single slates, and in seeing that all the surfaces were
clean, did become absolutely convinced that the locked-slate writing, if
not produced by chemical means, was " undoubtedly genuine." Mr.
Davey, as he had done for Sitting II., came to my rooms in the morn
ing, and placed in a " forcing " position, with the neutrally tinted
numbers of the periodical Mind in its neighbourhood, Bastian's volume
on Tlie Brain as an Organ of Mind, a bright red book of the Interna
tional Scientific Series. Mr. Davey wrote on the locked slate in my
presence the communication afterwards found there by Mr. Padshah,
including the words, " The Brain an Organ of Mind." When asked to
choose a book Mr. Padshah finally chose (mentally) the periodical Mind,
after having thought both of The Brain as an Organ of Mind and of
International Law. Mr. Padshah's conclusion about this experiment
was that it is "evident that Mr. Davey must have' minutely studied the
time it takes for complete precipitation ; or that the whole precipitation
takes place simultaneously ; or that the phenomenon is undoubtedly
genuine. The theory of writing without a chemical and then bam
boozling me would be really contemptible." As I pointed out in my
contemporary notes to this sitting, Mr. Padshah did nevertheless lose
perception of the slate A for a short time, and during this interval Mr.
Davey substituted B.
In Sitting VI. a double substitution was made. The sitter wrote a
question in A. Mr. Davey substituted B, opened A, read the question
and answered it, and re-substituted it again. Mr. Davey's usual method
in these cases was to take A out of the room for the purpose of reading
and answering the question. Later on, the substitution was made again
for another experiment, B having been prepared beforehand, and the
book to be chosen by the sitter placed in a " forcing " position.
Sitting X. was with a Japanese gentleman, and the locked slate used
was of the large size. The first locked-slate experiment involved
merely a simple substitution. This was all that was involved in the
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 271
second locked-slate experiment also. The Japanese part of the
message was easily enough obtained. Mr. Davey had met the sitter
before and had obtained some information about him. He then went
to the "Japanese Village" on exhibition in London, and for a con
sideration procured the services of an interpreter in translating and
writing in Japanese on the locked slate the communication which Mr.
Davey provided in English. The sitter says : " Once more I locked the
double-slate . . . and put the key in my pocket and even sealed it
myself." Mr. Davey suggested the sealing, but he substituted the
second locked slate for the first before the sealing took place. (Com
pare Zollner's experiment with Slade. Mrs. Sidgwick supposes that
Slade substituted for two slates put together by Zollner two other slates
upon which he—Slade—had just written. Journal S.P.R., December,
1886, p. 481. This case of Mr. Davey's is exactly parallel.)
In Sitting XI. there was a double substitution in experiment [a].
In experiment [c] there was a single substitution. Experiment [d] is
described by the sitter as follows :—
Lastly, as requested by Mr. Davey, I took a coin from my pocket with
out looking at it, placed it in an envelope and sealed it up. I am certain
that neither Mr. Davey nor myself knew anything about the coin. I then
placed it in the book-slate together with a piece of pencil, closed it as
previously and deposited it on the table ; and having placed my hands with
those of Mr. Davey on the upper surface of the slate, waited a short time.
I then unlocked the slate as requested, and to my intense amazement I found
the date of the coin written, by the side of the envelope containing it.
The seal and envelope (which I have now) remained intact.
I do not recall with certainty what the coin was. Let us suppose it
was a shilling. Mr. Davey beforehand wrote the date of a shilling of his
own in locked-slate A, placed this shilling in an envelope and sealed it
up, and placed this envelope also in locked-slate A, which at the begin
ning of the experiment he had concealed about his person. He then
requested the sitter to take a shilling from his pocket without looking
at it, to place it in an envelope and seal it up, place it in the locked-
slate (B), ifec. The sitting was at Mr. Davey's house, and Mr. Davey
.provided the envelope, from the same packet, of course, as the one
already containing Mr. Davey's shilling in locked-slate A. The sitter
was requested not to look at his coin, ostensibly, I believe, on the
ground of precluding thought-transference, but really so that the sitter
might not know the difference between his own coin and Mr. Davey's.
It is now plain that all the dexterity required in this experiment was
a simple substitution.
In the locked-slate experiment described in Sitting XII. there was
a double substitution. In the first locked-slate experiment in Sitting
272 Mr. R. Hodgson.
XIII. there was a double substitution. For the second there was a
single substitution.
Mrs. Sidgwick has furnished the following account of the locked-
slate experiment in Sitting XV. :—
We then [after the writing of the word Melbourne] again sat at the
table, Miss Symons next to Mr. Davey. She now took charge of the locked
slate, which at this period was examined and was blank. [Then follows the
account of obtaining the message with the Spanish sentence in it.] It was
not easy to read, and while we were engaged in deciphering it Mr. Davey
was still gasping and suffering apparently from the effects of tho effort. He
wandered restlessly about the room, with convulsive movements, &c. After
a time ho seemed better, and we determined to try another experiment.
A book was chosen out of Mr. Podmore's bookshelf and laid on the table
under our hands, and Miss Symons and Mr. Davey sat next each other, this
time holding the locked slate.
The locked slate was unguarded while we were poring over the first long
message, and there was plenty of time and opportunity then either to
substitute another similar one or to write the message. Moreover, the book
chosen was the one wished for by Mr.' Davey. He made various objections
and suggestions till I perceived that for some reason he wanted that one and
chose it. I tried at first to choose a small book because I wanted the trick
to succeed, and fancied it would be done by holding the book on the slate
under the table and opening it there. Whether I should have been conscious
of acting on anything but my unaided impulse [in choosing the large book]
if 1 had not wanted to help Mr. Davey [by choosing a small one] I do not
know.
I shall now describe the method of producing writing on the interior
surfaces of common slates screwed and corded together and the knots
of the cords sealed. For accounts of this experiment see Sittings XIII.
and XIV. I quote here the account given in Sitting XIII.
I now took the two new slates which I had purchased, and which had
never for a moment passed out of my possession, I even taking the pre
caution of sitting on them during the foregoing proceedings. I placed a
piece of red crayon therein, and screwed them down top and bottom so
tightly that by no possibility could even the thin edge of a penknife be
introduced. I then corded the slates twice across and across, sealing them in
two places with red and blue wax (for, of course, any attempt to remove the
seals by heat would cause the- colours to fuse, and thus immediately detect
the artifice), stamping them with my own private signet. Mr. Davey placed
the slates under the table, and requested me to name some word I would
Uke written. I stipulated for "April." After a few minutes, during which I
most carefully watched him, ho returned them, and after 10 minutes' work,
so tightly were they closed, I found exactly what I had desired.
. After perusal of above, considering that the expression, "I
found exactly what I desired," might be liable to a possible misconstruction,
I think it better to add that I state in the most unequivocal, explicit, and
Mr. Davey a Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 273 .
emphatic manner, that after Mr. Davey had returned me my two slates,
secured as above described, and which I most carefully and minutely ex
amined to detect any signs of tampering, finding, however, my seals intact
and the cording and screws in exactly the same condition as when they left
my possession a few moments before, and that the word "April," which I
had asked for, was legibly written with the crayon, on one of the inside
surfaces. Whether the top or bottom I did not observe. The apparently
impossible having thus been solved as I hereby testify.
The sitter might also have sealed the screw-heads without preventing
the performance of the trick.i Mr. Davey takes the slates thus prepared
and places them in a horizontal position between his right leg and the
adjoining leg of the table. He holds them in that position by the pres
sure of his right leg. He then takes from his hip pocket a wedge with
a fairly sharp edge for insertion, but with the other edges smoothened
so as to avoid indenting the frames of the slates. I think that the
wedge that Mr. Davey used was made of brass, and was somewhat
more than two inches long and about half an inch wide. He forces
this wedge between the frames of the two slates at a point farthest from
the screws. Thus if the screws are on the top and bottom of the slates,
he forces the wedge in at the middle of one of the sides. There is
enough elasticity in the frames and the cords to prevent any injury to
the frames or the cords or the seals. An opening a quarter of an inch
wide is easily produced in this way. Leaving the wedge in position he
takes from the hip of his trousers, where it has been fixed by the
insertion of its ends in two small rubber loops, a piece of an umbrella
rod, say seven or eight inches long, in the end of which is fastened a
piece of pencil or chalk. This he inserts through the aperture produced
\ In this connection the following extract from an account of a seance by Mr. T.
O. Roberts, whom Mr. Davey characterises as " without exception the keenest witness
I have ever met," may be of interest. The- seance took place on April 23rd, 1887,
later than any recorded in Mr. Davey's paper in Proceeding!, Part IV. Mr. Roberts
was, I believe, aware that Mr. Davey was a conjurer.
Mr. Roberts "purchased two common slates with wooden frames (Sin. x Din.) and
rounded corners." He continues :—
I cleaned theslates myself and placed a small piece of grey chalk . . . between
the slates, which I then placed together, noting which were the inner surfaces by a
printed heading at the top of each ; I next drilled six holes through the frames, one at
each end, and two at either side, into which I drove six screws, these tightly binding
the two slates together, placed my seal on the head of each screw, then bound the
•slates with thick cord and sealed the ends after tying the final knot.
When I handed the slates, thus prepared, to Mr. Davey, he told me that the test
was too severe, and that he did not think that it would be possible to produce the
writing under such circumstances, but expressed his willingness to try.
Operations commenced by his placing the slates under the flap or leaf of the table
near the corner, supported by the fingers of his right hand while his thumb rested on
the table ; with my right hand I held his left above the tableand with my left I assisted
in supporting the weight of the slates in the same manner as adopted by him.
274 Mr. R. Hodgson.
by the wedge, and writes the words required. He withdraws the rod
and the wedge, replaces them in their private receptacles, and brings
the slate above the table.
The writing or drawing produced under an inverted tumbler placed
on a slate on top of the table is described in several accounts. (Sittings
I., II., and XVI.) The following is Mrs. Y.'s account of this experi
ment in Sitting II. :—
He placed one of our slates on three little china salt-cellars that lifted it
up about an inch from the table. Upon the middle of this ho placed several
pieces of different coloured chalks, and covered them with a tumbler. Then
he told my husband to form a mental picture of some figure he wished to
have drawn on the slate under the glass, and to name aloud the colour he
would have it drawn in. He thought of a cross, and chose aloud the blue
colour. I suggested that blue was too dark to be easily seen, and asked him
to take white, which he agreed to. We sat holding hands and watching the
pieces of chalk under the tumbler. No one was touching the slate this time,
not even Mr. Davey. In a few minutes Mr. Davey was again violently
agitated as with an electric shock, which went through him from head to foot,
and immediately afterwards we taw, with our own eyes, each one of us, tho
pieces of chalk under the glass begin to move slowly, and apparently to walk
of their own accord across the space of the slate under the tumbler. My
husband had said just hefore that if the piece of red chalk under that
tumbler moved, he would give his head to anyone who wanted it, so sure
was he that it could not possibly move. The first piece of chalk that began
to walk about was that very red piece ! Then the blue and white moved
simultaneously, as though uncertain which was the one desired. It was
utterly astounding to all of us to see these pieces of chalk thus walking about
under the glass with no visible agency to move them ! All the while Mr.
The word selected by me to appear between the slates was " Parnell."
After remaining in this position for some fifteen minutes, during which time I
watched his hand most carefully, and thwarted what appealed to me to be his several
devices for diverting my attention, he informed me he could not produce the writing
unlets I allowed him to take the elates out of the room I
To this I assented, feeling that I was beginning to expose his inability to rival the
"spirit-mediums" if only ordinary watchfulness were exercised. While these and
similar thoughts crossed my mind.the door opened, he returned with the slates, having-
only been absent from the room 3 minutes. I then examined the slates most carefully,
and I solemnly assert that my seals were intact in every case and that the slates wero
bolted together so tightly that it would have been impossible to introduce even the
blade of a penknife between them, while my cord round them was as tight as when it
left my hands, and the sealed ends were undisturbed.
Tho task of unscrewing the slates, &c, occupied several minutes, and this I per
formed myself, when I confess, greatly to my surprise, that the word " Parnell " was
clearly and distinctly written on the inner surface of the lower slate. This I was at a
loss to account for, especially as the piece of chalk that was enclosed had no sign of
friction whatever upon it, this being evident at a glance, as the ends thereof had been
newly broken.
I neither know nor pretend to understand how this trick is done, but I congratu
late Mr. Davey on the celerity displayed by him, and the skill he undoubtedly
possesses.
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 275
Davey, whose hands were held on one side by myself and on the other side
by my husband, seemed to be on a great nervous strain, with hot hands and
great beads of perspiration. When the chalks stopped moving, we lifted the
tumbler, and there was a cross, partly blue and partly white, and a long red
line marking the path taken by the red chalk ! We were impressed by this
test beyond the power of words to declare. The test conditions were perfect,
and the whole thing took place under our eyes on top of the table with no
hands of anybody near the slate.
The ostensible reason for placing the slate on the salt-cellars was
that the slate might be insulated, so that the explanation of " electri
city " might not be offered ! Mr. Davey has a fine silk thread attached
to one end of a button on his waistcoat. To the other end is fixed a
small piece of red wax, which except when in use in the experiment
is in his pocket together with the slack of the silk thread. While
placing the slate on the salt-cellars with his left hand he takes the piece
of wax between the fingers of his right hand, picks up with these
same fingers some pieces of chalk,—moves his right hand forward to
the other side of the slate—not yet placed in position—so that the
thread shall be under the slate when the slate is placed on the salt
cellars. He then places the slate in position, brings his hand down
from the far side of the slate and places the pieces of chalk and the
piece of wax on the middle of the slate, and places the inverted tumbler
over them. But while he is making a little heap of the chalks on the
middle of the slate, before placing the tumbler in position, he also
draws a figure (or a number, as the case may be) that he thinks the
sitter is most likely to choose. He draws this, of course, very rapidly
and dexterously, and he arranges the chalks over it so as to conceal it.
Further, he has placed the piece of wax on the side of the heap which
is nearest to himself. He now takes his place very carefully so that
the thread, the length of which has been well calculated, shall not be
tightened too soon. The reader will now see that by withdrawing his
body from the table, Mr. Davey can finally cause the wax to move in
the opposite direction, i.e., away from himself, and through, so to speak,
the little group of chalk fragments, producing a movement in them
also. The tumbler is then lifted in excitement, usually by Mr. Davey,
the slate is inspected, and a figure discovered. In the meantime Mr.
Davey gives a jerk to the thread, moves away from the table, and
gathers the wax and thread once more into his pocket.
There are several minor details of Mr. Davey's performances which
hardly need explaining. Thus many of the sitters describe the pieces
of pencil or chalk as being worn at the conclusion of an experiment.
Usually they would have been found equally worn at the beginning of
the experiment had the attention of the sitters been then called
to them. Sometimes, indeed, they were not worn at the beginning,
but Mr. Davey then took care to substitute worn pieces before the
276 Mr. R. Hodgson.
•writing was produced. There are several specific cases (Sittings I.,
IX., and XIII.) where the pencil was found resting at the end of the
message. These were in locked-slate experiments. Mr. Davey had
chosen and placed the pencil so that when the slate (to be substituted)
was closed, the pencil did not move when the slate was shaken. When
the slate was carefully opened, right side up, the pencil was found
where Mr. Davey had placed it.
After the foregoing explanations I believe that the reader will find
little difficulty in explaining to himself Mr. Davey's modus operandi in
most of the experiments in the series of sittings with him recorded in
Vol. IV. of our Proaedings. But I shall give the details of a few
other cases where either possibly the reader may still be unable to see
the exact method used, or where a special additional trick was in
volved.
In Sitting III. occurs the following description :—
The next experiment was the placing of 3 bits of coloured chalk on the
table, and of a clean slate (selected and placed by myself) over them. I put
my hand on the slate, Davey his on mine, and we joined contact. Again we
heard the sound of writing, and when I lifted the slate there was written
-large and neatly in the coloured chalks (three lines or so in each colour) this
message :—"Don't you think I've done enough for you to-night I'm tired
Joey." I noticed the chalks seemed worn, showing signs of work, just like
the little bit of pencil in the previous experiment.
Mr. Davey very rarely used the " trick slate," but the case
•described above was. one instance of its use. The slate was neither
selected nor placed by the sitter. Mr. Davey first placed some coloured
nibs of chalk on the table just in front of the sitter. He then took
one of his own slates which the sitter had not touched, and apparently
sponged both sides thoroughly. Mr. Davey himself then placed the
slate over the pieces of chalk, and asked the sitter to place his hand
upon the slate. The sitter then for the first time touched the slate.
The slate used in this case had a false flap, which fitted the frame. On
the surface of the slate itself, under this flap, was a prepared communi
cation. The exterior surface of the flap resembled the exterior surface
of the true slate. The interior surface of the flap was covered with a
piece of blotting-paper which bore marks of use in the form of casual
blots and lines, &c. On the table in close juxtaposition lay a pile of
blotting-paper, the top of which was also marked by casual blots, &c.
This blotting-paper was there for the ostensible purpose of drying the
slates. Mr. Davey took the slate with false flap uppermost, and sponged
the exterior surface of the flap. He then turned the slate over on top
of the blotting-paper, and sponged the other surface of the slate. Ho
then lifted the slate and placed it above the chalks, leaving the false
Mr. Davey'a Imitations by Conjuring, itc. 277
flap behind upon the pile of blotting-paper, but with the blotting-paper
side of it uppermost. The sitter was watching the slate "with all his
eyes," but, of course, saw nothing which it was undesirable that he
should see. " The chalks seemed worn," as the sitter says, but then
the sitter did not examine the chalks beforehand, or he would have
found them equally worn then.
There are two reports of Sitting VII., and I may refer to an
experiment where the reports differ in a very important point. Mr.
V.'s report is :—
The medium tore off half a sheet of letter-paper bearing the address of
his house ; this he gummed to the surface of an ordinary slate, a fragment
of lead pencil was put on the paper, and the slate then transferred beneath
the table-flap, and held by Mr. P. and the medium. Writing immediately
audible. At our request the slate was exposed before it had ceased. To the
best of my remembrance the slate could not have been beneath the table-flap
for more than 20 seconds. On examination we found the following message
written in a hand which bore a much greater resemblance to the medium's
than any of the others.
Mr. M. writes :—
Mr. Pinnock asked if we could not get the writing on a piece of paper
instead of the slate. Mr. Davey said we might try, and thereupon tore a
sheet of writing-paper into two, and pasted one half on to a slate by the four
corners ; ho cut off a small piece of black lead from the end of a pencil, put
it on the paper and covered the slate with another slate. Writing was heard
at once, and we separated the slates and found the paper written over
diagonally as in the case of the first slate. The paper was not, however,
quite full, and it looked as if the slates were separated too soon, as the
sentence was not finished. The writing was evidently written with the point
of the pencil.
This experiment was actually " led up to " by Mr. Davey, who had
already prepared the message, and who substituted the slate containing
the prepared message by the two-single-slates method already described
(p. 257). Mr. Davey also suggested that the slates should be examined
before the sound as of writing had ceased.
In her report of Sitting XVI. Miss Symons describes one experi
ment as follows :—
He took up 12 squares of paper, asked me to name any 12 animals I liked,
whose names he wrote on the 12 squares of paper. These were shuffled
together, and I was asked to choose one, which I was to glance at and then
instantly to burn. Mr. Davey at the same time threw the other squares into
the fire. I next wrote the first and last letters of the animal I had chosen on
another piece of paper, this Mr. Davey burned in the gas, bared his arm and
showed us that there was nothing written there, rubbed the ashes of the
burnt paper over the bare arm, and presently what looked like letters becamo-
very faintly visible. They did not, however, become sufficiently distinct to
enable us to read them, and Mr. Davey said he would presently get the
278 Mr. R. Hodgson.
animal's name written on a slate. . . . Before he left, Mr. Davey held a
date with me under the table, and asked that the name of the animal
written on the slip of paper I had chosen should be written on the slate.
Writing was heard, the slate brought up, and I found "rhinoceros"—
wrongly spelt—in red chalk. This was correct, though how Mr. Davey
knew, or by what means the word was written, I have no idea, for the slate
appeared to me to be clean when we put it under the table.
This, though not on this occasion completely successful, is a very
oasy trick. Before the experiment, write on the arm, with a brush or
n feather, in uric acid, the name of an animal (or a flower, or a country,
(tc.) likely to be one of twelve chosen. Wait till it dries. There
is then no visible trace upon the arm. When the sitter names an
animal, write, on the square of paper, the name that you have written
upon your arm. Do the same with every piece of paper, no matter
what animal the sitter names. The slip chosen afterwards by the
sitter will necessarily contain the name written upon your arm. Rub
the ashes of this paper upon the arm, and the letters will " stand out "
in the colour of the ash. I have performed this experiment myself
successfully two or three hours after writing the name upon my arm.
The word " rhinoceros " was already written on the slate when Mr.
Davey placed it under the table, as Mrs. Sidgwick had good ground
for stating, for Mr. Davey wrote it openly in her presence and showed
it to her while Miss Symons was out of the.room.
Those who have read thus far, and who have taken pains to compare
my explanations not only with those accounts which I have re-quoted
in this article, but with the reports as originally given in Vol. IV. of
our Proceedings, will realise now, I trust, if they have not done so
previously, the extreme imperfection of those reports, and therefore the
great unreliability of any testimony to the ordinary " slate-writing "
performances of professional mediums. The medium may leave the
room, he may withdraw a slate several times, he may separate slates
placed together on the table, and alter their respective positions, he
may turn slates over together, and yet not one of these circumstances
may appear in the report of the sitter. These points and others the
student might easily have discovered for himself by comparing the
different reports given of the same sittings by the uninitiated witnesses,
and yet these points are all of the most fundamental importance as
regards the question of trickery. Thus in Sitting II. only one witness
out of three refers to Mr. Davey's leaving the room, and only one
witness out of three mentions the withdrawals of the slate before the
writing was manifest. In Sitting IV. only one witness out of three
records the separation of slates placed together on the table, Ac
Further, in Sitting II. only one witness out of three records a highly
important incident (the sitters' writing down on slates the numbers of
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, iSjc. 279
which they were thinking), which was specially brought about by Mr.
Davey for the express purpose of making a substitution, and during
which the substitution was actually made.
Yet here I must confess that while it is gratifying to learn that
Mr. Davey's labours have been so successful in producing the conviction
that his " manifestations " and those of certain professional mediums do
actually belong to the same category, it is disappointing to find that
the chief object of at least my own Introduction to Mr. Davey's investi
gation seems to have met with but little appreciation by Mr. Wallace
and those whom he represents. I admitted that " there are numerous
records of 'psychographic' phenomena that have occurred with mediums
(and also with Mr. Davey) which, as described, are inexplicable by
trickery," and I endeavoured to show " how far such records might be
misdescriptions, and what were the chief causes of the misdescriptions."
The notes to the records were made for the purpose of showing to
investigators some of the important misdescriptions that actually oc
curred, and that are therefore to be expected in such records. Further,
there were five sittings each of which was reported by more than one
witness, and opportunity was given to the student to discover for him
self, by a comparison of different reports of the same sitting, numerous
other instances of misdescription. The question of primary importance
concerns the value of human testimony under the circumstances in
volved. Why do we not accept such testimony? Because it is
demonstrably fallible in precisely those particular points where it must
be shown infallible before the phenomena can be accepted as super
normal. I have already briefly adverted to some of the instances of
this fallibility in the explanations which 1 have given of Mr. Davey's
methods, but it seems to me needful to further emphasise it in view of
the fact that Mr. Wallace has been able to entertain the idea that
Mr. Davey was a "medium." My purpose will, I think, be sufficiently
conserved if I refer to one or two additional striking cases of dis
crepancies between reports of the same sittings.
In Sitting I. a long message was obtained on the locked slate, but
the message was incomplete, ending " We hope to." Mr. Davey ended
the message purposely in this way and afterwards " led up to " the
request that the message might be concluded. In the meantime Mr.
Davey had written the conclusion of the message on one of Mr. R.'s
slates, which was lying on the table, writing downwards, ready for the
experiment.
Mr. R. writes as follows :—
I desired after this to have the writing on the double slate of Mr. Davey's
continued at the point where it had been broken off, and obtained this result
on one of my slates which I held underneath the table and which began
immediately. "We hope to see you again—Joey." I was also anxious to
280 Mr. R. Hodgson.
know what the VII signified as I have already said before. On the first
attempt we got the answer—" good-bye Joey "—but we were more success
ful on again putting the question, the result being a distinct " Septe " ;
whether, as I have already said, it was intended for September I cannot tell.
Mr. L.'s account is :—
Tho writing having stopped so abruptly, two ordinary slates were placed
upon the table in the manner before described, and it was asked by Mr. It.
that the letter should be concluded. Within a period of 15 seconds from tho
time of asking such question and after completing the circle with our hands,
the words "to see you again, Joey," were written.
The two slates were again placed in the same position as before, and Mr.
R. having put an unimportant question, after the completion of the circle
as beforo, I saw upon the slate " Good-bye, Joey " ; but on a second trial a
scrawl was obtained which looked very mueh like "Sept. Joey," but it was
impossible to say defmitely what it was intended for.
It is noteworthy that Mr. L. makes this experiment follow imme
diately after the loeked-slate message, and places tho " tumbler " trick
last, while Mr. R. makes it follow the " tumbler " trick, which he puts
immediately after the locked-slato experiment. 1 do not recall what Mr.
Davey told me about his precise operations in connection with these
writings, but from my knowledge of his methods, aided by his note, I
infer that he cleaned the top of the slate, the underside of which was
already prepared with the conclusion of the message, that he placed
this slate under the table, turning it over in the process according to
the single-slate method described on p. 256. He then wrote " Good
bye, Joey," on the then under surface of the slate with his thimble-
pencil, brought the slate up and laid it upon the table, when tho words,
" hope to see you again, Joey," were manifest. These words were
rubbed out, and this slate placed upon another slate, and both slates
together placed under the table, being reversed in the process. He
then wrote " Sept. Joey" on the under surface of the bottom slate,
brought both slates together to the top of the table, and lifted the top
slate, when the words "Good-bye, Joey," appeared on the upper surface
of the bottom slate. He rubbsd these out, put this slate upon the
other, and placed them once more under the table, reversing them as
he did so, and then possibly, as though changing his mind, placed them
on top of the table again. When the top slate was removed, " Sept.
Joey " appeared on the upper surface of the bottom slate.
But I wish to draw the reader's particular attention here, for a
reason which will appear later, to the fact that one witness states that
the communication came upon a single slate held underneath the table
(a statement which Mr. Davey confirms), and the other that it came
between two slates placed on top of the table. Nor is this the only-
instance of a mistake of this kind in the reports. Comparing the
accounts of the letter-paper incident which occurred in Sitting VII.,
Mr. Dtivei/8 Imitations, by Conjuring, Sc. 281
and which I have quoted on p. 277, it will be noticed that in one account
the experiment is described as having been made with a single slate
held underneath the table, in the other as having been made with two
slates above the table. The experiment was actually made with two
slates which were probably finally held under the table.
Another important discrepancy between the reports of Sitting VII.
occurs in the case of the ordinary two-slates experiment. Mr. V., after
referring to the locked slate and the writing of a question therein, ifec.,
describes experiments [a] and [6], and then proceeds to describe experi
ment [c] as follows :—
Two ordinary slates taken, cleaned by us, but not marked, pieces of red
and green chalk introduced between them, the slates then deposited in front
of the medium in full view, and about four or five inches from the edge of
the table and from the medium's body ; the medium rested one of his hands
on the upper surface of the top slate, and my hand reposed on his.
After a pause the sound of writing distinctly audible ; this continued for
about 15 seconds, then the medium remarked, " What a pity I forgot to ask
you what colour you would have it in." Mr. M. suggested green ; sound
of writing continued for about five seconds longer, then ceased. On the
removal of the top slate, the bottom slate was found to be completely
covered with writing. The writing ran in diagonal lines across the slate ;
the writing was upside down with respect to the medium ; the writing was
firm and distinct in character. The first three-quarters of the message were
written in red, the last quarter in green.
Mr. M. is much more accurate in his account of this incident, and
I include, in the quotation which I give, his reference to other
experiments which came between the beginning and the end of the
two-slates experiment. There is no clue to the modus operandi, for
the uninitiated reader, in Mr. V.'s account, but there are very obvious
clues, for any careful student of the series of reports, in Mr. M.'s
account. Mr. M. describes the locked slate, &c, ,fec, and then
proceeds :—
Mr. Davey then showed me some ordinary slates, in wooden frames.
These I helped him to wash and dry. We then took our seats round the
table. . . . Mr. Davey asked Mr. Pinnock to place the locked slate
under his (Mr. Pinnock's) coat and then button up the coat.
[c] We now took three slates, on one of them we placed three fragments
of crayon, two of which were red, the other green, we then covered up this
slate with another and left them on the table in full view.
[a] On the third slate we also put a piece of crayon and then held the
slate underneath one flap of the table which we put up for the pur
pose. . . . We sat in this way talking and smoking for some time,
twenty minutes to half an hour I should say, nothing whatever occurring.
At last Mr. Davey asked me to change places with Mr. Pinnock. This I did
and thus had one of my hands on the slate. Mr. Davey now said, that in
the manner usual at seances we would ask questions of an imaginary being ;
u
282 Mr. R. Hodgson.
and he said, " Are you going to do anything to-night, Joey 1 " After a short
pause he repeated the question, and then I felt the slate vibrate as if being
written on, and could hear a scratching noise ; we took the slate from under
the table-flap and saw the word "yes" written over Mr. V.'s initials, and
I particularly noticed that the writing was towards Mr. Davey, and upside
down to him, and in all we saw afterwards this was the case.
[b] I now asked a question as to the whereabout of a person at that time,
not knowing the answer myself ; we waited for some time without any result,
when Mr. Davey asked me to again change places with Mr. Pinaock.
[d, e, g, &c.] I did so, and Mr. Davey told Mr. Pinnock to place the locked
slate on the table beside the two slates we had left face to face, and we also
lifted the uppermost of these two slates and found the slates still quite clean,
with the three pieces of crayon between them. We again waited some time
with no results ; meantime, having a discussion as to mediumship of different
people, and then Mr. Davey asked if I were a medium. After a pause I
heard vigorous scratchings on the two slates left face to face on the table and
on which Mr. Davey's arm was resting, his two hands being engaged, one in
holding the slate under the table flap, the other in holding Mr. V.'s
hand ; the scratching lasted roughly under ten seconds, and I expected to see
a dozen words or so, and was therefore amazed to discover, when the top slate
was lifted, that the underneath slate was covered with writing from corner to
corner, and also the writing was not straight across the slate, but was across
it diagonally ; three-quarters of the writing was in red, the other quarter ht
green, and no crayon teas left.
Now, the reader will easily infer from Mr. M.'s account that the two
slates were placed in position by Mr. Davey and were wrongly supposed
by the sitters to have been taken from those cleaned by them some time
—not immediately—previously. After studying the accounts of Sittings.
IV., especially the reasoning by Mr. Padshah, and after considering that
the slates used were Mr. Davey's, the reader will also infer that the
under surface of the bottom slate was already covered with the writing
afterwards found. He will then argue that if a series of movements,
such as those described by Mr. Russell (see p. 264) could be completely
omitted from the report of Mr. Padshah, they might also have occurred
in Sitting VII., although they are not recorded in the reports of that
sitting. But more instructive even than these clues in Mr. M.'s account
to Mr. Davey's modus operandi, is the fact that Mr. V. describes the
steps of the experiment as though they came in immediate sequence i
whereas we learn from Mr. M. that about half an hour elapsed between
the first and last steps of the experiment, and that during this interval
experiments were being made with a single slate. These experiments
[a] and [6] are described by Mr. V., but they are described as occurring
before the commencement of [c].
I shall give one more illustration of differences between reports of
the same sitting before proceeding to consider in detail those (slate-
writing) sittings which Mr. Wallace has mentioned as being, apparently.
Mr. Davey'a Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 283
particularly hard to explain. In his report of Sitting VII. Mr. V.
writes :—
At the request of the medium, Mr. P. wrote a question in the book-slate
(I shall call this slate A in future) ; he then locked it and pocketed the key.
Neither Mr. M. nor I knew the nature of the question at the time. The slate
was left for some minutes upon the seat of an arm-chair, but was subsequently
transferred first to Mr. P.'s coat, and then to the table at which we sat.
Later on, after recounting experiments with a single slate and with
two slates, Mr. V. continues :—
The medium and Mr. P. placed their hands upon slate A, which had
remained in sight in front of the latter since the commencement of the
seance. The sound of writing audible almost immediately. Mr. P. opened
slate, and we found the question he had written, together with the accom
panying answer.
Turning now to Mr. M.'s account, we find that he also mentions
that Mr. Pinnock, at the beginning of the sitting, wrote a question in
the slate, locked it and kept the key. He says nothing, however, as to
what was done with the slate at that time, but goes on to describe, as
the next events, the examination of the table, the cleaning of ordinary
slates, seating themselves at the table, &c. He then writes : " Mr.
Davey asked Mr. Pinnock to place the locked slate under his (Mr. Pin-
nock's) coat and then button up the coat." Then follows his description
of the two-slates experiment, which I have quoted above (p. 282), on
reference to which it will be seen that Mr. Pinnock placed the locked
slate on the table before any writing had been obtained between the
two single slates. After the writing between the two slates was obtained,
the locked-slate experiment was proceeded with.
Mr. Davey now put his hand on the locked slates which had been left
on the table since Mr. Pinnock took them from under his coat ; we heard
scratching inside. ,
Putting these accounts together, it is obvious where the opportunities
for substitution were given. B might have been substituted for A
shortly after A was locked up and while it was resting on the arm
chair as described by Mr. V., so that it was really B that Mr. P. placed
in his pocket (a desirable place lest the sitter should think of examining
it before A was re-substituted). The re-substitution of A was easy
while the sitters were absorbed in the long message that appeared
between the two slates.
Compare, with these reports, those of Mr. R. and Mr. L. of the
locked-slate experiment in Sitting I. The first mention of this ex
periment by Mr. L. occurs after the experiments with the single slate
and with the two slates together. He writes :—
Mr. Davey then produced a "locked slate," which I examined most
minutely, and, as far as I was able to judge, the surfaces were genuine slate
U 2
284 Mr, R. Hodgson.
and had not undergone any process of preparation which would aid him in
obtaining writing. A small crumb of pencil was inserted, and the slate
closed and locked by Mr. R. The key was then given into my possession.
We then placed our hands in an exactly similar position as before, and Mr.
R. having repeated the question, " Will the Emperor of Germany live
through the year ? " I very soon heard the pencil travelling over the surface of
the slate. After the lapse of about four minutes the slate was carefully
unlocked by Mr. R., and the pencil very much worn was found at the place
where the writing ended.
From this account it would seem that the first inspection of the
locked slate almost immediately preceded the production of the writing,
but it appears from Mr. R.'s account that the slate was inspected and
locked at the very beginning of the sitting, and was put by him in the
pocket of his coat. After describing the experiments with a single
slate and with double slates, he continues :—-
The next experiment was with Mr. Davey's closed slate. After it had
been produced from my pocket we laid it on the table locked and with the
small piece of pencil inside, joined hands as before and the question was put,
" Will the Emperor of Germany live through the present year?" Imme
diately the writing began, exactly the same as on previous occasions, and
when after the space of 4 minutes (about) I carefully unlocked the slate we
found the following wonderful message.
If the reader will compare these accounts with the accounts of the
locked-slate experiment in Sitting VII., and especially with that by Mr.
M., he will at once surmise that the locked slate was produced from
Mr. R.'s pocket before the communication was obtained between the
two slates in the preceding experiment, and that while the sitters were
absorbed in its contemplation Mr. Davey substituted B for A. But the
important point to notice is not how the trick was done. The impor
tant point is that just as we have seen from the reports of Sitting VII.
that a witness may describe the steps of the two-slates experiment as
though they occurred in immediate sequence, with no other experi
ments intervening, whereas in reality the last steps were separated
from the first by an interval of half an hour, during which other ex
periments were made with a single ordinary slate, and the lacked slate
also claimed attention :—so here we find, from the reports of Sitting I.,
that a witness may describe the steps of the locked-slate experiment as
occurring in immediate sequence, with no other experiments intervening,
whereas in reality the last steps were separated from the first by an.
interval during which various experiments were made with a single slate
and with two slates together.
Bearing in mind, then, these two special possibilities of error and
also the other possibilities of error to which I have drawn attention on
pp. 260, 263, 269, all of which are sufficiently demonstrated by comparing
the reports of tfte sitters themselves, let us now consider in detail the
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 285 ;
reports of Sittings XI. and XII., which Mr. Wallace has particularly
mentioned (Journal S.P.R., March, 1891) as needing explanation.
The report of the experiments in Sitting XI. is as follows :—•
la] After I had finished examining the [locked] slate, Mr. Davey asked
me to write in the slate any question I liked while he was absent from the
room. Picking up a piece of grey crayon, I wrote the following question :
"What is the specific gravity of platinum?" and then having locked the
slate and retained the key, I placed the former on the table and the latter in
my pocket.
After the lapse of a few minutes I heard a distinct sound as of writing,
and on being requested to unlock the slate I there discovered to my great
surprise the answer of my question : " We don't know the specific gravity,
Joey." The pencil with which it was written was a little piece which we had
enclosed, and which would just rattle between the sides of the folded slate.
Having had my hands on the slate above the table, I can certify that the
slate was not touched or tampered with during the time the writing was
going on.
[6] Next ; having taken an ordinary scholar's shtte and placed a fragment
of red crayon upon it, Mr. Davey placed it under the flap of the table. I held
one side with my hand as before. I then heard the same sound as previously,
and when the slate was placed on the table I found the following short
address distinctly written: "Dear Mr. S ,—The substitution dodge is
good ; the chemical is better, but you see by the writing the spirits know a
trick worth two of that. This medium is honest, and I am the only true
Joey." The writing was in red crayon, and was in regular parallel straight
lines.
[c] Then, again, Mr. Davey requested me to place a small fragment of
slate pencil in the lock slate, which latter had been previously cleansed with
sponge by me. Respecting the method of closing the slate, &c, everything
was done as in thefirst instance ; the slate was locked, and I retained the key.
As soon as the sound of writing was over I picked the slate from off the
table, where it had been lying right under my eyes, unlocked it, and read as
follows : '' We are very pleased to be able to give you this writing under these
conditions, because with your special knowledge upon the subject you can
negative the theory of antecedent preparation of this slate as advanced by
certain wiseacres to explain the mystery.—' Joey.' " The fact that the pencil
when removed from the interior of the slate had diminished in size and showed
distinct traces of friction convinces me that it was the pencil and nothing else
which produced the caligraphy. If the particles taken from the pencil by
friction did not go on the surface of the slate, where could they go 1
[d] Lastly, as requested by Mr. Davey, I took a coin from my pocket
without looking at it, placed it in an envelope and sealed it up. I am certain
that neither Mr. Davey nor myself knew anything about the coin. I then
placed it in the book-slate together with a piece of pencil, closed it as
previously and deposited it on the table ; and having placed my hands with
those of Mr. Davey on the upper surface of the slate, waited a short time. I
then unlocked the slate as requested, and to my intense amazement I found
the date of the coin written, by the side of the envelope containing it.
286 Mr. R. Hodgson,
The seal and envelope (which I have now) remained intact-
This last feat astonished me more than the others, so utterly impossible
and abnormal did it appear to me. I may also mention that everything
which was used, including the cloth and sponge with which the slates were
cleansed, were eagerly and thoroughly scrutinised by me, and I failed to
detect anything in the shape of mechanism of any kind.
Now, that this report is very scanty and inadequate is obvious on
the face of it, and Mr. Davey assured me that there were other ex
periments tried of which no mention appears in the report. But I do
not propose to depend, for my explanations of this sitting, simply and
merely upon either my remembrance of conversations with Mr. Davey
or my detailed knowledge of his methods. I am anxious that students
should learn how to interpret for themselves such accounts as these,
and it seems to me that I can best achieve this result by pointing out,
to begin with, some of the most obvious indications, which we find in
the report itself, of its deficiencies, afterwards amending the report as
regards its most flagrant misdescriptions. We shall then easily see
how the tricks were performed.
In the first place, then, let us note that various important circum
stances receive no mention whatever in the report. Mr. S. tells us
that after he locked the slate in experiment [o] he placed it on the
table, and "after the lapse of a few minutes" he heard "a distinct
sound as of writing," ,fee. But he tells us absolutely nothing as to
what happened during this interval which he describes as a " few
minutes." He does not even mention the return of Mr. Davey to the
room. The locked slate might have been changed a hundred times for
all that appears to the contrary in the sitter's account. What he
certifies is " that the slate was not touched or tampered with during
the time the [sound as of] writing was going on." The reader may also
notice that the sitter does not say anything about enclosing a piece of
pencil when he first locked the slate, but it appears afterwards that
" the pencil with which it [the answer] was written was a little piece
which we had enclosed." Here is another indication of circumstances
omitted. When did "we" enclose it?
Concerning experiment \b\ Mr. S. writes : " Having taken an
ordinary scholar's slate and placed a fragment of red crayon on it, Mr.
Davey placed it under the flap of the table. I held one side with my
hand as before." Before ? when ? The sitter makes no mention of
any previous experiment where he assisted in holding a slate under the
table, yet his remark here carries a clear implication that there was at
least one such previous experiment. Again, the sitter says that Mr.
Davey placed the slate under the table, and he does not say that any ex
amination of it was made by himself. There is, therefore, nothing in his
description of this experiment which conflicts with the supposition that
Mr. Davey"s Imitations by Conjuring, i£-c. 287
Mr. Davey took a slate with the writing already on one side, slipped
it under the table, turned it over, pressed it against the flap, and then
asked the sitter to join in holding it against the table.
Similarly, in his account of experiment [c] there is no express
statement that conflicts with the supposition that the slate might have
been changed during the interval between the sitter's examination of
the slate and the beginning of the sound as of writing. The sitter
says nothing as to the interval that elapsed between the time of his
depositing the slate, after locking it, on the table, and the conclusion
of the sound as of writing, except the remark, " where it had been
lying right under my eyes," and he does not expressly say that it had
been " lying right under his eyes " during the whole of the interval in
question. The inference from his remark, comparing it with his account
of experiment [o], is that what he meant was that the slate had been
"lying right under his eyes" during "the time the [sound as of]
writing was going on." Other experiments occupying, say, half an
hour might have been in progress between the time of the sitter's
locking the slate and hearing the sound as of writing.
Now, we have already seen that witnesses may make numerous
positive and express statements which are entirely erroneous, the
result being ftiat if their descriptions are taken as correct, the
phenomena which they describe are inexplicable by trickery. But,
curiously enough, in the report before us, the phenomena described in
the three first experiments mentioned by the sitter are perfectly
explicable by trickery without altering a single word of his accounts of
them. Only in his account of experiment [d], and scarcely in that, are the
details narrated in such a way that, as described, trickery seems impossible.
Let us now revise the report of these four experiments. We may
do this by consideration of the methods usually adopted by Mr. Davey
as revealed in the whole series of sittings, and by consideration also of
the errors to which a witness is liable, as revealed by a comparison
of the different reports given of the same sitting. We find, then, that
Mr. Davey usually began by giving the locked slate to the sitter to
examine, and possibly to write a question therein. He then tried
experiments with a single slate and with two slates together, and
afterwards recurred to the locked slate. Observing this general order,
I amend the report as follows, correcting, of course, by no means all
of its fundamental misdescriptions ; but—and I desire to lay very
special emphasis on this fact—the changes which I do make, excepting
the descriptions of the actual substitution of one slate for another, and
the doings of Mr. Davey while out of the room, are all warranted by a
comparison of the reports of those sittings where more than one in-
dependent report was made. The additions which I make are in square
brackets, and the italicised parts explain how the tricks were done.
288 Mr. R. Hodtfson.
[a] After I had finished examining the slate, Mr. Davey asked me to write
in the slate any question I liked while he was absent from the room.
Picking up a piece of grey crayon, I wrote the following question : " What
is the specific gravity of platinum 1 " and then having locked the slate and
retained the key, I placed the former on the table and the latter in my
pocket.
[When Mr. Davey returned to the room, he asked me to examine the
table carefully, which I did. It was an ordinary table, without any trick-
mechanism of any sort. During this interval Mr. Davey substituted B for
A. He then gave me some ordinary slates to wash and dry. During th is
interval Mr. Davey left the room, opened A and answered the question, and
returned and re-substituted A for B. Mr. Davey now took three slates.
[b] On one of them (which had not been in the hands of the sitter, awl on
the under surface of which was the prepared message) he placed a fragment
of red crayon. He then covered up this slate with another and left them on
the table in full view. On the third slate he also put a fragment of crayon
and held it under the table against the flap and asked me to hold it on my
side. We asked if we should get any phenomena, and after a short time the
sound of writing was heard, and we looked at the slate and found the answer
" Yes." We then put our hands on the locked slate.]
[a] After the lapse of a few minutes I heard a distinct sound as of writing,
and on being requested to unlock the slate I there discovered to my great
surprise the answer of my question : " We don't know the specific gravity,
Joey." The pencil with which it was written was a little piece which we had
enclosed, and which would just rattle between the sides of the folded slate.
Having had my hands on the slate above the table, I can certify that the
slate was not touched or tampered with during the time the writing was
going on.
[c] Then, again. Mr. Davey requested me to place a small fragment of
slate-pencil in the lock slate, which latter had been previously cleansed with
sponge by me. Respecting the method of closing the slate, &c, everything
was done as in the first instance ; the slate was locked, and I retained the
key.
[In the meantime Mr. Davey lifted the top slate of the two on the table,
but there was no writing there. He reversed the positioits of the two slates so
tltat the slate with the message on the under surface was now on top. Mr.
Davey then took these two slates and placed them under the flap of the table,
reversing them together as he did so.]
[6] I held one side with my hand as before. I then heard the same sound
as previously, and when the slate was placed on the table I found the following
short address distinctly written : "Dear Mr. S ,—The substitution dodge
is good ; the chemical is better, but you see by the writing the spirits know
a trick worth two of that. This medium is honest, and I am the only true
Joey." The writing was in red crayon, and was in regular parallel straight
lines.
[ffliile the sitter was examiidng this message Mr. Davey substitided B for
A. Mr. Davey now put his hands on the locked slate. Very soon the
sound of writing began.]
[c] As soon as the sound of writing was over, I picked the slate from off
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c, 289
the table, where it had been lying right under my eyes, unlocked it, and read
as follows : " Wo are very pleased to be able to give you this writing under
these conditions, because with your special knowledge upon the subject you
can negative the theory of antecedent preparation of this slate as advanced by
certain wiseacres to explain the mystery.—' Joey.' " The fact that the pencil
when removed from the interior of the slate had diminished in size and showed
distinct traces of friction convinces me that it was the pencil and nothing else
which produced the caligraphy. If the particles taken from the pencil by
friction did not go on the surface of the slate, where could they go !
[W7uie the sitter was copging the communication Mr. Davey left the room
and placed the coin in envelope, aud envelope in slate A, and wrote date (see
p. 271) and returned.]
[d] Lastly, as requested by Mr. Davey, I took a coin from my pocket
without looking at it, placed it in an envelope and sealed it up. I am certain
that neither Mr. Davey nor myself knew anything about the coin. I then
placed it in the book-slate together with a piece of pencil, closed it as previously
and deposited it on the table.
[Mr. D. showed and explained to me a means commonly employed in
producing slate-writing by fraud. MHiile the sitter was examining the trick
date, Mr. Davey substituted A for B. I then took the locked slate.]
And having placed my hands with those of Mr. Davey on the upper surface
of the slate, waited a short time. I then unlocked the slate as requested, and
to my intense amazement I found the date of the coin written, by the side of
the envelope containing it.
The reader now will surely need no further enlightenment as to the
details of events in Sitting XII., or indeed in any other sitting of
the series, and will, I trust, be disposed to think, with Mrs. Sidgwick
and myself, that the most startling result of Mr. Davey's investigation
is not the wonder of the tricks themselves, but the extreme unreliability
of the accounts given of them by uninitiated witnesses. And we should
remember further that these accounts probably represent the most
accurate reports, as a whole, of such performances, ever brought to
gether in a series. For the witnesses knew beforehand that they were
expected to write out accounts of what occurred, and more important
still, the reports were written within two or three days after the
sittings. And I may here also refer the reader to my remarks in
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IV., pp. 396-399, concerning the disadvantages
under which Mr. Davey laboured as compared with the ordinary pro
fessional medium.
The reader may now ask how far his knowledge of Mr. Davey's
methods may prevent him from being imposed upon by fraudulent
mediums. Possibly not very much. Frequent observation and practice
of them, however, would no doubt be of great assistance. Surreptitious
writing on slates held under the table, the substitution, openly made,
in the case of slates lying on the table, and the manipulations of two
slates where the writing is originally on the under surface of the lower
290 Mr. It. Hodgson.
slate, and eventually is found on the upper surface of the lower slate,
are, I have no doubt, in frequent use by fraudulent mediums. Eglinton
was apparently in the habit of using all these methods. Mr. Davey
purchased some of his devices from an individual who gave him to
understand that they had been procured from an American medium.
The author of Revelations of a Sjririt-Medium enumerates eight different
methods of apparently producing "independent slate-writing" without
the help of a confederate. The most important of these is a variation
of the two-slates experiment combined with the trick-reading of pellets,
and as I have reports in my possession written by a member of our
Society who witnessed this general method in the case of two well-
known American mediums, Watkins and W. A. Mansfield, I quote
what the author of the book says (pp. 124-126) about this trick.
Another feat that is astonishing and convincing is accomplished with two
clean slates. They are thoroughly cleaned and laid side by side upon a table,
on one side of which sits the "sitter," and opposite him the "medium." The
"sitter" is now furnished with a small square of soft white paper and re
quested to write the name of some deceased friend or relative, and with it a
question. This being done he is requested to fold it up small, similar to the
physician's powder papers. The "medium" has a blank one, folded in the
same way and palmed between the index and middle finger of the right hand.
When the "sitter" has folded his pellet, the "medium" reaches forth his
right hand and takes it between the thumb and index finger and carries it to
his forehead. While raising the hand to the head, he slips the written pellet
down and the blank one in view. After holding it to his forehead a few
seconds he requests the " sitter " to take it and hold it against his own fore
head for a moment. Of course the "sitter" gets the blank pellet and the
" medium's " hand drops to his lap. He now opens the pellet and reads it.
We will say it reads : "John Smith. Will my business succeed 1 George."
Having read it and palmed it again, he now requests to hold the pellet to
his forehead again. He effects the change and says to the " sitter " : " You
now hold the pellet in your left hand and I will write the answer."
This time the "sitter" has the pellet he wrote, and holds it while the
" medium" takes up a slate, and leaning well back, holds the slate with his
left hand and body, and writes with the right hand in such a position that
the "sitter" cannot see the writing. He writes :
" Dear George, —Your business is sure to succeed beyond your expecta
tions. John Smith."
He now states to the "sitter" that he does not feel at all sure that he has
written the correct answer, and reads aloud :
" The papers will never be found. Harry White."
Of course it is not an answer to the question, and the " sitter" so states.
The "medium" requests that he open the pellet and see if it is plainly
written, with no omission of words.
While he is doing so the slate is deftly turned the other side up. When
the sitter reports that the question is properly and plainly written, the
"medium " apparently rubs off the line of writing and lays the slate on the
table, writing underneath. He now announces that he will let the spirits do
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 291
their own writing, and putting the other slate on top of the one containing
the writing lays his hands on top of the slate a few seconds, when he opens
them, and of course there is no writing.
He now states that he does not believe he can get anything—but, wait,
he says, we will put the pellet inside—(hat may help them.
The pellet is placed on the blank slate and the one containing the writing
laid on top. Now the writing is between the slates. In picking up the two
slates together, he turns them over, and the writing is on the bottom slate.
He now allows the "sitter " to hold the slates alone, and indicates when to
open them. They are opened, and much astonishment created by the pointed
answer to the question inside the pellet.
It is obvious that there may be many variations of this trick. In
the sittings with Watkins and Mansfield, accounts of which were
written by Mr. John F. Brown, an Associate Member of the American
Branch, each of the sitters (three at one sitting and two at the other)
wrote several questions on slips of paper afterwards crumpled or folded
into pellets. Some of the medium's surreptitious dealings with their
pellets were observed by the sitters. Mr. Brown's account of the two-
• slates incident at the sitting with Watkins is as follows :—
Watkins " gave the name of George Hall, and soon commenced to write
rapidly, covering one side of the slate, then he turned the slate over on his
arm so that the writing could not be seen, and wrote a few lines more. He
said we had better copy the messages as it would be more interesting for us
to have them to refer to. A. took pencil and paper, and Watkins read slowly
the following communication. . . . The side of the slate containing the
signature was turned towards us without any concealment ; the opposite side
was kept from our view. After he had finished reading, and while we were
looking at the copy, Watkins erased the part we had seen, then turned the
slate end for end, rubbed the sponge again over the same side and put the
slate on the table with writing on its under side. . . . Not long after the
George Hall message, a second attempt was made to get independent writing,
a first attempt having been unsuccessful. The previous attempt was shortly
before the first message, and its lack of success gave Watkins the excuse for
writing himself. A bit of pencil was now laid on the top of a clean slate and
the slate with the writing already on it lifted from the tablo and placed upon
the other. Watkins then took hold of them both, waved them in the air,
and, as he brought them back, turned them over so that the slate now under
neath had writing on the upper side. All this was distinctly followed by us
both, and we were looking for writing just where it appeared."
The writing that appeared, as Mr. Brown points out, was doubtless
what Watkins had written when he was pretending to write the first
part of the George Hall message ; and when he pretended to read the
George Hall message from the slate he " made it up " as he proceeded
until he turned the slate over.
I witnessed yet other slight variations at a sitting with a Mrs.
Gillett. Under pretence of " magnetising " the pellets prepared by the
sitter, or folding them more tightly, she substitutes a pellet of her own
292 Mr. R. Hodgson.
for brie of the sitter's. Reading the sitter's pellet below the table, she
writes the answer on one of her own slates, a pile of which, out of the
sitter's view, she keeps on a chair by her side. She then takes a second
slate, places it on the table, and sponges and dries both sides, after
which she takes the first slate, and turning the side upon which she
has written towards herself, rubs it in several places with a dry cloth
or the ends of her fingers as though cleaning it. She then places it,
writing downward, on the other slate on the table, and sponges and
dries the upper surface of it. She then pretends to take one of the
pellets on the table and put it between the two slates. What she does,
however, is to bring the pellet up from below the table, take another
of the sitter's pellets on the table into her hand, and place the pellet
which she has brought up from below the table between the slates,
keeping in her hand the pellet just taken from the top of the table.
The final step is to place a rubber band round both slates, in doing
which she turns both slates over together. She professes to get the
writing without the use of any chalk or pencil. Some of her slates
are prepared beforehand with messages or drawings. More interesting,
perhaps, because of its boldness, is her method of producing writing on
the sitter's own slates. Under pretence of " magnetising " these she
cleans them several times, rubs them with her hands, stands them up
on end together, and while they are in this position between herself and
the sitter she writes with one hand on the slate-side nearest to herself,
holding the slates erect with the other hand. Later on, she lays both
slates together flat on the table again, the writing being on the under
most surface. She then sponges the upper surface of the top slate,
turns it over, and sponges its other surface. She next withdraws the
bottom slate, places it on top and sponges its top surface, keeping it*
under surface carefully concealed. The final step, the reversal, is made,
as in the other case, with the help of the rubber band. Mrs. Gillett has
probably other methods also. Those which I have described were all
that I witnessed at my single sitting with her.
In many records which have been written of experiences with
" pellet mediums," the writers affirm that the medium never touched
their pellets. In the case of such records we are fully justified in
applying our general conclusions, drawn from a consideration of the
errors made by sitters with Mr. Davey, although Mr. Davey did not,
at any of the sittings reported, use the "pellet" device. If a bond
fide witness can report with confidence that he held his hands on the
slate and watched it continuously during the experiment, when in
reality he completely forgot about it for an appreciable interval during*
which it was manipulated by the " medium," he can equally report that
he watched his pellets the whole time, and that they were not touched
or tampered with by the medium, although as a matter of fact the
Mr. Dave,]/8 Imitations by Conjuring, iL-c. 293
medium did touch them, and did substitute one pellet for another. A
good instance of this has been brought to my recollection by the
following memorandum, which I have just found among my notes :—
October 8th, 1888.
On Saturday morning, October 6th, Mrs. [Q.] called, and during the
conversation referred to the medium Watkins, and a conversation we had
had concerning him the previous week. She had then been profoundly
influenced by sittings which she had with him, and had been most strenuous
in denying that Watkins touched the pellets in any way, although admitting
that Watkins had rolled up one piece of jMiper as specimen, and left it on the
table, and she was unable to say what had afterwards become of it. She had
also been positive that Watkins did not tamper with the slates which she
was holding.
On Saturday morning Mrs. [Q.] told me that since leaving me the previous
week she had recalled that twice, at least, Watkins had touched the pellets,
once when he moved one pellet aside, saying ', this is mine," and on another
occasion when he took up a pellet and asked Jier to pinch it up a little
smaller.
Lapse of memory again, we must note, rather than mal-observation.
Similarly, Mr. Padshah originally scouted the suggestion that he had
lost perception of the locked slate, but when I assured him positively
that he had lost perception of it, he was finally able to discover, in a
dim recess of memory, on its way to oblivion, the occasion of the loss.
And Mr. Padshah's report was written immediately after the sitting.
When we reflect on circumstances like these, how manifestly absurd
appears the reliance which so many Spiritualists place upon reports of
" psychographic " and kindred phenomena, where the lapse from memory
of possibly a single apparently trivial detail vitiates the whole record of
the uninitiated witness.
Slade also uses the two-slates method, as appears from the following
account of a sitting which I had with him in February, 1891 :—
February 10th, 1891.
Sitting with Slade, 11 a.m., February 3rd, at 229, East 14th-street, New
York, with Mr. Z.
Second room—simple table with two leaves—large Pembroke. On
further side of table was a small table close to the large table and close to
the wall, with a cloth over it hanging down. [The accompanying rough
diagram will illustrate the positions.]
204 Mr. R. Hodgson.
SMALL TABLk.
A.
SLADE. Mr. Z.
R. H.
Slade took two slates from the little table, upon which there were four, and
showed them to us. He turned them oyer and let us turn them over—
they were clean. He then replaced them on the small table, and sug
gested trying to get "raps." He asked if Mr. Davis was present—three
raps. .1 ust before this he sat somewhat facing me, with right leg visible and
left leg partly so, saying, "Notice my position." Almost immediately,
however, he turned square towards the table and his left leg disappeared
from view entirely. The raps, which continued for some time—two or three
minutes—might easily have been produced by his foot. All our hands were
together upon the table.
Slade then took one of the replaced slates from the side table, put a piece
of pencil on it (he had a box full of small fragments on the table), and held
it with his right hand under the table for a short time. He did not keep the
slate close to the table. No result. He then replaced the slate on the
table, and then took from the side table one of the two slates which we had
not inspected (the surface of which was much newer looking), and placed
it on top of the slate No. 1. Then seizing both slates together with his left
hand, he turned them over and laid them on the right arm of Mr. Z.,
slanting away from me. Almost directly the sound as of writing was heard.
Blade's fingers were concealed behind the slate, but I observed the tendons
working in his wrist.
The message was an ordinary general statement signed by the name
Davis. The writing, of course, was already on the under surface of slate
No. 3 when Slade took it from the side table.
Then Slade took the clean slate and held it under the table—then said,
" They're taking it away from me," and stooped and pressed up against the
table as though his arm was being drawn under. Half of the slate then
became visible [at A] facing me to the right, then disappeared, and shortly
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, dr. 295
after struck me at the lower part of my waistcoat and fell to the floor. All
this might easily have been done by Slade with his feet.
He placed the slate on the table again and turned it over. It was clean.
Then he took it in his left hand, and stooped down somewhat to the left. I
then heard a sound as of a slate slipping to the floor, and conjectured from
the position of the upper part of his left arm that he was substituting the
slate which we had just seen to be clean for slate No. 6, which was probably
out of sight and leaning against the leg of the little table. (See The Seybert
Commission on Spiritualism, p. 74.) In making the substitution I suppose
that one of the slates slipped on the floor. However, he brought this slate
(No. 5) to the top of the table, took No. 2 or 4 (I am not sure which) and
placed No. 5 on top of it. Then seizing both slates together with his right
hand, he turned them over and laid them on my left arm slanting away from
me and away from Mr. Z. Almost immediately the sound as of writing
began—but the slates slid along my arm slightly, bringing Slade's fingers in
gentle contact with my arm, and I could feel the motion of a finger or
fingers moving backwards and forwards. Slade also noticed the contact, and
drew the slates up further so that his hand did not touch my arm.
The writing was a general kind of message, signed by T. Z.—the name of
Mr. Z.'s father,—but as Mr. Z., at a sitting ten days before, had been
specially asked by Slade what his father's name was, there was no test. The
two writings were evidently by the same hand.
After this, Slade asked me to write a question on the side of a slate
(No. 2 or 4) remote from himself. I wrote, " Fred, will you give me a test
if you are here ? "
Slade took the slate in his right hand with the question on the under
surface and held it under the table, not close to the leaf. Almost imme
diately the slate rubbed past my left knee, suggesting that Slade was turning
the slate over. I then observed him furtively looking downwards, and he
shortly asked me if I had asked two questions. I replied, No. After
waiting a little longer, he said that he felt that there was no influence
present—the power, he thought, was exhausted, and he could generally tell
when it left him. He thought it was no use sitting any longer. He suggested
that I should have another sitting soon, alone.
(Mr. Z. thought the writing between the slates remarkable, and had no
idea whatever of the trick movements, &c, made by Slade. I explained the
details to him immediately after we left.)
There remained to ascertain the truth of my conjecture concerning slate
No. 5. I requested permission to thoroughly examine the large table, and
liegan by turning it completely over to my right, so that I could see the corner
where I supposed the fifth slate to be. As I did this, Slade carelessly stooped
down, picked up the fifth slate from the floor, close to the foot of the small
table, and laid it by the other slates on the table.
Further, I have proof that Mr. Davey's general methods are easily
discoverable from the reports themselves by persons who have paid
special attention to the production of such phenomena by trickery.
About a year ago I became acquainted with a Mr. W. S. Davis, of New-
York, a printer by profession, who was making himself familiar with
29G Mr. R. Hodgson.
the methods used by fraudulent mediums in rope-tying, slate-writing,
materialisation, and other " physical phenomena." I requested him to
read the accounts of the sittings with Mr. Davey and write me a
description of the methods which he supposed Mr. Davey used. His
descriptions were practically correct throughout, and indeed he gave
additional variations of some of the methods. The only cases where
the reports failed to give him sufficient clues were the book incidents,
where the communication was prepared beforehand and the book was
" forced." Mr. Davis himself has given some sittings which have been
regarded as specially remarkable by various Spiritualists of New York
and Brooklyn, and brief accounts of these have appeared in some
Spiritualistic papers. Mr. Davis informs me that he never claimed
that he was assisted in any of his performances by " departed spirits,"
and as a matter of fact, they were all due to trickery, and he has
explained to me his methods in detail. It may be interesting to compare
the reports given by " Spiritualists " of a sitting with Mr. Davis with
his account of what actually occurred. But I shall first give the
explanation of Mr. Davey's "materialisation" seance which has been
furnished by Mr. Munro, who assisted Mr. Davey, or rather, I should
say, actually produced the phenomena.
The following is the report by Mr. R. of the sitting for materiali
sation :—
On Thursday evening, the 7th October, 1886, I was present at a seance
held by Mr. Davey, at his house. There were in all eight persons, myself
included. We took our seats at 7.30 p.m., round an ordinary dining-room
table (in the dining-room of the house), which, at Mr. Davey's request, we
examined carefully, as also any other objects in the room which demanded
our attention. The door of the room was locked, and I placed the key in my
pocket, it was also sealed with a slip of gummed paper ; the gas was then
turned out, so that we were left in darkness. A musical box was wound up,
and set to play an air, with the object, as I suppose, to enliven the proceedings !
I held Mr. Davey's right hand, his left was held by Mrs. [J.}; the rest
joined hands, so that during the seance a continual chain was formed which
was maintained the whole time. After we had remained some time thus,
various noises as of a shuffling of feet, &c., were heard in different parts of the
room, and I distinctly felt something grasp my right foot ; almost immediately
I was touched on the forehead by a cold hand, which, at Mr. Davey's request,
also touched those that wished it. The musical box was lifted, and although
it was dark I fancied I saw it, surrounded by a pale light, descend through the
air ; it certainly struck me lightly on the side of the head, then it was again
raised, and deposited on the table.
The hand which touched me was cold and clammy ; it evidently belonged
to a most courteous and obliging spirit, for it did exactly what we desired ! and
at my wishing to feel the full palm on the back of my head (so as to ascertain its
shape and size) it rested there for fully three seconds ; it was, however, a
somewhat weird experience ! Various raps were now heard, a gong sounded
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 297
behind my back, and we were told by Mr. Davey to pay attention, as some
thing wonderful was about to take place. Faintly, but gradually growing more
distinct, a bluish white light appeared hovering about our heads ; it gradually
developed more and more till at length we beheld what we were told was the
head of a woman. This apparition was frightful in its ugliness, but so distinct
that everyone could see it. The features were distinct, the cheek bones
prominent, the nose aquiline, a kind of hood covered the head, and the whole
resembled the head of a mummy. After favouring those of the company
who wished to see its full face by turning towards them, it gradually vanished
iu our presence. The next spirit form was more wonderful still ; a thin streak
of light appeared behind Mr. Davey, vanished, appeared again in. another
part of the room, and by degrees developed into the figure of a man. The
extremities were hidden in a kind of mist, but the arms, shoulders, and head
were visible. The figure was that of an Oriental, a thick black beard covered
his face, his head was surrounded by a turban ; in his hands he carried a book
which he occasionally held above his head, glancing now and then from under
neath it. The face came once so near to me that it appeared to be only two
feet from mine. I thus could examine it closely. The eyes were stony and
fixed and never moved once. The complexion was not dusky, but very white ;
the expression was vacant and listless. After remaining in the room for a few
seconds, or rather a minute, the apparition gradually rose, and appeared to
pass clean through the ceiling, brushing it audibly as it passed through. The
seance here terminated ; the gas was turned on again, and everything appeared
the same as when we first sat down ; the door was unlocked, the seal being
found intact. I will mention that during the whole of the seance I held Mr.
Davey's right hand, with but one exception, when it was found necessary for
him to light the gas to see to wind up the musical box, as it had stopped
playing. Nothing was prepared beforehand ; the stance was quite casual ; we
could have sat in any room we wished, and we had full liberty to examine
everything in tho room, even tb the contents of Mr. Davey's pockets, which
were emptied (before beginning the s6ance) by him on the table before our
eyes !
October 8th, 1886. John H. R.
Mr. Munro's Account.
Although Mr. Davey was kind enough to instruct me in the methods of
his slate-writing, I was not present at any of the sittings described in Vol. IV.
of the Proceedings, with the single exception of the materialisation seance,
which is the only one published in which confederacy was employed.
The explanation which I am about to give of that seance may be of in
terest as indicating how much or, I should rather say, how little, accounts of
such phenomena correspond with the facts which actually occur. And the
sitting for materialisation is eminently adapted for this purpose, inasmuch
as the accounts were written so very soon after the sitting ended, two of
them at least having been completed on the same evening. At the same
time I should like to remind the reader that any explanation I can give of
tho phenomena can be but partial. I can only inform him of the mere
tnechameal processes which were employed. A full explanation would involve
a description of the mental attitude of the sitters and of every word and ges
ture of the medium whereby that mental state was altered. This I canned
Z
298 Mr. R. Hodgson.
describe, and yet it is of infinitely greater importance than any of the tricks
and devices used in the manufacture of the spirit forms. The latter might
have been produced by a host of other methods, and the method actually
employed does not appear to me to be a matter of much consequence. It is
only for the reason stated above that I consider its publication of any value.
With slate-writing seances it is quite different, for in them the mechanical
processes—the mere "conjuring"—which can be used are necessarily very
limited. But when we darken the room and keep the investigators in
ignorance of what they are to observe, the possibilities for trickery are
infinitely increased, whilst the control which the medium must exercise over
the thoughts and emotions of his sitters need not be so great. It is not,
therefore, surprising that Mr. Davey himself introduced the accounts of the
sittings for materialisation with a sort of half apology, seeing that the testi
mony for such phenomena is and must be so much inferior to that for slate-
writing. To myself it is even surprising that any explanation should have
been called for in the case of a seance where the facilities for deception were
so great, and it is almost incredible that an investigator of Mr. Wallace's
experience should regard it as of equal or even greater importance than the
slate-writing experiments. Considering the sensational nature of the phe
nomena observed, it is not surprising that the accounts of this sitting show
an even greater discrepancy with fact than do those of the slate-writing
seances, and I think it will be well to indicate first of all a few of the more
important errors.
In the first place, the seance, so far from being the casual affair which Mr.
B. supposed, had, in fact, been carefully arranged beforehand. I had
been staying with Mr. Davey for several days before the sitting, and we had
discussed the details of the materialisation process, and even rehearsed it
through, the night before it was given. Mr. Davey had also given a similar
seance in the spring of the same year.
In the second place, the locking and sealing of the door, so carefully
recorded in all three accounts, was by no means so well calculated to prevent
the entrance of agencies from without as the reporters appear to have
imagined. The process of "locking" the door, which was performed by Mr.
Davey himself, although he subsequently gave the key to Mr. R. , consisted
in first locking and then unlocking it. Sealing a door with a piece of
gummed paper is now a well-known trick. The gummed paper, if properly
adjusted, adheres firmly to the door when it is opened, and, when it is again
shut, presents all the appearances of never having been moved. The
interesting part about the sealing in this case is that the paper was not
properly adjusted, and at the end of the seance, Mr. Davey, noticing that
the gummed paper had fallen down on to the ground, hastily stuck it back
in its place and called Mr. R.'s attention to the fact that the door was still
sealed—a fact to which he and the other sitters readily gave their testimony.
The third point to which I would call especial attention is the exami
nation of the room, with which every one of the three reporters was quite
satisfied, Mrs. J. even going so far as to state " we searched every article of
furniture." In spite of this positive statement, the examination was im
perfectly performed, for in that cupboard beneath the bookstand, which
was situated furthest from the door, were concealed a gong and several other
appliances, including the female spirit herself. Mr. Davey showed his
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 299
sitters that the other cupboard was empty, but diverted their attention from
this one so skilfully, that they were afterwards convinced that they had
examined it also.
I will now describe what took place at the seance, step by stop so far as
I can remember it.
It had been arranged to hold the meeting in the dining-room, and Mr.
R.'s statement, " we could have sat in any room we pleased," is not correct.
Mr. Davey did, indeed, I believe, offer his sitters their choice of rooms.
But had they selected any other room (and there were only two others
which could conveniently have been used for the purpose) he could easily
have found some excuse for rejecting it in favour of the dining-room. There
was no peculiar advantage in this room. It was selected chiefly on account
of its size, and because it was not overcrowded with furniture. At the same
time the cupboard behind the medium's chair was conveniently situated.
With regard to the sitters, four had been expected. The arrival of Mrs.
J. and Miss W. was, as Mrs. J. remarks, quite unexpected. Mr. R. cer
tainly intended to be present, but I am not sure whether he anticipated a
seance. On their entrance into the dining-room, free leave was given the
sitters to search every article of furniture, and I think the search was
pretty well performed until it came to the cupboard under the bookshelf.
From it Mr. Davey diverted attention by emptying out his pockets before
his audience—a proceeding which they did not fail to remember as a con
clusive proof of the completeness of their search.
Mr. Davey now " locked " the door in the manner already described and
the gas was turned down. At the same moment I, who had by this time
found my way into the passage, and could hear everything which was taking
place in the room, turned down the gas outside, in order that no light might
enter the room when the time for my own entry should arrive. A large
musical box was then started, not, however, as Mr. R. supposed, " to enliven
the proceedings," but that it might help with Mr. Davey's shuffling of feet
to cover any noise which I might make in entering the room.
WINDOW.
x X
TABLE.
X
Mre. J. Mr. K.
Mr. D.
x 2
300 Mr, R. Hodgson.
I must now explain that Mr. Davey sat at the end of the table with his
hack turned towards the bookshelf and with the door on his left. Mr. R.
was on the right, Mrs. J. on the left of the "medium," the other sitters,
being seated on either side of the table nearer to the window. Having put
out the gas in the passage I opened the door very slowly and came in
barefooted, closing the door behind me as noiselessly as I could. In so doing
I will not be certain that I was not responsible for one or two of the very
conclusive spirit-raps mentioned in the reports. I now went up to behind
Mr. Davey's chair, and, after tapping him on the back to indicate my safe
arrival, proceeded to raise the musical box and wave it to and fro above the
heads of the sitters, and to make raps in different parts of the room.
Throughout the seance I maintained a position behind Mr. Davey's chair,
never advancing at any time in the direction of the window. The knocks at
the far end of the room and on the ceiling were made with a long stick which
I had brought in with me. Touching the sitters on the face, feet, or hands
was of course easily managed, and, inasmuch as I had rolled up my sleeves
and held my whole hand and forearm in a jug of cold water before coming in,
Mr. R.'s description of the cold clammy hand which touched him was not
purely imaginative.
I next opened the cupboard beneath the bookshelf behind and to the left
of the medium. It contained the gong, which I sounded for some minutes,
and also the first spirit-form, which I afterwards divested of the black cloth
with which it was draped. This spirit is graphically described by Mr. R.
as "an apparition frightful in its ugliness, with cheekbones prominent and
nose aquiline, the whole resembling the head of a mummy." It was prepared
as follows :—A mask was taken and fixed upon a thick piece of cardboard.
Muslin was arranged round the mask, and a thick collar of cardboard coated
with luminous paint encircled the whole. Tho collar had been exposed to
the sun throughout the day, so that when I uncovered the form it was
rendered distinctly visible by the light thrown upon it by the now luminous
collar. This spirit-face is interesting as indicating one method of producing
materialisation phenomena without the aid of an accomplice, for a conjurer
of Mr. Davey's skill would have had but little difficulty in manipulating it
in my absence.
The second spirit was personated by myself. A turban was fixed upon
my head, a theatrical beard covered my chin, muslin drapery hung about my
shoulders. The book from which I read was a portfolio coated inside with
luminous paint. It was concealed in the cupboard, where it lay wrapped up
in black cloth, and when this covering was removed the book gaped a little,
and so gave rise to the thin streak of light which Mr. R. describes.
Before materialising, I mounted up on to the back part of Mr. Davey's
chair, from which position I gained several advantages. At one moment I
could bend forwards so as to appear close to the table in front of the medium,
and at another, by standing upright, I could bring my head close to the
ceiling. Indeed, the range of possible movement is so great, and the effects
so startling, that many people have difficulty in believing the above explana
tion until they have seen the process repeated in a lighted room. My face
and shoulders were rendered visible by the light thrown upon them by the
open "book" which I was supposed to be reading, so that Mr. R. could
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 301
not possibly have seen me when I held it above my head. For the "fixed
and motionless" condition of my eyes I cannot account, the pallor of my
face was due to flour, "the vacant and listless expression " is natural to me.
The statement that the apparition appeared to pass clean through the
ceiling with a scraping noise occurs in all three reports. It is a curious mis
take, founded on a blunder which I made in the acting of my part—a blunder
so serious that at the time I thought I had—in part at any rate—betrayed
the secret of our ghostly methods. When I had, still standing on Mr.
Davey's chair, risen to my whole height, I gradually elevated the " open "
book above my head, shut it and firmly pressed the two sides of the cover
together. But the portfolio had been exposed to the sun all the day and the
cover had in consequence become warped, so that its free margins were bent
away from one another. When I pressed them together, they adhered for
an instant and then burst asunder with a loud report which was mistaken by
the listeners for the brushing of the spirit form against the ceiling.
The seance did not terminate immediately after this, as Mr. R.'s account
seems to suggest, but a very considerable interval elapsed, during which I
slowly found my way out of the room. Mr. Davey then lit the gas in the
ilining-room, whilst I at the same time turned up the gas in the passage
outside and then retreated upstairs—there to remain till the sitters should
depart. I believe the statement that the medium's hands were held con
tinuously throughout the seance except when he was turning on the musical
box or lighting the gas is perfectly correct.
And now I think I have sufficiently explained the methods employed in
this materialisation seance, and the reader has probably already long ago
come to the conclusion that the sitters were in this case peculiarly unscien
tific and ill-suited for the investigation of these phenomena. To have
neglected to lock the door themselves and yet to suppose it had been carefully
locked, to have omitted to search in one of the cupboards and yet to imagine
they had searched " every article of furniture," does indeed appear extraor
dinary neglect and carelessness. And yet I do not think there are many per
sons who would have taken these precautions, simple as they seem, or, if
they had done so, would not have neglected other tests equally important.
After all, their omitting to lock the door themselves was not an important
«rror on the part of the sitters, since nothing would have been easier than
for Mr. Davey to have provided me with a duplicate key, although I will
not be sure whether he had two keys in this particular case.
I may also add that the cupboard, in which the gong and other materiali
sation apparatus were concealed, was only a small side cupboard wholly
Jtidden from view by the door of the large central compartment when the
latter was opened, and it needed a very careful investigation to discern that
it did not form part of the central cupboard itself. The omissions, therefore,
of the sitters are not so absurd as they at first appear. Let the reader also
remember that Mr. Davey had given seances more or less similar to this one
before other sitters, and yet in no case had any suspicion of his modus
operandi entered their heads. I may further mention that in one case I had
assisted in the production of the phenomena (which, however, did not in this
case include materialisation) when the sitting was not held in the medium's
own house.
Mr. R. Hodgson.
'For my own part, I think that the three published reports of this sitting
are by no means extraordinary for their inaccuracy, and this conclusion is
borne out by a reference to other reports of seances—reports by both sceptics
and Spiritualists. Except in those rare cases in which I was myself present
at the sitting, it is impossible for me to say where exactly the misstatements
came in. But in most of the accounts which I have read there are grave
omissions, in many there are positive statements about facts, which the
writer could not possibly have known, and in almost all there is a confusion
between the phenomena observed and the inferences drawn from those
phenomena. And this is true even of the accounts written by trained
scientific men—even of what I may call the classic literature of Spiritualism.
The errors of the reports appear even less striking when we take into
account the fact that the accuracy of a report naturally varies inversely with
the miraculous and sensational nature of the phenomena. If reports of
slate-writing seances are full of mistakes, those of materialisation seances
must be much more so. Indeed, I doubt whether the most scientific and
unemotional of men would be capable of giving an accurate account of every
detail they had seen after having been in the presence of the " figure
frightful in its ugliness," or of that other form with the stony and fixed eyes
which Mr. R. describes. But, even so, the results are extraordinary, unless
one recognises their true explanation, which is to bo found not in the in
feriority of the sitters but in the superiority of the medium.
The methods devised by Mr. Davey were simple enough—so simple that one
is astonished at his boldness in using them. But, as I have already pointed
out, the mere mechanical means which he used were nothing, the personality
of the medium was everything. Had silence been maintained throughout
the seance, success would have been impossible. Had Mr. Davey and
myself changed parts it would have been equally impossible. There are
few men, indeed, who with such simple contrivances could have produced so
amazing an effect on the minds of the sitters. Professional mediums would
probably laugh at the clumsiness of his methods. But he had a power which
they lack—a power which more than compensated for any want of conjuring
dexterity or experience in deceiving. He had such a control over the
sitters' minds that he could divert their attention almost whenever he
pleased ; he could persuade them they had seen what they had not seen ; he
could make their very tests a trap into which they should themselves fall.
And Mr. Wallace is quite right in supposing that this seance cannot be
explained as a simple mechanical or sleight of hand trick. But the extra
something which is wanting is not Spiritualism, it has no connection with
Spiritualism. It is nothing else than the extraordinary genius of Mr.
Davey.
Let us now turn to an account by Spiritualists of a sitting with
Mr. W. S. Davis, to whom I have referred above (p. 295). Prior to
his giving sittings himself, Mr. Davis had been very aggressive in
denouncing bogus mediums, and, moreover, not a few persons were made
aware that he had no " mediumistic " power at all. Further, the Xew
York Herald, of June 13th, 1891, contained an article on the subject
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 303
explaining what Mr. Davis proposed to do, and quoting some letters
written by Mr. Davis to a reporter in proof of its assertions. Mr.
Davis wrote, inter alia :—
The great argument with the Spiritualists is this :—Are we deceived ?
Are we not as capable of detecting trickery as you are ? We are shrewd in
business matters, why should we be less shrewd in this ? . . . Now.
my object in giving these stances is to get evidence that people can be
deceived very easily. . . . All that I do is trickery, and I am doing just
exactly what all oftheir famous mediums have boon and are now doing.
This article and another warning article which appeared in The
Banner of Light, a Spiritualistic paper, caused considerable disquiet
among the Spiritualists who were endorsing Mr. Davis's manifestations
as genuine. Finally, Mr. Davis " expressed a desire to give a seance
under strictly test conditions and let a committee judge." This offer
was accepted. In the following account I abridge from the statement
made by Mr. Davis :—
The date for the test seance was July 23rd, 1891, and only 15 persons
were permitted to attend. The seance was a success, and congratulations
were plentiful. The following report appeared in The Better Way of
August l5th, 1891 :—
"An Endorsement.
" To the Editor of The Better Wag.
" Dear Sir,—We, the undersigned, tested the powers of W. S. Davis
on Thursday evening, July 23rd, 1891, by applying such conditions as, in our
judgment, absolutely precluded the possibility of fraud. The medium sub
mitted to severe tying. The only door leading into the seance-room was
locked, sealed, and carefully watched. The medium permitted us to put him
into a large bag so that not even his head was exposed, and the sealing, &c,
was done by us, and not by confederates. We practically had charge of the
seance from beginning to end, and there were no friends of the medium
present not equally known to us. The room was carefully examined before
the seance, and during the sCance the cabinet was opened for examination at
very frequent intervals. Under these stringent conditions wonderful mani
festations of spirit-power were given without delay, and immediately after
the cabinet curtain was drawn in each case.
"It is worthy of note that writing was obtained on a slate which was
locked up in a box and doubly secured by the liberal application of sealing
wax, when the medium did not touch the box or slate.
" James B. Bogert, Elizabeth F. Kurth, Mrs. M. T. Morris, Hermann
Handrich, Wm. C. Coss, Elizabeth A. Smith, John M. Coombs, Eleanor
Dailey, Elizabeth S. Davis, Alexander S. Davis, Louis Sherk, W. P. Munroe,
Mrs. W. P. Munroe, Margaret Smith."
The following report also appeared in The Progressive TJnnker for August
8th, 1891, and an account by Mr. Handrich was published in Psyehische
Stwtien for October, 1891
"The undersigned, a correspondent forthe Psychische Studien, of Leipsig,
Germany, and a number of prominent Spiritualists and mediums of Brooklyn,
304 Mr. R. Hodgson.
received invitations from Mr. W. S. Davis to attend a seance under test
conditions, in order to convince his friends of the genuineness of his
mediumistic gifts. The handsome residence of Mrs. M. Towers, a lady
highly esteemed by her friends, and of prominent social standing, had been
placed at the disposition of Mr. Davis and members of the circle. . As I have
previously mentioned in a letter addressed to Mr. Davis (in relation to a
former seance' which was held in the same premises), that confederates, if
any, could find an easy access behind the curtain which fenced off a corner
of the large sitting-room, I was requested by the medium to seal the only
door leading to the room from the vestibule of the house, to which I gladly
consented. Double walls, trap doors, and other hiding places are out of
question ; notwithstanding, I convinced myself by ocular inspection, and
guided by Mr. Bogert, Inspector of Buildings. Next, I assisted in tying
the wrists of the medium, and I know positively that it was not legerdemainly
done, as the blood hardly could circulate under the firm pressure of a hard
rope which was used for this purpose. A few minutes after the medium took
his seat in the corner, hidden by the curtain which separated him from the
spectators, brilliant sparks and lights appeared in front of it ; no electric
press-the-button affair, but genuine phenomena of occult power. Bells were
ringing ; one of them, and likewise a slate, were thrown over the curtain,
which extended in height only about four feet from the floor. Mr. Wicks,
the master of ceremonies, drew back the curtain. The medium extended his
hands, which by close examination and bright light bore witness that they
had not been untied, as the rope actually cut itself into the flesh, and the
impressions of its texture were distinctly visible on the skin of the upper
part of the wrists after the rope was cut through with a knife.
" Unbound, the medium again sat himself in the corner. The curtain
was drawn ; a long rope, besides the small one, was handed over the curtain
by Mr. Wicks, and a few minutes after it was drawn back again and the
medium was securely tied to the chair. Remaining in this position, his coat
was taken off and put on again ; musical instruments wero played, accom
panying the songs of the audience, and other manifestations witnessed, whilst
the rope, after repeated examinations, proved not to have been tampered
with in any way or manner, of which I gladly and conscientiously bear
witness, as I convinced myself of the fact.
"The next test to which the medium submitted, after having been delivered
of his fetters by the same occult intelligence which bound him to the chair,
was to be put into a bag. I also assisted in this operation, and after the
bag was shut and sealed over the medium's head, I knew that there was no
other exit for him except by getting out where he was put in. In this
position the medium was placed on his chair in the corner, and with him a
small wooden chest containing an unprepared clean slate. The chest was
thoroughly examined by me and others ; the padlock, the cover, and buttons
sealed up, and then placed in the corner where the medium was seated.
After a short pause, Mr. Wicks and myself got the medium out of the bag
:md the slate out of the chest, and found written thereon : ' We have done
enough. H.' (H. stands for Haicidoka, the nom de phtme of the medium's
control.) The seals on the door, padlock, bag, and chest were found un
broken, to which I testify without fear or favour.
"Hermann Handrich."
Mr. Davey'8 Imitations by Conjuring, &c. 305
I will now describe just exactly what did occur at the test seance.
After the company was seated, I took a seat in the "cabinet." Mr. Wicks
asked the people to sing. While they were singing "Nearer, my God, to Thee,"
Mr. Wicks extinguished the light and handed to me, in the darkness, an
electric battery, to which was connected by a wire a small incandescent lamp.
Lights were shown by "pressing the button," although Mr. Handrich states
that such was not the case. Various results were produced by moving the
lamp from one place to another, by short and long pressure on the button,
and by wrapping different coloured tissue paper around the lamp, &c.
Mr. Wicks then gave me a " transparency " which had been hidden
behind a largo picture hanging on the wall. The lamp was placed inside of
the thin box. The button was pressed and a life-sized hand was shown.
This was the end of that part of the show, and in a few minutes Mr. Wicks
asked if a little singing would increase the forces, and was answered by two
raps, meaning "don't know." Being anxious to get more phenomena they
sang, which enabled Mr. W. to get the lamp and "transparency" away from
me without being heard.
After the room was lighted, the cabinet curtain was removed and I came
out of the pretended trance and stated to the company that conditions seemed
to be favourable and that we would commence to test matters.
Mr. Handrich and Mr. Bogert fastened the door shut by locking it and
sticking strips of paper from the door to the door-case with sealing wax. . . .
The " first test " consisted of being tied by occult agency, having my coat
removed without tampering with the ropes, and permitting the company to
examine the fastenings as long and as often as desired.
After I got well " under control " Mr. Wicks hid me from view by drawing
the curtain. He then threw over the curtain a long and a short rope. The
short rope was not used, but was substituted by another rope carefully knotted,
&c. This prepared rope is well arranged, it generally requiring considerable
time to make it. Braided cotton sash cord is used. The knots are made
when the rope is wet and are held together by driving in soft smooth iron
nails which are filed off close and hidden by working the rope over them.
This is the " Spirit Tie Harness." I got it from Frank Vanderbilt, an old-
time medium who flourished when the Eddy family, Eva Fay, the Davenport
Brothers, and many others were in the business. . . .
In my tie the principal knot is in plain view and people think it is the last
knot tied and they know it is a slip knot. They never for a minute seem to
think that any other knot is of any importance. After a very careful
examination of the ropes it is generally settled that the trick is in my coat, if
the investigator happens to be of the opinion that it is a trick.
In talking with me about this particular manifestation, the Spiritualists
argue in this way : " Kellar and others do this in the theatres, but they do
not believe that Kellar could do it under test conditions unless he is a
medium—and where is the proof that he is not a medium ! "
The next " test " consisted in permitting the company to bind my wrists
together with stout • twine. ' When I announced that I would submit to this
test, Mr. Handrich took from his pccket a thin copper wire covered with
cloth, and asked permission to bind me with it. I said certainly, and walked
30G Mr. R. Hodgson.
over to him remarking that it was immaterial to mo who did the tying or
brought the string. He said it isn't string, it is wire. I said I thought that
metals of any kind would produce very uncomfortable sensations in my wrists,
as wire would act as a conductor of electricity. He apologised and said that
the twine would serve the purpose fully as well. ... I then bared my
left arm and asked Mr. Bogert to tie the twine around the wrist. He did the
tying so loose that I could have pulled my hand through. I told him to
untie it and make a better job of it. He declined to do so, saying that ho
had implicit confidence in me and would not stop the circulation of blood for
anybody. (You see he would have been as good as a confederate, so far as
the tying is concerned, and it would not have been necessary for me to resort
to the regular trick of stealing slack either.) I pretended to show a little
temper, and said it was a test soance, and that I wanted everything done
thoroughly. Mr. Bogert then tied the cord around my wrist very tightly,—
the knot being on the inside of the wrist. I presented my left arm with the
palm of the hand up. I then went to another person and had another knot
added to the ones Mr. Bogert had made—I went to other persons, allowing
each to make more knots. All of this looked as though I was being well
tied, but my real object in going from one to another to have more knots
made was to take a turn around my wrist with one end of the twine. This
is sleight of hand, and is not noticed when done properly. One end of the
twine is wound around the wrist after the last knot on the left wrist has been
made, just as I am in the act of telling a person to take the other end and
pull on it ; then after taking the hitch on the first end I ask another person
to pull on that end. Then I put my right arm exactly over my left and
request the two persons to bring the two ends together and tie them tightly.
Then I go from one to another, asking each person to add a knot. Then the
knots are fastened with sealing wax. I then take a seat in the cabinet and
sit there in full view until I get " under control," then the curtain is drawn.
I immediately turn my arms in opposite directions, which takes the turn out
of the rope, and my hands are free. I can take my hands out of and get
back into the fastenings with great quickness, which I did on this occasion.
The next test consisted of being tied up in a bag. The end of the bag is
gathered together by passing a twine through brass eyelet-holes and drawing
the bag together by pulling the two ends of the string. When the bag is
being drawn up over my head, I catch one of the loops of the twine and pull
in as much slack as I can. This is similar to Mrs. Martin's neck-tie ex
posed by you [At a rope-tying materialisation seance which I attended in
New York.—R.H.], but is much better, since I do not have to close a door
to pull in slack. Mr. Wicks is prepared to erase any marks put on the
ropes, and after the fastenings are pronounced intact he immediately cuts the
rope in a number of places while he holds the bag up and while I am getting;
the extra rope in my pocket. The bag tie knot is also fastened with wax.
This looks good to the audience and it apparently increases the value of the
test, but the sealmg is really a help to the trick, as it makes it impossible to
untie the knot after the performance, and the string has to be cut.
The next "test " was to get writing on a slate locked up in a box while I
was in the bag. You should have seen them examine the slate. They
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, &'c. 307
washed it very carefully ; held it against a light to burn off a possible pre
pared message written in sympathetic inks. Little or no attention was paid
to the box. The slate was put into the box. The box was then closed and
locked. The key-hole of the lock was covered by a piece of paper which was
fastened with sealing wax. Several strips of paper were wound around the
padlock and fastened with sealing wax. Then the lid and box were fastened
together by sticking paper, &c.
After I got " under control " again (in the bag) and while they were sing
ing another hymn, the lights were lowered, the cabinet curtain drawn, and
the box was put into the cabinet. All that I had to do was to get my head
and arms out of the bag, and push in one end of the box and take the slate
out. [Here Mr. Davis describes the trick-box, with diagrams.—R. H.]
The most singular thing in connection with this "test seance" is the
fact that the tests were all " forced " and nobody thought of it. But why
should they have thought of it since nearly everything called "tests," so far
as public mediums are concerned, are forced I . . . • The manifesta
tions occurring while I was tied in the bag, &c., consisted of performing on
the banjo, flute, violin, bones, writing on slates, exhibiting tambourine, bells,
and hands over the curtain, &c
Mr. Davis, at my request, repeated the above performances in detail
before a group of our members, including myself, in New York, and
after each performance he illustrated his methods in full light to the
complete satisfaction of all the persons present. Mr. Davis informs,
me that he and Mr. Wicks "will undertake to explain the methods of,
and reproduce the performance of, any slate-writing, fire-test, rope-
tying, etherealising, and materialising medium who will go before a
committee of your Society and permit us to be present."
Returning now to the accounts which I have given of Mr. Davey's
methods,—in connection with the statement made by Mr. Wallace that
unless all Mr. Davey's phenomena can be explained by " trick," he will
be confirmed in his " belief that Mr. Davey was really a medium as
well as a conjurer,"—what is the value of the testimony to such
phenomena given by persons who are in the position of Mr. Wallace,
unable to distinguish between the avowed medium and the avowed and
proved conjurer 1 Many other Spiritualists have apparently held the
same position. Thus, Mr. Dixon, writing to The Spiritualist in 1875,
said that he was " thoroughly nonplussed " by Dr. Lynn's cabinet
performance.
Unless the spirits did "it," I am utterly at a loss how to account for
it, and my only way out of the difficulty, when questioned by my friends,
was to claim this part of the performance as a genuine piece of Spiritual
ism. ... I am sure the cause of Spiritualism would gain immensely
if Lynn's seance [?] could be explained. . . . If I had not paid my
money for an evening with Dr. Lynn I should have come away from it as a
308 Mr. R. Hodgson.
Spiritualist seance with the most perfect assurance that the manifestations
-were genuine.
Mr. Gledstanes, writing in the same year, 1875, points to the prob
ability of the medium's doubles doing the feats, and strongly suggests
that Maskelyne and Cook project arms from their bodies ! Mr.
Coleman, writing in 1874, says :—
All inquirers who desire to study the psychological character of
spiritual manifestations should be recommended to visit Messrs. M. and C.
[Maskelyne and Cook], who have gone on practising them with a persever
ance worthy of a better aim, and who are, in my opinion, the best of living
mediums.
Somewhat similarly, Mr. Wallace in 1877 describes a performance
of Dr. Lynn's at the Royal Aquarium, including a cabinet trick, and
the moving and floating of a table about the stage, two feet from the
floor. He says :—
Your readers must be told that Dr. Lynn is not the performer ; but a
gentleman who is introduced as "a medium—a real medium " ; and I must
say I believe him to be one.
A week later " M.A. (Oxon.)" added his testimony as follows, in a
passage which I quoted in my previous article :—
I am glad to see that Mr. Alfred Wallace agrees, after seeing Lynn's
medium, with the substance of my letter in your issue of July 6th. Given
mediumship and shamelessness enough so to prostitute it, and conjuring can,
no doubt, be made sufficiently bewildering. It is sheer nonsense to treat
such performances as Maskelyne's, Lynn's, and some that have been shown
at the Crystal Palace, as " common conjuring." Mr. Wallace positively says,
" If you think it is all juggling, point out exactly where the difference lies
between it and mediumistic phenomena."
It is not surprising that statements of this kind should have called
forth such an emphatic remonstrance as the following from Mr. Coates,
who at the same time professed his belief in Spiritualism :—
The man who cannot distinguish between mediumship and conjuring,
though he be a doctor of law, science, medicine, or divinity—his evidence is
shaky, his theories not worth the paper they are written on, and his advocacy
the cause had better be without.
Mr. Wallace, however, does not seem to have made any advance
since 1877 in his discrimination between conjuring and alleged medium-
ship of the kind we are considering. Why ? Is it not obviously because
no discrimination can be made 1 And accordingly many Spiritualists
continue to call conjurers " mediums." A recent instance occurs in a
communication to Light for October 24th, 1891, by " T. W." He
writes that " we may say, without prevarication, that the conjurers
have utilised physical Spiritism.'*' He refers to a coin trick by Bosco,
and apparently regards it as involving " mediumship." (It was
probably a variation of the coin trick described in Modern Magic,
Mr. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring, d-c. 309
p. 161.) He also mentions the "famous conjurer," M. Duprez,
and says : " He must be a powerful physical medium. I saw his
performance some years ago, and ... I believe that there is
scarcely a ' trick ' performed in which he is not aided or supplanted
by unseen force." Now, statements like these, absurd as they seem to
persons familiar with conjuring operations, do not originate simply and
merely from ignorance of conjuring, and the remedy is not, simply and
merely, to become acquainted with certain trick-devices.i The remedy
for such absurdity is to learn that an uninitiated witness cannot
describe to himself the real conditions under which the feats were
performed, because his powers of observation and memory are inade
quate for the purpose. He may rightly conclude that under such and
such conditions the feats are inexplicable by conjuring, but he wrongly
concludes that the conditions were as he describes them.
The plain result from our investigation is that the great bulk of the
testimony to the " physical " marvels of Modern Spiritualism is not
entitled to serious consideration as affording any evidence of super
normal phenomena. I may conclude with a warning which I venture
to give specially to our members in America, viz., that nearly all pro
fessional mediums form a gang of vulgar tricksters who are more or
less in league with one another. Associated with this combination,
here and there, are certain other persons who either have been, or
intend to be, professional mediums, and who are equally untrust
worthy. These tricksters are continually deceiving fresh groups of
uninitiated observers of their performances, and I frequently receive
i0( coursB a knowledge of trick-devices ia likely to make a witness hesitate in-
many cases before concluding that a certain "phenomenon" was not produced by
ordinary means. But it sometimes acts the other way, especially if the witness
thinks that he is already an expert. The well-known conjurer Kellar was not
familiar with special "slate-writing" methods when he was in India in 1882, and
Eglinton was able to deceive him. Kellar afterwards changed his opinion as to
Eglinton's phenomena when he became familiar with the methods. Yet even at
this later date, he was unable, in conversation with me, to offer any explanation
of the production of writing between slates screwed together and sealed, kc, as
described above, though he did not suppose it was other than a trick. Similarly
it seems to me quite likely that an expert in the different trick-methods of open
ing sealed envelopes might be baffled by the trick described as follows in Revela
tions of a Spirit-Medium, pp. 178-9 :—
"But the smoothest thing in the sealed letter reading, and the one that has.
puzzled the people for years, is usually done in connection with 'slate-writing.'
The ' sitter ' is furnished with a heavy white envelope, of small size, and a white
card of the size of an ordinary visiting card. He is requested to write the name
of a spirit friend on the card, and to write one or not more than two questions
with it. After he has written as requested, he is instructed to place the card in
the envelope with the writing next the smooth side and away from the glue. This
being done, he is furnished with letter-wax with which he seals the seams to
prevent the envelope being opened.
"The ' medium ' now takes his scat at the table opposite his sitter and near a
310 Mr. B. Hodgson.
accounts of them which, I need hardly say, are entirely worthless for
the purposes of our investigation. It is not from the professional
mediums —so numerous in the United States—for "slate-writing,"
" materialisation," and kindred performances, that we can look for any
enlightenment whatever, on the positive side, in the course of Psychical
Research.
.window. Placing the envelope on a 6lato he thrusts it beneath the table. After
sitting long enough to do his work, raps are heard on the slate, and, withdraw
ing it, he hands it to the ' sitter.' The envelope still lies on the slate, and there
is no evidence of its having been touched. The seals are intact, and there is nob
a mark or mar on it.
"On the slate is written the replies to his questions, and the name of tho
spirit addressed is signed at the bottom of the message."
The expert in opening letters would rightly conclude that the envelope had
not been opened, and if he did not allow a margin for hi* ignorance of special
devices, he might be disposed to attribute the phenomenon to some "clairvoyant"
power.
"In order to perform this trick, do just as the ' medium ' did up to the time
he placed or held the slate beneath the table. Instead of holding it there with
your hand, slip one corner between your leg and the seat of the chair. Thus you
are holding it by sitting on it. Your hand is now free to do as you choose with.
Your ' sitter ' cannot see your movements, for the table is interposed. Put your
fingers into the ticket pocket of your coat and bring out a small sponge that is
saturated with alcohol ; dampen the envelope over the card and you can easily
read the name and question. Write the answer and sign the name addressed, and
your ' sitter ' will be ' paralysed ' with astonishment.
"Nothing will serve to dampen the envelope but alcohol. Nothing else will
allow of your reading the writing on the enclosed card, and nothing else will dry
out quickly enough and leave absolutely no traces of any manipulation. Water
will not dry out quick enough, and when it dots dry leaves the envelope shrunken
where it was applied, thus leading your ' sitter ' to suspect that you have not
played fair."
Record of a Haunted House. 311
III.
RECORD OF A HAUNTED HOUSE.
By Miss R. C. Morton.
Prefatory Note.
[The first intimation which I received of the series of phenomena
described below was in a letter received in December, 1884, from Mr. J. W.
Graham, now Principal of Dalton Hall, Manchester. Mr. Graham had heard
an account from the gentleman mentioned below as Captain Morton ; had
written this account out from memory, and had got it revised by Captain and
Miss Morton. This account, and Miss Morton's letters to Miss Campbell,
which begin with the first appearance of the figure, are the earliest written
records. Captain Morton was for a time unwilling to give further accounts,
lest the house, which belonged to a friend of his, should again become
depreciated in value ; as it appears from Miss Morton's record that it has
previously been. But on May 1st, 1886, he permitted me to call upon him ;
and from that date onwards I visited him at intervals and took notes of what
he told me. I also saw Miss Morton and Miss E. Morton, and I interviewed
at their own homes Mrs. Twining, a charwoman, and Mrs. Brown, a former
parlourmaid. In this case it is observable that the phenomena as seen or
heard by all the witnesses were very uniform in character—even in the
numerous instances where there had been no previous communication
between the percipients. I have found no discrepancy in the independent
testimonies, when collected, with the unimportant exception of General A.'s
inability or unwillingness to recall one incident, which was already included
in Mr. Graham's first account, soon after its occurrence, and six years before
General A., an old man, was asked to repeat it.
Captain Morton's reluctance to allow the evidence to be collected until
the haunting had ceased—a reluctance based on consideration for the owner
of the house—has thus done less harm than might have been feared. It
must be added that Captain M. and the members of his family in general,
while feeling little scientific interest in the apparition, were unusually free
from superstitious fears. Miss Morton, whose account is given below, is a
lady of scientific training, now preparing to be a physician ; and her
narrative has received no accretions since I first heard it. The name
Morton is substituted for the real family name. With that exception the
names and initials are the true ones.—F.W.H.M.]
The house is a typical modern residence, square and commonplace
in appearance. It is only separated from the road in front by railings
with high gates and a short carriage-sweep. On one side, but com
pletely detached, is another similar residence ; on the other side runs a
cross road, shut out from the house by the small orchard, referred to
in the account, and by the garden, which also extends some way at the
312 Miss R. C. Morton.
back, being altogether of a very fair size. At the end of the garden
are stabling and a small cottage, neither of which is in present use.
The whole is in thoroughly good repair ; neither rats nor mice have
ever been seen in the house, and there are no owls in the neighbour
hood to account for any of the sounds heard.
It was built about the year 1860, on a site occupied by a market
garden ; while yet unfinished it was bought from the builders by the
first occupant, Mr. S., an Anglo-Indian, who lived in it for about 16
years. During this time, in the month of August, year uncertain, he
lost his wife, to whom he was passionately attached, and to drown his
grief took to drinking.
About two years later, Mr. S. married again. His second wife, a
Miss I. H., was in hopes of curing him of his intemperate habits,
but instead she also took to drinking, and their married life was em
bittered by constant quarrels, frequently resulting in violent scenes.
The chief subjects of dispute were the management of the children
(two girls, and either one or two boys, all quite young) of the first
Mrs. S., and the possession of her jewellery, to preserve which for
her children, Mr. S. had some of the boards in the small front sitting-
room [c] taken up by a local carpenter and the jewels inserted in the
receptacle so formed. Finally, a few months before Mr. S.'s death, on
the 14th July, 1876, his wife separated from him and went to live in
Clifton. She was not present at the time of his death, nor, as far as is.
known, was she ever at the house afterwards.
She died on the 23rd September, 1878, and her remains were
brought back to the town to be interred in a churchyard, about a
quarter of a mile from the house in which she had lived.
After Mr. S.'s death his affairs were found to be much involved,
and the house was sold as soon as a purchaser could be found. It was
bought by Mr. L., an elderly gentleman, who, after thoroughly
doing up the house, which was in a very dirty state, went there to live,
with his wife, a lady of about his own age ; two sons were there from
time to time, but never for long together.
Old Mr. L. died rather suddenly within 6 months of going into the
house, and, rather a curious coincidence, in the same small sitting-room
(marked c) in which Mr. S. had also died, and where the jewels had
been hidden, but in which the figure has never been seen.
Mrs. L. the widow (still alive) moved into a smaller house, very
soon after her husband's death, and [ ] remained empty for some
years—probably four.
During this time there is no direct evidence of haunting, but
when inquiry was made later on much hearsay evidence was brought
forward : for example, an old job gardener, who often worked at the
house opposite, is said to have frequently seen the figure of a tall lady
Record, oj a ffayinted ffome, 313
in black in the garden of [ ]. This old man was on inquiry
found to be dead and his widow could not be traced.
A lady (Mrs. P.), who had at one time resided in the same town,
and after an absence of some years returned there to live, was met
by me at a friend's house, and expressed great interest in the
apparition, which she said seemed to be identical with one seen in the
.same house shortly after the death of Mrs. S. After the lapse of time
it was, however, found impossible to trace this story to its source,
I was also told by a friend that during the summer of 1879 or
1880, the house was offered to a lady at a rental of £60, which is less
than half of what is now asked and given. In April, 1882, the house
was let by the representatives of the late Mr. L. to Captain Morton,'
and it is during his tenancy (not yet terminated) that the appearances
recorded have taken place.
The family consists of Captain M. himself ; his wife, who is a great
invalid, neither of whom saw anything ; a married daughter, Mrs^
K., then about 26, who was only a visitor from time to time,
sometimes with, but more often without, her husband ; 4 unmarried
daughters, myself, then aged 19, who was the chief percipient and
now give the chief account of the apparition ; E. Morton, then
aged 18 ; L. and M. Morton, then 15 and 13 ; 2 sons, one of 16, who
was absent during the greater part of the time when the apparition
was seen; the other, then 6 years old.
My father took the house in March, 1882, none of us having
then heard of anything unusual about the house. We moved in
towards the end of April, and it was not until the following June that
I first saw the apparition.
I had gone up to my room, but was not yet in bed, when I heard
someone at the door, and went to it, thinking it might be my mother.
On opening the door, I saw no one ;- but on going a few steps along the
passage, I saw the figure of a tall lady, dressed in black, standing at
the head of the stairs. After a few moments she descended the stairs,
and I followed for a short distance, feeling curious what it could be.
I had only a small piece of candle, and it suddenly burnt itself out ;
and being unable to see more, I went back to my room.
The figure was that of a tall lady, dressed in black of a soft woollen
material, judging from the slight sound in moving. The face was
hidden in a handkerchief held in the right hand. This is all I noticed
then ; but on further occasions, when I was able to observe her more
closely, I saw the upper part of the left side of the forehead, and
a little of the hair above. Her left hand was nearly hidden by her
sleeve and a fold of her dress. As she held it down a portion of a
widow's cuff was visible on both wrists, so that the whole impression
was that of a lady in widow's weeds. There was no cap on the head
Y
314 Miss R. C. Morton.
but a general effect of blackness suggests a bonnet, with long veil or a.
hood.
During the next two years—from 1882 to 1884—I saw the figure
about half a dozen times ; at first at long intervals, and afterwards at
shorter, but I only mentioned these appearances to one friend, who did.
not speak of them to anyone.
During this period, as far as we know, there were only 3 appear
ances to anyone else.
1. In the summer of 1882 to my sister, Mrs. K., when the figure
was thought to be that of a Sister of Mercy who had called at the
house, and no further curiosity was aroused. She was coming down
the stairs rather late for dinner at 6.30, it being then quite light, when,
she saw the figure cross the hall in front of her, and pass into the
drawing-room. She then asked the rest of us, already seated at
dinner, " Who was that Sister of Mercy whom I have just seen going
into the drawing-room 1 " She was told there was no such person, and
a servant was sent to look ; but the drawing-room was empty, and she
was sure no one had come in. Mrs. K. persisted that she had seen a,
tall figure in black, with some white about it ; but nothing further was
thought of the matter.
2. In the autumn of 1883 it was seen by the housemaid about 10
p.m., she declaring that someone had got into the house, her description
agreeing fairly with what I had seen ; but as on searching no one was
found, her story received no credit.
3. On or about December 18th, 1883, it was seen in the drawing-
room by my brother and another little lxiy. They were playing
outside on the terrace, when they saw the figure in the drawing-room
close to the window, and ran in to see who it could be that was crying
so bitterly. They found no one in the drawing-room, and the parlour
maid told them that no one had come into the house.
After the first time, I followed the figure several times downstairs,
into the drawing-room, where she remained a variable time, generally
standing to the right hand side of the bow window. From the draw
ing-room she went along the passage towards the garden door, where
she always disappeared.
The first time I spoke to her was on the 29th January, 1884. "I
opened the drawing-room door softly and went in, standing just by it.
She came in past me and walked to the sofa and stood still there, so I
went up to her and asked her if I could help her. She moved, and I
thought she was going to speak, but she only gave a slight gasp and
moved towards the door. Just by the door I spoke to her again, but
she seemed as if she were quite unable to speak. She walked into the.
hall, then by the side door she seemed to disappear as before." (Quoted
from a letter written on January 31st.) In May and June, 1884, I
Record of a Haunted House. 315
tried some experiments, fastening strings with marine glue across the
stairs at different heights from the ground—of which I give a more
detailed account later on.
I also attempted to touch her, but she always eluded me. It was
not that there was nothing there to touch, but that she always seemed
to be beyond me, and if followed into a corner, simply disappeared.
During these two years the only noises I heard were those of slight
pushes against my bedroom door, accompanied by footsteps ; and if I
looked out on hearing these sounds, I invariably saw the figure. "Her
footstep is very light, you can hardly hear it, except on the linoleum,
and then only like a person walking softly with thin boots on."
(Letter on January 31st, 1884.) The appearances during the next
two months—July and August, 1884—became much more frequent;
indeed they were then at their maximum, from which time they seem
gradually to have decreased, until now they seem to have ceased.
Of these two months I have a short record in a set of journal
letters written at the time to a friend. On July 21st I find the
following account. " I went into the drawing-room, where my father
and sisters were sitting, about 9 in the evening, and sat down on a
couch close to the bow window. A few minutes after, as I sat reading,
I saw the figure come in at the open door, cross the room and take up
a position close behind the couch where I was. I was astonished that
no one else in the room saw her, as she was so very distinct to me.
My youngest brother, who had before seen her, was not in the room.
She stood behind the couch for about half an hour, and then as usual
walked to the door. I went after her, on the excuse of getting a book,
and saw her pass along the hall, until she came to the garden door,,
where she disappeared. I spoke to her as she passed the foot of the
stairs, but she did not answer, although as before she stopped and
seemed as though about to speak." On July 31st, some time after I had
gone up to bed, my second sister E., who had remained downstairs
talking in another sister's room, came to me saying that someone had
passed her on the stairs. I tried then to persuade her that it was one
of the servants, but next morning found it could not have been so, as
none of them had been out of their rooms at that hour, and E.'s more
detailed description tallied with what I had already seen.
On the night of August 1st, I again saw the figure. I heard the
footsteps outside on the landing about 2 a.m. I got up at once, and
went outside. She was then at the end of the landing at the top of
the stairs, with her side view towards me. She stood there some
minutes, then went downstairs, stopping again when she reached the
hall below. I opened the drawing-room door and she went in, walked
across the room to the couch in the bow window, stayed there a
little, then came out of the room, went along the passage, and dis
y2
316 Miss R, C. Morton,
appeared by the garden door. I spoke to her again, but she did not
answer.
On the night of August 2nd the footsteps were heard by my three
sisters and by the cook, all of whom slept on the top landing—-also by
my married sister, Mrs. K., who was sleeping on the floor below. They
all said the next morning that they had heard them very plainly pass
and repass their doors. The cook was a middle-aged and very sensible
person ; on my asking her the following morning if any of the servants
had been out of their rooms the night before, after coming up to bed,
she told me that she had heard these footsteps before, and that she had
seen the figure on the stairs one night when going down to the kitchen
to fetch hot water after the servants had come up to bed. She described
it as a lady in widow's dress, tall and slight, with her face hidden in a
handkerchief held in her right hand. Unfortunately we have since
lost sight of this servant ; she left us about a year afterwards on her
mother's death, and we cannot now trace her. She also saw the figure
outside the kitchen windows on the terrace-walk, she herself being in
the kitchen ; it was then about 1 1 in the morning, but having no note
of the occurrence, I cannot now remember whether this appearance was
subsequent to the one above mentioned.
These footsteps are very characteristic, and are not at all like those
of any of the people in the house ; they are soft and rather slow, though
decided and even. My sisters would not go out on the landing after
hearing them pass, nor would the servants, but each time when I have
gone out after hearing them, I have seen the figure there.
On August 5th I told my father about her and what we had seen
and heard. He was much astonished, not having seen or heard anything
himself at that time—neither then had my mother, but she is slightly
deaf, and is an invalid.
He made inquiries of the landlord (who then lived close by) as to
whether he knew of anything unusual about the house, as he had
himself lived in it for a short time, but he replied that he had only
been there for three months, and had never seen anything unusual.
On August 6th, a neighbour, General A., who lived opposite, sent
his son to inquire after my married sister, as he had seen a lady crying
in our orchard, which is visible from the road. He had described her
to his son, and afterwards to us, as a tall lady in black, and a bonnet
with a long veil, crying, with a handkerchief held up to her face. He
did not know my sister by sight, as she had only been with us a few
days, and had been out very little, but he knew that she was in
mourning for her baby son. My sister was not in the orchard that day
at all, is rather short, and wore no veil.
This was the second time the figure had been mistaken for that of
a real person, the.outlines being very distinct, and the whole appearance
Record of a Haunted Souse. 317
solid. It is Only fair to say that the gentleman, who is a friend Of th«
landlord's, now tells us that he has no recollection of this incident.
The same evening this General A. came over to our house, and we
all took up various stations on the watch for the figure, which, however,
was not seen by anyone.
That night my brother-in-law and sister distinctly heard footsteps
going first up the stairs and then down. This was about 2 a.m.
On the evening of August 11th we were sitting in the drawing-
room, with the gas lit but the shutters not shut, the light outside
getting dusk, my brothers and a friend having just given up tennis,
finding it too dark; my eldest sister, Mrs. K., and myself both saw the
figure on the balcony outside, looking in at the window. She stood
there some minutes, then walked to the end and back again, after
which she seemed to disappear. She soon after came into the drawing-
room, when I saw her, but my sister did not.
The same evening my sister E. saw her on the stairs as she came
out of a room on the upper landing.
The following evening, August 12th, while coming up the garden, I
walked towards the orchard, when I saw the figure cross the orchard,
go along the carriage drive in front of the house, and in at the open
side door, across the hall and into the drawing-room, I following. She
crossed the drawing-room, and took up her usual position behind the
couch in the bow window. My father came in soon after, and I told
him she was there. He could not see the figure, but went up to where
I showed him she was. She then went swiftly round behind him,
across the room, out of the door, and along the hall, disappearing as
usual near the garden door, we both following her. We looked out
into the garden, having first to unlock the garden door, which my
father had locked as he came through, but saw nothing of her.
On August 12th, about 8 p.m., and still quite light, my sister E.
was singing in the back drawing-room. I heard her stop abruptly,
come out into the hall, and call me. She said she had seen the figure
in the drawing-room, close behind her as she sat at the piano. I went
back into the room with her, and saw the figure in the bow window in
her usual place. I spoke to her several times, but had no answer.
She stood there for about 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour ; then,
went across the room to the door, and along the passage, disappearing
in the same place by the garden door. ,
My sister M. then came in from the garden, saying she had seen her
coming up the kitchen steps outside. We all three then went out into
the garden, when Mrs. K. called out from a window on the first
storey that she had just seen her pass across the lawn in front, and
along the carriage drive towards the orchard. This evening, then,
318 Miss R. C. Morion.
altogether 4 people saw her. My father was then away, and my
youngest brother was out.
On the morning of August 14th the parlourmaid saw her in the
dining-room, about 8.30 a.m., having gone into the room to open the
shutters. The room is very sunny, and even with all the shutters
closed it is quite light, the shutters not fitting well, and letting
sunlight through the cracks. She had opened one shutter, when, on
turning round, she saw the figure cross the room. We were all on the
look-out for her that evening, but saw nothing ; in fact, whenever we
had made arrangements to watch, and were especially expecting her,
we never saw anything. This servant, who afterwards married, was
interviewed by Mr. Myers at her own house.
On August 16th I saw the figure on the drawing-room balcony,
about 8.30 p.m. She did not afterwards come into the room, as on the
former occasion. On looking out at the side door, nothing could be
seen.
The gardener said that he had seen the figure on the balcony that
morning early, about 6 o'clock.
On August 1 9th, 3 days after, we all went to the seaside, and were
away a month, leaving three servants in the house.
When we came back they said that they had heard footsteps and
noises frequently, but as the stair-carpets were up part of the time and
the house was empty, many of these noises were doubtless due to
natural causes, though by them attributed to the figure.
The cook also spoke of seeing the figure in the garden, standing by
a stone vase on the lawn behind the house.
During the rest of that year and the following, 1885, the apparition
was frequently seen through each year, especially during July, August,
and September. In these months the three deaths took place, viz. :—
Mr. S., on July 14th, 1876, the first Mrs. S. in August, and the second
Mrs. S. on September 23rd.
The apparitions were of exactly the same type, seen in the same
places and by the same people, at varying intervals.
The footsteps continued, and were heard by several visitors and
new servants, who had taken the places of those who had left, as well
as by myself, 4 sisters and brother ; in all by about 20 people, many
of them not having previously heard of the apparition or sounds.
Other sounds were also heard in addition which seemed gradually
to increase in intensity. They consisted of walking up and down on
the second-floor landing, of bumps against the doors of the bedrooms,
and of the handles of the doors turning. The bumps against the
bedroom doors were so marked as to terrify a new servant, who had
heard nothing of the haunting, into the belief that burglars were
breaking into her room, while another servant, who had a slight attack
Record of a Haunted House.
of facial hemiplegia, attributed it to terror caused by attempts at her •
door wow than usual one night ; the doctor, however, thought the
attack was caused by cold rather than fright.
A second set of footsteps was also heard, heavy and irregular,
constantly recurring, lasting a great part of the night, often 3 or 4
times a week. On the first floor, the same noises are heard, especially
in the front right-hand room, formerly used by Mr. and Mrs. S.
Louder sounds were also heard in the summer of 1885, heavy thuds
and bumpings, especially on the upper landing.
These facts were kept quiet, on account of the landlord, who feared
they might depreciate the value of the house, and any new servants
were not told of them, though to anyone who Iwd already heard
of them we carefully explained the harmless nature of the apparition.
Some left us on account of the noises, and we never could induce any
of them to go out of their rooms after they had once gone up for the
night.
During this year, at Mr. Myers's suggestion, I kept a photographic
camera constantly ready to try to photograph the figure, but on the few
occasions I was able to do so, I got no result ; at night, usually only by
«andle-light, a long exposure would be necessary for so dark a figure,
and this I could not obtain. I also tried to communicate with the
figure, constantly speaking to it and asking it to make signs, if not able
to speak, but with no result. I also tried especially to touch her, but
did not succeed. On cornering her, as I did once or twice, she
disappeared.
Some time in the summer of this year (1886), Mrs. Twining, our
regular charwoman, saw the figure, while waiting in the hall at the
door leading to the kitchen stairs, for her payment. Until it suddenly
vanished from her sight, as no real figure could have done, she thought
it was a lady visitor who had mistaken her way. Mr. Myers inter
viewed her on December 29th, 1889, and has her separate account.
On one night in July, 1886 (my father and I being away from
bome), my mother and her maid heard a loud noise in an unoccupied
room over their heads. They went up, but seeing nothing and the
noise ceasing, they went back to my mother's room on the first storey.
They then heard loud noises from the morning-room on the ground
floor. They then went half way downstairs, when they saw a bright
light in the hall beneath. Being alarmed, they went up to my sister
E., who then came down, and they all three examined the doors,
•windows, &c, and found them all fastened as usual. My mother and
her maid then went to bed. My sister E. went up to her room on
the second storey, but as she passed the room where my two
sisters L. and M. were sleeping, they opened their door to say that
they had heard noises, and also seen what they described as the fiams
320 Miss R. C. Morton.
of a candle, without Candle or hand visible, cross the room diagonally
from corner to door. Two of the maids opened the doors of their two
bedrooms, and said that they had also heard noises ; they all 5 stood at
their doors with their lighted candles for some little time. They all
heard steps walking up and down the landing between them ; as they
passed they felt a sensation which they described as " a cold wind,"
though their candles were not blown about. They saw nothing. The
steps then descended the stairs, re-ascended, again descended, and did
not return.
In the course of the following autumn we heard traditions of earlier
haunting, though, unfortunately, in no case were we able to get a first
hand account.
1. A job gardener, who had worked several times a week at a
house on the opposite side of the road, was reported to have several
times seen a figure in our garden before we occupied the house. This,
figure he knew not to be that of a real person. On tracing him, we
found he had died, and his widow had left the town, and her where
abouts was not known.
2. I met a lady at a friend's house, who told me that, when living
in the town 7 or 8 years before, she had frequently been told that
the house and garden were haunted by Mrs. S. After the lapse of
time she could not remember the names of any people who were
reported to have seen anything, and we could not trace anyone.
3. The apparition was mentioned by my uncle (since dead) at a,
mess-table in Halifax, Nova Scotia, when an officer then present said
that while in the town 7 or 8 years before, he had been told that
the house was haunted, and remembered looking up at the windows with
interest as he rode past to see if he could see anything at them.
We also now heard from a carpenter who had done jobs in the
house in Mrs. S.'s time, that Mrs. S. had wished to possess herself of
the first Mrs. S.'s jewels. Her husband had called him in to make a
receptacle under the boards in the morning-room on the ground floor,
in which receptacle he placed the jewels, and then had it nailed down
and the carpet replaced. The carpenter showed us the place. My
father made him take up the boards ; the receptacle was there, but
empty.
My father thought that there might be something hidden near the
garden door, where the figure usually disappeared. The boards were
taken up, and nothing was there but the original shavings and dust.
My father went to Bristol, and there found the register of Mrs.
S.'s death, which had taken place on September 23rd, 1878, from,
dipsomania and intervening sub-gastritis. He called on the doctor
who had attended her, and asked him if there had been any disfigure
ment of the face which would account for its persistent concealment.
Record 6f a Haunted Souse,
He remembered the case, and said that there had not been, though the
face had become more full and round.
During 1887 we have few records ; the appearances were less,
frequent.
On Friday, February 4th, my sister E. was coming downstairs at
about 7.30 p.m., when she saw the figure moving across the hall from
the front door to the drawing-room, she herself being at the top of the
first flight of stairs. The gas was lighted in the hall at the time.
In an interview with Mr. Myers on February 14th, she told him that
she thought this was about the 10th time she had seen the figure. She
went on into the dining-room and told my father ; they called me from
the morning-room, and we all three went into the drawing-room, of
which the door was shut. Nothing was to be seen or heard.
During the next two years, 1887 to 1889, the figure was very
seldom seen, though footsteps were heard ; the louder noises had
gradually ceased.
From 1889 to the present, 1892, so far as I know, the figure has
not been seen at all ; the lighter footsteps lasted a little longer, but
even they have now ceased.
The figure became much less substantial on its later appearances.
Up to about 1886 it was so solid and life-like that it was often mistaken
for a real person. It gradually became less distinct. At all times it
intercepted the light ; we have not been able to ascertain if it cast a
shadow. I should mention that it has been seen through window-glass,
and that I myself, wear glasses habitually, though none of the other
percipients do so. The upper part of the figure always left a more
distinct impression than the lower, but this may partly be due to the
fact that one naturally looks at people's faces before their feett
Proofs of Immateriality.
1. I have several times fastened fine- strings across the stairs at
various heights before going to bed, but after all others have gone up
to their rooms. These were fastened in the following way : I made
small pellets of marine glue, into which I inserted the ends of the cord,
then stuck one pellet lightly against the wall and the other to the
banister, the string being thus stretched across the stairs. They were
knocked down by a very slight touch, and yet would not be felt by
anyone passing up or down the stairs, and by candle-light could not
be seen from below. They were put at various heights from the ground,
from 6 inches to the height of the banisters, about 3 feet.
I have twice at least seen the figure pass through the cords, leaving
them intact.
2. The sudden and complete disappearance of the figure, while still
in full view.
322 Miss R. C. Morton.
3. The impossibility of touching the figure. I have repeatedly
followed it into a corner, when it disappeared, and have tried to
suddenly pounce upon it, but have never succeeded in touching it or
getting my hand up to it, the figure eluding my touch.
4. It has appeared in a room with the doors shut.
On the other hand, the figure was not called up by a desire to see it,
for on every occasion when we had made special arrangements to watch
for it, we never saw it. On several occasions we have sat up at night
hoping to see it, but in vain,—my father, with my brother-in-law,
myself with a friend 3 or 4 times, an aunt and myself twice, and my
sisters with friends more than once ; but on none of these occasions
was anything seen. Nor have the appearances been seen after we have
been talking or thinking much of the figure.
The figure has been connected with the second Mrs. S. ; the grounds
for which are :—
1. The complete history of the house is known, and if we are to
connect the figure with any of the previous occupants, she is the only
person who in any way resembled the figure.
2. The widow's garb excludes the first Mrs. S.
3. Although none of us had ever seen the second Mrs. S., several
people who had known her identified her from our description. On
being shown a photo-album containing a number of portraits, I picked
out one of her sister as being most like that of the figure, and was
afterwards told that the sisters were much alike.
4. Her step-daughter and others told us that she especially used the
front drawing-room in which she continually appeared, and that her
habitual seat was on a couch placed in a similar position to ours.
5. The figure is undoubtedly connected with the house, none
of the percipients having seen it anywhere else, nor had any other
hallucination.
Conduct of Animals in the House.
We have strong grounds for believing that the apparition was seen
by two dogs.
1. A retriever who slept in the kitchen was on several occasions
found by the cook in a state of terror, when she went into the kitchen
in the morning—being a large dog, he was not allowed upstairs ;
he was also seen more than once coming from the orchard thoroughly
cowed and terrified He was kindly treated and not at all a nervous
dog.
2. A small skye-terrier, whom we had later, was allowed about the
house ; he usually slept on my bed, and undoubtedly heard the foot
steps outside the door. I have notes of one occasion, on October 27th,
1887. The dog was then suffering from an attack of rheumatism, and
Record of a Haunted House. 323
very disinclined to move, but on hearing the footsteps it sprang up
and sniffed at the door.
Twice I remember seeing this dog suddenly run up to the mat at
the foot of the stairs in the hall, wagging its tail, and moving its back
in the way dogs do when expecting to be caressed. It jumped up,
fawning as it would do if a person had been standing there, but
suddenly slunk away with its tail between its legs, and retreated,
trembling, under a sofa. We were all strongly under the impression
that it had seen the figure. Its action was peculiar, and was much
more striking to an onlooker than it could possibly appear from a
description.
We have no horses, and the cat, as a rule, lives only in the kitchen;
we have never noticed anything peculiar about her behaviour.
In conclusion, as to the feelings aroused by the presence of the
figure, it is very difficult to describe them ; on the first few occasions,
I think the feeling of awe at something unknown, mixed with a strong
desire to know more about it, predominated. Later, when I was able
to analyse my feelings more closely, and the first novelty had gone off,
I felt conscious of a feeling of loss, as if I had lost power to the figure.
Most of the other percipients speak of feeling a cold wind, but I
myself have not experienced this.
In writing the above account, my memory of the occurrences has
been largely assisted by reference to a set of journal letters written at
the time, and by notes of interviews held by Mr. Myers with my father
and various members of our family.
R. C. Morton.
April 1st, 1892.
See also separate accounts of :—
I. Miss Campbell.
II. Miss E. Morton.
III. My brother, W. H. C. Morton.
IV. Mrs. K.
V. Mrs. Brown.
VI. Mrs. Twining.
L
I beg to certify that the letters from which Miss Morton has
largely quoted were written to me by her on the dates mentioned, and
are still in my possession, but being of the nature of a diary, contain
so many allusions to private matters that neither Miss Morton nor I
at present see our way to making them over to the Society for Psychical
Research.
Miss Morton wishes me to state that, although I have never seen
the figure, I have heard the footsteps, and that they certainly are
324 . Miss 22. 0. Mortem,
unlike those of any member of the M. family, and could not possibly
be attributed to them. The servants are excluded by the fact that
they were all changed during the time that the footsteps continued,
and were unaltered in character,
I may add as . a curious circumstance that on the night on which
Miss Morton first spoke to the figure, as stated in her account, I myself
saw her telepathically. I was in my room (I was then residing in the
North of England, quite 100 miles away from Miss Morton's home),
preparing for bed, between 12 and half-past, when I seemed suddenly
to be standing close by the door of the housemaid's cupboard (see plan
of second floor) at ,so facing the short flight of stairs leading to
the top landing. Coming down these stairs, I saw the figure, exactly
as described, and about two steps behind Miss Morton herself, with a
dressing-gown thrown loosely round her, and carrying a candle in her
hand. A loud noise in the room overhead recalled me to my surround
ings, and although I tried for some time I could not resume the
impression.
The black dress, dark head-gear, widow's cuffs and handkerchief
were plainly visible, though the details of them were not given me by
Miss Morton till afterwards, when I asked her whether she had not
seen the apparition on that night.
(Signed) Catherine M. Campbell.
77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, W.
March 31«<, 1892.
To this account Miss Morton adds :—" Miss Campbell was the
friend to whom I first spoke of the apparition. She suggested to me
that when next I saw her I should speak ; but of course she had no
idea when this would be. She wrote an account to me the next day
of what she had seen, and asked me if I had not seen the figure that
night ; but naturally did not know that I had done so, until she
received my reply. Miss Campbell asks me to say that this is the only
vision she has had, veridical or otherwise."
II.
(1) The first time I saw anything unusual in the house was in July,
1884. Crossing the upper landing, after having come to bed at about
11.15 p.m., I had an impression of something unusual, which caused
me to start back, and then some little way in front of me I saw a
figure as of a widow in black preceding me down the stairs. I watched
it down one flight, and it then disappeared ; of course, in this position
it had its back to me.
(2) The next time I saw the figure was one evening at about
8 o'clock, in July, 1885, a fine evening and quite light. I was sitting
Record of a Haunted Souse, 325
alone in the drawing-room singing, when suddenly I felt a cold, icy
shiver, and I saw the figure bend over me, as if to turn over the pages
of my song. I called my sister, who was in another room. She came
at once, and said she could see it still in the room, though I then
could not.
(3) After coming up to bed, one night in July, 1886, my mother,
myself, and one of the maids heard noises downstairs in the hall, On
going down to investigate the cause, we saw nothing, and the noises
ceased. After again returning to the top landing, the noises "
began again. It sounded as if people were throwing heavy articles,
such as boots, across the passage and down the stairs. Door handles
seemed to rattle too, the night being still and no one about. Two
maids and my two sisters and myself listened on the top landing, with
lighted candles in our hands, when we distinctly heard the footsteps
pass and repass us quite close, but saw nothing, most of us feeling
what we term the " icy shiver."
(4) I had just gone upstairs, on February 4th, 1887, to fetch some
prescriptions for my father, when I saw the same figure preceding me
down the stairs. It went into the drawing-room, which was then not
being used. My father and I lighted a candle, and stayed in the room
for some little time, but saw nothing.
The figure appears to me as that of a tall woman in old-fashioned
widow's weeds, with the left hand partly hidden under the folds of her
dress, and the right hand with a handkerchief placed to her face,
almost obscuring the whole of the face, with the exception of the upper
part of the forehead and hair. The hands are long and very well
shaped. Edith Morton.
III.
(1) On or about December 18th, 1883, I was playing with a school-
friend on the path in front of the drawing-room windows, when on
looking up at the drawing-room we both saw a tall figure in black,
holding a handkerchief to her face with her right hand, seated at the
writing-table in the window, and therefore in full light. We came in at
once, but on going into the room found no one there, and on making
inquiries found that no stranger had been in the house that afternoon.
As far as I can remember, this was about 3.15 in the afternoon, At
all events, it was full daylight at the time.
Since then I have seen the figure twice.
(2) Once when coming out of the drawing-room, about half-past
eight (just after the gas had been lit throughout the house), I saw the
figure going down the passage towards the side door, thus having her
back to me. It finally disappeared in the direction of the kitchen
stairs.
32G Miss R. C. Morton.
(3) The other time, on coming out of a room at the end of a passage
on the first landing, I saw it going along the passage towards the stair
case, but it turned back and finally disappeared through the door of
another bedroom. This was about 6 o'clock in the evening, the gas
not yet being lit, and so the light was somewhat dim.
(4) Another time I was in the morning-room, and had a momen
tary glimpse of the figure, but not long enough to be absolutely certain
of having seen it. This was in the evening, the gas having been lit
both in the room and in the passage outside.
Besides these appearances I have occasionally heard noises like a
person walking about with soft slippers, but on looking out I have seen
nothing, and sometimes the noises have stopped, but at other times
have gone on without interruption.
Previously to seeing the appearances (1) and (2) I had heard
nothing about anything unusual being seen in the house.
W. H. C. Morton.
December 31st, 1891.
IV.
Whilst staying at , in the autumn of 1883, I was coming down
the stairs, about five in the afternoon, when I saw a tall figure in
black cross the hall, push open the drawing-room door, and go in.
At the time I thought she was a Sister of Mercy, from her long veil,
the figure being entirely substantial, and like that of a real person,
although on others making inquiries, no one had called.
This, I may mention, was the year before I heard of any appear
ance being known of in the house. At another time I thought I saw
her in the summer of 1884 looking in at the drawing-room window
from outside. This time the figure was not so distinct, the gas being
lit in the room, while it was semi-dark outside. Soon after my sister,
who had also seen her, saw her enter the room ; but she was not then
visible to me.
I saw the figure once more in the spare room at night, having been
awakened, as I constantly was, by footsteps in the room. I often
heard footsteps at night up and downstairs, like a person wearing flat
list or cloth slippers, and I have heard the swish of woollen drapery,
and on several occasions the sound of heavy bodies on the landings and
against the doors, and overhead the handles of doors turned, the'
sound of something heavy being dragged overhead, on the top storey.
My husband and nurse have heard the same.
I myself was much terrified at the sounds.
F. M. K.
March 29th, 1892.
Record of a Haunted Home. 327
V.
[I called, February 15th, 1890, on Mrs. Brown, 10, Mitre-street, St.
Luke's, C, and heard from her the following account, which I wrote
down the same evening and took to her to-day, February 16th, when
she read, corrected, and signed it.—F.W.H.M.]
About 7 years ago I went as parlourmaid to . At that time
nothing had been said about the ghost, although I believe that Miss
Rase (the eldest Miss M.) had seen it for about a year.
I think that the first person besides Miss Rose who saw it was
Master Willy. He was then about 8 or 9 years old, and was playing
in the garden with another young gentleman, when they both looked
in through the drawing-room window, and saw a widow in the room.
They ran up to their mother's room ;—she was an invalid and seldom
left her bed,—and told her what they had seen, but Miss Rose, who
was there, laughed it off.
The next time that it was seen was by Mrs. K., the married
sister, who used to come and stay a month or so in the house every
year. She had been there three days when she said that she had seen
a widow in the drawing-room. Then Master Willy called out that that
must have been the same woman whom he had seen ; and after that
Miss Rose told that she had been in the habit of seeing the figure.
So all those in the house knew ; but when a new servant came we
used to take care not to tell her, because it was hard to get a girl
to stay.
Some months after the thing became known I was alone in the
house one evening with Lizzie, a new cook, (I do not know her address
now), and we were standing at the door of the servants' hall, on the
basement floor. The passage was lit with gas. Lizzie had heard
nothing of the ghost, I am sure. Suddenly we both saw a dark
shadowy figure, dressed in black, and making no noise, glide past us
along the passage and disappear round a corner. Neither of us spoke
as it passed ; but directly after we looked at each other, and each saw
that the other had seen it, and we mentioned it to each other. We
had seen just the same thing. I have myself never seen any white
about the figure ; but I know that others have seen her hold a
handkerchief up to her face. The figure has never looked to me quite
solid ; but it has always vanished too quickly for me to look closely
at it.
The next time that I saw it was in the drawing-room, when I went
in to light the gas at dusk on a summer's evening. I saw a dark figure
walk round the ottoman and disappear. I was not much frightened.
The next time I saw no figure, but I was more frightened than any
other time. I was going off next day on a holiday, and I sat up late
in my room with some sewing. My room was between Miss Morton's
328 Mm M, C, Morton.
and the schoolroom, on the top floor, where the sounds were apt to be
worst. I heard a loud noise and looking up I saw the handle of my
door twisted round, as if someone were trying to come in. The door
was locked, and this was not a mere slip of the handle. The handle
was quite firm and never slipped of itself. I knew that no one was
up or about and I was motionless with fear. I could scarcely go to bed.
Next morning when I looked at myself in the glass I saw that one
side of my face was twisted by a slight stroke. I had been perfectly
well the night before, and I could not believe that such a thing
had happened, I thought it must be my fancy. But when I went
downstairs the other servants saw it. I went for my holiday, Saturday
to Wednesday, and when I got back I went at once to Dr. F., and he
applied blisters to my face and it gradually got straight again. He
said that the twisted face might have been caused by a draught as
well as by a fright—but I had been in no draught. I have no doubt
that it was the fright ; and for some time afterwards my hand was very
shaky and my nerves upset. But I went on with my work as usual, as
I knew the thing could not really hurt me.
I saw it twice more, both times in the drawing-room. Once it was
as I was lighting the gas, as I had seen it before. The other time was
when I entered the room in the morning and had taken down one
shutter. I then saw it close by me, and was frightened, and called
another servant to come to me. I stayed on in the place and was
married from thence. One housemaid while I was there saw the figure,
she said, on the road just outside the gates. She said that she saw
her face.
We often heard someone running down the steps from the approach
to the back door, and went to open the back door, and found no
one there.
I often heard noises on the attic landing near my room—scuffling
and knocking. Sometimes I would hear Miss Rose open her door and
go downstairs. I know now that she was following the ghost. But I
heard her before I knew about the ghost at all.
M. E. Brown.
VI.
December 29f/», 1889, 5 p.m.
[I have just called on Mrs. Twining, charwoman, Chapel-place, Great
Norwood-street. Mrs. Twining is a sensible, trustworthy person, who
has worked for the Mortons for 8 or 9 years. She is illiterate, and I
dispensed with her signature, but made notes during my visit from
which this account is taken.—F.W.H.M.]
" About 3 years ago, one summer evening between eight and nine,
when it was twilight, I had been at work at the Mortons and was
Record of a Haunted House.
waiting for my pay. I stood at the top of the kitchen stairs, where
there is a door into the garden behind the house. I saw a lady pass
by, rather tall, in black silk, with white collar and cufls, a handkerchief
in her hand, and a widow's fall. I had heard about the ghost, but it
never struck me that this figure could be a ghost—it looked so like an
ordinary person. I thought that someone had come to call and missed
her way to the door. The family were at tea and I was merely
waiting, so out of curiosity I followed the lady round the house. Just
outside the morning-room window she suddenly disappeared. I was
quite near her ; it was quite impossible that a real person could have
got away.
" I went into the house and began telling the housemaid that I had
seen the ghost. She stopped me,—pointing to the parlourmaid, a new
one, whom they were anxious to keep in ignorance of the ghost—as the
maids often left on account of it. The parlourmaid had seen from
one of the windows the same figure, though she had not known that it
was the ghost. I believe that she left at the month's end.
" I was there when a former parlourmaid, now Mrs. Brown, got the
fright which caused a stroke so that her face was twisted. I believe
that she saw the figure in her bedroom. She had seen it several times
before. She went away by the doctor's orders and then came back and
married from the house. The Morton family are very good, kind
people."
2
330 Miss M. C. Morton.
Garden terracw
Balcony
/ Bow window \
7
Back Drawing-room A Front / / Drawing-room
Grand piano
iancT| 1
Stairs
JL .> l I I I II I I I I I I t li
D
c
Morning-room
Hall
door
B
Dining-room
Plan of Grocnd Floor.
Tlie two drawing-rooms are separated by a wide archway formerly filled by folding
doors.
1. Position of music stool, while sitting on which E. M. saw figure behind her.
12/7/84.
2. Sofa on which figure sat, dot marking position behind, which it took up when
sofa was occupied.
* Marks spot where figure usually disappeared.
II Marks position of mat.
Marks usual track of figure when followed downstairs, into drawing-room^
along passage to garden door, where it disappeared,
x Window looking on to orchard.
IT Garden door by which figure disappeared.
->. Shows direction in which doors open.
D Small lobby from which stairs go down to basement, and a servants' staircase
leads up to half-landing between ground and first floors.
Record of a Shunted, Bouse. 33i
Bow window-
Footsteps heard in this room
by Mrs. M.
Bedroom occupied by Mrs. M.
Bedroom
□(3)
» £
!ZK2)
(1)
Stairs to Second Floor.
Ill
Figure seen in this room by
Mr. and Mrs. K.
Bedroom—the one occupied
by Mr. and second Mrs. S.
I
in
Bedroom occupied by Mrs.
M.'s maid and another
servant
8*2
Box-room
Bedroom—the oneoccupied
by Mr. and first Mrs. S.
Plan op First Floor.
* Half-landing between ground floor and first floor.
(1) Door opening from servants' staircase.
(2) Stairs from ground floor.
(3) Stairs up to first floor.
% 2
332 Miss R. C. Morton.
1
room
House
maid's
Bedroom occupied by L. and
M. M., in which lights were
seen
Servants' Bedroom occupied
by E. M.
Cup
board
. "* -
Cup'
1,
board
1
Cook's bedroom
Bath
, I
1
room Schoolroom, and afterwards
bedroom, in whioh loud
sounds were heard
Servants'
room Bedroom occupied by Miss M.
Nursery in time of Mrs. S. P)
1
Nursery in time of Mrs. S. (l)
and also (<)
Plan of Second Floor.
* Half-landing between first and second floors.
x Marks position of figure when first seen by Miss M.
Marks course from Miss M.'s bedroom door to head of stairs, where
figure usually paused, looking towards bath-room door, and then continued straight
down the stairs, not stopping on the first floor, and on the ground floor pursuing
the course marked.
The Subliminal - Comcious7ie88, 333
IV.
THE SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS.
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
Chapter III.
The Mechanism of Genius.
BavaTos itrrtv oKocra tytpOftms opiofiev, OKoaa Be evbovrcs, vnvor.
Heractjttjs.
In. the present series of papers I am endeavouring to trace the
manifestations, and to discriminate the powers, of those subjacent strata
of our being which, although they possess, (as I claim,) a conscious in
telligence of their own, nevertheless do not habitually rise above the
threshold of our ordinary waking consciousness. I believe that an
uprush of subliminal faculty may be detected at many points ; and
moreover that subliminal perception, memory, power over the organism,
-—hyperesthesia, hypermnesia, and what we may term hyperboulia,—
extend over a range wider than that which is covered by the supra
liminal consciousness with which we identify ourselves in ordinary
speech.
For the sake of clearness, and of course without pretending to logical
accuracy, I have arranged these subliminal phenomena in three groups
according to the position which they occupy with reference to a
figurative spectrum of consciousness,—which is conceived as including,
but transcending, the range of perceptivity and of reactive capacity
which is covered by our ordinary supraliminal life.
Some of these hidden powers, I have said, lie below the physiological
limit—call it the red end—of the ordinary conscious spectrum. They
involve, that is to say, an action upon the physical organism profounder
than our waking will can exert. Of these powers, especially as revealed
by hypnotic suggestion, I have spoken in the last chapter. And the
hyperboulia thus shown,—it is well to remember,—forms the exact
contrast to the aboulia, or defect of will-power over the organism, which
is characteristic of the supraliminal life of the hysterical subject.
It is however beyond the other—call it the violet—end of our
imaginary spectrum that these signs of hidden capacity are mainly to
be sought. The bright lines corresponding to telepathy and clairvoy
ance lie above the psychological limit of the range of ordinary con
sciousness. They involve, that is to say, not so much an increased
power of the mind over the body as an increased power of one mind
£34 Mr. F, W. H. Myers. '. '.
over another mind ; or a perceptivity independent of such corporeal
conditions as limit the perception which we already know. It is from
this ultra-violet tract of our spectrum that the themes of our future dis
cussion will for the most part be drawn.
But there,remains, of course, a region of perception. not included in
either of these two classes,—the region, namely, over which the ordinary
red to violet spectrum itself extends. If subliminal action be traceable
beyond each end of that spectrum, should it not be traceable also along
the range of that spectrum itself f I claim that it is so traceable ; and
in this chapter I shall try to indicate some ways in which the working
of our ordinary, familiar faculties is reinforced by. impulses or messages
from the consciousness which exists below.
Our difficulty here will be of a kind somewhat different from that
which we encounter in the two other classes. In the ultra-violet tract, for
instance, our difficulty lies in proving that telepathy is a fact in nature.
If such a power exist at all, few will deny that its characteristic bright
line lies far above our ordinary psychological limit. But touch, hearing,
sight,—these are already appropriated as the functions of the waking
self. How are we to prove that any exercise of these powers, though
unusual in degree, is different in kind from our familiar operations 1 If
it be different, is it not a merely accidental, or even morbid, extension
of ordinary capacity ? In answer to this question I shall try to show
that in the domain of each sense in turn there are " flashes of inspira
tion," to use the popular term, which surpass the products of conscious
effort not only in sensory intensity but in intelligent co-ordination, and
seem to have been elaborated below the threshold by an active and
reminiscent mind.
Now these "flashes of inspiration,"—-these fugitive bright lines
referable to our subliminal strata,—will on this view be likely to be more
conspicuous when the glare of the supraliminal spectrum is deadened
by sleep or trance. That is to say, we shall expect that traces of
hyperesthesia or hypermnesia will be most observable in the hypnotic
trance, next in dreams, and least conspicuous in ordinary waking life.
And to this expectation the facts do on the whole correspond. It will
be generally admitted, in the first place, that hyperesthesie of all senses
are wont to occur in the hypnotic trance. This fact, I say, will not be
denied; but in most text-books its meaning has been greatly obscured
by a misdescription depending on one-sided theory. Thus the phrase
" cramp of attention " is often employed, and the subject is supposed
to be alive to every whisper of his hypnotiser's simply from the fact that
his whole mind is directed in that channel, and that he observes nothing
else. And this is true enough in many of the simpler cases ;—as in the
platform-experiments, where the suggested rapport which keeps the
subject's gaze fixed in fascination upon the hypnotiser's eye may well
The Subliminal Consciousness.
be described as cramp of attention. But hardly any phrase can be less
fitting to describe the kind of perceptivity on the subject's part against-
which it is most needful to guard, if, for instance, we are trying an
experiment from which all possibilities of external suggestion have to be
excluded. It is not the absorbed and staring platform-subject who is
most likely to notice the little signs which are not meant for him to
see ;—rather it is the lethargic slumberer, who does not wake when
you shout at him, nor stir when you stick pins into him,—yet who
all the while may be treasuring up the most casual words of the
hypnotiser, ready to act upon them,—in a spirit of no dishonesty, bufe
of sheer obedience,—when the time comes to exhibit the phenomena,
which he has thus learnt that his physician expects. This capacity has
often been ignored even by experienced hypnotisersi ; whose error fol
lowed almost inevitably from their conception of hypnotism as a mere
morbid dissociation of ordinary faculties,-—a narrowing of the field of
attention. Attention was therefore supposed to be contracted in.
lethargy into a single point,—the mere readiness to wake up again when,
a given stimulus was applied. From the point of view here taken, on
the other hand, there is no ground for supposing that because the supra
liminal self is stilled into abeyance,—because every superficial token,
of attention or perception has disappeared,—there need be any corre
sponding stagnation in the deeps below. Any sense whose channel is
still left open may continue at work, undemonstratively indeed, but
perhaps more effectively than ever.
Any sense, I say, whose channel is open ;—for I do not wish here
to enter on the question of telepathic or clairvoyant avenues of know
ledge. These I for the present waive ;—but no one familiar with the
phenomena will deny that, if these powers are waived, much hyper-
sesthesia at least will remain to be taken account of. In point of fact,
believers in telepathy have often had to argue against strangely
exaggerated estimates of what hyperesthesia could do. For example, I
remember that when the SociiSte' de Psychologie Physiologique in Paris
were discussing the action a distance exerted by Dr. Gibert upon
Madame B. at Havre, one distinguished physician, Dr. Ruault, main
tained that Madame B., at a distance of nearly half a mile from Dr.
Gibert's house, had perceived by auditory hypersesthesia the change in
the condition of Dr, Gibert's arteries, caused by his concentrating him
self upon the act of willing,—and had obeyed that signal arid come to
him,—as a war-horse follows the trumpet-call. He who believes in this
rather than in telepathy has chosen, I think, his horn of the dilemma
amiss ; but I quote the incident to show to what extent the school
i When the late Edmund Gurney and I first visited the Salpetriere, in 1885, Dr. A.
Voisin was, if I mistake not, the sole physician there who thought it needful to guard
against impressions thus received in the lethargic state.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers,
which is now conservative, as against our telepathic innovations, is
willing to push its belief in the hypnotic extension of ordinary sensory
powers. And I will not occupy further space by dwelling on the
numberless instances in which we shall agree with our sometime
opponents in considering that hypnotic hyperesthesia has in fact been
at work. I shall take such hyperesthesia of sight, hearing, smell,
touch, sensitiveness to heat and cold, ,fec, as an admitted thing ; and
I shall merely point out that we have here precisely the evidence of
which my thesis of this chapter stands in need ;—evidence, namely,
that within the range of the ordinary spectrum,—among the senses
which we familiarly know,—a subliminal perceptivity exists which sur
passes the supraliminal ;—which kindles the bright lines at least of our
habitual spectrum into a more than common glow.
Were my object merely to win assent to a proposition, I could
hardly do better than dwell jxt length on these hypnotic phenomena,
and try to show in detail how little the increased powers can be
deduced from any mere narrowing of the channel or concentration of
the output of known waking capacity. My task, however, in these
papers is one of exploration rather than of exposition. I wish rather
to discuss in instructive connection all the phenomena which I can link
together than to arrange them in a rigid series. And I pass on to the
inquiry,—(from my special standpoint a less promising one),—whether
any of these uprushes of subliminal capacity, within the limits of our
ordinary spectrum, are noticeable apart from dream or trance, and in
ordinary waking hours.
It so happens, as we shall presently observe, that one special group
of these uprushes of subliminal capacity,—those, namely, which per
form the marvels which make an "arithmetical prodigy,"—have
attracted enough attention to furnish us with several pertinent ex
amples of our present theory. But for specimens of some other kinds
of these uprushes we must depend for the present upon mere chance
records ;—since no one as yet, so far as I can discover, has thought
such experiences worth collecting.
Before we proceed to the highly-specialised senses of hearing and
sight, let us see whether we can find traces of subliminal intensification
of those perceptions of a less specialised kind which underlie our more
elaborate modes of cognising the world around us. The sense of the
efflux of lime, and the sense of weight, or of muscular resistance, are
amongst the profoundest elements in our organic being. And the sense
of time is indicated in several ways as a largely subliminal faculty.
There is much evidence to show that it is often more exact in men
sleeping than in men awake, and in men hypnotised than in men
sleeping. The records of spontaneous somnambulism are full of pre
dictions made by the .subject as to his own case, and accomplished,
The Subliwvinal Consciousness. 337
presumably by self-suggestion, but without help from clocks, at the
precise minute foretold. Or this hidden knowledge may take shape in
the imagery of dream, as in a case published by Professor Boyce, of
Harvard,i where his correspondent describes " a dream in which I saw
an enormous flaming clock-dial with the hands standing at 2.20.
Awaking immediately, I struck a match, and upon looking at my watch
found it was a few seconds past 2.20."
I should, however, have been puzzled to produce any clear example
of the subliminal time-sense as manifesting itself in a sane and waking
person had not a Mr. Higton sent to me some years ago the following
record of personal experiences on which he desired my opinion. I made
his acquaintance, and found him a sensible, serious witness ; but I did
not then perceive the full significance of his communication, and I have,
unfortunately, lost sight of him.
P. 138.
Mr. W. Higton, 27, St. Leonard-street, Pimlico, S.W., sends me,
September, 1889, the following experiences—abbreviated from a long paper
which I have returned to him.
1. "It is now some three years since the exact time of day presented itself
to my mind independently of any internal knowledge or of any external
physical appearances " (as of clock, &c).
Mr. Higton had no idea of the exact time, when " within a few yards of
Tattersall's there instantaneously appeared before me the face of a clock of
an immense size. Every figure was perfectly visible ; and the huge black
hands distinctly indicated 11.25 ; while at the same moment or, correctly
speaking, a fraction of a second later, I felt convinced and absolutely cer
tain that the time indicated on the dial was the right time " (as in fact it was
by his watch). "The phenomenon has recurred during the past 3 years at
least 5 and, I think, 6 times ; the first 3 occurring at intervals of about 3
months, and the last 2 or 3 being divided by a considerably longer interval."
2. On another occasion Mr. Higton was walking through a field as to
which a legend ran that a young lady was murdered there, while she held a
sprig of thyme, and that anyone passing through the field and not thinking
of the murder would smell thyme. Mr. Higton paid no credit to this legend;
—often walked through the field, but thought about the murder. "How
ever, I did walk through the field one gloomy November afternoon, absorbed
so deeply in some new practical scheme that I did not think about the
murder, and most certainly should not have thought about it if the strongest
conceivable smell of thyme that ever rose to human nostrils had not risen
to mine. The odour of it lasted at least a quarter of a minute, until my
concentrated thoughts were disorganised, and made to dwell on the magical
subject."
3. " When I was at home assisting my father in his business it used to
be my work to weigh the hides which were taken from the beasts we killed,
preparatory to sending them to the dealer ; and it was my custom before
i Procttdingt of American S.P.R., No. p. 360.
338 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
placing tbem in the scale to see how near the weight I would guess them to
be. By this means I became tolerably expert in estimating their weight,
invariably being not more than 3 or 4 pounds out. Now on several
occasions before I guessed, or even thought of guessing, a certain weight
came into my mind which (as in the case of the time indicated on the dial)
I was inwardly assured was correct. I remember one case distinctly, in
which the hide weighed 87jib. , which were the exact figures which occurred
to me prior to weighing, and independently of any computation whatever.
Indeed, on one occasion, the fourth, I think, I ventured to ticket the hide,
without weighing it, in accordance with the figures which came into my
mind ; and on the following Tuesday exactly the number of pounds named
on the ticket were paid for at the market to which the hides were delivered.
As you will easily believe, I did not tell my father I had not weighed the
hide on the ground that I knew the weight without doing so ! " i
Setting aside for the moment the .hallucination of the sense of
smell, I would point out that we have here precisely such uprushes of
subliminal faculty, concerned with the deep organic sensations of the
efflux of time and of muscular resistance, as theory had led us to expect.
We need not postulate any direct or supernormal knowledge,—but
merely a subliminal calculation, such as we shall see in the case of
''arithmetical prodigies," expressing itself supraliminally, sometimes in a
phantasmal picture, sometimes as a mere " conviction," without sensory
clothing. And I would interpret in much the same way the story of
the smell of thyme in the haunted field. We may suppose, I think,
that although Mr. Higton was not " consciously " thinking of the local
legend, his subliminal self remembered it, and produced the appropriate
hallucination of smell in the same way in which it produced the
picture of the clock-face, as indicating that it knew the precise hour.
Thus we have, I think, a reasonable explanation of what seems at
first sight an extravagant ghost story ;—an explanation which is the
more probable insomuch as it is deduced from our own analysis of
Mr. Higton's evidence, and does not seem to have occurred to himself.
In somewhat the same way I should be disposed to explain certain
'•' monitions " of impending illness, or even death, which may occur
i Mr. Higton has also had coincidences in the matter of meeting people in the
streets ; but such coincidences are difficult to make evidential. The following moni
tion, however, deserves record. " Walking towards my lodgings about 3 years ago,
the conviction seized me that if I went my usual way I should meet a friend whom I
greatly desired just then not to meet. I therefore, without hesitation, took another
road, and having arrived at one of the street corners, whom should I see
at the end of the street but my friend, walking down the road on which, but for
my premonition, I should have met him. Whether he was in the habit of taking that
particular road at that time of day, or not, I cannot say ; as only on one occasion,
before had I met him out of doors ; and that was almost a mile distant from the street
now referred to. Besides, I knew absolutely nothing about either his business or his
habits ; and, bo it remembered, my premonition was not an idea—a conjecture—but
an instantaneous intimation to my soul."
The Subliminal. Consciousness. 339
while the supraliminal self is unconscious of any danger. In the
following case, for instance, Lady Eardley's subliminal self may have
foreseen the impending fainting fit, and generated the hallucinatory
voice which averted the perhaps fatal result.
P. 139.
When I was a girl of about sixteen I had a mild attack of measles. I was
staying with my godfather and godmother. After two or three days in my
room I was told that I might have a warm bath ; greatly pleased, and feel
ing well again, I went to the bathroom, locked the door, undressed, and was
just about to get into the bath, when I heard a voice say " Unlock the door. "
The voice was quite distinct and apart from myself and yet seemed to come
somehow from inside myself. I could not say whether it was a man's or
a woman's voice. I was startled, and looked round, but of course no ono
was there. Again I heard the voice, "Unlock the door." I began to get
frightened, thinking that I must be ill and delirious—but I did not feel ill.
I resolved not to think of the voice, and had stepped into the bath, when I
heard it a third time—and I think a fourth time—still saying " Unlock the
door." On this I jumped out and I did unlock the door ; and then stepped
into the bath again. As I got in, I fainted away and fell flat down in the
water. Fortunately as I fell I was just able to catch at a bell-handle, which
was attached to the wall just above the bath. My pull brought the maid,
who found me (she said) lying with my head under water. She picked mo
up and carried me out of the bathroom—knocking my head against the
doorpost as she did so, which brought me partly round for a moment. If
the door had been locked I should certainly have been drowned, as far as I
can tell.
I have never heard a similar voice or had any other hallucination what
ever, i
At one time, however, I had a curious extension of ordinary powers of
hearing. I was in a state of great nervous prostration, from mental distress and
othercauses, and was lying in bed on the second floor front room in a house in
a London street. Under ordinary circumstances I cannot from this room hear
any letters fall into the letterbox. [I tried this experiment and could not
hear letters fall in.—F.W.H.M.] But during this illness I not only could
hear them fall, but I seemed to know from whom each letter came. I felt
a sort of shock at the heart as each fell, and would say to my maid (who
is dead) "there is a letter from my lawyer," or such other person as
the case might be. Of these letters some were more or less expected by me
but others not. Yet I knew at once from whom they came. As I grew
better and stronger the power of distinguishing the letters left me ; but for
some time yet I could hear the letters being dropped into the box.
E. F. De Lousada
(Lady Eardley).
And here among the vaguer or less measurable modes of sensation
some brief mention may be made of various ill-established or ill-under
stood sensory powers, which, if they exist, seem to belong mainly to.
subliminal strata. Such is the metall&sthesia, or sensitiveness to
340 Mr. F. W. Hr Myers.
special metals, so often described in hysterical cases, especially in
France. Such is the dubious " magnetic sense," widely believed in in
France, with its possible extensions to crystals, &c, if Reichenbach's.
isolated experiments are to be trusted. Such is " meteorological
sensitiveness," which recognises or anticipates the changes of the
barometer. Such, too, is the apparent sensibility of certain persons to
the nearness of underground water. Unless the accounts printed in
Proceedings, Vol. II., and elsewhere are due to accident and exaggera
tion,—(for there are many which wilful fraud will not explain),—we
must apparently suppose that some physical indications of the near
ness of water, subliminally apprehended, produce in the " dowser " an
automatic impulse which prompts him unconsciously to twist the
" divining-rod," in just the same way as it prompts automatic writers to
move the pencil. But on all this controversial matter I must not here
dwell. Suffice it to say that if any of these forms of sensitivity be estab
lished they will be additional instances of capacity mainly if not
wholly exercised by the subliminal self, and emerging into supraliminal
existence in ways which no conscious calculation can foretell. Such
powers, in my metaphor, will be represented by the conversion of dark
lines into bright lines within the limits of our habitual spectrum. For
they differ in kind both from hyperesthesia of known senses and from
such novelties as telepathy and clairvoyance. Thus hyperesthesia of the
sense of contact, for instance, is the mere extra brightening of a line in
our spectrum already bright. But metallsesthesia (if not depending on
intensified perceptions of temperature, surface, &c.) is the substitution
of a bright line for a dark one,—though in the vicinity of the bright
tactile lines already familiar. We cannot at any rate assume that its
line, like the novel bright line of telepathy, will lie clearly beyond the
psychological end of our spectrum. Whereas in telepathy we get at
something genetically unlike our known senses, in metallsesthesia we get
at something cognate to our known senses ;—as it were a sense which
has dropped out from among its congeners, or has not yet taken its due
place among them. Metallsesthesia, like telepathy itself, will thus repre
sent one of the n original capacities of protoplasm, of which capacities
a small proportion only may have been developed into definiteness by
the training which protoplasm has up to this date undergone.
But let us pass on from these lower forms of sensitiveness to the
higher, the more intellectual senses of hearing and sight. And
here our first reflection will be that as a form of sense becomes more
intellectual, its internal operation,—the form of imagination, as we
say, connected with it,—gains rapidly in complexity and importance.
Internal audition, internal visualisation, are for our present argument
even more significant than the perception of sounds and sights outside us.
But to begin with external hearing. Hypnotic hyperacuity of hearing is
The Subliminal Consciousness. 341
already familiar. The same phenomenon has been frequently observed
in spontaneous somnambulism, in hysteria, and in various morbid
conditions. An experiment of Dessoir's, already noticed in these
Proceedings, shows, (in close analogy to the phenomena of crystal-
vision,) that sounds which fall unnoticed on the waking ear may be all
the while intelligently treasured up in some hypnotic or other sub
liminal stratum. Mr. X., absorbed in his book amongst friends who
were talking, was suddenly roused to attention by catching his own
name. He asked what his friends had been saying of him. No reply
was made, but he was hypnotised. In the hypnotic trance he was
able to repeat the whole conversation which his waking self had missed.
Still more remarkable is the fact, shown by the late Edmund Gurney
and other observers, that the hypnotised subject can pick out the
distant whisper of his hypnotiser from amidst a Babel of unnoticed
sounds made by persons with whom he is not in rapport. It is
abundantly clear that the external audition of the hypnotic or other
subliminal strata may greatly exceed in delicacy the external audition
of common life.
Let us now turn to internal audition ;—to the sounds which we
imagine within us ;—and let us consider by what test the degree of
such audition is capable of being estimated. The good audile (more
strictly auditile) subject of Galton will differ from the bad one in two
principal ways,—namely, in the intensity and in the complexity of his
intra-cerebral i sensations of sound. That is to say, the good auditile
will summon up the sound of voices, ifec, more easily and more dis
tinctly than other men ; and he will also be better able than others
to recollect and represent to himself complex sequences or co-existences
of sound. We shall find subliminal faculty markedly in excess of
supraliminal in each of these directions,—in the intensity of internal
audition, which leads to hallucination ; and in the complexity of in
ternal audition, which leads to poetic and musical genius.
Let us take first the intensity, or apparent externalisation, of
imagined sounds. We do not, of course, here encounter hallucinations
for the first time. Not hearing and sight alone, but every sense, may
be hypnotically stimulated into a vividness which refuses to believe that
the excitement proceeds only from within. We can produce hallucina
tions of heat, cold, weight, contact, pain, smell, taste. In each case
the intensity of the sensation thus emerging from its subliminal factory
may be far greater than any intensity of similar sensation which con-
.scious supraliminal effort can initiate or maintain. All this is familiar
x On the analogy of "entoptic" and "entotlc" these inward auditions might
.conveniently be described as "entencephalic,"—leaving "intra-cerebral," like
"intra-ocular," to express objective or material arrangements or changes within
•eye or brain.
342 Mr. F. W. IT. Myern.
to every observer of hypnotism ; but few observers have as yet grasped
the important lesson which even the commonest platform phenomena
should teach ;—namely, that the hypnotic self is here performing a
sensory function beyond the possible achievement of the ordinary
waking self. One of the causes of this ignoring of the true signifi
cance of . hallucinations has been (as I have elsewhere observed)
the fact that when they occur spontaneously it is often in connection
with morbid states. Inquiry into human vital phenomena has usually
been undertaken with a therapeutic and not with a purely scientific
purpose ; and consequently the morbid aspect of hallucination, although
really accidental, has been insisted upon in preference to its absolute
psychological significance. This is eminently the case with regard to
the hallucinations of hearing,—imaginary voices, &c.,-—with which we
are at this moment concerned. Frequently accompanying insanity,
they have been discussed as though they were simply an indication of
insanity. How narrow and imperfect such a view of them is I have
tried to show in a previous paper on " The Dcemon of Socrates " (Pro
ceedings, Vol. V., p. 522), to which I must here be content to refer
the reader. He will there, I hope, find some reason for supposing that
that intensification of internal audition which at last suggests exter
nality in the imagined voices may sometimes succeed in manifesting no
disease or disintegration, but rather a subliminal faculty to which the
supraliminal may be glad to appeal.
It is, however, the other branch of internal audition,—that which
involves complexity rather than intensity of imagined sounds,—which
offers, so to say, the richest opportunities for subliminal manifestation,
—the readiest vent-holes for the uprush of the hidden fire. The
sounds that rise within our waking consciousness from a source beyond
the will do not confine themselves to the mere shaping of scattered
sentences,—the airy syllabling of phrases that tend to nought. There
is an inward consonance, an obscure concent, which forms the ground
work of Poetry, the fount of Song,—the cradle from whence those
" sphere-born harmonious sisters, Voice and Verse," issue in preformed
divinity into the common day. This is true not only for Song, strictly
so termed, but also for Poetry unaccompanied by music ;—that is to
say, for interrelations of rhythm and articulation taken apart from
interrelations of pitch, definite time-intervals, or timbre. For the true
poet,—as Goethe has somewhere said,—the melody of his coming poem
floats as a self-created and impalpable entity within him, before words
have shaped themselves or thought itself is born. Jo mi son un, said a,
greater even than Goethe,—
Io mi son un, che quando
Amore spira, noto, ed a quel modo
Che detta dentro, vo significando. ,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 343
And here a reflection may be made which, while it clears up (as
seems to me) an old confusion, will also well illustrate the latent
capacities of the subliminal consciousness ;—its power to convey potent
and intimate messages through mechanism of the slenderest kind. We
know that as we advance from sounds non-human to human sounds,
from sounds non-vocal to sounds which the human throat can produce,
our conception of any given sound increasingly needs, to make it com
plete, a motor as well as an auditory representation within us. Our
grasp, say, of the word London is imperfect if we cannot articulate the
word with our mind's voice as well as hear it with our mind's ear.
In all definite inward audition there is, then, probably a motor
element as well as a sensory. And I hold that one difference between
imagined poetry and imagined music or song lies in the fact that
imagined verbal rhythm may be almost wholly motor, while imagined
tunes must be largely sensory as well. To those, then, who are per
plexed at the fact that many poets have lacked musical ear it may be
answered that the mental imagery of such poets may have been mainly
motile ;—-may have consisted in a delicate imagination of such laryngeal
movements as are concerned in the utterance of melodious speech. I
believe that with careful self-observation many men with " an ear for
verse " will recognise that the essential part of poetic excitation has lain
in scarcely perceptible changes of tension in the muscles of the throat.
The rhythmical modulations, indeed, have their birth beyond the will ;
but it is about that physical centre of imagined utterance that the emo
tional stress will gather and the inexplicable promptings throng; through
that motor channel the reverberating tremors rise and fall ;—and flood
the flats of common consciousness as with the earthquake-wave of an
unfathomed sea.
And there is yet another and even stranger form of inward audition.
There exists among men a mighty complex of conceptions which lie
apart from,—some say beyond,—articulate speech and reasoned thought.
There is a march and uprising through ideal spaces which some hold as
the only true ascent ; there is an architecture which some count as alone
abiding,—
seeing it is built
Of music, therefore never built at all,
Andj therefore, built for ever.
'Whether considered in regard to its development in the race, or to
its activity in the individual, Music resembles not so much a product
of terrene needs and of natural selection as a subliminal capacity attain
ing to an accidental manifestation independently of the requirements or
of the external stimuli of the supraliminal self. We know the diffi
culty of explaining its rise on any current theory of the evolution of
human faculty. We know that it is like something discovered, not like
344 Mi: F. W.H. Myers.
something manufactured •;—like wine found in a walled-up cellar, rather
than like furniture made in the workshop above. And the subjec
tive sensations of the musician himself accord with this view of the
essentially subliminal character of the gift with which he deals. In no
direction is " genius " or " inspiration " more essential to true success.
It is not from careful poring over the mutual relations of musical notes
that the masterpieces of melody have been born. They have come as
.they came to Mozart,—whose often-quoted words I need not cite again,
—in an uprush of unsummoned audition, of unpremeditated and self-
revealing joy. They have come, as to Browning's Abt Vogler, with a
sense of irrecoverable commingling of depths of soul and heights
of heaven.i Translating the phrases of poetry into such terms as we
here employ, we may say that we have reached a point where the sub
liminal uprush is felt by the supraliminal personality to be deeper,
truer, more permanent than the products of voluntary thought. In
the genesis of poetry and of music we have gained a first glimpse into
the mechanism of genius. But before generalising further, we have yet
to consider the subliminal operation of the most intellectual, the most
delicately measurable sense of all ; the sense whose internal operation
may perhaps be the deepest inlet, as its external is the farthest^reaching
excursion, into the reality of things.
I need not dwell on the hypera;sthesie of external vision so often
noted in association with hysteria, with spontaneous somnambulism,
with the hypnotic trance. The difficulties to which they introduce us
show no sign of early or easy solution. Precisely in the region where
the anatomical, the optical, limits appear most definite we have the
'most unpredictable, the most capricious extensions of faculty. I will
give here two cases in which, as I conceive, the subliminal self has
observed what the supraliminal has failed to notice, and has generated
a hallucination, in order to check the mistaken action to which that
inadvertence was leading. In the first case, all that needs correction is
a mere act of distraction,-—a failure to look carefully at an object fully
in sight. In the second case it appears as though the subliminal
actually saw better than the supraliminal self.
P. 140.
From Mrs. E. K. Elliott, wife of the Rev. E. K. Elliott.
About 20 years ago I received some letters by post, one of which con-
i More definite than most of the descriptions of this type in musical literature are
the following words of Schumann's [Robert Schumann's Early Letters, p. 268) : " The
piano is getting too limited for me. It is most extraordinary howl write almost
everything in canon, and then only detect the imitation afterwards,—and often find
inversions, rhythms in contrary motion, &c" And again, p. 271 : "I do not realise
all this while I am composing ; it only comes to me afterwards ; you who are at
the top of the tree will understand what I mean." .
The Subliminal Consciousness.
tained £15 in bank notes. After reading the letters I went into the kitchen
with them in my hands. I was alone at the time, no one being near me,
except the cook, and she was in the scullery. Having done with the letters,
I made a motion to throw them into the fire, when I distinctly felt my hand
arrested in the act. It was as though another hand were gently laid upon
my own, pressing it back. Much surprised, I looked at my hand, and then
saw that it contained not the letters I had intended to destroy, but the bank
notes, and that the letters were in the other hand. I was so surprised that
I called out, "Who is here ?" I called the cook and told her, and also told
my husband on the first opportunity. I never had any similar experience
before or since.
Statement by Rev. E. K. Elliott.
I remember my wife describing the above adventure to me at the time,
and also that she was nearly fainting from the excitement caused by it.
E. K. Elliott.
The following incident was recorded in the Boston Budget by the '
percipient herself, a lady well known to Mr. Hodgson.
P. 141.
The Boston Budget, August 31»f, 1890.
A strange incident occurred one night last week at one of the Boston Back
Bay hotels. It was just before the gas was lighted, and was already growing
dusky in the corridors, when a resident guest stepped out of her room to go
to the elevator. She touched the electric bell and then went down to the end
of another corridor to look out of the window for a moment, while the
elevator was coming up. Returning to it, she was about advancing pre
cipitately to the side of it that the door was on, when the sight of a man
standing exactly in front of the elevator door caused her to stop short, that
she might not be so rude or awkward as to run into him, so to speak, as she
was in danger of doing in her rather heedless haste. The hall was dim, but
a window opposite the elevator showed the form of the man plainly enough,
and the lady waited at a decorous distance. But what was her amazement
when the elevator came up, brightly lighted inside, to see, first, that the
upper door was wide open, and that thus the entire well of the elevator
was exposed. The lady had been a guest for many years in the house,
and had never known such a thing as an elevator door left open to happen
before. But the second fact was far more startling, there was no man
there! Now, the appearance of this man, or her impression of his appear
ance there, undoubtedly saved her from plunging head first down the
elevator well.
The rapidity with which she was rushing toward the elevator—with the
true national haste that characterises every movement of the American, and
makes him crowd to the door of the cars before a train stops, that he may be
the first one out—with the true spirit of her country she was rushing towards
the elevator with a haste whose momentum would almost certainly have
carried her into the fatal well, had not the appearance of the man standing
there checked her steps, and caused a sudden accession of demure dignity
2 A
346 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
and a little flush of embarrassment at being caught hurrying through the
hotel corridor like a rude child let loose from the nursery. Now, here is a
fact for Dr. Richard Hodgson and his Psychical Society. It may be added
that the lady in question immediately went to the hotel desk to report the
terrible carelessness of the boy who had left this door open, but not ambitious
to acquire the reputation of a lunatic, or even a seer of visions or dreamer
of dreams, she took very good care not to relate the other half of the occur
rence, although it was just as palpable a fact as the material fact that the
door was open. Was this the apparition of a spiritual presence, which had
materialised to save her from a terrible fate 1 Who shall say ?
Boston, September 5th, 1890.
My dear Dr. Hodgson,—No, I did not recognise the form at all. I
simply didn't notice—didn't think anything about it, as it is rather the rnle
than the exception to meet people at the elevator in a hotel. Then, too, I
am very near-sighted, and I did not have my eye-glasses on, so I shouldn't
have recognised even my most intimate friend in the dusky light and at the
little distance.
It occurred on Tuesday night, August 26th.
• ..■..«•f
Faithfully yours,
(Signed) A. B.
The account in the Budget was written by the witness herself, a lady well
known to me.—R. H.
Assuming this second incident to be correctly reported, the least
marvellous way of explaining it will perhaps be to suppose that
Miss A. B.'s subliminal self perceived the open doorway at a distance
somewhat beyond the eyesight of her supraliminal self, and then
generated the hallucinatory figure in order to avert the fall.
Such an explanation of course takes for granted that the subliminal
strata possess a power which the supraliminal can rarely rival ;—the
power, namely, of externalising a hallucination,—of projecting from
some hidden workshop a lifelike figure amid the actual surroundings,
and into the common day. And indeed this point is probably too
familiar to my readers to need further insistence here. The question
really before us is not simply whether the subliminal self can generate
hallucinatory pictures,—a fact of which the most ordinary post-hypnotic
suggestion will furnish ample proof. Rather we wish to understand
how much intelligence these pictures imply ;—to discover how far
experiment can be pushed in the way of evoking or modifying them.
And here I must pause to introduce a passage which I only came
upon when this chapter was nearly completed ;—but which seems to me
to give in germ the very theory for which I am now contending, on the
authority of one of the most lucid thinkers of the last generation.
The passage occurs in an article by Sir John Herschel on Sensorial
Vision, in his Familiar Lectures on Scientific Subjects, 1816. Sir
The Subliminal Consciousness. 347
John describes some experiences of his own, " which consist in the
involuntary production of visual impressions, into which geometrical
regularity of form enters as the leading character, and that, under
circumstances which altogether preclude any explanation drawn from a
possible regularity of structure in the retina or the optic nerve."i Twice
these patterns appeared in waking daylight hours,—with no illness or
discomfort at the time or afterwards. More frequently they appeared
in darkness ; but still while Sir John was fully awake. They appeared
also twice when he was placed under chloroform ; " and I should
observe that I never lost my consciousness of being awake, and in full
possession of my mind, though quite insensible to what was going
on. . . . Now the question at once presents itself—What are these
Geometrical Spectres ? and how, and in what department of the bodily
or mental economy do they originate ? They are evidently not dreams.
The mind is not dormant, but active and conscious of the direction of'
its thoughts ; while these things obtrude themselves on notice, and by
calling attention to them, direct the train of thought into a channel it
would not have taken of itself. . . . If it be true that the con- '
ception of a regular geometrical pattern implies the exercise of thought
and intelligence, it would almost seem that in such cases as those above
adduced we have evidence of a thought, an intelligence, working within
our own organisation distinct from that of our own personality." And
Sir John further suggests that these complex figures, entering the mind
in this apparently arbitrary fashion, throw light upon " the suggestive
principle " to which " we must look for much that is determinant and
decisive of our volition when carried into action." " It strikes me as
not by any means devoid of interest to contemplate cases where, in a
matter so entirely abstract, so completely devoid of any moral or
emotional bearing, as the production of a geometrical figure, we, as it
were, seize upon that principle in the very act, and in the performance
of its office."
From my point of view, of course, I can but admire the acumen
which enabled this great thinker to pierce to the root of the matter, by
the aid of so few observations. He does not even seem to have per
ceived the connection between these " schematic phantasms," to borrow
a phrase from Professor Ladd,2 and the hallucinatory figures of men or
animals seen in health or in disease. But even from his scanty data
his inference seems to me irresistible ;—" we have evidence of a
thought, an intelligence, working within our own organisation, distinct
from that of our own personality." I shall venture to claim him as the
i On this point see James' P$ychology, Vol. II., p. 84, note. Goethe's well-
known phantasmal flower was clearly no mere representation of retinal structure. A
near analogy to these patterns lies in the so-called " spirit-drawings," or automatic
arabesques, which I hope to discuss in a later paper.
J See Professor Ladd's paper on this subject in Mind, April, 1892.
2 A 2
Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
first originator of the theory to which the far fuller evidence now acces
sible had independently led myself.
These visions of Sir John Herschel's seem to have been intermediate,
so far as apparent externalisation was concerned, between ordinary
mind's eye visions, and those full-fledged hallucinatory quasi-percepts
which seem to occupy a definite place in the room, and to hide the
chair on which they sit. Perhaps their nearest parallel lies in the
crystal-visions to which I have repeatedly called attention. This
empirical method of inducing hallucinations, by concentration of mind,
aided by gazing into some clear depth or dark mirror, has already illus
trated with singular vividness many forms of that " subliminal uprush "
with which this chapter is concerned. It has been found that, just as
automatic writing systematises and renders intelligible the vague
impulses of motor automatism, so also does this steady gaze at once
educe, clarify, and prolong those incipient intensifications of internal
percepts which the subliminal self seems ever ready to develop, but
which are usually dissipated before they attain to the consistency
either of dream or of waking hallucination. Crystal-vision, however,
has hardly yet been received within the purview of science. The first
attempt so to introduce it,—the series of experiments printed in Pro
ceedings, Vol. V., p. 486, sqq.,—has not as yet led to any wide imitation.
And since in this chapter I am carefully excluding all supernormal or
strongly-controverted phenomena, I will here mention one only of the
forms of subliminal faculty which these experiments illustrated ;—a
form which can be paralleled from ordinary psycho-physical experiment,
and from the experience of conspicuous and well-known persons. I
allude to the hypermnesia of crystal-vision ;—shown in three ways :
(1) the power of reproducing facts once known, but forgotten, (2) the
power of presenting conclusions without awareness of the intermediate
steps, and (3) the power of reproducing facts never consciously known to
the supraliminal self, although they may at some time have fallen
within the field of external vision. These powers, although bearing
somewhat different relations to ordinary memory, are found so much
intermingled in practice that I must stretch the term hypermnesia to
include them all.
I regard this hypermnesia as eminently a subliminal faculty, of which
examples of many kinds will present themselves as we proceed. And
I begin here by quoting an ingenious experiment by which Dr. Scripture,
of Clark University, has shown that in the most ordinary act of vision
we must discriminate between that which is remembered by the super
ficial consciousness and that which remains,—hidden, but educible,—in
some depth below.1
i Scripture, Ueber den associativen Vorlauf der Voratellungen, Leipzig, 1891 1
p. 90, igq.
The Subliminal. ConsciouAness. 349
Dr. Scripture shows to the percipient a card with a picture in the
middle and a small letter of the alphabet printed beneath the picture.
The exposure is so short that the percipient observes only the main
picture, and has no conscious knowledge whatever of the letter of the
alphabet. Yet when afterwards the letter is shown by itself to the
percipient, it often recalls,—gradually, but at last distinctly,—the
picture of star or elephant or whatever it may have been which was on
the centre of the card in whose corner the letter was printed. It often
happens that the percipient cannot tell in what way this obscure
association of letter and picture has been effected. He merely feels that
there is a connection, say between the letter M and the elephant. " Er
hatte nur ein Gefiihl der Richtigkeit." The subliminal self, as I should
express it, has sent up its message in a feeble current, not yet articu
lated into sensory terms.
In this happy contrivance we have both the advantages and the
disadvantages of a laboratory experiment as contrasted with a spon
taneous incident. We have great definiteness in the upheaval of
subliminal memories, but that upheaval is on the very smallest scale.
The pictures which escape the notice of the supraliminal self are retained
by the subliminal for but a short time, and at a short distance below
the threshold. They resemble pebbles which the earthworm sucks into
its burrow and re-ejects upon the lawn, rather than an uprushing lava-
stream from caves of hidden fire. They represent, one may say, the
first stage of a process which, although often inconspicuous, is not
likely to be discontinuous,—the sustenance, namely, of the supraliminal
life by impulse or guidance from below.
I pass on to an example on a larger scale of subliminal visualisa
tion, subliminal hypermnesia, which Nature herself has again and again
supplied ;—involving the hidden manipulation of mind's-eye pictures
of great complexity.
On this topic again we shall find help in work done by Dr. Scrip
ture ; although he has here worked with a different object, and has
indicated no connection between his two inquiries.
During the course of the present century,—and alas ! the scientific
observation of unusual specimens of humanity hardly runs back farther,
or so far,—the public of great cities has been from time to time sur
prised and diverted by some so-called " calculating boy," or " arith
metical prodigy," generally of tender years, and capable of performing
" in his head," and almost instantaneously, problems for which ordinary
workers would require pencil and paper and a much longer time. In
some few cases, indeed, the ordinary student would have no means
whatever of solving the problem which the calculating boy unriddled
with ease and exactness. These calculating boys have simply been
noted as anomalies, and no attempt (so far as I can find) has been made
350 Mr. F. TP. H. Myers.
to explain their powers, that is to say, to include this special gift
under any wider generalisation. Recently, indeed, Dr. Scripture has
made a careful attempt to collect the hints or explanations which these
prodigies have given of their methods of work ; methods which one
might naturally expect to be of use in ordinary education.i For our
present purpose that task, although needful, was only preliminary. We
wish to know how much of his achievement the phenomenal calculator
can explain, mainly in order that we may realise how much remains
inexplicable to himself as to others.
And the records left to us, imperfect as they are, are enough to show
that the main and primary achievement has in fact been subliminal,
while conscious or supraliminal effort has sometimes been wholly absent,
sometimes has supervened only after the gift has been so long exercised
that the accesses between different strata have become easy by frequent
traversing. The prodigy grown to manhood, who now recognises the
arithmetical artifices which he used unconsciously as a boy, resembles
the hypnotic subject trained by suggestion to remember in waking
hours the events of the trance.
In almost every point, indeed, where comparison is possible we shall
find this computative gift resembling other manifestations of subliminal
faculty,—such as the power of seeing hallucinatory figures,—rather than
the results of steady supraliminal effort,—such as the power of logical
analysis. In the first place, this faculty, in spite of its obvious connec
tion with general mathematical grasp and insight, is found almost at
random,—among non-mathematical and even quite stupid persons, as
well as among mathematicians of mark. In the second place, it shows
itself mostly in early childhood, and tends to disappear in later life ;—in
this resembling visualising power in general, and the power of seeing
hallucinatory figures in particular, which powers, as both Mr. Galton's
inquiries and our own tend to show, are habitually stronger in child
hood and youth than in later years. Again, it is noticeable that when
the power disappears early in life it is apt to leave behind it no memory
whatever of the processes involved. And even when, by long persistence
in a reflective mind, the power has become, so to say, adopted into the
supraliminal consciousness, there nevertheless may still be flashes of
pure "inspiration," when the answer "comes into the mind" with
absolutely no perception of intermediate steps. I subjoin a table,
compiled by help of Dr. Scripture's collection, which will broadly
illustrate the main points above mentioned. Some more detailed
remarks may then follow.2
i " Arithmetical Prodigies," in American Journal of Psychology, Vol. IV., No. 1.
(April, 1891.)
2 No adequate account of Jacques Inaudi,—the present "prodigy,"—has as yet
come under my notice.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 351
Table of Principal Arithmetical Prodigies. .
Name (alphabetically). Age when gift
was observed. Duration of gift. Intelligence.
Ampere 4 ? . eminent
Bidder 10 .. through life . good
Buxton ? 1 . low
Colburn 6 .. few years . average
Dase [or Dahse] ... boyhood .. through life ,. . very low
Fuller . . . boyhood ? . low
Gauss 3 ? . eminent
Mangiamelo 10 .. few years . average f
Mondeux 10 .. few years . low
Prolongeau 6 .. few years . low
Safford 0 .. few years . good
"Mr. VanR., of Utica" 6 .. few years . average 1
Whately 3 .. few years . good
Now among these thirteen names we have two men of transcendent,
and three of high ability. What accounts have they given us of their
methods 1
Of the gift of Gauss and Ampere we know nothing except a few
striking anecdotes. After manifesting itself at an age when there is
usually no continuous supraliminal mental effort worth speaking of, it
appears to have been soon merged in the general blaze of their genius.
With Bidder the gift persisted through life, but grew weaker as he grew
older. His paper in Vol. XV. of the Proceedings of (he Institute of
Civil Engineers, while furnishing a number of practical hints to the
calculator, indicates also a singular readiness of communication between
different mental strata. " Whenever," he says (p. 255), " I feel called
upon to make use of the stores of my mind, they seem to rise with the
rapidity of lightning." And in Vol. CHI. of the same Proceedings,
Mr. W. Pole, F.R.S., in describing how Mr. Bidder could determine
mentally the logarithm of any number to 7 or 8 places, says (p. 252) :
" He had an almost miraculous power of seeing, as it were, intuitively
what factors would divide any large number, not a prime. Thus, if
he were given the number 17,861, he would instantly remark it was
Xil x 53. . , . He could not, he said, explain how he did this ;
it seemed a natural instinct to him."
Mr. Bidder's case is well known ; but it may be of interest to
quote some passages from an autobiographical statement kindly
furnished to me by Mr. Blyth, of Edinburgh, the well-known civil
engineer, whose own gift, like that of the younger Mr. Bidder,
though not such as to entitle him to rank as a " prodigy," yet marks
him out distinctly from ordinary mankind.
352 Mr. F. W. U. Myers.
P. 141. .
12, Belgrave-crescent, Edinburgh.
February 28th, 1892.
I shall now endeavour, in response to your request, to give some account
of my late brother's and my own faculty of arithmetical calculation men
tally, and it may be interesting if I allude to influences even before birth
which I have always felt may have had something to do with my brother's
great power.
Benjamin Hall Blyth was born on July 6th, 1819. Our mother had a natural
arithmetical gift—not to any very marked degree, but decidedly above the
average, and especially so among females. Some months before Benjamin's
birth the wonderful calculating boy, Bidder (then, I think, about 12 or 14
years of age), was exhibiting in Edinburgh, and mado a private exhibition in
my father's house. My mother was greatly astonished and interested, put
various questions to Bidder, and some weeks later requested my father to
invite him to another seance, which was done. Her interest increased on
this second occasion, and the wonderful boy continued to occupy her mind
frequently.
It is, I believe, admitted by physiologists that anything greatly occupy
ing a mother's mind certainly may, and frequently does, influence the
character of her unborn child. At all events, my brother, whether from this
or heredity, or both, very early manifested a marvellous power of mental
calculation. When almost exactly six years of age Benjamin was walking
with his father before breakfast, when he said, "Papa, at what hour was I
born 1" He was told four a.m.
Ben. : What o'clock is it at present ?
Ans, : Seven fifty a.m. [My father always took exercise before breakfast
in summer.]
The child walked on a few hundred yards, then turned to his father and
stated the number of seconds he had lived. My father noted down the
figures, made the calculation when he got home, and told Ben he was 172,80f>
seconds wrong, to which he got a ready reply : " Oh, papa, you have left out
two days for the leap years—1820 and 1824, " which was the case.
This latter fact of the extra day in leap year is not known to many
children of six, and if anyone will try to teach an ordinary child of these
years the multiplication table up to 12 x 12 he will be better able to realise
how extraordinary was this calculation for such an infant.
I am conscious of an intuitive recognition of the relation of figures. For
instance, in reading statements of figures in newspapers, which are very
often egregiously wrong, it seems to come to me intuitively that something is
wrong, and when that occurs I am usually right.
I have always felt that there were times when my power was much weaker
than others, not only when tired, but, like a musician, when not in the mood,
I have not the same confidence now at 66 years of age as when younger.
That is to say, I like to check a calculation before stating it, though I can
do nearly as difficult ones as at any time of my life, though not so rapidly.
As to there being any degree of connection between this arithmetical
power and ambidexterity, there is none, I think, in my case. I do not
possess the latter gift consciously, though I may perhaps be able to use the
The Subliminal Consciousness. 353
left hand better than the average of people, but I should not for a moment
claim to be ambidextrous. My daughter, in saying that I was, may have
confused me with my eldest son, who certainly is, but I attribute that to his
being born left-handed and compelled as a child to use his right, as, for
instance, in use of knife or spoon, playing cricket, golf with right-hand clubs,
&c. ; he can bowl or bat with either hand, paint with both hands ; will draw
the fore legs of an animal with one hand, the hind legs with another, just as
the bends or curves suit one hand more readily. He is fond of mechanical
work, and can use either hand in turning articles on a lathe. Left-handed'
ness runs in our family on both sides, and so I say I may have some little
ambidexterity without knowing it.
Edward L. I. Blyth.
Mr. Blyth's interesting record contains other illustrations of
several points above mentioned ;—the early and instinctive appearance
of the faculty ; its gradual subjection to supraliminal guidance ; yet
the persistence of occasional " subliminal uprushes," which give the
problem's answer without its intermediate steps.
Passing on to the two other men of high ability known to have
possessed this gift, Professor Safford and Archbishop Whately, we are
struck with the evanescence of the power after early youth,—or even
before the end of childhood. I quote from Dr. Scripture Archbishop
Whately's account of his own powers.
" There was certainly something peculiar in my calculating faculty. It
began to show itself at between five and six, and lasted about three years.
. . •. I soon got to do the most difficult sums, always in my head, for I
knew nothing of figures beyond numeration. I did these sums much quicker
than anyone could upon paper, and I never remember committing the
smallest error. When I went to school, at which time the passion wore off, I
iivrs a perfect dunce at ciphering, and have continued so ever since."
Still more remarkable, perhaps, was Professor Safford's loss of power.
Professor Safford's whole bent was mathematical ; his boyish gift of
calculation raised him into notice ; and he is now a Professor of
Astronomy. He. had therefore every motive and every opportunity to
retain the gift, if thought and practice could have retained it. But
whereas at ten years old he worked correctly in his head, in one minute
a multiplication sum whose answer consisted of 36 figures, he is now, I
believe, neither more nor less capable of such calculation than his
neighbours.
Similar was the fate of a personage who never rises above initials,
and of whose general capacity we know nothing.
" Mr. Van R., of Utica," says Dr. Scripture on the authority of
Gall, "at the age of six years distinguished himself by a singular
faculty for calculating in his head. At eight he entirely lost this
faculty, and after that time he could calculate neither better nor faster
than any other person. He did not retain the slightest idea of the
manner in which he performed his calculations in childhood."
Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Turning now to the stupid or uneducated prodigies, Dase alone
seems to have retained his power through life. Colburn and Mondeux,
and apparently Prolongeau and Mangiamele, lost their gift after child
hood.
A few hints as to processes have been gleaned from this group ;—the
most interesting point being that Colburn was for some years unable,
but afterwards to some extent able, to explain his own processes. " His
friends tried to elicit a disclosure of the methods by which he performed
his calculations, but for nearly three years he was unable to satisfy
their inquiries. He positively declared that he did not know how the
answers came into his mind." i Later on he did give an account of his
artifices, which, however, showed no great ingenuity.
But on the whole the ignorant prodigies seldom appear to have
been conscious of any continuous logical process, while in some cases
the separation of the supraliminal and subliminal trains of thought
must have been very complete. " Buxton would talk freely whilst
doing his questions, that being no molestation or hindrance to him."'2
Fixity and clearness of inward visualisation seems to have been the
leading necessity in all these achievements ; and it apparently mattered
little whether the mental blackboard (so to say) on which the steps
of the calculation were recorded were or were not visible to the mind's
eye of the supraliminal self.
I have been speaking only of visualisation ; but it would be interest
ing if we could discover how much actual mathematical insight or in
ventiveness can be subconsciously exercised. Here, however, our
materials are very imperfect. From Gauss and Ampere we have, so far
as I know, no record. At the other end of the scale, we know that
Dase (perhaps the most successful of all these prodigies) was singularly
devoid of mathematical grasp. " On one occasion Petersen tried in
vain for six weeks to get the first elements of mathematics into his
head." "He could not be made to have the least idea of a proposition
in Euclid. Of any language but his own he could never master a
word." Yet Dase received a grant from the Academy of Sciences at
Hamburg, on the recommendation of Gauss, for mathematical work :
and actually in twelve years made tables of factors and prime numbers
for the seventh and nearly the whole of the eighth million,—a task
which probably few men could have accomplished, without mechanical
aid, in an ordinary lifetime. He may thus be ranked as the only man
who has ever done valuable service to mathematics without being able
to cross the Ass's Bridge.
On the other hand, in the case of Mangiamele, there may have been
i Scripture, op. eit., p. 50.
5 Scripture, op. cit., p. 54.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 355
real ingenuity subliminally at work. Our account of this prodigy is
authentic, but tantalising from its brevity.
" In the year 1837 Vito Mangiamele, who gave his age as 10 years and
4 months, presented himself before Arago in Paris. He was the son of a
shepherd of Sicily, who was not able to give his son any instruction. By
chance it was discovered that by methods peculiar to himself he resolved
problems that seemed at the first view to require extended mathematical
knowledge. In the presence of the Academy Arago proposed the following
questions : ' What is the cubic root of 3,796,416 1 ' In the space of about
half a minute the child responded 166, which is correct. ' What satisfies the
condition that its cube plus five times its square is equal to 42 times itself
increased by 40 ? ' Everybody understands that this is a demand for the root
of the equation x:i +5 x1—42 x—40=0. In less than a minute Vito responded
that 5 satisfied the condition ; which is correct. The third question related
to the solution of the equation x5—4 x—16779=0. This time the child
remained four to five minutes without answering : finally he demanded with
some hesitation if 3 would not be the solution desired. The secretary having
informed him that he was wrong, Vito, a few moments afterwards, gave the
number 7 as the true solution. Having finally been requested to extract the
10th root of 282,475,249 Vito found in a short time that the root is 7.
"At a later date a committee, composed of Arago, Cauchy and others,
complains that ' the masters of Mangiamele have always kept secret the
methods of calculation which he made use of.' "1
There is another point on which something might have been learnt
from the study of so marked a group of automatists—utilisers of sub
liminal capacity—as these " prodigies " form. Their bodily charac
teristics might have been examined with a view to tracing such physical
concomitants as may go with this facility of communication between
psychical strata. We have, however, few data available for this pur
pose. Colburn inherited supernumerary digits, and Mondeux is
reported to have been hysterical. On the other hand the " prodigies "
of whose lives after childhood anything is known seem to have been
free from nervous taint. No one, for instance, could well be more
remote from hysteria than the elder Bidder ;—or than Mr. Bidder,
.Q.C., or Mr. Blyth, of Edinburgh, the best living English representa
tives of what we may call the calculating diathesis.
It is plain, then, that no support is given by what we know of this
group to the theory which regards subliminal mentation as necessarily
a sign of some morbid dissociation of psychical elements. Is there, on
the other hand, anything to confirm the suggestion which I have else
where made that,—inasmuch as the addition of subliminal to supra
liminal mentation may often be a completion and integration rather
than a fractionation or disintegration of the total individuality,—we are
likely sometimes to find traces of a more than common activity of the
} Scripture, op. cit., p. 17.
356 Mr.F. W. H Myers.
right or less used cerebral hemisphere? Finding no mention of ambidex
terity in the meagre notices which have come down to us of the
greater "prodigies," I begged Mr. Blyth and Mr. Bidder, Q.C., to tell
me whether their left hands possessed more than usual power. Mr.
Blyth's reply has been already quoted. I now quote Mr. Bidder's.
" Ravensbury Park, September 11th, 1891.
"As to ambidexterity. Of course I am ignorant of the train of thought
that led you to ask the question ; but oddly enough I am a very good
example of it. I am not aware that my father was ambidextrous ; nor are
any of my children, so far as I know. For myself, in all sports,—bowling,
throwing, fishing, tennis, racquets, &c.,--l almost invariably use the left
hand. I cannot throw to any purpose with the right. In cricket, however, I
bat with the right hand. In shaving, I shave one half of the face with the
left hand and the other with the right, in each case taking the part which
shaves forwards, so as to have no backward shaving. In writing I write
with the right hand, being so taught ; but some years ago I discovered that if
I let my left hand move unconstrainedly and without conscious thought as to
how it should form the letters, I could write with equal fluency, though not
so well formed letters. But the direction of the writing is reversed ; so that
it is requisite either to look through the paper or view it in a looking-glass
to read the writing. My left hand and nerve system seems to have learnt
by sympathy what the right had acquired by education and practice.
'' Further, I found that taking two pencils one in each hand I could write
simultaneously with both hands,—the two writings proceeding in opposite
directions. I have occasionally found since that other people could to some
extent do the same. I repeatedly tried very hard to write one word with
one hand and another with the other ;—but it won't do ; the result is always
a nondescript production of parts of both words,—something like the non
sense words in Alice in Wonderland. I enclose a specimen which will show
the simultaneous writing."
It thus appears that in the only two cases in which I have been
able to make inquiry there is somewhat more dextro-cerebral capacity
than in the mass of mankind.
If I have dwelt at some length on these arithmetical prodigies, it is
not, of course, because I regard this gift of subliminal computation as
a high form of genius, but because the definiteness of the achievements,
presents some vague and elusive problems in a comparatively manageable
form. Thus it is easier in the case of a Mangiamele than in the case
of a Dante to ask oneself with exactness which is the least improbable
of the conceivable answers,—all of them largely conjectural,—to the
question, " Where did the child get his genius?"—a question which the
evolutionist, though he cannot solve it, must not ignore.
It appears to me that the answers which have been implicitly or
explicitly given to such a question are reducible under four main heads.
I shall cite these in the order in which they push the required answer
further and further back. But the reader must remember that there
The Sublimitml Consciousness.
is absolutely no difference in point of the myitery involved between
one reply and another. All have to deal with the same ultimately
inexplicable facts, and the most Lamarckian of answers is in reality as
mystical as the most Platonic.
(1) First, then, I place what I have called the Lamarckian reply.
The eminent capacity of the individual under discussion was inherited
from the acquired capacities of self-improving ancestors. To this we
must here answer that even assuming acquired characteristics to be
inheritable, there were as a rule no such acquired capacities for our
prodigies to inherit. Mangiamele the father, the rough Sicilian,
peasant, who did not teach his son his letters ;—Mondeux the father,
the woodcutter of Tours, who did not teach his son the numerals ;—
these were not men who had developed their mathematical gifts as the
Lamarckian giraffe developed the bones of his neck. The only case
where heredity could be pleaded is that of the younger (not of the
elder) Bidder ;—unless we count under this head the pre-natal sugges
tion which Mr. Blyth believes to have been efficacious in his own and
his brother's case.
(2) Next comes the reply which I suppose would now be commonly
given, and which, to avoid the ambiguities of the word Darwinian, I will
call the protoplasmic solution. Mangiamele's gift, in this view, was a
sport or bye-product occurring in the course of evolution ;—a new
quality derived from old qualities not obviously resembling it. It was
one of those favourable spontaneous variations of which natural selection
has often been able to take advantage ;—and whose occasional unpre
dictable occurrence has raised our race to its present level. Now the
cause of such sports, I need not say, Darwin expressly leaves unex
plained. All that he says is that to sport in this way is characteristic
of living matter. Sudden differentiation in unpredictable directions
must, in short, be a latent capacity of protoplasm ; and the explana
tion of Mangiamele's gift is virtually referred to the nature of the stock
of protoplasm with which his earliest ancestors started operations.
This answer has the logical advantage over the Lamarckian answer,
(which, of course, at bottom is protoplasmic also,) that, being hardly
more than a mere restatement of the facts, it cannot help being true so
far as it goes. But it is not, and was not propounded by Darwin as
being, an explanation of the ultimate source of faculty, but only of
certain incidents in its terrene development.
(3) In direct contrast to these terrene explanations comes the pre-
terrene explanation of Plato. A man learns geometrical truths easily,
Plato said, because in reality he is only remembering them. He is
remembering them beause he learnt them originally in the ideal world,
before his incarnation " in this body, which is our tomb." One wishes
that Plato had had the facts now before us to work up into a dialogue,
358 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
— Dase, or Inspiration." If he thought his hypothesis of reminiscence
necessary in order to explain the mental effort of an intelligent adult
mastering what were then the startling novelties contained in the first
books of Euclid,—what would he have said of Pascal, who wais »W
&6vp( fieyd\a epya,—-sported with cosmic laws in childish play ;—of Gauss
flinging down his slate with the answer alone written upon it,—Da
liegt es !—the moment that the master had dictated the question
which was to occupy the class for an hour ;—or above all, as I say, of
the crass and stolid Dase,—-as it were an idiot supported from the
Prytaneum, to declare secrets which the gods had hid from men ?
(4) Lastly, the view which I am here suggesting is in some sort a
renewal of the old Platonic " reminiscence," in the light of that fuller
knowledge which is common property to-day. I hold, of course, that
in the protoplasm or primary basis of all organic life there must have
been an inherent adaptability to the manifestation of all faculties
which organic life has in fact manifested. I hold, of course, that sports
or variations occur, which are at present unpredictable, and which
reveal in occasional offspring faculties which their parents showed no
signs of possessing. But I differ from those who hold that the faculty
itself thus manifested is now for the first time initiated in that stock
by some chance combination of hereditary elements. I hold that it is
not initiated, but only revealed ; that the " sport " has not called a
new faculty into being, but has merely raised an existing faculty above
the threshold of supraliminal consciousness.
This view, if pushed back far enough, is no doubt inconsistent with
the way in which evolution is generally conceived. For it denies that
all human faculties need have been evoked by terrene experience. It
assumes a subliminal self, with unknown faculties, originated in some
unknown way, and not merely by contact with the needs which the
terrene organism has had to meet. It thus seems at first sight to be
introducing a new mystery, and to be introducing it in a gratuitous
way.
To this I reply in the first place that so far as the origin of man's
known powers is concerned, no fresh mystery is in fact introduced. All
human powers, to put the thing broadly, have somehow or other to be
got into protoplasm and got out again. You have to explain first how
they became implicit in the earliest and lowest living thing, and then
how they have become thus far explicit in the latest and highest. All
the faculties of that highest being, I repeat, existed virtually in the
lowest, and in so far as the admitted faculties are concerned the
difference between my view and the ordinary view may be said to be
little more than a difference as to the sense which that word virtually
is here to assume.
The real difference between the two views appears when the facul
The Subliminal Consciousness. 359
ties which I have called unknown come to be considered. If they are
held to be real, my view is certainly the better able to embrace them.
I hold that telepathy and clairvoyance do in fact exist ;—telepathy, a
communication between incarnate mind and incarnate mind, and per
haps between incarnate minds and minds unembodied ;—clairvoyance, a
knowledge of things terrene which overpasses the limits of ordinary
perception,—and which perhaps also achieves an insight into some other
than terrene world. And these faculties, I say, cannot have been
acquired by natural selection, for the preservation of the race, during
the process of terrene evolution. In some sense they pre-existed ; they
were (as we may phrase it) the products of pre-terrene evolution. And
if they were so, man's other powers may well have been so also. Per
ception pre-existed ; and the specialised forms of terrene perception
were not real novelties in the universe, but imperfect adaptations of
protoplasm to the manifestation of the indwelling general perceptive
power. The mathematical faculty, for instance (I say with Plato), pre
existed. When Dase solved all those sums in his head, his power of
solving them was not a fresh development in his ancestral stock, but
depended on the accidental adaptation of his organism to the manifes
tation of the indwelling computative power. I do not indeed venture
to follow Plato in his ontogenetic argument,—his claim that the
individual computator has had already an individual training in com
putation. I do not say that Dase himself learnt or divined the multi
plication-table in some ideal world. I only say that Dase and all the
rest of us are the spawn or output of some unseen world in which the
multiplication-table is, so to speak, in the air. Dase trailed it after
him. as the poet says of the clouds of glory, when he "descended into
generation " in a humble position at Hamburg.
In him and in his ancestors were many faculties which were called
out by the struggle for existence, and became supraliminal. But there
were many faculties also which were not thus called out, and which
consequently remained subliminal. To these faculties, as a rule, his
supraliminal self could get no access. But by some chance of evolution,
—some sport,—a vent-hole was opened at this one point between the
different strata of his being, and a subliminal uprush carried his com-
putative faculty into the open day.
It is to work done by the aid of any such uprush that the word
" genius " may be most fitly applied. "A work of genius," indeed, in com
mon parlance, means a work which satisfies two quite distinct require
ments. It must involve something original, spontaneous, unteachable,
unexpected ; and it must also in some way win for itself the admiration
of mankind. Now, psychologically speaking, the first of these require
ments corresponds to a real class, the second to a purely accidental
one. What the poet feels while he writes his poem is the psychological
360 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
fact in his history ; what his friends feel while they read it may be a,
psychological fact in their history, but does not alter the poet's creative
effort, which was what it was, whether anyone but himself ever reads his
poem or no.
And popular phraseology justifies our insistence upon this subjective
side of genius. Thus it is common to say that " Hartley Coleridge "
(for example) " was a genius, although he never produced anything
worth speaking of." Men recognise, that is to say, from descriptions
of Hartley Coleridge, and from the fragments which he has left, that
ideas came to him with what I have termed a sense of subliminal up-
rush,—with an authentic, although not to us an instructive, inspiration.
The especial advantage of the study of arithmetical prodigies is that
in their case the subjective impression coincides closely with the objec
tive result. The subliminal computator feels that the sum is right, and
it is right. Forms of real or supposed genius which are more interest
ing are apt to be less undeniable.
In conclusion we must dwell for a moment upon another and
higher kind of internal visualisation. I have spoken of the arithmetical
prodigy as possessing a kind of internal blackboard, on which he
inscribes with ease and permanence his imaginary memoranda. But
blackboards are not the only surfaces on which inscriptions can be
made. There are other men,—prodigies of a different order,—whose
internal tabula is not of blackened wood, but of canvas or of marble ;
—whose inscriptions are not rows of arabic numerals but living lines of
colour, or curves of breathing stone. Even the most realistic art is
something more than transcript and calculation ; and for art's higher
imaginative achievements there must needs be moments of inward
idealisation when visible beauty seems but the token and symbol of
beauty unrevealed ;—when Praxiteles must " draw from his own heart
the archetype of the Eros that he made " ;—when Tintoret must feel
with Heraclitus that " whatsoever we see waking is but deadness, and
whatsoever sleeping, is but dream."
It would be easy to quote many a passage in which these gifted
yisualisers have described, more impressively than Colburn or Bidder,
the unexpected, the incalculable flashing of the perfect conception
upon the eye within. But such self-revelations, however genuinely
expressed, might only produce upon the reader a feeling of grotes-
queness or confusion. For, as I have said, the subjective sensation of
triumphant genius is by no means always coincident with the corre
sponding objective effect. In the diaries of the luckless Haydon we
should find ample utterance of the sense of complete achievement. In
the sonnets of Raphael or of Michael Angelo we should find all moods
of haunting search, of deep desire ;—descending to that profoundest
note which declares that sovereign sweetness is in itself incompatible
The Subliminal Consciousness. 361
•with the life of earth ;—che soverchia dolcezza a morte mena. It
would, I repeat once more, be useless for the psychologist to attempt
to classify works of genius on the basis of their objective merit. In
his eyes the word genius will have the truest meaning when it depends
wholly on the mind's mode of interior working,—when it is made to
include phenomena as disparate as Mr. Higton's vision of the weight
of the hides, and Lady Eardley's warning voice, and Zerah Colburn's
answers to multiplication-sums, along with Sappho's odes, and
Beethoven's sonatas, and the Faun of Praxiteles ;—aye, and even,
—what seems still stranger,—along with the poorest art which has
carried with it a genuine sense of inspiration,—along with Smith's
verses to Miss Jones, and Miss Jones' water-colour sketch of her
guardian angel. Only let those of us who may have shared this glow
remember that our uprush of subliminal faculty may be of no deeper
interest to mankind than was Mr. Higton's equally inspired vision of a
clock-face, which revealed to him, while his watch was in his pocket,
that it was 11.25 a.m. The only reward of inspiration which we are
entitled to look for is the sense of inspiration itself.
Das Lied, das aus der Kehle dringt,
1st Lohn, der reichlich lohnet.
And if these cautions are needed in the realm of Art, where there
are at least some accepted canons to which our productions must
conform, how much more necessary will they be in those wider, more
emotional fields in which inspiration—subliminal or extraneous—is so
often claimed,—in the realms of Love and Faith ! But the questions of
the subliminal guidance of emotion, of the origins of prophetic utterance,
although not alien to my general subject, lie outside of my present
intention. I am dealing here with the subliminal self as it operates
within the limits of our familiar and definite capacity, and adds to that
capacity, which seemed strictly conditioned by the very structure of
our organism, a new vividness or energy of its own. I have urged
that the spectrum of our ordinary consciousness,—even without con
sidering its possible prolongations beyond either limit,—may undergo
a general accession of luminosity from the uprush from some central
glow. Bright lines may thus be brightened ; and dark absorption-bands
may disappear. And there is ground for serious hope in the thought
that this intensification of radiance may be the destiny of the faintest
as of the most brilliant luminary. The difference between human spirit
and spirit, as between blazing sun and sun, is a difference of magnitude
rather than of constitution. One star may differ from another star in
glory ; but all are fashioned of the same primal elements, and kindled
with the same cosmic fire.
2 B
362 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Chapter IV.
Hypermne8ic Dreams.
In the chapter just concluded we have been reviewing certain indi
cations of subliminal operation which are discernible in ordinary
waking life, and within the range of man's familiar and admitted
powers. It has been shown that sensory perceptions of more than
normal acuteness, sensory memories of more than normal distinctness
and tenacity, are sometimes initiated or preserved beneath the threshold
and outside the control of the waking supraliminal Self. And I have
urged that we thus obtain glimpses of an activity which I believe to
be constantly going on within us;—of a source of light (to return to a
previous metaphor) which is able to add illumination to the bright lines
of our familiar spectrum, as well as to prolong that spectrum beyond
both its physiological and its psychological limits.
The main interest of our inquiry will probably be found in excur
sions into regions of faculty as yet unmapped and unregistered. But
before passing on to telepathy and clairvoyance we must complete the
task of the last chapter by reviewing those subliminal indications of
quickened sensory perception, intensified memory, which are discerned
during the dominance of that second phase of personality which we are
wont to class as equally normal with our waking life.
The definition of deep is a task which the physiologist prudently
declines to attempt. The causes which lead to its onset;—the condi
tion of the brain and other organs during its persistence;—the precise
way in which it produces its restorative or other effects ;—all these are
still matters of hypothesis, not of knowledge. And the old difficulties
of explanation have been increased,—to an extent which has not yet
been grasped by the writers of ordinary text-books,—by all these recent
experiments in the induction of hypnotic slumber. " Accumulation of
waste products," "de-oxygenation," "periodicity" ;—causes such as these,
whatever their importance in inducing ordinary nocturnal sleep, can
hardly be invoked to explain a long deep slumber produced by mere
suggestion in an unfatigued subject. Nor can any facile simplification,
on one side or on the other, extricate us from this dilemma. If, with the
Salpetriere school, we pronounce the hypnotic trance a morbid pheno
menon, quite different from true sleep, we are met by a series of
sleep-states too continuous for any logical break ;—till at last we should
have to call the baby's slumber in the cradle a morbid thing, because
its mother has used monotonous stimulation in the form of rocking and
pats. If on the other hand, with the school of Nancy, we assert that
hypnotic trance is virtually identical with ordinary sleep, the difference
being only in degrees of " suggestibility,"—then we have but imported
The Subliminal Consciousness. 363
into our conception of ordinary sleep that unsolved enigma of " sugges
tion " of which so much has already been here said.
From the point of view taken in these papers such attempts at
simplification as either of these must necessarily be crude and inadequate.
We are regarding the human individuality as a practically infinite
reservoir of personal states ;—as a kaleidoscope which may be shaken
into a thousand patterns, yet so that no pattern can employ all the
pieces contained in the tube. We shall therefore regard sleep as a
phase of personality neither more nor less natural, neither more nor less
explicable, than vigilance ;—natural or explicable, indeed, only in the
historical or evolutionary sense, as having played a part of manifest use
fulness in the conservation of living races.
And looking to the origins of animal life we shall recognise that
the permanent state of lower organisms, the primary state of higher
organisms, is one much more analogous to sleep than to waking. So
long as food comes without seeking there is no need to watch or wake.
And as sleep precedes vigilance so do dreams precede thought. Such
consciousness, that is to say, as may exist in organisms in which the
alternation of waking and slumber is not yet definitely established
is likely, in its confused dimness, in its imperfect response to external
stimuli, to resemble our slumber-sense of cold or pressure far more
closely than it resembles the alert attention of our daylight hours.
Then comes into play that agency—call it what you will—the
evolutionary nisus—the creative Power—the "Jupiter ipse " implanting
in each organism the capacity of developing new faculties under new
stress,—
Nec torpere gravi passus sua regna veterno.
When food must be sought, we learn to seek it ; to seek it first by aid
of one sense-organ after another, specialised from a diffused sensibility
according to our need ;—and to seek it afterwards by aid of inward
reflection,—of those molecular cerebral changes which make the output
of muscular movement in a Stephenson more effective in food-produc
tion than the apparently greater output of the navvy working on his
railway's track.
As evolution advances, then, we in some sense become more and
more awake. Our secondary condition diverges further and further
from our primary, by growing adaptation to the more complex needs
of life. But nevertheless we retain the habit of reversion to our
primitive phase of personality ; occasional periods of the slumber in
which our bodies were first framed are needful for their due main
tenance and renewal. Why this should be so,—whether it always
must be so,—we cannot say. We have no clue to the forces which
shake the kaleidoscope of our psychical being now into this pattern,
now into that.
2 b 2
Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
But although our suggested mode of regarding sleep cannot itself
claim to be regarded as an explanation, it may be serviceable in guarding
us against explanations of an incomplete or one-sided kind. Thus, for
instance, however important may be the function of sleep in facilitating-
the elimination of the products of nervous waste, we shall not think it
probable that the accumulation of such products in the system should
bo the sole inducing cause of sleep. Consequently there will be nothing
to surprise us in the discovery that sleep can be induced by hypnotic
suggestion at moments when no lactates, tfec, can have accumulated in
the system.
Again, important as the influence of periodicity may be in inducing
sleep, we shall not be willing to assume that sleep is necessarily a
periodical function. It will in no way surprise us to find that sleep in
certain subjects can be almost indefinitely prolonged, if food—and often
if very little food—is supplied to the sleeper, or placed within reach of
his automatic or subliminal impulse to grasp it. Attaques de sommeil
are becoming familiar now ; but it should he remembered that they
were once as scornfully and even cruelly disbelieved as was the mesmeric
trance itself.i In our view, on the other hand, such prolonged slumbers
will form a not specially surprising reversion to the habit of pre-human
ancestors, aiid to our own earliest phase of physical and psychical being.
As regards the prolongation of the waking state, on the other hand,
the influence of this view of sleep will be mainly negative. I mean that we
shall not consider it so impossible as it appears on ordinary physiological
theories of sleep that some kind of active state should be abnormally
extended ;—that some variety, whether evolutive or dissolutive, of
vigilance should be developed which is less prone to frequent reversion
to the primary slumber.
We shall not be surprised, then, to meet with states either of
ecstacy or of disease in which ordinary sleep seems for the time to be
superseded. With ecstacy we shall have to deal later on ;—a striking
example of prolonged vigilance in mania may be quoted from the well-
known alienist, Sir J. Crichton Browne.2
" Nothing can well be more unexpected than the replaceability of
sleep by maniacal excitement. Chronic maniacs are in a state of perpetual
mental and bodily restlessness. They talk to themselves, they chatter
throughout the night, they dance, clap their hands, gesticulate, indulge
in shouts of laughter, or tear their clothing to pieces. The length
of time during which they can continue to discharge nervous energy
uninterruptedly in this excessive and almost semi-convulsive manner
i See Zoitt, Vol. XII., p. 381, tqq., where Elliotson's robust and manly oommon-
«enso once more showed its superiority over the professional prejudice of his time.
5 West Riding Lunatic Asylum Medical Reports, Vol. V., p. 2S8.
The Subliminal Consciomness. 365
is truly astonishing. I have had under my care a chronic maniac
who worked energetically as a navvy all day, and who sat up in bed
talking and shouting all night, for six months together. During
these six months he was never known to sleep. By day he manifested
not the slightest drowsiness, and by night he was never caught
nodding. The night attendants visited him hourly, and at every
visit he was in the same position, propped up in his bed, and at
the same occupation, pouring out vociferously a torrent of incoherence.
Not less remarkable than the length of time during which uninter-
mitting excitement can be kept up in chronic mania is the smallness of
the effect which the long-sustained and severe exertion and the pro
tracted sleeplessness exert upon the bodily health. Exhaustion is rare
in chronic mania. The man to whom I have alluded had not lost
weight after his six months' noisy vigil."
The condition here described is assuredly more remote than either
prolonged fasting, prolonged natural sleep, or prolonged hypnotic trance,
from the ordinary physiological current of man's existence. It is one
of the obscure hints which reach the physician from many quarters
that we are dealing with a machine whose original motive power
is in fact considerably greater than its ordinary operation would lead us
to suppose.
In our present discussion, however, which is concerned with the
nature of sleep only on its psychological side, the main interest lies in
the analysis of such manifestations of thought or sensation as the sleeping
state affords. And to begin with, our conception of sleep as no mere
abeyance of waking activities, but rather as a phase of personality with
characteristics definitely its own, will lead us to set aside as fallacies
various current notions as to the nature of dreams. Thus it is often
supposed that the dreams which are in themselves the most vivid will
also be the best remembered ;—and that such dreams will occur in states
of imperfect sleep. To this we shall reply that, on the analogy of other
severances of personality, we shall expect that the impressions carried
from one phase into another are likely to be the confused impressions
of transitional states ; and that the deeper and more characteristic
the experience of any subliminal state may be, the more unlikely is it
to pass into the supraliminal chain of memory,
Somewhat similarly we shall refuse to take for granted, as is com
monly done, that dreams cannot possibly be anything more than echoes
•or fragments of waking experience, fantastically combined. Such an
assumption implies what we altogether deny ;—that the supraliminal
personality is identical with the true Self,—that the supraliminal chain
of memory is the only coherent or continuous chain. Our minds, on
the other hand, will be absolutely open as regards the possible content
of dreams ; and we shall desire that dreams should be subjected to
366 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
an analysis far more searching than they have as yet received from
any quarter.
One great general lesson the world may be said to have learnt
from dreams. Dreams, says Mr. Herbert Spencer, " are the experi
ence out of which the conception of a mental self eventually grows."
Only so soon, that is to say, as the savage realises that he has
not been out hunting in bodily form during sleep,—" as this supposed
duplicate, once thought of as like the original in all things, becomes
gradually modified by the dropping of physical characters irreconcilable
with the facts, does the hypothesis of a mental self, as we understand
it, become established." i
Extending this remark in the direction which later knowledge
suggests, we may say that just as some slight dissociation of elements
habitually associated in supraliminal activity was thus necessary in
order to enable the savage to conceive even of a supraliminal Self,—
so for us also the more complex dissociations involved in somnambulism^
hypnotic trance, &c., are necessary in order to enable us to conceive of
that completer self of which the supraliminal self is only a partial
manifestation.
Looked at in this wide and general manner, dreams have afforded
to minds at every stage of culture some kind of permanent suggestion
of possibilities lying outside the familiar course of things. But when
we come to anything like detailed analysis, we find the field almost
unworked. The shallower dreams, if I may so term them,—those
which occur in disturbed sleep, or at the moment of waking,—have
received some ingenious explanations ; but little attention has been paid
to the deeper dreams,—those which occur, (as the dreamer believes,) in
profound sleep, and sometimes leave upon waking hours an impression
of reality which the confused fancies of fever, or the nightmares of
indigestion, cannot rival.
And there is of course this difficulty,—that the quality of any given
dream can be estimated only by the dreamer ; while of all waking;
memories the memory of dreams is (and in our view inevitably) the
most uncertain and evanescent. This difficulty, however, which at first
seems as though it must infect all conclusions with the observer's own
subjectivity, can be overcome by a simple expedient. Let a man
register all those dreams whose quality impresses him ; and let him
then observe whether such dreams, when they admit of confirmation,
are actually confirmed by fact. They are capable of being thus con
firmed whenever the dream incidents are such as subsequently to show
coincidence—or want of coincidence—with some event, past, present, or
future, which was unknown to the dreamer's waking self. All that is
i PrincipUs ofSociology, Vol. I., p. 157.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 367
needed is that a man who attaches importance to any of his dreams
should make immediate record of any dream which, on subjective
grounds, he thinks likely to belong to a clairvoyant or coincidental class.
If all the dreams which he intends to count are thus recorded before
their fulfilment or non-fulfilment is known,—and if he scrupulously
abstains from counting any dream not thus recorded, however strikingly
it may be fulfilled,—we shall be able to calculate, with no fear of
exaggeration, the proportion of coincidences between dream and fact.
For any mistakes which he may make in his subjective estimate of his
dreams will, on the supposition that all the coincidences are due to
chance, be exactly as likely to tell against him as for him,—while, on
the supposition that a certain class of his dreams are really veridical,
his mistakes in distinguishing beforehand the true members of this
class will tell wholly against him. And if his impressive dreams,
whenever they involve a possible coincidence with provable fact,
do so coincide, he will have some reason for attaching importance
to other dreams subjectively similar, but less capable of definite
testing.
There is another way of gauging a dream's intensity,—of picking
out a small and significant class. Dreams which have led to action are
extremely rare,—rarer, probably, even than waking hallucinations.
Most of the dreams referred to in this chapter belong to that group.
The dreamer has actually done something in waking hours as a direct
result of his nocturnal experience.
In practice it will be found that although many men, and often,
dream confused dreams, few men, and rarely, dream dreams to which
they can attach importance even on purely subjective grounds. It
would be an easier thing than at first appears to keep a record of all
such dreams as were not easily explicable by fragmentary memories or
corporeal conditions ; and such a record would, even apart from the
coincidental class of dreams, yield much of value to the psychologist.1
If, at least, our waking life,—our supraliminal personality,—is only
one of many possible patterns into which the elements of our fuller
individuality may arrange themselves ;—those elements not being all of
them employed in any one of such patterns ;—then we may fairly
expect that even the simplest and most primitive pattern may reveal
elements absent from other patterns, or at least may teach us, by its
new arrangements, something fresh as to the elements already known.
And here we may, I hope, find it useful to have already discussed
some of the subliminal phenomena revealed by hypnotism, before
i Dr. Nelson, of Johns Hopkins University, with a statistical object of a different
kind, has recorded over 1,000 dreams of his own per annum for some years. (American
Journal of Psychology, Vol. I., Part 3, p. 374.)
368 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
approaching the subject of spontaneous sleep. For spontaneous sleep
—whether or not it differs from hypnotic sleep (as Liébeault maintains)
only in being the result of self-suggestion instead of suggestion from
without,—is at least in some sense a halfway house between hypnotic
trance and waking life ; and we may well begin our inquiry into the
sensory and mental phenomena of common sleep by considering what
phenomena could really be classed as intermediate between those of
vigilance and those of induced somnambulism.
I am of course here speaking of positive, not of merely negative
characteristics ;—not of the abstraction from waking interests, the
subsidence of muscular energy, which are common to most forms of
sleep and trance, but of the additions to faculty which those states
reveal ; whether those additions take the form of an increased command
over the present, the future, or the past.
1. To take first an increase of power in the present,—of grasp over
the world without or over the sensory centres within. We have
observed that in the hypnotic trance there is often a heightening of
sensory faculty, in its two main forms of external and internal hypenes-
thesia,—a quickened capacity, say, for reading small print or discerning
minute specks on a card,—and also a quickened " mind's eye " crea
tivity,—a power of projecting hallucinatory images more vivid than any
which waking effort could induce. We shall expect, then, that in
dream or somnolence there will Iie some trace of added power of this
kind ;—something seen as waking eyes cannot see, or imagined as
waking attention cannot imagine.
2. And to take next another power which, exercised of course in the
present, becomes manifest by its influence upon the future, we know
that ideas or suggestions carried over from the hypnotic into the
normal state often exert a much stronger and more permanent influence
than similar statements or recommendations would exert if originally
made to the waking subject. We shall therefore think it probable that
some dreams may in this respect resemble hypnotic suggestions, and
may influence waking life in a way which the waking personality
cannot justify or explain.
3. Passing on now to memory, or control over the past, the
character of sleep,—roughly intermediate between waking life and the
hypnotic trance,—will suggest that its memory will have links of almost
equal strength with the memory of waking life and the memory of
hypnotic states. Thus far, then, it will resemble the hypnotic memory
—which is apt to be the more comprehensive of the two ;—although we
cannot, of course, assume that it will be identical with that memory.
4. And yet again ; it is not only over periods rendered ecmnesic
—cut out of waking memory—by hypnotic trance that we may expect
dream-memory to extend some kind of sway. Ecmnesic periods of
The Subliminal Consciousness. 369
other kinds occur ; gaps of memory, for instance, sometimes follow upon
concussion of the brain. It will be interesting to see whether the
memory of any of these periods is recoverable in sleep.
5. But apart from hypnotic trance, from ecmnesic lacune, may there
not, we may well ask, be something else in dream - memory which
waking memory does not contain 1 In our discussion of " The
Mechanism of Genius " we saw that even during our ordinary waking
life there was something within us which observed more, felt more,
remembered more than the supraliminal consciousness by itself could
ever tell us. May not dream recall to us some of those deeply-hidden
impressions which form the material on which genius works ? Dream
often recalls to us facts of our waking life which we have known and
forgotten. May it not also recall to us facts which our supraliminal
selves have never known 'I
6. Lastly,—and giving to our anticipations above-mentioned a more
extended form,—we shall expect that those supernormal powers which
emerge with difficulty through the vigorous but superficial current of
ordinary waking life will show more frequently at the surface through
the stiller waters of sleep. Telepathy, clairvoyance, premonition ;—
powers like these, if they exist in us anywhere, must surely leave some
traces upon our dreams. I must, however, for the present postpone
inquiry into these points ; since the verification of the five previous
suggestions as to what may be anticipated from sleep and dreams will
afford more than enough material for this chapter.
(1) First, then, as to the haightening of sensory faculty in sleep or
dream. There seems at first sight something of paradox in expecting
hyperesthesia from somnolence ;—vivid sensation from a condition
usually described as a progressive dulling or subsidence of one sense
after another. And, naturally, it will be in the generation of internal
rather than in the perception of external imagery that we may expect
to find the closed eye active,-—.
opavra \apirpbv iv ctkotw vtopavr ucppiv.
There is in fact a phenomenon, by no means uncommon, and very
conspicuous, which, like many other human phenomena whose interest
is scientific rather than therapeutic, remained unnoticed until a very
recent date. Haillarger in France and Griesinger in Germany (both
about 1845) were among the first to call attention to the vivid images
which rise before the internal vision of many persons, between sleep
and waking. M. Alfred Maury, the well-known Greek scholar and
antiquary, gave to these images a few years later the title of illusions
hypnagogiqucs, and published a remarkable series of observations upon
himself. Mr. Galton has further treated of them in his Inquiry into
Human Faculty ; and Cases will be found in Phantasms of the Living,
Vol. I., pp. 390, 474, &c.
370 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
These visions may be hypnopompic as well as hypnagogic ;—may
appear, that is to say, at the moment when slumber is departing as well
as at the moment when it is coming on ;—and in either case they are
closely related to dreams ; the " hypnagogic illusions " or pictures
being sometimes repeated in dream (as with Maury), and the hypno
pompic pictures consisting generally in the persistence of some dream
image into the first moments of waking. In either case they testify to
an intensified power of inward visualisation at a very significant
moment ;—a moment which is actually or virtually one of sleep, but
which yet admits of definite comparison with adjacent momenta of
waking. We may call the condition one of cerebral or " mind's eye "
hyperesthesia,—an exalted sensibility of special brain-centres in
response to those unknown internal stimuli which are always giving;
rise to similar but fainter inward visions even in broadly-waking hours.
For those who are already good visualisers such phenomena as these,
though striking enough, present no quite unique experience. For bad
visualisers, on the other hand, the vividness of these hypnagogic pictures
may be absolutely a revelation. For myself I may say that were it not
for an occasional flash of this kind, between sleep and waking, I should
be unable to conceive what good visualisation really is. The dim,
blurred, unstable images which are all that my waking will can summon
up are every now and then replaced in a moment of somnolence by a
picture—say of a wet hedge in the sun—which seems, to my hurried
glance, to be absolutely as clear and brilliant as the object itself could
be. The difference is like that between an instantaneous photograph
(and in natural colours !) and a dim dissolving view cast by a magic-
lantern on the point of going out. Many men must have had this
experience ; and must have been struck with the unguessed reserve of
faculty which for a moment was thus revealed.
Equally remarkable are the hypnopompic pictures, as I have
termed them ;—those, namely, which accompany the departure of sleep.
For it often happens (as in the cases cited by Mr. Gurney) that a figure
which has formed part of a dream continues to be seen as a hallucina
tion for some moments after waking ;—a strong testimony to the vivid
ness of dream-visualisation. As already observed, the generation of a
hallucinatory figure (however useless an achievement) marks probably
the highest point which man's visualising faculty ever reaches ; and it
is noteworthy that with many persons this point should be attained in
dream alone. Sometimes, it may be, this prolongation of hallucination
may best be described as an after-image, sometimes as the result of a
" suggestion " inspired by the dream.
The degree of acuteness of all the senses in dream is a subject for
direct observation, and even—for persons who can at all control their
The Subliminal Consciousness. 371
dreams—for direct experiment. I have elsewhere describedi some
efforts of my own to test my own power of visualisation in dream ;
with the result, as I must confess, that I have not found it superior
to my very low waking capacity. Some correspondents, however, report
a considerable accession of sensory power in dream. An impressive
dream, dreamt by Mrs. A. W. Verrall, of Cambridge, and at once care
fully recorded, had for its theme an intensification of each sense in turn.
Mrs. Verrall has poor musical perceptions, and when told in her dream
that the sense of sound was next to be exalted, she anticipated little
pleasure. The sensation came, however, as something entirely new,—.
as " very harmony, which I had only heard till then in echoes,—in th&
rhythm of verse, or in the sighing of the wind among the pine-trees.
My hearing was purified, not by the fulfilment of desire, but by the
creation of desire, which in its very birth attained fruition.'' Others
speak of the increased vividness of dramatic conception, or of what is
called in a hypnotic subject " objectivation of types." " In each of these
dreams," writes one lady, " I was a man ;—in one of them a low brute,
in the other a dipsomaniac. I never had the slightest conception of how
such persons felt or thought until these experiences." Another corre
spondent speaks of dreaming two disconnected dreams,—one emotional
and one geometrical,—simultaneously, and of consequent sense of con
fusion and fatigue.
In Mr. R. L. Stevenson's recent volume, Across the Plains, will be*
found a "Chapter on Dreams," which contains the description of the
most successful dream-experiments thus far recorded. By self-sugges
tion before sleep Mr. Stevenson can secure a visual and dramatic
intensity of dream-representation which has furnished him with the
motives for some of his most striking romances. His account, written
with admirable psychological insight, is indispensable to students of
this subject. Once more, the singular intensity which Iiapjnness may
assume in dreams,—" that thoughtless sense of joy bewildering " which
seldom recurs in waking life after early youth,—is probably familiar to
many of my readers. It seems analogous to the rise in spirits generally
observed in somnambulic states,—and perhaps to the ecstacy which
often seems to accompany some profound upheaval of subliminal strata.
I am not in this chapter dealing with spontaneous somnambulism ;
which, if regarded as a form of sleep, would of course supply many
illustrations to my present argument. But Iiefore we leave the
topic of dream-hypenesthesia, it may occur to the reader to ask
whether ordinary sleep affords any parallel to that form of exalta
tion of sight so often recorded in somnambulism which enables the
subject to " see in the dark " ;—to perform complex operations of sewing
or writing in what appears to others absolute night. This power
i S.P.S. Proceeding!, Vol. IV., p. 241.
372 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
however its highest manifestations may be explained, is in some cases
.almost certainly a form of hypenesthesia. Can we find anything of the
same kind in the condition of the eyes during ordinary sleep ? '
I believe that with most people, as with myself, there is no special
-clearness of vision, but rather at first some indistinctness, on opening
the eyes from sleep upon a dimly lit room. But we have several
cases where there is an impression of light on sudden awakening,
which may be a centrally initiated hallucination,—a simple phantasm
•prolonged from a dream ;—or may, on the other hand, be due to retinal
hypenesthesia.' We owe the following well-observed instance to Miss
Mason (the Inspectress of boarded-out children under the Local
Government Board), who is already known to our readers as a care
ful witness.
M. 652.
Whatcombe, Blandford, Jidy 12th, 1883.
Dear Mr. Myers,- -Faithful to my promise to you, I report that the
night before last, the window being open us usual, the wind suddenly rose,
shook my window and door, and awoke mo out of a sound sleep with a start.
I am not sure that I saw the whole room, but I saw the door and the window
from which the sound proceeded, or that very small part of the window
which was not (juite covered by a heavy curtain, and I saw the curtain.
The light faded almost immediately, and I then perceived that it was a
pitch dark night, no moon (which fact I had observed by looking out of my
window, as I always do, just before getting into bed), and that I could not
wee anything whatever with my eyes straining, not even where the window
was. The two clocks I can hear both struck one as I was trying to see
•any light.
As I saw the door, 1 also saw against it, as it seemed, a sort of lighter
coloured framework of bars, and as I knew that there was nothing of the
:sort in front, or beside the door, I concluded that it was a sudden dream,
and I had only fancied that I saw what I did. Having heard the clock, I did
not strike a light, and went to sleep again. I was awakened twice after in
the same way by the wind, but saw no light, nor any object whatever, though
•I tried my best. I had been asleep a shorter whilo each time, seemingly,
than the first.
When I woke at daylight, I discovered that the bars I thought I must
have dreamt of were those of the foot of my brass bedstead, and that they
:stood between me and the door exactly where I had seen them.
I have been staying here since the 5th inst., long enough to have become
.acquainted with the objects in my room, though not familiarised with them
as at home, and I am too absent and preoccupied to be very observant of
furniture. And I had never thought of observing, nor noticed, the relative
position from where I was of the foot of the bedstead and the door. I
have thus been accidentally submitted to the test we proposed, that a strange
i Compare Professor Joseph Le Conte's account of a supposed spatial representa
tion of the blind sjwt, seen on awakening. (American Journal of Psychology, Vol.
HI., No. 3, p. 3G4.)
The Subliminal Consciousness, 373
object should be placed, unknown to mo, in my room, so that on waking
suddenly in the dark, I could not fancy it unless I really saw it. Of course,
as I have no witness, this rests only on my word, but I am satisfied myself.
My room has two windows, having thick white blinds, and thick curtains
with thick lining. I saw only the window from which the noise came. The
curtain may have been blown a little aside, but at any rate I could not sou,
the window in another few seconds. Yours very truly,
M. H. Mason.
I quote this case, because I can find no letter experiment of a like
kind ; but the possibility of a reproduction of unconscious perception
is of course not here excluded.
I de not think that it is yet proved that it is the rested condition of
the retina which facilitates these vivid perceptions. Illusions hypnago-
giques occur when the retina is presumably fatigued ; and Mrs. Verrall
has had hyperesthetic perceptions of light in a dark bedroom (the dim
chink under the door seen brightly lit), on suddenly waking after a
short or restless sleep. I shall be glad to receive communications on
this subject.
In thus illustrating the reserves of faculty manifested to us by sleep
and dream I have chosen by preference certain forms of visual
hyperesthesia. The indications which are to be found of other
hyperesthesia;,— as where a dream foretells a malady whose onset has
not yet become perceptible to the waking self,—cannot, by the nature
of the case, admit of comparisons so definite as degrees of the sense
of sight afford. Enough, I hope, may have been said to suggest,
some lines of psychological experiment which offer little difficulty,
and may bear much fruit.
(2) The second characteristic of dream to which the discussion
leads us indicates a force or vividness of a different kind. The
permanent result of a dream is sometimes such as to show that the
dream has not been a mere superficial confusion of past waking
experiences, but has had an unexplained potency of its own ;—drawn,
like the potency of hypnotic suggestion, from some depth in our-
being which the waking self cannot reach. Two main classes of
this kind are conspicuous enough to be easily recognised ;—those,,
namely, where the dream has led to a " conversion " or marked religious
change, and those where it has been the starting-point of an "insistent
idea " or a fit of actual insanity.i The dreams which convert, reform,
change character and creed, have of course a primAfacie claim to be
considered as something other than ordinary dreams ; and their
discussion may be deferred till a later stage of our inquiry. Those,,
on the other hand, which suddenly generate an insistent idea of an
i See Dr. Fere in Brain for January, 1887.
374 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
irrational type are closely and obviously analogous to post-hypnotic
self-suggestions, which the self that inspired them cannot be induced
to countermand. Such is the dream related by M. Taine,i where a
gendarme, impressed by an execution at which he has assisted,
dreams that he is himself to be guillotined, and is afterwards so
influenced by the dream that he attempts suicide. Several cases of
this kind have been collected by Dr. Faure2 ; and Dr. Tissié, in his
interesting little work, Les Rcoes, has added some striking instances
from his own observation. I quote one of M. Faure's cases as a
sample, showing that in an apparently healthy subject an apparently
causeless dream may leave traces quite as persistent as any hypnotic
suggestion could implant from without. The dream is in fact a
self-suggestion of the most potent kind.
M. 26.
" A shop assistant, strongly built and regular in habits, awoke one morn
ing in a state of fever and agitation, perspiring copiously, anxious and
uneasy. He announced that all his savings were gone ; he was ruined, done
for. He said that on the previous day, while driving a van, he had got inUi
a quarrel with a coachman ; and that in the confusion his van had broken in
the front window of a mirror-maker. He would have to pay for the damage.
He told the story with great detail ; and still saw himself caught round the
neck by his adversary, who had struck him so violently that he had lost
•consciousness, and that they had had to carry him into a wine-merchant's
shop to bring him to. His wife assured us that when he returned home the
evening before he was in his usual condition ; that he had seen to his busi
ness, passed the evening at home, and gone to bed with no trouble upon
him.
" For three days X. continued in this frame of mind, unable to calm him
self for a moment, although he was taken to the actual place where the
imaginary accident had occurred. It was some days later before he
thoroughly understood that it had been a dream. And for a whole month he
would fall daily into the same confusion of memory ;—would sit down in
despair, crying and repeating ' We are ruined ! ' Even seven years after
wards he still had occasional crises of this nature, when he forgot the truth,
and lived for several days under the shock of this imaginary disaster."
We may compare with this a case where " the touch of a vanished
hand " appeared to bring physical relief to a dreamer.
M. 27.
From Mr. H. L. Holbrook, M.D., Editor of the Herald of Health.
13 and 15, Laight-street, New York, Jvly 30th, 1884.
In the spring of 1870, I had an attack of acute bronchitis, which was
very severe, and from the fact that I had had a similar attack every winter
and spring for several years, I felt considerable alarm, and believed it
i De Vintclliyence, Vol. I., p. 119.
». Archive} de Mldecine, Vol. I., 187G, p. 554.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 375
would ultimately become chronic, and perhaps terminate my life. As I was
then young, and had just entered on a career of labour which I wished to
follow for a long time, I became very despondent at such a prospect. In
this depressed condition I fell into a sleep which was not very profound, and
the following circumstance, which is still fresh in my mind, appeared to take
place. My sister, who had been dead more than 20 years, and whom I had
almost forgotten, came to my bedside, and said, '' Do not worry about your
health, we have come to cure you ; there is much yet for you to do in the
world." Then she vanished, and my brain seemed to be electrified as if by
a shock from a battery, only it was not painful, but delicious. The shock
spread downwards, and over the chest and lungs it was very strong. From
here it extended to the extremities, where it appeared like a delightful glow.
I awoke almost immediately, and found myself well. Since then I have
never had an attack of the disease. The form of my sister was indistinct,
but the voice was very plain, and I have never before had such an experience,
nor since. M. L. Holbrook, M.D.
Compare this again with Dr. Tissié's account of his hysterical
subject, Albert. " Every time," said Albert, " that I dream that I have
been bitten or beaten I suffer all day in the part attacked."i
A still more striking illustration may be drawn from the following
incident in the story of Krafft-Ebing's patient,2 lima S., already men
tioned :—
M. 28.
"May 6th, 1888.—The patient is disturbed to-day. She complains to the
sister of severe pain under the left breast, thinks that the professor has burnt
her in the night, and begs the sister to obtain a retreat for her in a convent,
where she will be secure against such attacks. The sister's refusal causes a
hystero-epileptic attack. [At length, in the hypnotic trance] the patient
gives the following explanation of the origin of the pain :—' Last night an old
man came to me ; he looked like a priest and came in company with a sister
of charity, on whose collet there was a large golden B. I was afraid of her.
The old man was amiable and friendly. He dipped a pen in the sister's
pocket, and with it wrote a W and B on my skin under the left breast. Once
he dipped his pen badly and made a blot in the middle of the figure. This
spot and the B pain me severely, but the W does not. The man explained
the W as meaning that I should go to the M church and confess at the W
confessional.'
" After this account the patient cried out and said, ' There stands the man
again. Now he has chains on his hands.'
" When the patient woke into ordinary life she was suffering pain in the
place indicated, where there wero ' superficial losses of substance, penetrating
to the corium, which have a resemblance to a reversed W and B,' with ' a
hypenemic raised spot between the two.' Nowhere in this peculiar neuro
trophic alteration of the skin, which is identical with those previously pro-
i Tissi(S, Let Rives, p. 121.
1 Hypnotism, by Krafft-Ebing, translated by Chaddock, p. 91.
376 Mr. F. W. H. Myers,
dueed experimentBlly, are there traces of inflammation." The pain and the
memory of the dream were removed by the doctor's suggestion ; but the dream
self-suggestion to confess at the M church persisted ; and the patient, with
out knowing why, did actually go and confess to the priest of her vision.
It is plain that we must be very slow to assume that any apparent
result of a dream proves that the phantasmal personage whom the
dream has shown possessed independent reality.
We must observe, however, that this self-suggestion in dreams,—-if
self-suggestion it be,—has sometimes worked itself out with a complete
ness exceeding anything that we know to have followed upon hypnotic
suggestion. It has induced no fictive murders, but death itself. We
have several cases where an announcement made in dream of the date
of the dreamer's decease has been punctually fulfilled. In Proceedings,
Vol. V., p. 291, Mrs. Sidgwick has quoted a case of this kind, where the
death was not traceable to any known disease. I give here a case
rendered still more perplexing by the repetition of the warning dream.
P. 27.
About 60 years ago a Mrs. Carleton died in the County of Leitrim. Sho
and my late mother were very intimate, and a few days after her death she
appeared to my mother in a dream, and said that never again even in dreams
should my mother see her except once, which would be 24 hours before she
should die. In March, 1864, my mother was living with my son-in-law and
daughter, Dr. and Mrs. Lyon, in Dalkey. On the evening of the 2nd March
my mother went to her room in very good spirits, laughing and joking with
Mrs. Lyon. That night, or rather early next morning, Dr. Lyon, hearing
some noise in my mother's room, awoke Mrs. Lyon, and sent her in to see if
all was right. She found my mother hanging half out of bed with an expres
sion of horror on her countenance. They got her into bed and all right.
Next morning she seemed in her usual health, and ate her breakfast as
usual, in bed, but heartily. On my daughter leaving her she asked the
servant to bring up water for a bath, which she took. She then sent for
Mrs. Lyon, and told her that Mrs. Carleton had, after a delay of 56 years,
at last come, and told her of her speedy death, and that she would die next
morning at the same hour as they had found her as described. She added
that she had bathed preparatory to her death to avoid having her body
washed. She now gradually began to sink, and died on the morning of the
4th March, at the hour she had said.
Dr. and Mrs. Lyon can corroborate this account. My mother always told
me she would once more, just before death, see Mrs. Carleton.
Thomas James Norms.
Dalkey, Ireland.
From Dr. Lyon, 1, Tempe'-terrace, Dalkey, Co. Dublin.
August 30th, 1883.
Tho late Mrs. Dorcas Norris, referred to in your letter, frequently in her
lifetime mentioned that a Mrs. Eliza Carleton had appeared to her in a dream,
»nd promised to appear once more to her 24 hours before her death. On the
The Subliminal Consciousness, 377
night before her death my wife went into her room, and found her almost
insensible ; next day she said that the warning she had been waiting for for
56 years had been given, and that she would die during next night, which
she did.
Richard St. John Lyon.
This narrative is capable of interpretation in any one of three ways.
As readers of these Proceedings know, I am myself quite willing to
ivdmit the supposition that the departed Mrs. Carleton really knew of her
friend's impending decease ;—and that both dreams were impressed
telepathically by a discarnate upon an incarnate mind. But we may also
suppose that the first dream, though purely accidental, made so deep
an impression that when it recurred—also by accident—it proved
tantamount to a self-suggestion of death. Or we may suppose that the
first dream was accidental, but that the second was symbolic, and in
duced by some organic sensation which preluded imminent death, but
was perceptible in sleep before it was felt on awakijtg.
There are, however, cases in which these dream-predictions of
death are made so long beforehand, and with so much latitude as to
the exact date fixed for the decease, that it is difficult to conceive that
a self-suggestion is bringing its own fulfilment. The following case, for
instance, may be a mere coincidence, as Mr. Browning suggests ; but if
it be more than a coincidence it is probably also more than a self-
suggestion.
P. 142.
Life and Letters of Robert Browning. By Mrs. Sutherland Orr. 1891, p. 277.
" In June, 1868, Miss Arabel Barrett (Mrs. Browning's sister) died of a
rheumatic affection of the heart. As did her sister seven years before, she
passed away in Mr. Browning's arms. He wrote the event to Miss
Blogden as soon as it occurred, describing also a curious circumstance
attendant on it : 19th June, 1868. You know I am not superstitious—here
is a note I made in a book, Tuesday, July 21st, 1863 : ' Arabel told me•
yesterday that she had been much agitated by a dream which happened the
night before Sunday, July 19th. She saw her [Mrs. Browning], and asked
"When shall I be with you 1 " The reply was, "Dearest, in five years," where
upon Arabella woke. She knew in her dream that it was not to the living
she spoke.' In five years, within a month of completion—I have forgotten,
the date of the dream and supposed it was only three years ago, and that
two had still to ran. Only a coincidence, but noticeable."
Our choice of explanation in such cases must largely depend upon
our view as to a problem discussed in another paper ;—the question,
whether phantasms of the departed do really in any case indicate a con
tinued knowledge of any terrene event or eventuality. But bs it noted
that if in cases like these we reject the more marvellous explanation,—
the hypothesis that the departed friend is actually warning the sur
vivor,—we are driven to admit that dream has an unequalled potency
2 c
37S Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
of suggestion,—is linked with those forces which we have already noted
as like springs in a river-bed, perturbing the stream of our being by
uprushes which we can neither fathom nor foresee.
(3) I pass on to the lessons which are to be learnt from the
peculiarities of dream-memory. The first point which I have marked
for notice need not delay us long. Most persons experienced in hyp
notism have come across incidents illustrating the affinity between
memory in dream and memory in hypnotic trance. We know of
course that dreams can be inspired by hypnotic suggestion ;—as when
M. de Rochas, in a case personally known to me, caused a young man
who was neglecting his parents to dream that he himself was a father,
and that his children were neglecting him. The salutary distress which
this dream inspired led to a more filial line of conduct. But there is a
connection closer than this. For without any suggestion to that effect,
acts accomplished in the hypnotic trance may be remembered in dream ;
—and remembered under the illusion which was thrown round them by
the hypnotiser. Thus Dr. Auguste Voisin suggested to a hypnotised
subject to stab a patient (really a stuffed figure) in a neighbouring bed.i
The subject did so; and of course knew nothing of it on waking.
But three days afterwards he returned to the hospital, complaining that
his dreams were haunted by the figure of a woman, who accused him of
having stabbed and killed her. Appropriate suggestion laid this ghost
of a doll.
Conversely, dreams forgotten in waking life may be remembered
in the hypnotic trance. Thus Dr. Tissi^'s patient, Albert, dreamt
that he was about to set out on one of his somnambulic "fugues,"
or aimless journeys, and when hypnotised mentioned to the physician
this dream, which in his waking state he had forgotten.2 The prob
able truth of this statement was shown by the fact that he did
actually set out on the journey thus dreamt of,—and that his journeys
were usually preceded and incited by remembered dreams.
I need not dwell on the existence, but at the same time the
incompleteness, of our dream-memory of waking life ; nor on the
occasional formation of a separate chain of memory, constructed from
successive and cohering dreams.
(4) My next anticipation was that dream-memory would occasionally
be found to fill up gaps in waking memory, other than those due to
hypnotic trance ;—such so-called "ecmnesic" periods, for instance, as
sometimes succeed a violent shock to the system,—and may even embrace
some space of time anterior to the shock. Such accidents, however,
1 Revue de VHypnotitme, June, 1891, p, 302.
2 Lea Rtvet, p. 135. This remarkable patient afforded examples of many forma
of communication of memory between different states of personality. See pji. 192-200
for a conspectus of these complex recollections.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 379
are so rare, and such dream-memory so hard to detect, that I mention
the point mainly for ' the sake of theoretical completeness ; and must
think myself fortunate in being able to cite a recent case of M.
Charcot's which affords an interesting confirmation of the suggested
view.i
M. 29.
A certain Madame D., a healthy and sensible woman of thirty-four, was
subjected on August 28th, 1891, to a terrible shock. Some scoundrel who
has not been identified entered her cottage and told her brusquely that her
husband was dead, and that his corpse was being brought home. This was
absolutely false ; but the news threw her into a state of profound agitation ;
and when some indiscreet friend, seeing the husband approach, cried out
Le noila ! the poor woman, supposing that the corpse was thus announced,
fell into a prolonged hysterical attack. After two days of raving she came
to herself ;—but had lost the memory of all events since July 14th ;—
i.e., since a date six weeks before the shock. This kind of retroactive
ecmnesia—inexplicable as it is—is known to occur sometimes after a
physical concussion. In Madame D.'s case the shock had been wholly
a mental one ; yet the forgetfulness continued, and had spread over all the
period up to M. Charcot's lecture on the case, December 22nd, 1891.
Madame D. was then possessed of full recollection of her life up to July 14th,
1891 ;—but she could recall no event whatever which had occurred since
that date. She endeavoured to continue her domestic duties ; but if she
wished to recollect anything she had to write it down instantly in a note
book, to which she constantly referred. For instance, she was bitten by a
dog believed to be mad. She instantly made a written note of the fact ;—
but except when actually referring to her note-book she retained no
recollection whatever of the bite or of her subsequent treatment in M.
Pasteur's laboratory.
Here, surely, was a case where it might have seemed that there had
been some absolute evanescence, absolute abolition of whatsoever traces
or tendencies may be held to constitute memory.
But one fact was observed which threw a decisive light upon this
puzzling case. The patients in the two beds adjoining Madame D.'s were
told to observe her at night. They reported that she was in the habit of
talking in her sleep ;—and that in the fragments of dreams thus revealed she
made frequent allusions to the mad dog's bite, and to other events which had
occurred during her ecmnesic period. This hint, of course, was enough for
M. Charcot. Classing her ecmnesia as a kind of prolongation of a hystero-
i?pileptic attack, he hypnotised the patient, and found that in the hypnotic
trance her memory for the ecmnesic period was absolutely intact. Post
hypnotic suggestions to remember the lost days are now slowly restoring the
poor woman to the possession of her whole past.
The fact which interests us here is the accidentally-discovered
persistence in dream of memories which had vanished from the supra
liminal consciousness. This shows that in dream Madame D. had got
• Revue de Afidecine, February, 1802.
2 C 2
380 Mr. F. W. H. Myer%
down—not merely to a stratum of confusion,—but to a state so far
deeper than the waking state that the memories of which shock or
hysteria had robbed the waking state were there found to he un
injured. This well-observed case may here stand as representative of
the gap-filling dream-memory which I ventured to anticipate. Other
cases will be noticeable when spontaneous somnambulism comes under
review,—in its complex relations with common dreams, hypnotism,
hysteria, and even epilepsy.
(5) I pass on to the still more novel and curious questions involved in
the apparent existence of a dream-memory which, while accompanying
the memory of ordinary life, seems also to have a wider purview, and
to indicate that the record of external events which is kept within us
is far fuller than we know.
Let us consider what stages such a memory may show.
I. It may include events once known to the waking self, but now
definitely forgotten.
II. It may include facts which have fallen within the sensory field,
but which have never been supraliminally " apperceived " or cognised
in any way.
III. It may indicate that from this wider range of remembered
facts dvesim-inferences have been drawn ;—which inferences may be
retrospective, prospective, or,—if I may use a word of Pope's with a new
meaning,—circumspective,—that is to say, relating not to the past or to
the future, but to the present condition of matters beyond the range
of ordinary perception. It is plain that inferences of this kind (if they
exist) will be liable to be mistaken for direct retrocognition, direct
premonition, direct clairvoyance ; while yet they need not actually
prove anything more than a perception on the part of the subliminal
self more far-reaching,—a memory more stable,—than is the perception
or the memory of the supraliminal self which we know.
Up to this point I propose to follow dream-memories in the present
chapter ;—up to this point, or rather into this dubious Iwrderland
where it is not certain whether supernormal powers—direct telepathy,
clairvoyance, prevision,—need or need not be invoked to explain the
phenomena of dream. As my reader knows, I shall not shrink from
invoking such powers, when they seem indispensable. But with our
present knowledge we must not assume them until other explanations
are exhausted ; and these hypermnesic dreams afford a means of drawing
our lines' of evidence more exactly ;—of relegating some marvellous
narratives to a realm of lesser marvel, and at the same time of
realising more clearly what it is in the most advanced cases which
ordinary theories are really powerless to explain.
I. As to the Jirsl of the above-mentioned categories no one will raise
any doubt. It is a familiar fact—or a fact only sufficiently unfamiliar
The Stibliminal Consciousness. .381
to be noted with slight surprise—that we occasionally recover in sleep
a memory which has wholly dropped out of waking consciousness. As
an example, we may take the dream of M. Delboeuf's, discussed in his
interesting book, Le Sommeil et leg Reves. In that dream the name
of the " Asplenium Ruta Muralis " figured as a familiar phrase. On
waking he puzzled himself in vain to think where he could have learnt
that botanical appellation. Long afterwards he discovered the name
" Asplenium Ruta Muraria" in his own handwriting,—in a little col
lection of flowers and ferns to which he had added their designations,
under the dictation of a botanical friend.
In this and similar cases the original piece of knowledge had at the
time made a definite impress on the mind,—had come well within the
span of apprehension of the supraliminal consciousness. Its reappearance
after however long an interval is a fact to which there are already
plenty of parallels. But the conclusion to which the cases about to be
cited seem to me to point is one of a much stranger character. I think
that there is evidence to show that many facts or pictures which have
never even for a moment come within the apprehension of the supra
liminal consciousness are nevertheless retained by the subliminal
memory, and are occasionally presented in dreams with what seems a
definite purpose.
The reader may remember that this claim has already been ad
vanced for crystal-vision.'- Miss X. saw in the crystal the announce
ment of the death of a friend ;—a piece of news which certainly had
never been apprehended by her ordinary conscious self. On referring
to the Times, it was found that the announcement was contained in a
sheet with which Miss X. had screened her face from the fire ;—so that
the words may have fallen within her range of vision, although they
had not reached what we call her waking mind.
This instance, was of value from the completeness of the proof that
the news could never have been supraliminally known at all ;—since it
was too important to have been merely glanced at and forgotten.
We shall find that in some dream-presentations the proof of supra
liminal ignorance is equally strong. Let us begin, however, with some
intermediate instances.
M. 30.
From Mr. A. Brockelbank, 20, Marsden-road, East Dulwich, S.E.
Jvly 14tfi, 1884.
Some years ago I lost a pocket-knife. I think it was some six months
afterwards—when I had forgotten entirely the loss of the knife, and the sub
ject never recurred to my memory in any way whatever—I dreamt one night
that it was in the pocket of a certain pair of trousers I had cast off, I suppose
i Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 507.
382 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
about the same time as the loss of my knife. I awoke, and lay awake some
time, till it occurred to me to prove the truth of my dream. I went upstairs
in search of the said pair of trousers, and sure enough there it was as I had
dreamt. The peculiarity of the above is this, that when I was awake and in
my senses no train of thought or retracing of my memory would carry me
back to the pair of trousers or to the knife, and it was quite as an experi
ment that I went in search of them.
Auoustus Brockelbank.
This is much such a flash of memory as might sometimes occur in
waking hours, for it is probable that Mr. Brockelbank had at one time
observed, that the knife was in that pocket. He may have very rapidly
forgotten the fact ; but nevertheless there was probably some supra
liminal knowledge for the dream to revive.
Next let us take another case of a lost object, where waking effort
soon after the loss fails to recall any supraliminal knowledge of the place
of deposit. This case was printed in the S.P.R. Journal, October, 18S9.
M. 31.
February 4th, 1889.
On reaching Morley's Hotel at 5 o'clock on Tuesday, 29th January, 1889,
I missed a gold brooch, which I supposed I had left in a fitting room at
Swan and Edgar's. I sent there at once, but was very disappointed to hear
that after a diligent search they could not find the brooch. I was very vexed,
and worried about the brooch, and that night dreamed that I should find it
shut up in a number of the Queen newspaper that had been on the table, and
in my dream I saw the very page where it would be. I had noticed one of
the plates on that page. Directly after breakfast I went to Swan and Edgar's
and asked to see the papers, at the same time telling the young ladies about
the dream, and where I had seen the brooch. The papers had been moved
from that room, but were found, and to the astonishment of the young ladies,
I said, "This is the one that contains my brooch " ; and there at the very
page 1 expected I found it.
A. M. Bickford-Smith.
We received a substantially similar account from Mrs. Bickford-
Smith's brother-in-law, Mr. H. A. Smith, who was a witness of the
trouble taken to find the brooch, both at the hotel, and by sending to
Swan and Edgar's, on the previous evening.
Yet here, be it observed, Mrs. Bickford-Smith had not had an
opportunity of herself inspecting the scene of the loss. Had she
returned to Swan and Edgar's before the dream, it is possible that the
sight of the books on the table might have revived some recollection of
seeing the brooch between the leaves of the Queen.
In the next case we cannot absolutely prove that Mrs. Yates did
not put the photographs in the drawer herself,—or casually see that
a parcel was in the drawer, if someone else put them there,—but the
fact of the long search, of the refusal to believe the dream, makes this
The Subliminal Consciousness. 383
explanation dubious. I may add that Mrs. Yates (known to Mr.
Gurney and myself) has had other experiences,—of a telepathic or
clairvoyant kind.
M. 315.
From Mrs. Yates, 44, Montpelier-road, Brighton. 1884.
About five years since I had sent me, by a friend, some unmounted
photographs of "The Stations of the Cross," taken in miniature from
frescoes at Rome, with the request that after inspection I would immediately
return them, as they were valued. I placed them in an envelope, and, as
I thought, in the secretaire, but on finishing a letter in which I intended to
return them, to my dismay, they were nowhere to be found. We searched
unceasingly, but fruitlessly. I submitted meekly to reproofs for my care
lessness, and so the matter passed out of thought.
More than a twelvemonth after I dreamt I took out a top short drawer in
a wardrobe that stood in a then unused dressing-room, and found the little
pictures. It will naturally be asked, "Did you not, the first thing in the
morning, ascertain whether your dream had anything in it, by removing the
drawer '/ " I did not. I mentioned it to my family, but it had no special
interest for them, and it was no more thought of ; but several months after,
on the removal of the wardrobe to another part of the house, the drawers
being taken out to lighten it, there, snugly enough, lay the envelope and the
little pictures '. I have them mounted and framed.
I subjoin another case of the same type.
M. 32.
The wife of the Rev. W. F. Brand, Emmorton, Harford Co., Mary
land, writes as follows, under date Findowsay, March 29th, 1884 :—
Mr. Brand asked me one day to give him the 100 dollars that he had
given me to put away for him. I felt startled, for I did not remember that
he had given them to me. However, I went to the place where I usually put
money and looked. It was not there. I looked in several other not
improbable places, but could not find it. By degrees I searched in every
drawer, and box, and corner, likely or unlikely, or even impossible, but
without success. Night came and I had not found it. I was much disturbed,
for the loss was a large one for us ; but even more than for the loss we were
concerned at the thought of anyone about me having taken it. Before
going to bed I prayed very earnestly that I might find it ; or, if not, that
suspicion might not fall upon an innocent person. In the course of the night
I dreamt that I found the money in the middle of a bundle of shawls that
had been put away during the summer, and carefully wrapped up for protec
tion against moths. In my daylight mind this place seemed to me an absurd
one to look in, but my dream impressed me a good deal, and I unfastened
the shawls—(I think they were sewed up)—and there was the lost treasure.
I should like to say whether my dream wakened me in the night, but I
do not remember. I did not look until the morning. I never have been
able to recall the fact of my putting the money away, nor, indeed, of Mr.
Brand giving it into my care, although it was an unusual thing for him to do
in those days.
384 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
I think Nydie's finding her ring by a dream was a more curious circum
stance than this with regard to my money, but I always am afraid to tell
both dreams, as they happened to Histers, lest one should discredit the other,
and we should be regarded as fanciful.i
Next let us take two cases where it seems quite impossible to
suppose that the seeker's supraliminal consciousness was ever aware of
the lost object's true position,—as the object would then at once have
been picked up. But on the other hand (as in Miss X.'s crystal case,
above cited), the object may have come within the seeker's field of
vision, and may thus have become enrolled in the subliminal memory.
M. (CI.) 303.
From Mrs. Crellin, 62, Hilldrop-crescent, N. 1884.
When a school girl I one day foolishly removed from my French teacher's
hand a ring, which I, in fun, transferred to my own. On removing it from
my finger just before going to bed, I found that a stone had fallen out of the
ring, and I was much troubled about it, especially as the ring had been
given to my teacher. We had four class rooms, and as I had been moving from
one to another in the course of the evening, I could not hope to find the lost
utone. I, however, in my dreams that night saw the stone lying on a
certain plank in the floor of our " drilling room," and on awaking I dressed
hastily and went direct to the spot marked in my dream, and recovered the
lost stone. This narrative has nothing thrilling in it, but its simplicity and
exactness may commend it to your notice.
Mr. Gurney adds :—In conversation with me, Mrs. Crellin described the
four class rooms as good sized rooms, which it would have taken a long time
to search over. She had been about in all of them in the course of the
evening. She is positive that she went quite straight to the spot. She is an
excellent witness.
Mrs. J. Windsor Stuart, of Foley House, Rothesay, N.B.,—well
known to me,—contributes a similar experience, but with the additional
point of interest that the ring was seen, not as it must have looked
when searched for, but glistening with dew, as it actually was at the
time of the dream. The incident is remote ; but Mr. Stuart remem-
liers being told of the incident in the same form much nearer the
actual date.
M. 33.
January 30th, 1892.
In the early autumn of 1864, my father (the late Captain Wm. Campbell)
was living at Snettisham Hall, Norfolk. We had had a croquet party. Among
the guests was a young man, George Gambier (nephew of the late artist,
Mr. Gambier Parry), at the time an agricultural pupil of the late Mr. Charles
Preedy, agent on the Hunstanton estate. As Mr. Gambier was about to
i This case, endorsed for publication, was found among Mr. Gurney's papers.
Mrs. Brand appears to have left her then address, so the date of her dream and the
particulars of her sister's dream cannot now be obtained.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 885
mount his horse and ride home, he suddenly said, " I have lost the opal out
of my ring. I would not have done this for the world ; it belonged to my
father. I remember seeing it as I rang the bell, on arriving, so that it must
have dropped out since I came here." We all set to work to hunt for the
stone by walking up and down the lawn in line, but without success.
There were two copper-beech trees, one just on the lawn near the house,
the other a little further back, above the embankment made in laying off the
lawn, but spreading a little over it. In the early morning I dreamed I saw
the stone shining under a leaf that had fallen from the tree, close to the edge
of the bank. I saw the whole scene vividly, the dew drops sparkling in
the sun, and the stone, in my dream. I woke so much impressed by my
dream that I at once got up and dressed, and went out. It was about six
o'clock on a lovely morning. I went out by the garden door directly on to
the lawn, and walked up to the tree, seeing everything as in my dream, and
found the stone without further looking, just under the leaf, as I had seen it.
Flora Stuart.
The three cases which follow were published by Professor Royce,
of Harvard (who knows the real names of the informants), in the Pro
ceedings of the American S.P.R., Vol. I., No. 4, March, 1889.i
"The first case," says Professor Royce, "comes to us from a lady
(M. B.) to whom we had applied for an account of another and more
remarkable experience, which she was unable, however, to relate to us
at present. As a compensation she gave us this less important
experience, of whose incidents she feels very sure " :—
M. 35.
A number of years ago I was invited to visit a friend who lived at a large
and beautiful country-seat on the Hudson. Shortly after my arrival I started,
with a number of other guests, to make a tour of the very extensive grounds.
We walked for an hour or more, and very thoroughly explored the place
Upon my return to the house I discovered that I had lost a gold cuff-
stud, that I valued for association's sake. I merely remembered that I wore
it when we started out, and did not think of or notice it again until my
return, when it was missing. As it was quite dark, it seemed useless to
search for it, especially as it was the season of autumn and the ground was
covered with dead leaves. That night I dreamed that I saw a withered
grape-vine clinging to a wall, and with a pile of dead leaves at the base.
Underneath the leaves, in my dream, I distinctly saw my stud gleaming.
The following morning I asked the friends with whom I had been walking the
previous afternoon if they remembered seeing any such wall and vine, as I
did not. They replied that they could not recall anything answering the
description. I did not tell them why I asked, as I felt somewhat ashamed of
the dream, but during the morning I made some excuse to go out in the
grounds alone. I walked hither and thither, and after a long time I suddenly
came upon the wall and vine exactly as they looked in my dream. I had not
the slightest recollection of seeing them or passing by them on the previous
i Since the American S.P.R. became a Branch of our Society, it has ceased to
publish separate Proceedings. No. 4 is the last Part published.
386 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
day. The dead leaves at the base were lying heaped up, as in my dream. I
approached cautiously, feeling rather uncomfortable and decidedly silly, and
pushed them aside. I had scattered a large number of the leaves when a
gleam of gold struck my eye, and there lay the stud, exactly as in my dream.
My friends refused to believe when I told them, and vowed there was some
trick about it, but as I had not told anyone the particulars of the dream,
that was impossible, and the matter will always be somewhat " uncanny " in,
my memory.
"The next case," continues Professor Royce, "depends upon a memory
of many years' standing, and, were it not for the cleverness and the
freedom from superstition which the narrator shows, I should lay no
stress upon the incident. But pretty plainly something of the sort did
occur to our correspondent, although, after twenty-five years, memory
is a poor guide, and obviously his story has been often told by him":—.
M. 36.
(From C. H. H., C.E., and Surveyor.)
California, December 26th, 1887.
Upwards of twenty-five years ago I was residing on the banks of the
Delaware river, in Sullivan co., State of New York. Before I left home
my only sister had presented me with a gold ring and told me to never
lose it. In a beautiful little grove near the bank of said river a lot of
us young folks had fixed up a scup, or swing, among the trees, and we
indulged in that pastime to that extent that the land immediately under the
swing became so lively that my foot would make a deep impression. One
beautiful moonlight night, after getting tired of swinging, I had seen my
best girl home, as in duty bound, and was returning along towards morning,
as usual, when I missed my ring. It gave me quite a shock when I made
that discovery ; the first impression I had was—there, I've lost that ring,
but it must be found, and that I would find it. Went home and searched
round my room and went to bed. Had a hazy sort of dream about the ring,
but nothing definite. Got up early and searched before breakfast. After
breakfast followed the direction we had taken the night before to the
swing, and from there to the young lady's home ; but found it not. In fact,
I searched diligently all day, and went to bed thinking very seriously of
the ring. Along towards morning had a very impressive dream. I saw
the ring, covered by a little ridge of sand, between two footprints under
the swing. That dream was so vivid that on awaking I could see the road,
buildings, fences, trees, swmg, and sand, with the footprints therein, the
same as in the dream, and as soon as it was light enough to see I started
for that swing, not attempting t« look for it on the way. On arriving at
the swing I walked deliberately into the sand until I reached the before-
mentioned ridge, between said footprints, and with the toe of my boot re
moved a little sand from the top of the ridge, and out rolled the ring. The
birds were singing overhead in the trees, the river was rushing on its way
to the sea, a train of cars on the York and Erie R.R. across the river passed
along. I banged my head several times with my fist, to make sure I was
not still in the hmd of dreams ; no, I was there, standing in the sand, and
there laid the ring. There was no hallucination about that, but a good,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 387
square, honest, useful dream. I picked up the ring, and went home, and
ate more for breakfast than I had in the last twenty-four hours, and I kept
up an awful thinking, and am thinking yet. I would state I was about nine
teen years of age at that time, enjoyed perfect health, and thought I knew
more than all creation ; but don't think so now. My sister was also living at
that time.
Several years after the above I had another dream, and the last one ; but
this has been so long that I will close for this time to see what you think of
it, and whether the second will be of interest to you, and will merely remark
that I have endeavoured to work this dream business up to a practical use in
the years gone by ; but it has been a total failure, so far—can't concentrate
the mind with that intenseness that seems to be necessary with me to bring
forth dreams.
"Anyone used to narratives," continues Professor Royce, "recognises
at once that this story, as I have suggested, has grown not a little with
years, and I am not sure of more than that it has a probable founda
tion in fact, and is no doubt sincerely told.
" The third case to be quoted in this connection has a better basis,
and is more critically told.
" The narrator is a Southern gentleman, Col. A. v. S., of Texas."
In the New York Herald of December 11th inst. I have noticed your
interview, in which you say that you request any person having some
unusual experience, such as an exceptionally vivid dream, &c, &c, should
address you. The following seems to me a very extraordinary dream, for
the truth of which I pledge you my word of honour.
About five years ago I lived with my four children, one boy and three
girls, on a farm in Massachusetts. This only son, at the age of about four
teen years, lost his life in an accident, about six months previous to this
narration. The youngest of my girls was the pet sister of his since her
birth. My wife had died some six years previous to this story ; being
motherless, made these children unusually affectionate toward each other.
One day I had occasion to buy for my girls each a very small lady's knife,
about two and a half inches long. A few days afterwards the girls received
company from our neighbours' girls, some five or six of them. My youngest
one, some eight or nine years old, was so delighted with this, her first knife,
that she carried it with her at all times. During the afternoon the children
strolled to the large barn, filled with hay, and at once set to climbing the
mow to play, and jumping on the hay. During the excitement of the play
my little girl lost her knife. This terrible loss nearly broke her heart, and
all hands set to work to find the lost treasure, but without success. This
finally broke up the party in gloominess. In spite of my greatest efforts to
pacify the child with all sorts of promises, she went to bed weeping. During
the night the child dreamed that her dead dear beloved brother came to her,
taking her by the hand, saying, '' Come, my darling, I will show you where
your little knife is," and, leading her to the barn, climbing the mow, showed
her the knife, marking the place. The dream was so life-like that she awoke,
joyfully telling her sister that her brother had been here, and showing her
where she would find her knife. Both girls hastily dressed, and running tq
388 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
the barn, the little girl, assisted by her sister, got on top of the hay, and
walked direct to the spot indicated by her brother, and found the knife on
top of the hay. The whole party said that they all looked there many times
the day before, and insisted that the knife was not there then.
This, I think, is a very remarkable dream.—Yours, &c.
" In answer to a request for further confirmation," continues Pro
fessor Royce, " our correspondent writes, under date of December 29th,
1887 " :—
M. 37.
Yours of December 22nd inst. to hand. According to your request I will
give the statement of my girls. The little dreamer says :—
" I have a very vivid recollection of my dream up to this day. I could
to-day walk every step that I walked in my dream with brother. I cannot
recollect at what time of the night I had my dream. I don't think I ever
was awake during the night, but, on waking in the morning, I had the feel
mg that I was sure I could go and get the knife. I told my sisters. They
at first laughed at my dream, but I insisted that brother had shown me the
knife, and I could not have peace in my mind until I went to the barn to get
it. One sister went with me. On reaching the hay, I told her to let me go
ahead, and walked direct to the spot without hesitating a moment, and
picked up my knife ! "
She never had any other similar experience, and no other similar u\1ie-
rience happened in my family. The sister who went along with her says :—
" As we got up and were dressing, sister told me she knew where her
knife was ; that brother took her out to the barn during the night and
showed it to her. I laughed and tried to persuade her that this was only a
dream, but she said that she was so sure of seeing the knife that she would
show it to me. She said that brother took her by the hand, and led
her to the place, talking to her all the way, and tried to quiet her. She
would not give peace until I went along. On getting on top of the hay she
walked direct to the spot, saying, 'Here brother picked the knife up out
of the hay,' and at once said, 'and oh, here it is,' picking up the knife.
We had been looking this place all over, again and again, the previous
evening."
For the following incident, resembling those just quoted from
Professor Royce, we have the independent account of the dreamer
himself, written two years later ; but as his narrative is somewhat
disjointed we prefer to give that kindly sent to us by Miss Ada
Hunt, of Pen Villa, Yeovil, which has the further advantage of having
been written at the time.
M. 38.
The following rather remarkable dream took place on the 20th November,
1886. On that day I gave to our gardener, G. Wilmot, his wages, 15s. , in a
half-sheet of paper, some letters to post, and two parcels and a note to leave
at various houses on his way home. This was at six o'clock in the evening.
. . . About an hour after the gardener returned to tell me he had lost his,
The Subliminal Connsciousness. 389
wages. I advised him to carefully retrace his steps and make every inquiry,
but this he did without success ; and as it was "fair" night and the town
full of people, he at last gave it up as hopeless and returned to his home
quite a mile distant. During the night he dreamt that he went to one of the
houses where he had left a note, and, crossing the road after leaving it, he
walked into a mud heap, and that there his foot struck the paper containing
the money ; the half-sovereign rolled away and the 5s. remained under his
foot. He told his wife the dream, and falling asleep again he dreamt tho
same dream again. Early in the morning he went to the place and found
his dream fulfilled to the letter, even to the rolling away of the gold, and
the silver remaining in its place.
He is a most intelligent, truthful man.
The gardener's own account differs from this in giving fewer details
as to the dream ; his account of it is : "I dreamt I had found it and
kicked the half-sovereign off the heap." Miss Hunt thinks that his
nervousness at writing himself made him forget to say that he dreamt
exactly where the money was found. He had so little belief in his
dream that he tossed up as to whether he should go to look for the
money again or not.
In the following case the dream itself first calls the attention of
the supraliminal self to the loss.
We owe this case to the kindness of Miss J. H. Symons, of 91,
Wigmore-street, W., to whom the case was sent by the percipient,
Mrs. Bell, of 7, Albert-road, Gloucester Gate, Regent's Park.
M. 39.
One morning in the early part of December (December 9th, 1890), I
awoke remembering my dream, and repeated it to Mr. Bell as being a piece
of good fortune that my diamond had not been lost ! I dreamed that I
had lost the large centre diamond in some sand. I was much distressed,
and hunted in the sand and found it, and wrapped it in paper, and asked
my daughter to take care of it for me. I very often leave my brooch on the
mantel shelf at night and put it away with my other jewellery in the morning.
While I was dressing my dream haunted me and I thought, "Well, I had
better look and see where my brooch is." I looked—there was no brooch.
I hunted in the cinders—I opened all my drawers—no, no brooch. My
daughter came into my room and I told her my trouble. She hunted for it
also, and again looked into the cinders—and found it !
Miss Bell also writes to us : "I did search the ashes in my mother's
bedroom after her dream about her brooch."
The next case raises a somewhat curious point as to the relation of
what I may call the subliminal gaze to defects of ordinary vision.
P. 31<i.
c
From Mr. Herbert J. Lewis, 19, Park-place, Cardiff.
In September, 1880, 1 lost the landing order of a large steamer containing
a cargo of iron ore, which had arrived in the port of Cardiff. She had to
390 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
commence discharging at six o'clock the next morning. I received the landing1
order at four o'clock in the afternoon, and when I arrived at the office at six
I found that I had lost it. During all the evening I was doing my utmost to
find the officials of the Custom House to get a permit, as the loss was of the
greatest importance, preventing the ship from discharging. I came home in
a great degree of trouble about the matter, as I feared that I should lose my
situation in consequence.
That night I dreamed that I saw the lost landing order lying in a crack in
the wall under a desk in the Long Room of the Custom House.
At five the next morning I went down to the Custom House and got the
keeper to get up and open it. I went to the spot of which I had dreamed,
and found the paper in the very place. The ship was not ready to discharge
at her proper time, and I went on board at seven and delivered the landing
order, saving her from all delay.
Herbert J. Lewis.
I can certify to the truth of the above statement.
Thomas Lewis.
(Herbert Lewis' father),
July Uth, 1884. H. Wallis.
From E. J. Newell, George and Abbotsford Hotel, Melrose.
August 1lth, 1884.
I made some inquiries about Mr. Herbert Lewis' dream before I left
Cardiff. He had been searching throughout the room in which the order was
found. His theory as to how the order got in the place in which it was found,
is that it was probably put there by someone (perhaps with malicious intent),
as he does not see how it could have fallen so.
The fact that Mr. H. Lewis is exceedingly short-sighted adds to the
probability of the thing which you suggest, that the dream was simply an
unconscious act of memory in sleep. On the other hand he does not believe
it was there when he searched.
E. J. Newtell.
Is it conceivable here that the percipient's myopia may have inter
fered less with his subliminal than with his supraliminal perception ; so
that the missing paper may thus have fallen within his visual field, but
escaped his waking recognition 1 It is, again, in a discussion of somnam
bulism that this point can be most fitly considered. It may suffice here
to quote—that my suggestion may not seem too fantastic—a few lines
from a personal observation of a somnambule by Dr. Dufay.i
" It is eight o'clock : several workwomen are busy around a table, on
which a lamp is placed. Mdlle. R. L. directs and shares in the work,
chatting cheerfully meantime. Suddenly a noise is heard : it is her
hoad which has fallen sharply on the edge of the table. This is the
beginning of the access. She picks herself up in a few seconds, pulls
off her spectacles with disgust, and continues the work which she had
i Revue Scicntifiquc, 3? serie, XXXII., p. 1G7.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 391
begun ;—having no further need of the concave glasses which a pro
nounced myopia render needful to her in ordinary life ;—and even
placing herself so that her work is less exposed to the light of the lamp."
."Miss X." has had an experience where the title of a book quite unknown
to her, which she had vainly endeavoured to read where it lay at some
distance from her, presented itself in the crystal. Nor can we in her
case suppose any such spasmodic alteration in ocular conditions as may
perhaps occur in trance.
The percipient in my next case has had at least one other experience,
—of a kind hard to explain without invoking something like clairvoyance.
(Proceedings, Vol. IV., p. 154, note.) The precise date of the dream
here given cannot now be recovered ; and although, as Mr. Gurney, to
whom the case was sent, has remarked, " Even an absent person would
be struck by encountering so dangerous an implement in so unusual a
position," we should not be justified in claiming proof of clairvoyance
from a narrative whose details must now be uncertain. The dream-
incident of the severed toe may be regarded as a mere symbolical
rendering of the fact that the knife was likely thus to injure anyone
who might walk down the stairs.
P. 333.
From Mrs. Wheeler, 106, High-street, Oxford. 1883.
I dreamed I went down the back stairs at Hcston into the kitchen,
.and as I stepped off the last step on to the floor, something severed my
big toe (without hurting me at all), and I saw it roll across the floor.
The next morning I went down those stairs before the kitchen shutters
were open, and with bare feet (I wanted some water), and just as I got
to the last step I remembered my dream and looked carefully (I think I
took the shutter bar down and partly opened the shutter, but I do not
feel quite certain), and then saw a knife lying on its back on the floor
with the edge up, just where I should have put down my foot had I
stepped off the bottom stair. I am not given to having vivid dreams
particularly.
Somewhat the same caution must be observed in estimating the
following case. It comes from a gentleman whom we believe to be a
careful informant ; but it is a recollection of a schoolboy dream ; and
we cannot now be sure that a glimpse of the desired map may not have
been unwittingly caught.
M. 314.
From Mr. Gervase Marson, Birk Crag, Great Clower-street, Higher
Broughton, Manchester.
When I was a boy, about 14 years of age, I was living with my parents
as aforesaid. There came to the town one day a sort of travelling bazaar.
The proprietors of this bazaar lived in a large room in the principal hotel,
for the display of their wares, which consisted of workboxes, toys, chimney
ornaments, &c. As soon as the exhibition opened I went, at the request of
392 Mr. F. W. H. Myers,
my sister, to inspect the same, being deputed by my sister to purchase for her a.
dissecting map of Europe. I looked over the stalls very carefully, but could,
see no dissecting map at all. I then addressed myself to the female who was
presiding over the shows, and told her what I wanted. She said she did not
think they had anything of the kind, but, to make sure, she would look.
She then looked carefully over all the stalls, and returned to tell me that
they had nothing of the kind I asked for in the place. I was very much
disappointed at this news, and returned home in quite a dejected state of
mind. The next night I dreamed that I went again to the exhibition, and.
after a short search, found, up in a corner and hidden under other larger
articles, the very thing I wanted. I dreamed the map in question was in a
foreign language, that it was enclosed in a box having a glass lid, and that
the glass of the lid was cracked in a peculiar star-like manner. This dream
influenced me so much that, as soon as I had finished my breakfast, I set oft"
again for the exhibition-room. On entering it I walked straight to the
corner of the room indicated in my dream, and there found the exact article
I had dreamed of. The map was in the French language, the box containing
it had a glass lid, and the glass was cracked just as I had seen it in my
dream. The mistress of the exhibition was as much astonished at the»
occurrence as myself. I bought the map and took it home to my sister.
G. Marson.
In the cases which I have thus far quoted the dream-self has
presented a significant scene,—has chosen, so to say, from its gallery of
photographs the special picture which the waking mind desired,—but
has not needed to draw any more complex inference from the facts-
presumably at its disposal. I have now to deal with a small group of
dreams which reason as well as remember ;—if indeed in some of them
there be not something more than mere reasoning on facts already in
some way acquired,—something which overpasses the scheme prescribed
for the present chapter.
In the first place we cannot doubt that definite data already known
may sometimes be treated in somnambulism or ordinary dream with
more than waking intelligence. Such are the cases of mathematical
problems solved in somnambulism, or of the skeletal arrangement
discovered by Agassiz in common sleep for scattered bones which had
baffled his waking skill. Mr. F. W. Hayes, an artist who does not
pay much attention to mathematics, contributes an interesting and
recent example of dream-capacity of this kind.
M. 40.
12, Westcroft-square., W., February 1st, 1892.
Early in January, 1892, I began to teach one of my children geometrical
drawing, using one of the shilling books on the subject. After arriving at
Problems IV. and V., " To draw a straight line perpendicidar to a given
straight line A B, from a given point C outside it: Case I., when the point is
opposite, or nearly opposite, the middle of the line A B ; and, Case II., when
the point is opposite, or nearly opposite, the extremity of A B," I one night
dreamt that I was looking over the diagrams of these problems in E. S_
The Subliminal Consciousness. 393
Burchett's standard work on Practical Geometry, Plate IV., and noticed
(without any sense of novelty) that the right hand top corner of the plate
was occupied with a diagram relating to a third case, viz., " When the point
C is beyond A B."
I recollect studying the clearness and neatness of the lines in the steel-
plate engraving (the required line lying vertically opposite to the right hand
end of the line A B, and about a quarter-inch away from it) as compared
with the coarser wood-cuts in the book I had used for teaching, and also
commented mentally on the unjustifiable omission of Case III. from the
latter merely to save space.
An evening or two afterwards, having Burchett's work in my hands
accidentally, my dream recurred to mo. As I could not recollect the solution
of Case III., while the diagram remained vividly in my mind's eye, I turned
to Plate IV., and was completely taken by surprise to find no Case III. there
at all. (It is not, I find, in any work known to me, or of which I can hear.)
Turning my attention to the required solution of the hypothetical Case
III., it almost instantly occurred to mo as follows : From any two points in
A B, as A and B, with radii A C and B C, describe arcs intersecting at C and
D ; join C D. (The contingency of C lying in a prolongation of A B is met
by an earlier problem.)
As this solution is the correct one (i.e., involving no anticipation of later
problems), it seems probable that its prompt occurrence to my mind was in
reality a recollection of the working lines in the dream diagram, which I did
not in my dream consciously notice at all.
It may be noted that while the various given solutions of Cases I. and II.
do not apply to Case III., the above solution of Case III. is also a general
method for the two others.
P.S.—The position on Plate IV. occupied by the dream diagram was not
quite the proper one, being two places too early (Figure 4 instead of 6).
F. W. Hayes.
Since this was in print, Mr. Hayes has discovered the missing
demonstration in another text-book. " It is thus not physically im
possible," he says, " for me to have seen the problem ; but, if so, the
book and the page must have been before me unconsciously ;—I retain
the certain conviction that I never saw or thought of the matter before
I dreamt it."
Another informant—Mr. F. J. Jones, of 257,Uxbridge-road,'W.—tells
us that as an engineering student he once dreamt the answer, " a number
with several places of decimals," to a problem which had baffled him over
night, apparently with no recollection of the process used in its solution.
Mrs. Verrall, already quoted, has also solved in dream a problem in the
Differential Calculus, which had baffled her during the day.
Cases of this sort seem closely akin-to the subliminal faculty which
the "arithmetical prodigies" whom we have already dwelt upon display
in waking hours. After studying their performances one can hardly be
surprised at any amount of subliminal manipulation of fixed data. The
2 D
394 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
case is a little different when the problem involves the mixed and
contingent facts of business experience. I will first quote a case where
the needed data had passed before the waking eyes, although it was
left for dream to interpret them fruitfully. The narrative was sent to
Dr. Elliotson, at first hand from a friend, by a physician well known in.
his day.
M. 648.
Vol. VIII., Zoist, p. 328.
Instance of clairvoyance during sleep. Communicated by Dr. Davey,
of the Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum.
" My Dear ,—In accordance with your request, I herewith transmit
you particulars, as they occurred, of the peculiar dream, if such it may be
called, which proved of so essential service to me.
" As I mentioned to you, I had been bothered since September with an
error in my cash account for that month, and despite many hours' examina
tion, it defied all my efforts, and I almost gave it up as a hopeless case. It
had been the subject of my waking thoughts for many nights, and had
occupied a large portion of my leisure hours. Matters remained thus
unsettled until the 11th December. On this night I had not, to my know
ledge, once thought of the subject, but I had not long been in bed, and
asleep, when my brain was as busy with the books as though I had been at
my desk. The cash-book, banker's pass-books, &c., &c, appeared before
me, and without any apparent trouble I almost immediately discovered the
cause of the mistake, which had arisen out of a complicated cross-entry. I
perfectly recollect having taken a slip of paper in my dream and made such a
memorandum as would enable me to correct the error at some leisure time ;
and, having done this, that the whole of the circumstances had passed from
my mind When I awoke in the morning I had not the slightest recollection
of my dream, nor did it once occur to me throughout the day, although I had
the very books before me on which I had apparently been engaged in my
sleep. When I returned home in the afternoon, as I did early for the
purpose of dressing, and proceeded to shave, I took up a piece of paper from
my dressing table to wipe my razor, and you may imagine my surprise at
finding thereon the very memorandum I fancied had been made during the
previous night. The effect on me was such that I returned to our office and
turned to the cash-book, when I found that I had really, when asleep,
detected the error which I could not detect in my waking hours, and had
actually jotted it down at the time.
" I have no recollection whatever as to where I obtained the writing
materials, or rather paper and pencil, with which I made the memorandum
referred to. It certainly must have been written in the dark, and in my
bedroom, as I found both paper and pencil there the following afternoon, and
could not for a long time understand anything about it. The pencil was not
one which I am in the habit of carrying, and my impression is that I must
have either found it accidentally in the room, or gone downstairs for it.
"Jamtary Uth, 1860. " C.J.E.
" P.S.—I may add that, on a former occasion, nearly a similar occurrence
took place ; with, however, this difference, that I awoke at the conclusion of
The Subliminal Consciousness. 395
-the dream, and was perfectly aware, when certainly awake, of having made
-the memorandum at that time. This, however, was not the case in the
occurrence I have above detailed. Should you be likely to print the above,
please let it appear with initials only, as although I would corroborate it to
anyone wishing for a personal satisfaction by inquiry, I have no desire to see
my name in type ; it might also be prejudicial to me."1
The two cases of Mr. Peterson's which I shall next quote have
some resemblance to Dr. Davey's, although the percipient, who is a
strong believer in spiritual intercourse, would certainly not interpret
them in the same way. The length of time, however, which elapsed
between the incidents and the record must be credited with its usual
effect of blurring the accuracy of details ; and it is conceivable that
some clue, now forgotten, may have supplied the dream-self with a basis
on which to work.
P. 335.
From Mr. A. T. T. Peterson, Arnwood Towers, Lymington.
February 11th, 1884.
I am deeply interested in coal mines in Bengal. Early in 1876 I was
out there investigating matters connected with a large deficiency in the cash
account. There was no means of getting at the truth. One evening I-was
sitting in an easy chair, a little before sunset, under the shade of a tree
opposite the bungalow where I was staying and I fell fast asleep, my brain
being full of perplexity as to which account was correct. In my sleep I
fancied I heard someone say, " Ask Baboo So and So." This name remained
on my memory when I awoke, and I put it down on paper. When my head
confidential native came to me an hour or two afterwards I asked who was
Baboo So and So, and I was told that he had been in the service of
several gentlemen named, during the previous 10 years, and was then the
head Baboo to a friend named. Some days after this I sent for the native,
and managed to get information which led me to discover written evidence
which satisfied my mind as to whose head the cap fitted.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Peterson adds :—
In answer to your remark as to the Baboo's name, I knew there was
such a person, but I had neither seen nor heard of him for 10 years, and I
do not think I had ever spoke to him twice in my life. He was in no way
connected with the object I had in view, although he gave collateral evidence
that led to the object. A. T. T. P.
P. 336.
February 11th, 1884.
I can give you another very curious incident in a dream. In the year
1861 or 1862, I was engaged in a very heavy equity suit between the repre
sentatives of a deceased Indigo planter and his surviving partner. The
surviving partner wanted to show that the deceased partner at time of
death was in debt to the partnership ; my contention was that he was creditor
to a considerable amount. The accounts of the firm were all in the Bengalee
language. My clients were too poor to get translations by the official inter-
i We have the gentleman's name and address.—Zoitl.
2 d 2
396 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
preters, which would have cost several thousand rupees ; the surviving
partner claimed a portion and a profitable item in the account as belonging
to him separately ; I claimed it for the partnership ; but no accounts were
forthcoming to show which way the books showed it to be. There was
simply the vivd voce evidence of the defendant and his partisans. The Chief
Justice repeatedly during the hearing remarked there must be some accounts
somewhere that would throw a light on the matter.
I always spent my Saturday evening and Sunday and until Monday
morning at my country-house, 14 miles from Calcutta. One Sunday night,
or rather early on Monday morning, whilst the hearing was still pending,
I had a dream. I fancied I was arguing in the case, and I was addressing
the court and was saying "That in answer to your lordship, as to whether
there was not anything in the accounts that would throw a light on the
question as to whether this account was joint or separate, I had found
accidentally an entry, although only for a small sum, 26 rupees, some annas,
and some pice, at page so and so of such a year, which cleared up the
mystery," begging to the court to send for the book and make the official
interpreter read it out, and I went on making strong remarks on the
character of the defendant ; when the opposite counsel got up and denounced
me as a liar, on which I took a large lead inkstand and threw it at his head,
cutting his head open, and laying him senseless on the floor of the court ;
and the Chief Justice ordered me instantly into the custody of the court bailiff,
—when I awoke. This was a dream, about 2.30 a.m., Monday. I instantly
jumped out of bed, got a light, and put down on paper the heads of my dream,.
I had my grooms roused up, my horses fed, and the relay sent on half way,
and left for Calcutta a little after 4 and got there a little before 6, and sent
for the head native Baboo of the firm of solicitors in the case, told him to get
the head native in the master's office (if he could) to come at once and let him,
in his presence, examine a particular book for a particular year, which he did,
and to my surprise found the entry, and the sum at the page indicated by my
dream. I need not say that I succeeded. Afterwards I told the story, when
asked what led me to the accidental discovery ; and when I said "a dream,"
I got well laughed at. A. T. T. P.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Peterson says :—
My head Baboo is dead, the counsel opposed to me is dead, the person to
whom the account book belonged is dead, and the chances are, as the concern
to which the books belonged is broken up, that the white ants have eaten the
books ; 22 years in Bengal destroys documents, unless specially guarded.
In these last cases the dream-intimation was of a kind to secure a
wished-for end. In the following cases it averts an unthought-of evil.
The Rev. A. J. Macdonald, a careful collector of evidence, obtained
for us the following narrative,—with the true names, which must be
here suppressed. " The following," he says, " I took down yesterday
from the dictation of the Assistant Secretary of a Fire Insurance
Company."
P.O. 600.
April 1st, 1884.
Last year I dreamt that a certain cotton mill, insured in our company,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 997
was burnt. The mill was one that I had never seen, nor was I acquainted
with any member of the firm ; and nothing to my recollection had been
before me connected with the insurance for some years. On reaching the
office the following morning I turned up the surveyor's report, which I
found to bo rather meagre, and one that had been made some years before.
I accordingly gave instructions to have the place re-inspected ; and when
this was done it was found that the mill was in an unsatisfactory
condition. Not being able to relieve ourselves during the current year
for any portion of the amount for which it was insured, we re-insured
with another office for part of the amount. A few months afterwards the
mill was partially destroyed, our company saving through the action 1
took in consequence of the dream near upon a thousand pounds.
[The true name of the secretary is signed, but is not for publication.]
The next case is from Colonel Reynolds, now of Cheltenham, who is
personally known to me, arid is an excellent witness.
About the year 1870 I was in charge of a length of roadway, together with
the bridges large and small that carried it. Sometimes there were floods
which endangered the bridges, and I was therefore always on the lookout to
prevent serious damage which would have impeded the traffic. At the same
time this had been my daily life for so long that no anxiety remained in my
mind about it. I regarded my duties as merely routine work. I was in a
fairly good state of health. One night I dreamt in a most vivid manner that
I saw an exact picture of a certain small bridge. All the surroundings were
.complete and left no doubt as to which bridge it was. A voice at the same
moment said to me : "Go and look at that bridge." This was said distinctly
three times. In the morning the dream still persisted in my mind and so
impressed me that I rode off at once about six miles to the bridge. Nothing
was to be seen out of the ordinary. The small stream was, however, coming
.down in flood. On walking into the water I found to my astonishment that
the foundations of the bridge had been entirely undermined and washed
away. It was a marvel that it was still standing. Of course the work neces
sary to preserve the bridge was done. There is no doubt that but for the
dream the bridge would have fallen, as there was no reason whatever to attract
my attention specially to this bridge. Though small, the bridge was an
important one, as its situation was peculiar. The picture that was dreamt
was so strong that it is even now fixed in my mind as plainly almost as it was
then. I have no doubt whatever that a special warning was given me by a
higher intelligence. I have never at any time had any other similar experience.
Cheltenham. H. C. Reynolds.
December 13th, 1891.
^Now in each of these cases we are dealing with the anxieties of a
conscientious man, deeply concerned in the safety of a particular struc
ture. In neither instance, however, was any cause for apprehension
obvious to the supraliminal self.
As a pendant to these two cases where a motionless and inanimate
danger was discerned, I will quote two cases where an active scene—of
a nature which the sleeper was especially concerned to prevent—seems
398 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
to have been witnessed in dream.i The introduction of living persons at
the other end of the chain suggests telepathy as a possible explanation ;
and indeed the cases which remain to be cited in this chapter are
avowedly introduced as a transition from mere hyperesthesia and
hypermnesia to the indications of supernormal powers with which we
shall hereafter have to deal.
L. 619. 1884.
Mr. Francis Alvey Darwin, of Creskeld Hall, Pool, Leeds, sends us the
following narrative, taken down by him from the lips of William Myers,
bailiffand ex-keeper on the Creskeld estate, and Elizabeth his wife, both of
whom sign the account.
Some years ago, I was asleep in bed here about 12 to 1 a.m., and dreamt
that I was out watching in a certain place where two gates face each other,
near my house ; that four poachers came up to me through those gates and
that I seized hold of two of them, one m each hand, and shook them and
struggled with them, at the same time shouting for assistance. My cries,
and struggles awoke my wife, who woke me up ; at once I told her what my
dream had been, and that I had had a hard fight. Just about that very
time, and at the very place I saw in my dream, four poachers did make their
appearance and stoned some of our men who were watching there.
When they came to see me in the morning, before I had had any conversa
tion with anyone, I told them at once I knew all about it, describing to
them in presence of my wife both the number of men and the place where
they had come across them.
My wife will corroborate all I say as to my cries and struggles, of which
I myself was quite unconscious till she woke me. We thought it a curious,
dream at the time.
(Signed) William Myers.
Elizabeth Myers.
3, Pump-court, Temple, E.C., March Uth, 1884.
Dear Sir,—In answer to your letter of the 10th inst., I have no doubt
that the place near the gates referred to was a place which he knew perfectly
well that poachers would be almost sure to pass in order to set a certain
wood. I do not think that the place was ever regularly watched, as there is
no cover to hide any men in, but the gates would certainly be frequently
marked in order that it might be ascertained if anyone had gone through
them or not.—-Yours truly, Francis Alvey Darwin.
Before dismissing this dream as a mere accidental coincidence, the
reader should refer to Dr. A. K. Young's case (Phantasms of the Living,
Vol. I., p. 381), where the dreamer strikes out violently at imaginary
foes,—in a scene where an assault is being actually committed upon a
tenant of his own.
i A transitional case, where an object which had been purposely concealed was
discovered by a sudden impression, was sent to me in 18N7 by the well-known,
surgeon, Dr. Whitehead, of 24, St. Ann's-gquare, Manchester. The impression was
received in waking hours, and not in dream, but seemed to depend upon no external
indication whatever.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 399
In the next case there is no suggestion of matter on which the
dream-self could have worked, except the fact that on the previous
evening the dreamer had heard a cart rapidly driven.
L. 841.
Turnours Hall, nr. Chigwell, Essex, July, 1888.
Statement by William Bass, farm bailiff to Mrs. Palmer :—
On the night of Good Friday, 1884, I went to bed at half past 10, and
very soon fell asleep. Just before the clock struck one I awoke in violent
agitation and profuse perspiration. I told my wife I dreamt that something
was wrong at the farm stables, and I was so convinced it was the fact that
I should get up at once and go there. She persuaded me to lie down again
(I was sitting up in bed and the night was cold). Still I could not rest. At
a quarter to two I dressed hastily, and taking a lamp and matches with me
went as fast as I could to the stables (distant about a third of a mile). I at
once perceived the place had been broken into and that a grey mare had been
stolen. From appearances where the mare had lain I judged she had been
taken away about two hours previously.
William Bass.
Mr. J. B. Surgey, enclosing this account, writes as follows :—
22, Holland-street, Kensington, July 9th, 1888.
Dear Mr. Myers,—Probably a few lines will be acceptable to you
beyond those to which William Bass has signed his name. Before being
employed as bailiff he was coachman at Turnours Hall, and has been 32
years in his place—a thoroughly trustworthy, straightforward, and the most
unimaginative, matter-of-fact fellow conceivable. Before his dream of Good
Friday, 1884, he was never known to speak of one. I had all particulars of
it almost immediately, but only jotted them down last week. I asked if he
could guess how long he had been dreaming when he awoke. No, not
possible to guess ; but he was in a horrible fright and his shirt was
"dripping " with perspiration, by which he supposed he might have been in
a state of excitement a good while.—Very truly yours,
J. B. Surgey.
Mr. Bass has since been interviewed by Mr. Barkworth, who•
writes :—
April 18th, 1890.
William Bass confirmed his previous evidence to mo this day.
About the time when the incident occurred (and for a long while after
wards) systematic horse-stealing had gone on in the neighbourhood, but Bass
has no recollection of being specially anxious about this. Pressed as to the
details of the dream, he recollected that he saw the horses in the dream, and
had a vivid impression of "something wrong," but what it was he did not
know. Although thus vague, the impression was so strong as to bo irresis
tible, so that although his wife begged him to go to sleep again, he lay awake
for about 1| hours until he could bear it no longer, when he got up and went
to the stable.
His wife confirmed all this, particularly as to his having twice said there
was something wrong in the stable and he must go and see to it. He had
400 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
always reproached her since with having prevented his going to the stable
when he first woke. Bass states he is not in the habit of dreaming.
Pressed as to any previous experience of the kind, he said that about 20
years ago he dreamt he saw his father dead. The father, who was quite
well at the time, died suddenly 10 days afterwards.
On the evening before the horse was stolen he had heard a cart driven
by very fast. The neighbourhood is so lonely that anything unusual is
remarked upon, and he said to his wife, "There is something wrong." He
had made the same remark on previous occasions when a vehicle was driven
rapidly by.
When he interviewed the police in Scotland Yard, they asked him how
he knew the horse had been stolen in the middle of the night, and when he
told his dream they ridiculed him, and evidently suspected complicity on his
part. Mr. Bass is a most respectable man, well known and esteemed in the
parish. He has lived in his present situation for many years.
I will conclude with two visions not easy to class, but apparently well
attested. Mr. Brighten is known to Mr. Podmore,—who concurs in what
appears to be the estimate generally formed of that gentleman, namely,
that he is a shrewd, unimaginative, practical man.
P. 117.
I owned a 35 ton schooner, and in August, 1876, in very calm weather,
I dropped anchor in the Thames at the North shore, opposite Gravesend,
as it was impossible to get to the other side, there being no wind.
The current being exceedingly swift at that part we let out plenty of
chain cable before going to bed. I had captain and crew of 3 men on
board, besides visitors. Towards morning I found myself lying awake in
my (owner's) cabin with the words ringing in my ears, " Wake, awake,
you'll be run down." I waited a few moments, then dropped off to sleep,
but was again awakened by the same words ringing in my ears. Upon
this I leisurely put on some clothes and went on deck and found the tide
rushing past very swiftly, and that wo were enveloped in a dense fog, and
all was calm and quiet in the early morning, and there was already some
daylight. I paced the deck once or twice, then went below, undressed,
got into my berth, and fell asleep, only to be again awakened by the same
words. I then somewhat more hastily dressed, went on deck, and climbed
some way up the rigging to get above the fog, and was soon in a bright,
clear atmosphere with the fog like a sea at my feet, when looking round
I saw a large vessel bearing down directly upon us. I fell, rather than
scrambled, out of the rigging, rushed to the forecastle, shouted to the
captain who rushed on deck, explained all in a word or two, he ran to
the tiller, unlashod it, put it hard a port, the swift current acting upon
the rudder caused the boat to slew across and upward in the current,
when on came the large vessel passing our side, and it would have cleared
us but her anchor which she was carrying (having lifted it in consequence
of having heaved anchor at low tide with very little cable) caught in our
chain when she swung round and came alongside, fortunately, however,
doing us very little damage. I at once jumped on her deck and woke up
some men who appeared on deck in various stages of intoxication, who
The Subliminal Consciousness. 401
stupidly wanted to remain as they were, but by dint of coaxing and
threatening in turn I induced them to take some turns at their capstan,
which had the effect of freeing their anchor from my chain, and she soon
left us and dropped her anchor a little lower down. I at once narrated
the above facts to the captain, and next day informed my visitors of the
voice to which we all owed our preservation. I cannot think that it was
really a human voice, as in consequence of the fog no one could have
seen the relative position of the vessels, and no other vessels were near
us within half a mile or more. My visitors at once desired me to return
to Greenhithe, and discontinued their trip.
Argyle House, Southend-on-Sea. Wm. E. Brighten.
December 6th, 1884.
I was one of the visitors on the occasion above referred to, and Mr.
Brighten related the occurrence to us on the following day.
Robert Parker.
31, Liverpool-street, London, Solicitor.
P. 118.
I was serving my articles to a solicitor in the city of Norwich at the time
of the following dream, and although it happened in March of the year 1861
it is as fresh and vivid in my memory as if it happened yesterday, and I have
frequently narrated it. In that year Mr. C. (also an articled clerk), having
purchased a long paddle steamer for river use (of a class since supplanted
by the launches of the present day), arranged with me that we should have a
week's holiday in the steamboat, so putting our provisions on board, we
(perhaps rashly) started without any engineer or attendant of any kind. Our
trip was a pleasant one from Norwich to Yarmouth, and we proceeded up the
North River, i.e., River Bure, as far as Acle, returning that night to the
North Quay, Great Yarmouth, where we were conveniently moored stem and
stern to a wherry (i.e., the local name for barges conveying goods) and we
turned in about 9.30 p.m. The cabin was comfortable and we were able to
enjoy our beds as at home, and I must describe the doors as two small
folding doors secured by shutting from the inside against the threshold, and
at the top by a hatch coming over and secured with bar top and bottom. I
must have slept some hours before my dream commenced. I thought my
eyes opened, and that the top of the cabin had become transparent, and I
could see two dark figures floating in the air about the funnel. They
appeared to be in earnest converse, pointing towards the mouth of the river,
and then at the ropes by which the boat was moored ; at last they turned to
each other, and after some gestures they seemed to have resolved upon a
plan of action, and each floated in the air, one to the stem and the other to
the stern, holding out a forefinger, and at the same moment each forefinger
touched a rope and instantly burned it like a red-hot iron. The boat
thus freed at once drifted with the rapid ebb, first past the quay under
the suspension bridge, then under the iron bridge, then across the broad
waters of Braydon towards Yarmouth bridge, then down between the long
lines of shipping there. All this time the two figures were floating in the
air above the boat, and both giving forth musical sounds. I thought I tried
to break the spell upon me and wake my companion, for I knew that if we
402 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
drifted out to sea we should certainly be swamped crossing the bar, but I lay-
there helpless. My eyes apparently saw every familiar object along the two
and a-half miles to the sea. At last we passed Southtown, then the village
of Gorleston, and we came to the sharp last turn of the river where the swift
waters were hurrying and tumbling over the bar to the broad sea beyond ;
and in those waters we were soon whirling, when the musical sounds, which
had never ceased, were exchanged by the two dark figures for hideous screantR
of triumph as the boat rapidly began to sink. At last the waters appeared
to reach my mouth, and I was drowning, choking. With a wild effort I
bounded from the couch, burst the doors outwards, shivering them to pieces,
and found myself (in my night-clothes) awake outside the ruined doors on a
calm, bright moonlight night, and instinctively turned to the head rope ; to
my horror, it had just parted. Turning for the boathook I saw beside me
my friend C, who had been aroused by the crash, and he shouted that he
saw the stern rope go at the same time. We both held on despairingly to
the boathook, bruising our unprotected shins, but our cries woke up the
wherryman, who came to our assistance, supplying fresh ropes, and we were
made snug for the rest of the night. My friend upbraided me for the wreck
of his doors, and I at once told him the whole of the above dream, by which
I was then very much excited. Next day I could calmly reflect that had we
remained asleep when the ropes parted the tragedy I dreamed of must
inevitably have taken place in all its literal detail.
William E. Brighter.
Argyle House, Southend, Essex.
1884.
Witness, Mr. J. W. Clabburn, Guild House, Thorpe, Norwich, states :—
I was with Mr. Brighten on the occasion referred to, and my knowledge of
the matter commenced with being awakened by the crash of the doors, upon
which I went out and saw Mr. Brighten with the boathook, in an excited
state, trying to hold the bows of the boat. I saw the stern rope part, the
bow rope had already gone. The whole scene passed in a moment. Mr.
Brighten at once related his dream to me as above.
1884. James W. Clabburn.
Each experience is unique, and I have never had any other dream or
voice warning of impending danger.
Neither am I a dreamer at all beyond the ordinary run of mankind.
I can have no possible objection to have my name appended to the
statements.
Argyle House, Southend. William E. Brighten.
December 6th, 1884.
Few of our narratives are more difficult than these to range under
any one of our definite classes. In some way Mr. Brighten obtained a
conrmissance superieure, as M. Iiichet terms it ;—in some way he be
came aware of impending dangers which no ordinary faculty could have
revealed. Are we to call it clairvoyance? or premonition? or com
munication from any embodied or unembodied mind ?
I should not be frank if I were to leave the impression that in any
of these cases I regard the explanation which seems to lie nearest to our
The Subliminal Consciousness. 403
existing knowledge as necessarily the true one. Such an explanation
should be the first suggested ; and should be pressed as far as it will
go. But we cannot philosophically sever one group of these new and
strange phenomena from other groups newer to Science and stranger
still. Much has already been published in these Proceedings which
may well remind us that the most familiar things are not therefore the
simplest ; that what for us is supernormal may for a wider purview be
the norm itself ; that what to us seem widest generalisations may
be but the special incidents of some remoter law. All our classifica
tions must needs be provisional in the absence of any true knowledge
as to the mode of operation, the mutual interrelations, of powers which
we are just learning to detect, just endeavouring to define. If it is, as
we know, impossible to describe the senses, say, of insects in terms of
our own senses;—if we are obliged in dealing even with faculties
beneath our own to make use of remote and perhaps misleading analogies
in order to get any nomenclature which shall be at all intelligible,—
how much more shall we be perplexed, when we deal with faculties
above our own, to classify them in any way except as the counterparts,
or extensions of the limited and specialised faculties which our terrene
life commands !
We know, for instance, that thoughts are conveyed from one mind
to another by certain familiar channels. When we learn that thoughts
are also conveyed by other and unknown channels, we set that group of
phenomena apart, and call it telepathy. We know that we discern the
facts around us, within certain limits, by sight and hearing. When
our perception seems to pass beyond those limits, we set apart that
group of phenomena, and call them clairvoyance or lucidity. We
know that we can to a certain extent infer from the present both the
near future and the recent past. If we learn that the future is some
times foreseen in a manner which no ordinary inferences will explain,
we set apart that fact as prevision ;—or, as I should prefer to say,
precognition. And similarly,—-although the conception has hardly as
yet been isolated, nor has received a name,—we must needs set apart
such knowledge of the past as no ordinary retrogressive inferences will
explain under some such title as retrocognition.
But while thus inevitably arranging these ultra-terrene powers with
reference to terrene conceptions, we must beware of assuming that such
powers are differentiated from each other by any such limit or variety of
function as exists for terrene nerves and brains. Our human eye collects,
into a single prospect the scene which the insectviews seatteringlythrough
a hundred facets ; and thus, too, in realms of higher law, the distinction
between all our adits of knowledge may be merged in some simple
intuition. Men have learnt long since that the Universal Mind does
not sniff up the smoke of sacrifices, nor gaze from Olympus on the
Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
fortunes of a single fray. Our newer speculations bring home to us
afresh the thought that to such a Mind all knowledge must arrive with
equal immediacy, and that Past and Future must be included in
one eternal Now. If we endeavour to represent the World-soul to our
selves, we must imagine one of its aspects (as I have elsewhere urged)
as a World-record ;—a transcript of each cosmic moment so complete
and living that the remotest past is there more real than is to our dim
perception the current and actual hour. Is man then cognisant of his
own history? Are the annals of his separate individuality imprinted
without him or within 1 Does he come to them hereafter like ./93neas
at the Carthaginian shrine,—discovering in an unknown land the image
of his own environment and the symbol of his own fate 1
Se quoque principibus permixtum adgnovit Achivis,
Eoasque acies, et nigri Memnonis arma.
Or do his long-past actions stand about him in his soul's presence-
chamber,—ever changeless but ever living,—like the golden watch
dogs in Alcinous' palace-hall which Hephestus fashioned with cunning
heart 1 There is significance, there is dignity, in even the pettiest
incidents which seem to link man's secret memory with this chronicle
of imperishable things. Poor and brief is all the life he knows ; but
yet some chapter of that cosmic record is writing itself unceasingly
within the bounds of his being ;—however perishing or however per
durable those walls of Mansoul may be.
Further Information, &c. 405
V.
FURTHER INFORMATION AS TO DR. BACKMAN'S
EXPERIMENTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE.
We have received various items of information with regard to the
cases of clairvoyance reported by Dr. Backman in Proceedings, Vol.
VII. (Part XIX.), p. 199, sqq., which we will here give under separate
headings. The most important of these items is a certified trans
lation of an account by the Director-General of Pilotage, Mr. Ankar-
krona, of the seance of September 21st, 1888, described at page 205.
This account, which is dated January 28th, 1889, is the first written
record which we possess of that seance ; and it will be seen that it on
the whole confirms, and considerably enlarges, Baron von Rosen's later
account. The English of this and other certified translations mentioned
below, although quite clear and intelligible, is defective in grammar
and diction. We have corrected the language ; but the originals of
the translations, and of Mr. Wicksell's paper mentioned below, are
preserved in our archives for reference if necessary.
I. Account by Mr. Ankarkrona of Alma RAdberg's Clairvoyance.
At the end of last September I made a tour along the coast of Westervik
on H.M. service, to inspect some newly built lighthouses there. At
Oskarshaum I went on board the pilot-steamer Kalmar. Besides the crew,
there were present on board the Captain of Pilotage Baron von Rosen, the
Baroness, and a young woman in his service, named Alma. On the coast of
Westervik we met with the Captain of Pilotage Mr. Smith, from Norrkoping.
On the evening of September 21st we were lying at anchor in the Kalmar in
a creek on the coast. Knowing Alma to be an uncommon "medium," I
asked her if Baron von Rosen might hypnotise her. " Yes, with pleasure,
as soon as I have washed up the china," she replied. I had already spoken
to Baron von Rosen. Soon after ten Alma went down into the cabin and
declared herself ready. Baron von Rosen sent her to sleep, and I then
asked him to ask her whether she would like to go to my house at Stockholm.,
give a description of it, and see what the inmates were doing. " I never
tried such an experiment before, but I will try it," the Baron replied. And
so the experiment proceeded in about the following manner [Baron von
Rosen asking the questions].
Baron von Rosen : Will Alma go to the house of the Commander
Ankarkrona at Stockholm and see how it is there ? Alma : Yes (her voice
was feeble and as it were hissed out). Q. : Is Alma there ? A. : Yes. Q. *
What do you see ? A. : A small room with very, very dark tapestries with
406 Further Information as to Dr. Bookman's
gold on the walls. Q. : How many windows ? A. : One. Q. : What else do
you see ? A. : Two paintings ;—one a landscape, the other a marine scene.
Several other pictures. In one corner a bookshelf ; in another a bouquet,
but not of flowers. On one wall a portrait of a lady, in oils. On the floor
a carpet, not covering the whole floor ; on the carpet a table ; on the table a
lamp ; by the table a chair, on which Mrs. Ankarkrona is sitting. Q. :
What is she doing ? A. : She is looking at a newspaper. Q. : What news
paper ? A. : Dagbladet. [The name commonly given to the Stockholmu
Dagblad.—A. Backman.] (I said, I do not take the Dagbladet.) Q. : You
must look better for the name. What newspaper is it ? A. : Svenska. (I
take the Srenska Dagbladet.) Q. : How is Mrs. A. dressed ? A. : In black,
with the bodice brocaded [faconne].
Q. : Can you go into the drawing-room ? A. : Yes. Q. : How many
windows are there 1 A. : Three. Q. : What more do you see? A. : Plenty
of furniture ; two chaises longuts, such as I never saw before. Two large
tables and several small ones. Great brown draperies for the doors, of the
same stuff as that which covers the furniture. The window curtains are
double, with broad lace. On the tables and everywhere are bibelots. Easels
with portraits of ladies and gentlemen. A number of plants ; several made
of paper. A magnificent chandelier. On the wall a large landscape. On
one wall a peculiar drapery of plush with a broad golden cornice. Every
where small pieces of plate, with something written on them ;—I cannot say
what. Two very beautiful vases. Q. : (At my suggestion von Rosen asked),
Is not the chandelier covered with stuff ? A. : No. (When I left Stockholm
the chandelier had been covered ; but the cover had been removed on the
same day.) Q. : What have they been doing [in the house] to-day? A. :
Sweeping ! (The furniture had been taken out and beaten.)
Q. : Where has Mrs. A. been to-day ? A. : Out of the house. Q. : Can
you go into the kitchen ? A. : Yes. Q. : How are you coming into it ? A. :
Now I am going through a dining-room ; now through a long narrow passage,
which is a service-room ; now I am in the kitchen. Q. : What do you see
there ? A. : Two maidservants ; one older, one younger. The elder one is
standing by the fireplace. The younger one is sitting on a chair with some
needlework. This one I have seen before. Q. : Can you go to the place
where Mrs. A. has been to-day ? You must go out by the lobby. A. : Yes.
Q. : How does the lobby look ? A. : Long, narrow, and dark ; on the floor
a thick carpet, covering about half the floor ; a lamp in a glass case is
hanging from the ceUing. Q. : Is Alma there now ? A. : Yes. Q. : Was
the way long ? A. : Not very. (The houses are in the same street.) Q. :
What do you see ? A. : A gentleman, a lady, and a baby about two months
old. I have seen the lady before. Q. : What is she like ? A. : She is dark,
with brown eyes. Q. : And the gentleman ? A.: He is fair. (Grey-haired.)
Q. : What is the gentleman ? A. : I cannot see. Q. : Look in the ward
robe ? A. : An officer. Q. : What is the lady doing ? A. : She is sitting
on a chair, with the child on her knees. Q. : Is she suckling it ? A. : No,
she only looks at it. On the floor is standing an old maidservant. (A nurse
arrived that same day, or a few days before.) Q. : What is the name of the
lady ? A. : I do not remember.
Q. : Will you go to Norrkoping and see what it is like at Captain Smith's ?
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 407
A. : No. Q. : Pray do so ; Captain Smith wishes it. A. : Yes. Q. : Is Alma
there 1 A. : Yes. Q. : What do you see ? A. : A lady and a little child. The
child is ill ; but it is nothing dangerous. There are two bedsteads for children
in this room. (The child was ill before Mr. Smith left Norrkoping.)
When Alma had slept calmly a little time she was awakened, and then
remembered everythingperfectly. About ten days afterwards she completed
her account to the Baroness von Rosen, who took notes of it. When she
awoke she rubbed her arm, and when we asked her why she did so, she
answered that she had been sleeping so deeply that the arm had grown numb.
Asked where she had seen the younger maidservant, she replied : " I saw
her this summer from the Kalmar thorough a telescope—she was standing
on the pilot-steamer Ring." (She had in fact been housemaid on the Bing.)
While we were talking and wondering over what had just passed, we men
tioned the name Rosenblad. Alma exclaimed with pleasure, " Rosenblad is
the name of the lady." She had seen her in Kalmar during the summer.
When shown my photograph, standing in a glass frame in the cabin, she
said that " the photographs standing in the Commander's drawing-room were
like that."
The remarks between round brackets are mine.
No one of the persons on board the steamer had ever visited my house at
Stockholm. Alma's description corresponds perfectly with the reality.
The only points in which she was mistaken were—(1) That she saw " two
beautiful vases " in the drawing-room. These may have been two branched
candelabra of china which stood on the stove. (2) She saw a gilded cornice
above the drapery in the drawing-room. It is, however, only painted in
oil ; but in a certain light it has the look of being gilt.
Stockholm, January 28th, 1889.
H. J. AjiKarKrONa.
That the above is rightly translated from the original, which we also saw,
we hereby certify.
Ph. von Tell, Captain. A. E. Lindqvist, Lieutenant.
Kalmar, February 25th, 1892.
II. In Proceedings, Vol. VII., p. 201, an account is given of the
first occasion on which clairvoyance was shown by Anna Samuelsson.
She then saw, apparently in Mrs. Backman's house, a young girl whom
Dr. Backman recognised from the description as Miss H. W. After
seeing this young lady, the clairvoyant saw Mrs. Backman go to a
shop and buy something. Mrs. B. had in fact spoken by telephone
with Miss H. W. and then gone to a shop. So Dr. B. informed us ;
but he could not at the time find any contemporary letter. He has
now found a letter of Mrs. Backman's (the second which she wrote on
the subject), dated Dorby, June 19th, 1888, from which he quotes
the following extracts: "I went out at 11.30 to buy something at
Lofberg's. ... A few moments before I had talked with H. W. by
telephone."
408 Further Information as to Dr. Backman's
III. Another occurrence about which Dr. Backman has obtained
further eiidence is the finding of the body of a drowned man through
Anna Samuelsson (see Proceedings, Vol. VII., pp. 203-4). This was
reported by Dr. Backman from his recollection of what Anna had told
him and of an account in a newspaper. He has tried to find this
newspaper, but without success. He has, however, obtained the
following written testimony from Anna herself, and, through her, from
two men who were concerned in the finding of the body.
Hultsfred, February 17th, 1892.
. . it has taken some time, because I wished that the persons who
assisted in recovering the body should certify what they themselves knew to
be true, and if you wish for further information about this case, the young
man's father will tell you more about it from the beginning, and I can only
say what is true about what I myself saw and witnessed, and you, Mr. Doctor,
know that I continually see in a direction opposite to the reality, and so it
happened in this case that he lay to the left and I saw him to the right . . .
(Signed) Anna Samuelsson.
That in a trial made by Anna Samuelsson, being in hypnotic trance, to
point out the place where the body of the young man Samuelsson, drowned
in 1890, lay, a place was pointed out by Anna, who added that tho
dead body would be in the mid-stream, where it really was found. The
number of feet we cannot give, as there was no question of that. Anna
was at her house when the sleep was induced ; she saw him to her right, but
he was found in the contrary direction, to the left. This we the undersigned
hereby certify on our honour and conscience.
Hultsfred, February 16th, 1892.
(Signed) C. O. Swensson. F. L. Pettersson.
That the above two papers are translated exactly according to the
originals, which were shown to me, I hereby certify.
Kalmar, March 10th, 1892.
Ex-officio.
OSKar MkLLIn,
Not. Public.
Dr. Backman adds the following note :—
It may be remarked that the lake is very large and that there is in.
reality only one place where there is a mid-stream, viz., where the stream
flows into the lake, where the body was found.
IV. Mr. Knut Wicksell, of Stockholm, has forwarded to us a long
criticism on Dr. Backman's experiments, which practically consists of
three lines of argument, as follows : (1) Mr. Wicksell points out obvious
defects in the record of some of these experiments,—defects of the kind
at once admitted by Dr. Backman in the first paragraph of his
original paper (Proceedings, Vol. VII., p. 199). (2) He suggests some
ways in which the clairvoyants might have obtained knowledge of the
facts which their communications contained by ordinary means.
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 409
To the particular suggestions made by Mr. Wicksell, Dr. Backman
has sent us what seem to us satisfactory replies ;—as, for instance, ti>
the suggestion that Alma Rildberg had learnt the facts as to Mr.
Ankarkrona's and Captain Smith's households from members of their
steamers' crew (p. 206) Dr. Backman answers that Mr. Ankarkrona's
steamer was not at Krakelund at all, and that Captain Smith's steamer
was anchored so far from Captain von Rosen's (on which the experi
ments were made) that communication was only possible by shouting.
A more important suggestion relates to an incident recorded on p. 205
of Proceedings, Vol. VII. Mr. Wicksell remarks that if Alma " knew
that Captain O. had sent a trunk containing clothes to his
mother-in-law ['s house] and enclosed the key in a letter, she might
perhaps, without the faculty either of clairvoyance or even thought-
reading, have been able to guess that that letter ' spoke about clothes.'
. . . To judge from the expressions in the Proceedings, it seems
as if Captain O. was at the time staying with Alma's master, and
if this be so, it would indeed be wonderful if she had not known any
thing about the trunk." To this Dr. Backman replies that Captain O.
was living at the other end of the town, and that he no doubt selected
the question as one respecting which neither Dr. Backman nor Alma
could have any information. It is desirable, of course, that all
such points should be carefully thought of, and mentioned in the
contemporary accounts of experiments.
V. (3) In the third place, Mr. Wicksell describes letters to himself
from Captain Braun and Lieutenant Hage'us which at first sight
impugn the accuracy of two of Dr. Backman's reports. In the second
instance at least, however, the discrepancy almost certainly resolves
itself into a not unnatural confusion of memory. Captain Braun's
objection is to the experiment of predicting lottery tickets (p. 203).
He himself drew the numbers on this occasion, but it is not easy to
discover exactly what he recollects, as he has sent no reply to a letter
from Dr. Backman, and the words which Mr. Wicksell quotes from
him are somewhat vague : " I don't remember the exact numbers
drawn, but I remember that Dr. Backman afterwards tried to advocate
his cause, saying, for instance, that the sum of the figures in the drawn
No. 18 was the same as the predicted No. 9, or that the predicted 4 or
8 was contained in the drawn No. 48 or 84 ! "
In reply, Dr. Backman transcribes a letter from the officer who won
on the No. 18 (who does not wish his name published), and two letters
from other officers of the group, but not present at the drawing. It
appears that no one now retains any independent recollection of what
the first of the drawn numbers was. There is therefore nothing to
overthrow, though nothing to confirm, Dr. Backman's recollection of
2 k
410 Further Information cm to Br. Bookman's
the report (p. 203) made to him at the time that it was 4. All the
three officers who write to Dr. Backman agree that the second number
was 18. As to Captain Braun's impression that it was only after the
drawing of the numbers that Dr. Backman said that the clairvoyant's
prediction of "9" might mean 9 or 18, we have one man's memory
against another's. Dr. Backman's recollection is that he said it before
the drawing ; and as he tells us that he took pains to look into the
matter at the time, lest (not having been present at the drawing) he
might have been made the victim of a practical joke, his memory is
perhaps the more likely to be right of the two. The question is, of
course, a fundamental one for this incident, and we have here an illus
tration of the great importance, now fully admitted by Dr. Backman,
of recording observations and experiments at the time.
VI. The second letter quoted by Mr. Wicksell is from Lieutenant
Hageus, one of the signatories to a report (p. 202) of a sitting where,
amongst other matter, Anna Samuelsson is described as truly declaring
that the number of coins in Quarter-master Ericsson's pocket is five.
" Lieutenant Hageus," says Mr. Wicksell, " in a letter to me for another
purpose, chanced to speak also about this experiment, and his version
{wonderful to say) was different from the account given in Dr. Back-
man's paper, and signed by Lieutenant H. himself, among others. ' I
especially remember,' he writes, ' when Anna was asked how many coins
the Quarter-master Ericsson had in his purse ; to which she answered
(as far as I remember) "seven." On searching it was found that the purse
contained only six ; but as she stuck to her assertion, one more search
was made ; when, besides the six coins, a trousers button was also
found, which completed the number.'
" This, no doubt," continues Mr. Wicksell, " is the very experiment
described in Dr. Backman's paper, although the number of coins is
there differently given ; and as it is most improbable that the detail
stated by Lieutenant Hag6us is the result of a lack of memory, no other
explanation is left but that he and three other persons (no doubt in good
faith) signed with their names an account which, as they all knew, was
inexact in at least one important point."
It is not easy to see how Lieutenant Hageus and other gentlemen
could have signed, as Mr. Wicksell suggests, " in good faith " an account
which they knew to be inexact. There is, however, as Dr. Backman's
reply shows, no reason whatever to charge these gentlemen with either
voluntary or involuntary inaccuracy ; as the experiment now described
by Lieutenant Hageus was made, as will be seen, on a different
occasion, and no account of it has yet been published. " The notes in
question," says Dr. Backman, " were written down by me immediately
after the experiment, were copied by a lawyer, and were read by me to
Experiments in Clairvoyance. 411
•the four persons and signed by them on the following day. Mr.
Ericsson, who is principally attacked, writes to me that he in even/
point confirms the notes and what he signed. . . . The account
now given by Lieutenant Hageus is also perfectly true, if we write
.'Ahlgren' in place of 'Ericsson.' Amongst the 'other experiments'
mentioned in my account, the following took place. Mr. Ahlgren
asked that Anna should say how many coins he had in the pocket
of his waistcoat ; and of what different kinds they were. She replied,
let us say, ' Seven,' (I think it was eight), stating that there was,
let us say, one piece of two crowns, one of one crown, three of 2"i
ore, and two of 1 ore. Captain Ahlgren now took up what he
had in his pocket. The coins were as Anna had said ; but one
piece of one ore was represented by a black button of the same
size. Mr. Ahlgren has told me that he does not remember the
incident with the button, but that he perfectly well remembers
that Anna was quite right about the coins in Mr. Ericsson's purse."
Lieutenant Hageus' written statement at the time, confirmed by all the
other witnesses, may certainly be preferred to his present recollection,
in which the events of two separate experiments seem to have become,
not unnaturally, confused. As to the fact of frequent failure mentioned
by Captain Braun, Dr. Backman replies that he has never denied this :
his contention having been throughout,—not that all his experiments
succeeded,—but that, as he says (Vol. VII., p. 219), "such trials,
though we can never command success in them, prove that we have to
do here with a human faculty not yet recognised and which is worthy
of being studied and established by scientific experiments."
We are glad that Dr. Backman's reconls have thus been sub
jected to a searching local criticism. That criticism seems to us to have
brought out evidence which has strengthened rather than weakened our
confidence in his accuracy. At the same time we thoroughly agree
with Dr. Backman's own view, as above expressed, that the faculty
whose sporadic and fugitive existence in certain human beings these
experiments and others resembling them have often already indicated
needs for its complete scientific establishment experiments both more
numerous and more rigid than it has yet been possible for even the
most conscientious and diligent investigator to make.
General Meetings. 413
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 54th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, October 28th, 1892, at 4 p.m. . the
President in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers gave an address on the late Mr. W. Stainton
Moses, which is printed in the Supplement.
A paper by Dr. A. Blair Thaw, printed below, on " Some Experi
ments in Thought-transference " was read by Mr. Podmore.
Mr. Myers read a paper on " Sensory Automatism and Induced
Hallucinations," forming part of Chapter V. of his discussion on " The
Subliminal Consciousness," printed below.
The 55th General Meeting was held at the same place, on Friday,
December 2nd, at 8.30 p.m., the President in the chair.
A paper was read on "The .Lourdes Miracles and other Cures by
Mental Impression."
Mb. Myers read a further part of Chapter V. on the " Subliminal
Consciousness."
414 M. J. Belbœuf.
I.
DE L'APPRÉCIATION DU TEMPS PAR LES
SOMNAMBULES.
Par M. J. Delbœuf, Professeur (i V Université de Liège.
Dans la séance du 10 Aôut du Congrès International de
Psychologie Physiologique, qui s'est tenu à Paris en 1889, j'ai soulevé
la question de cette faculté mystérieuse que nous avons d'apprécier
d'une manière plus ou moins approximative l'écoulement du temps,
surtout sous l'influence hypnotique. Je disais ceci : (') " Si je suggère
à une somnambule qui ne sait pas du tout compter, de faire un acte
quelconque dans 3,500 minutes, par example, elle le fait au moment
indiqué, et cela sans avoir pu évaluer la quantité du temps." J'ajoutais
que je n'avais pas encore publié mes résultats, parceque je n'en avais pas
encore trouvé l'explication.
Je ne suis pas plus avancé aujourd'hui qu'alors. Il est vrai que
je n'ai pas repris l'étude du problème. Mais je pense que le nouveau
Congrès me fournit une occasion de publier les chiffres que j'ai autrefois
recueillis. Ils pourront amorcer d'autres travailleurs.
'Voici ce que j'écrivais déjà à ce propos dans la Revue de l'Hypnotisme
de Décembre, 1886, p. 166 :—
" Le numéro de Novembre de la Revue de l'Hypnotisme contient la
relation d'une suggestion se réalisant à un an de distance.
" Ce récit m'inspire deux remarques. La première concerne
l'appréciation du temps par le sujet ;
" Quant au premier point, il a déjà été autre part(3) l'objet de mes
réflexions. C'était à propos d'un résultat du même ordre obtenu par
M. Beaunis ; une suggestion donnée par lui s'était réalisée après 172
jours d'attente.
" De cette expérience, comme de celle de M. Liégeois, on ne peut
(l) Congres Internationale de Psychologie Physiologique, Compte Hcndu, p. 156.—
Je copie le compte-rendu. Je saisis cette occasion de rectifier ce qu'on m'a fait dire
a cette même page a propos des tritons crëtés. C'est dans la localité où je réside
pendant les vacances, a Ramet, pros de L ege, et non en France, que je n'ai
jama's vu que deux tritons crètés. Dans un petit abreuvoir d'un metre de
diamètre et de 80 centimetres de profondeur, alimenté par une source naturelle
et situé au pied de colhnes accidentées et boisées, je trouvai un jour une
femelle, que j'emportai. Quatre jours après, j'y voyais le male. Il était de
toute impossibilité que le mâle eût pu échapper a ma vue les jours précédents.
Je citais ceci comme un exemple des facultés étonnantes d'orientation ou
d'odorat ou d'autres sens qui guident les sexes l'un vers l'autre.
(-) Bcvuc Philosophique, Novembre, 1885, p. 514.
De l'Appréciation du Temps par les Somnambules. 415
tirer d'autre conclusion que celle-ci, à savoir que le somnambule est en
état de retenir fidèlement une date donnée. Cependant, l'une et l'autre
portent le même en-tête: ' Suggestion à 172, à 365 jours d'intervalle'
et tendent à faire croire, sinon à établir, que le somnambule aurait
la faculté de compter les jours à son insu.
" Telle n'est par leur portée. Il s'agit dans toutes deux d'une
suggestion d date fixe.
" Dans celle de M. Beaunis, le 172e jour se trouvait être précisément
le jour de la nouvelle année, et le sujet en avait été averti. M. Beaunis
lui avait ainsi parlé : 'Le 1er Janvier, 1885, à 10 heures du matin,
vous me verrez, ifec.' Après cela, que la suggestion soit faite le 14
Juillet, ou bien le 14 ou le 30 Décembre, à 172 jours, ou bien à 17 ou
à 2 jours d'intervalle, le sujet n'a toujours qu'à retenir une date et une
date remarquable. Pas n'est besoin pour cela qu'il compte les jours
qui s'écoulent.
"Même procédé chez M. Liégeois. Le 12 Octobre, 1885, il a dit à
P.N .... : ' Dans un an, à pareil jour, voici ce que vous aurez envie
de faire.' Ici la date est un anniversaire. Et cette date, le somnam
bule l'a gravée dans sa mémoire, comme l'avait gravée aussi M. Liégeois,
qui, lui, n'avait pas été hypnotisé.
" D'une autre nature serait l'expérience, si l'on disait au sujet :
' Dans autant de jours, par exemple, dans 237 jours, vous ferez telle
chose.' Il faudrait voir si le sujet réaliserait la suggestion après
l'intervalle fixé. Dans ce cas, et dans ce cas seulement, on pourrait
l'intituler : ' Suggestion à 237 jours d'intervalle.'
" Mais il est à craindre qu'il n'en serait pas ainsi. J'ai fait de
nombreuses expériences dans cette voie—j'en donnerai prochainement le
détail—et à côté de réussites, il y a bon nombre de non-réussites : par
exemple, des ordres qui devaient être exécutés après cinq jours, après
neuf jours, ne l'ont pas été. Néanmoins, je me hâte de l'annoncer, les
réussites, dans les conditions où je les ai obtenues, sont, pour moi,
parmi les choses les plus extraordinaires que présente le somnambulisme
provoqué. Et, si même je n'ai pas encore publié mes expériences, c'est
par une espèce de pudeur scientifique ; c'est pareeque je n'aime pas à
offrir au lecteur l'étonnant sous l'habit du merveilleux.
"J'ajouterai encore, par rapport aux insuccès, qu'il pourrait se faire
qu'ils fussent plus apparents que réels, comme on le verra tantôt.
. . . " Par deux fois, il est arrivé à un de mes sujets d'accomplir
la suggestion sans quitter son fauteuil et sans faire un mouvement. Il
se rendormait visiblement et rêvait qu'il faisait ce qui lui était
commandé. Quand, après une attente plus ou moins prolongée,
croyant que la suggestion n'avait pas porté, je le réveillais et lui
reprochais son peu de condescendance, il me soutenait m'avoir obéi, me
2 f 2
41G il/. Delbœuf.
racontait son rêve, et était grandement étonné en apprenant qu'il
n'avait pas bougé.
"C'est pourquoi je disais plus haut, à propos des suggestions à
échéance non réalisées, qu'il est possible que la réalisation en ait eu
lieu de cette façon, c'est à dire, en imagination."
Cet article a été écrit quelques jours avant les expériences que je
vais relater et que je me proposait de poursuivre. On remarquera que
j'y exprime la crainte de voir qu'un intervalle de temps énoncé
numériquement ne donne pas prise à la mémoire de l'hypnotisé, h
moins qu'il ne songeât immédiatement à faire le calcul nécessaire pour
déterminer la date de l'échéance, à se dire, par exemple, que le 37e jour
après le 14 Juillet est le 20 Aôut. Sous l'empire des doutes formulés
par M. Paul Janet, je ne pouvais me figurer que la suggestion pût faire
d'un cerveau humain une espèce de réveil automatique (voir l'article
précité de la Revue Philosophique). Mais comme il ne faut jamais se
laisser guider par des idées préconçues, je résolus de soumettre mes
scrupules à une vérification expérimentale. C'est pourquoi j'imaginais
d'exprimer les intervalles de temps en minutes et non plus en jours.
Ce changement permettait de faire beaucoup d'épreuves en un temps
relativement court.
Les deux sujets qui ont servi à mes expériences étaient deux jeunes
filles, deux sœurs, aujourd'hui mariées et mères de famille, alors âgées de
20 et de 23 ans. Ce sont celles que, dans mes premières études publiées
par la Bévue Philosophique en 1886 et 1887, j'ai désignées par les
initiales M. et J. Toutes deux, campagnardes saines et fortes, sont
bonnes somnambules. J. est celle qui a consenti à l'expérience dos
brûlures symétriques, et qui a été accouchée sans douleur à l'état
apparent de veille, elle primipare, en Janvier de l'année dernière (voir
Jiivue de VHypnotisme, Avril, 1891).
Mes expériences ont pris juste une semaine, du Samedi, 2 Octobre,
au Samedi, 9 Octobre, 1886, avec un jour d'interruption. Elles ont été
presque toutes calquées sur le type suiiant : par exemple, à 6 h. 45 du
matin, je donnais au sujet un ordre à exécuter dans 1,150 minutes, par
conséquent à 1 h. 55 du matin.
Or, M. et J. sont incapables de réduire en heures un nombre un
peu considérable de minutes, tel que 400. Elles doii ent procéder par
additions successives : une heure, 60 minutes ; une heure et une heure
font 60 + 60 = 120;, 120 +. une autre heure font 180 ; et ainsi de
suite. Avant d'être arrivées au chiffre de 360, elles ont couru mainte
chance de se tromper, et, dans le fuit, souvent elles se trompent, surtout
J., cjui est plus vive et plus impatiente. C'est assez dire qu'elles sont
absolument incapables de réduire en heures un nombre de minutes
tel que 1,150.
Ce n'est pas tout. En supposant qu'au moment du réveil après la
Be l'Appréciation dit Temps par les Somnambules. 417
suggestion donné, elles eussent songé à noter l'heure—ce qu'elles ne
faisaient ni ne pouvaient faire—elles auraient eu à déterminer par un
calcul de tête quelle est l'heure qui correspond à celle dé 6h. 45
augmentée de 1,150 minutes. Or, pareil calcul n'est pas chose facile.
C'est ce dont on pourra s'assurer en essayant de résoudre soi-même
mentalement le problème. Je l'ai posé à un brillant élève en médecine,
qui a donné successivement les trois réponses suivantes : une heure de
l'après-midi ; 4 heures du matin ; 2 heures du matin. Il lui a fallu
trois minutes de réflexion pour trouver cette dernière réponse, et encore
faut-il noter qu'il était averti chaque fois de son erreur. On n'avance
donc pas une chose téméraire en affirmant que ce problème exige des
efforts de raisonnement dépassant certainement les facultés de deux filles
de la campagne se plaçant comme servantes.
Enfin, ni l'une ni l'autre, mais J. principalement, ne savent pas très
bien lire l'heure au cadran.
Il est clair dès lors que si le sujet accomplit l'ordre au moment
désigné, on peut en conclure qu'il a en lui comme un mécanisme de
réveil remonté pour un temps limité. Cette comparaison paraîtra plus
juste encore si l'on veut bien considérer que les ordres donnés étaient
ou grotesques ou sans importance, et que parfois l'échéance tombait au
milieu de la nuit.
Je n'ai plus qu'un mot à ajouter. En fait d'expériences de l'espèce,
ce sont surtout les réussites qui doivent entrer en ligne de compte.
Les échecs sont peu significatifs. Il est évident qui si, sur dix sugges
tions, les sujets en réalisent la moitié, on ne peut invoquer le hasard.
C'est le cas de leur appliquer le mot de l'Abbé Galiani et de prétendre
qu'ils sont pipés.
Il ne me reste plus qu' à rappeler que M. et J. étaient dressées à
se souvenir, sur ma demande, de ce qu'elles avaient fait et pensé en
état d'hypnose. L'interrogatoire était conduit avec la plus grande
prudence. J'usais toujours de termes vagues : " N'avez-vous pas eu
une drôle d'envie aujourd'hui 1 Quelle envie ? Vers quelle heure ?
Qu'avez-vous fait 1
Sans plus long préambule, voici la série complète de mes expériences,
Je les expose toutes suivant le même plan. Je donne d'abord l'heure
où la suggestion a été faite ; puis l'intervalle commandé ; l'objet de la
suggestion ; le résultat.
Samedi, 2 Octobre.
1. J.—6 heures du matin—350 minutes, donc pour llh. 50. Elle
doit me demander s'il ne faut pas harnacher l'âne. N.B.—En cette
année, 1886, ma femme, malade, faisait des promenades à âne.
Naturellement, c'était elle, ou plus ordinairement moi qui donnais
l'ordre en question. La demande que J. doit me faire est donc
insolite.
418 AL J. Delbœuf.
Résultat.—Elle en a eu l'idée vers l'heure juste, mais n'y a pas
donné suite.
2. M.—8 heures du matin—350 minutes, donc à lh. 50. Elle doit
demander à ma femme si elle ira se promener avant son café (qu'elle
prend vers 4 heures). N.B.—Cette demande est aussi insolite.
Résultat.—L'envie lui a pris vers l'heure dite ; mais elle était
justement sortie pour une commission dans le village. Elle est rentrée
à 2 h. 30 et a réalisé la suggestion.
Résumé.—Deux presque réussites.
Lundi, 4 Octobre.
3. J.—9 h. 15 du matin—900 minutes, donc pour mardi à minuit ^.
Elle doit aller tirer par l'oreille mon fils Ch. dans son lit. Mon fils
avait alors 14 ans.
Résultat.—Elle s'est levée après beaucoup d'hésitation, et est allée
tirer Ch. à 10 h. 40. Erreur : 95 minutes trop tôt, environ ,\y.
4. M.—9 h. 25 du matin—700 minutes, donc pour le même jour à
9 h. 05 du soir. Elle doit aller embrasser ma fille H.
Résultat.—A 8 h. 40, donc avec une erreur en moins de 25 m., t,V,
elle a cherché après H. ; elle ne l'a pas trouvée. À 8 h. 55, son envie
avait passé. Ayant vu H. à ce moment, elle ne l'a pas embrassée ; elle
ne se souvenait plus de ce qu'elle lui voulait.
5. M.—10 h. 04 du soir—900 minutes, donc pour le mardi à 1 h. 04
de l'après-midi. Elle doit venir embrasser ma fille C.
Résultat.—Elle est venue à 1 h. 04 précise. Elle était justement
en train de déjeûner avec sa sceur et la cuisinière. Celle-ci l'a vue
changer de figure quand elle s'est levée de table.
Résumé.—Une réussite avec une erreur pas notable ; une autre
avec une faible erreur, et sans accomplissement de l'ordre ; une réussite
complète.
Mardi, 5 Octobre.
6. J.—6 h. 30 du matin-—1,600 minutes, c'est à dire pour le mercredi
à 9 h. 10 du matin. Elle doit tirer L. par le nez. L. est la cuisinière.
Résultat.—Le mercredi à 8 h. 10 du matin, elle a réalisé la
suggestion. Comme L. riait : "Prends garde," lui a-t-elle dit, "ou je
vais encore te tirer par le nez." Erreur, 60 minutes trop tôt, -f^.
7. M.—6 h. 45 du matin—1,150 minutes, donc pour le mercredi à
1 h. 55 du matin. Elle doit entrer dans la mansarde où couche L.
et tirer celle-ci par l'oreille (L. a été prévenue).
Résultat.—Vers 2 heures (donc à l'heure exacte), l'envie lui a pris.
Elle a résisté ; à 4 h. 15, elle a cédé, et est allée trouver L. dans son
lit. Comme L. se mit à rire, elle lui a dit d'un ton sérieux. "Si tu ris.
je vais te tirer par l'oreille."
Remarque.—Il est vraiment curieux que le sujet résiste pendant
deux heures à une suggestion aussi saugrenue, et ne songe pas que ce
De VAppréciation du Temps par les Somnambules. 419
pourrait être une de ces idées comme je lui en donne depuis quelques
jours.
Résumé.—Deux réussites presque parfaites. L'avance de J. est
insignifiante, et le retard de M. se justifie par la lutte qu'elle
a soutenue contre elle-même.
Mercredi, 6 Octobre.
8. J.— 9 h. 55 du matin—1,300 minutes, donc pour le jeudi à 7 h.
35 du matin. Venir demander à ma femme, s'il ne faut pas la coiffer.
Prière de bien remarquer l'heure bizarrement matinale.
Résultat.—Elle est venue à 6h. 26 (!), c'est à dire avec 69
minutes d'avance, erreur fo.
9. M.— 6h. 55 du matin—1,500 minutes, donc pour le jeudi à
7 h. 55 du matin. Venir demander à ma femme si elle n'a besoin de
rien.
Résultat.—Elle est arrivée à l'heure juste, 7 h. 55.
Résumé.—Deux réussites, dont l'une parfaite, l'autre presque
parfaite.
Comme on le voit, M.— est plus exacte que J. Mais d'une
manière générale, on peut dire que l'une et l'autre ont le sentiment
de l'écoulement du temps. Il faut donc admettre — sans quoi
on tomberait absolument dans le merveilleux — que leur cerveau
se livre à un travail inconscient, et calcule plus ou moins
exactement l'époque de l'échéance. Ce qui corrobore cette conclusion,
c'est le fait que c'est justement celle des deux qui calcule le
mieux, à savoir M., qui accomplit les ordres le plus près du
moment voulu.
Je crus alors pouvoir pousser plus loin mes expériences ; celles-ci
n'ont pas aussi bien réussi ; mais cependant l'insuccès n'est pas de
nature à infirmer les résultats précédents.
Notons encore que, dans la première expérience, singulièrement
compliquée, les échéances sont déterminées d'une manière plus simple.
Vendredi, 8 Octobre.
10. M.—6 h. 30 du matin. Elle aura sommeil à 10 heures du soir,
gagnera son lit et s'y endormira profondément. Pendant son sommeil
quelqu'un viendra lui donner un ordre.
J.—9 h. 15 du matin. Ail heures du soir elle montera dans la
chambre de M., lui dire ce qui suit : " Demain Samedi, à 5 h. \ du
matin, tu entreras dans la chambre des étrangers ; tu y verras la dame
de la maison assise dans un fauteuil et ayant froid aux pieds ; tu lui
apporteras une chaufferette, et tu t'éveilleras."
À 10 h., J. est montée à sa chambre. À 10 h. 50, je l'ai entendue
qui se levait et allait trouver sa sœur. Je ne sais rien de ce qui a suivi
que par le récit de J. : " Quand elle a montée à sa chambre, il y avait
déjà plus de quatre heures qu'elle se sentait mal à l'aise. Elle s'est
420 M. J. Delbœuf.
dressée plusieurs fois dans son lit avant de s'endormir, essayant de se
tenir tranquille et se disant que je lui avais sans doute fait une sugges
tion. Elle a cependant fini par aller trouver sa sœur au lit, mais elle no
sait plus ce qu'elle est allée faire ni dire."
Quant à M., elle n'était pas descendue dans la chambre des
étrangers, et elle ne se souvenait pas que sa sœur lui eut parlé.
Samedi, 9 Octobre.
11. J.—9 h. 30 du matin—3,300 minutes, donc pour le lundi à
4 h. 30 après midi. Elle doit venir me demander—demande bizarre—
s'il ne faut pas porter la petite échelle double sous le grand poirier.
12.M.— 10 h. du matin—3,300 minutes, donc pour le lundi à 5 h.
après-midi. Elle doit venir me demander s'il faut laisser la grande
échelle sous le grand poirier—demande aussi singulière ; elle ne pourrait
remuer cette grande échelle.
Aucune des deux n'est venue. Mais le soir, j'ai appris qu'à G h.,
c'est à dire avec un retard de 90 minutes, soit J. a eu l'idée de me
faire cette demande ; elle se souvient nettement de l'objet de la demande.
Quant à M., interrogée/elle se souvient qu'à 3 h. 30—elle m'explique
pourquoi elle fixe cette heure—elle a eu envie de me demander quelque
chose ; mais elle ne sait plus quoi ; donc une avance de 90 minutes, soit
aussi 3'r.
Réflexion finale.
J'ai dû abandonner mes expériences, à cause de la reprise des cours.
Je comptais les poursuivre; mais les circonstances ne s'y sont pas
prêtées. M. se mariait, la santé de ma femme allait s'aggravant ;
d'autres études me prirent mon temps. Du reste, le peu de faits que
j'avais recueillis, me paraissaient suffire à mettre en évidence cette
singulière faculté de notre esprit d'apprécier le temps à notre insu.
Bien des personnes—j'en suis—savent s'éveiller à une heure donnée de
la nuit. Mais d'ordinaire, elles tout tenues à demi-éveillées par une
préoccupation plus ou moins marquée, et souvent le réveil est anticipé.
Dans le cas de mes deux.campagnardes, il n'y a pas de ces préoccupations;
les ordres à accomplir n'ont aucun caractère d'urgence ; enfin, ils
doivent être précédés d'un calcul mental que, dans leur état normal,
elles ne peuvent réussir à mener à bonne fin. Et cependant, il résulte
de mes essais, qu'elles font ce calcul. Comment 1 Je n'en sais rien.
Je laisse à ceux qui voudront après moi poursuivre ce problème, le soin
de le résoudre.
Mars, 1892.
P.S.—Je me suis aperçu en relisant ces notes que je n'ai pas songé
à m'enquérir si, dans l'état d'hypnose, ces sujets pouvaient faire des
calculs au-dessus de leurs moyens à l'état de veille. Je n'ai
malheureusement plus M. sous la main. Mais J. est encore à ma
De VAppréciation du Temps par les Somnambules. 421
disposition. Je l'ai donc à deux reprises différentes, le jeudi 3 Mars,
mise en l'état d'hypnose.
1. Combien font 350 m. ? RéponsesTassez promptes : 6 h.—non !—
5i heures.
Combien font 1,200 ? Réponses assez promptes : 15 heures—non !—
121 heures (!)
2. Je procède méthodiquement, je marque l'intervalle qui s'écoule
entre la question et les réponses.
Combien font 150 m. ?—après 7 secondes, 21 heures.
Combien font 240 m. ?—après 5 secondes, 2 heures.
" Réfléchissez bien ! ".—après 2 minutes—4 heures.
Combien font 300 m. 1—après 5 secondes, 4| heures.
Après 30 seconds, 51 heures.
Après 1 minute, 5| heures.
Je demande au sujet de m'expliquer son calcul. Je copie textuelle
ment la réponse : " Ça fait 5£ h. + 3 fois 10, ce qui fait 5Jh. tout
juste." Je m'avise de vouloir l'aider : " 60 + 60 ï—120 m. Il 120 + 60 ?
(courte hésitation) : 180 m. || 180m. + 60? (longue hésitation) : 240 m. ||
240 m. + 60?—le sujet, manifestement fatigué : 290 m." J'insiste; le
sujet pâlit et suffoque. Je m'arrête. Ce dernier interrogatoire a pris
près de 10 minutes.
J'avais préparé des colonnes contenant les nombres 540, et ceux
qui figuraient dans mes expériences. Les résultats précédents m'ont
paru assez significatifs pour que je me crois dispensé de continuer.
The above paper tvas read at the International Congress of Experi
mental Psychology in London, August, 1892.
422 Dr. A. Blair Thaw.
II.
SOME EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
By Dr. A. Blair Thaw.
It is manifest that in experiments intended to prove thought-
transference all possibility of perception by the senses must be
excluded. With this object the following rules were adopted in the
experiments about to be described and any infringement of them is
noted in its proper place.
1st, with regard to the Muscular sense : There must be no contact
between the person who is to take the active part and the person who
is to try to receive the impressions.
2nd, as to the sense of Sight : The percipient must have his eyes
carefully covered with a dark bandage, and the object must be outside
his field of vision, supposing no bandage were used.
3rd, as to Hearing : The agent or agents must maintain perfect
silence, speaking only when it is necessary for the purpose of the
experiments, as for instance, to tell the percipient what kind of objects
he is to look for, as colours, numbers, ic. All cards, numbers and
colours should be chosen at random.
It is not an easy matter to name the conditions which will tend to
give the best results. As has been said elsewhere, it is important to
remember that " Questions of mood, of goodwill, of familiarity, may
hold the same place in psychical investigation as questions of tempera
ture in a physical laboratory."
It is probably true that the passive condition in the percipient, so
necessary for success, is most easily attained through hypnotism. In
some of my experiments, however, the best results were obtained with
the percipient in a normal state. A question arises here : whether the
difference of condition is not a merely apparent one, considering the
possibility of self-hypnotisation on the part of the so-called normal
percipient. On the other hand, it should be observed that, in these
experiments, in every instance when the percipient was hypnotised at
the beginning of a series, the suggestible condition may in itself have
lasted but a short time, while the suggested state, of a passive,
receptive nature, lasted more or less to the end of the trials, the
percipient always being in a natural state at the end.
The fleeting nature of all phenomena of this kind is one of the
chief difficulties encountered in investigating them. If a percipient
can be put in the right condition by a word or two, or by a moment's
Some Experiments in Thought-Transference. 423
pressure on the forehead, as in the cases here mentioned, the distinction
between such a state and that of a percipient who reaches what is
apparently the same condition spontaneously, is possibly a distinction
without a difference. It is, perhaps, just this fleeting, elusive quality
which lends to the experimental study of these phenomena much of the
interest which attaches to the more remote and rarer spontaneous
manifestations, while, in these experiments, the safeguards against error
of judgment can be easily applied. In any case, to try to secure the
best conditions for an experiment is an axiom of science, as " organised
common sense," and this has been our chief object of endeavour.
The experiments in themselves are simple and interesting, and the
material is always at hand. No great amount of time is required ; an
hour every few days will suffice ; and it must not be forgotten that the
study of thought-transference occupies a primary position as a branch
of psychical research, in more than one sense.
It was for such reasons that the writer promised to read a report of
some experiments. It may add something to the interest of the report
to state here that the greater part of the trials themselves were made
during the month that passed between the making of the promise and
the writing of the present paper.
Before proceeding with the details, it may be well to quote and
apply to our experiments the following sentence of Mr. Gurney's : " We
may venture to say that a candid critic, present during the whole
course of the experiments, would have carried away a far more vivid
impression of their genuineness than any printed record can convey."
The effect on those present at such experiments is often due quite as
much to half successes and indirect evidence as to more directly
successful results.
The first series of experiments was made with the percipient in a
light trance. The objects looked at by the agent being of a miscel
laneous character, and taken from different parts of the house without
the percipient's knowledge. The house happened to be rented, furnished,
of friends, who left their bric-a-brac, ifec.
The report, made verbatim, at the time of the experiments, is as
follows :—•
First Series.
New York, April 3rd, 1892.
Mrs. Thaw Percipient. Dr. Thaw Agent. Witness, Mrs. Dow.
After each experiment the agent touched the percipient's forehead to
help her into the passive state, but never selected an object for the next
experiment until after the contact was discontinued.
Agent holds first two objects against white paper.
1st Object. Bronze Statuette, Classic Bust, Helmet and Beard.—
Percipient in one or two minutes says : Is it a picture? At this point,
42-i Dr. A. Blair Thaw.
referring to percipient's putting it in form of a question, witness says impul
sively, "That's not quite right." But this remark would hardly suggest
what follows. After long pause, percipient continues : A reproduction of
the human face. Dark. A statuette. Bronze. Beard. Hat on it. Slouch
hat, cai?. Has a ruff. (Back of bust suggests a ruff.) (Experiment took 10
minutes.)
2nd Object. A Pair of Scissors.—Agent writes above report on paper
in his hand. Percipient says: Something white. Agent says "No."
Writing on it. Agent puts away paper here, as it was evidently in perci
pient's mind. Percipient continues : If not white, shing. A white shine, not
a gold shine. Moundish. Engraved. A pair of scissors. (Percipient says
something long and sharp was in her mind from the beginning.) (Experiment
lasted 4 minutes.)
3rd Object. A Cabinet Photo of " X " brought by agent from upstairs
before sitting.—Percipient says: Something square. A picture. A picture
of a brass bed. Agent says " Wrong." Photograph of "AT." (Experiment
took two or three minutes.)
4th Object. An old soiled $10.00 Bill.—Percipient says : Square. (Per
cipient on being asked what she means by "square" says " Square-cornered.")
It is a book with corners. Dark in colour. Made of two colours. It is a
kindergarten mat made bg a child. Agent says "Wrong." It is another
picture. Has letters on it. A picture not of something h uman, but of swnething
in nature. Has a big 0 on it, or like an 0 or two O's together. It is a picture
in colour. The colour darker titan the thing. The colour like ink. (Experiment
took ten to fifteen minutes.)
5th Object. A Red-covered Book with Black Cross and Letters on cover,
"Saint Paul," by F. W. H. Myers. Percipient says : I think this is some
thing dark in colour. Isit anything square ? Square and dark. It is a paper-
covered book. Agent says " No." Percipient continues : Tin's time it is a book.
It has writing on the outside. lieddish brownish colour. Capital E on outside.
Is it the book on Evolution f "Wrong." Is there anything stuck on it?
"No." (Experiment took from five to ten minutes.)
Percipient was told the name of the book and insisted that the name
of Mr. Myers was in her mind all the time, but connected with the paper-
covered Proceedings of the S.P.R., and when told the book was not paper-
covered gave up the name of Mr. Myers.
0th Object. Agent's Watch (with Chain). —Percipient says : Bright.
White Bright. No, gold bright. Either a walch or chain. (Experiment
took 2 minutes.)
7th Object. Spectacle Case.—A shining black with letters and arabesques
and an eagle in gold on it. Percipient says : It's square ; has corners. There's
writing on it. If not writing, has a picture on it. I think it's a book or a
picture on a paper. I see it reddish. Long rather than square. Like a pencil
or paper cutter, or knife. It shines. White shine or silver shine. Agent
asked colour of letters. Gold, with one or two arabesques. (Correct.)
Sth Object. Long Round Bkass Wire Helical Spuing. Larger at one end.
—Percipient says : This is dark coloured. No shine. Black or brown. It's
hard. It shines, white shine, metal. A silver thing. It's long. It's roundish.
Some Experiments in Thouyht-Transference. 425
Is it a spoon ? Is it a knife ? I wonder if it has any glass on it. I think it's
part silver and part cut ylass. Maybe it's a steel shine. Is it a hat-pin? (The
outline of the object very much resembles that of an ordinary straight hat
pin.)
April ±th, 1892.
Mrs. Thaw Percipient. Dr. Thaw Agent. Mrs. Dow Witness.
Oth Object. Small China Cup, flowers painted on it.—Percipient says :
Mound. Bright. Steel. Top of mucilage. Ratherflat. Motley, Has another
part. Perhaps something of glass. Partly glass or crockerg. Ink-bottle.
Colour ? Greenish.
10th Object. Tortoise-shell Napkin Ring, with name in script on side.
—Percipient says : Not bright. Not light colour. Square. Writing on it.
(This object was familiar to agent not so much as a ring as for the writing on
it, and from that point of view it, of course, appears square.) A book.
Dark tcith white rim. (Rim reflecting light.) Bottom has corners. Something
breakable.
11th Object. A Ssiall Brass Key.—Percipient says : Small. Smaller
than the other object. Shines. Shines white. (True in some lights. Alight-
coloured brass.) Is it sharp ? Boundness of some kind. Agent asks, " What
kind?" Roundness fiat. Roundness also of a long thing. It has a handle.
Is it sili'er ? Is it a toilet article ? Colour 1 It has a gold shiuc.
12th Object. A Small Ear Syringe. Round Bulb.—Percipient : Dark.
Brownish. Flat. Corners. Long. A book.
13th Object. The last object of this series is a book of Mother Goose's
Melodies, with a picture of Mother Goose playing piano on the cover.—Per
cipient : No shine. Not dark. Not white. At this point, agent being a
little tired, stopped actual visualisation of the book as an object, leaned back
in his chair, and for the first time noticing Mother Goose was playing with
her claws on the piano, being amused by this, fell to thinking of the general
intellectual conception of the book. Percipient suddenly says, It has some
thing to do trith the mind. Agent in surprise exclaims, " With the mind ? "
in a tone which discouraged percipient at first. Percipient continues : It
has to do with library rather than bedroom. It has to do with Art. Agent
asks, "What Art?" (This is an error of an impulsive character such as
sometimes is made.) It is one of my crayons. It has something to do with
writing, composition. Music too. It has been in the library. Hither with
something done in Art or with somebody doing something in an Art. Agent
looking at Mother Goose at this time. Either work done or person doing it.
It has something to do with a book. It has something to do with a book with a
picture in it. It has something to do with a book of pictures or of music. It
is a book. It is the Mother Goose book.
The Mother Goose book was in percipient's mind from the beginning, but
she wanted to see if it would persist. It continued to appear at times. The
image was so clear that percipient was afraid of its being a conscious thought
or guess and so put it off.
Thus of thirteen objects six were correctly named, the fifth object
being called a book correctly, though the particular book was not
426 Dr. A, Blair Thaw.
named. (Five of the eight objects on the first clay were named cor
rectly.) In five of the remaining seven objects, the answers indicated
that the percipient was on the right track, and only two of the experi
ments can be regarded as complete failures.
In the next series of experiments (April 17th) of the same kind,
with similar objects, with the same agent and percipient, and under
the same conditions, except that the percipient was not hypnotised, the
results were not so good. Of six objects not one was named. At the
same time the results were better than mere chance would give. Of
twelve statements as to colour (including light, dark, 4c.) eight were
right, two partly right, and two wrong. The nearest approach to cor
rect description of outline was with a pair of spectacles (described as
" sort of round, round in one place and then long,") and a cigar
(described as " little, roundish, longer than round ").
The percipient, who acted as such in all the experiments so far re
ported, while she is the best one I have found, generally speaking, is
especially sensitive to some sudden change of idea or sensation, and
more likely to succeed when such a change is made, while in anything
like an extended series of routine experiments, such as those with play
ing cards, she seems perhaps to have less success than some of the
othere. In one series of fifteen playing cards she had no success at all,
and in a series of colour experiments succeeded but little better. These
formed part of a series of experiments of a routine character, with
percipients taken at random, in a normal state, and guessing rapidly,
with no effort to secure good conditions. It is a short series in itself
and shows a number of successes slightly greater than pure chance
would give, as seems to be the case in all experiments of this indiscrimi
nate sort. In detail they do not make very interesting reading, and
will serve chiefly to bring down the general percentage of our successes.
For, of course, every trial must be counted in a report.
After the various experiments had been brought together and tab
ulated, we had, fortunately, on April 26th and 28th, two remarkably
good series of experiments. They are interesting for one reason,
because in one case the percipient was in a normal condition, and in the
other case hypnotised. They are particularly interesting to the writer,
because he was himself one of the percipients, happening to feel confi
dent at the time of attaining the passive condition which is so essential
to success.
In the first series, the percipient was a friend, a good hypnotic
subject, whom I put in a light trance before the experiments began.
The following is a report of this sitting :—.
April 26th, 1892.
Mr. M. H. Wyatt Percipient. Dr. Thaw Agent. Mrs. Thaw present.
Percipient knows nothing of experiments. Hypnotised. Blindfolded,
Some Experiments in Thought-Transference. 427
and ears covered with handkerchief, sitting in high chair with back to agent,
and about 8 feet distant.
1st Object. The Number 8.—Percipient sees clouds. Little blue flames.
Told to see a number he sees a curl and a tail. No form. Percipient says
Seven.
* 2nd Object. A Red Disc is chosen.—Percipient is not told anything.
Percipient continues to see clouds and blue flames. On being asked to see
colour, percipient says : Pink or red. It is red. It is a disc.
Percipient possibly saw coloured discs in a pile in the house a week before,
but, on being asked, said he did not remember them. Ho thought it was a
disc pasted on square of white paper. The discs used are of the kind sold
for kindergartens.
3rd Object. Green Disc—Purple. Blue.
+ 4th Object. Yellow.—Light green. Yellowish.
+ 5th Object. Lkiht Green.— Yellowish. Green.
+ 6th Object. Dark Blue.—Dark. Black. Dark bine.
7th Object. Bright Red.—White. Green. Blue.
Percipient becomes confused. Percipient very slow and continues to see
blue flames and smoke.
Without telling percipient, objects changed to Playing Cards.
+ 8th Object. 6 Hearts. —Percipient says : White, a card. Is it a one spot ?
Bed. Orange. Diamonds. The nine of Diamonds. It has spots up and
down the sides ; either a nine or a six. It has nothing in the centre. No, it is
not Diamonds It's Hearts.
+ 9th Object. 6 Hearts chosen.—Percipient says : 6 Hearts or Diamonds.
+ 10th Object. 10 Hearts chosen.—Percipient : Hearts again. 8 Diamonds.
10 Diamonds.
filth Object. Kino Diamonds chosen.- Percipient : Bed. 4 Diamonds.
New York, April 28th, 1892.
Mr. M. H. Wyatt Percipient. Dr. Thaw and Mrs. Thaw Agents.
Conditions as on April 26th.
+ 1st Object. 10 Diamonds.—Percipient, not told anything, sees confused
shapes and colours. After a long and unusual effort on part of both agent and
percipient, we moved into another room on account of the noise in the street.
During this move agent held card on top of pack, face downwards.
Admitting the agent's assertion as to card being face downwards while
moving, the following is a curious result.
2nd Object. A Blue Disc.—Percipient (after a long pause): It is a
big Diamond, eight or ten. I think it is the ten. The previous object was
ten of Diamonds.
Further Cards chosen. 1st Guess. 2nd Guess.
t 5 Spades 9 Hearts 7 Spades.
9 Diamonds 4 Hearts 3 Clubs.
t Knave Spades ... Spades, a picture card.
Then follow three miscellaneous objects of which percipient gets the third
virtually right. It was a Cigarette Case.* Leather with embossed picture
428 Dr. A. Blair Than:
and figures on it.—Percipient : It's a picture. Looks like filigree on the cover.
It's of leather. (Percipient may possibly have seen object once, about two
years before.)
April 28th.
Dr. Thaw Percipient. Mrs. Thaw Agent. Mr. M. H. Wyatt present.
* 1st Object. Silk Pincushion, in form of Orange-Red Apple, quite
round.—Percipient : A Disc. When asked what colour, «aid, Bed or Orange.
When asked what object, named Pincushion.
f 2nd Object. A Short Lead Pencil, nearly covered by the nickel cover.
Never seen by percipient. Percipient : Something white or light. A Card.
I thought of Mr. Wyatl's silver pencil.
3rd Object. A Dark Violet in Mr. Wyatt's button-hole but not known
to be in the house by percipient.—Percipient: Something dark. Not very big.
Longish. Narrow. Soft. It can't be a cigarette because it is dark brown.
A dirty colour. Asked about smell said : Nut strong, but what you might call
pungent; a clean smell.
Percipient had not noticed smell before, though sitting by Mr. Wyatt
some time, but when afterwards told of the violet knew that this was the od(un
noticed in experiment.
Asked to spell name, percipient said : Phrygian, Phrigid, orfirst letter V
if not Ph .
+ 4th Object. Watch, dull silver with filigree. Percipient : Yellow or
dirty ivory. Not very big. Lite carving on it. Watch is opened by agent,
and percipient is asked what was done. Percipent says : You opened it. I1
is shaped like a butterfly. Percipient held finger and thumb of each hand
making figure much like that of opened watch. Percipient asked to spell it
said : I get r-i-n-g witlt a W atfirst.
Playino Cards.
+ Kino Spades.—Spades. Spot in middle and spots outside. 7 Spades. O
Spades.
*4 Cubs.—4 Clnbs.
+ 5 Spades.—5 Diamonds.
Numbers out or Nine Digits.
*4.—Percipient said : It stands up straight. 4.
+ 6. —Percipient said : Those two are too much alike, only a little gap in one
of them. It is either 5 or 6.
*3.—3.
+ 1.—Percipient said : Cover up that upper part if it is the 1. It is either 7
or 1.
2.—9, S.
From acting so much as agent in previous trials, I knew the shapes of
these numbers printed on cardboard, and as agent found the 5 and 6 too
much alike. After looking hard at one of them I can hardly tell the differ
ence, and always cover the upper projection of the 1 because it is so much
like a 7.
Some Experiments in Thought-Transference. 429
The numbers were printed on separate pieces of cardboard and there were
about a hundred in the box, being made for some game.
COLOUrS, CHOSEN aT raNDOM.
Chosen. 1st Guess. 2nd. Guess.
♦Bright Red ... BrightRed.
♦Light Green ... Light Green.
+Yellow ... ... Dark Blue Yelloic.
♦Bright Yellow... Bright Yellow.
+DarK Red ... Blue ... Dark Red.
tDark Blub ... Orange Dark Blue.
Orange ... ... Green ... ... Heliotrope.
These successes with cards, numbers and colours are the most remark
able of all. The percipient himself told the agents to change character of
object after each actual failure, thus getting new sensations.
Percipient was told to go into next room and get something.
*lst Object. Silver Inkstand chosen.—Percipient, without moving, says :
I think of something but it is too bright and easg. It is the silver inkstand.
Percipient told to get something in next room.
2nd Object. A Glass Candlestick.—Percipient went to right corner of
the room and to the cabinet with the object on it, but could not distinguish
which object.
Percipient had handkerchief off to be able to walk, but was not followed
by agents, and did not see them. Agents found percipient standing with
hands over candlestick undecided.
In the first series of experiments of April 26th and 28th, Mr.
Wyatt, who was hypnotised, named or described, out of a total of
nineteen objects, two completely right (marked alxive by an asterisk ♦),
ten partly right (marked above by a cross t), and seven wrong ; while
the writer, who was in what would be called a normal state, named
or described, out of a total of twenty-one objects, eight completely
right (marked above by an asterisk ♦), nine partly right (marked above
by a cross t) and only four wrong.
Both series were conducted under the same conditions as regards
checks on error ; i.e., the percipient had both eyes and ears tied up,
and the agents kept silent except when it was necessary to say when
cards or numbers or colours were to be used.
It is from such trials as these last, and those first described with
Mrs. Thaw as percipient, that we may learn something as to the
conditions for success.
We have not noticed that the condition or the general visualising
power of the agent has much direct effect on results, except, of course,
that fatigue after too prolonged a sitting will interfere with active exer
tions. An hour is about the limit ; the only important function of the
agent being that he should use his mind and his senses to the utmost
capacity and at the same time try to impress the percipient with the
430 Dr. A. Blair Thaw.
idea. The latter seems to be as necessary as the former effort on the
part of the agent.
The observations of the English experimenters on thought-trans
ference, in regard to the conditions in the percipient which conduce to
success, apply very precisely to my experiments. A serious failure
often interferes with further success, and after a success others are
most likely to follow. In the ordinary routine experiments, even when
the general results are poor, the successes are often successive. For
instance, while Mrs. Thaw guessed only two right out of twenty-five
cards, allowing two guesses, these two were the third and fourth cards of
the series, and she guessed the second card of the series on a third guess
This expectancy is something which must be added to the merely
passive condition. The presence of a stranger does not necessarily
spoil the phenomena. It depends rather on the percipient's feelings
with regard to him.
All the percipients except myself seem to have some sort of clear
vision of the object, more so, often, when the object is afterwards rightly
named ; many of the successes are reached with a certain decision
which adds to the effect on those . present. For myself, I cannot
describe my sensation as a visualisation of any kind. It seemed rather
to be by some wholly subjective process that I knew what the agents
were looking at. This is true even in the cases when I had to distin
guish between the five and the six, or the one and the seven. Those
percipients who seem really to see the object often find that there are
many in view from time to time, but that one persistently recurs.
Mrs. Thaw found it so particularly, and perhaps this accounts both for
her variety of visualisation, her successful description of complicated
objects, and her tendency to failure in the routine experiments, as in
cards, when the whole pack seemed to march across the mental stage.
There seems to be a case of latency in the percipient's mind, or of
deferred transference from the agent's mind, in the trial of April 2Sth,
in which Mr. Wyatt named the 10 of Diamonds some minutes after it
had been exchanged for another object. A similar tendency will be
noticed during some experiments still to be described, in which the
percipient selects the first of two ideas which have been in the agent's
mind, when the agent is consciously thinking only of the second one.
The general results show, as has been noticed, a marked tendency
to fail with monotony of sensation, and to succeed with new and
distinct objects, or by changing the class of objects frequently.
The table of experiments on colours shows a distinct fact, so far as
such a short series may carry weight. Of 55 guesses made by
the percipients 35 were distributed among the first four colours
of the spectrum, or not much more than might be expected by chance ;
while of the 14 correct guesses 13 were made with these first four
Some Experiments in Thought-Transference. 431
colours. It would seem imre than probable that this result was
due to the more vivid impression made on the agent's mind by these
more brilliant colours. In the same way, of ten trials made with the
sensation of taste, the more distinct tastes were perceived and named
correctly, as salt and mustard, while weak or mixed tastes were not
named.
To sum up the results of all the experiments, we have as follows :
Cards and numbers show only a little more than the average of chance.
Of 84 playing cards 2 were right on the first guess. Counting first and
second guesses, there were 10 right, while chance would give 4 right
at the most. In naming the suit there were 27 successes to a probable
21 if by chance alone.
Of 41 numbers (using the nine digits) 8 were right on the first
guess, while chance would give 4 right. Counting two guesses 14 were
right, while chance would give 9 right. •
Of 26 miscellaneous objects, 6 were rightly named on the first guess,
and 2 on the second guess, or 8 in all, while chance would give a very
small fraction of probable success.
Of 55 colors, 14 were correct on the first guess and 11 on the
second guess, while chance gives 6 on the first guess to 14 actually
named, and 1 2 on the two guesses, to 25 actually named.
The last trial of April 28th consisted of the transference to the
percipient's mind of the agent's thought in regard to an object in the
next room ; the percipient being simply told to get something in the
next room, goes in there and reaches the vicinity of the object but
fails to pick it up. This introduces a class of experiments much like
the willing game, but without contact. In these experiments, with
motion necessary on the part of the percipient, it is sometimes the idea
of an object that is transferred, and it sometimes seems to be an
indistinct motor impulse of some kind, leading him near the object.
Insomuch as the percipient was not, and could not be blindfolded,
these experiments do not fulfil the conditions we laid down for ourselves,
but as a matter of fact the percipient did not look at the agents. The
experience of an honest percipient in such experiments is, however,
sometimes the best kind of evidence for the tendency to involuntary
deception. At the same time he may sometimes get first-class personal
proof as to actual transference of the agent's thought.
The tendency to get the first of two ideas which may have distinctly
entered the agent's mind seems to afford evidenceof thought-transference
as distinct from involuntary guidance. For the agent's conscious effort
is entirely toward the second of the two, while the percipient may
persist in the direction of the first object. Several cases of this kind
were noted. In one of the last trials, the percipient, after much con
fusion, brings both objects thought of—the bag and the book.
it a 2
432 Dr. A. Blair Thaw.
One useful object of this kind of experiment is for diversion ; at
the same time they serve as an indirect aid to the study of the condi
tions to be sought for, in conducting experiments of the more routine
sort, with all the usual checks on error applied. If we accept the
evidence for thought-transference as sufficient, these latter trials may be
as useful as any others for the study of these conditions.
Of the 30 trials to be described, 13 (marked below with an
asterisk*) were complete successes and 12 more (marked below with a
crossf) were partially successful.
Experiments like the Willing Game, but Without Contact.
March 5th, 1892.
Mrs. Thaw Percipient and Dr. Thaw Agent.
Mrs. Thaw, after a few experiments in hypnotism, while apparently fully
conscious, but in passive condition, was told to
*lst Experiment. Get object on table on which were a dozen bonks, lamp,
bag, fan, &c. The fan was the object the agent had in his mind.—Percipient
fumbled with bag, then touched fan suddenly. (Mrs. Thaw during this
evening resisted original impulses except in No. 5.) Again told, " Go get it
for me," and at once picked up fan.
*2iid Experiment. Select book from case. (Case containing 200 books, and
23 sets.)—First took third or fourth book from right; then on second command
took right book.
3rd Experiment. To do something in room. The agent intended
percipient to imitate pouring water for pitcher.-—Not done.
*4th Experiment. Told to do something on mantel. Mantel has eleven
articles, clock, vase, bell, &c. The agent intended percipient to ring bell.—
After some fumbling percipient takes up the bell and rings it.
*5th Experiment. Told to do something on one side of room, where are
mantel, piano, &c, and small table with music box. Agent intended her to
open musical box.—Percipient went to music box at once. On second
command opened it.
*6th Experiment. Told to do something on mantel. —After some fumbling
around took minute hand of clock (clock stopped at quarter-past and no
glass over face) and moved it to half-past when it rang. (Correct.)
7th Experiment. Dr. Thaw thought first to will her to lie on the sofa,
then changes to picking up a paper from the sofa.—Percipient goes and lies
down on sofa.
8th Experiment. Dr. Thaw went into the next room (half-lit), saw a red
book on the table with twenty others, but thought it too noticeable and
chose a bottle ; then came back and told Mrs. Thaw to get something from
the next room.—She went in and got the red book.
i!)th Experiment. Told to move a large article to middle of the room.—At
once proceeded to move one of two chairs from far end of the room, but took
the wrong one.
HOth Experiment. Told to do something.—After tome hesitation and
Some Experiments in Thought-Transference. 433
-wandering about, went to upper shelf of bookcase and set up straight a little
fallen statuette which was broken from its base.
Thing selected was to set up broken pieces of small vase near by. Subject
has this in mind first and was about to do so when stopped.
March 6th, 1892.
*llth Experiment. Told to get book.—Right on second trial.
USth Experiment. Told to get a book.—Chose one set out of a set of
eight or ten. There were two dozen (23) sets in the case. Got the right set
on second trial, but the wrong book.
ilSth Experiment. Told to get a book.—Got the right set again and the
wrong book.
Hlh Experiment.—Told to pick up something and hand it to somebody.
Dr. Thaw's thought was to hand a stool to Mrs. Thaw's mother. Dr. Thaw's
brother and Mrs. Thaw's mother had a distinct idea in mind that Dr. Thaw
had selected a nursery book to hand to Mrs. Thaw's child.—Mrs. Thaw did
the latter at once. Coincidence ?
M'Ah Experiment. Told to do something. The thing intended was to
open piano.—Went to the piano at once, then played on it.
March 8th.
*l6th Experiment. Mr. M. H. Wyatt, after some successful hypnotic
experiments, was awaked and told to do something on table.—Percipient
picked up the hat, which was the thing intended. Table had a hundred
miscellaneous things on it, many as noticeable as the hat.
*17th Experiment. —Mrs. Thaw picked up a paper roll. (Correct.)
H8th Experiment. Subject, Mr. Wyatt. Told to do something on desk.
Dr. Thaw first thinks of putting a pen in a bristle pen-wiper, then of lighting
a match from an ordinary matchbox at a desk full of things.
(a) Mr. Wyatt puts the pen in the pen-wiper.
(6) Mrs. Thaw, who was present, and with no more knowledge or
information of Dr. Thaw's thought than Mr. Wyatt had, says she
knows, and scratched the match. Had immediate transference
apparently.
\10th Experiment. Both told to arrange things. The room in disorder.—
Mrs. Thaw picks up paper on the floor. (Correct.) Mr. Wyatt arranges the
desk .
April 17th, 1892.
Name of object written on paper and passed around. Present, Dr. and
Mrs. Thaw, Mr. and Mrs. Dow, and Miss C. Miss C. Percipient. All
Agents.
*lst Experiment. Willed to kiss Mrs. Thaw. Percipient touched the
piano in passing but did not stop. Went directly to Mrs. Thaw and stood
over her, saying, " I must come here," and then stooped and kissed her.
t2it(? Experiment. Willed to go to Mrs. Dow and remove her glasses.
Went at once to Mrs. Dow and stood over her, but did not remove glasses.
Dr. Thaw Percipient. All present Agents. The percipient in high-backed
upholstered chair with back toward the rest.
434 Dr. A. Blair Thaw.
*lst Experiment. Willed to pick up handkerchief. Many papers and
things having been strewn around the room at the time.—Percipient said :
" Well, this is the end of the room. I can't and won't go the other way.'
Then went to a chair and picked up the handkerchief.
i2nd Experiment. Willed percipient to sit in a small chair, there being
two in that end of the room, just alike.—Percipient said again : " Well, it's
this end of the room anyway." (Going to right end as in first experiment.)
Went directly to chair, one of the two, and sat down, not in the one decided
in by the company, but in the one first thought of. (After percipient had sat
down, Mrs. Dow said that she understood the wrong chair and that she had
been willing him to sit in the chair he was sitting in.)
iSrd Experiment. Willed not to get up from the high-backed chair.—
Stayed so long in the chair we thought him going to sleep. Then got up,
swaying back and forth, then staggered around the room, without offering
to touch anything. Then said, '' I think the best thing I can do is to go and
sit down again in my chair. "
' Experiment. Willed to close piano.—Went at once to piano but did
not close it.
ioth Experiment. Willed to pour some water from a pitcher on mantel on a
flower, also on mantel.—Went to the mantel, but did not succeed in doini;
what we desired.
April 28</i
Mrs. Thaw Percipient. Mr. M. H. Wyattand Dr. Thaw Agents. In the
next four experiments an object was selected in another room and then the
percipient sent in for it. No clue was given as to what part of the room.
*lst Object Selected. A Wooden Cupid, from a corner-piece in room with
eight other objects on it.—Percipient first brought a photo from the lower
shelf of corner-piece, then said : " It's the wooden Cupid."
*2nd Object. Matchbox on mantel. —Percipient seemed confused at first
and brought two photos, then said : " It's the brass matchbox on mantel."
*3rd Object. A Vellum Book on table, among twenty other books,
chosen ; but a bag under one window was thought of first.—Percipient went,
to table, put her hand on the book, then went to the bag and took it up,
then back to the table and took the vellum book and then the bag, and
appeared with both. Percipient was in sight of agents during this time, but
did not see them.
4th Object. Book on small table, among ten others.—Missed.
EXPerIMkNTS IN GUkSSING IMaGINkD SCkNkS WHICH HAD NO EXISTkNCk.
Mrs. Thaw Percipient. Dr. Thaw and Mr. Wyatt Agents.
1st Scene. Locomotive running away without engineer, and tears up
station.—Missed.
2nd Scene. The first real Flying Machine going over Madison Square
Tower, and the people watching.—Percipient : I see lots of people. Crowda
are going to war. They ore so excited. Are they throwing water ? (Percipient
said afterwards she thought it was a fire and that was the reason of the
crowd.) Or sailors pulling at ropes. Agent said, " What are they doing
Some Experiments in Thought-Transference. 435
Percipient : They arc all looking up. It is a balloon or someone in trouble up
there. Agent said, " Why balloon 1 " Percipient: They are all looking up.
Agent said, " I thought of a possible scene in the future." Percipient : Oh,
it's thefirst man flging. That's wlutt he's doing up there. Agent : " Where is
it ? " Percipient : In the citg.
In view of the fact that so much can be done with so little effort
in the way of actually testing for oneself the evidence for thought-
transference, the wonder is that a greater number of persons do not
take up this subject. It could be made a matter for summer recreation,
and by observing or studying the conditions for success as well and as
carefully as those against error, the results are likely to be very interest
ing, if nothing more, to those personally engaged in the trials.
436 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
III.
THE SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS.
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
Chapter V.
Sensory Automatism and Induced Hallucinations.
B\(iroftev yap aprt SI itroirrpov cV alvlypar,.
ARGUMENT.
I.—This paper forms one of a series of chapters intended to illustrate
the emergence into ordinary or supraliminal consciousness of
faculties habitually subliminal;—acting, that is to say, below the
conscious threshold.
II.—We are now to discuss sensory automatism, or the supraliminal
emergence of images not due either to external stimuli or to
voluntary attention. Such images are called hallucinations, and
they may be either spontaneous or induced.
III. —The experimental induction of hallucinations forms a penetrating
method of psychological experiment.
IV.—It has been practised already in hypnotism ; and " suggested "
hallucinations, during or after the hypnotic trance, have already
afforded much instruction. Discussion of the soitrce, the
optical behaviour, and the content of such hallucinations.
V.—But can wo get at such instruction in a convenient form, without
using hypnotism ? We are familiar with after-images, memory-
images, and imagination-imagzs. To what extent can any of
these be recalled, intensified, or fixated for our study 1
VI.—Experiments of Mr. C. M. Bakewell on postponed or persistent
after-images. Explanation of certain supposed "ghosts" as
postponed after-images.
VII.—Transition from true after-images, which are entoptie, to memory-
images, which are " mind's-eyo " or central pictures. Observa
tions of Professor Flournoy on his own illusions hypnagogiques.
. III.—How far, then, is it possible voluntarily to externalise images
from the subliminal storehouse ? Spontaneous externalisation
of number forms and other visual schemata of thought. Case of
M. Yowanovitch.
IX.—Audition coloree, or sound-seeing, with its allied synesthesia;,
affords a further example both of definiteness of character, and
of capacity of externalisation, in these entencophalic quasi-
percepts. Case reported by Professor Gruber.
X.—Crystal-vision as an empirical artifice for externalising centrally
The Subliminal Consciousness. 437
initiated pictures. Experiments with hypnotised subjects at
Brighton, illustrating the transmission of crystal-pictures as
post-hypnotic suggestions, conveyed to the subject either by
verbal injunction or by telepathy.
XI.— Experiments of Dr. Gibotteau, involving the telepathic trans
mission of analogous pictures to himself, and by him to another
subject.
XII. —Experience seems to show that these sensory automatisms do not
necessarily indicate any actual or latent disease or abnormality
in the automatists, but may occur in persons whose senses and
general physique are above the average standard.
XIII.—Experiments in crystal-vision, &c., made by Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
and comments thereon.
XIV.—Experiments in crystal-vision made by Professor Pierre Janet.
XV.—Experiments in crystal-vision and shell-hearing made by Miss X.
XVI.—Experiments in crystal-vision by Miss A, and cognate spontaneous
phenomena.
XVII.—Experiments of a cognate type by Mr. Keulemans.
XVIII.—Experiments by the Princess di Cristoforo, and by Major Schreibcr.
XIX.— From these experiments, which indicate the emergence in induced
hallucinations of various forms of supernormal knowledge, it is
inferred that our centrally-initiated sensations may convey
instruction as to the external world as veritable as that which
peripherally-initiated sensations convey. The rarity and the
practical uselessness of such phenomena tell in favour of the
view that this supernormal perceptivity has not been acquired
by terrene evolution.
XX.—Review of the forms of vision known to us, external and internal.
Starting from the synesthesie of which sound-seeing is a con
spicuous example, and which stand on the dividing line between
external and internal percepts, we first follow external vision
through entoptic vision and after-images into our ordinary sight
of the world around us. We next follow internal vision through
memory-images and imagination-images to those subliminally-
initiated images, post-hypnotic, hypermnesic, hypersesthetic, &c.,
of which the crystal-visions above cited have supplied examples.
XXI. —The wide scope and promising future of this novel form of psycho
logical experiment. Invitation to send records of experiment to
the writer, at Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
[Some part of the following paper was read at the International
Congress of Experimental Psychology, London, August 3rd, 1892, as a
communication on " The Experimental Induction of Hallucinations."]
I.—We have already discussed in several papers certain modes in
which the consciousness and the faculties ordinarily known to us appear
438 Jiff. F. W. H. Myers.
to be interrupted or supplemented by the emergence of some kind of
faculty presumably inherent in our own being, yet not included in the
stream of thought and feeling with which we are accustomed to
identify ourselves.
The nature of this faculty is, to begin with, entirely obscure : and
the word subliminal has been chosen for it expressly as assuming
nothing more than the obvious fact that its operation is in some sense
beneath what we are accustomed to term the threshold of conscious
ness. Again, this subliminal activity has been regarded as a kind of
consciousness because the hidden form of activity seems strongly to
resemble the superficial and familiar one to which the word conscious
ness is commonly applied. The observed operations of the subliminal
part of the self are often such as, when occurring in supraliminal life,
involve the presence of consciousness. And moreover, one of the most
striking of the phenomena which we are trying to collect and explain
consists in the occasional complete replacement of the supraliminal
consciousness by the subliminal, which then, of course, though tempor
arily and as it were accidentally, becomes supraliminal in its turn.
Only a few groups of subliminal phenomena have as yet been dis
cussed. But it has already become evident that such phenomena are
too numerous and too imperfectly known to be at present arranged in
any completely logical series. We must be content to indicate several
possible modes of arrangement, and to use each mode in turn as may
best subserve that clearness which it is not easy to attain when facts at
once complex and fragmentary have to be pieced together.
For the sake of clearness I introduced the metaphor of a spectrum
of total consciousness, prolonged at either end beyond the limits of
supraliminal consciousness—extending at the red end into the deeps of
organic life, and at the violet end into a world of supersensory percep
tions ; stfpersensory at least in the sense that the recognised external
senses can here no longer be employed. I have illustrated the opera
tion of subliminal perceptions and powers lying beyond the red end by
certain facts of hypnotic suggestion. I have then tried to show that
similar subliminal activity is going on also along the red to violet
spectrum of which we are supraliminally as well as subliminally
cognisant. For this purpose I cited certain facts connected with
genius and with dreams. I have now to follow these subliminal activities
beyond the violet end of the spectrum—into the region of telepathy,
clairvoyance, retrocognition, premonition.
Observe, however, that the two subliminal prolongations of my
imaginary spectrum—say the phenomena of power over organic pro
cesses, and of clairvoyance—do in fact approach each other, instead
of lying more and more widely apart, so that my spectrum ought
to be imagined as circular, not linear, and with the infra-red and
The Subliminal Consciousness. 439
ultra-violet regions running into each other in some deeply hidden way.
And observe in the second place that any real glimpse which we get of
the subliminal spectrum is apt not only to show us certain lines or bands
with specitil clearness, but to give us also a dimmer view of distant
portions. Thus, for instance, the lessons of hypnotic suggestion are by
no means limited to its profounder organic effects. We shall have to
recur to it in connection with clairvoyance and precognition also.
II.—And we are coming now to a point where it seems convenient
no longer to confine our attention to one region of the spectrum, but
rather to take a certain definite group of phenomena, and trace the
lines and bands which correspond to those phenomena in all parts of
our spectrum. I propose to attempt this task in the present paper for
the phenomena of sensory automatism.
First, however, I must define what I mean by the automatic action
of the senses. Up to this point, the indications or messages sent
upwards by the subliminal self have been of a kind not easy to appor
tion between the two groups—sensory and motor—into which ordinary
supraliminal nervous activity is commonly divided. Under which head
should we have classed the production of a blister by suggestion ? or
the musical impulse of Mozart ? or even ordinary dreams,—which mix
sensory imagery with representation of motion, finding outlet occa
sionally in actual movements of head and limbs?
But we are now coming to subliminal " messages " of a more
precise and definite character. We are passing from messages which
carry all their meaning in the phenomenon itself to messages which
contain apparentlypurposive s'ujns ;—gestures, pictures, or verbalisation.
And the verbalisation (for instance) may come in any one of the four
•ways in which we verbalise in common life ; in the mainly sensory modes,
namely reading and hearing, or in the mainly motor modes, namely speak
ing and writing. We shall find, no doubt, that among these verbal and
pictorial messages the interchange between sensory and motor phe
nomena will be subtle and frequent. But still we shall gain in clearness
if at first we ignore such interchange; if we take first the group of
sensory automatic messages, and then the group of motor automatic
messages, beginning in each case with messages whose content falls
well within the habitual range of supraliminal perception, and going
on to messages of telepathic or clairvoyant type.
And I shall define the automatic action of each sense in turn as the
production and presentation of images due neither to external stimuli nor
to the voluntary direction of attention from within. Let us take the most
important sense as a type. Vision is usually divided into external and
internal ; external vision resulting from the impression made by the
•world around us upon the retina, and constituting our only source of
fresh visual knowledge ; and internal vision consisting of memory
440 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
images and imagination-images ;—the voluntary or involuntary recall
or rearrangement of images originally received through the retina from
the world without us. Such recall or rearrangement may, of course,
help us to new ideas (as to the first conception of a steam-engine), but
cannot, in the ordinary view, inform us of any fresh facta external to
ourselves. And inasmuch as this internal visualisation seems useful
only as an aid to the carrying on of our mental processes, most men are
apt to dwell mainly on that part of it which is voluntary, and to
treat as insignificant or even morbid that part of it which is involun
tary or automatic. They attach importance to Watt's power of seeing
distinctly in his mind's eye the behaviour of saturated vapour inside
a vessel of varying temperature and capacity ; but they regard dreams
as trifling, and waking hallucinations as mere indications of disease.
As to the vague fragmentary pictures, amounting neither to dream
nor to hallucination, which are constantly welling up "of their own
accord " in most men, it is only quite lately that they have been traced
and noted down even as a curiosity.
The reader will have already inferred that my own arrangement of
modes of visualisation is different in an important particular. I
recognise, of course, that external vision is the only means of obtain
ing optical knowledge—I do not say of obtaining visual knowledge of
any kind—of the material world. And I recognise voluntary internal
visualisation—recollection and rearrangement of images under the
guidance of the supraliminal self—as an important, though not an
essential aid to ordinary mental operation. But out of the refuse,
so to say, of the ordinary classification ;—out of those residual phe
nomena of internal vision, those unbidden and meaningless images which
are commonly regarded as the mere sparks that fly from the mind's
hurrying engine,—out of these I make a third class, of automatic
visualisations, which I hold for at least as important as either of the
other two classes. I maintain that visual knowledge, both of the
material world and of what we at present call immaterial relations,
is in fact attainable through visions which I term automatic, as being
neither evoked nor evocable by the supraliminal self, but which, as
I hold, have their origin (or proximate origin) in the subliminal self,
and carry up its messages into our current and familiar conscious
ness. I of course admit that in some cases these messages merely
indicate disease and disintegration ; and that in most cases they are
meaningless, fragmentary, or abortive. But I claim that in some
cases they convey real knowledge, acquired by some perceptivity
which is possessed only by the subliminal and not by the supraliminal
self. What the relation of that original perceptivity may be to
sight, as we know sight, I do not pretend to say. Since the knowledge
presents itself in pictorial form we may conjecture that it normally
The Subliminal Consciousness. 441
involves the activity of those parts of the brain which are concerned
with vision ; butwhether the unimpaired existence of those parts is neces
sary to this automatic visualisation I cannot tell. We know that usually
the external eye must work for six or seven years after birth if the parts
of the brain which govern vision are to retain through life, after the eye's
destruction, their power of internal sight. It is conceivable that
in some such way as the eye's activity is required to develop the power
of voluntary inward visualisation, so also the power of voluntary
inward visualisation may be required to develop (though it need not
create) the power of automatic inward visualisation. This point deserves
notice because, as we shall see before long, it can to some extent be
settled by actual observation and experiment.
Such, then, is my first definition of the sensory automatism with
which I have now to deal. But where, it may be asked, am I to get my
examples ? How am I to fill up this wide framework with the scrappy
materials which others have deemed of so little worth 1 I reply that
I draw my material mainly from sensory hallucinations, spontaneous
or experimental ; and that no one can set a limit to the material thus
forthcoming, inasmuch as it was only, so to say, yesterday that spon
taneous hallucinations were first registered, or experimental hallucina
tions induced.
One word, in passing, upon the term hallucination—so often occur
ring in these Proceedings, and now emphasised for even wider use. A
hallucination of the senses, as defined by Edmund Gurney, is "a per
cept which lacks, but which can only by distinct reflection be recognised
as lacking, the objective basis which it suggests." 1
The word as thus defined is mainly of negative connotation ; and
for that very reason was all the more appropriately applied to phe
nomena as to whose nature we wished to take as little for granted as
possible. But for the same reason it has been objected to by some
critics as involving in popular parlance so marked an absence of truth
or reality that the prefix to this noun of the adjective veridical, or
truth-telling, seemed almost to involve a paradox. The word still
seems to me indispensable, but I may point out that something more
of positive is now given to the same conception if for hallucination we
substitute " sensory automatism " ; thus implying not so much that
the picture fails truly to represent the objects present to supraliminal
vision, as that it aims at representing objects present to subliminal per
ception in some unknown way.
I have said that neither the observation of the spontaneous halluci
nations of sane persons nor the induction of experimental ones has
until quite lately received any serious attention. The very idea of a
" Census of Hallucinations "—in default of which speculation on the
i Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., p. 459.
442 Mr. F. W H. Myers.
subject was mere guesswork—was duo to Edmund Gurney ; and to
his first effort was indirectly owing that wider International Census
over which Professor Sidgwick has presided in England, and of which
it is hoped that a report will appear in an early number of these
Proceedings. In view of this expected accession of knowledge I will
here postpone any detailed consideration of spontaneous hallucina
tions, merely reminding the reader that in some hundreds of cases
already printed we have shown ground, more or less strong in each
case, for supposing that the hallucination was in some sense veridical ;
.—implied either a, clairvoyant knowledge of past, present, or future
facts, or a telepathic correspondence with the minds of living or
departed persons other than the percipient himself. With the general
lines of this evidence the reader will be familiar ; and he will have
observed also that such veridical hallucinations have been treated
throughout by Edmund Gurney and myself as belonging in some sort
to subjacent strata of the intelligence, rather than to the ordinary
stream of life. It is this view, often before hinted at in these
Proceedings, which I am here endeavouring to develop in especial con
nection with various experimental facts which point the same way.
III.—It is, I say, to experimentally-induced hallucinations that I
must now turn. Specimens of various types of these have been already
published, but since there seems still to exist in many minds some
dislike to this whole group of experiments, it will be well to explain
briefly the position which, in my view, the group in question holds
among the researches of experimental psychology ; to show how inevit
ably we are led to seek in this very direction if experiment is ever to
penetrate as deeply as introspection in its own way penetrated into the
springs of our being.
The movement which is now striving to convert psychology into a
truly experimental science may be seen on analysis to have originated
mainly in two impulses, which were not at first closely allied to each
other, and are even now but imperfectly fused together.
The first of these impulses was due to the general scientific spirit of
the age. Savants, accustomed to the exactitude of modern biology, and
finding one branch hereof, namely neurology, conterminous with a
psychological region mapped out in so much vaguer a style, have
naturally wished to push their methods as far as possible over the
border. But here two great difficulties are encountered. The first
and obvious difficulty depends on the fact that psychology and neuro
logy, the objective and subjective aspects of the work of mind or brain,
although in one sense identical in their subject-matter, are in another
sense separated by a gulf wider than that which separates neurology
from any other physical science whatever. Neurology can but photo
graph the outside of the fortress ; it has no direct testimony as to what
The Subliminal Consciousncss. 443
goes on within. A second difficulty lies in the fact that we cannot
deal with the human race in the same way as biology deals with
animals and plants. Interbreeding, environmental changes, vivisection,
are impossible. We can indeed study the sense-organs, cerebral and
external, in life and death. But beyond this, the psycho-physiologist
is mainly reduced to the employment of physical methods not even
special to biology ; determinations of time, weight, movement, etc., such
as in one form or another are common to all sciences.
Here again, then, there is a danger that the experiments will not be
sufficiently intimate to bring real discovery in their train. They help
us rather to define accurately facts already roughly known, than to get
at underlying facts of which common consciousness does not inform us.
To do this we must pass from general mechanical artifices to artifices
special to psychology. We may say that psychology is passing from the
initial state of each science in turn, when the new science depends on
observation only without experiment, into the second state when it
depends on experiment ; but that thus far it remains in that early stage
of the second state when the methods of experiment are such as other
sciences have suggested, not such as this special branch of inquiry
suggests for itself, or can use with unique effect. Thus, for instance,
in the study of crystals men began by measuring their external angles.
Then they sliced them and found their planes of cleavage ; and it
seemed as though the crystals had been examined through and
through. But with the discovery of the polarisation of light came a
more intimate analysis ; and we classify the crystal now by the be
haviour of the ray within. What we want to get hold of in psychology
is some experiment which shall compare with the registry of reflexes
and the description of end-organs as the polariscope compares with the
goniometer ; which shall avail to detect double or multiple refraction
within a personality which to less subtle analyses seems still a limpid
homogeneous whole.
But in order to hit upon these specifically psychological experiments
we must, so to say, become as little children ; we must put ourselves
hack into a state of scientific infancy ; we must reach at the moon to
see if by any chance we can pull it down. We must be content to
grope, as pioneers have always groped, among a forest of obscure possi
bilities, rather than to march by a series of small but indisputable
advances along a road whose bearing is already known. This attitude
is unwelcome to men who have grown accustomed to definite, irrefra
gable progress ; and discoveries in a nascent science are consequently
apt to fall to outsiders.
And thus it came about that that second main impulse towards an
experimental psychology of which I have already spoken took its rise
in the crude theory, but fruitful experiments, of a discoverer who was
4M Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
also a charlatan. It was Mesmer who started the first really intimate,
really penetrating method of psychological experiment. And so new,
so unwelcome, was that conception of profoundly modified personality
which mesmerism or hypnotism implies, that it has taken a century—
I do not say to work it out—but to get it recognised as worth serious
study by official savants.
The path which this priceless method of experiment has actually
followed has been lengthened and deflected by much of accident,
prejudice, and error. But we have now advanced far enough to be able
to look back through the winding ways, and to ask ourselves what
really was the short cut which we ought to have taken;—the hint which
ought to have set us on the right road. Undoubtedly that hint was,
offered to us by spontaneous somnambulism. In spontaneous somnam
bulism might at any time have been observed on a small scale the very
phenomena whose existence has been established with so much effort.
Hyperesthesia, anesthesia, alternating memory, suggestibility,—all
these, not to speak of certain other phenomena not yet equally accepted,
might have been studied in the sleep-walkers and sleep-talkers who used
to be noted as mere curiosities, as residual phenomena which it was
not worth while to try to explain.
Surely we ought to learn something from this experience. We
ought to realise that experimental psychology cannot afford to push
aside adventurous experiments, inexplicable observations. For her,
as for other sciences, it is the anomalies, the residual phenomena, which
open out fresh paths of discovery. And I believe, therefore, that I
am merely treading in the ordinary paths of progress when I suggest
that in the odd, inexplicable phenomena of hallucination, or sensory
automatism, lies the hint and germ of discoveries which shall embrace
man's whole self, whether lying above or below our transitory and
shifting threshold of conscious life.
IV.—But, it will be asked, can we make this a really experimental
study 1 Must we not content ourselves with simply watching these
fleeting hallucinatory images as they rise and pass away? Is it
possible to induce hallucinations 1 And, if possible, is it safe 1 1
i I do not recommend my readers to take drags for the purpose of inducing hallu
cinations. But since the action of drugs in generating hallucinatory sounds or images,
is at present ill-understood, it might be interesting if persons to whom such drugs are
administered for other reasons would attempt crystal-vision and report results. I
add a brief account (mainly summarised from some notes kindly sent to me by Dr.
Mitchell Bruce) of some of these toxic hallucinations, which probably result in
varying proportions from affection of the end-organ or of the brain. Salicylate of
soda in some persons causes visions, mostly unpleasant, when the eyes are shut. This
effect has been noted after five fifteen-grain doses of salicylic acid. Faces, Jtc., are
seen, as in illusion* hypnagogiqucs. Digitalis in large doses may cause subjective
sensations of light. "After taking nearly one grain of digitalin," says Dr. Lauder
Brunton, "in the course of forty-eight hours, I suffered from the centre of the field of
The Subliminal Consciousness. 445
A satisfactory answer to these questions is furnished by the con
tinual experimentation in hypnotic hallucinations which has been
carried on of late years at Nancy and elsewhere. Professor Bernheim
and his friends have conclusively proved that hallucinations can be
induced in very many subjects, healthy both in body and mind,
without any kind of consequent ill effect. There is no necessary
injury even from what looks most dangerous, namely, the very frequent
induction of hypnotic hallucination in a diseased subject. " In one
of my patients," says Dr. Bernheim,1 " a very intelligent woman
affected with locomotor ataxy, I have allowed myself to make, with her
consent, certain experiments [with the view of testing the effect of
repeated hallucinations], while carefully watching her psychical con
dition, and keeping myself prepared to stop the experiment at the
slightest alarming indication. I have on several occasions subjected
her for several days in succession to complex and repeated hallucina
tions—hypnotic and post-hypnotic, immediate and deferred—and no
trace has remained of all this. During three years that she has passed
in my ward, in spite of very frequent suggestions given in waking
hours and in the trance, her intelligence has continued equally alert, nor
has her power of initiative been impaired."
This is by no means an isolated case. Professor Bernheim himself
has several other living examples, some of whom he has allowed me to
see. And in a long series of experiments begun by Edmund Gurney at
Brighton in 1883 and continued at intervals (mainly by Professor and
Mrs. Sidgwick), up to the present time, the same healthy and intelligent
young men have been subjected (1887-92) to scores of hypnotic and
post-hypnotic hallucinations, with no bodily or mental injury whatever.
There is, therefore, no reason to suppose that the mere fact of under
going a hallucination is in itself either injurious, or an indication of
weakness or disease.2
vision being occupied by a bright spot surrounded by rainbow colours." Cannabit
indica(Indian hemp: hashisch). The hallucinationscaused bythis drug arewell known,
although their agreeable quality has been much exaggerated. An unusual degree of
motor automatism,—uncontrollable speech, gesture, and the like,—accompanies the
visual hallucinations. Automatic writing should be tried with these patients,
especially when the effect of the drug is going off, and the patient's mind appears to
himself to be in a normal state. To the hallucinations caused by alcohol and opium I
need do no more than refer. The singing in the ears caused by quinine sometimes,
develops into a definite sound, as when a patient of Dr. Mitchell Bruce's begged his
nurse to send away the barrel-organ which was perpetually repeating the same tune.
" Shell-hearing " might be tried here.
1 De la Suggestion, 1880, p. 414.
* I am assuming, of course, that the experiments are conducted on suitable sub
jects, and with proper care. Harm may no doubt be done by hallucinating weak-
minded subjects, or even by forgetting to remove the hallucination which has been
induced. I have seen a healthy and intelligent young man much puzzled at a
distressing sensation of lameness after being awakened from a trance in which several
2 H
446 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Hypnotic hallucinations have now been made in sufficient numbers
to allow us to gather from them some instruction which will simplify
our further inquiries. I will arrange these results briefly under three
heads :—
1. Source or initiation of the hypnotic hallucination.
2. Its intensity, duration, and optical behaviour.
3. Its specific nature or content.
1. "Suggestion" is now the regular answer to any question as to
the source of a hypnotic hallucination. A suggests to B that there is a
cat on the sofa ;—or B, if very sensitive, suggests to himself that there
is a cat on the sofa ;—and B then sees the cat. In my chapter on " The
Mechanism of Suggestion " I have tried to show that the most
intelligible definition which we can give to that too fashionable word
is, " an appeal which somehow reaches the subliminal consciousness,"—
whether that appeal emanates from the supraliminal consciousness of
the operator-subject himself, or from either the supraliminal or the
subliminal consciousness of some operator other than himself. In
ordinary verbal suggestion, A's supraliminal self gives the order which
B's subliminal or hypnotic self hears and obeys. In ordinary self-
suggestion, B's supraliminal self gives the order and his subliminal
self hears and obeys it. But there may be " spontaneous " self-sugges
tion, in which B's subliminal self both originates and carries out the
suggestion, without any supraliminal knowledge on B's part. And there
may be telepathic suggestion, when A's subliminal self—perhaps with
out the knowledge of his supraliminal self—conveys the message to B
at a distance. None of these four possible forms of suggestion
absolutely need the hypnotic trance, but the trance-condition seems to
facilitate all of them.
2. Next, as to the duration, intensity, and optical behaviour of
the hallucinatory image thus induced. No absolute limit can be
assigned to the duration of such an image, especially if occasionally
renewed by fresh suggestion. Its intensity may vary from mere float
ing vagueness to a mimicry so complete that the subject, asked to
decide between a real rose and a hallucinatory rose, will sometimes be
unable to say which is which. To make this mistake possible there
suggestions had been made to him and had then been dispelled. The fact was that
one of the suggestions made was that he was lame, and the operator had forgotten to
remove this. A word set the matter right ; but had this word not been spoken the
inconvenience might have lasted for some hours. The evil effects sometimes noticed
in persons who have allowed themselves to be hypnotised by Donate orother perambu-
latory mesmerists are, I believe, largely due to thn mere culpable neglect of the
mesmerist to abolish the hallucinations which he has inspired. " I have seen," says
Dr. Hamilton Osgood, the well-known physician of Boston, U.S.A., "many neuroses
cured; I have never seen one caused by suggestion. I have seen the intelligence
restored ; I have never seen a mind enfeebled by suggestion."
The Subliminal Consciousness. 447
must generally be a great intensification of the subject's ordinary
visualising power. Very few persons can voluntarily summon up an
image of a rose so life-like as to be indistinguishable from a real rose.
As to the obedience or otherwise of these hallucinatory images to
optical laws, the question is by no means easy to decide. There are two
well-known views, commonly assigned to the Nancy and Paris schools
respectively ; there is a third view of Professor Lombroso's, which thus
far lacks confirmation ; and, finally, my own way of regarding the
matter differs from all these views, although in some sense it combines
them.
A. Simplest of all is the opinion of the Nancy school, which main
tains that the optical behaviour of the image is, like the image itself,
a pure result of suggestion. The subject sees the imago modified as he
expects to see it modified. He follows the hypnotiser's hints ; and if
told that he is looking at it through a magnifying glass he sees it
enlarged, although the glass may be a plain one. There can be no
doubt that this is, at least, sometimes the case ; that, whatever other
laws may be at work, the brute force of suggestion, so to say, can some
times overrule them all.
B. Equally simple, and almost equally demonstrable in certain cases,
is the view of Binet and Ferd, which treats the hallucination as a kind
of monstrous development of some real tract or speck of light, or shade,
or colour which serves as a .point de repere, a peg on which the subject
hangs his fancied image. Thus the image will behave just as the
point de repere behaves ; that is to say it will follow optical laws, and
will be magnified by a real magnifying glass and not by a false one. The
common experiment of the hallucinatory picture recognised on a white
card by the aid of some trifling mark exemplifies this view.
C. A theory which has found few, if any, supporters has been
advanced by Professor Lombroso.1 He holds that he has produced by
suggestion hallucinatory images of the solar spectrum, which have then
been modified correctly by looking through a glass of some given
(hallucinatory) colour. The images have thus, he thinks, followed optical
laws unknown to the subject, and not suggested by the operator. He
seems to suppose that this is the result of a high degree of exteriori-
sation. The experiment should be repeated ; but even if the imaginary
spectra are more correctly modified than the subject's conscious optical
knowledge would explain, this need not show more than that the
subject's subliminal consciousness was better informed optically than
his supraliminal. The subliminal memory is, in my view, much better
stored than the supraliminal, and from better memory truer inferences
may be drawn.
1 Congres de Psyehologie Physiologique, 1889 : Rapport p. 140.
2 n 2
448 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
D. My own view, briefly, is that all hallucinations, including the
hypnotic, are essentially modifications by the subliminal self of the
supraliminal field of vision or other sensation ; and that, therefore,
we cannot expect hypnotic hallucinations, as such, to follow any
one physiological or psychological law. To understand this, let us look
round a little among the varieties of hallucination which hypnotic
suggestion can produce.
The simplest case—the case which we have been assuming thus
far—is when the hypnotiser merely suggests to the subject to see some
object which is not really present. " You see that cat," he says, and
the subject sees a cat; which may be either the definite memory-image
of some given cat, or an imagination-image of a cat—generalised, of
course, from many cats already seen. Now let us go a step further and
suggest something more complex, say a country churchyard. Here
also what is seen may be some special remembered churchyard, or an
imagination-image,—of course quite different in vividness from any
thing that the waking subject could call up. But here a new point
rises. The cat could, of course, easily be combined with the actual
scene, although it necessarily hid some part of that scene. But the
churchyard cannot thus be combined ; it must supplant the actual
scene ; and if we make adroit inquiry we shall find that it supplants
that scene in different ways, and with different degrees of completeness,
in each individual cose. Now suggest a hallucination purely of
suppression ;—what has been called a " negative hallucination," or a
" systematised anesthesia." Say, for instance, that Mr. X has left the
room, while he is in reality still present. It will soon be obvious that
much more than a mere optical phenomenon may be here produced.
Closely linked with the apparent absence of Mr. X from the then
visual field, may be a number of hallucinations of other senses,—hearing
and touch,—which group themselves about the central hallucination
in such a way as to maintain it with as little interruption as possible.
I say as little as possible ; for it often happens that some act of the
artificially invisible personage is marked enough to break the spell.
But surely, when the hallucination reaches this degree of com
plexity, we must recognise that this is no simple, isolated phenomenon.
Bather it is an intelligent adaptation of means to ends. The object is
to induce and maintain a certain erroneous idea ; and this " trunk lie,"
to use an American term, is bolstered up by sensory deceptions which
vary from minute to minute according to need. We have here, in
short, a continuous modification of the supraliminal field of perception
effected by the subliminal self.
The question as to the optical behaviour of these hallucinatory
images will therefore take another form. We must now ask, " What
resources does the subliminal self command 1 In what directions is it
The Subliminal Consciousness.
able to modify the supraliminal outlook t " At the answer to such
a question we can only guess from observing the more complex
hallucinatory images, or visions. And we note that such visions fre
quently fail in conformity to optical laws ;—for lack, if I may so say, of
optical laws to which they can conform. The crystal-visions, with
which we shall soon deal, will afford various examples of what is at the
least a strange optical confusion. I hold, therefore, that the repre
sentation of a subliminal message in visual terms is a process whose
relation to optical laws is uncertain and variable. And, therefore,
although I believe from actual observation that simple hallucinatory
images generally conform either to Bernheim's or to Binet's view, I
cannot accept either view as possessing more than a partial and
empirical truth.
3. The nature of the content of these hypnotic hallucinations has
been often discussed in these Proceedings. My readers know that,
whereas in the usual view that content depends wholly on suggestion
by word or sign acting upon the pre-existing ordinary knowledge of
the subject, in my view it often manifests knowledge subliminally
acquired by the subject, either by telepathic transmission from his
hypnotiser, or by the exercise of independent clairvoyant faculty. And
it will be seen as we proceed that I claim an equally wide range for
hallucinations induced by waking experiments.
V.—But putting aside controverted points, we see that these
hypnotically suggested hallucinations have already supplied us with
facts of deep concern to experimental psychology. Plainly the experi
ment is full of instruction. But we know that experiments are not
apt to present themselves to us at once in their best and simplest
form. Can we improve on this experiment ? Can we get rid of the
superfluous and intensify the interesting part 1
We have been studying the hallucinatory images generated in
obedience to A's suggestion in the mind of the hypnotised B.
Now, in the first place, it is no longer interesting to us that A
should have any directing voice in starting the images. It is B's
mind that we want to study, and we would rather leave it undisturbed
by ordinary verbal suggestion ; although of course we shall be glad to
observe telepathic impact, if we can.
In the second place it would plainly be more convenient if we
could dispense with hypnotisation and get B to see and describe the
hallucinations in his waking state. But can B get at these subliminal
pictures by any mere effort of will ? Can he do anything more than
merely summon up memory-images and combine them in fantastic
ways ? Can he get at anything deeper than vague day-dreams or
scrappy recollections 1 Let us consider whether, apart from such a
rare and startling incident as an actual hallucination, there is any
450 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
incident in the course of our ordinary visual imagery which may give
a hint of its possible recall, intensification, or fixation, by some
lucky artifice.
As a general rule the visual impression of any given object gets
progressively weaker. Say that I see a painted window with a figure
of Fortitude. Immediately after its direct perception it may, under
favourable circumstances, appear as an after-image. After a few minutes
it can no longer be recalled as such, but it can be summoned with less
distinctness and less apparent objectivity (though often with truer
coloration) as a memory-image. As a memory-image it gradually
becomes less definite and more generalised. After a time I cease to bo
able to recall by any effort what the figure on the window was. But
it still persists as material for imagination-images. If I am called upon
to sketch a figure of Fortitude, my sketch will probably be influenced
by the forgotten figure on the window.
VI.—This gradual effacement of the image is usually treated as
though it represented a real dissolution. In my view it is more likely
to represent a mere subsidence or percolation of the image, so to say,
into some subliminal stratum, where it is kept along with all other past
experiences of the organism, in a reservoir not generally accessible.
But since I believe that what has sunk down as rain-water may be
forced up again as springs, I shall anticipate that there may be recru
descences of decadent images,—suddenly regaining all (or more than
all) the vividness of an after-image a few seconds old. Nay more,
just as I know that the rain-fed spring may carry up in its fountain
traces of the salts through which the water has flowed in its subter
ranean course, so also I conjecture that these resurgent images may be
other than exact copies of the original impressions ; that they may
show signs of generalisation (I mean a generalisation diagrammatic and
intelligent rather than vague or blurred), or again of that intermixture
of imagination, that working up into new combinations, which I con
ceive to be a continuous subliminal process essential to all supraliminal
exercise of inventive faculty. I will give some instances of these resur
gent unages, beginning with a remarkable case of postponed or per
sistent after-images sent to me by Mr. C. M. Bakewell, lately a pupil
of Professor W. James, who has sent me a concordant account.
I. The Experiment.
M. 42. 18, North Weber-street, Colorado Springs, California.
On retiring at night I look fixedly at my lamp, or some other conspicuous
object, for a few seconds, varying the time according to the brilliancy of the
object.
With my eyes still fixed on the object, I put out my light, at the same
time closing my eyes. I am then careful to keep my eyes closed until I
The Subliminal Consciousness. 451
fall asleep, when, presumably, nature keeps them closed for me. If I
awake in the night I am still careful not to open my eyes.
On awaking in the morning I open my eyes on a plain white ceiling,
and instantly close them again, having just admitted a vague flash of light
into the eye.
II. The Result.
Observing these rules, I often found that in the morning the light-
flashed retina would vibrate to the picture which had last occupied it the
night before. Or, if this is assuming too much, since an objector might say
I had not proved that the sensation was not " centrally initiated " ;—at least,
there would stand the object before my closed eyes in all the vividness of
objective reality.
I will not trouble you with a detailed account of all my experiments, but
shall mention one which will serve as the type of a class of results, which
seem to throw doubt on the suggestion that these sensations are " centrally
initiated " ; and which also seem to differentiate my pictures—which I call
tardy positive after-images—from the picture which flows in the hypnopompic
train. I quote from my note-book, from the record made the same morning:—
"Last evening, when ready for bed, I took hold of my lamp-extinguwher,
glanced at a frame on my wall containing a number of pictures, immediately
pulled the string of the extinguisher, at the same time closing my eyes. I
was careful to keep them closed all the time before going to sleep—not an
easy matter when I felt I could not open them—and, as I was somewhat
excited in anticipation of the picture I was to see in the morning, it took
longer than usual to fall asleep. When I awoke day had dawned. I opened
my eyes and immediately closed them. To my surprise I saw before me
the lamp, and not the picture I was intent on seeing. But the lamp stood
out clearly—rather an ugly lamp—with its pink shade and pink china base,
with flowered pattern in green and white, and with its brass trimmings, just
as it appears at night when the light is streaming through the shade and
lighting up the base. Now, in trying to see why this and not the picture
I was looking for appeared, the obvious explanation occurred to me that as
I had glanced at the lamp just before looking at the picture, and as the
latter was comparatively quite a dark object, my instantaneous glimpse of it
had not left a strong enough trace behind to appear in the morning ; nor
had it been strong enough to destroy the image which I had got from my
lamp."
On several other occasions have I been equally surprised by seeing start
out before me objects which I was not expecting. But in every such case
the pictures seen in the morning have been of objects seen the evening be
fore, shortly before retiring.
I am by no means always successful, but the successes when they do come
are startling in their vividness.
I am most successful when awaking at or very soon after daybreak.
Once, after failing to get my image in the morning, I dozed off, and was
fortunate enough to awake in the midst of a beautiful " hypnopompic " train
of images ; and, recollecting my failure the same morning to get my tardy
after-image, I immediately directed my attention to the object I had then
been expecting—the same lamp mentioned above—and it at once took its
452 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
place vividly in that train. But this case seems to be of a very different sort
from the others, and meets with a much simpler explanation.
III. Corroboration of Experiments by Others.
Three out of six students of psychology who have faithfully tried the ex
periment have been successful.
Professor Scott, of Michigan, I am told, has been quite successful. It
was, in fact, through learning of his success one time with his pincushion
that I was led in the first place to try the experiments.
IV. Difficulties, Conclusions, &c.
I have already mentioned the fact that I am by no means always success
ful in getting the morning image even when I have faithfully observed the
rules of observation. I at first explained this to my own satisfaction by
supposing that the tardy positive after-image was a function of (1) the time
of the original stimulus ; (2) the time elapsing between this stimulus and the
morning light-flash ; and (3) the amount of light which had penetrated the
eyelids and had been softly stimulating the retina before I awoke to open
my eyes and close them for the expected image. But I have not been able
to prove this to my own satisfaction.
Another difficulty has come up, however, in my discovery that my best
«uccesses came with my first attempts.
It seems as if we have in these morning pictures, secondary or tardy
positive after-images ; as if, in addition to the first positive after-image
immediately arising, there was a feeble series of vibrations, which, if left
undisturbed by counter-vibrations, gradually by their summation came to be
of sufficient importance to give a bright positive image, provided any sudden
uniform stimulation of the retina should set these banked-up energies off.
If this be the explanation, we ought to be able to get these images, it
would seem, after a shorter interval, with the proper initial stimulus, and the
proper subsequent light-flash. On this line, too, I hope to carry out my
experiments when I have more leisure, and get my room arranged.
Another question that arises is, how far are these remnant vibratiuncles
(if I may be allowed to borrow a word from Hartley) destroyed, or
neutralised, by such sequent retinal stimulation ? It would seem from my
experiments that a certain amount of such stimulation may be received
without preventing the summation of the vibratiuncles.
If the explanation above suggested be the true one, we seem to have
some light thrown on the problem of crystal-vision (a suggestion which I had
made to a friend before hearing from Professor James).
It seems to me that these experiments may also throw some light on the
question of dream imagery, but I shall not trespass further on your time.
Chas. M. Bakewell.
Mr. Bakewell's experience, which shows us after-images of an unparalleled
persistence, and a rarely paralleled definiteness of coloration, suggests an
explanation for a special group of ghost stories (which we have never regarded
as evidential), where a face seen overnight in a picture presents itself
during the night as an apparition. The following narrative, illustrating
The Subliminal Consciousness. 453
this class of hallucinations possibly reducible to mere after-images, was sent
to us by the Rev. A. Horsbrugh (Bengal chaplain retired), of Granville-
terrace, Edinburgh :
April 16th, 1891.
In September, 1888, I was staying in a farmhouse in the Kyles of Bute.
My friend and I were out sailing, and were becalmed and much delayed on
our homeward run. We did not get in till 12 p.m. After eating a hearty
supper we turned in for the night. My bed was one of those old-fashioned,
heavily-curtained beds often seen in the Highlands. Being tired, I soon fell
asleep. About 2 a.m. I awoke with the feeling that someone was looking
at me, and for the space, say, of 10 to 15 seconds I distinctly saw a face
gazing at me from the opening in the curtains. It was a face I had never seen
before. My hair stood up on my head, and I felt cold ; but reason prevailed as
I thought of my late and heavy supper, and soon again I was fast asleep. In
the morning the first thing I saw was a miniature portrait of the face I had
seen hanging over the mantelpiece. On making inquiry, I heard that this
man had lived in the house and died in that room, but this event had occurred
so long since that this information was second-hand from hearsay. My theory
accounting for this supposed apparition is this : that one of the last things I
saw before turning in was the small portrait, which, as it were, remained
photographed on my retina, and the disordered digestion did the rest.
Lewis C. Bkuce.
VII.—The distinction between after-images and memory-images,
although sometimes neglected by careless writers, is a marked one ;
since after-images, properly so called, are a form of entoptic vision, due
to the actual condition of the retina at the moment ; while memory-
images are a form of that " mind's-eye " vision (central, cerebral,
internal, subjective) which lacks as yet a recognised scientific name.
Nevertheless, a transitional phenomenon is found in illusions hypna-
gogiques, the vivid pictures (already so often mentioned here) which
with many persons rise before the " inward eye " at the moment of
falling asleep, or even in waking hours. These may closely resemble
postponed after-images ; or again, they may assume the more generalised
character of memory-images ; or (and this perhaps is the commonest
case) they may show combinations as novel and fantastic as any which
deliberate imagination could summon up. A good example of this
transition from afterimages to memory-images is afforded by the
following careful account, which I owe to the kindness of Dr. Th.
Flournoy, Professor of Philosophy in the University of Geneva :
M. 43. August, 1892.
Although not habitually subject to hypnagogic hallucinations, I have
experienced some ten or twelve, of the visual type, and concerned with
objects which had engaged my prolonged attention during the day.
In 1875, after my first day of anatomical dissection, I had the hallucina
tion of an aponeurosis, spread out widely. In 1879, after a long afternoon
spent at chess, the vision of a chessboard came to me before I went to sleep.
454 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Several times in 1878, after a day of microscopical work, the image of a
preparation came before me as a hypnagogic hallucination. These three
cases struck me forcibly, because at that date I had never heard any mention
of such phenomena. Since then I have had a few more experiences, under
the following conditions :—
(1) When after a long interval I occupy myself earnestly with some
given subject I see that evening a corresponding hypnagogic hallucination ;
—as of chessboard, geometrical figures, microscopical preparation ;—which
does not repeat itself if I continue to attend to the same matter on subsequent
days. (2) But, on the other hand, I sometimes see in the daytime, two or
three days later, a very distinct image of the object in question. This image
does not amount to a hallucination ;—it is not externalised, nor is it as vivid
as a perception ;—but, as I am a very bad visualiser, this vivid and precise
image is broadly distinguished from my habitual images, which are weak,
fragmentary, and indistinct. (3) Neither the hypnagogic image nor the
diurnal image are exact reproductions of the given object at a given
moment. They are typical images of aponeurosis or chessboard—not re
productions of some specific aspect which has strongly impressed me. Yet
they are concrete and precise.
I regard these hypnagogic images, and all memory-images, however
recent and intense, as radically different from the "after-images" of the eye.
These last have a quality sui rjeneris, a "sensational co-efficient" which
makes them seem to me to exist outside me, if I see them with open eyes ;
or to belong to my eye, as though stuck inside my eyelid, if I see them with
eyes closed. All other images seem to me to be seen with the mind's eye. I
class after-images with external perceptions ; all other images, whether as
vivid as my hypnagogic hallucinations or as faint as the ordinary visual furni
ture of my mind, I place in a quite different category.
In this case two points, on which I have already dwelt, come clearly
out :—namely, (1) the resurgence of a decadent image with something
like its original brilliancy ; (2) the process of generalisation which this
image has subliminally undergone. There are other well-known
instances of the same kind : Newton and the spectrum ; Baillarger and
the gauze which he had been using in anatomical preparations ; Pouchet
and the microscopical objects.1 In all these cases the resurgent images
appear to have been of a generalised type,—but generalised, so to say,
diagrammatically, not blurred or uncertain, but as one would prepare
them for a demonstration.2 For this reason it is certainly better not to
i See W. James's Principles of Psychology, Vol. II., p. 66, &c. ; Binet's La
Psychologic du Raisonnement, p. 48, &c
2 It is probable that something of the same kind takes place in hypnotic hallucin
ation3, where, say, a dog seen by suggestion is not necessarily any special remembered
dog. On the other hand if the order is to see some special object, it will be seen more
accuiately than it is remembered ;—as is curiously illustrated by the frequent dis
satisfaction of a female subject when told to see her own portrait on a blank card.
The idealised memory-picture, which modifies even her perception of her own image
in the looking-glass, is ruthlessly displaced by the subliminal fidelity to truth. " J'ai
bien des taches de rousseur," said a subject of Binet's, " mais je n'en ai pas tant que ca."
The Subliminal Consciousness. 455
class them as " after-images," reserving that term for cases of purely
physiological reproduction of external images. And in fact we find
that these hallucinations hypnagogiques depart further and further
from mere reproductions of objects seen. They assume all kinds of
grotesque forms, and show remarkable inventiveness in producing
hundreds of faces which the percipient has never seen before.
Similarly the patterns seen by Sir John Herschell in waking life
(Proceedings, Vol.VIII., p. 347), were neither after-images nor memory-
images. They were of the same general type as illusions hypnagogiques,
although so far surpassing (so to say) in initial energy these half-asleep
pictures that they forced themselves upwards through the waking
thoughts of one of the most alert of recorded minds.
We may indeed say more generally that whenever a perception
sinks ever so little below the threshold, and reappears, it is liable to
reappear in a generalised or symbolic form. A little anecdote of M.
Binet's (PsychoJogie du Haisonneinent, p. 12) may serve to illustrate
how very slight a dip into the subliminal is enough to metamorphose
a very commonplace perception. A friend of M. Binet's, Dr. A., was
walking along a Paris street, his mind full of an examination in botany
which he was about to undergo. Suddenly he noticed on the glass
door of a restaurant the words verbascum thapsus. Astonished at
this inscription, he turned back and read the real word—bouillon.
Now the popular French name for the plant verbascum or mullein is
" bouillon blanc." The inscription had, then, been first observed (in my
phraseology) by the subliminal and not by the supraliminal self, and in
its short plunge had become infected, so to say, with that incoherent or
accidental association which is the basis of a "play upon words."
Exactly the same process, of course, is frequently observable in
dreams.
VIII.—But I need not further multiply instances. Enough has been
said to show that in ordinary life, and under conditions falling far short
of definite hallucination, there is a storehouse of imagery just below the
threshold of consciousness, from which pictures rise on slight provoca
tion into the field of vision of the inward eye. What we need is to
systematise such insurgences ; to hit upon some empirical process which
will enable us to get at subliminal pictures whenever we will. And we
want not only to summon them up, but to keep them steady ;—to
externalise them as far as we can, that we may study them at our
leisure.
Let us look round, then, for any mode in which mental imagery has
been observed to attain to externalisation. And here I speak only of
visual externalisation ; not of the motor externalisation observed by
Fere' and others, when exciting inward ideas are accompanied by a
more forcible grip of the dynamometer.
45G Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
It is probable that many imperfect externalisations have passed
unnoticed, since this whole group of subjects has but recently received
attention. Thus, for instance, we are all aware of a certain forward
direction of our inward images in the act of attention. And since Mr.
Galton's well-known work we have become familiar with "number-forms "
and other visual schemata of thought, which tend to shape themselves
in many minds. These number-forms involve a complex internalvisualisa
tion, the mind's eye following their apparently fixed lines and angles ;
but I do not remember to have heard till now of their being external
ised by the subject. Professor Flournoy, however, has recently
described the case of M. Yowanovitch, an intelligent student at
Geneva.'
M. 44.
"M. Y. is an excellent visual, of the geometrical rather than the
picturesque type. He has no trace of coloured audition ; but on the other
hand possesses well denned and localised visual schemata for the numerals,
the days of the week, the months, &c. His number-form, composed of
parallel lines representing the hundreds, occupies the right half of the space
in front of him. In the left half floats his diagram of the week in the form
of a horizontal rectangular figure divided into seven bands, something like a
leaf of ruled paper, floating in the air about a metre from him, opposite his
left thigh. Still more to the left, and at the height of his head, is situated
his year-form, an ellipse of small eccentricity presented in a nearly vertical
plane. Whenever M. Y. thinks of a date of the year, of a day past or
future of the current week, or of a number, he perceives it in its proper place
on the corresponding schema. I have often had occasion to make him write
down rapidly a series of figures at random ; now these figures do not flow
of themselves from his pen ; nor are they preceded in him by their auditory,
motor, or graphic image ; but he is obliged, in order to write them, to choose
them on his number-form as on a picture placed in front of him. For this
purpose, he does not look straight at the page over which his pen is travel-
ling, but looks to the side and above the paper in the direction of the internal
diagram, which is the central object of his attention. He follows what he is
writing only with an indirect vision, like a hurried copyist who lets his hand
work of itself and will not lose sight of the page which he has to copy."
It will be observed that this case presents a curious analogy wTith
the "arithmetical prodigies" on whom I dwelt in Proceedings, XVII.
With some of them there was a kind of mental blackboard on which
the figures which were to be added up remained visible as long as
needed. But in their case the subliminal self supplied also the calcu
lating facility ; in M. Y.'s case it seems only to have stereotyped the
visual framework for common mental operations.
IX.—We take one step further in the direction both of the definite
i Archivet da Sciences Physiques el Naturcllcs, Vol. XXVIII., No. 10, October
loth, 1892, pp. 326-7. Geneva.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 45T
character and of the potential externalisation of these subliminal
quasi-percepts when we pass—by gradual transitions—from number-
forms to audition colorfa. A number-form is an association of an image
with an idea,—presumably as entirely a result of post-natal experience
as is my association of my friend's face with his name. And so also,
indeed audition coloree,—the perception of a definite " imaginary " or
" subjective " colour in association with each definite actual sound,—
may in some slighter cases be due to post-natal (mainly infantile)
experience working upon an innate predisposition. But when the
symesthesiie of which sound-seeing is only the most conspicuous example
are found in fuller development ;—when gradated, peremptory, inexplic
able associations connect sensations of light and colour with sensations,
of temperature, smell, taste, muscular resistance, kc, kc. ;—for M.
Gruber finds that these links exist in yet unexplored variety ;—then
it becomes probable that we are dealing, not with the casual asso
ciations of childish experience, but with some reflection or irradiation
of specialised sensations which must depend on the connate structure
of the brain itself.' And the degree of precision shown in these
entencephalic reflexes,—if I may so term them,— seems to exceed the
precision attainable by the voluntary attention of the supraliminal self.
I must here confine myself to an allusion to one striking case, com
bining both the subliminal intelligence and the visual externalisation,
which was described by Professor Gruber, of the University of Jassy,,
Roumania, at the recent International Congress of Experimental
Psychology in London, August, 1892. In one self-observer of excep
tional endowment, M. Gruber finds that the "chromatisms," as he calls
them,—the patches of colour accompanying the audition of particular
words,—follow certain definite rules as to size and shape, depending
partly on the phonetic, and partly on the intellectual, significance of
the word which the subject heard. This curious fact (whose details
I must not here give) would obviously have remained unprovable had
there been no possibility of objective measurement. But this possibility
fortunately exists.
"My subject," says M. Gruber, "has the power of externalising his
chromatisuts ; he projects them, for instance, upon the opposite wall, at no.
matter what distance. I chose a distance of three metres, which is that at
which his vision is most distinct. I then made a circle of white paper which
I supposed to be of the same size as his chromatism of the number dol (two),
and bordered it with bright scarlet. He projected his chromatism into this
' This view is consistent with the results of an Enqulte tur faudition colorie-
recently conducted by Professor Klournoy, from which it appears that of 213 persons
presenting these associations only 48 could assign the date of their origin ; and is.
supported by a case described in the Revue de VHypnotitmc, December, 1892, p. 185,
where a man who had long exhibited a limited form of audition coloree developed
gustation eoloric in addition when in a low state of health.
458 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
circle. But the circle was, in fact, smaller than his chromatic circle, and a
ring of orange was made by the superposition of the subjective yellow of his
•chromatism upon the objective scarlet. I enlarged the circle. This time he
saw a white ring between the objective frame of scarlet and the subjective
yellow. At last we got the edges of the chromatism to touch precisely the
edges of the white circle. We had found the exact size of the chromatism
and could now measure it to a millimetre."
The foregoing passage will show how clearly denned these ent«n-
cephalic percepts may be. It is sometimes possible also to show that they
represent (as I should expect them to represent) a memory more com
plete and a perception more exact than the supraliminal self can
command. Thus, Mr. Galton had already mentioned a case where a
lady used her chromatisms to correct her spelling—the chromatism
showing, say, whether or not there were two o's in agreeable, and
correcting her supraliminal picture of the word by the symbolic coloured
equivalent of each successive letter which thus rose from a memory
deeper in her being. At the recent Congress of Experimental
Psychology, Mr. Galton mentioned Lepsius the Orientalist as having
been similarly guided in philological investigation. And one of M.
Gruber's subjects, a professional singer, when taught to analyse his own
chromatisms, found that they corrected his ear in singing ; so that if he
sang a false note without detecting it by ear the accompanying patch
of colour showed him his mistake.'
X.—I have cited these instances of quasi-externalisation of sub-
liminally initiated images in order to show that w*e might have
gradually reached the mode of experiment on which I am about to dwell
at length, namely " crystal-vision "—or " speculation " in a narrow
primary sense—by an unexceptionable and orthodox road. As a matter
of fact I personally was led to it by a kind of short cut, permissible
enough, I think, when one is groping about for some empirical process
which may help one over a purely experimental difficulty to a result
which ought logically to be possible. The object was to get our sub
liminal mental pictures externalised for supraliminal study ; in other
words, to induce harmless and manageable hallucinations. But little
acquaintance with the history of superstition was enough to suggest
that in many ages and countries some form of crystallomancy, or
specular gazing, had been practised as a main method of divination.
1 This curious case may be compared with that of Pedrono, cited by Dr. Krohn,
in his useful historical sketch of " Pseudo-Chromesthesia," American Journal of
Psticholotii/, Vol. V., Part I., p. 25 : "These colour impressions he describes as sudden
and spontaneous. The sounds are translated into colour before he can stop to think
whether the voice is high or low." In other experiments it has been found that the
colour was seen before the meaning of the word which determined the colour was con
sciously observed.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 459
•Of this fact, Miss X has set forth abundant evidence in her paper,
." On Recent Experiments in Crystal-Vision," in Proceedings, Vol. V.,
p. 48G.
I will add an example from Icelandic Saga, as represented by
'William Morris, in his Story of Sigurd the Volsung. Sigurd consults
the sage Gripir as to the fates to be.
Nought answered the ancient wise-one, and not a whit had he stirred
Since the clash of Sigurd's raiment in his mountain hall he heard ;
But the ball that imaged the earth was set in his hand grown old ;
And belike it was to his vision, as the wide-world's ocean rolled,
And the forests waved with the wind, and the corn was gay with the lark,
And the gold in its nether places grew up in the dusk and the dark,
And its children built and departed, and its King-folk conquered and went,
As over the crystal image his all-wise face was bent :
For all his desire was dead ; and he lived as a God shall live,
'Who the prayers of the world hath forgotten, and to whom no hand may give.
It is, then, this " crystal-vision," or steady gaze into any speculum
or clear depth, which I recommend as an empirical method of inducing
harmless and easily observable hallucinations. Here, as in the parallel
case of the motor phenomena of automatic script, we must begin by
assuring ourselves that we are not dealing with a mere exaggeration
of vague subjective sensations. As with automatic writing, so here,
we can soon prove this by experiments on known hypnotised subjects.
It will be found that a subject who is told when asleep that he will
.see a given scene, and who is then awakened and told to look in a glass
of water or a crystal, will see the suggested scene depicted in action,
while his waking self remains quite ignorant of its purport. Such
experiments are obviously a mere development of the ordinary
command to see a photographic picture on a blank card, &c. But at
the same time they lead on directly to my cases of crystal-vision in the
normal state. It seems useful, therefore, to quote some notes of experi
ments made by me with two of the subjects with whom the late Edmund
Gurney and Mrs. Sidgwick have worked so long.
M. 45.
Experiments made at Brighton, March 9th, 26th, 27th, 28th, 1891.
Extract from account written out after the experiments from notes made
at the time, with some comments added later.
March 9th. Present, G. A. Smith and the two subjects, P. and T.
1. I began with repeating the experiment already frequently made with
these and other subjects, viz., suggesting to the hypnotised P. that he would
see a given picture on a card when awakened. [G. A. S. hypnotised and
awoke the subjects throughout.] I told P. that on awaking he would be
shown a card with a picture of a baby on it. I said the one word " baby "
without detail in order to see how his mind developed the idea. He was
shown a blank card and saw, not a veritable baby, but a child of six.
4G0 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
' 2. Next time I suggested a hippopotamus—an animal which P. had never
seen in the flesh. On being awakened he saw on the card what he called a
rhinoceros. He complained that it was rather indistinct ; he was not sure
whether it had horns or tusks. There is a certain interest in this as indica
ting that the hallucination was founded upon a mental picture suggested by
my words, rather than on the words themselves. One might have supposed
that, since my whole suggestion consisted of the word hippopotamus, the
awakened subject, however vaguely he saw the beast, would have known
that it was meant for a hippopotamus. But the picture, vague as it was,
seemed to be more communicable from the hypnotic to the supraliminal self
than the word which had originally generated it. A picture was what had
been ordered, and a picture came.
3. I repeated this form of experiment once more, telling P. that he would
see a picture of T. ; which he saw clearly.
4. I next determined to try the effect of a glass of water, arranged as a
speculum, in giving additional vividness to these post-hypnotic pictures. I
suggested to each young man separately a different scene, and then set them
to gaze into the same glass of water, behind which I placed a dark back
ground. T. had once looked into ink : but beyond this neither of them
knew anything of crystal-gazing, and they were told that they were to see an
optical illusion of my invention. They naturally assumed that they would
both equally see whatever there was to be seen.
I told P. (hypnotised) that the electric light on the Eastbourne Parade
had gone out on the previous evening, but had been relighted in a few
minutes.
I told T. (hypnotised) that at Barnum's Circus there was a race of ponies
with monkeys on their backs.
P., though generally the better seer of hallucinatory pictures, began
(when awakened and set before the glass of water) by saying that all was
quite black.
T. said : " Look, there's something going round and round in the
water ! "
P. : " It's your fancy ; it's all dark."
T. : " No, it's horses—they're horses going round and round—they've
got something small on their backs, not so big as those girls who jump
through hoops. It's like a circus."
Suddenly P. looked sharply up at me as though to see what I was doing.
"What have you done with the light ? " he said ; " you've made a great ball
of light in the glass, like a round thing with a light in the middle of it. " He
did not see the meaning of this ; but it appeared that he had begun with
simply a vision of darkness, and then had seen the electric light rekindled.
This was not the way in which I had conceived my picture—(I had thought
of the look of the long Parade and a line of lamps going out)—but it gave
the essential point.
It will bo observed that in this experiment, as in that of the hippopota
mus, and in most of those that follow, neither percipient recognised the full
meaning of the picture seen. The undistinguished '' small things " in T. 's
picture were, of course, the monkeys of my story. I shall recount later on
some attempts to make similar obscure details clear by magnification. Both
The Subliminal Consciousness. 461
« true and a pretended or suggested magnifying-glass should be tried with
many subjects under such conditions as these.
5. I next told P. (hypnotised) the story of Robinson Crusoe finding the
footprint and fearing savages.
I told T. that Moses Primrose took a cow to the fair and returned with
a gross of green spectacles, to the derision of his family.
Awakened and set before the glass of water, P. at once exclaimed :
" Why, there's Buffalo Bill ! He's dressed in feathers, and skins round him ;
almost like a savage. He's walking about in a waste place." T. : "Is ho
leading a cow along ?" P. : " No, no, he's all alone." T. : " That's a cow,
not Buffalo Bill." P. : "I can see something else coming from another
part,—it's a blackie." T. : "No, it's a sack, a sack on his back." P. :
" Look at them now, how they're arguing ! Buffalo Bill and his black man."
T. : "J can see them arguing now—he's got into a house—there's four of
them." P. : "No, no, only two." T. : " No, four,—look at them roaring ! "
(i.e., with laughter). P. : "No, they're behind some trees." T. : "They're
crying now."
Observe that in P.'s case the footmurk, which was the point on which I
had chiefly dwelt, was not observed ; although I suspect, from P.'s insistence
on the long pacing about of his Buffalo Bill, that the footmark was in some
sense intended to form part of the picture, although too small to be noticed
by an observer not aware of its importance. P. had read Itobinsmt Crusoe ;
but Buffalo Bill was plainly fresher in his memory.
T. saw no meaning in his story whatever. He did not know what was in
the sack—(a detail of his own adding, as I had not clearly conceived how
the spectacles were brought home)—and he saw no reason for the laughter
or weeping. The crging was added from his hypnotic self's own conception
of the probable effect of such a bargain upon the family, after their first
amusement. T. had never read the Vicar of Wakefield.
6. Observing the attempts made by the two seers to harmonise these
divergent stories, I chose two scenes which had a certain similarity, to see
whether either seer would be able to persuade the other to accept his version
of what was going on.
I told P. briefly that Banquo's ghost had appeared to Macbeth, his
murderer, as he sat with warriors and nobles round him at a feast.
I told T. (what he already knew to have happened) that at the North
Kilkenny election Mr. Parnell, while addressing the crowd, received a bag
of lime in his face from a political opponent. Thus each scene had its
central and commanding figure ; I wished to see if the two could be
combined.
P. : "I see two or three men standing—some sitting—one in a chair
on a raised place, like where the head man sits. That's the Mayor, I sup
pose." [P. is more familiar with municipal government than with military
or Imperial rule.]
T. : " Why, there are a whole lot of men—a town—a lot of cars—not
like our carriages."
P. (with a loud whistle): " Oh, here he comes, the bogey -man!'
(apparently quoting a song).
2 I
462 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
T. : "There he is standing up in the middle of them;—I've seen the
man at Brighton."
P. : " Look at that chap in the corner ! isn't he frightened of him ? The
Mayor's quite upset."
T. : "I know the man well enough ; he has a beard—about my height.
I've seen him walk up and down the front (the Parade) with two dogs after
him."
P. : " He's a g)wst ! "
T. : "He's no ghost, I say ; he's talking to them ; look at that stuff all
gone into his face ; now three or four men are up talking ; they've got
some sticks—there's a row."
P. (imitating conventional ghostly action): "Look at him! They all
stick their swords through him—it doesn't hurt him ; he's a ghost ! "
T. : "Nonsense ; how can he be a ghost? I tell you I've spoken to him
in the [telegraph] office ; he's a man anyone would remember—a stand-ofF
man. He's all white now ; they're all running." " Was his name Parnell ? "
I asked. "Yes, yes," said T., " Parnell, of course." Here also, it will be
observed, as in the case of the hippopotamus, it was the picture framed by
the percipient's subliminal self, not the mere name as uttered by me, which
was transmitted to his supraliminal consciousness.
These scenes excited the seers ; and there was some absurdity in their
endeavours to imitate, and to conciliate, the attitudes of hovering ghost and
impassioned orator.
7. March 26th, 1891. Magnification.
I told T. (hypnotised) that he would see in the crystal (a real one) a play
bill of Jael; Sheppard, which had recently been acted in Brighton, the
large print distinct, but not the small print. Awakened, he saw a girl in
man's clothes—something like knickerbockers—could make out JCK T H.
On looking through a (real) magnifying-glass he easily read JACK SHEP
PARD, THEATRE ROYAL, and recognised that the knickerbockers were
jack-boots. He said that the letters persisted, but were clearer when the
magnifier was applied to the crystal. The picture seen was remembered
from an actual poster.
8. Forgotten Memories.—T. was told (same conditions) that he would see
scenes of his past life. He was greatly interested by seeing a number of old
schoolfellows sitting in his old school ; some whom he could not identity ;
some of whom he had scarcely thought since he left school. On being re-
hypnotised he did not remember seeing these pictures— only remembered
my talking to him about his boyhood. We could not therefore get the
hypnotic self to identify the unknown boys.
9. March 27th. Test of disappearance from waking memory of words
spoken to hypnotised subject. —I offered each subject £10 if he could explain
to me the next picture which he saw. It was plainly necessary to choose
some scenes whose meaning they could not yuess, if my description, given
to them when hypnotised, was forgotten on awaking. I told P. of the
Finding of Brynhild, and T. of the Niblungs' Need. Each saw his picture
well, (Greyfell, the flickering flame-wall, the Sleepful Thorn, &c.,) but was
completely puzzled as to its meaning.
The Subliminal Consciousness, 463
10. March 28th. Magnification.—I tokl T. (hypnotised) that when
awakened he would see a telegraph form (he is a telegraphist) in a glass of
water ; that he would not bo able to make out the words, but only to count
them ; then with a magnifier would make them out. Awakened, he saw a
telegraph form so bent that he could only see a fragment of a message, con
taining seven words which he could not read. Looking in the glass he made
out " Met—B'ton (abbreviation used for Brighton) Hotel—come." We
cannot say whether a coherent message in any sense underlay this frag
mentary attempt at communication.
11. I now resolved to supply the message myself (same conditions), and
told him that he would be able to see the lengths of the words with the naked
eye, and to read them with the magnifier. The telegram was to be [To]
" Myers, Cambridge—Oxford won by half a length. Harris." With the
naked eye he could see that there were only two words in the address, tht
second rather long. With the magnifier he gradually picked out letters
here and there—saw the capital letters right, partly saw and partly guessed
my name—could not make out the message. Experiments such as this
show, I think, that there is some appropriateness in speaking of messayes
or communications from one to another stratum of the Self. Judging from
the analogy of many other post-hypnotic suggestions with the same subject,
we can hardly doubt that the whole of this simple telegram was remembered
by the hypnotic self, and could have been reproduced in obedience to a direct
order. But the order was to reproduce it with a certain degree of obscurity ;
and that obscurity turned out to be slightly greater than the magnifying-glass
(however acting) could overcome. The suggestion was thus slightly too com
plex ; but, although never fully delivered, the "inter-state " or " methectic "
message—call it as you will, but let us have some name for it—was ready
made up, and waiting to be transmitted from the hypnotic to the supra
liminal self.
12. The experiments thus far described, although presenting some novel
points, have been such as any observer with good hypnotic subjects at his
disposal will probably he able to repeat. Those to which I now come involve
the rarer phenomenon of thought-transference, which cannot be guaranteed,
in the case of any hypnotic subject, although it would doubtless be oftener
found if it were oftener looked for. The evidence for Mr. G. A. Smith's
"power of transmitting ideas, without the use of ordinary means, to the minds
of these and other subjects has been so often discussed in these Proceedings
that I need here only remark that in all these experiments a close watch
was kept by Dr. Dill or myself, or both of us, to guard against indications
(which, of course, may be quite involuntarily given), while at the same time
the picture to be discerned in the crystal involved conceptions more com
plicated than a mere card-name or number. I omit the first of these ex
periments, which was successful, but during which I left the room to speak
to Dr. J. Gordon Dill, a physician who had previously assisted in similar
experiments, and who kindly consented to help mo in those, in which it is
naturally desirable to have two observers. In each case Dr. Dill or 1 wrote
down the desired picture carefully on a piece of paper out of sight of the
subject and showed it to Mr. G. A. Smith, while the subject was entranced
(in the last two experiments after he was awakened). Mr. G. A. Smith then,
2 i 2
Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
stood at some distance from the percipient, and out of his sight, while the
percipient fixed his eyes on the glass of water, and made remarks to which
(unless otherwise stated) no one replied. Dr. Dill watched Mr. Smith, and I
watched the percipient, or vice rersa. Such precautions imply no distrust of
cither agent or percipient, hut should he taken as a matter of course in all
experiments of this kind. Were I myself acting as agent I should prefer to
he watched, since no one can be absolutely certain as to what sounds or
movements he may unconsciously make. If it is once for all assumed that
the human organism, when used in experiments which do not in themselves
present any means of eliminating the " personal equation," needs some other
eye to guard against possible idiosyncrasies which may confuse the experi
ments, then such supervision may be submitted to with no more sense of
discredit than the astronomer feels when his individual observations are
accepted not as absolute truth, but as data to be corrected in a special recog
nised way. I wrote down "Two cats fighting," and showed the paper care
fully to Dr. Dill and Mr. Smith —whom I will call D. and S. T. (in waking
state) at once saw "two cats—both with their backs up—fighting, one black
and striped, the other with patches of white." "Where are the cats?"
"On a wall." S. had mentally reproduced a picture of two cats fighting,
done in whitewash on a wall—so that his cats were both white. During
this experiment D. left the room for a few minutes : I watched T., whose
eyes, as I believe, never left the glass of water.
13. Next time both subjects (hypnotised and awakened as usual) were to
see in the same water-glass the same theme, written down by D. and shown to
S. and myself : " Boat putting off from beach." P. saw nothing. T. saw "A
room cleared for dancing, the gas-branches wreathed with flowers." This
appeared to be a deferred picture belonging to a previous series. He had
been told, in an experiment which I have omitted, to see four scenes of his
past life, at different ages. He had seen three, and this scene was probably
enough the fourth, which was to be typical of his adolescence. At any rate,
he was simply hypnotised again, and again awakened (D. and I watching
throughout). On reawaking he said : "There are boats—several steamers and
two boats rowing in front, like a picture of a boat-race in the Graphic."
This was an approximation to the desired picture.
14. In the next experiment (same conditions) the theme, written down by
me, which S. was mentally to suggest, was " acrobats swinging from trapeze."
Neither P. nor T. saw anything at first. They were rehypnotised and re
awakened. P. sees a man. T. sees nothing. P. : "He has got something round
on his hand like a sailor with a life-buoy, and a rope hanging from his hand."
T. : " I imagine that I see the same thing." P. : "I believe he's standing on a
vessel—on the deck of a boat—now he's still there but the vessel's gone—you
can only see his feet and nothing beneath him." T. : "He looks to me like
a half-photograph." T. then had to leave. We told P. to put himself into
the man's attitude. The pose assumed was just that of a man who has lifted
himself half over his trapeze, the rope which P. saw being across his body,
just about where the trapeze's seat (of rope or wood) would come. Such a
picture would also correspond to T.'s "half [length] photograph."
15. Same conditions. I chose the subject, " a house on fire." This time
both D. and I watched P and S., who stood behind P. (of course not in con
The Subliminal Consciousness. 4G5
tact), looking at the Limp, and imagining (as he afterwards told us) a great
square of flame. P. : "I see something like a bright light ; there's a ladder
up at the window—a house on fire—no doubt about it."
16. Same conditions. Subject written down by D. : "Mr. Gladstone." P. :
" I think I see something like a man—a man's head—comes and goes in a
flash. I know, it's Gladstone, a photograph—head and shoulders." Here I
had to leave, but Dr. Dill continued the experiments. I now quote his
account. Mrs. G. A. Smith was now present, but was not informed of the
scene.
17. [Same conditions.] "Jack the Ripper committing a murder."
[Subject written down by D.] P. : " I can see something now—it's a man—
rather faint. Very awful-looking man. Nothing like Gladstone. Repulsive
and dirty looking. Has something in his hand—it's a knife. Good gracious !
what a terrible looking man—in rags—with his hat coming over his eyes—
looks like a murderer." D. : " Is anyone with him?" P. : "No, he's
alone." Presently: "Yes, he is talking to someone—another man. No,
it's a woman." [A few more details are seen and P. recognises the murderer.]
18. Same conditions. " St. Georgeaud the Dragon." P. : " Oh I can see
what that is—it's a picture of St. George and the Dragon. The usual picture.
Not moving, simply a picture."
19. Here P., as D. tells mo in a letter, became anxious to go ofl to catch
a train, a preoccupation which generally interfered with success. On this
and the next occasion S. was not shown the theme until after P. had been
awakened. [He was hypnotised, as already stated, between each experiment.]
Subject: "A pantomime—clown and policeman on stage. P. . 'I see
something like a lion, I think. Can't tell what it is till it comes closer. Quite
gone. Saw something like a man in a white hat—gone—looks like one
of the circus clowns—very smudgy, with a mist in front of it." Then
about 15 minutes during which he saw nothing. Then "The clown again !
but I lose sight of him when he moves."
20. Subject : " A photograph of Mr. Myers." [This time S. opened and
read the paper designating the desired picture downstairs, and did not enter
the room. P. saw the beach—boats—nothing.]
XI.—I have thought it worth while to record these experiments at
some length, because they seem to me to illustrate the gradual transition
between the common forms of post-hypnotic hallucination, which,
however surprising at first, are now undisputed, and the crystal-vision
which I am anxious to present as no " occult practice " or superstitious
fancy, but as the empirical development of processes more familiar but
quite equally empirical.
But, indeed, as with automatic script, so here also we shall soon
find that hypnotic experiments of this kind are not necessary in
order to convince us that the crystal-pictures are, in their own
sense, a reality. Quite apart from the veridicalMty of some of
them ;—the intrinsic evidence which they contain of knowledge
outside the experimenter's ordinary knowledge ;—they occur to a greater
or less extent with so many persons of sanity and probity that we can
43G Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
no more doubt their existence than we can doubt the existence of the
allied phenomena of hypnagogic hallucinations or coloured audition,
already discussed.
The feature in the above experiments for which corroborative paral
lels are most needed is, of course, the telepathic transference of the
pictures directly from one mind to another. On this point (with which
Mrs. Sidgwick and Miss Johnson are dealing in this part of the Pro-
ceedinyx) I may refer my reader to two papers by Dr. Gibotteau (a
French physician, formerly interne at a Paris hospital, and now prac
tising at Biarritz,) published in the Annates de% Sciences Psychiqnes for
October and December, 1892. The whole paper should be studied, but
I can here quote only a few experiments (made in 1888) which resemble,
and in some ways surpass in interest, those which I have just detailed.
1. I begin with the telepathic transference of a picture resembling the
transferred picture of the electric light at Eastbourne, mentioned above. But
in Dr. Gibotteau's case the agent was some half-mile or so distant from the
percipient, who was Dr. Gibotteau himself. This " agent " was a woman
employed in the creche of the hospital to which Dr. Gibotteau was attached,
but herself in good health and of tall and vigorous build ;— ,in type de
cuisinitre. (She has since died of consumption.) She was remarkable as
being at once herself extremely suggestible,—so that, for instance, Drs. Gibot
teau and Houeix produced on her a blister by suggestion in twenty-four
hours,—and also extremely capable of conveying suggestions toothers. Dr.
Gibotteau, although not himself easily thus influenced, received from her
many motor and emotional and a few visual suggestions. It is with one of
these last that we have now to deal.
" I am a sound sleeper, and I never remember having awoke spon
taneously in the middle of my sleep. But one night, about two or three
o'clock, I was suddenly aroused. Before I opened my eyes I thought, ' This
is some trick of B.'s ! What is she meaning to make me see ?' I then
looked at the wall in front of me, and saw a round, luminous tract, and in
the middle a brilliant object, of the size of a melon, which I gazed at for
siveral seconds, being fully awake before it disappeared. I could not dis
tinguish any clear shape, or any detail ; but the object was rounded, and
there seemed to be parts less luminous than the rest. I fancied that she had
meant to show me a skull, but I could not recognise one. That part of the
wall was illuminated as it would have been by a powerful lamp. The room
was not absolutely dark, since there were no shutters and the window cur
tains were not drawn. But no light seemed to be diffused by this bright
object outside that area on the wall of which it occupied the centre. That
was all. I waited for a moment and saw nothing else ; then I fell sound
asleap again. Next day I mat Birthe at the hospital, and I questioned her
with due precaution. She had endeavoured to make me see dogs round my
bed ; then men quarrelling, and finally a lantern. The two first attempts
had failed ; the third had succeeded perfectly."
2. Equally interesting, in the case of an agent so often successful as Dr.
Gibotteau's paper shows Berthe to have been, are the cases of more or less
The Subliminal Consciousness. 4G7
- abortive hallucination apparently due to her effort from a distance. "One
summer evening," says Dr. Gibotteau, "at about 8 p.m., I was expecting
Berthe at my lodgings. I stood on the balcony, looking into the street.
For some minutes past I had strongly felt her presence, and I supposed that
she was probably lingering somewhere near at hand. Then I saw, passing
across the wall behind me, .1 white reflection [im reflet blanc—what another
informant has called "a bright shadow "]. The reflection from the sun on a
window which is being moved would imitate what I saw ; but there was neither
sun, nor moon, nor lighted lamps, for it was still daylight. I strongly felt
Berthe's influence. Almost immediately I thought that I heard in the room
behind me one or two sharp little cries, like those of a mouse. Berthe
-arrived almost at once ; and, questioned with due precaution, told me that
she had just attempted to show herself to me on the balcony, and then to
make me hear cries like those of her baby, a child a few months old."
3. Dr. Gibotteau, I need not say, does not depend upon this coincidence
as a proof of Berthe's powers ; but assuming those powers as sufficiently
proved by the many more definite successes of which Dr. G. speaks, it is
interesting to trace the parallelism between the .stages of decreasing vivid
ness in experimental and in spontaneous hallucinations. The following
instance of actual failure of an intended hallucination—reduced to mere
emotional disturbance without visual image—will remind the reader of
various cases of vague fear and depression felt at the time of a friend's
death, with no sensory phantasm. "One night," says Dr. Gibotteau, "I
returned home at midnight. On the landing, as I turned the handle of the
door, I said to myself, ' What a bore ! Here is some other trick of Berthe's.
She is going to make me see something horrible in the passage ;—it's very
disagreeable ! ' In a nervous state I opened the door with my eyes shut,
and seized a match. In a few minutes I was in bed ; blew out the light,
and put my head under the bedclothes, like a child. Next day Berthe
asked me whether I had not seen in my passage or bedroom a skeleton which
had greatly frightened me. I need not say that a skeleton was the last
thing in the world likely to terrify me ;—and frankly I do not think that in
cold blood I am a greater coward than my neighbours."
4. There will be more to add as to the transference of emotional states
when we deal with motor messages. Meantime the last case of Berthe's
"agency" which I will now give is one where the intended transfer
absolutely failed ; but with a concomitant result curiously illustrating the
views as to the subliminal activity involved in such transference on which I
have already insisted.
"One day," says Dr. Gibotteau, "when we wereawaiting Berthe's arrival,
for some experiments, she came in in a state of terror. ' Oh, I have had
such a fright ! I will never do it again ! I am sure that you have seen
nothing.' And she told us that at the foot of the staircase she had endea
voured to transmit to me a hallucination,—to make me see a death's head.
' I tried, I tried, but you would not see anything. Then it came back
against me. I saw it in the staircase. Oh, what a fright it gave me ! ' The
impression made upon her had really been very strong. According to
Berthe's explanation : ' When one works very hard to make someone see a
figure and he keeps it off, the figure comes back against oneself, just as if
468 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
someone else had sent it to one.' I should interpret this incident as follows:
A hallucination transmitted to me is the result of a series of successive efforts,
each of which transmits itself in turn to the unconscious strata of my mind,
until their sum has attained the intensity necessary to cause the image to
emerge into the conscious stratum. At other times the threshold of con
sciousness is not reached. The force is transmitted, but it remains unutilised
in the unconscious strata. [In certain cases] the sensation accumulates in
the unconscious strata of the agent himself, which thus gradually become
overcharged, until the image emerges in the form of a spontaneous hallu
cination. The mechanism of some other spontaneous hallucinations, those of
the insane especially, is probably much the same ; depending upon the sub
conscious accumulation of a series of identical and successive images evoked
by voluntary reverie."
5. I will conclude these citations with a striking series of experiments in
which Dr. Gibotteau was himself the agent, the percipient being a head
nurse at his hospital ;—a nervous subject over whom he gradually gained
great power, without employing hypnotism. It will be seen that these
experiments form a close parallel to the Brighton series already given,
except that Dr. Gibotteau's subject was far more rapidly receptive, and
developed the transmitted pictures without the use of a speculum of any
kind.
"During the whole sitting Mme. It. remained seated on a sofa at about
a yard from where I sat on an armchair at right angles to her. A small
table stood before her. She at once half closed her eyes, and her look
became somewhat vacant, but there was no change in her voice, no subse
quent awakening, no interruption of memory, so that her state cannot be
said to have been one of sleep. I did not take her hand (which I had some
times previously done) at any point during these experiments. I began by
giving her hallucinations as to the objects on the table before her. I am
not myself a good visualiser ; but after looking at the real objects 1 shut my
eyes, called up a mental image of one of the objects, and modified it
according to my fancy. As the subject's eyes were closed, I think that for
her, as for me, it was the mental image rather than the real image of the
object which underwent change. Hallucination is therefore perhaps too
strong a word to apply to the results produced. It was only at the end of
the throe hours' sitting that Mme. R. ceased to be able to distinguish
between my suggested pictures and the realities round her. Up till then
she understood the true nature of the phantasmal pictures ; but nevertheless,
when they were of a terrible kind, she became alarmed and begged ine to
stop.
" A large inkstand with a spring was on the table. She saw it move first
to the right, then to the left, to the edge of the table ; move about irregularly ;
open briskly as though by pressure on the spring ; upset and spill the ink ;
then lastly it opened and a small snake came out of it.
" I then determined, mentally, to suppress the inkstand, and to see only
the table-cover. The success was immediate ; the inkstand disappeared from
Mme. R.'s view, and continued absent as long as I chose.
"In front of the fireplace there lay a large piece of brown packing-paper,
which kept the shape of the parcel which it had covered and left a hollow
The Subliminal Consciousness. 4G9
under it. This paper took to undulating and rising, and from underneath
it came a guinea-pig and several rabbits. I imagined one of these rabbits as
white ; then the fancy took me to add a few patches of colour. ' Ha,' said
she, 'a white rabbit !—no, it has a brown or yellow ear.' An enormous
serpent succeeded to the rabbit. First it was coiled up under the paper, then
it uncoiled itself and appeared in front of the table, to the terror of Mme.
R. I cannot remember whether I succeeded in making the serpent hiss, as
I tried to do.
" Then I attempted larger animals. Near the door of the room I made her
see a bay horse, then a white one, then a lion (which she guessed rather than
saw, for I imagined it very imperfectly), then a bear . . . which took my
place in the armchair. Sometimes I displaced myself in imagination, and I
saw the armchair with a great brown bear sitting in my place ; sometimes I
tried to transform myself into the animal, seeing its paws in the place of my
arms, &c These two methods are quite distinct ; the second—a direct trans
formation—seemed to me the easier of the two. I put successively in my
place a dog (very well seen), a horse (rearing where the armchair stood), and
a lion (which was still imperfectly evoked). Then I imagined the armchair
empty ; and Mme. R. cried : ' Where are you 1 you are no longer in the
armchair ; it frightens me.' I tried this illusion repeatedly, alternating it
with the animals ; and there was never any mistake. ' I do not see you
disappear suddenly : but in your place there is a kind of mist, which rapidly
shrinks, and when it is gone the armchair is empty.' I profited by this
hint ; and I found it more effective and less fatiguing to imagine in my place
a grey fog which dissolved from the circumference to the centre. I much
regret that I did not try to show myself in another part of the room, leaving
empty the armchair where I was really sitting. . . .
"At about midnight I put an end to the sitting, which had lasted nearly
three hours, and I accompanied my subject to her home. My influence over
her had not diminished, and all along the street she saw, as I chose, lamps
falling on her from the Ltmp-posts, heaps of stones which obliged her to quit
the footpath, houses tottering, windows opening, and mattresses or men
falling out of them. All these images were very fugitive. I passed rapidly
from one to another, but I always succeeded.
' ' I have never again succeeded in obtaining results so remarkable either
with Mme. R. (over whom I soon lost power) or with any other subject. I
must have transferred some four hundred or five hundred images, of which
very few failed. ... I need hardly say that I gave no opportunity of
guessing what I wished to be seen. Mme. R. had never, I believe, taken
part in any similar experiments • and in point of fact the very notion of
most of these came to me as I perceived that my first attempts succeeded.
I had no written notes or scheme of the sitting. It is unfortunate that I
was alone ; but I doubt whether I should have succeeded in the presence of
others. I am sure that the details have been faithfully preserved in my
memory. I will try and procure an independent account from Mme. R.
[Mme. R. had since remarried, and Dr. G. has lost sight of her.]
"I ought to add that next day I found myself extremely fatigued ; almost
as if I had passed several nights without sleep. No other sitting has ever
exhausted me to a like degree."
470 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
XII.—The subject of these singularly successful experiments,
although a sureeillante in the Parisian hospital where Dr. (xibotteau was
then interne, was herself decidedly hysterical. The young men, on the
other hand, with whom the Brighton experiments were made, are
strong and healthy ;—T., indeed, ranking as a formidable boxer. This
contrast suggests a point of controversy between M. Janet and myself
which has both theoretical and practical importance, and which
I am the more concerned to deal with as M. Janet has been the first
foreign savant to take up the study of these automatisms, sensory and
motor, to which attention was called by the late Edmund Ourney and
myself, and has performed experiments of great interest first with
automatic script and now with crystal-gazing. Those experiments
have amply confirmed the real existence and real importance of these
modes of subliminal manifestation, at a time when few persons are in
a position either to confirm or to contest them from any personal experi
ence. M. Janet has experimented solely with patients known to
be hysterical, and generally under conditions which allowed him full
and prolonged opportunities of observation and control. He hax
therefore made a very complete analysis of some very exceptional cases,
while I have surveyed a wider field in less detail. His results are not
inconsistent with my own, and have specially brought out the
existence of a subliminal memory more complete than the supralimin.il,
which is one of the points most essential to my own general argument.
But M. Janet regards all such automatisms as indications of a
" disintegration of personality " which is necessarily a morbid thing.
Any split, in his view, must be a weakening ; any part of memory or
perception or faculty which is separated oft' from the ordinary waking
consciousness must leave that consciousness by so much the poorer. In
support of this view, if I mistake not, he would urge that in all the cases
of automatism which he has himself investigated there has been a more
or less conspicuous tendency to hysteria. The automatism, he would add,
has sometimes disappeared with the hysteria. And to meet the obvious
rejoinder that his cases were all, or almost all, chosen by himself from
among patients already known to be hysterical, he would say that the
hysterical tendency is often latent and unnoticed, and that very likely
a more careful examination would have shown it to exist in the cases
claimed as healthy by Gurney and myself. And he would, I think,
further consider that there was a clear a priori probability in his view,
inasmuch as if you split up a machine meant to work as a whole, you
must inevitably weaken it. Automatism, he concludes, cannot exist in
quite normal persons ; it must in itself be a sign of abnormality, that is
to say, of actual or latent disease.
I certainly feel that had I merely read M. Janet's arguments with
out having any experience of my own by which to test them, I should
The Subliminal Consciousness. 471
regard them as extremely plausible. But I cannot ignore the fact that the
automatists of various kinds—automatic writers, crystal seers and the
like—whom I have myself actually known during the past twenty years
would now form a group of at least 200 persons, and that this group
.would, to the ordinary eye, be indistinguishable from the ordinary world.
I can hardly think that they have all—men and women alike—been
hysterical without my finding it out. I might indeed say with truth
that these informants have (apparently at least) been on the whole
above the average physically as well as mentally. But I lay no stress
on this, and I think that such superiority is fully explained by the fact
that I have, of course, suggested experiments and sought for informa
tion among my own friends, or other persons whom I believed to be sane
and trustworthy, and thus have not taken mankind at random. Thus,
if I wished, I might make a point, just opposite to M. Janet's, out of the
four cases which are here to be cited at length. One of these infor
mants, I might say, is a man of quite exceptionally sound physique and
good sense-organs. He it is who feels the most marked results from
the steady gaze—being speedily self-hypnotised. Two others are
thoroughly healthy and vigorous, and they are excellent crystal seers.
The fourth has occasional accesses of ill-health, and although she is an
excellent crystal seer when well, if she is at all ill her power leaves her
altogether.
But I do not myself hold that these automatisms are a sign of
health any more than of disease, or of intelligence any more than of
" misere psychologique." So far as we really know as yet, the power
seems a kind of physical accident, scattered at random, and indicating
nothing beyond its own existence. Quite possibly hysterical patients
may very often be automatists. Hysterical patients are very often
young women, but that does not prove that all young women are
hysterical.
But, indeed, this question links itself with a larger one, which has
been settled by experience far wider than either M. Janet's or mine. I
mean the question whether hypnotism is morbid ; that is to say
whether the capacity of being hypnotised is, in itself, a sign of any
kind of weakness, and especially of a hysterical tendency. My readers
know that this was the view of Charcot and the Salpetriere school ; and
that that view, even when most widely accepted, was regarded by
Edmund Gurney and myself with absolute distrust. It has now
practically collapsed ; the wide experience of the Nancy school having
proved afresh and conspicuously what had been abundantly well
known since Elliotson's day to practical students of hypnotism outside
hospitals, namely, that robust and healthy persons are often even more
susceptible to hypnotisation than feeble-minded persons or invalids.
Yet in hypnotism there may be almost every kind of di'mgreyation—
472 Mr. F. W. If. Myers.
of splitting up—of the Ego; and it is certainly hard to maintain that
the subject carrying out an elaborate post-hypnotic suggestion may be
normal, but that the experimenter who finds that he can hold a pencil
and write automatically is ipso facto proving himself diseased.
As for the theoretical meaning to be assigned to such phenomena, I
have already, I hope, made it plain that in my view there is not a mere
disintegration of the ordinary or supraliminal personality, but rather a
manifestation (in many cases) of subliminal strata of personality which
are rarely accessible except by automatisms of this kind. We are not
dealing with the cracks in a plate, but with fissures which, like those of
the earth's crust, testify to unknown depths and a volcanic power beneath
them. In short, the splitting-up of our total individuality has, in my
view, taken place already, and before our supraliminal memory begins ;
and the result of these experiments is more often to reunite than
further to sunder.
Time and experience will show whether Professor Janet, who has
the difficult task of proving a negative, will be able to maintain his
position, or whether he will change his view, as M. Binet has already
done.i The practically important point, in my view, is that intending
experimenters should not be deterred by supposing that, if they suc
ceed, they will thereby in some way be proving their own unsoundness.
It is important thus to insist on the easiness and harmlessness of
the experiment, inasmuch as I have not as yet been able to persuade
any large number of people to attempt crystal-gazing with even the
moderate degree of care and patience required. Possibly some fifty
persons may have made the attempt, and from these I have about
ten accounts of some amount of success, which almost all come from
personal acquaintances of my own—sometimes already known to me
as automatists in other ways—and thus give no real clue as to the
percentage of crystal seers in the population at large. All my infor
mants are leading ordinary healthy lives ; and, as will be seen, in the
case of one lady who has occasional attacks of illness, the power
altogether leaves her at such times, returning when her strength is
re-established. Most of the crystal seers known to me are women : but
this cannot be taken as indicating any real fact as to distribution of
the power of vision. It merely shows, I think, that in the educated
* M. Binet, who formerly belonged to the strict Salpetriere school, now says in his
book Lei Alterations dc la Prrsonnalite, p. l97 : " 11 est aujourd'hui devenu banal de
remarquer que la plupart des experiences qu'on a pratiqnees sur des personnes
hysteriques se r^petent avec des risultats a peu pies equivalents, mais amoindris, chez
les personnes saines, et que par consequent l'hysturie . . . doit etre cont-idere
comme un reactif pennottant de lendre plus apparents certains phenombnos delicats
de l'intelligence nonnale." It is gratifying to find that the view that these automatisms
are "delicate phenomenaof the normal intelligence" has passed thus noiselessly from
a heresy into a commonplace.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 473
classes women have more time to spare than men. It is not until the
experiment is introduced into psycho-physiological laboratories (as J
have reason to hope may shortly be done in several universities) that
we shall have statistics enough to determine points of this kind. Four
of my cases have exceptional interest, and shall be given at length ; to
the rest it will be enough to make briefer allusion.
XIII.—I will begin with a record contributed by Mrs. A. W.
'Verrall, a lecturer at Newnham College, and known to the classical
world as the translator of Pausanias. Mrs. Verrall made the experi
ments simply at my request, without previous knowledge of the subject
or interest in it. It will be seen that her crystal-visions do not involve
any telepathy or clairvoyance. They present in somewhat developed
form what appear to be usual early stages in this form of experiment.
The numbers within brackets represent the chronological order of the
experiments, all of which have been recorded without delay.
M. 46. Case I.—Mrs. Verrall.
It is a little more than three years ago that I first began experiments in
" crystal-gazing." I am, I believe, a good visualiser, and am in the habit of
embodying the greater part of my ideas in some pictorial form. The mention
of any name calls up a mental picture instantly, and I am often aware of the
picture of an idea before I have grasped the means of expressing it in words.
I have tried to find faces in the fire, and shapes in the clouds, with the usual
success, and I have had some spontaneous impressions of persons or scenes ;
but the visions obtained by looking intentionally into a glass of water or a
crystal are in some respects unlike all other visual impressions which I have
reciived. I should perhaps say that the sight of my two eyes is very unlike,
so unlike that I believe that I never use both at once. The left eye is very-
far-sighted and the right quite short-sighted. I habitually use the short
sighted eye for reading, writing, &c., but am often conscious of a difficulty
of vision if I shift the position of my book so as to bring it a little beyond
the range of the short-sighted eye. In that case the words seem to alter in
size and move to and fro as they do when one is adjusting a telescope to suit
the sight. I have never been able to use an opera-glass.
I have tried various objects in crystal-gazing, such as a cut crystal, a
globular crystal, a glass paper-weight and a glass full of water, and I find no
difference in their efficacy. I have also tried under varying conditions of
light, with the conclusion that a dim light is the most likely to result in the
seeing of a picture. I have sometimes seen pictures in quite bright light, but
never in absolute darkness. Often I see nothing at all but the bright points
of light in the crystal, and often I see nothing in the crystal, but get a mental
picture suggesting something I have forgotten to do. Indeed, I find crystal-
gazing a very convenient way of recalling things forgotten, but in that case I
see nothing in the crystal. The difference between a picture in the crystal
and a mental picture is quite marked but difficult to describe ; it will
perhaps help to show what I mean if I say that the recalled image of what I
have seen in the crystal differs as much from the actual image as the mental
474 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
image of a person (lifters from the actual person. I believe that with me
the crystal picture is built up from the bright points in the crystal, aa
they sometimes enter into it ; but the picture, when once produced, has a
reality which I have never been able to obtain when looking into the fire or
trying to call up an imaginary scene with my eyes shut. It has occasionally
happened that I have been able to see more on a closer investigation than on
the first glance, but if I try to interpose a magnifying-glass between my eye and
the crystal the picture instantly goes and only the recollection remains. The
following case is almost the only one where I have seen a real person, and
here the picture grew distinct as I looked.
I saw (27) a black object which defined itself into the head of a man ; then I
saw that it was my husband's head turned nearly in profile towards my left.
Behind it was a square-Kicked chair of brown leather. He was reading, his.
eyes being on a book, which I could not see. I tried to see the whole figure,
in order to know what the book was. and shut my eyes. On opening them I
saw the whole figure for a moment, but it was too small for me to distinguish
anything. In a moment the head came back, and I had an impression that
the book was red, though I could not see it.
As far as I could ascertain, this picture was not telepathic. This is not
the only occasion on which I have had a distinct impression of colour coupled
with a consciousness that I had not seen the colour. Once I saw a flower (20)
which "I knew to be pink, though I saw no colour," and again (12) I once
saw a " black cat with ribbon round neck which I knew to be red though it
had no colour." In these last two cases I spent some time trying to see the
colour which I knew to be there, but I was not successful. In the greater
number of cases the picture has been coloured, but sometimes I am (3, 32)
only aware of luminosity and darkness, sometimes (23) of black and white ns.
in a pen-and-ink sketch. I have not been able to find that the colour of the
background for the crystal produces any effect on the colour of the picture.
I have tried placing the crystal on white linen, dark blue silk, bright blue
stuff and red leather, but have never been conscious of any suggestion of
colour from the background, or able to trace any connection between the
background and the vision.
Movement occurs not infrequently in the pictures and so does change.
I use the word movement when I see in the crystal a picture within which
occurs an alteration, and the word change when the whole picture undergoes
alteration and is succeeded by another. Thus there was movement in the
following case : (8) "Landscape, large piece of still water in evening light,
beyond it mountains and hills, two snowy peaks, one sharply defined dark
hill in front—open space on right of mountains. Steamer passing from
right to left till it touched shore and was lost to sight."
The next case (20) illustrates what I mean by change. "I saw nothing
for some time. Then a flower like a convolvulus, which I knew to be pink
though I saw no colour, first sideways, then facing with a hard round knob
in the middle. Then I knew it was not pink, but metal. I knew this from
the hardness of outline, not the colour. It kept changing from one position
to the other."
I will now give a case (32)—the only one—in which occurred change as
well as movement :—
The Subliminal Consciousness. 475
" Saw sphere in circle, only upper half visible—suggested globe on stand.
Then the thing turned aslant and the outer ring was fiery, the sphere black,
outer ring revolving, sphere apparently still ; presently I saw that the sphere
was also revolving. "
I have sometimes been aware of development in the picture—things at
first dim and confused becoming clear and distinct, but I distinguish between
this gradual development and the movement and change described above.
The variety of pictures seen is considerable ; I have classified as follows
the 33 crystal-visions recorded, covering a period of 21 months.
a. Animals, 5.
b. Human figures, 7.
c. Common objects, 5 (such as clock, ring, melon, &c.).
d. Geometrical figure, 1.
e. Written words, 2.
/. Scenes, 4.
g. Fanciful groups or scenes, 9.
With regard to the written words (e),I may say that both instances occurred
after a distinct suggestion from myself. On the first occasion I looked in the.
crystal immediately after writing to ask for an address which I had known but
forgotten. I saw a row of small letters, wondered if they represented the
address required, then saw plainly 39, Onslow-square. It was only the number
which I wanted, and I found that the number was not correct. On the second
occasion (10) I had been trying to obtain automatic writing while looking in the
crystal. I was also wondering who had put a pair of lost scissors in a very
conspicuous place, where I had just found them. I saw a name written,
and found that hiy right hand had written the same name ; it was a
name likely to occur to me. Under the seventh head (g), "Fanciful groups or
scenes," come the largest number of cases. The first picture I ever saw (1)
was one of this class. A friend of mine had been telling me of Miss X.'s
experiences, of which I then heard for the first time, and the idea occurred
to me of trying whether I had any similar faculty. I looked into a glass of
water on a white pocket-handkerchief, in broad daylight, for a quarter of an
hour. I saw a group, consisting of a beautiful draped figure (on my right)
with curly hair, and something uplifted in its left hand. The right hand was
held downwards, but not quite close to the side. The figure sometimes
looked to my left, sometimes faced me, shifting from one position to the
other. The right hand was not defined. On my left, on a flat stone, was a
huge toad, its back towards me, gazing at the figure.
On another occasion (4), I saw a large snail-shell, with a baby's face
looking out of the end where the snail should be ; it was not very distinct,
but the markings of the shell were visible, and it was coloured.
One other (10) of these fancy pictures I will give in detail, as it was rather
more elaborate than most. I was looking at the crystal on a blue ground,
with a single lamp at some distance in the room.
My eyes soon got tired, then the colour on the crystal grew pale primrose,
then the colour of pale burnished brass. Then I saw a small bright fairy
figure fly across from left to right, followed by a large black swallow-like
creature. When the swallow reached the right edge of the picture it turned
476 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
back (without turning round), moving towards the left, and presently the
fairy came into sight, but turned round with its head towards the swallow
and arms uplifted, as if beating it off. The swallow seemed smaller than
before. But with a swoop, the swallow, huge as before, swept again to the
right, pushing the fairy before it. I saw a faint light, like an evening sky,
behind the tail of the swallow, and then all was black darkness.
I find it very difficult to say what size the pictures appear to me to be,
as I have nothing to compare them with. They seem to me, however, not to
be bounded by the size of the crystal, and they vary in the impression
produced. But though tho things certainly appear to me sometimes to be
" large," and sometimes " small," I am quite unable to determine how such
an impression is produced.
I have taken considerable pains to endeavour to trace connections Detween
the pictures in the crystal and ideas or objects lately present to my mind,
but there are only nine cases out of the thirty-three where I have perceived
any possible connection between my thoughts and my visions. I will give
these nine cases in detail. In seven cases the vision was possibly due to
something in the thoughts or experience immediately preceding the crystal-
gazing ; in the eighth case there is perhaps a likeness between the vision and
an object constantly seen during some days before and after the crystal-
vision ; the ninth case is difficult to classify.
Two of these seven (4, 10) have already been mentioned ; they are the
cases where written words appeared. In the next case (5) I had been
wondering what people we should meet at a luncheon party to which we were
going, audi saw in the crystal a human figure, that of "an old lady in black,
with a veil or hood on," not a very likely guest, perhaps. In the fourth case
(24) after "endless fleeting pictures, single figures, groups, sense of rush,
figure with arm out," suddenly the whole became clear "and I saw a man in
uniform and cap, with gold or silver braid, holding out his arm to signal, and
a train rushing on full speed, and I knew there was an accident, though I
saw none. " I had been to town and back on that day. The next two (29, 30)
were seen in immediate succession ; I saw first the letter A in small bright
stars, with a comet overhead, and on looking again, a pyramid dark against
a red sky. I find a note in the book that we had been "noticing the red
glow of the sky, and a star," just before I looked in the crystal. The last
of these cases (32) is one already described ; I need only add the suggested
explanation, that I had been in the late afternoon at a lecture illustrated by
lantern, and that this vision occurred about an hour after my return from the
lecture.
In the next case I have to mention (15), the connection is not obvious, and
possibly there is none at all, but I give the note and the comment as they
stand in my book. I " saw a floating figure holding something outstretched
in the right hand, which became defined as a wand. The figure faced me,
had trailing robes. It was approaching a bright object, which defined itself
gradually as a crescent moon with a face. The figure was dark ; the outline
of the figure was indistinct, and the general effect that of a dark, irregular
cross ; the crescent was very brilliant." Two days after this vision, as I took
up a book which I had been reading aloud every evening for some days, I
noticed on the cover a picture of a moon with a figure—not, however, a face
The Subliminal Consciousness. 477
—which reminded me of my crystal picture. On looking again I could sec-
no close resemblance, but the book may have suggested the " vision," just
as it certainly recalled it.
In the next case also (25) the actual sight of an object recalled a crystal
picture which it may have originally suggested. On August 25th, 1890,
I was at Brighton, where I had been for some time. I saw in the crystal, at
10.15 p.m., an "ugly clock in white alabaster, round face on hideous stand,
dial black, letters gold." I made a rough sketch of the outline of this clock,
but it suggested nothing to me at the time. On September 9th, im
mediately after returning to Cambridge, I went to the house of a woman I
knew to inquire after a servant of mine who had been suddenly attacked
with mania and removed to this house—her sister's—and thence to the
asylum. On entering the room I noticed the clock, having some unexplained
association with it. Then it flashed upon me that it was the clock I had
seen in the crystal. It was, however, not perfectly like. The real clock is
in shape like the visionary clock, and is of the same material. The dial,
however, is white, not black, with gold letters ; but there are in the real
clock two round black ornamental spots on the stand, which did not appear
in the vision. I had heard on August 22nd that my servant had been taken to
this house, and had been thinking a great deal about both the servant and
her sister. I had once been in the house, about a year before, and probably
seen the clock, though I had no conscious recollection of it. I found,
however, that they had had the clock when they went into the house, and
that it had always stood on the mantelpiece, so that I must have seen it on
my first visit. I have never since seen any clock at all like the "crystal
clock," though I have taken special notice of my friends' clocks.
Two other incidents I have recorded in connection with crystal-gazing,
but they are not included in the thirty-three cases mentioned above. On one
occasion (14), while looking into the crystal, I had a sudden vision, not con
nected with any points of light in the crystal, and not in any way resembling
a crystal-vision. I noted the exact minute of the appearance, which I have
never done except in the case of what I may call external visions, such as I
have sometimes seen when I have not been seeking to obtain them. I have
had at least three such visions, once on looking up suddenly towards a
window and twice on turning to a looking-glass. But they are quite unlike
the crystal-visions, and I only mention this here to make the record complete.
On another occasion (18), I was reading and looked up towards the fire,
when I saw in my crystal, which was on the mantelpiece as usual, a small
figure spring up and run across the crystal. The figure was dressed in close-
fitting green clothes and might have been a monkey or a man. It disappeared
with a skip out of the right-hand side of the crystal. This vision differs from
the usual ones, in that the figure was distinctly inside the crystal and
disappeared when it reached the limit of the crystal. It was also spontaneous,
as 1 had no intention of looking at the crystal.
I have not attempted to draw any inferences from the crystal visions I
have had, but have only recorded them, classifying them roughly in order
that they may be a little less unintelligible than the bare record of them
would otherwise be. I hope to obtain some further results when I have
time to look regularly in the crystal, but I find it of no use to look for
2 K
478 Mr. F. W. H Myers.
visions unless I am fairly free from absorbing interests or occupations of any
kind. I shall be very glad to receive any suggestions for experiments to be
tried in future.
I may add that my health is usually good, and was good during the time
of my experiments in crystal-gazing. 1 felt no fatigue, nor any evil or
unpleasant result from the experiments.
M. de G. Verrall.
These experiments suggest several reflections
1. This is almost the only case where I have as yet found that the
influence of points de repere was manifest to the experimenter herself.
Such points or specks of reflection may sometimes have been influential
oven when not consciously observed. But in most cases the conditions
of vision seem to make this unlikely ;—the vision generally beginning
with a bright light followed by a smoky cloud in the crystal. In fact
the genesis of crystal pictures is apt to resemble the genesis of spon
taneous, rather than that of hypnotically-suggested, hallucinations.
A Cambridge undergraduate known to me—another crystal seer, by
the way, whom it would be difficult to suspect of hysteria—thinks that
the first picture seen by him in the crystal, a mere delta of light, took its
origin from a bright point of reflection. But with him the pictures
almost at once followed quite another analogy ; they became like very
brilliant illusions hypnagogiqit.es, and soon seemed to come close to
the eye, wherever the crystal might be placed. I defer further
account of this case (Mr. S. W. S.) until more experiments have been
made.
2. Mrs. Verrall's subjective conviction that such and such an
object was pink when no pink was visible, suggests two interesting
parallels. In the first place it somewhat resembles the conviction of
a blind correspondent of Professor W. James (Principles of Psychology,
Vol. II., p. 323) that the coat, say, of a figure in his mental picture, or
quasi-hallucination, was " pepper-and-salt," although he had no true
visual memory of colours. And in the second place it reminds us of
some of the subjects of audition colorfe (see especially Professor
Gruber's paper already referred to) who know that a certain sound is
accompanied by a certain colour, but do not actually see the colour.
When the idea of a colour is thus cerebrally initiated we may expect
that it will present various degrees of intensity. Below the point at
which such an idea becomes (so to say) definite entencephalic i vision
there may be a feeling of obscure subliminal connection between the
one form of sensation and the other. The colours seen by " sound-
i I cannot avoid using this word, already suggested {Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p 341,
Note), as correlative to cntnptic. The " chromatisms " which the sound seer sees
"in his brain" are comparable to the phosphenes which we all may see " in
cur eyes." They are a quite different thing from imagination-images, or " mind's-eye "
vision.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 479
seers " (a shorter term than "subjects of audition coloree") are often
of a special indescribable shade.1 The light in " photopsy from shock "—
which shock, as Fere points out, need not necessarily affect the head
directly—is also of a tint and quality hard to parallel in external
vision. Professor James's absolutely blind correspondent, already
mentioned, insists that he has sensations—for himself quite definite and
mi generis—corresponding to the names of colours. If any fresh case
were to occur of the restoration to sight of persons blind from infancy,
it would ba very desirable to get them to compare previous notions of
colour with the reality. Our increasing knowledge of this enten-
cephalic chromatopsy adds a fresh interest to the question,—important
alike for the physiologist and the psychologist,—as to what is really
involved in the " externalisation " of an inward picture. Are actual
changes set up in the retina t such chemical or other changes as
habitually induce retinal fatigue, and tend to induce complementary
colours ? In earlier writings on hallucinations Gurney and I assumed
as probable that in the case of a completely externalised hallucination
there was some retinal change. Fere takes this view as regards
hypnotic hallucinations, and asserts that he himself can call up a
mental image of a red spot so strongly that he gets a green after
image of the imaginary red spot. Wundt also takes such after
images as a proved fact, both in the case of illusions hypnago-
giques and of hallucinations in general. " The phantasms of sight,"
he says, " which present themselves before falling asleep, are some
times so vivid that (as J. Midler, H. Meyer, and others have
observed) they may be followed by after-images. In such cases the
excitation from the central sensory tracts seems to have extended itself
to the retina.f' 2 And again : " Hallucinations do not only resemble
ordinary sense-perceptions in all their directly-given subjective peculiari
ties but they may also be followed by positive and negative after-images,
such as follow on the fatigue of the sensory apparatus." 3 A hint,
however, kindly given by Dr. A. W. Waller, to the effect that
we need that such cases should be "observed with full appreciation
of the astonishing minuteness of excitation capable of acting as
suggestion to certain subjects," has suggested to me to press my crystal
seers to careful observation of their own experience in the matter.
The result, briefly, is that of the four crystal seers whose cases I give
.'tt length two good visualisers believe that they do see complementary
colours following on phantasmal images, while the third good visualiser,
Mrs. Verrall, with Miss A., who is a bad visualiser, can see no suck
i Firi, Pathologic des Emotions, p. 30.
s Wundt, Phys. Psych., 3rd Edition, Vol. II., p. 432.
3 Wundt, PhUo3oph. Sludien, VI., p. 18.
2 k 2
480 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
colours. Miss X's experience on this point will be found in the-
course of her own narrative. Mr. Keulemnns writes :—
After calling up, mentally, a bright red, I can see (though not always) the
complementary colour, when looking up to the ceiling immediately afterwards.
Vet I have never succeeded in thus obtaining the complementaries of iiale
shades, such as lemon yellow and lilac, greys or browns.
Mrs. Verrall sends the following remarks, which are of interest on
the whole question of the externalisation of images, and also as to the
transformation into visual terms of a tactile impression subliminally
received.
Since recording my experiments in crystal-vision I have been trying
some further experiments of a different kind, with a view to testing my
power of visualisation.
I find that I am able to call up a voluntary picture of an object or a scene
with extreme distinctness ; indeed, in the case of a simple object, the visual
image, as far as I can discover, differs from the actual object only in having
no solidity—that is, it casts no shadow and appears to be all on the same
plane. The form is as well defined and the colour appears as vivid in the
visualisation as in the real thing. I have endeavoured to ascertain whether
form and colour are equally well reproduced in the visualisation, and as far
as my own impression goes there is no difference ; I never think of a coloured
object without its colour, but I have not been able to produce complementary
after-images from gazing at an imaginary colour. I may say that it is only
after a prolonged gazing at a real colour that I can see the complementary
after-imago, and the colour of the after-image is never anything but very
faint.
My visualisations usually, as I have said, have no solidity, but I am able
at any time to invest them with solidity by imagining that I see the real
thing and not a memory or imagination picture. In that case they cast
shadows, and I am able to realise distance. I have much more control over
them when once they are there than I have over crystal-visions.
At one time, some three years ago, I tried a longish series of experiments
with cards with a view to seeing whether I could educate my sense of touch
sufficiently to distinguish the cards after passing my thumbs once swiftly
over the face of each card. I had some success, but the reason I record the
experiment here is this : At first, while my attention was consciously
directed to my fingers, I was aware that I could detect differences in smooth
ness of surface, which I learnt gradually to interpret ; but after a couple of
hundred trials, when I grew more expert and more familiar with the experi
ment, I lost all consciousness of the means which enabled me to guess, ami
"saw" pictures of the cards which "determined" the particular guess.
This experiment seems to show that conclusions arrived at by other means
are presented to my mind in the form of visual images, and suggests that
sudden visual impressions, spontaneous as well as induced, may in my case
be projected visually after they have been produced in some other way.
3. Mrs. Verrall has on two occasions had spontaneous visions of
scenes, not resembling the crystal-visions, but appearing to alter her
The Subliminal Consciousness. 481
whole surroundings. These visions she believes to have been veridical ;
to have conveyed a more or less accurate knowledge of what was pass
ing or had passed elsewhere. If this be so, then in her case the
•experimental visions appear less profound than the spontaneous ; which
is in accordance with analogy. Once, after an apparently complete
recovery from illness, she had a purely pathological hallucination,
which she at once recognised as such and which was several times
repeated.
The veridical visions represented scenes of no special or exciting
character ; but rather, as often in these cases, seem to have been flashed
upon the percipient "by mere chance." I subjoin her account.
M. 48.
As supplementary to the pictures I have seen in the crystal, I add brief
accounts of other visions I have had spontaneously, which may have been
produced by causes somewhat similar, as I was in each case looking towards
;\ looking-glass. The first was in 1885, some years before I had heard of
crystal-gazing, and a few months after I had received an impression about
my husband which seemed to be telepathic.
1885, May 5th, Tuesday, 8.45 a.m. This morning, about 8.10, as I was
standing before my glass, after A. had gone down to breakfast, I had a sudden
sensation of absolute stillness—cessation of sound—and looking up saw A.
across the breakfast-table with papers in his hand, which he was reading.
As he was not standing in his usual place, but on my side of the table, I
inferred that it was my letters he was reading, and ran downstairs to see.
He was standing as I had seen him (i.e., opposite my place, not his own)
with Triibner's catalogue in his hands ; I told him of my vision as soon as I
came down.
The second case occurred on July 29th, 1890. I was in my room in the
afternoon, thinking about a paper I had just read in the Proceedings and of a
friend with whom I had talked of the matter in question, when "as J turned
to the glass I had a sudden impression of Mr. Y., in Swiss mountaineering
costume, light dittos and hat, sitting astride on an arete, face downwards,
with a stick or ice-axe across the figure. Some other man was standing
below, looking up." The picture did not impress me as veridical, though it
was very vivid. But the feeling in my mind was one of amusement, not
alarm, nor interest—the attitude being obviously absurd, and impossible in
an ascent of any real difficulty or danger. It suggested rather a person
sliding down a stair rail, but I saw the snow and rocks of an arete quite
plainly. I believed Mr. Y. to be in Dauphins' at the time.
I wrote to him later in the autumn asking him what he was doing on July
2!Hh, at 4.15 p.m., and heard that it was an off day, and that he was prob
ably loitering about in front of the hotel. When I saw him in November
I told him what I had seen, and he then said that he had actually been
astride of an arete for a moment on the day before, July 28th, but had not
remained so long, thinking the attitude unnecessary. The guide had crossed
first, sitting astride, and Mr. Y. was second, the whole number of the party
being four. The arete did not, however, slope downwards, but was nearly
level.
482 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
I append a copy of the note of tho possibly telepathic impression of my
husband above referred to :—
" 1884, October 20th, Monday, 2.45 p.m. I waited lunch to-day for A.
[who was in College, as usual on Monday] till two o'clock, without thinking
why he should be late, as he often is not home much before two. But at
two o'clock [by the dining-room clock] I began lunch. Then, as I was think
ing that A. had said he should be home at the ' usual time ' [1.45] there
suddenly flashed across me "—I was facing tho window—"a picture of A.
standing with pipers in his hand and Mr. Z. sitting in a chair not quite
close or straight to a square-cornered table. And there followed the thought
'Oh, yes; A. has left those proofs . . . with Mr. Z.' The next
moment it struck me as odd that I should have had the impression first and
the explanation after, so I looked at the clock. It was 2.5. I felt certain
that A. would not be home for eight or nine minutes, which is the time it
takes him to walk from College, and, indeed, when he rang the bell it was
2.14. As soon as he came into the room I said, ' Have you been to Mr. Z.
to look at the proofs?' When he said 'Yes,' I asked again, 'Have you
come straight from there ? ' And on his saying ' Yes ' again, I told him of
my impression."
My husband confirms this account, and adds that during the latter part
of the interview with Mr. Z. he had been standing and Mr. Z. sitting at a
table. The coincidence of time must have been pretty nearly exact. I
ought to say that I knew that Mr. Z. had received the proofs to look over
the night before, but neither A. nor I had the least expectation of their
being so soon done, and A. would not have called on Mr. Z. that morning if
he had not gone to A.'s rooms in the course of the morning to ask him to
do so.
M. he G. Vekball.
XIV.—It may be further observed that the tendency of automa
tism to hypcrnmesia is shown in its nascent form in Mrs. Yerrall's
habit of remembering forgotten names, &c, by gazing into the crystal.
And as it is on this point that Professor Janet's experiments have
largely turned, I may here quote a report, revised by himself, of the
remarks with which he followed this paper when it was read (in
part) to the International Congress of Experimental Psychology,
August 3rd, 1892 :—
M. 49.
Professor Janet, having been invited to speak upon the paper, said that
he would content himself with certifying the reality of the facts described by
Mr. Myers. In certain circumstances there were patients who could not
look long on a shining surface without experiencing illusions and a kind of
hallucinations. Sometimes those hallucinations possessed interest ; some
times they might furnish important information on the state of mind of the
patient. He cited some of the hallucinations which he had studied. (1) It
was known that after serious attacks of natural somnambulism there was a
complete loss of memory of what had passed during the attack. Sometimes
recollection could be restored easily, by divers processes, and in particular
by suggestion. Too often it was impossible to restore recollection in this.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 483
way ; and it was then necessary to use artificial means. That of which he
had availed himself most often was the well-known process of automatic
writing ; but other methods might be adopted. One day a young female
patient had an attack of somnambulism, during which she had written a
letter which she had afterwards torn up, and the contents of which she had
forgotten. By causing her to gaze upon a shining surface he succeeded in
making her read by hallucination the whole of that letter. (2) Many patients
were tormented by fixed ideas. Some had full consciousness of those ideas
and openly stated what they were. Others could not well describe them,
and did not clearly know what it was which tormented them. Others had no
notion of those fixed ideas, which provoked only states of emotion and
impulsions in them. For example : a young man had continual fear, without
being able to explain what he was afraid of. It was sufficient to make him
gaze on a shining surface for some time for him to see the flames of a fire ;
and after listening to a monotonous sound for some time he became aware of
certain other sounds, those of the bugle of the fire brigade ; in a word, that
process revealed the persistent idea of a fire which he had witnessed at some
previous date. (3) Certain patients attacked by abonlie (loss of volitional
power) needed to see from time to time a person who acted as the director
of their conscience. When the patient had quitted this director he or she
was well ; but at the end of a variable time again fell ill and needed, so to
speak, to be wound up again. It was difficult to know what characterised
the period of health. A patient of that kind had, at the time when she
gazed steadily at an object, the hallucination of seeing M. Janet's portrait,
which acted as a kind of moral direction which persisted unconsciously. As
for the explanation of the facts, he agreed that Mr. Myers was right in
suggesting very different causes according to the cases. It was impossible
to explain all those complex phenomena by a single word. There was
suggestion, certainly ; but there were also other very different things, such
as the associations of ideas, the modifications of the state of consciousness,
dreams, &c. As to the patients whom he had observed, he had always been
struck by the phenomena concerning the power of attention. They were
always weak patients, who were incapable of fixing their attention long on
the same object ; when they were forced to do so for a long time they
experienced every kind of psychological modification. In particular they
lost the control of their movements and of their ideas. He had seen, for
example, a child of that character who could not pay attention at school
without having a kind of convulsion. With his patients the dreams which
they had been made to undergo automatically manifested themselves easily
when the conscious thought was almost suppressed by fatigue. In a word, it
was an ingenious process for bringing to light dreams which had been dreamt
without the knowledge of the dreamer.
With crystal-seers at an early stage confused reminiscences often
supply the staple of the pictures. Thus Miss Z, a cousin of the
Marquis of Bute, to whom pictures come slowly and obscurely, saw
several scenes which to her seemed new, but which Lord Bute, with
much probability, traced to memories of scenes well known to him,
and which this lady knew less intimately. Somewhat similarly, I
4S4 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
have watched an experiment in which Miss Z described the slow
formation of a crystal-picture of a man's head, which only after a long
time she saw to be almost certainly intended as a picture of Tito—the
hero-villain of Romola, which she had just been reading. This slow
and difficult vision was found somewhat fatiguing; nor should I recom
mend any experimenter to push the trial to a point at which any
strain on mind or eyes is felt. I leave for comment on a futuie
occasion several similar cases, which, though still at this early stage,
seem likely to develop into more of interest.
XV.-—With the experiments of my next informant, Miss X, readers
of these Proceedings are already familiar. It is gratifying to know that
it was her paper on Crystal-gazing in Part XIV. (to which all who have
not read it should here refer) which led Professor Janet to undertake
the interesting experiments above narrated. It will be seen that Miss
X's phenomena continue pretty steadily, and that her earlier conclu
sions from them, although in several ways developed, have not needed
any important modification. Her results increase, of course, in value
with each year's continuance. As to the relation of the visions to
health, for instance, Miss X's experience should now carry much
weight. I will leave her to speak for herself, beginning with this topic
of health, and gradually ascending the scale of intrinsic interest in the
visions recoided.
Case II.—Miss X.
M. 60.
Health.—In view of certain statements which arc current as to the
physical conditions of crystal-gazing, I wish to say, as emphatically as
possible, that in my own case these experiments are neither the cause nor
the effect of any morbid condition.
I can say positively, from frequent experience, that to attempt experi
ments when mind and body are not entirely at ease is absolute waste of time.
The very conditions which might make crystal-gazing a fatiguing and
exhausting process render it impossible. I can with equal certainty disclaim,
for myself, the allegation that success in inducing hallucinations of this kind
is due in any way to an itat maladif. The four years during which I have
carried on experiments in crystal-gazing have hecn among the healthiest of
my life. I cannot describe myself as robust ; and indeed I was for more
than three years an invalid—the direct cause of my illness being a railway
accident ;—but my incapacity is for the endurance of vitiated atmosphere
and late hours, and not for habits of early rising, systematic mental work,
and a walk of from six to twelve miles a day in almost all weathers. I belong
to no effete race, but to a family which for physique and longevity might
challenge any in the annals of Mr. Francis Galton ;—a family which has
never lived in cities, and which, for many generations, has expended its
energies and ambitions on horses and hounds.
Classification of Pictures.—I may divide my crystal-visions into three
classes, which pass into each other by gradual transition. First and lowest
1 place the most numerous class, consisting partly of mere reproductions,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 485
which may be voluntary or may be spontaneous, of objects recently seen—
arranged, perhaps, in some fantastic way ; but more largely of pictures
which are merely fanciful, and have, so far as I know, no actual counterpart
in fact. These, of course, I discourage as mere waste of time. Such
pictures plainly bring no fresh knowledge ; they seem merely to objectify
ordinary mind's-eye pictures, or the meaningless scraps of inward visions
which float before one when attention is relaxed. These are quite as vivid as
any other crystal-pictures, and will come at any time, if I am not over-tired.
Above these comes a class of pictures which, though they may not communi
cate any new fact, yet impress me as containing some memory or some imagin
ative effect which does not come from my ordinary self. In this class I should
place revivals of memory, and also illustrations of thought :—e.g., pictures
appropriate to a story of which I have thought, or to the sentiment of a piece
of music, or to a place of which I have heard some mention. I feel that my
ordinary self has not invented these pictures ; and that they show a coherent
intelligence ; but that intelligence is working on date which I have at some
time or other consciously acquired. The third class, which is the rarest,
consists of pictures which are in some sense veridical ; which bring me
information as to something, past, present, or future, which I have no other
means of knowing.
Class I.—I can generally, but not always, see in a crystal, or other clear
depth or smooth surface, a life-like picture of some object which has lately
occupied my attention—as a book which I have been reading, an advertise
ment in a railway carriage, &c. These pictures do not resemble the after
images which seem to blur my retina after I have looked at a bright scene.
Those after-images are, with me, indistinct, and show no true colours, only a
contrast of bright and dark. The crystal-pictures, on the other hand, show
true colours, and are like memory-images, only more distinct. If, however,
I only sec images of this kind, I generally cease to look. Their only interest
lies in the facility which they offer for optical experiments.
These experiments, however, have been for the most part unsatisfactory,
as it is almost impossible to say how far the results arc due to mere expecta
tion. In no case thus far have I obtained an optical result which surprised
mo, nor a result capable of such exact measurement as to prove that it was
either optically wrong, or more exactly right than my general knowledge
could have made it. I mention a few experiments.
1. Distortion.—If I look in a spoon I see the image distorted in the
familiar way. But I cannot say whether it is distorted precisely as a real
image would be. For in the first place the picture does not always appear
to be on the surface of the spoon or other speculum. For instance, in a
globular crystal, or semi-globular ring-stone, the picture appears as on a flat
surface. In the second place, I could not, at any rate in the short time
allowed, draw the distorted picture accurately enough to admit of subsequent
comparison with the reflection of the real object itself in the spoon.
2. Reflection.—If I see a picture under circumstances which suggest that it
is a reflection, I see it reversed as in a mirror. Thus, in a railway carriage, I
experimented with a small crystal and small mirror, both hanging at my
chatelaine. I easily reproduced in the crystal pictures (not real reflections) of
the advertisements on the carriage walls, and just as Lane's Egyptian
48G Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
magician told him that the crystal "made left appear right," so were these
pictures reversed, and the print appeared as Spiegel-schrift. But I could
then reflect the imaginary picture from the crystal into the mirror, and there
the letters, " Compton's Hotel," appeared set right again, and legible in the
ordinary way.
On the other hand I once suddenly entered a drawing-room where there
was a large mirror, and saw a name for which I had been hunting in vain,
printed as though on a visiting card fastened on the wall, and not reversed,
in the middle of the mirror, which thus acted as a speculum. But note
that when I saw the word I had for the instant forgotten that there was a
mirror there, and I took the reflected wall in the mirror for a real wall.
So that the picture conformed to my erroneous conception, and not to any
true optical law.
3. Magnification.—I have used the magnifying-glass 11 times and it has
always appeared to magnify. In one case already recorded (Vol.V., p. 513) the
apparent enlargement of the picture enabled me to read significant letters,
without which the picture would have been meaningless. But this, of course,
may be classed as merely one form of the picture's development ; that is to
say, the letters might have become visible without the magnifying-glass,
although they seemed to be vanishing and to be only just caught. I have
throe times used a bogus glass of similar size and appearance, and that glass,
did not magnify. However, I have never felt sure that I did not in some
way distinguish between the true and the false magnifier even in the act of
carrying them to my picture.
4. Double Refraction.—I once tried a flake of Iceland spar, an object
which I had never before handled. I knew, however, its property of double
refraction, so that the duplication of the picture which followed may have
been due to expectation, although it looked to me rather more curious than
I consciously anticipated.
5. Colour Contrast.—It is my impression that there is retinal fatigue, and
consequent sequence of complementary colours, from gazing at crystal-pictures
as much as from gazing at real objects. I never doubted this until the
question was put to me, although I now find it difficult to prove that uncon
scious expectation may not account for this also.
I will first mention spontaneous, and then experimental instances.
I received one day a visit from a friend in a rather striking blue gown,
which, some hours later, the crystal reproduced. This picture was followed
by another of the lady's little boy, whom I had not seen lately, dressed in a
bright orange garment, which I feel sure he cloes not possess.
Again, one afternoon someone was talking about Palissy ware. I was not
specially addressed, and was staring aimlessly at a dark green, almost black
glass scent-bottle. I observed in it a picture, all in pale green, of a man
hastily tearing up some wooden garden palings ; and before I had time to
wonder what this meant, it was followed by another picture, all in red, of
the corner of the library where as a child I kept my books, including one
distinctly recognisable, which I have not seen these fifteen years, called
The Provocations of Mine. Palissy. Then I remembered that one of this
lady's provocations consisted in the fact that her husband fed his furnace
with the household furniture, or even the fixtures of the house itself.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 487
These are the only spontaneous colour-sequences which I can recall, as
the pictures do not usually show any one predominating colour. By experi
ment I find that if I tire the retina by staring at a red flower, I see a green
one in the crystal ; and conversely that if I summon up (as I sometimes can do)
a red flower in the crystal, I then see a green patch on the wall. If I use
two crystals there is a similar change of colour between the first picture and
the second. Or if I merely desire a change of colour in a crystal-picture I
find that blue is followed by orange, yellow by purple, green by red. But
this may, of course, be due to unconscious self-suggestion, althougltl am not
so familiar with the sequence of colours that I could without hesitation name
the complement of any given colour.
The same result would occur if my blue picture were merely conjured up
with closed eyes. On being transferred to the crystal—I, as it were, remaining
entirely passive—it would appear as orange. When I first discerned this fact
it was distinctly to my own surprise, and it required a moment's thought to
assure myself that this was in the natural course of events. It may be
worth noting that a distinct effort is required to convert a scene—lighted, for
example, with red—to its natural colouring or even to a neutral tint. It is
necessary to close the eyes or to look away for a moment ; so that what
follows is a second edition rather than a prolongation of the first picture.
On the other hand, the mere desire for change will produce a green light
rapidly alternating with the original hue.
0. Size af Pictures. —The pictures always seem to fit into the crystal, or to
be seen within the limits of any larger speculum. They never appear larger
than the speculum, nor lose their distinct location, though, if they are fairly
simple in outline, I can generally reproduce them at will of any desired size,
when I raise my eyes to any flat background,—as the wall, a screen, &«., in
front of me.
7. Bise, Duration, and Disappearance.—I have looked at a picture for
eight minutes without its disappearing. I then was tired and looked away.
Generally the pictures last two or three minutes. If there is movement in
the picture, e.g. , if it represents a street with carriages passing, it usually
lasts longer than if it represents an inanimate object. Sometimes the
picture is there suddenly and completely ; others are built up by degrees,
sometimes with grotesque results. These are generally fanciful pictures,
partly shaped by my conscious mind. I do not, however, perceive that any
use is made of points de reptre. There is a similar variety in their departure.
Some I can dismiss at will. Some disappear slowly ; and the essential part,
so to say, may disappear before the accessories. I once stood outside a door
with a ground-glass pattern, waiting to hear news of a friend dangerously ill
within. This scene, which I suppose had unconsciously impressed me as
scenes witnessed in moments of emotion will do, reappeared on the same day
in the crystal. Then all faded except the pattern on the door ; and when I
took the crystal out again at the end of a week the pattern still persisted.
I have mentioned these points, some of which belong equally to all my
pictures, in connection with the first or lowest class, that of mere memory-
images, brighter indeed and more permanent than those which I can summon,
up " in my mind's eye," but not otherwise very different.
Class II.—My second class consists of fanciful pictures, and of pictures
4S8 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
•of scenes once consciously known, but now forgotten by my ordinary self.
The fanciful pictures much resemble illusions hi/pnagogiqnes, to which I am
subject. I can, however, sou the illusions hi/piutyoyiques in the dark and with
my eyes shut, while to see the crystal-pictures I need at least just enough
light to make a bright point on the ring or crystal. These fancy pictures in
the crystal often take the form of scenes in some little story which I
have amused myself by composing. I have quoted in my previous paper one
•or two cases where the scene thus shown differed from what I had meant to
happen in my story. But I have a habit of inwardly visualising imaginary
scenes ; and these developments in the crystal, though they may strike
me as unexpected improvements, move within the ordinary limits of my
thought, like ideas of my own, rather happier than usual.
Sometimes when crystal-vision recovers for me a memory which has not,
so to say, sunk far out of sight, I get at it by a symbolic picture which shows
that my unconscious self has gone through some chain of association, of a
trifling but characteristic kind. For instance, I have been studying trees
lately, and one day was annoyed by a vague impression of having made
acquaintance with something new and interesting which I could not recall.
In the crystal I recognised exactly the spot where I knew that I had seen
this interesting tree ; but I could see no trees, only piles and piles of indis
tinguishable dead leaves. Then the recollection flashed upon me. The tree I
wanted was the "red-flowered buck-eye" chestnut; and the link between
•dead leaves and chestnut-trees lay in a line of Mrs. Browning's :
" Not a grand nature. Not my chestnut woods
« )f Vallombrosa "—
which I had happened to notice a few days previously as a variety on the
Miltonic picture of Vallombrosa as it looks when the leaves have fallen.
Trivial as the incident was, it seemed to show that the same sort of verbal
links are used in the association of ideas below as above the conscious
threshold.
Here is a case probably due to forgotten knowledge. Some friends coolly
sent me a letter addressed " Dr. Henderson " (I do not give the real names),
with orders to look for the rest in the crystal. I looked, and was rather
staggered to read, "Dr. Henderson, Taunton Gaol." I could assign no
grounds for such a libel, but on consulting a relative as to what Hendersons
we had ever known, she remembered that amongst others "there was a
Chaplain of that name at Taunton Gaol, but long before your time." In ray
pre-crystal days I could have sworn that I had never heard of this chaplain.
Iii this sacond class I miy also count the cases where the crystal has brought
a revival of some sight or word which might easily have reached my conscious
attention, but has been prevented from so doing by distraction on my part.
I give four instances of this not uncommon type.
1. I saw in the crystal a pool of blood (as it seemed to me) lying on the
pavement at the corner of a terrace close to my home. This suggested nothing
to me. Then I remembered that I had passed over that spot in the course
of a walk of a few hundred yards home from the circulating library ; and
that, the street being empty, I had been looking into the books as I
walked. Afterwards I found that my boots and the bottom of my dress were
-.tained with red paint, which I must have walked through unobservingly
The Subliminal Consciousness. 48c>
during the short trajet just described. I cannot tell which part of me it waft
that mistook paint for blood—whether it was my misinterpretation of the
crystal-picture, or a mistake in the picture itself.
2. I saw in the crystal a young girl, an intimate friend, waving to me
from her carriage, I observed that her hair, which had hung down her back
when I last saw her, was now put up in young-lady fashion. Most certainly
I had not consciously seen even the carriage, the look of which I knew very
well. But next day I called on my friend ; was reproached by her for not
observing her as she passed ; and perceived that she had altered her hair in
the way which the crystal had shown.
3. Is ext as to sounds not attended to. I was writing at an open window
and became aware that an elderly relative inside the room had said some
thing to me. But the noise of the street prevented my hearing, and a wish
to discourage conversation prevented my asking what had been said. My
ink began to run low, and I took up the inkstand to tip it. Looking into the
ink I saw a white florist's parcel as though reflected on its surface. Going-
into another room I there found the parcel in question, of which I had had no
knowledge. I returned carrying it, and was greeted with the remark, " I
told you half an hour ago to attend to those flowers ; they will all be dead."
4. A relative of mine was talking one day with a caller in the room
next to that in which I was reading, and beyond wishing that they were
further I paid no attention to anything they said, and certainly could have
declared positively that I did not hear a word. Next day I saw in a polished
mahogany table, " 1, [Earl's]-square, Notting Hill." I had no idea whose
this address might be. But some days later my relative remarked, " H.
(the caller aforesaid) has left Kensington. She told me her address the
other day, but I did not write it down." It occurred to me to ask, " Was it
1, [Earl'sJ-square ? " and this turned out to be the case.
Class III.—In these cases, and in the somewhat similar case of an
announcement of death seen in the Times i (Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 507) I
cannot prove that I could not, if I had tried, have hoard or seen the word or
object which appeared in the crystal without having previously appeared in
my consciousness. It may have been distraction, and not sheer sensory
disability, which prevented me from noticing these details. But in some
other cases—and with these I may perhaps begin my third class—I have
i I may here remind the reader of the large group of ill-understood phenomena
at present grouped together under the name of Dynamor/en;/ (Fere', Rev. H,il., XX.,
364, &c.) These are cases where either muscular power, as tested by grip of the
dynamometer, or the acuteness of some one sense, is increased by a stimulus to some
other sense. Thus the Viennese aurist Urbantschiseh (James's Psychology, II., p. 29 ;
Pfliiger'sArckiv., XLII., p. 154) finds that '' a tuning fork sounded close to the ear will
sometimes increase acuteness of vision so that letters can be read at a greater distance.
Conversely sounds became audible when lights were exhibited to the eye." Simi
larly F4r6 finds that inhealthy subjects lost after-images can be recalled by the applica
tion of a tuning fork in vibration to the top of the head (Palhologiedcs Emotions, p. 29).
So with hysterical subjects red light quickens perceptions of taste and smell. And,
in many healthy subjects an increased acuteness of vision and other senses may
be produced by hypnotio suggestion. It is the subliminal self, in my termin
ology, which has to supply this extra acuteness ; and the crystal-vision is merely
another way of getting at this reserve of power.—[F. W. H. M.]
490 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
actually tried my best to see or hear something, but failed ; and then the
crystal has shown me that something within me has been able to see or
hear at longer range than I knew.
1. From a letter, written July 1st, 1891, I take the following account : " I
looked across the room this morning to a distant table, where I expected to
see a book I wanted. It was not there, but my eye was caught by another
book which I saw was strange to me. I tried, but could not read the title
at that distance (I have since proved that, even now I know it, this is
impossible) ; and turned away to resume my writing. On my blank paper
—as in a crystal-scene—I read, ' The Valley of Lilies, ' which I found to be
the title of the book. I have no recollection of ever seeing the book before,
certainly not in this house, though it may have caught my eye in a shop.''
On July 2nd I add : " The book was brought into the house in my absence,
and placed [by a relative] on her special table, on which my things are never
put, and which, therefore, I should not necessarily glance at on entering the
room, as at my own table, for cards or letters. I did not enter the room
till after lunch and, so far as I know, went straight to my own seat, not pass
ing her table, which is in the opposite corner. The book is of rather peculiar
appearance—an imitation of wood. If I had consciously seen it in a shop I
should probably have bought it, for it purports to be by my favourite a
Kempis."
2. I give another instance in which a similar slight extension of the
power of hearing seems to be involved :—
In August, 1891, we went for a few weeks to a small country place, where
we had taken a house for the autumn, and which I had never visited before,
except once for a single day. One day a kindly neighbour called to offer us
the use of his garden during his own absence from home. As he left the
house he looked up in passing the window, and said something, of which
neither I nor a girl who was staying with me could catch a single word.
The same evening I saw in the crystal a picture of some extraordinarily
tall and bushy sweet-peas trained over wire fencing—a picture to which I
could assign no meaning. The next day we met our friend's housekeeper,
who referred to the invitation, and added, " Mr. P. says he hopes you heard
his warning not to lose yourselves among the sweet-peas " ! On visiting the
garden, I found the fencing covered exactly as the crystal had shown, the
sweet-peas, of which Mr. P. was justly so proud, having been arranged to
intercept a view of the railway.
Next above these apparent extensions of faculty—though next with a
great gap between—come the telepathic visions, where some fact quite out
of my normal cognizance seems to be flashed upon me from another mind—
a mind not necessarily thinking of me at the time. I have had several intima
tions of this sort otherwise than by crystal-vision since my last paper was
published (S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 358) ; but I think only three by
aid of the crystal.
1. A friend wrote to tell me that—acting on some suggestion of mine
—she had secured an engagement on a newspaper, adding " that she
was not obliged to fill all her columns with fashions. " This phrase suggested
the Queen, or some paper of the kind ; but the crystal on being interro
gated showed a magazine about the size of the Engli.ih Illustrated, with
The Subliminal Conscioitsness. 491
the title The Princess. I took this for a cynical joke on the part of
the crystal—a " not quite Queen." But I have since found that there is such
a paper, and that my friend is engaged on it. The look of the paper is
different from what I saw, as though the name only had been transferred
to me.
2. On October 12th, 1891, I was discussing the question of crystal-
pictures with a gentleman to whom I had been but that day introduced, and
of whose friends or surroundings I knew nothing whatever, and who was so
deeply interested in the subject that I promised to look into the crystal with
the definite hope of seeing something which he might find personally
interesting. I was rewarded by three pictures,of which one was as follows :—
A room containing a high glass screen, round the end of which came,
after a few moments, a lady, short, plump, dressed in blue serge dress, with
a short jacket, in the pockets of which she rested her finger-tips : elbows
stuck out, hair dark, dressed in a low, loose knot, fine dark eyes, and a
white sailor hat. As she walked across the picture, she turned and seemed
to look at me with some curiosity.
We had occasion a few days later to visit Mr. R.'s office on business, when
I described my pictures. No. 2, the picture above-described, he recognised
as representing his lady-secretary, though some female clerks in the office
denied that she wore a sailor hat. She was not in at the time, but he was
able to show me the glass screen in the room in which she habitually sat.
I made her acquaintance later, and found that I was, for special reasons, an
object of some curiosity to her, and also that she had had a white sailor hat,
which, only a day or two before my vision, had been blown into the Thames,
leaving her to walk down the Embankment bareheaded.
My other two visions Mr. R. regarded as also reflected from his mind
and thoughts at the time, but I had not the same degree of proof as in the
one which I have described.
3. On August 10th of this year D. went with her family to spend the
autumn at a country house which they had taken furnished, and which
neither of us had ever seen. I was also away from home, the distance
between us being at least 200 miles.
On the morning of the 12th I received a pencil note from her, evidently
written with difficulty, saying that she had been very fiercely attacked by a
savage dog, from which she and our own little terrier had defended them
selves and each other as best they could, receiving a score or so of wounds
between them before they could summon anyone to their assistance. She
gave me no details, assuming that, as often happens between us, I should
have received intimation of her danger before the news could reach me
by ordinary methods.
D. was extremely disappointed on hearing that I had known nothing. I
had not consulted the crystal on the day of the accident, and had received
no intimation. Begging her to tell mo nothing further as to the scene
of her adventure, I sought for it in the crystal on Sunday, 14th, and noted
the following details. The attacking dog was a large black retriever, and
our terrier held him by the throat while D. beat at him in the rear. I saw
also the details of D.'s dress. But all this I knew or could guess. What I
could not know was that the terrier's collar lay upon the ground, that the
492 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
struggle took place upon a lawn beyond which lay earth—a garden beii
probably—overshadowed by an aucuba bush.
On September 9th I had an opportunity of repeating all this to Mr.
Myers, and on the 10th I joined D. at their country house. The rest of the
story I give in her own words : —
"As we were somewhat disappointed that no intimation of the accident
which had occurred to me had reached Miss X, she determined to try to
call up a mental picture of the scene where it had occurred, and if possible
to verify it when visiting us later on.
" On the night of her arrival at C , we were not able to go over the
whole of the grounds alone, and it was therefore not until the following
morning that we went together for the special purpose of fixing on the exact
spot. Miss X. was in front, as I feared some unconscious sign of recogni
tion on my part might spoil the effect of her choice. The garden is a very
large one, and we wandered for some time without fixing on a spot, the sole
clue given by Miss X. being that she ' could not get the right place, it
wanted a light bush.' I pointed out several, silver maples, ,fcc, in various
directions, but none would do, and she finally walked down to the place
where the accident had occurred, close to a large aucuba (the ohIy one, I
believe, in the shrubbery), and said, ' This must be it ; it has the path and
the grass and the bush, as it should, but I expected it to be much further
from the house.'
" I may add that I was not myself aware of this bush, but as I was studying
them all at the time we were attacked by the dog, and as this one is close to
the spot where I was knocked down, it seems possible that it was the last
I noticed, and it may therefore have influenced me more than I knew."
[I understand that there are a good many acres of grounds round the
house in question, and that the dog's attack was made within 50 yards of
the house—plainly an unlikely place for a struggle so long protracted without
the arrival of help.—F.W.H.M.]
There seems no a priori reason why the induction of manageable
and instructive hallucinations should be confined to the sense of sight.
Most of the visual phenomena which led up to crystal-seeing can be
paralleled with auditory phenomena of the same types. Thus there are
light-hearers as well as sound-seers ; and illusions hyjmagogiques
sometimes take the form of auditory as well as of visual impressions. I
will not pursue the subject further until I have more experimental
cases to compare ; but I am glad to be able to start my collection with
the following communication from Miss X., whose example may I hope
be followed by others in shell-hearing as profitably as in crystal-vision.
Notes on Shell-Hearing.
M. 51.
In the course of some widely varied reading on historical methods of
divination I have found much that has seemed to me especially interesting
and suggestive among the stories of voice oracles—not the articulate utter
ances of seer or priestess, which, possibly, find their modern counterpart in
" trance mediums ".—but the more mysterious Rumour of Homer, the vocal
The Subliminal Consciousness. 493
trees of Dodonn, the Hebrew Bath Kol, the ' daughter of a voice. ' Coming
to a later date, the shell divination practised by the Thibetan Buddhists, and
by the Chinese and Hindus, presents more detail, and brings to mind the
shells of the Tritons, the shell on the Tower of the Winds at Athens, and the
stories told of the reverence for shell-sounds among the South Sea Islanders.
But still, this all seemed too remote and mysterious to turn to practical
account, and it was with a sense of special interest that I read in C. 0.
Leland's work on Gypsy Sorcery (Fisher Unwin, 1891), that to this day the
gipsies of Hungary listen for the voice of the Nivasha, or Spirit of the Air, in
the sea-shell. To read that interesting results were observed as lately as
1886 was more stimulating than even the weirdly suggestive "sound of a
going in the tops of the mulberry trees," which inspired the Israelites to
war.
I have naturally exceedingly acute and sensitive hearing, which was
developed by four years of scientific musical education, and it was with some
hope that I possessed myself of a smooth-lipped cowrie of a size convenient
to hold in the palm of the hand, applied it to my ear, and waited.
First came the monotonous murmur of the sea—familiar to childhood ; but
after a few minutes of concentrated attention the ear grew accustomed to
this sound, which, as it were, became a mere background for those more
articulate which followed.
I find the experiment decidedly more fatiguing than that of crystal-gazing,
and I did not persist on that occasion ; nor do I ever prolong the effort
beyond six or eight minutes.
After twenty experiments, I was able to tabulate results as follows :—
1. On eleven occasions I heard human voices. Theso follow each other
rapidly in the course of a single experiment, and may be divided into two
groups.
(a) Those to a greater or less degree recognisable ; sometimes coming
singly, sometimes rising out of a confused Babel of sound, with the effect
with which we are all familiar at any large gathering. These were all pro
bably recollections of something to which I had in fact listened, though often
of a kind which might not have come to the surfaco in the ordinary way.
Sometimes I have heard fairly accurate rehearsals of some conversation
recently addressed to me, or still more often, which I have overheard. For
instance, the shell is more likely after a dinner-party to repeat the conver
sation of my neighbours on the right than that of my lawful interlocutor
on the left. This, I think, has its analogy in crystal-vision—the crystal
more often presents what is unconsciously than what is consciously observed.
(6) Voices which are unrecognised and are without specially distinguishing
characteristics, and which convey information or advice which my conscious
self is—though possibly with an effort—quite ablo to supply, such as a
quotation in verse or prose, a number, an address, or a monition to write a
letter or send off a parcel.
2. On nine occasions I heard musical sounds, and I am certain that on
five of these the shell definitely supplied an aid to memory—that my shell
memory hearing transcended my ordinary memory hearing. I was able to
distinguish and readily follow—as I commonly do in a concert-room—first
one part and then another in the chorus or orchestra alternately, and
2 L
494 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
changing these at will as I can seldom do without the score, even by a
conscious effort, more than a few hours after listening to the symphony or
concerto.
It may be worth while to note that the shell does not, happily, reproduce
mere street sounds or unpleasant noise of boys and barrel-organs, though I
am exceedingly impatient of such annoyance. May it not be that, as in
crystal-vision, the fatiguo or irritation which might be a source of danger in
itself suffices to hinder the success of the experiment ?
All this, however, might be attributed, in varying degrees, to expectation,
and as such was disappointing. However, on June 3rd, a slight incident
occurred which I found encouraging.
I had been out for a couple of hours, and on returning, let myself in
with a latchkey, specially noticed that no letters or cards awaited me, and
spoko to no one before entering the drawing-room, where my friend A. sat
reading. It was close on lund\eon-time, and I took up the shell as a
momentary occupation. As I have noticed in crystal-visions, a definite
fact does not wait to be built up, but is at once thrown out, and the shell
lost not a moment in greeting me with a clear murmur of " Endsleigh-
street—Endsleigh-street," which I found absolutely unmeaning. Presently
A. looked up to remark that our friend, G. H., had called, and had waited
more than an hour on the chance of my return. " Has he come up from
Oxford for the day?" I asked, "or is he staying (as usual) near here?"
"No," said A., "he has taken rooms in Endsleigh-street." So far as I
know I have never been in such a street in my life, and I have absolutely no
association with the name. I could hardly suppose the coincidence to be
merely accidental.
A few days later I received further encouragement. On Saturday,
.Tune 11 th, Mr. G. A. Smith spent some time with us attempting somc
thought-transference experiments, which were fairly successful, and interested
mo greatly. Mr. Smith left the house soon after seven. After dinner, I
took up the shell which had played some part—not very successfully—in our
experiments. What occurred is best given in the following extracts
" [June 11th, 1892] Saturday Evening, 8.30. [X to G. A. S.]
" Why—when the shell was repeating to me just now what you said about
clambering over rocks at Ramsgate—did it stop suddenly to ask,still in your
voice, ' Are you a vegetarian then ? ' . . . Perhaps you dined at [your
next appointment], and declined animal food ? Do tell me whether you
are responsible for this irrelevance."
" June 13th, Mondag. [G.A.S. to X.]
"... Without doubt the shell spoke the truth. ... As you know, I
left you soon after 7. After walking some 15 minutes I suddenly met Mr. M.
... I was thinking about points in connection with the experiments we
had been engaged in, and am afraid I did not follow his remarks very closely
. . . but he made someallusion to little dishes at a vegetarian restaurant some
where, and immediately feeling an interest in the question whether he was
a champion of the vegetarian cause, I interrupted him with ' Are you
The Subliminal Consciousness. 495
a vegetarian then ? ' I believe these are the exact words I used. Ho will be
sure to remember this, and must be questioned."
" June 23rd. [G. A. S. to X.]
" I have to-day walked over the course which I took on June 11th, from
[your house] to the spot where I met Mr. M. It took just 11 minutes. If
I left you at 7.15, it was probably about 7-30, or a very few minutes later,
that I put the query to Mr. M."
Mr. M. was away from home, and though at once applied to for corro
boration, did not send a written statement till June 22nd, when he writes
to Mr. Smith (after failing to recall the exact particulars of the previous
conversation) :—
'' The main fact remains that you asked me, to the best of my belief—
bearing on my strong praise of the cooking at the Oxford-street CafcS—whether
'I was a vegetarian.' That is the core of the whole matter, and that is
sound."
The very triviality and grotesqueness of the incident suggests points for
speculation outside of its connection with shell-hearing, which, however,
affords a curious example of a means of arriving at unexpected knowledge.
I have since recorded about fifty further experiments, but those already
described may be taken as typical of the whole series. Not above half-a-
dozen could be counted as evidences of telepathy, perhaps twenty may be
classed among recrudescent memories which might never otherwise have
been brought to light, and another dozen may be considered the result of
mere expectation. The remainder have all consisted of musical sounds, some
of which have been purely fanciful. These have been very definite in
character, so much so that I have succeeded in reproducing them on the
piano, or in scoring them at the moment, but they in no way differ from what
I might extemporise in the ordinary way.
On two occasions only have I heard reasonable consecutive sentences for
which I could not at the time account in connection either with memory or
imagination, but in both cases I ultimately discovered their origin ; the one
in a book, the other on the fourth sheet of a letter which I had supposed to
be finished on the third, but which I might conceivably have read in taking
the letter from its envelope, though I cannot remember having done so.
I have as yet no other examples of the deliberate induction of
.auditory hallucinations by shell-hearing or any similar artifice. But
this externalisation of inward auditions could doubtless be cultivated
in the same way as crystal vision,—of which, indeed, it formed an
accompaniment in the case above cited from Professor Janet. I should
not wish at present to recommend the practice except to thoroughly
sound and strong persons, as the frequency of insistent voices as an
early symptom of insanity rather suggests that induced voices may be
less easy to keep in check than induced visions have thus far proved to
be. At the same time, I have known several sane and healthy persons
who have experienced spontaneous externalised voices, either rarely or
frequently, with no resulting injury. One of these was the late Rev.
2 L 2
49G Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
P. H. Newnham, so often cited in these Proceedings, and assuredly-
one of the sanest and calmest of men. Some discussion of this topic
will )mi found in Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 305. I will content myself
here with citing two cases,—the first curiously parallel to Miss X's
case of the sweet-peas, given above, as implying a slight subliminal
extension of the auditory field ; and the second, as I construe it,
illustrating that revival of forgotten memories of which mention has
so often been made.
The first case consists of a letter from Mr. Newnham, written about
1884:—
L. *
C
Owing to my spinal malady, I am sometimes obliged to use two walking-
sticks ; and can only crawl up the steep hills of this parish with much diffi
culty and pain. One winter evening (probably in December, 1882) I was
creeping home about 5 p.m., when I saw in the distance a lot of some
20 young apprentices from the boatyard in my parish coming home after
the day's work. Instantly the voice said to me, "They are saying, 'Here
comes old Four-legs.' " Sure enough, as they'passed me, one said, "There
goes old Four-legs." Now, I had never heard this nickname before, or
imagined anything like it.
This last is, of course, simply a case of thought-transference, identifying
itself with the voice as its vehicle. I am not quite sure whether the words
were spoken to me ab extra in this case. My memory is not quite clear.
This may, as Mr. Newnham supposes, have been a case of thought-
transference. But I rather incline to suppose that the hoys were
uttering the words just out of "earshot," but within the subliminal
auditory field. I need hardly add that an incident so incapable of
external corroboration derives its value from the known care and
accuracy of the percipient—one of the best informants whom we have
ever encountered.
The next case is from an informant of whom we know less, and has
twice been printed in part ; once in the Blackburn Times, soon after the
event, and once in the Review of Reviews. We have now obtained an
important corroboration ; and the date of the incident has been ap
proximately fixed in September or October, 1883. Mr. Wolstenholme
writes to Professor Sidgwick from 62, King-street, Blackburn,
December 3rd, 1891 :—
P. 143.
A few years ago, at tho time the following incident occurred, I was
residing at 4 and 6, Preston New-road, Blackburn.
After explaining a call of business which summoned him to Preston, Mr.
Wolstenholme continues :—
At that time I was keoping a pony " Fanny," and as I had not much
The Subliminal Consciousness. 497
work for her I determined to drive over to Preston, a distance of nine miles.
On the morning of the trial I yoked "Fanny" to the trap in a passage
behind my house. On each side of the passage is a wall about eight feet
high, the wall on one side forming the boundary to the backs of the houses,
the wall on the other side forming the boundary to a largo wood yard. I
had everything ready for starting on my journey, and had gone into the
houso for a knee-rug and my whip. When I returned with these articles,
and was standing in tho trap arranging the rugs, &e., I heard what sounded
like the voice of a man speaking within a foot of my oars these words :
"Put some string in your pocket." I immediately turned round to see who
was speaking, but to my surprise there was no one in the passage or any
where in tho neighbourhood.
A cab-stand is in tho open street at the bottom of the passage, and
thinking it must be one of the " cabbies " who had spoken, I got out of the
trap and went to the bottom of the passage to see who tho person was. The
cab-stand was empty, not a cab about, and the only person I could see was
a lady who was 70 or 80 yards up the street on the opposite side.
There was no one about to account for the voice, neither was there any
apparent cause that I was aware of why I should put the string in my
pocket. I went into the house again and told my wife what I had heard.
Her reply was, " Well, take some string with you, it will bono great weight
to carry," so I put several yards in my pocket.
I arrived in Preston all right, and drove to the Dog Hotel, and gave
"Fanny" into the hands of the ostler. After the trial was over we all
returned to the "Dog" to tea, and at 20 minutes to 9 I commenced my
journey home. The night was very dark, but as I had good lamps with
me I did not heed the darkness. "Fanny" trotted along the road at a
brisk speed, and all was going on well, when suddenly she stopped, and
no matter how I used the whip or coaxed her she would not stir another
step forward, but began to back until she backed the trap into the hedge
on the road side.
I jumped out, and taking one of the lamps ran to her head to see what
was the matter. I immediately found that the strap which stretches from
the horse's collar, and is secured to the bottom end of the shafts, the
trace by which the trap is dragged along, had broken inside a piece of
metal which connected it with the collar. The defect being covered by
the metal plate had escaped my observation, and I had no idea that any
thing was wrong with the harness in any part.
I removed the broken strap, and I now saw a use for the string I had in
my pocket. With it I rigged up a temporary arrangement by means of
which "Fanny" was able to take the trap and myself homo. Had I not
taken the string with mo I should have had to leave the trap on the road side
"and walk home a distance of six miles.
Who or what spoke I know not ; all I know is that the " voice " sounded
close to me, not more than a foot from my ears, and was a man's voice. The
nearest person I could see was a lady, and she was 70 or 80 yards away.
You are at liberty to use this article if you think fit.
R. WoLSTenHOLMk.
493 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
62, King-street, Blackburn,
December 30th, 1891.
I was at home on the evening of Mr. M.'s lawsuit in 1883, and dis
tinctly remember hearing my father tell my mother about the accident to the
harness. The circumstance of the warning voice made the incident very
remarkable, and one not easily forgotten ; since then I have heard both of
my parents on many occasions relate the circumstance and never have
either of them doubted that my father heard the voice.
Mary Jane Wolstenholme.
P.8.—I do not remember any accident to the harness bofore that time
and had no reason to suspect one then. R. Wolstenholme.
Mrs. Wolatenholmo is now dead, so that Miss VV.'s is the only corrobora
tion now attainable.
This case is by no means unlike the subliminal discovery of hidden ob
jects, of which we have had several examples. The weak place in the
harness, although " hidden behind a metal plate," was, perhaps, not so
completely hidden but that it may have been " unconsciously " noted.
Case III.—Miss A.
XVI.—In the next case which I propose to give at length, crystal-
vision forms but a small, and an ill-recorded, part of a long and complex
group of phenomena centering in a lady who wishes here to be known
as Miss A. I have had the privilege of an intimate acquaintance with
Miss A and her family for eight years, and have personally witnessed
many of these phenomena. But it must be remembered that I am no
longer dealing, as in the two previous cases, with records of experi
ments undertaken at my own request, and for a definite scientific
purpose. On the contrary, I have here merely been invited to hear or
to witness fragments of a continuous series of phenomena, which have
been observed only for private interest and satisfaction, and to which
Miss A and her family were long unwilling to give any kind of
publicity. I have now to thank them for permission kindly accorded
to print the following pages. But the material which has been pre
served forms but a fraction of the whole, and was not originally
selected with n view to scientific proof. In Miss A's ease, as in that
of Mr. Stainton Moses, with which I shall afterwards have to deal,
it has been to the dogmatic content of automatically written messages
that most attention has been given. That, also, is important in its
way ; but it belongs to a later stage of our inquiry. For the present I
have confined myself mainly to crystal-visions, and have asked
Miss A to reply to certain questions, and to give such instances of
veridical visions as now admit of corroboration. For convenience'
sake, I have interspersed between square brackets some notes made by
the Countess of Radnor, the friend in whose presence many of the
T/ie Subliminal Consciousness. 499
phenomena occurred, and who has revised these pages, and some
unsigned notes of my own.
M. 52.
1. Health.—I do not know if my health affects the crystal-seeing ; I am
so seldom ill that I have not tried. If I have a headache I never look in
the crystal ; but I should imagine I should seo equally well anyway.
2. Visualising Power, d-c.—I see in the crystal rrnich more distinctly than
I could ever imagine things. I am a very bad visualiser ; and when I think
of people I do so much more by the sound of their voice than by their faces
or figures. I don't think I ever imagined a group in motion in my life. I
am very short-sighted, and seldom wear glasses ; consequently, I rarely get a
clear picture of any room or scene. But when I look in the crystal I seo every
thing as clearly as though I had strong glasses on. I cannot bo sure whether
either my short sight or my visualising power is better in dreams than in
waking hours ; but I think both are better. Certainly, however, I never see
in dreams any scene at all comparable in clearness to what I see in the
crystal.
I have no artistic gift, although I have received a few lessons in drawing
and painting. I have automatically drawn flowers, figures, a snake, &c.,
much better than I can draw by conscious effort. [These drawings will be
described along with the automatic writings.]
3. Visions Apart from Crystal or Oiher Sjxxulnm.—I have sometimes,
generally as the result of effort, seen hallucinatory figures—all of them, I
believe, in some sense veridical, never mere subjective hallucinations,—stand
ing or sitting in the room. And I have, once at least, seen the room itself
alter. I saw a largo modern room change into the likeness (as shown after
wards by independent record) of what it was 200 years ago ; and I saw
persons in it who apparently belonged to that date.
[Tho history of the room was known to Lady Radnor, who attests :
" Miss A has, without looking into anything, described a room, whose history
was unknown to her, as I have reason to believe that it was 200 years ago.
It was the Long Parlour at Longford, which in 1670 was used as tho chapel.
—H. M. Radnor." Other visions of this kind will be dealt with later.]
4. First Discovery of the Power.—It is now some years since I first began
to look in the crystal. I had already written automatically, but knew nothing
of crystal-vision. I happened one day to be lunching with some friends who
talked on the subject, and said that they believed that a glass of clear water
acted in the same manner. Two or three of us looked in glasses of water,
and after a little while I seemed to see at the bottom of my glass a
small gold key. This was so distinct that I looked on tho tablecloth,
thinking that there must be a real key there. There was none, and nothing
to explain what I saw.
5. Speculum and Mode of Gazing.—We bought a glass ball, and I gradually
began to see a good deal in it. I have since seen in several crystals, in a
moonstone in a bracelet, &c. [I have known her see things in a polished
table.—H. M. Radnor.] It does not seem to matter much what the smooth
surface is ; but I have sometimes fancied that the scenes were brighter if seen
500 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
in a real crystal. Occasionally I see things in a mirror, or even without any
clear surface, as though I were in the midst of them.
I either take the crystal into a dark corner of the room, or wrap it up in
black with only a little bit uncovered, or if it is small I hold it inside my
hand and look right into it. I can see equally well in the dark. After a
minute or two I seem to see a very bright light in it, which disappears after
a few seconds, and then the surface appears cloudy and thick. This mist
clears away, and I see sometimes views, sometimes faces, sometimes letters,
and all kinds of things in it. They only last for a few seconds or sometimes
minutes, and between each new picture I see the same light and then mist.
I cannot look in the crystal for long, as it makes my eyes water with the
brightness of the light and gives me a feeling as if a band wore tied round
my head ; but if I only look a little while it does not hurt me at all. The
crystal seems to become a globe of light. If a sunlit scene appears, the
light may continue, or it may disappear before the figure shows itself. [Her
eyes often stream with tears from " the brightness of the light."—H. M.
Radnor.] I am in a perfectly normal condition when I look ; not sleepy,
nor in a trance, nor unconscious of my surroundings.
0. Magnification, &c.—I have tried the magnifying-glass. The results
are just the same as without it ; only the glass being on the top I suppose I
see in it instead of in the crystal. I cannot tell when people ask me whether
the figures which I see are big or small ; for I feel as if I were in some way
close to them ; so I cannot define their size. [I have often remarked that
when Miss A looks in the crystal she describes things not as if she saw them
in a picture, but as if she were actually there, and the places and people
were round her.—H. M. Radnor.] Before the figures come I see the
crystal in my usual short-sighted manner, so that, for instance, I could not
distinguish my own reflection in it. But the figures are quite clear ; and I
can follow a figure even if it appears to be walking to a great distance. But if
I specially look at some detail in the picture, that detail generally seems to
get clearer to me.
If I move my eyes from the crystal, or if I close my eyes, the picture
disappears. If I move the crystal about I seem to shake the picture out of
it. When the picture is once lost I can seldom get it again. Once or twice
I have succeeded in doing so, but there have always been other pictures
between.
7. Verbal Messages in the Crystal.—When I see writing in the crystal
I see it only one letter at a time ; and when the letters are put down they
are found to be words spelt backwards.
[Each letter in turn seems to fill the crystal ; and the letters succeed each
other so rapidly that it is hard to take them down from Miss A's dictation.
The words may come to explain a picture, or may form a message by them
selves. The backward spelling is probably adopted in order to prevent
Miss A's supraliminal intelligence from guessing at, and thereby disturbing,
the message which is being given.]
8. General Clinracteristics of the Pictures.—Sometimes the things which
I see are interesting, and sometimes just the reverse ; sometimes true and
sometimes not. If I wish to see a particular person, I cannot do so, but I
probably see something quite different. I cannot tell if what I am seeing is
The Subliminal Consciousness. 501
past, present, or future. I do not think that the pictures have anything to
clo with what I read and see in the ordinary way.
[I can expand this statement from personal observation. When Miss A
looks in crystal or ring there is almost always a continual series of pictures,
each generally quite disconnected from its predecessor, although
occasionally several scenes of the same story may follow each other. No
complete record has been made of these pictures ; and therefore in
estimating the probability that the coincidence which somo of them show
with fact is not due to chance alone, we can make no exact calculation of
percentages ; but after making the Largest reasonable allowance for the cases
in which no coincidence has been observed, it appears to me that in many
instances the details seen, and the verbal explanations automatically given,
are so full and precise that accident cannot be invoked to explain them. The
unintelligible pictures, on the other hand, remind one of a series of views
thrown on the table of a camera obscura ; but whether the views come from
the macrocosm or the microcosm, from the solid world or from the subliminal
imagination, there is generally nothing to show.]
!). [Let us consider the cases which have a prima facie claim to bo
veridical. These may represent scenes past—beyond the range of hyper-
mnesia,—scenes present—whether derived from another mind cognisant of
them, or from some kind of direct extended perception ; and possibly things
future ;—although (besides Lady Barnby's case given below) only one appa
rently clear case of precognitive picture—foretelling a death then absolutely
unexpected—has been observed.
Inasmuch as telepathy and clairvoyance are ideas less unfamiliar than
either retrocognition or precognition, it may be well to take first some pictures
of events soon about the time of their occurrence. Such record of these as
I can offer at present is unfortunately extremely incomplete. Miss A has
never made a continuous series of experiments with a friend at a distance,
and has no belief that deliberate experimentation of this kind would succeed.
Yet, on the other hand, Miss A herself and her family have naturally been
reluctant to test the accuracy of pictures which professed to relate to
strangers,—who either might not exist or might dislike the inquiry. There
is, nevertheless, no reason to suppose that the subliminal self is less regard
ful of others than the supraliminal ; nor have pictures, I think, ever occurred
whose possible verification could have caused pain. Just as in the hypnotised
subject the feeling of the bieivs&inces seems the most persistent element of
character, so also among all the incoherences of automatic message by script
or vision a certain control of this kind seems to be exercised by the hidden
agency. Returning to the present case, the result of the limitations above
mentioned is that I can hardly quote more than the few instances where
Lady Radnor happens to have been able to identify the scene from her own
experience or that of friends.]
A. Picture of scene probably passing at the moment.
Some time ago I was looking in my crystal and saw Lady Radnor sitting
in a room I had never seen, in a big red chair ; and a lady in a black dress
and white cap whom I had never seen came in and put her hand upon Lady
R.'s shoulder. It was about 7.30, I think. I immediately, that same evening,
wrote to Lady R. to ask her to write down what she was doing at 7.30, as I
502 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
had seen her in the crystal. Shortly afterwards I saw Lady R., and she said
she had done as I askod her, and told me to tell her what I saw. It was quite
right ; she had been sitting in a red armchair, and Lady Jane E. , dressed as I
described her, had come in and put her hand on her shoulder. Afterwards,
when I met Lady Jane E., I recognised her, without knowing who she was,
as the lady I had seen. Also, when I went to the house I recognised the
chair.
[This is perfectly correct. Miss A had never been to Longford when
she described my room, which was right in every particular, even to the fact
that my chair was quite touching the corner of the high fender.—H. M.
Radnor.]
[Lord Radnor tells me that he remembers the incident perfectly. The
chair was of a kind unusual in a bedroom. The description of the lady
entering was right as to personal appearance as well as dress.]
B. Second cordempoi aneous scene.
In one case I saw and described Mr. B (a well-known writer), whom I
knew slightly, as hunting for a paper in the drawers of a writing-table. He
used a particular pen, which I described, and with his hands ruffled his hair
till it stood up in a kind of halo. A lady came in and pointed to his hair and
laughed. Lord Radnor inquired of Mr. B, and all this was found to be
correct. He was writing with a pen unusual to him (silver instead of quill,
or vice versa), and was looking for a paper which he wanted to send by post.
His sister (I did not know that she lived with him, and had never seen her)
entered the room, and pointed laughing to his hair, just as I had seen.
[Confirmed.—H. M. Radnor.]
A group of cases may here conveniently be given together, as included
m the same narrative. Case C is probably exactly contemporaneous. Case
D also seems contemporaneous. Case E is retrocognitive, and case F seems
precognitive.
C. Sir Joseph Barnby, the well-known musician, writes as follows :—
November, 1892.
I was invited by Lord and Lady Ridnor to the wedding of their daughter,
Lady Wilma Bouverie, which took place August 15th, 1889.
I was met at Salisbury by Lord and Lady Radnor and driven to Longford
Castle. In the course of the drive, Lady Radnor said to me : "We have a
young lady staying with us in whom, I think, you will be much interested.
She possesses the faculty of seeing visions, and is otherwise closely connected
with the spiritual world. Only last night she was looking in her crystal and
described a room which she saw therein, as a kind of London dining-room.
[The room described was not in London but at L., and Miss A particularly
remarked that the floor was in large squares of black and white marble—as it
is in the big hall at L., where family prayers are said.—H. M. Radnor.]
With a little laugh, she added, ' And the family are evidently at prayers, the
servants are kneeling at the chairs round the room and the prayers are
being read by a tall and distinguished-looking gentleman with a very hand
some, long grey beard.' With another little laugh, she continued : ' A
lady just behind him rises from her knees and speaks to him. He puts
her asido with a wave of the hand, and continues his reading. ' The young
The Subliminal Consciousness.
lady here gave a careful description of the lady who had risen from her
knees.
Lady Radnor then said: "From the description given, I cannot help
thinking that the two principal personages described are Lord and Lady L.,
but I shall ask Lord L. this evening, as they are coming by a later train,
and I should like you to be present when the answer is given."
That same evening, after dinner, I was talking to Lord L. when Lady
Radnor came up to him and said : " I want to ask you a question. I am afraid
you will think it a very silly one, but in any case I hope you will not ask mo
why I have put the question 1 " To this Lord L. courteously assented. She
then said : "Were you at home last night? " He replied, "Yes. " She said :
"Were you having family prayers at such a time last evening?" With a
slight look of surprise he replied, "Yes, we were." She then said: "During
the course of the prayers did Lady L. rise from her knees and speak to you,
and did you put her aside with a wave of the hand?" Much astonished,
Lord L. answered: "Yes, that was so, but may I inquire why you have
asked this question?" To which Lady Radnor answered : " You promised
you wouldn't ask me that ! "
D. The day following was the day of the wedding, and at a dinner party
held in the evening my attention was called by Lady Radnor to Miss A, who-
seemed to be listening to something. On inquiring the cause, Lady Radnor
asked me " If I had not heard the raps," as she supposed Miss A "was
receiving a message."
I had not heard the raps, but I begged to be made acquainted as soon
after dinner as possible with the purport of the message.
On rejoining tho ladies, I inquired at once what the message might be ?
Lady Radnor replied : " The message is somewhat mysterious and there is a
portion of it we cannot make out, but the general purport is : ' There is danger
in the —— reservoir belonging to the Liverpool Waterworks Company.'"
About twenty minutes later the additional message was rapped out : "The
danger is in the left-hand corner." Here I laughed the laugh of the scornful,
and remarked : " There is a beautiful vagueness about that, seeing that it
depends entirely upon which side of a parallelogram you stand before you
can determine the left-hand corner ! " Four days later [According to my
recollection (too days later only.—H. M. Radnor.] a paragraph appeared in
most of the London dailies to the effect that the inhabitants of were in
a state of considerable alarm on account of some signs of weakness having
appeared in the [Welsh] reservoir belonging to tho Liverpool Waterworks
Company. They had sent a deputation to the company requesting that an
expert should be got down from London to examine the defect. Needless to
say, Miss A had never heard of the name of the place, "an unpronounceable
Welsh name," had no interest in that part of the country, and had never
been in the neighbourhood.
E. Two days after the wedding I was driven by Lady Radnor and Miss A to
Salisbury Cathedral to play on the organ, a magnificent specimen of cathedral
organs. I was much interested in tho instrument and became absorbed in my
playing. At the end of two hours I rejoined the ladies, who had been sitting
in the body of the vast church. On our drive back to Longford, Lady
Radnor asked Miss A why she was so silent and thoughtful, to which Miss A
504 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
answered : " I have had such strange experiences in the Cathedral during the
time Mr. Barnby was playing." On being asked to relate them, Miss A
begged to be excused until she arrived at the Castle, as the grinding of the
carriage wheels over the newly metalled roads made it difficult to hear one
another speak.
Whether this promise was forgotten, or whether callers put it out of her
head, I cannot say, but I left Longford without hearing any more of the
matter. Eleven months later Lady Radnor, during a call upon my wife, told
me the following : " Miss A's statement was to the effect that she had seen
vast processions of gorgeously apparelled Catholic ecclesiastics with jewelled
crosses carried before them, gorgeous canopies and baldachinos held over
them and clouds of incense filling the place. Amongst the dignitaries was
one who came near them and gazed at them with a singularly sad expression
of countenance. On being asked why ho looked so sad, he said : " I have
been a great sinner. I was greatly responsible for the beheading of Anne
Boleyn. What adds to the sadness of it, her father and I were boys together,
and our homes were in close proximity to each other." On being asked his
name, he said : " My name is John Longland." On being further questioned
he replied : "Mr. Barnby's music brought me here. I often hear it in
Eton Chapel."
Lady Radnor then went on to say : " I was naturally desirous of finding
out who this John Longland might be, but after several unsuccessful efforts
I was beginning to despair of solving the mystery, when, five months later, I
found it recorded in a long, thin, worm-eaten book [I found the book in an old
lobby cupboard at Longford. It was there recorded that John Longland had
been Dean of Salisbury in the reign of Henry VIII., and also that he had
been translated to the See of Lincoln.—H. M. Radnor.] containing the name
of John Longland, Dean of Salisbury in the reign of King Henry the Eighth."
This was sufficiently extraordinary ; but on my inquiring what connection he
had with Eton, her ladyship remarked that she had already told me all she
knew. Thereupon I said, "I wonder if he is mentioned in Maxwell Lyte's
History af Eton College ? " and I rose at once to get the book. There I
found he was mentioned on pages 103 and 124 as having been Dean of
Salisbury and Confessor to King Henry the Eighth. He was soon translated
to the more dignified see of Lincoln, which carried with it the appointment
of "Visitor to Eton College." It appears that during one of his visits he
called upon the Fellows to make up their number which had fallen from 10
to 7(?) (See Maxwell Lyte's Historg.) This they explained they were unable
to do as the value of their property had decreased and they were conse
quently unable to pay their full number. The Bishop came forward with the
necessary funds. He likewise gavo largely to the other members of the
college, the ministers of the "queero," and even the bell-ringers were not
forgotten ; and by his will ho left money for the annual performance of a
requiem Mass on each anniversary of his death, and gave instructions like
wise that his heart should be buried "afore the holy aultar in Lincoln
Cathedral and his body in Eton College Chapel." All of which was done.
His grave at Eton was covered by a magnificent brass, which, by an act of
vandalism, was destroyed about 200 years ago. Here, then, is the explana
tion of his connection with Eton and his love of music.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 505
F. One more incident in connection with the extraordinary powers of this
young lady remains to be noted. Whilst looking in her crystal during one
of the days I spent at Longford, she described, amongst a number of things
unnecessary to mention, a room which appeared to her to be a bedroom.
She appeared to be viewing the room from just outside the open door, for she
said : "If there be a bed in the room it must be behind the door on the
left " ; in any case the room was a long one and the end of it was occupied
by a large window which formed the entire end of the room. She added :
"There is a lady in the room, drying her hands on a towel." She described the
lady as tall, dark, slightly foreign in appearance and with rather "an air"
about her. This described with such astonishing accuracy my wife, and
the room she was then occupying at an hotel at Eastbourne, that I was im
pelled to ask for particulars as to dress, &c. She stated that the dress was
of serge with a good deal of braid on the bodice and a strip of braid down
one side of the skirt. This threw me off the scent, as before I had started
for Longford my wife had expressed regret that she had not a serge dress
with her. My astonishment, therefore, was great on returning to East
bourne to find my wife wearing a serge dress exactly answering to the
description given above. The sequel to this incident comes some sixteen
months later on, when my wife and I attended a performance given by the
Magpie Minstrels (a society of musical amateurs) at Princes' Hall, Piccadilly.
We arrived early, and after placing my wife in a seat I moved about the
room speaking to friends here and there. In the course of ten minutes or
ho, Lady Radnor and Miss A entered the room. During tho greetings
which ensued, Miss A called my attention to a standing figure, saying :
"You will remember my seeing a lady in her bedroom while looking in
my crystal ; that is the lady I saw." That too* my wife! I only need add
that she had never seen my wife. Joseph Barnby.
Lady Barnby writes as follows in corroboration of the incident relating
to her own dress :—
9, St. George's-square, S.W.
Saturday, November 12lh, 1892.
The account about me and my dress is remarkable as being out of the
general course of things in this way : I had been remarking to Sir Joseph
that it was a mistake to come to the seaside without a serge dress, that being
a material particularly suited for wear at the seasido, but I added : " I do not
think there is much use in ordering one now, as Madame D. will be gone for
her holiday, it being August." Sir Joseph left tho next day for Longford,
and I wrote to Madame D., telling her to make me this gown. She got the
letter Tuesday [August 13th, 1889], and in the marvellously short time by
Saturday, I received my gown. Then again, it is not usual in an hotel
to have one's bedroom door open when one is occupying tho room,
but the reason for it on this occasion was the fact that I was to meet
Sir Joseph on his return from Longford [Tuesday, August 20th] (as a
•urprae in this new serge gown) and having no clock in our bedroom, which
was at the end of the corridor, with my daughter's room at an angle to ours,
where she slept with her maid, I—thinking I was somewhat late for meeting
the train—opened the door to call to the maid to tell me the time as I washed
506 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
my hands standing at the washhand-stand in a line with the open door. I
clo not suppose I have ever done such a thing at an hotel before or since.
Edith Mary Barney.
[These dates have been confirmed by Lady Barnby from her diary. Lady
Barnby also tells me that her nurse confirms the little incident of the
wearing of the serge dress first on August 20th. The crystal-scene, there
fore, seems to have anticipated a certain definite moment, which happens
to have been well remembered. But, of course, each apparently precognitive
•case must be judged in connection with all the rest. See Proceedings,
Vol. V., p. 288.]
E. In February, 1890, Lady Radnor gave me the following independent
account of the Longland incident. Sir J. Barnby had not seen this account
when his was written (in November, 1892) :—
" In August, 1889, when Mr. Barnby was here (from Eton College) Miss
A had some writing of that kind which can only be road reflected in a
looking - glass, and written in a curling, snake-like way, from John
Longland, who said he was brought through tho influence of Mr. Barnby,
whoso beautiful music he heard at Eton as he was buried there. He wished
to say that ho had written letters to his friend Anne Boleyn's father, and
that it was owing to him in great measure that Henry VIII. divorced
Catherine, married Anno, and afterwards beheaded her, &c. Unfortunately
these papers were destroyed. As inquiries having been made at Eton, and no
tomb of John Longland found, again we thought we had been misled. Next
time, in August, 1889, he came at the Cathedral, announcing his presence by
raps :
Q. Who are you ? A. John Longland. Q. What were you ! A. Dean
of Salisbury. Q. When 1
3
A. 15(19) ? (39) ? Could not quite ma&e out which.
" We could not find out anything about John Longland [by inquiries at
Eton], and though he came many times we thought it unsatisfactory and
would not listen to him.
"This morning, February 24th, 1890, I was looking through a list
of tho Deans of Salisbury Cathedral (History of Salisbury Cathedral :
Dodsworth, 1815). I found [Appendix III.] that in 1514 a.d. John
Longland teas Dean of Salisbury and was made Bishop of Lincoln
in 1521. [He was made Henry VIII.'s Confessor in 1519, accord
ing to Chalmers' Biographical Dictionary.] I then turned to Brit-
ton's History of Lincolnshire and found on page 623 that ' John Longland,
Dean of Salisbury, was consecrated May 3rd, 1521. A man of learning, but
generally blamed for taking advantage of his situation as Confessor to Henry
VIII. to promote tho divorce between that monarch and his Queen
Catherine. . . . Dying at Woburn, he was privately interred in Eton
College Chapel.'"
[These cases suggest a few remarks. Case C (Lord L. at prayers). —This
incident has been independently recounted to me both by Lady Radnor and
by Miss A herself. Another small point not given by Sir J. Barnby is that
Miss A did not at first understand that family prayers were going on, but
The Subliminal Consciousness. 507
exclaimed: "Here .are a number of people coming into the room. Why,
they're smelling their chairs ! " This scene may have been exactly contem
poraneous. If we assume any intelligent guidance of all this subliminal
cognition, this is one of the few scenes which seem to have been presented
expressly for the purpose of verification ; but the verification, of course,
depended upon Lady Radnor's presence. Nor does it appear that any
indication is given as to when a message will prove verifiable. The pictures
seem to come at haphazard, and no' wishing or asking for "tests" will secure
them.
Case D.—The intimation of danger in certain waterworks was not given
by crystal-vision and is only inserted here as forming part of Sir J. Barnby's
account. The difficult question as to the nature of so-called "raps" may
bo deferred till the next chapter. But it must be noted that they have
occurred at intervals throughout Miss A.'s experiences, and in close connection
with crystal-gazing or automatic writing. The messages thus communicated
do not appear to be in themselves either more or less trustworthy than those
which are written or seen in the crystal.
Case E.—This case, again, I give here as forming a part of Sir J. Barnby's
account. For the present we may assume that the scone or figure here
presented was analogous to a crystal-vision, although seen without a speeulum,
and under the aspect of reality. I hope to discuss the possible explanations
of retrocognitive scenes in a future paper, when we come to deal with retro-
cognitive written messages.
[Three more cases connected with Salisbury Cathedral may be added here.]
Aug., Sept., 1889, & Feb., 1890. In the presence of myself.—H. M. Radnor.
G. Retrocognitive Scene.
The first time Miss A went to the Cathedral she noticed standing in the
door of the chapel opposite the "Cage" (or Hungerford Chapel), a monk,
dressed in dull sort of muddy brown i with a knotted cord round his waist,
a sort of tippet and hood, and something white, either cloth or flesh (?)
where the hood or tippet was not drawn close. He carried in his hands a
brown rosary and silver (?) cross hanging to it.
Subsequently she saw a good many of them apparently filing out of the
door of the chapel, and back again, holding books and rosaries. The cross
of the rosary was rather a peculiar shape.
She has seen these monks nearly every time she has been to the Cathedral,
and one gave his name one day by raps, but owing to the fact that the
Bishop and the head verger both said that no order of monks had ever been
connected with the Cathedral, we thought that perhaps it was an hallucina
tion. Yesterday, however, February 23rd, 1890, Miss A again saw the monks,
and asked what Order they belonged to ; the answers were by raps.
Q. : What Order do you belong to ? A. : St. Francis d'Assisi. Q. : Do
you mean Franciscans 1 A. : Yes. Q. : Did you live here 1 A. : No. Q.
Where then ? A. : Palace.
' In Steven's Continuation of Dugdale'i Monasticon there is a plate of a Franciscan
.which exactly corresponds with what Miss A saw. We only found this afterwards.
508 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Having obtained this clue, on my return home I looked in Britton's History
of Wiltshire, and found on an uncut page that there had been a Monastery
of Groyfriars (Franciscans) at the S.E. corner of the Cathedral (where the
Palace and grounds now are), and that Bishop Poore gave them the land.
Tho present Bishop has just unearthed from the cellars of the Palace a
beautiful vaulted crypt room, which was supposed to exist in or previous to
the time of Bishop Poore. This is a curious coincidence, and may have been
where the Greyfriars lived. Sir Richard Colt Hoare mentions that there
existed an Order of Friars taking their name from St. Francis d'Assisi,
who were settled at Salisbury.
II. Retroeognitive .S'cene. (Brian Duppa.)
On February 23rd, 1890, Miss A and I were in the "Cage" and
she told mo she saw a grand ceremonial taking place. There appeared
to be a tall chair which obstructed the view down the choir, and
gradually the place appeared filled with clericals and others dressed in their
best attire. Then she saw a tall big man, slowly walking up, dressed in red
with white and lace over it, something that hung round his neck and down
to his feet of broad gold embroidery, and a broad sort of mitre (but not peaked)
more like a biretta, of beautiful embroidery.
Then there were throo or four dressed very much like him, gorgeously
dressed, and lots of little boys about in red and white and lace—holding
candles, books, Ac. The whole place was very full of people, and it was
evidently a great occasion. After the principal figure had knelt in front of
the chair—looking to the west for somo little time—he stood up and ten
little boys lifted up the chair, and carried it higher up and placed
it in front of tho altar, still facing west. Then the principal figure
walked up two steps and faced the east. (The whole of the arrangements
of the altar, &c., aa Miss A saw them, are quite different from what they are
now.) [It is hero meant that Miss A.'s description was correct for that past
date ; as Lord Radnor explicitly told me was the case.] He had nothing on
his head now. He knelt some little timo, and then the most gorgeously
dressed of the other figures placed something like a mitre on his head and
retired, and the principal figure walked up to the chair, and sat down on it
facing the congregation. Miss A said she saw him later dead in a coffin,
with the Winchester Cross over him. She says he was tall, big, clean
shaven, a little curling hair, and blue-grey oyes.
Miss A asked what she was seeing, and the answer came by raps.
A. : Tho induction of Briant Uppa.
Then Miss A said : There can't be such a name ; it must be wrong.
She tried again, and got—
A. : You are wrong. It is Duppa, not Uppa. Brian Duppa. Q. : Who
was Brian Duppa 1 A. : Cluster. Q. : What was he 1 A. : Bishop here.
Q. : When 1 or what was his date ? A. : 44-16. His researches would
help you. Manuscripts should lay at Winchester.
On returning home, we were talking after tea, and I casually took uri
Britton's History of Wiltshire, and said to Miss A, laughing : "Now I will look
for your Bishop." . . . The pages where the Bishops' names were were
The Subliminal Consciousness. 509
uncut, sides and top. I cut them, and to our delight we found on p. 149 :—
" Brian Duppa or De Uphaugh, D.D. . . . tutor to Prince Charles
. . . . translated to the See of Chichester (Cluster ?).... Bishop
of 1641 .... (deposed soon after by Parliament) .... pre
ferred soon after the Restoration to the See of Winchester." He was at Caris-
brooke with Charles I., and is supposed to have assisted him in the writing
of the Eikon Basilikc, which book Miss A had been looking at in my boudoir
a few days previously, but which contains no mention of him nor his name.
J. RetrocotpMive. (Rayne Stevens.)
In the "Cage" the same day that " Longland " came, August, 1889,
there were loud raps. Miss A asked who it was and got the following :—
" Rtyne Ste(v-ph ?)ens. He was the first metz-tenor in 1796. He went to
Canterbury in 1805. He received a watch from William Bouverie, Lord Folke
stone's—(?)—because he perilled his limbs to stop his horse in Salisbury."
I have been unable to verify this entirely at present, but I found an
entry in the old account-books (the first Viscount's) in 1755 :—
"Dr. Stephens for teaching Billey the Harpsichord, etc."
" Billey " was grandson to the first Viscount. The said " Billey " was M.P.
for Salisbury, and I find that according to Britton (p. 182), John Stephens,
Mus.Doc, was organist of the Cathedral, and was buried there in 1780.
He was possibly the father of Rayne, but that I have not yet made sure of.
K. Retrocognitive Scene. (White Webs.)
I was looking in the crystal a year or two ago at Longford Castle. Lady
Radnor was in the room with me. I saw amongst other things a large
carved fireplace with a coat of arms in the middle and curious serpents
entwined. There seemed to be a secret passage, which opened on touching
one of the serpents' heads. I seemed to follow this path until it led out by
a river, and I saw figures pass along it in old-fashioned dress. The name
Edwye de Bovery was then spelt out in the crystal ; and Lady Radnor said
that the vision must bo .all wrong, as the name had never been spelt like that.
The name " White Webs " was also spelt out—a name of which I had never
heard. A few days afterwards, when I was looking at some books in the
library I saw a curious old book with crests and coats of arms, drawn by
hand, not printed ; and in this book I found one of the coats of arms which
I had seen in the crystal ;—only the one in the book was quartered with
another, and the one I saw in the crystal was quite by itself. Lady Radnor
found that it was the coat belonging to an heiress, a Miss Smith. A little
while afterwards, in an old church register or account-book or something, the
name of Sir Edwye do Bovery was found. [Tt was in an extract from a
parish register at Britford Church, in which parish Longford is.—H. M.
Radnor.]
[Sir Edward des Bouverie, Kt., whose name I have since found spelt
in old deeds de Bovery, though he signed it himself des Bouverie, lived
at the Red House, Cheshunt, Herts, and died there 1694. His son, Sir
William, sold the house, and lived partly at the Parsonage of Cheshunt.
There is a place called White Webs in that neighbourhood. Sir Edward's
grandson, Edward des Bouverie, sold the property and settled at Longford in
2 M
510 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
1717. In 1718 he married Mary Smith, daughter and co-heiress of John
Smith of London, one of the 'first Governors of the Bank of England.
There were many secret passages leading to and from the Red House at
Cheshunt ; but I have not tried to identify the house at White Webs.—H.
M. Radnoe. June 9th, 1892.] [Miss Porter reports that she cannot find a,
list of the owners of White Webs. "An old hjstorical mansion with secret
passages, and mysterious underground accommodation, was taken down to
wards the end of last century."]
L. Retrocognitive Scene. ("Jolly Dick Scrope.")
On June 28th, 1892, Miss A met for the first time the Hon. Percy Wynd-
ham at Lady Radnor's. A scene and then writing appeared in the crystal,
which was repeated to me verbally by Lord Radnor on July 1st, 1892, with
the ambiguity between Prince and King below mentioned by Lady Radnor.
A scene of festivity appeared, with persons in old-fashioned dress ; and then
the message (as written by Lady Radnor, July 8th) "Jolly Dick Scrope with
his Prince (or King) bluff Harry, at the wedding of his daughter Nell.''
" Then thinking that it might have taken place in Wiltshire [where Scropes
are neighbours of Wyndhams] we asked ' Where is it taking place ? ' and the
answer came, very quickly, KROY (York).—H. M. Radnor."
[In the hope of clearing the matter up, I begged Miss Porter, who is
accustomed to research in the British Museum, to search for any trace of a
Dick Scrope with a daughter Nell, at whose wedding at York Henry VIII.
was likely to have been present. Miss Porter replied (July 6th, 1892) :
"Yorkshire and Wiltshire were the haunts of the Scrope family. I spent
some time at first with the pedigrees of the Wiltshire branch, but found
no 'Dick' with daughter 'Nell.' [Enclosure with pedigree confirms
this.] Then I turned to Yorkshire, the Scropes of Bolton, and found
the following facts.
" Controversy between Sir Richard Scrope and Sir Robert Grosvenor.
Sir N. Harris Nicolas.
London, 1832.
II. Pedigree of the Family of Scrope of Bolton.
fi0 Sir Richard Scrope, Knt., Eleanor, dau. of Norman Wash-
2nd son of Sir Henry Scrope, bourne, of Worcestershire, Esq.
4th Baron Scrope of Bolton. She marr. secondly, Sir John
Wyndham, of Felbritige, co. Nor
folk. Will dated 11 "Dec. 1505 :
proved Jan. 1500. Buried in
the Austin Friars, Norwich.
Elizabeth Eleanor S c ro p e, =
dau. and co-heir,
living Dec. 1505
(Will of mother)
Sir Thomas Wyndham* Marg
of Felbrigge, co.
Norfolk. Will dated
21 Oct. 1521 ; proved
4 March 1522.
Sep Lansdowne MS. 205.
Harl. MS. 1074. § 65
* Son of Sir John, by Margjret
daugh. of John Duke of Norfolk.'
The Subliminal Consciousness. 511
My next step was to look up the Wyndhams of Felbrigge, and I found a
satisfactory connection between Sir Thomas and King Henry VIII. :—
Blomefield's Norfolk.
IV.
7 Tombs in Norwich Cathedral.
' The figure (6) shows the place where the tomb which now stands in
Jesus Chapel, marked with figure (7), was removed from ; it was
erected to the memory of Sir Thomas Windham, who was knighted by
Sir Edward Howard Lord Admiral of England in the 4th year of King
Henry VIII. at Croitou Bay in France, in which expedition he was very
serviceable, doing much towards the winning of Tournay, Turenne, and
other places ; he was Privy Councellor to that King, one of the knights
retained for his bodyguard, and vice-admiral, being son of Sir John
8 Windham of Crownthorp in Norfolk ; he was buried between his two
wives, Eleanor, daughter and co-heir of Rich. Scroop of Upsale, Esq.,
and Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Henry Wentworth of Letheringham
(widow of Sir Roger Darcy of Danbury in Essex. VIII., p. 113) and died
about 1521.
The following entry was found on consulting the " Letters and Papers in.
the reign of Henry VIII."
J. S. Brewer, London, 1863.
54 4 Aug. (399) For Elizabeth Darcy, widow of Roger Darcy,
1509 and Thomas Wyndham. Licence to marry.
Sunninghill, 1 Aug., 1 Hen. VIII. Del.
Oxford, 4 Aug.
Eleanor Scrope was dead before Henry was king, for in 1509 Thomas
Wyndham obtained a licence to marry his second wife, Elizabeth Darcy.
And from the Testam-cnta Elioracensia (Durham, 1865 : Surtees Society) III.,
297, exxii., it appears that Richard Scrope's will was proved in 1485, before
Henry VIII. was born. The sentence, therefore, given in explanation of
the picture contains an error. On the other hand it is the case that Henry
VIII. showed various favours to the Scrope family.
"As a Scrope of Bolton it seems probable that Eleanor was married at
York. But the registers of marriages in the Minster do not extend so far
back as Tudor times, and the marriage licences filed at the Diocesan Registry-
do not commence till 1661."
From these documents it appeared that the conjectured connection
between the Scrope family and Mr. Percy Wyndham depended not merely on
neighbourhood in Wiltshire, but on the fact that Nell Scrope's husband was
a Wyndham. I wrote to Mr. Wyndham asking as to his connection with
Sir Thomas, and received reply dated Clouds, Salisbury, July 12th, 1892 :—
" Sir Thomas was my direct ancestor. There has never been but one family
of the Wyndhams, and beyond one or two actors and actresses who have
taken the name, it has never been usurped." [The Windhams&reH different
family altogether.]
This case is remarkable because the theory of unconscious memory on the
seer's own part is practically excluded. On the other hand it is of course
probable that Mr. Wyndham had at some time known of the Wyndham-
Scrope marriage, temp. Henry VII., although he had so completely forgotten
the fact when the message came. We cannot positively assert that the
2 m 2
512 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
knowledge may not have passed from Mr. Wyndham's subliminal self to Miss
A's, and assumed the dramatic form of "Jolly Dick Scrope," &c In the
pedigree of the A family, given in the history of their county, there is
mention of the marriage of the 5th Baron Scrope (of Bolton) to the widow of
Sir Robert A, a collateral ancestor. But even assuming (as we are bound to
do) that this fact, although not consciously remembered by any of the A
family, may have at some time been known to Miss A, this brings us little
nearer to Dick Scrope, who is not mentioned in the pedigree, and whose
relationship to Lord Scrope is only to be seen in the Scrope pedigree. I
will add that Miss A has never shown any sort of interest in genealogical or
antiquarian research.
The origin or origins of these retrocognitive scenes can only be gradually
guessed at by comparing many instances. In order that the reader may at
once realise their frequent element of inaccuracy I introduce here a
message given not by the crystal but by automatic script.
Case of Jack Creasy.
On June 27th, 1891, Miss A took pencil in hand. The following notes
were made directly after the sitting, and the automatic script is in my
hands. The handwriting of the soi-disant Jack Creasy is barely legible
Mid of an uneducated type.
Much scribbling. At last, very illegibly, and many times, was written
"Jack.'
"Jack " who ? Miss A said " I daresay ' Jack the Ripper,' or some one of
that kind."
" Jock Creasg."
'What do you want ? "Help pore Marg."
Where did you live ? (Very illegible) " Fillers " (or) " Tillers Buildings."
Where? " Greenwich."
Are you in the flesh ? " No—flesh all burnt." Then a rude drawing nor
recognisable.
Were you burnt ? " Yes—piche kitl."
In Fillers' Buildings ? " In Blackwall Road."
When ? " Long—perhaps twenty month."
Was it an accident ? ' ' A wful. Mister Lennard put us to shift the mixter ;
JSoh Heal put the lightforme the pitch vat cort."
What works? "Tar."
At Greenwich ? " Yes, Blackwall Bode."
What kind of works ? " Ahot. '
Do you mean Abbot's works ? " Abots—yes—yes—Blackwall."
Were many killed ? "I know nothin."
What help do you want for Mary ? " Dont know nothin—find her—
and help her—ask after pore Jack Creasys Marg."
Is she at Greenwich ; can you give her address ?
" Cant tell—cant see—s/ie was there."
Where ? " Folios (or Fillers) Buildings—bless you."
Could get no more.
From the Registry of Deaths it was found that Jack Creasy died from
on accident, July 4th, 1889. Mr. G. A. Smith reports as follows :—
The Subliminal Consciousness. 513
July 22nd, 1891.
" The reports of the accident appeared in the Kentish Mercury, The South
Eastern Herald, Greenwich and Deptford Observer for July 12th, and accounts
of the inquest appeared in the same papers for August 2nd, 1889. Other
papers would probably contain accounts, but it would be almost impossible
to discover them, I think ; the above-named are local papers. These accounts
.are all practically alike, and there is much detail of the accident and subse
quent official inquiry ; but there is no mention in any of them of ' Pore
Mary,' ' Fullers (!) Buildings,' or 'Bob Heal.' Creasy's address is given
as 28, Lethbridge-road, Lewisham."
July 23rd.
" I went to the tar-distilling works of Messrs. Forbes, Abbot and Lennard
to-day at Ordnance Wharf, Greenwich Marshes, and saw Mr. Lennard, who
took a good deal of interest in the matter. He said Creasy had a wife who
is still living, he thinks, at 28, Lethbridge-road, and he (Lennard) had met her
and corresponded in arranging to get her boy into an orphan's asylum. He
did not know whether her name was Mary or not. He could throw no light
on Fullers (!) Buildings, nor could the workmen amongst whom he caused the
inquiry to be circulated ; nor can I after searching the directory and asking
the police.
" The works are bounded on one side by Blackwall Lane.
"The statement about Mr. Lennard putting Creasy to ' shift the mixter '
is altogether wrong. Mr. Lennard did not put him to the job—it was a part
of Creasy's routine, and there was nothing to shift. No man of the name
of Bob Heal was ever on the works. There was no question of anyone
'putting the light,' though the explosion was certainly caused by Creasy
breaking the rule by having an uncovered safety lamp. There is no such
thing as a pitch vat, so it could not get 'cort.' The accident was an
explosion caused by an escape of vapour from defective pipes becoming
ignited by a naked flame in the vicinity, viz., Creasy's uncovered Davey
•lamp." G. A. Smith.
[The description of the accident in the Kentish Mercury says that " The
night watchman told Creasy to get a little fire off the still, there being too
much heat. Twenty minutes after there was a report ; the place was in
flames, and the deceased was found fifteen or twenty yards from the still."
The verdict of the Coroner's inquest (before Mr. E. A. Carttar) gives as
cause of death : " Burns from ignition of vapour from a tar still through
defective condition of plant."
A pitch kettle is not a tar still ;—though perhaps it comes as near to it as
Piche Kitl comes to pitch kettle. And someone certainly "put the light"
where it caught the vapour, only that someone was not the mythical Bob
Heal, but Creasy himself.
One other point is worth notice. Long names of firms are generally
abbreviated in common speech ; but there seems nothing in the reports, so
far as we have seen them, to indicate that the middle name was thus used in
this case. I asked Mr. G. A. Smith what name was most used on the spot,
and he replies : "In finding out the works, those who directed me generally
.spoke of ' Forbes and Abbot's ' works, and the wharf attached to the place
514 Mr. F. W. H. Myera.
seemed Iietter known as Abbot's Wharf than hy its proper title, Ordnance
Wharf. On the whole 1 should say that the works are commonly known as
Abbot's."
M. Retrocoynitice Scene.
Mrs. A gives the following account : "In October, 1886, my daughter
saw in the stone in her bracelet a scene which considerably impressed me,
as it was one which I at once identified, while I was absolutely sure that I
had never mentioned it to her or to any of my children. She saw a man in
a barge-like boat with a very large gun fixed in it, the object of which she
could not understand. The man was alone and lying in the bottom of the
boat, and this also puzzled her. Waves seemed to get up, and the man
rowed extremely hard, as though trying to get to shore. Then she saw
him throw himself down motionless on to the low beach, as if dead. Now
this plainly refers to a sad crisis in my father's life. He went out duck-
shooting alone on a Norfolk Broad, with an opening to the sea. A storm
got up and he was all but blown out to sea. He was a very strong man,
and by great exertion he got to land. Then ho threw himself down
absolutely spent ; and the exhaustion of that day was the beginning of
an illness which ultimately killed him."
N. Retrocognitive Vision. (Strafford.)
Lady Radnor writes, February 23rd, 1890, from Longford Castle,
Salisbury : " [Miss A] has been with me now for three weeks ; but the fact
is she sees and hears so many things that we really can't keep pace with
them all in the matter of chronicling. The most interesting thing we have
had, I think, is that she has several times seen in the crystal and at
" sittings " a figure purporting to be Lord Strafford (the one executed by
Charles I.), who declares that a paper signed by Henrietta Maria about
himself is hidden in this house. He keeps on saying, ' Find the Queen's
seal. ' Oddly enough, since this occurred I have found a scrap of paper in
the late Lady Radnor's handwriting, mentioning the things in Queen
Elizabeth's cabinet, and amongst others there is a deed or document signed
by Henrietta Maria and the great officers of her household, including the
Keeper of the Queen's Great Seal. This paper is nowhere to be found now,
though the other articles are all there as named in the list. The figure says
the paper had to do with his (Strafford's) release."
In reply to my questions Lady Radnor further writes, February 25th :
" By no possibility could [she] have seen the list I refer to [of objects in the
cabinet]. It was locked up among a lot of old papers that I knew nothing
of ; and as I had forgotten the fact myself I could not have mentioned it. "
[Another case, which in one sense at least is retrocognitive, is supplied,
by the Hon. Eric Barrington, and confirmed by Mrs. Barrington. I have also
received a concordant account of the crystal-message from Lady Radnor,
the hostess on the occasion alluded to.]
0. 62, Cadogan-place.
November 21st, 1892.
Two years ago I mot Miss A, I think for the first time, at dinner at a
friend's house. She told my wife that she had seen standing behind my
chair a figure which from her description, though somewhat vague, seemed
The Subliminal Consciousness. 515
to be that of a very great friend of mine, an officer who had died about
seven years ago on active service. She referred particularly to the attitude
assumed by the figure, which was like the one in a photograph I possess of
him, but which she had never seen. She knew nothing of this friendship, and
the name of the officer was not mentioned to her.
Last summer we met again at the same house, and although in the in
terval we had become better acquainted with Miss A and her family, I am
not conscious of having ever said anything to her on the subject of my
friend. On reaching the drawing-room after dinner I found her looking
into a crystal and dictating with extraordinary rapidity a number of letters
of the alphabet which were passing before her, and were being taken down
by the lady of the house, who had the greatest difficulty in keeping pace
with her. When the letters ceased, it was discovered by marking them off from
the end that they formed a complete message, of which each word was spelt
backwards. Before the letters began to show themselves Miss A saw in the
crystal the same figure that she had seen two years before, dressed in what
appeared to be a dark uniform, and in the same peculiar attitude, but I was
not in the room when this occurred. As soon, however, as the message was
deciphered by our hostess, it became evident that it purported to proceed
from the person whose likeness had just been reproduced. It was addressed,
not to me, who was absent from the room when the letters first appeared,
but to my wife, and was to the following effect :—
" Ask your husband whether he still remembers T. T. Tell him that I
am constantly with him, and that death makes no difference in friendship."
The full surname was given, preceded by a nickname which had been
dropped when he grew up, and was only known to those who, like myself,
had been intimate with him from childhood.
It cannot be suggested that Miss A had been in any way impressed by
my thoughts, for it was not until I sat by my hostess and helped her to spell
out the words of the message that I realised from whom it came, when I was
able to explain the meaning of the nickname that had completely puzzled
her, though she had been well acquainted with the bearer after he entered
the army. Ekic Barrinuton.
This entirely agrees with my recollection of the circumstances. The
moment Miss A described the figure on our first meeting, I felt a very
peculiar sensation, accompanied by a certainty as to the identity of the
person she saw. • Christina Barrinuton.
[There is a privately printed life of the officer in question, in which an
early nickname of his is given. But I find that this nickname is not the
same as that shown in the crystal, which was appropriate for recognition
by friends of boyhood only.]
The possible sources of retrocognitive messages will be discussed,
I hope, more fully in a subsequent paper. At present I will only
observe that, assuming the probity of the seer, which does not in this
case need my testimonial, the danger is of unconscious memory of some
book or conversation read or heard unheedingly, and perhaps long ago.
In a case discussed in the S.P.R. Journal for July, 1891, I considered
that explanation of the messages probable. Here, in my judgment, it
516 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
is improbable in tbe extreme. But, apart from the discussion of such
chances, the evidential value of retrocognitive scenes is of course greatly
strengthened if (as in the present case) the same percipient has seen
contemporary scenes also, and has had veridical visions or messages which
could not by their very nature have been derived in a normal manner
from any existing source.
Case IV.—Mr. Keulemans.
XVII.—My next witness, Mr. Keulemans, has been known to me,
personally and by correspondence, for ten years. He has contributed
several cases, mentioned below, to our Proceedings. Mr. Keulemans, as
the world of naturalists well knows, is a scientific draughtsman,
especially strong in Ornithology. His works may be seen in the
Proceedings of the Zoological Society, in the Catalogue of the British
Museum, in the Ibis (Journal of the Ornithologist's Union), Ac, ifcc.
He has illustrated many monographs, and some large treatises. See
article " Ornithology," in Encyclopedia Britannica, pp. 13, 16, 17.
M. 53.
" Health.—My health is excellent, and has always been so. I was once ill
with yellow fever when in Sierra Leone ; but owing to my robust constitution
I recovered, whilst about forty per cent, of the other victims died. I have
also had rheumatic fever. But as a rule I never suffer from any derange
ment whatsoever. Perfect digestion, good sound sleep, and a happy home-
life are my special blessings. But perhaps the French .fa cants may suggest
that though my physique is normal, my nerves or brain may be wrong. I
do not think there is anything abnormal in any of my functions or faculties.
I have a very strong memory for names, &c. , but no great power of mental
calculation. I have a rare ear and memory for music I know about twenty
operas by heart, and could reproduce the most striking parts of about fifty
more. I have a strong feeling for ' harmony ' of all kinds—in sound,
movement, colour, and form. I take a great interest in Nature, and am
perpetually miking observations and experiments, and have, besides,
produced over 20,000 original drawings of birds and animals. All this sounds
very much like ' brag,' but as you ask me the questions I cannot but state
all particulars that may have a bearing on the point.
" Visualisation.—[Mr. Keulemans' power of visualisation is, as his artistic
work indicates, very strong.] I am not subject to illusions hijpnayMjiqnes,
but have often very vivid dreams of towns and other beautiful scenery. I
rarely dream of anything horrible ; perhaps because I do not sup or dine
late.
"Mode of Sensory Automatism.—I can sometimes become aware of certain
events that are taking place, or have already taken place, at a distance, by
means of what is usually called 'clairvoyance.' But my clairvoyance is
passive ; it is not the active clairvoyance, as I may call it, which enables
some people to start in search of events occurring elsewhere—by crystal-
g tzing, &c. In my cases there was actually something happening elsewhere
The Subliminal Consciousness. 517
.which came to me; and if I became aware of it this was owing to my having,
at first unconsciously, placed myself in a pseudo-hypnotic state.
"My profession is that of a scientific artist. I draw a good deal on stone ;
and my principal subjects are birds and animals. It so happens that the eye
of a bird, during the slow process of drawing it, forms a capital point for
concentration of the mind and consequent distraction from ordinary flows
of thought. I noticed that whenever strong impressions had got hold of my
mind they had a tendency to develop themselves into a vivid mind-picture
as soon as my eye and attention were concentrated upon the eye in the
drawing ; and that whenever I began darkening the iris, leaving the light
speck the most prominent part, I would slowly pass off into a kind of
dream-state. The mere act of drawing the eye is not enough to bring me
into this state, or I should experience such a state at least once a day, which
I do not. But if a strong mental impression takes hold of me I begin
drawing an eye, since I know from experience that such an impression
means that something has occurred which, so to say, comes within reach of
my centre of mental attraction. The drawing will then convey to me the
news, either in the form of a vague, imperfect representation of the person
indicated in the impression, or by a correct hallucinatory picture of the
event as it actually occurred, both as regards the person and the sur
roundings. Sometimes I cannot get at the vision at once ; other thoughts
and scenes interfere. But when I begin to feel drowsy I know I shall have
it right in a second ; and here I lose normal consciousness. That there is
an actual loss of consciousness I know from the fact that on one occasion
my wife had been in the room talking to me, and not receiving a reply
thought that something was wrong with me and shook my shoulder. The
shake brought me back to my waking state.
' Telepathic Instance.—A. Last summer, in Paris, I experienced a picture
of the vaguer class. I first had a strong notion that something was wrong
somewhere, affecting a near relative. As the notion kept disturbing me,
I resorted to my bird's-eye experiment, and saw my wife and mother-in-
law moving hurriedly in my bedroom here at Southend. I then heard my
child, little Marie, scream ; not a painful outcry, rather an outburst of
temper. This happened at about 1 p.m. I wrote home asking for par
ticulars and posted the letter at 4 p.m. At 9 p.m. I was with a friend
at Montreuil, near Paris. The family were finishing their dinner, and I
walked into the garden, when I saw hallucinatorily, without any experi
mental means, a picture of our bedroom, and little Marie in sound sleep.
I heard my boys laugh. It was all right again at home, said the telepathic
' message. ' Two days later my wife wrote that I had been correct in my
perception of little Marie's condition. She had been very ill during the
day—a kind of fit caused by the presence of thread-worms ; but by nine
o'clock, after vigorous treatment, was better, and went to sleep. Here the
message was correct so far as the person was concerned ; but there was a
Haw in the visualisation of the surroundings, since Marie had not been in
our bedroom, but in the nursery.
" Clairvoyant Instances.—li. Some three years ago I experienced what I
believe to have been a correct representation of actual facts. I saw in my
mind's eye one of my aunts walking in a room, with her right side bent, as
518 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
though in pain. I saw the room, even to the pattern of the wall-paper.
By my 'bird's-eye ' experiment I toeid into the room, and saw it just as I
had visualised it a few moments before, but more distinctly. The sensation
was akin to a dream, not of the most vivid kind. But I woke up from it ;
I found, that is to say, that I had actually lost normal consciousness.
"I wrote to my father, not asking whether my Aunt Marie was ill, but
simply stating that she was so, as though I had heard it as a piece of news.
In fact, I had not seen this aunt, nor heard from her, for over twenty years.
My parents had not seen her for several years. But she died a few days
after my father received my letter. She lived in a little village in Brabandt,
and I have never seen her house ; but one of my sisters knew a room in her
house very like that which I described. My father has not preserved my
letter. He laughs at clairvoyance, and finds it funny that I should practice
' conjuring.'
" C. About five years ago I had a similar experience. I was drawing an
animal on stone, and when I came to the eye I saw my grandmother sitting
in her room, knitting stockings. The same visualisation returned whenever
my chalk passed over that same part of my drawing, until at last I ' went
off,' and was in the room. I noticed clairvoyantly the pattern of the
American cloth covering the table. I had been in the room in person some
years previous. Two days later my brother wrote that our grandmother
was very ill, and not likely to recover. About a week after this—again when
drawing the eye of an animal or bird—the sound of an aria from the opera
'La Dame Blanche' strongly affected my mental ear. I heard it just as
though it was actually being played upon a musical-box just outside my
room. I then remembered that my grandmother had a clock playing that
tune. I heard the tune at about 7 p.m., and my grandmother died some
rive hours later on the same day."
It may be remembered that Mr. Keulemans has already contributed five
coincidental experiences to Phnntasms of the Living.i In referring to one
of these cases (Proceedings, XIV., p. 51<j, note) Miss X remarked that "Mr.
Keulemans seemed able to get definite pictures transferred from the uncon
scious region of the mind without needing a crystal to aid in their fixation."
This set Mr. Keulemans upon more careful observation, and he says: "I
have since discovered that all my cases of seeing happened while I was doing
some kind of work like the gradual ' graining-in ' of part of a drawing. "
He adds another case which, although very remote, stands out so
definitely in Mr. Keulemans' memory that it may be briefly given here.
1). Mr. Keulemans, when a boy, was to be taken by his uncle on a fishing
expedition. There was a mistake about hours, and the boy, running hurriedly
to the boat, found that he was there before the rest of the party. He sat
down to rest, witli head on hands, and full into a dream or state of changed
consciousness. In this state he saw a man unknown to him trying to strike
a fowl with a walking-stick in a known country-lane, completely out of sight
and hearing. "I heard him laugh, and noticed how a lock of his long, fair hair
i Cases numbered 21, 38, 50, 184 : and see case in note Vol. I., p. 250.
See also Vol. I., p. 441 note, and Vol. II., pp. 33, 31, for cases somewhat similar to
Mr. Keulemans' experiences.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 519
fell over his face, and how he tried to remove it by throwing back his head."
This man was in fact one of the uncle's fishing party, and had acted just
as described a few minutes before. He charged the boy with having
followed and watched him, and run round some other way. But the boy's
pulse was found tranquil, and the boatman testified to his having rested
there for some time.
We have, therefore, nine cases, more or less well-evidenced, and all of
somewhat similar type, which Mr. Keulemans regards as certainly coinci
dental.
Mr. Keulemans adds, however, that between 12 and 17 he had almost
daily cases of " ecstasy," which ho believes to have often contained true
clairvoyance but which he kept to himself and rarely endeavoured to test.
He still has these ecstasies occasionally ; and some of his non-coincidental
cases should be read in order that his faculty should be estimated from data
as full as possible. I abbreviate from a letter of January 11th, 1891 :—
" Last year, when sitting outside a London omnibus, I noticed what I
thought to be a ' darting spider ' sitting on a dark board. I closely watched
it, expecting to see it make a sudden dart, when, strange to say, both
spider and board vanished—and / was in Paris. There was the Hue do
Lafayette—I passed the Opera—down the Rue du 4 Septembrc, when a real
person asked me a question which I had just sense enough to understand to
be in English, and I found myself, to my great surprise, at the Mansion
House."
"Last winter I had been ill of rheumatic fever, and, although at work
before my easel, still felt pain all over. My mind was clear, but with an
inclination to get into the comatose condition in which real clairvoyance has
often manifested itself. So I gave in, like an hypnotised subject, and pur
posely forced my eyes upon some particular spot in my picture, trying
different colours alternately. Med gave me a headache, and I had to avert
the influence. Very dark spots had no effect whatsoever. Then the coma
tose sensation went off until I was again at work at some particular spot
requiring but mechanical labour. Blue-grey and light yellow seemed the
most likely to send me off. I was looking intently at a blue-green line
bounding a grey one, when gradually I found picture and surroundings go in a
mist, which cleared up, and I was now looking at some two or three children
climbing over a gate. They were very indistinct, but the landscape on their
right now became very clear and beautiful. It represented a lovely farmyard
scene, which I recognised as a place known to me between Southchurch
and Wakering, in Essex. I was there, as really as I am now writing at my
desk—nay, more really than in the normal state, for all my pain was gone in
the genial temperature and under the beautiful summer sky. I felt per
fectly happy, healthy, and more than usually vigorous. Also I seemed
conscious of possessing a far greater knowledge of things in general than in
normal life. But there was here no actual clairvoyance. I saw a familiar
landscape in it« summer aspect, whereas, had I been transcendentally present
there, I should have witnessed a winter scene with falling snow, for it was on
a dirty January day that I saw the vision. I have always thought that there
may be some affinity between the conditions in which non-veridical and those
in which veridical or clairvoyant impressions are experienced."
520 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
It is noticeable that in this case the hallucinatory sensation pervaded the
percipient's whole being, giving a sense of extraordinary bien-etre and of
unwonted insight into reality. A similar case is cited by Professor James
(Principles of Psychology, Vol. II., p. 120), where the informant had a single
experience of the same ecstatic and exhilarating kind. " I had only just sat
down and become interested in the circular when I seemed to lose myself for a
minute and then found myself in the top storey of a high building, very white
and shining and clean, with a noble window, through which I looked out upon a
marvellous reach of landscape entirely new. I never had before such a sense of
infinity in nature, such superb stretches of light and colour and cleanness.
When I began to come to, so to speak, sitting in that other world, I debated
for three or four minutes more as to which was dream and which was reality.
Sitting there I got a faint sense of C. [the town in which the writer was]
away off and dim at first. Then I remembered thinking, ' Why, I used to live
in C, perhaps I am going back.' Slowly C. did come back, and I felt myself
at my desk again. The whole experience was perfectly delightful—there
was such a sense of brilliancy and clearness and lightness about it."
Cases like these (of which I have heard some others) should not, I think,
ba confounded with ordinary dreams ; nor with cases where a series of day
dreams, at first voluntary, gradually becomes involuntary1 ; still less with the
vague, uncomfortable sensations of " being somewhere else " which form a
frequent element in epileptic aure. They are more akin to the sensory
automatisms discussed in this paper, and it will be remembered that Miss A
has often the feeling that she is in the scene which she sees. But the change
in subjective sensation recalls rather the experiences of Dr. Wiltse and M.
Bertrand - at the moment when they were apparently dead. The fittest name
for all such experiences is ecstasy, for they involve a " standing forth " from
the habitual environment —the environment of corporeal sensations as well as
of material surroundings ; and they carry with them " that thoughtless sense
of joy bewildering " which, as I have elsewhere noted, seems the frequent, the
unexpected accompaniment of these profound shocks to waking personality.
It is obvious that in these modern and, so to say, secular cases of ecstasy we
need not expect to find the special theological colouring familiar in the
ecstasy, for instance, of S. Theresa.
A curious illustration of the connection between these ecstasies and
telepathy is afforded by a recent experience of Mr. Keulemans' at or about
the moment of his father's death. His father died at Rotterdam, 3.30 p.m.
Rotterdam time, 3.12 p.m. English time, on August 29th, 1892. This event
was preceded for Mr. Keulemans by several externalised auditions (of the
" Demon of Socrates " type) and by a symbolical vision ; to him significant,
though hardly definite enough for citation as evidence. On August 29th he
was aware of his father's dangerous illness, and expecting to return to
Rotterdam in a few days ; but an immediate end was not looked for. " On
Monday, August 29th, at 3.10 p.m. by my watch, whilst I was in the garden
holding a little trowel in my hand, there suddenly came over me a strange
feeling, like a call from the unseen to be attentive, to be prepared for some
i See Fert', Pathologic ties Emotions, p. 347.
- Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 180, sqq.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 521
strange occurrence. I stood upright in answer to the call, and stood looking
upon a lane of summer beans. They looked heavenly beautiful ; my garden
seemed all glorified. I felt my father's influence. If I had held both his
hands and looked him in the eyes I could not have felt his influence more
strongly than I did at that moment. But there was no vision of him. This
lasted perhaps six seconds. Then it seemed that the garden had resumed
its normal aspect, and I felt the influence gone ; and with it all the sad
gloomy thoughts about my father which had occupied my mind. 'This
means that father is gone,' I said to myself. I therefore noted the time
(3.10 p.m.), wont indoors, and told my wife what had happened to me. I
thought of telegraphing to my brother in Holland, but changed my mind, as
it might have seemed to my relatives that I treated my father's death as a
subject for experiment.
"Next day I heard from my brother that my father had died peacefully at
half-past three on Monday afternoon."
Mrs. Keulemans confirms as follows: "The above, as far as the main
points are concerned, is quite correct ; but I have no recollection of my
husband describing the garden scene as appearing more beautiful to him
than at other times."—A. Keulemans.
Here again we have the points so often noticed,—the entire removal of
sorrow from the moment when the departed friend has got his hold, so to
say, on the survivor's mind ;—the association of joy and ecstasy with these
deep upheavals of personality, and with the upheaval which we call death.
I must not here pursue this topic. But one further remark may be made
as to Mr. Keulemans' habit of mind, or type of intelligence, with reference
to the view which would make of such experiences as his an indication of
" mental disintegration," an approach to hysterical incoherence or lack of
well-controlled personality. My contention is that although a weak person
ality may be subject to such disintegrations against its will, it is character
istic also of a strong personality to be capable of using concealed resources ;
or say, altering its focus of crystallisation with more readiness than is possible
to an ordinary man. I have claimed this in the case of various forms of genius,
and I note that Mr. Keulemans' vigorous and eager versatility is accom
panied by a marked power over memory and capacity for forming and separat
ing mnemonic chains. Thus he has a stronger tendency than most men to
form a continuous dream-memory, going on from one night to another. And,
leading a busy life divided between Paris and London, he has a tendency to
form two memories for these two lives, and to forget when in Palis the
incidents of his London life. This tendency to a certain extent exists in all
of us ; but in Mr. Keulemans it would, if not controlled, lead far towards a
duplication of consciousness. He can, however, by voluntary effort, control it
completely. There is, therefore, no reason to regard it as disadvantageous ;
rather, it effects automatically that act of putting away from the mind need
less encumbrances which is one of the first needs of the busy man. In my
view, therefore, Mr. K.'s intellectual history illustrates the interest and
knowledge added to a healthy and capable man by a slightly increased power
of sitting loosely to the bonds of supraliminal personality—of altering the
focus of mental crystallisation to suit a change in environment.
The cases which I have thus far cited have come, with hardly an
522 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
exception, from the limited circle of persons already independently
known to me, and the experiments recorded have for the most part
been undertaken at my request.
XVIII.—I will add a few detached cases of crystal-vision for which
the authority seems good. In the first case the seer, now married to an
Englishman, is known to me, and the witnesses, Colonel Wiekham and
his wife, Princess di Cristoforo, (whose acquaintance I made in conse
quence of their publication of the following incidents in Light), have
assured me that the following incidents, although now the only ones
which can be clearly remembered, were paralleled by several others
during the time of Ruth's possession of the power which seems now to
have left her. She has never been in any way a professional clair
voyant, and is, so far as I can judge, a trustworthy person. The value
of the following case, however, does not depend upon her trustworthi
ness, but on the recollection retained by Colonel AVickham and his wife
of incidents, which, even if we suppose errors of memory as to details,
were of a very definite type.
M. 54.
Early in the spring of the year 1885, I was living at Colaba with my
husband, a major of the Royal Artillery. Colaba is the Royal Artillery
station, and is situated about two miles from Bombay. For some little time
I had been studying Gregory's minima! Magnetism. The subject possessing
a peculiar fascination for me, I had experimented occasionally, with varying
success, on the different servants (Indian for the most part) of my establish
ment. Over one girl, a half-caste, my children's nurse, I possessed great
influence, and used frequently to magnetise a tumbler of water, so that by
making her look therein I might learn what my friends at a distance were
doing.
This girl was no ignorant native, but a well-educated young woman, able
to read and write, who spoke English nearly as well as I do myself, having
been educated in the Protestant training school at Belgaum. Many things
which this girl told me I have since discovered to have actually occurred :
others I have never yet been able to verify.
One day, the morning Lord Reay was expected to arrive in Bombay, the
Royal Artillery (of which my husband was then in command) was, together
with the other European troops quartered at Colaba, ordered to line the
approach to the landing-place at the Apollo Bunder, all officers having to
appear in full regimentals. Wo were still sitting at breakfast when my
husband called to his orderly to get out his uniform and place it ready for
him to put on. The man soon returned, and, with a bewildered air,
stammered, as he salaamed before his master : " Sahib, me no can find the
dress pouch-belt."
"Don't talk nonsense, you must be blind as a bat," ejaculated the Major,
as, rising impatiently from his seat, he walked into his dressing-room. Soon,
his voice, raised in angry exclamation, burst on my ears. From what I heard
I gathered that the dress pouch-belt was really not to be found, and further
that my enraged husband was accusing each and all of his servants of having
The Subliminal Consciousness. 523
appropriated it. Piteous cries of "Not me, sahib, me very good man, me
not tief," filled the air. The jabbering, yelling, and hooting was perfectly
deafening. My husband returned to the breakfast-room. "Now then," he
said, "here is a brilliant opportunity of testing the verity of Ruth's clair
voyance. Get her up here and ask her to find my pouch-belt." I called
Ruth, who appeared pale and trembling, half imagining we suspected her of
the theft.
When I explained to her what I required of her she at first begged to be
excused, declaring that her fellow servants would never forgive her should
the thief be discovered through her instrumentality. I quieted her fears by
promising her that should she see the face of the thief in the tumbler she
need only reveal the fact to me ; that I would not tell the Sahib, but would
speak to the pilferer of the bait myself, and on his restoring the missing
article would condone the theft, not letting my husband know who had
purloined the belt.
Filling a tumbler with water, I placed my left hand under it, and made
passes with my right over it. I then bade Ruth taste it. "It is bitter
enough, I think," she said. "If Mem Sahib pleases to mesmerise me, I
think I can see now." Perhaps it may be as well to mention here that Ruth
always declared the mesmerised water acquired a bitter flavour after being
operated on. I have frequently mesmerised one tumbler of water tmd
placed another, similar in appearance in every respect, beside it. I have
then called Ruth and asked her which was the mesmerised and which the
untouched water ; she would taste both and each time invariably detected
the difference. Strange to say, also, when I at one time purchased a
powerful magnet (thinking that perhaps it would prove a more powerful
magnetiser than my own hand), Ruth declined to look into the water so
magnetised, declaring that she saw flames in it, and that they leapt up as if
they wanted to scorch her face ! It was of no use my trying to deceive
her—she invariably knew which was the "condemned tumbler " (as she
called it).
Having made this lengthy, though somewhat necessary digression, I will
now proceed with my story. We left Ruth just ready to look in the tumbler.
She bent her head over it, and a silence of a few seconds' duration ensued.
"Can you see anything, Ruth?" at last I said. "No! Mem Sahib—
nothing." " Look for the thief," I commanded firmly, making fresh passes
over her head and the back of her neck, but all to no purpose. Ruth per
sisted that she saw nothing. I began to think that she was an impostor
and had humbugged me systematically throughout.
Suddenly an idea struck me. We would try another way. "Ruth," I
said, "look for Sahib the day he last wore the dress pouch-belt." Silence
again. Then, " I see Sahib," said the girl dreamily. "He is dressing, he
puts on his uniform, now the pouch-belt. Ah ! he has left the room."
."Follow him," I said firmly. "Sahib is getting on his horse : he is riding
away." "Don't leave him a moment," I cried. "Ah ! but he goes so fast.
I am tired," gasped the girl breathlessly. "Goon," I said. "Sahib is
with other Sahibs, and there are many soldiers and people. It is a grand
Tomasha ; some great person is going away. They all stand near the water."
"Then rest," I, said " hut don't take your eyes off Sahib." She was silent
524 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
for a brief space, then said, " Sahib has gone into a big house by the water.
He goes into a dressing-room. He changes his clothes, all his regimentals,
are put in his tin c:tse, but the pouch-belt is left out. It is hanging on a
peg in the dressing-room of the house by the sea."
"The Yacht Club!" cried my husband. "Patilla" (to his orderly),
" send someone at once and see if the belt has been left there."
Patilla salaamed and retired, followed by the rest of the servants.
" I wonder," mused my husband, " if I really left it at the Yacht Club
after all ? The last day I wore it was when Lord Ripon left for England."
"We shall soon learn," said I, triumphantly. I, for one, had no doubt
whatever that the belt would be found there.
In as short a time as was compatible with the distance to be traversed
the messenger returned. The rush of many feet and the jabbering of many
voices convinced me before we saw him that his quest had been a successful
one.
He ran panting up the stairs, the belt held high above his head. He
had found it as Ruth had seen it—in the house by the sea, hanging on a peg
in a dressing-room of the Yacht Club.
Ruth could have had no idea where the belt was left. She had been with
me a very short time, and entered my service long after Lord Ripon's depar
ture from Bombay.
In the spring of the same year I was much interested in a polo tourna
ment about to be held at Meerut.
A then great friend of mine was to take part in this, and as he was
addicted to falling off occasionally, though in reality a splendid rider and
player, I was feeling rather anxious on his account. I again called Ruth to
my assistance. We shut ourselves up in my room and I mesmerised the
water as before, Ruth, however, requesting me to place a piece of brown
paper under the tumbler of water, declaring she could see more plaiuly
when that was beneath it.
She placed her hands round the glass to exclude the light.
" Go to Meerut," I said, steadily.
After impatiently waiting for about ten minutes, Ruth said. "I am there.''
" Find Sahib " I said, mentioning the name of my friend.
" I see a tall, dark man, dressed in blue and white ; he has a slight black
moustache, and is thin, with large, fierce eyes."
" Follow him and tell me how he gets on."
" He gets on all right ; but the other side is winning. Ah ! " she cried
out, piteously, "a gentleman has been bitten by a horse in the leg. He is.
in great pain."
" Not my friend ?" I inquired anxiously.
" No ! not Mem Sahib's friend ; this is a fair gentleman, red faced, with
very light hair."
"Ask his name," I said, fixing my eyes intently on her, and exerting my
will-power to its uttermost.
" I can't ; how can I ? " she said, doubtfully.
"Do as I bid you," I replied firmly.
" I will ask his syce," she said, "if you can make me visible to him."
I tried with all my might. All to no use !
The Subliminal Consciousness. 525
" Stop ! I hear his name, it is Captain ."
I almost jumped out of my chair with delight. My friend, I thought,
she might have recognised from his photograph ; but this other man she had
never seen, never heard me mention. Indeed, I had never even thought of
him since I left the up-country station in which my husband's battery and
his regiment had previously been quartered.
I don't remember now which side it was that eventually won the
tournament, fully five years having elapsed since that time ; but this I do
remember, however. When my husband returned in the evening, I asked
him if he had any news of the polo tournament. " No," he said, " we shall
not hear until to-morrow."
"I can give you some news, though," I said. "Ruth asserts that
Captain , of the 17th Lancers, has been bitten in the leg. is all
right, though, but from what Ruth saw I fancy our friends were losing."
My husband laughed. "We shall see to-morrow if Ruth is again right," he
said.
He told the officers of the Royal Artillery mess of my last "tumbler-
telegram," as they called them, and I believe much merriment was excited
at my gullibility. Let those laugh who win, though. The telegrams the
next day proved Ruth's story to be perfectly correct in every particular.
Soon after this a friend of my husband's came to see us. This gentleman
was the cantonment magistrate at Assigurgh. My husband was telling him
about Ruth and her strange powers, when he asked me if I had any
objection to his testing them, to the end that he might recover some valuable
property he had lost.
" I must tell you, however," he said to me, " that I am an utter sceptic ;
and it will require strong proof to convince me." I felt rather offended ; for
if the girl was a humbug, I was a dupe or worse. I sent for Ruth, who was
as indignant as myself. At first she distinctly refused to do the Sahib's
bidding, but I impressed it upon her that the credit of both of us was at
stake, on which she at length unwillingly consented. The usual prelimina
ries having been gone through, he questioned her through me, as follows :—
" Go to Assigurgh and describe my bedroom in it."
This she did, correctly too, as he at once acknowledged.
" Now tell me what I have lost."
" I see a box, not a large box. It is a tin one, it contains money and a
roll of papers."
"Right you are," exclaimed the astonished Major. "Now tell me
where that box is now."
" It is in a small room. Shall I open it 1 "
" Yes, and tell me what is in it."
She paused a little.
" Only papers, Sahib, the money is gone."
"Describe the man who took it."
"He is not there, the room is empty."
" Look for him."
" He is in Sahib's room. He is a little dark man with a pleasant face ;
his dress is white ; he has a scarlet cummerbund, and a scarlet and gold
turban. He has a scar on his left hand."
2 N
520 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
"My butler, by Jingo! The very man I suspected, too," cried the
Major.
******
A. few days afterwards, when Major had returned to Assigurgh, he
wrote to me and told me he had found the box, as described, in his servant's
house, or rather cabin ; but that no papers remained in it. It was empty.
This was the only thing that was not correct in Ruth's statement.
I conclude she saw the box before the papers were removed from it. I
often found that she did not seem to have much control over time, as
regarded past events, though she would describe the actual occurrence rightly
enough.
At another time I lost a piece of pale pink satin embroidered with silver.
It could be found nowhere. I was unwilling to believe that either of my
servants had taken it, for they were devoted to me, and had one and all been
in my service a long time, with the exception of my Dirzee.' I could not
suspect him of having taken it, as he never, by any chance, so far as I was
aware of, had access to my rooms. However, through Ruth he was detected
as the thief, and returned the missing article, though he spread the report
that I was a witch afterwards on hearing how the theft had been discovered.
In this case, as will have been observed, the visions are of the
retrocognitive type. Of the same class is the incident that follows,
'which I quote from a recent article in the Contemporary Review,
called " Trace," signed with the pseudonym of " J. M. Sonmes." Its
writer, as I am allowed to state, is Major Schreiber, a retired officer,
known to me.
M. 55.
We arranged an afternoon for our experiments on the crystal, and after
tea was over we set to work. My wife was placed in a very comfortable
chair, and the lights were turned down—not out by any means, but so as not
to dazzle the eye, while at the same time everything was distinctly visible in
the room. I put her to sleep, and gave her the crystal. The effect was
instantaneous. She commenced speaking at once, and said :—
"Oh, what lovely flowers, and what a perfume!" And she began to
draw her breath through her nose, as if inhaling the scent of flowers. I
asked her then where she was. She said, " I am in the most lovely garden I
have ever seen. It is not in England. I am standing in a broad pathway ;
on one side is a hedge of white azaleas, and on the other pink. They are
about six or seven feet high ; between these hedges and the path there are
broad borders, in which are planted these sweet-smelling flowers. There are
beautiful trees all about the garden, such as I have never seen before ; and
at the end of the path is a little black and gold house, with such a funny
little man sitting outside."
This dream I ordered her to remember when she awoke, and there is a
sequel to it that I will relate further on.
She resumea : "I can see now a small shop at the junction of two streets,
with a door opening on tc each street. In the middle of the shop is a glass
' A native tailor.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 527
case like those one sees in a jeweller's. There is a tall man, very like a
Jew, with a long black beard. He is bargaining with another man."
" What is the other man like ? " I asked.
" He is about the middle height, and he has grey hair and moustache, a
plain face. I know him. I have seen him, but I cannot tell you his name.
The funny little man has come down from the garden, and is sitting outside.
He seems very much interested in what is going on in the shop."
Then followed a few more details that I do not remember. I then
asked :
" Can you describe the situation of the town in which this shop is ? "
"The town is a seaport, standing in a large bay. The coast seems nearly
to join at the mouth of the harbour. On the land side it is backed by
mountains covered nearly to the summits with the most luxuriant vege
tation."
Then came a pause, and she continued: "I am on board ship. The
man I recognised is here too. Oh, such a dreadful storm ; the ship is
rolling about most fearfully. I cannot go on. I musfgo and lie down. I
feel so ill."
My wife exhibited all the symptoms of sea-sickness, and as I feared a
full realisation of the malady might follow, I woke her up, thinking we had
obtained sufficient information for what we wanted.
The member of the society who had brought the crystal took it back
next day to the owner, who was the man with the grey hair and moustache,
and gave him the information we had obtained the evening before. Ho told
our friend the name of the town ; and, although he would not own up to
the truth of the story, it was easy to see that the information we had
obtained was true in every detail. People of his sort are very unsatisfactory
to deal with.
The curious sequel that I alluded to lies in the fact that my wife and
myself were one day, some months afterwards, going through one of the big
museums in London. I was looking at a case of curiosities, and my wife
was some little way from me, when I heard her exclaim :
"I have been here ; I know the place quite well. That is where tho
little man was sitting, and there is the little black and gold house."
" What nonsense are you talking t " I said. "That is impossible."
But then I remembered the experiment with the crystal, and upon going
up to see what my wife was looking at, I found it was a model of the garden
in the town where our grey-haired friend had owned to having obtained the
crystal.
XIX.—Enough, perhaps, has now been said to suggest to the
reader that this crystal-vision, which has so long been disregarded as a
mere superstition, may in reality be used with profit as an empirical
method of educing from the subliminal self a number of pictures—
very unequal, indeed, in value—but of which some, at least, appear
to imply a telepathic or clairvoyant extension of ordinary knowledge.
Stated, then, in its most general form, the lesson which sensory
automatism teaches us is that our centrally initiated sensations may
2 n 2
528 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
convey instruction as to the external world as veritable as that which
peripherally initiated sensations convey. Internal percepts—arising
independently of evident sensory stimuli—are of course just as normal
as external percepts—consequent upon known peripheral stimuli. I
here contend that those internal percepts may bring to us actual
knowledge which external perception could never reach. It may, of
course, be replied that this so-called extension of ordinary knowledge is
a farrago of error and triviality which can never be of practical service,
and to which, such as it is, only a few favoured individuals can, on my
own showing, hope to attain. " Is it reasonable," it will be asked, " to
attribute so much importance to phenomena extremely rare and abso
lutely useless 1" I reply that to my argument it is no disadvantage
that the phenomena should be rare, and it is a positive advantage that
they should be useless. I am trying to discover the furthest limits of
human faculty ; artd I have already endeavoured to define and unify
this scattered experimental inquiry by a wide hypothesis—the hypo
thesis, namely, that the evolutionary process of which we men are the
result is not a terrene process only, but a cosmioal ; and that our
supraliminal faculties, our specialised sensitivities, are but a selection
from those which we potentially possess—a selection determined by
our race's terrene history, and the capabilities of organic matter. My
end, therefore, will be attained if I can render it probable that here
and there in humanity we discern powers which terrene evolution as
we conceive it could in no way have produced. The rarity of these
powers is no drawback to the theory, if only we find sufficient instances
of them to make us certain that they exist at all. No one will suppose
that in matters so fundamental we men are built on differing plans.
Again, if powers in one sense so transcendent are from a terrene
point of view unmanageable and ineffective ; if this unsteerable balloon
of supernormal faculty is less practically serviceable than the humblest
pony-carriage of common-sense ;—this surely is in itself precisely the
indication which I desire that such faculty has not been developed on
earth by the struggle for earthly existence, but must rather date from
some earlier and foreshadow some later evolution ; even as the rudimen
tary organs of the imago within the larva indicate that it has sprung
from a free-flying insect, and will thereto itself return. And in the
same way as we use artifice to help us to realise the detail of our
external or optical percepts, so also ought we to use artifice to realise
the detail of our internal percepts. To speak paradoxically, the eye is
not our only means of seeing, nor is the world around us the only
thing that we see.
XX.—Let me try to explain my meaning by a brief review of the
forms of vision known to us, so arranged as to show the two diverging
lines of visual perception ; the one tending outwards, the other in
The Subliminal Consciousness. 529
wards ; but both alike starting from a perceptivity whose primary or
central seat I must here place vaguely in " the brain."
A. The whole group of synesthesie, of which so-called coloured
audition—better named "sound-seeing"—is merely the most conspicuous
member, stand as it were on the dividing line or watershed between
external and internal percepts. I speak of the synesthesie of specialised
senses ; of the response given by one sense to a stimulus capable of
exciting the end-organ of another sense alone. We seem here to have
a kind of vestige of that undifferentiated continuous sensitivity from
which we suppose our existing senses to have been specialised in the
straggle for life. And such repercussions or irradiations of sensitivity,
when they take a visual—I can hardly say an optical—form in the
chromatisms of the sound-seer, can scarcely be called a purely mental
phenomenon. For in some subjects they seem to be determined before
birth, and to precede all conscious mentation. Nor, on the other hand,
can we exactly class them as external vision, since it is probable that
in some other individuals they are developed only as the result of
mental associations. As above suggested, it may be safest merely to call
them entencephalic—on the analogy of entoptic—since they seem to be
due to something in brain-structure somewhat in the same way as
entoptic percepts are due to something in the structure of the eye.
B. From these entencephalic photisms, at any rate, we seem to pass
by an easy transition to the most inward fonn of entoptic vision—
which is therefore the most inward form of all external vision—the
flash of light consequent on electrisation of the optic nerve. Next on
our outward road we may place the phosphenes caused by pressure on
the optic nerve or irritation of the retina. Next Purkinje's figures,
or shadows cast by the blood-vessels of the middle layer upon the
bacillary layer of the retina. Then muscce volitantes, or shadows cast
by motes in the vitreous humour upon the fibrous layer of the retina.
C. Midway, again, between entoptic and ordinary external vision
we may place after-images ; which, although themselves perceptible
with shut eyes, presuppose a previous retinal stimulation from without ;
—forming, in fact, the entoptic sequela* of ordinary external vision.
D. Next comes our ordinary vision of the external world—and this,
again, is pushed to its highest degree of externality by the employment
of artificial aids to sight. He who gazes through a telescope at the
stars has mechanically improved his end-organs to the furthest point
now possible to man.
E. And now, standing once more upon our watershed of enten
cephalic vision, let us trace the advancing capacities of internal vision.
The forms of vision now to be considered are virtually independent of
the eye ; they can persist, that is to say, after the destruction of the
eye, if only the eye has worked for a few years, so as to give visual
530 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
education to the brain. We do not, in fact, fully know the limits of
this independence, which can only be learnt by a fuller examination of
intelligent blind persons than has yet been made. Nor can we say
with certainty how far in a seeing person the eye is in its turn influenced
by the brain. I shall avoid postulating any " retropulsive current "
from brain to retina, just as I have avoided any expression more specific
than " the brain " to indicate the primary seat of sight. The arrange
ment here presented is a psychological one, and can be set forth with
out trespassing on controverted physiological ground.
We may take memory-images as the simplest type of internal vision.
These images, as commonly understood, introduce us to no fresh know
ledge ; they preserve the knowledge gained by conscious gaze upon the
outer world. In their simplest spontaneous form they are the cerebral
sequele of external vision, just as after-images are its enloplic sequelse.
And we have seen that in some cases these two classes of vision are
confounded. But we have seen also that into the cerebral storage of
impressions one element habitually enters which is totally absent from
the mere retinal storage, namely a psychical element—a rearrangement
or generalisation of the impressions retinally received.
F. And by this imperceptible transition we pass from memory
images to imagination-images—voluntary or involuntary recombina
tions of retinal impressions which, although they do not bring us new
statements of external fact, do, nevertheless, bring us new ideas—new
explanations of the observed facts, and, in short, the greater part of
our power of controlling Nature. Among the more marked and
peculiar developments of this class are illusions hypnayoyiques, and
some of the hallucinations of disease.
G. And here, a generation ago, our categories of inward visuali
sation would have come to an end. Our ordinary consciousness takes
us thus far and no farther ; and we should be inclined to say that
Watt, lying in bed in a dark room and conceiving the steam-engine,
illustrated the utmost limit to which internal visualisation could go.
But somewhat as physical artifice came to the aid of external vision,
and showed us through telescope and microscope external objects which
were in their own nature visible, but which our clumsy end-organs
could not reach ; so here also psychological artifice has come to our aid,
and has shown us internal images, capable of visual presentation, but
which our clumsy supraliminal consciousness could not reach. We
come to subliminal visualisations, rendered supraliminal by various
empirical methods.
The simplest case is that of post-hypnotic suggestion. The en
tranced subject is told to see a cat when he awakes, and sees it, with
out remembering the suggestion, or knowing whence that cat really
comes. Here we have a simple subliminal picture—in itself belonging
The Subliminal Consciousness. 531
to the class of imagination-images, but increased in intensity, and
changed in psychological import, by the fact of its transference from
one stratum of the personality to another. It has become what I have
called a message ; a new piece of knowledge (in this case fictitious)
introduced into the ordinary flow of waking life, but not directly from
the external world. Or, if preferred, suppose that a real cat has been
shown to the entranced subject, and that this special cat is then
recalled to him as a post-hypnotic hallucination. Here is a memory-
image—a piece of real knowledge—introduced into ordinary waking
life ; but not directly from the external world. That cat's image has
lieen cerebrally stored in a different compartment from that in which
the memories of waking life are stored ; in a compartment whose key
can only be turned (by the subject himself or by his hypnotiser) during
the temporary abeyance of the supraliminal self. And if, indeed, the
retina is used at all in the perception of this hallucinatory cat, it obeys
a retropulsive current, an impulse not from without but from within.
H. This fast described class of visualisations, so significant, and as
yet so imperfectly understood, forms, as I have already implied, the
most recent addition to the categories of vision which established
Science recognises. But the next category in my scheme is one for
which I hope ere long to obtain recognition. I allude to that class of
visual presentations which are not only subliminal in origin, but
hypermnesic in content. In my last paper, on " Hypermnesic Dreams,"
and in this present paper, I have tried to show that both dream and
crystal vision occasionally bring up into supraliminal consciousness
visual facts which provably were not observed by the supraliminal
self, although they were within the range of ordinary vision. A
typical case of this kind is when someone hunts for a ring, fails to find
it, and then dreams of it in a spot over which he has searched in vain—
and finds it there. In such a case the ring has lain within the field of
vision, but has provably not been noted by the supraliminal self. It
has, however, been subliminally noted, and dream or crystal vision
brings to the surface this hidden knowledge. To this class also many
spontaneous hallucinations belong.
J. I have said that this hypermnesic faculty, although not as yet
commonly recognised, is nevertheless likely, in my view, to be recog
nised before long ; for it involves nothing which can be reckoned as
antecedently very improbable. But from this category we slip almost
insensibly into another which soon introduces us to novelties of a more
startling kind. From hypermnesia we pass into hyperesthesia ; and
hypersestheticvisualisations are soon indistinguishable from clairvoyance.
Thus, I have spoken of cases where some subliminal message, as by
dream or crystal vision, presents to the supraliminal self a picture of
an object which, though never " consciously " noted, has yet come
532 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
within the range of ordinary vision. But we have seen also that there
are cases where the object thus subliminally depicted has not come within
the range of ordinary vision. Up to a certain point we can explain this
by assuming that some such hyperesthesia as is often noticeable in the
hypnotic trance may be, in fact, habitual in the subliminal conscious
ness. But this will not carry us far. A point comes at which we can no
longerexplain the far-reaching perceptions by any excitement of the end-
organs, but are obliged to fall back upon the hypothesis of telsesthesia'
instead of hyperesthesia ; and to ascribe the supernormal knowledge
to some central perceptivity, apparently of a less speciabsed kind. In
short, we here reach clairvoyance, for which some evidence is given in
the present paper, but more in the articles of Mrs. Sidgwick, Proceed
ings, Vol. VII., p. 30, and p. 356.
K. It is plain that when we have reached this point of generalised,
perceptivity our series of forms of vision has reached its close. Just as,,
when we follow the development of sensitivity in an outicard direction,,
we come to ever increasing specialisation ; so when we turn inwards
we come to ever increasing generalisation. That is to say, while our
outward progress in perception consists in recognising, by ever more
elaborate end-organs, an ever wider range of external facts, so does,
our inward progress consist in recognising, by increased facility of
transmission from the subliminal to the supraliminal strata of our
consciousness an ever deeper range of forms of knowledge not
thus specialised, but acquired by a subliminal perceptivity which,
though it may send up its messages in visual or auditory terms, does not
itself depend upon any optical or acoustic mechanism.2 Various kinds
I This word, which I originally suggested, along with telepathy, in 1883, still
seems to me a better term for perception at a distance, assumed not to come directly
from another mind, than (for instance) tclopry or telakousia, which I have seen proposed.
For it is desirable to bring out the fact that such distant perception is not effected in
accordance with optical or acoustic laws ;—is not conveyed by light-waves or sound
waves acting as we know them to act.
a Specially good illustration of this mode of generalised perception, only
gradually attaining to definite visual symbolism, is afforded by a long case published
by Professor Royce, of Harvard, in No. 4, pp. 397-400 of the Proceedings of the
American S.P.R. (now a branch of the English S.P.R.). I quote the description
given by the percipient "N,"a lady physician. The experience was a veridical one—
that is to say, the friend who was thus supernormally discerned, a Boston gentleman
well known to Professor Royce, testifies that an interchange of letters at the time
proved conclusively to him that '• N's " vision was coincident with a moment when,
he had in fact thrown himself face downward on his bed, in a large square room at a
hotel, at 2 p.m., in great mental distress. There have been other telepathic
communications between the same two persons.
" N " writes to Professor Royce, August 16th, 188G :—
" In the convalescence from a malarial fever, during which great hyperesthesia,
of brain had obtained, but no hallucinations or false perceptions, I was sitting alone
in my room looking out of the window. My thoughts were of indifferent trivialities ;
after a time my mind seemed to become absolutely vacant ; my eyes felt fixed, the
air seemed to grow white. X could see objects about me, but it was a terrible effort of
The Subliminal Consciousness. 533
of cognition may be thus visually presented,—as apparitions of living or
of dead persons, retrocognitive or precognitive pictures. But although
the methods by which these various forms of knowledge may be origin
ally reached may be widely different, these differences are not necessarily
differences of mode of vision. The visual form (so far as we can tell) is
merely the form in which the message is sent up from the subliminal to
the supraliminal strata, and the mere mechanism of these messages may
be the same, whether, for instance, the message be the telepathic
announcement that our fellow experimenter is at this moment looking
at the ace of diamonds, or the retrocognitive announcement (as in a
case given above) that many years ago a grandfather was all but blown
out to sea when duck-shooting
XXI.—If this be so, is there reason tohope that anyexperimentwhich
we can make, any artifice which we can use, will be able to extend our
internal vision, as telescope and microscope have extended the external i
Such artifice, it would seem, must be directed to improving,—not the
supernormal presensory perceptivity itself, which we cannot hope directly
to reach,—but the facility of transmission of the visual symbols of that
unknown perceptivity from a subliminal to a supraliminal strata. And
the crystal vision described in this paper is an empirical artifice
of precisely this kind. It aims not at extending the purview of
the subliminal self, but at eliciting visual messages from that
self in a clear and convenient form. Some such messages it does
provably and undoubtedly obtain. Many men, indeed, will deny this,
just as many men denied the reality of the cognate phenomenon of
automatic writing when I first urged that method of experimentation
upon the attention of readers of these Proceedings. But just as I then
felt confiden -with a confidence which the event has justified—that
so soon as sufficient experiments should be tried, the reality and
vnll to perceive anything. I then felt great and painful sense as of sympathy with
someone suffering, who or where I did not know. After a little time I knew with
whom, but how I knew I cannot tell ; for it seemed some time after this knowledge of
personality that I saw distinctly in my brain, not before my eyes, a large, square
room, evidently in a hotel, and saw the person of whom I had been conscious, lying
face downwards on the bed, in the throes of mental and physical anguish. I felt
rather than heard sobs and grieving, and felt conscious of the nature of the grief
subjectively ; its objective cause was not transmitted to me. Extreme exhaustion
followed the experience, which lasted forty minutes intensely, and then very slowly
wore away. Let me note :—
" 1. I had not thought of the person for some time, and there was no reminder in
the room.
" 2. The experience was remembered with more vividness than that seen in tho
normal way, while the contrary is true of dreams.
"3. The natural order of perception was reversed, i.e., the emotion came first, the
sense of a personality second, the vision or perception of the person third.
"I should be glad to have a theory given of this reverse in the natural order of
perception."
534 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
importance of automatic script would become evident, whatever
view might be taken as to the limit to which its revelations extended ;
so now also do I feel confident—and Professor Janet's experience has
already confirmed my confidence—that so soon as sufficient experiments
have been made in crystal vision, its reality and importance will
become evident, whatever view may be taken as to the limits to which
its revelations extend.
It is to the rising generation of experimental psychologists—to the
students in psycho-physical laboratories—that my appeal is in the first
instance made. But so scattered is the capacity of sensory automatism,
so unknown its conditions, that I am anxious that all my readers
should try my suggested experiments, and should send to me at
Cambridge full reports of the results obtained.
It is this need of wide co-operation which must be my excuse for
the bold and comprehensive way in which I have set forth the
hypotheses to which this experiment points. If there is to be wide
spread effort there must be widespread interest ; and such interest can
only be evoked by an understanding of the vast importance of the
discovery to which these small and scattered inquiries do manifestly,
although remotely, tend.
The question is of nothing less than the possible establishment of a
cosmic law of the first order—a law which shall lie at the root of
Psychology, in the same way as the law of Evolution lies at the root of
Biology, and the law of Conservation at the root of Physics, and the
law of Uniformity at the root of Science itself. The possible law of
which I speak is that of the Interpenetration of Worlds ;—some
statement in terms as scientific as may be possible of the ancient belief
in a spiritual universe, co-existing with, and manifesting itself through,
the material universe which we know ;—somewhat as our hypothetical
ether, neither material nor spiritual, co-exists with, and manifests
itself through, our world of ponderable things.i I believe that the
i Or if the interstellar ether be in itself a conception too remote and disputable
to serve as starting-point for speculations more remote and disputable still, let us
embody in a short apologue the attitude of mind which might have existed on the
eve of a much simpler discovery. I quote a stray paragraph from the Cosmic
Qazet.lt ; but I beg the reader not to suppose that I identify myself with the hero of
the tale.
" Science among the Planetaries ; an Aphrodisian's Lucky Hit.
"Our readers are doubtless aware that the inhabitants of the small planet
Venus, although civilised, and endowed with a degree of mathematical insight very
creditable to planetaries, hav« never possessed the sense of sight. It appears that
that sense has recently been evolved amongst them, at a singular moment in their
scientific history. It has long been the first principle of Aphrodisian science that tho
material organism could be affected only by stimuli propagated through material
media ; as in the senses of touch, taste, and smell. Heat they explained as propa
gated by atmospheric conduction from some indiscoverable but intra-atmosplieric
hource. The sense of hearmg was long a difficulty, and the ignorant were fond of
The Subliminal Consciousness. 535
future of Experimental Psychology—to say no more than this—lies
in the question whether she can prove this law or no. If she fails, her
knowledge must needs remain for ever superficial and fragmentary.
If she succeeds, then indeed she may claim that all other Science
is but the ancilla psychologice, and all other quests the preparation and
preliminary for this quest which knows no end.
Mark, then, the inward pictures ; for now we see, as St. Paul has
it, " in a mirror, darkly "; and to pierce deepest into the universe
it may be needful to gaze within. To these messages perchance,
we have been slowly tending, through all the tidings borne to
us on air-wave or ethereal ray. For it may be that our out
ward senses have been leading us towards a sense pvofounder than
they all ;—have been shaping the symbolism, piercing the channels—
ccecai fores et pervius usus—whereby these sensory and motor
automatisms of script and voice and vision shall guide us among the
inward palace-halls which hold the hope of our race. Adparet
domus intus, el atria longa patescunt ;—who shall inventory Priam's
wealth within 1 or prophesy from those secret bride-chambers what
truth shall yet be born ?
Frederic W. H. Myers.
quoting it as a miraculous exception to the settled order of things. But when a
leading Aphrodisian satant proved that sound was transmitted by material atmo
spheric waves, the triumph of orthodox Science was complete, and the doctrine of
'molecular transmission ' was inculcated as self-evident truth.
" It happened, however, that on one of the days of clear sky so rare on that
planet, a random experimenter observed that the heat passing through a glass bowl
of water stung his hand at a particular point. He proved that no conduction could
thus concentrate the heat ; he assumed a new form of energy, which he called
radiation ; and he attempted to show that his so-called rays need not be transmitted
through a material medium at all. Continuing his experiment for years, whenever
the climate allowed, he gradually plotted out the apparent path of his imaginary
source of radiant heat ; and even located it at a distance far outside atmospheric
limits. He was naturally censured as flying in the plain face of reason in order to
solve the puzzle of a useless toy. Gradually, however, certain Aphrodisians
developed pigment-spots, which received a vague but novel sensation when turned in
the direction from whence the intensest heat came. These men felt with uneasiness
that there was something odd about the workings of Nature ; but they joined, never
theless, in the outcry against the innovator ; remarking with force that to revo
lutionise the Laws of the Universe in order to explain a few paltry residual
phenomena was like invoking Satanic agency to explain how the guinea-pig got into
the conjurers hat. Evolution, however, pursued its wonted course ; and at last a
number of Aphrodisians found themselves possessed of eyes. Some excuse was then
made for the long-deceased innovator's eccentricity, for it was evident that this blind
observer had, in point of fact, discovered the Sun."
536 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
IV.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
By Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
Introductory.
The experiments here to be recorded were a continuation of those
described in a paper on " Experiments in Thought-transference " by
Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr. G. A. Smith, published in the
Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 128. The percipients were two young clerks,
P. and T., with whom most of the previous experiments were made,
and a young lady, Miss B., who was also one of our former percipients.
In addition we had some experiments with three men in a less
established position in society, named Whybrew, Major and Adams,
who had come to Brighton in the train of a man giving hypnotic
exhibitions and had remained behind there.
Professor Sidgwick was prevented by other engagements from taking
much part in the present series, which has been carried out by Mrs.
Sidgwick, generally assisted by Miss Alice Johnson, and occasionally
by Dr. A. T. Myers and others. Mr. G. A. Smith again acted as
hypnotiser throughout, except on one evening when T. was hypnotised
by Professor Barrett, and on two or three occasions when several of
the subjects were hypnotised by Miss Charlesworth, a lady who came
to help us in the experiments for a few days in July, 1891, but who did
not succeed in obtaining thought-transference with these subjects. The
experiments were all made at Brighton, where the principal per
cipients lived, and we made them sometimes in Mr. Smith's rooms and
sometimes in our own lodgings.
It will be remembered that the previous series of experiments con
sisted chiefly in the guessing of numbers of two digits. Mr. Smith was
in all cases—of success at least—the agent, and when agent and per
cipient were in the same room the success was very marked. With
agent and percipient in different rooms there was some slight success
when P. was percipient, but none with T., and with Miss B. it was
scarcely tried.
The object of the present series of experiments was in the first
place to obtain more complete evidence of thought-transference with
agent and percipient in different rooms and, if possible, at greater
distances. We also varied the experiments partly with a view to
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 537
obtaining additional proof that no physical indications reached the
percipient consciously or unconsciously, and partly in the hope of
learning something about the conditions necessary to success. With
these objects, we made experiments in the transference of ideas other
than numbers, and sometimes employed automatic writing, table-tilting
and hallucinations as a means of getting at the percipient's impressions.
In addition we carried out a series of experiments in producing local
Jinesthesia and rigidity by, as we believe, mental suggestion.
It will be convenient to arrange the account of our experiments
under three heads, namely, experiments in transferring numbers,
experiments in transferring ideas other than numbers, experiments in
producing local anesthesia and rigidity by mental suggestion.
I. Experiments in Transferring Numbers of Two Digits.
The later trials made with P. and T. in 1889 were, it will be
remembered, very unsuccessful. Considering the brilliant success
obtained before with these percipients, this later failure led us to think
that their capacity might, for some unknown reason, be exhausted—at
least for the time. Possibly it was owing to the interest of the process
having worn off with its novelty, and the whole thing having become
dull and tiresome. For though, in their normal or waking state, they
knew little or nothing of it, their hypnotic consciousness recurred to
the number-guessing as a familiar and somewhat monotonous task.
In January, 1890, we were fortunate in again obtaining the
assistance of Miss B., with whom we had previously been able to try
experiments on two occasions only, and with this change in our per
cipients, success returned. We were able to carry on experiments with
her at intervals through 1890.
It will be unnecessary to dwell on experiments in number-guessing
carried on with agent and percipient in the same room, as the
possibility of this with P., T. and Miss B. was sufficiently shown by
the experiments of 1889. In the course of the present series, we only
tried experiments under these conditions in order to encourage the
percipients, or in the hope of throwing light on the causes of failure
under different conditions.
Description of Booms in which the Experiments were carried on.
Our first attempts with agent and percipient in different rooms,
with Miss B. as percipient, were made at an " arch " on the beach at
Brighton, occupied at the time by Mr. Smith. The arch was
fitted up with two floors, the upper entirely occupied by a sitting-room,
measuring about 1 5 feet square, out of which a staircase—not enclosed
538 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
above, but closed at the bottom by a door—led down to a lobby. The
ground floor consisted of this lobby with small rooms at the back and
on one side. A rough plan will make the arrangement clearer.
Upstairs
Room
Window |~
Back room
Kitchen Lobby
Door
The partitions were of matchboarding. The upper floor was covered
with a very thick Axminster carpet with felt underneath it. The height
of the lower rooms was 7 feet 5 inches, and the space between the upper
and lower rooms fully 10 inches, including the floor above and match
board ceiling below. The separation of agent in the lobby and per
cipient upstairs was not, for auditory purposes, so great as it would have
been in two floors of an ordinary house, because of the staircase, but
the words in ordinary conversation could not be distinguished from one
floor to the other by persons of normal powers of hearing, except by
placing the ear against the door or the partition of the staircase. We
tried whether Miss B. when hypnotised could catch any words of a
conversation going on below, but though she has very good hearing she
appeared to be unable to do so.
When upstairs at the Arch, the percipients' position in the room
was often varied, as well as the direction in which they faced.
Details of the Two First Evenings.
The first experiments of this series with Miss B. were made on
January 6th, 1890. The persons present were Miss B., Professor
Barrett, Mr. Smith, Mre. Sidgwick, Miss Johnson and T.; but T., with
whom we had been experimenting, was hypnotised and not attending-
to what was going on. Mr. Smith hypnotised Miss B. and tried three
numbers while in the room with her and speaking to her. There was
some success with these, and then Mr. Smith and Miss Johnson 'went
downstairs to the lobby. Miss Johnson drew a number at random out
of a bag containing all the numbers from 1 0 to 90 and handed it to Mr.
Smith, who then tried to communicate it mentally to Miss B. A little
bell or gong was rung upstairs by Mrs. Sidgwick as soon as a guess had
been made and again when the party upstairs were ready to begin
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 53D
another. As the bell was rung, Mrs. Sidgwick, who had previously
been put en rapport with Miss B., said : " There's another, Miss B.,"
or words to that effect ; and Miss B. began to look out for an impres
sion, which usually came to her in a visual form. Mrs. Sidgwick noted
down her guesses and remarks, while Miss Johnson noted the number
that she drew from the bag, and at intervals we compared notes.
Eight guesses were made in this way. The first two were failures,
but in the remaining six the first digit was right in each case. More
over, in two out of the six, Miss B. first gave the completely right
number, but then changed her mind as to the second digit. Thus, the
number being 21, she said : "It's never another 2, is it ? 2 and a 1 ?
8—28." And again, with the last of the six, which was 41, she said :
" 4—better not go on doing any more or I shall never be right, I'm
sure. 4—1 1 Looks like a 1 : 46." This occurred on other occasions
also. It is hardly necessary to say that, as Mrs. Sidgwick was herself
wholly ignorant of the number, it was impossible for her remarks to
give any indications to Miss B.
On the next evening, seventeen experiments were made under the
same conditions, except that at first Professor Barrett took Miss John
son's place downstairs, and that after the first eleven guesses T. came
in, was hypnotised, and also tried guessing upstairs. Miss B.'s success
was about the same in proportion as on the previous evening. T.'s
guesses were different from hers, and she did not seem to be influenced
by them at the time,1 but it seems possible that they affected her
impressions afterwards, for out of the six numbers guessed after T.
had come, two of Miss B.'s—one quite wrong, and one with the second
digit only right—were numbers that had been guessed by T.—in one
case two, and in the other three, guesses before. In her other four
guesses, out of these six, the first digit was right.
Attempts made on this evening to transfer impressions of coloured
light flashed in Mr. Smith's eyes, and of other sensations and objects,
failed. Nor could Miss B. tell in what position the number looked at
by Mr. Smith was held.
It would be tedious to describe each day's experiments minutely,
and the following table will, perhaps, show sufliciently what was done.
We add at the end of it, for comparison, the results of experiments
with agent and percipient in the same room.
i They were not put en rapport with one another, but on one occasion, at least,
Miss B. must have heard T.'s guess, for she said emphatically that she saw a different
number.
540 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
TABLE I.
Experiments in guessing numbers of two digits, the agent and per
cipient being in different rooms, or in a room and passage divided by a
closed door. Percipient, Miss B. Agent, Mr. Smith only.
(1) Place, the Arch. Percipient upstairs; Agent downstairs.
Number of Trials and
Degree ok Success.
Digits
reversed. >.
'c
Quite
right c
si S
E
ss
3!
Bate 1890. •*
88
3 NOTkS.
E
& K
c
H
Jan. 6
„ 7
„ 8
6•
10
2
4
3
8 \ Professor Barrett present in addition
1 1 1 17
6
1 to the usual party.
It 2 This set was done under very unfa
vourable conditions, as there were
three other percipients in the room
guessing at the same time, which
was very confusing.
„ n
„ 12
Mar. 17
„ 18
1
9
3
1
1
It
1
8 10
8
6
4
4
20
33
12
8
11
13
•j
2
1
1
1
1 1
22 5 Drs. Myers, Penrose and Lancaster
present in addition to the usual
party.
„ 23 2 6 10 18 Drs. Myers and Rolleston present in
addition to the usual party.
July 8
„ 9 1
1
3
1
2
2
3
6
3
3
Nov. 6
„ 10
1 1 Dr. Myers present.
1 2
Totals 20 5 .55 11 r.7 148
(2) Place, the Arch. Percipient downstairs ; Agent upstairs.
Mar. 17
„ 23
June 16
4
2
1
1 l 18
12
3
7 3 Miss McKerlie present.
Totals 7 4 22 33
* Two of these were guessed quite rightly first and then changed. Miss B.f
like all our percipients, generally made only one guess for each number. When she
had more than one impression, we counted the one that she finally decided on. As
sho was never told before the conclusion of an experiment whether her first guess was
right or not (and this was also unknown to the person talking to her) the final
guess was, for the purpose of calculating the probabilities, equivalent to a first guess.
t The first digit of the number drawn was guessed first.
Experiments in Thought-Transferencc. 541
(3) Place, Mrs. Sidgwick's lodgings. Percipient in room and
Agent in passage.
Number of Trials and
Degree of Success.
Qultu
right. t
fs
a
Si
i*(
Wrong. 4 Notes.
Date 1890.
P
3
&
Mar. 19
Dec 17
i •J
12
3
27
2
2
n« 2 These guesses were made by table-
tilting, Miss 15. normal, having her
hands on the table. Miss Robertson
present on December 17, 19 and 20.
„ 19
„ 19
1
1
3 1
1
7
4 5 Agent in room across passage, but only
one of the two intervening doors
closed.
„ -20
„ 20
('
2
:i
Guesses made verbally by Miss B.
hypnotised, having her hands on
the table.
1
1
4
1
1
2
4
6
Guesses tilted by the table, at the
1
1
7
14
same time as the above.
Miss B. hypnotised, guessing in the
n 2
usual way.
Guesses made by table-tilting, Miss B.
normal,having herhands on the table.
Totals 7 3 23 8 30 71
Totals of
(1) (2)& (3)
together
27 8 85 23 109 252
26 3 27 21 69 146 These were the results obtained during
the same period by Mr. Smith as
sole agent m the room with Miss B.
Remarks on Table I.
We may first remind the reader that the most probable number of
completely right guesses by chance alone was 1 in 81, or between 3 and 4
in 252. The odds against getting as many as 27 right in 252 trials by
chance are enormous.
There is a rather marked culmination of success on January 12th
—an evening on which we did a large number of experiments—and it
is interesting that, of the complete successes, six occurred in the last
twelve. The fact, however, of our success on this occasion made us
desirous of obtaining the same success under other conditions of place
and subject to be guessed, so that less time was devoted to this par-
* Two of these were guessed quite rightly first and then changed.
I This was guessed quite rightly first and then changed.
2 o
542 Mrs. H. Sidgtvick and Miss Alice Johnson.
ticular form of experiment after this. External noises did not seem
to interfere with success. On the 12th of January the noise of the
sea and of people passing and talking was very distinct, the window
being open, and there were also a great many people walking on the
esplanade over the Arch,1 as it happened to be a particularly fine
evening.
Another noticeable point is the very large prevalence of guesses in
which the first digit was right over those in which the second was right.
The first digit ought of course to be right by chance more often than
the second in the proportion of 10 to 8-1, because of the exclusion of
numbers above 90, and the impossibility of the first digit being 0. But
the difference, especially in January, was enormously in excess of what
could be thus accounted for. And—what is more remarkable—the same
excess does not appear in experiments in which both agent and per
cipient were in the same room. We can only suggest that Mr. Smith
first unconsciously concentrated his mind on the first digit and, when he
was in the room and knew therefore when one had been guessed, then
transferred his attention to the other. When out of the room, he
could not, of course, follow the process of guessing in the same way.
Against this hypothesis, however, we must observe that Miss B. some
times seemed to see first—or, at any rate, named first—numbers
which she ultimately, and sometimes rightly, placed second. And that
P., whose guesses will be spoken of presently, also exhibited a
tendency to guess the first digit more often right than the second ;
but that he did so—contrary to his practice in 1889—with the agent
in the room with him as well as when they were in separate rooms.
The next point we would call attention to is the large proportion of
failures when the agent was upstairs and the percipient downstairs at
the Arch. We think this may possibly have been due to Miss B.'s not
being at her ease downstairs. She was always sensitive to appear
ances, whether hypnotised or not, and some of her remarks showed
that, though she made no objection to being led downstairs in the
hypnotic trance and seated in the lobby, yet she knew where she was,
and was a little afraid of someone coming in from outside and seeing her.
This supposition is somewhat confirmed by the difficulty being overcome
on June 17th, when, on the spur of the moment, Mrs. Sidgwick sug
gested for the first time placing Miss B. in the back room. On.
this occasion P. was joint agent with Mr. Smith, so that the experiments
do not appear in the foregoing table, but in Table II., where it will be
i On the other hand, a great hubbub outside, which sometimes occurred owing to
a quarrel or a showman on the beach, was liable to disturb the hypnotised person
without his exactly knowing why he was uneasy. Our notes do not, however, record
any such disturbance in the case of Miss B.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 543
seen that there were three completely successful trials in eighteen. The
conditions as regards possible auditory indications were naturally less
good with the agent upstairs, his movements being then more audible
to the percipient and to those with her. Having succeeded under
these conditions, therefore, we thought it needless to multiply ex
periments.
In sixty-one of the above experiments, either P. or T. were joint
percipients with Miss B., that is to say, they were also trying to guess
the number. This does not seem on the whole to have modified the
result in any marked way, the proportion of Miss B.'s correct guesses
under these circumstances being very much the same as when she was
guessing by herself. In such experiments the percipients were rarely
en rapport with one another and were not aware of hearing each other
speak. Nevertheless, it is pretty certain that they were influenced
occasionally by each other's guesses, as mentioned above (see also
Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 163, 164). It happens that no completely
successful guess was ever made jointly.
Distances between Agent and PercipieiU.
At Mrs. Sidgwick's lodgings, the distance between the agent and
percipient was generally greater than at the Arch. The passage, or
landing, where Mr. Smith was, was 6 feet wide, and he was on the
further side of it, Miss Johnson sitting between him and the door. On
December 20th, the percipient sat 13 feet from the door. On the 17th,
she sat about 9 feet from it, in another direction. On the 19th, her
position was, we believe, the same as on the 17th, but any statement as
to this was accidentally omitted from our notes. The corresponding
distances between agent and percipient in a straight line must have
been about 17 feet and 12 feet, whereas, at the Arch, the distance
between their heads was from 10 to 12 feet according to Miss B.'s
position.
Nature and Development of the Percipients' Impressions.
During all the above recorded experiments up to December, Miss B.
was hypnotised, and her impressions about the numbers came to her in
a visual form, generally seeming to develop gradually. Sometimes
(though only on July 8th, among the experiments so far enumerated)
we opened her eyes and made her see the number as a hallucination
on paper, telling her to trace it in pencil. When she did this, the
number sometimes appeared in a fragmentary way, so that she could
not tell at first what it was. It was liable to appear and disappear, as
happened when the images were seen with closed eyes, and
occasionally one number would come on the top of another and then go
away again. ^
544 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
When the agents were at considerably greater distances than those
above recorded, the impressions were apt to be unusually transient and
sometimes were not visualised at all. In these more distant experi
ments, too, Miss B. frequently complained of the numbers being far
off. " They're all muddled up, the numbers seem miles off," she said
on one occasion. She did not recognise this as due to the distance
of the agent (who was then in a room two floors below her), of which,
indeed, she was not supposed to be aware. T. also complained of
the apparent distance of the numbers when the agent was out of the
room. Sometimes the percipient had no impression at all, and this
occurred much more often when the agent was at a distance than
when he was near.
On one evening, when the agent (P.) was at our lodgings and the
percipients Miss B. and T. at the Arch, we told them that they would
hear the numbers repeated, instead of seeing them. The suggestion
took effect without difficulty, but the illusion of the nearness of the
agent could not be produced. T., on being asked if he could distinguish
P.'s voice, replied : " Oh, you know it is so low, so far away. He says,
hush ! hush ! and then whispers."
Experiments with Table-tilting.
In December, we tried whether good results would be obtained
by placing the hypnotised subjects' hands on a table, which they
tilted unconsciously, tilting out the numbers, etc. They had not
tried table-tilting before, they told us, and we had to educate them to
it, but this was quickly done. The first attempt was made on
December 15th, when Miss B. and T. had their hands on the table
and some experiments with Mr. Smith as agent in the same room were
successful. In the experiments recorded in Table I. for December
17th, Miss B. in a normal condition was sitting at the table with Mrs.
Sidgwick and Miss Robertson, and tilted out the numbers with it.
During both the sets of experiments recorded in Table L for December
19th she was hypnotised and her hands were on a tilting table, but P.'s
or T.'s were also on the same table, so we have only included the verbal
guesses she was making at the same time, the results of the table-tilting
not being clearly due to her. On this day we also tried some rather
unsuccessful experiments in which Miss B. tried to guess numbers by
table-tilting in a normal state, T. being agent with Mr. Smith.
On December 20th, four experiments were made in which Miss B.,
hypnotised, guessed in the usual way and by table-tilting at the
same time. The results are shown bracketed together in Table I. and
are both counted. Then seven experiments were made with Miss B.
guessing in the usual way, without the table, and the last fourteen were
made while she was in a perfectly normal state, not guessing verbally at
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 545
all, but tilting out the numbers by the table automatically, apparently
quite unconscious that her own muscles were moving it.
We had tried a few experiments with Miss B. in January in
which she simply tried to get a mental impression of the number in
the normal state, and we obtained three complete successes in fifteen
trials, but in these trials the agent was in the room with her.
Agency of P. and T.
Between June and Decembe 1890, a number of experiments
•were tried under conditions similar to the above, but with P. or T. as
joint agents with Mr. Smith, and sometimes as sole agents. We have
thought it best to tabulate these separately, because P. and T. cannot
be regarded as responsible for the bona fides of the experiments in the
same way that Mr. Smith and ourselves are. At the same time, in the
particular class of experiment we are at present discussing—the
transference of numbers from one room to another with a closed door
between—all methods of signalling except rather coarse auditory ones
seem to be excluded and, although the agents (who were of course
under close observation all the time) were not always noiseless, no such
signals were detected.i
i There were a few indications that sounds may now and then have determined
guesses, just as the guess of a co-percipient sometimes did. On one occasion, when P.
was agent and Miss B. percipient in the same room, Mrs. Verrall who was present
tried to infer the. number from sounds (coughs, etc,) made by P., and out of four
guesses twice guessed the same as Miss B., but they were not the right numbers.
On the other hand, Mrs. Sidgwick several times, while experiments were going on,
tried—without telling the subjects so,—to suggest numbers to them by indications such
as tapping slightly on their hands, or their chairs, in order to test theirsensitiveness to
hints of the kind. They never named the number she was trying to suggest, though
sometimes the sum of the two digits was the same in both cases, e.g., 37 was guessed
for 10 and 85 for 70 consecutively in a group of four trials, but little stress can be laid
on so few instances.
546 Alrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnwn.
TABLE II.
Experiments in guessing numbers of two digits, the agent and per
cipient being in different rooms, or in a room aud 2oassage divided by a
dosed door. Percipient, Hiss U. Agents, Mr. Smith and P. or T.
(1) Place, the Arch. Percipient upstairs ; Agents, Mr. Smith and P.,
downstairs.
...
E o
if
— ~
Wrong.
i S
3 £
Date 1S!)0.
'S
Of
B
£
S =
t 8*3
: "-
NOTES.
'.If
- s f. z
5
June 1t1
„ 30
3
3
o
1
1 Miss McKerlie present, besides
1 3 :; 11
usual party.
Dr. Moll present. T. joined the
(2) Place, the Arch. Percipient downstairs ; Agents, Mr.
Smith and P. upstairs.
agents during two experiments.
Juuc 1ft
„ 17 3 5 1
3
9
2 5
18
This set was done immediately
after the successful set above,on
June Hi, and without awaking
Miss 15. in bctween. She com
plained much thatshe could not
see the numbers. Miss McKerlie
present on June 16th and 17th.
Dec. 19
(3) At Mrs. Sidgwick's lodgings. Percipient in room ;
Agents, Mr. Smith and P. or T., in passage.
1 i 1 31 Guesses made verbally by Miss
B. hypnotised, with her hands
on the table. Mr. Smith and
T. agents.
I
1
f i
VI
3 3 J
1
Guesses tilted by the table at
the same time as the above.
1
1
Miss B. normal, guessing by
table-tilting. Mr. Smith and
T. agents.
. i
ii
2
3
3
3
Miss B. normal, guessing by
table-tilting. Mr. Smith anil
T. agents, m room across pas
sage, but only one of the two
intervening doors closed.
Totals 9 2 9 7 24 2 r.3
Miss B. hypnotised, guessing
verbally ; T. joint percipient ;
the table, with both their hands,
on it, tilting at the same time.
Mr. Smith and P. agent- in
room across passage, but only
one door closed.
7 4 4 10 2 27 Results obtained during June
and July with the agents, Mr.
Smith and P. orT., in the same
room with the percipient.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 547
TABLE III. Percijrient, Miss B. Agents, P. or T. alone.
Place, the Arch. Percipient upstairs ; Agent downstairs. Period,
July, August and December, 1890.
i
First
Digit
only
right.
Second
Digit
only
right. §
JZ
.1' Wrong.
!
p.
Totals.
Agent. s C Notes.
5
c
s
•a
5
o
S5
P.
T.
2
1
l 6
1
2 10
1
1 22
6
Both the successes were on
August25th,when eightguesscs
were maile, of which two were
right and four half right.
Totals 3 l 7 2 14 1 28
Agent.
T.
3
3
2 4 1 2
7
2 14
10
Results obtained during the same
period with P. or T. sole agent,
m the same room with the per
cipient.
(i 2 4 1 9 2 24
It will be seen that the trials made with P. or T. as sole agents
seem sufficient to show that they had some power in this capacity.
Mr. Smith, P. and T. were the only successful agents in Miss B.'s
case among those we tried. We ourselves both failed, whether in
the same room with her or not, and so did one or two others who made
a few trials.
Distant Experiments.
We were extremely anxious to succeed with agent and percipient
at greater distances than in the experiments recorded above, and
nearly four hundred trials were made with Miss B. as percipient,
and the agent or agents either in a different building or divided
from her by at least two closed doors and a passage ; but we obtained
practically no success.
The reason of the failure is difficult to surmise, unless it was the
effect of the distance on the imagination of the agent or the percipient.
We did not usually tell the percipient where the agent was, and at first
used to try to produce the illusion that he was near, but we think that
the percipient was generally aware in a vague way of his absence.
Experiments of this kind were generally much more wearisome than
those at closer quarters, especially as most of them were timed by
watches, instead of signals being given for beginning and ending, and
this, on account of the varying length of time before the percipient
had an impression, entailed a good deal of tiresome waiting on the part
548 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
of the percipient and of tediously prolonged thinking of the number
on the part of the agent. We usually found it necessary to allow two
minutes for each guess. But we do not think that this is by itself
sufficient to account for the failure, as, in about one hundred of the
experiments, we communicated with each other at the conclusion of
each guess without better results.
Deferred Successes.
As in the experiments of 1889 (see Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 101), it
happened in a few instances that, when the agent was looking at a
number, the percipient guessed the number he had been looking at
in the trial immediately preceding, without having had any opportunity
of learning by normal means what that number was. Such "deferred
successes " are seen in the following series of five consecutive trials
with Miss B. as percipient, which occurred on July 7th, 1890.
Nos. drawn. Nos. rjaesscd. Agents.
24 No impression \ Mr. Smith and T. , in the room
16 24 J behind a screen.
30 16 }
47 39 > T. alone, behind the screen.
65 66 I
Other examples occurred with T. as percipient in the following
series of three consecutive trials on July 10th, 1891. He was upstairs
at the Arch with Miss Johnson and Mr. Smith, and the agent P. was
downstairs with Mrs. Sidgwick.
Nos. dratm. Nos. guessed.
63 28
26 63
46 26
Miss B.'s Number Habits.
As the numbers were drawn at random, Miss B.'s number habits
cannot, of course, in the long run affect the probability of success.
Still there is a certain interest in analysing her guesses and comparing
them with the numbers drawn. She made 997 guesses altogether, of
which eighty-nine were successful. As there were eighty-one different
numbers, evenly distributed guesses would have given about twelve to
each. The actual frequency of her naming of individual numbers
ranged from nought to thirty-five, while the frequency of drawing of
individual numbers ranged from two to twenty-two. The number least
often drawn (only twice) was 39, and that most often drawn (twenty-
two times) was 55. She guessed 55 only seven times (once rightly).
The number named by her thirty-five times (three times rightly) was 58,
and this was drawn seventeen times. No other numbers were named
so often as thirty times. The following numbers were named twenty
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 549
times or more :—14, 15, 18, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 52,
54, 56, 63, 64, 65, 67. The numbers named between twelve and twenty
times were 12, 16, 27, 38, 43, 51, 53, 62, 68, 73, 74, 86. Among num
bers named less than twelve times, those named once only were 19, 49,
79, 80 ; those named twice only were 29, 60, 82 ; those named three
times only were 33, 39, 44, 66, 77, 88. The only numbers in the bag
which were never named were 40 and 90. Three times Miss B. named
numbers above 90.
Miss B. exhibited more marked number habits as regards individual
digits, and these differed for first and second digits, as the following
table shows :—
Digit named 1 2 3 4 5 6 | 7 8 9 0
Number of times it was
named as the first digit. 136
70
171
109
157
107
70
153
172
135
135 88 05
146
3
21
Number of times it was
named astheseconddigit. 1241 94 38
I
Her successful guesses were very unequally distributed. It will be
more instructive here to consider only those made under the conditions
which did not appear to interfere with success, those, namely, in
which Mr. Smith, P., or T. were agents and not divided from
Miss B. by more than one closed door. There were 547 experi
ments under these conditions (including some done by table-tilting
in which P. and T. shared) of which eighty-one were successes.
This gives an average of six draws and one successful guess to each
number. As a matter of fact, the frequency of drawing varied from
one in the case of 66 i to sixteen in the case of 26, and the frequency
of correct guessing from nought in a large number of cases (including
26) to eight in the case of 51. The larger proportion of correct
guesses among the 547 trials now under consideration involves, as
might be expected, a somewhat closer correspondence between the
frequency of drawing and of correct guessing than is observable when
the whole 997 trials are considered, but the only very marked instance
of such correspondence is the case of 51, which was drawn fourteen
times and guessed correctly eight times. The number 56, which was
guessed correctly seven times, turned up eight times. The number
25 was guessed correctly four times and turned up seven times ;
and 16, 41, 58, 622 were guessed correctly three times and turned up
four, eight, eight and five times respectively. Twelve different numbers
i It turned up another time, but was then accidentally read as 99.
* 51, 56 and 25 were named by Miss B. altogether nineteen, twenty-three and
twenty-nine times respectively. 10, 58 and 62 were al«o named above the average
number of times, but 41 was only named seven time-!.
550 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
were guessed correctly twice each. Of these, nine turned up more
than six times, two six times, and one five times. Twenty-six numbers
were correctly guessed only once, and thirty-six not at all. Of those
never guessed correctly, thirteen turned up over six times.
Other Percijrients than Miss B.
Miss B. was undoubtedly our best percipient. With Mr. Smith as
agent, T. had no success in number-guessing worth quoting during the
nineteen months over which the present series of experiments extended,
even when agent and percipient were in the same room. P. did rather
better, for in ninety-one attempts with agent and percipient in separate
rooms with a closed door between them, he was quite right five times,
and in addition gave the first digit rightly eighteen times and the second
three times. This is perhaps sufficient to show the existence of some
agency other than chance, and the success is not very inferior to that
which he had during the same period when the agent was in the room
with him. Most of his success under both conditions was during the
latter part of the period.
With two of the new percipients already mentioned—Whybrew
and Adams—we obtained three complete successes out of sixteen
and twelve guesses respectively, agent and percipient being in the
same room. The only interest of this is in the fact that they were
fresh percipients. We did not succeed with them at greater distances,
but the number of trials made was small.
It is curious that though T. was the least successful on the whole of
our three principal percipients, he showed greater signs of success with
other agents than P. or Miss B. did. One day, when he had been
hypnotised by Professor Barrett, he named two numbers rightly and
one with digits in reverse order out of thirteen thought of by Professor
Barrett. The latter had his hand on T.'s forehead. The next day he
failed, but in 1889 we had found him very variable.
His success with ourselves was also slightly above what might be
expected by chance. We had between us seventy trials with him and
three complete successes, all of which occurred on the same day out of
seventeen trials, but we can lay no stress on this, because the number of
half successes was below the most probable number, which renders it of
course more likely that the complete successes were the result of chance.
P. showed signs of success one day with Major Hughes as agent,
but it was promise rather than performance, and no completely
successful guesses were made.
Comparison of Verbal Guesses with those made unconsciously.
With the method—used only on one evening, November 10th, 1890
—of getting the percipient to guess numbers both verbally and with a
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 551
planchette,' the two guesses were in most cases different. This was
especially so with Miss B., the amount of coincidence between the two
sets of guesses being decidedly below what chance would give—only one
digit the same in the same place in twenty pairs of guesses. These
guesses took place all on one evening but in two sets, experiments in the
transference of " mental pictures " being tried in the interval. With
P., on the other hand, the connection between the corresponding guesses
was close. Out of six consecutive trials, in one case the two guesses
were the same, in two cases they contained the same digits but in
reverse order, and in the other three cases the second digit was the
same in both guesses.
There was a curious variety in the results with T. He first made
six consecutive double guesses, the only coincidence between them being
that the first digit of one of his verbal guesses was the same as the
second digit of the corresponding guess with the planchette. He was
then awakened for a few minutes and rehypnotised, when another
double guess, with no coincidence in it, was made. He was then slightly
roused and again put into a deeper state than before, in which, however,
no impressions occurred to him. He was therefore completely awakened
and rehypnotised, and five fresh trials with the planchette were made.
In the first four of these he said exactly what the planchette wrote,,
but in the fifth something quite different again.
In the course of this whole evening, the guesses m.'tde with planchette
both by Miss B. and T. were decidedly less successful than their verbal
guesses.
On the same evening, five experiments (fully described in a
later part of this paper) were made in the transference of " mental
pictures " to Miss B. as percipient, in which she was writing with
the planchette and describing her impressions verbally at the same time.
In only three cases did the planchette write anything intelligible and
what was written seemed to be chiefly vague and confused reminiscences
of previous impressions, one partially correct guess only being made
with the planchette, while Miss B. made two verbally.
We thought that the subjects were not aware of what the plan
chette was writing, whether they guessed the same verbally or not. Thus
Miss Johnson once asked Miss B. : "What did planchette write? do you
know 1" Miss B. shook her head and answered : "No. I see 12 ; I
suppose it writes 1 2." It had actually written 25. She probably supposed
it had written 12 because she had been told that it would write the
correct numbers, and her seeing 12 made her suppose that was correct.
With the table-tilting, the subjects were certainly sometimes con
scious of what numbers were being tilted. In the first experiments of
i A well-known instrument for facilitating automatic writing.
552 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
this kind they were not guessing verbally at the same time and
therefore had nothing to distract their attention from the movements
of the table, in which they were much interested. This was when they
were hypnotised. When Miss. B. was table-tilting in a normal
condition, she was fully aware of its movements, though apparently
not at all aware of what number was going to be tilted, as her conscious
impression as to the number looked at by Mr. Smith was generally
different from the number tilted by the table, whether she was
hypnotised or not. T., on the other hand, when hypnotised, followed
the table almost exactly in six consecutive verbal guesses without
apparently being at all aware that he was doing so. Thus the table
tilted 82, after which he said "82," and when Miss Johnson asked
bim what the table had tilted, he replied that he did not take any
notice of it. Probably this was a perfectly genuine remark, as there
were other indications of the table movements belonging to a separate
stratum of his hypnotic consciousness ; especially the fact that when he
was not en rapport with Mrs. Sidgwick and apparently not aware of
& word she said, the table, with his hands on it, responded to her
readily, and this spontaneously, without any suggestion that it should
be so'having been made by Mr. Smith or ourselves.
With Miss B. thirty-seven trials were made in which she was
guessing verbally and by table-tilting at the same time (excluding
those in which P. or T., or both, had their hands on the table also).
Her verbal guesses were slightly more successful than those with the
table, but the success in both sets of guesses was very far below her
average. It seems probable that the condition of doing two things at
once was an unfavourable one, though she showed no external signs of
being confused or in any way disturbed by it.
II. Experiments in Transferring Ideas other than Numbers.
Transference of Diagrams.
Experiments were tried in transferring words, letters, playing cards,
objects and diagrams looked at by Mr. Smith, but there was no success
worth quoting with any of our percipients except P., and with him only
with a set of diagrams which consisted of twenty-five shapes represent
ing familiar objects cut out in gold or silver paper and pasted on to
black cards. These were shuffled together and one drawn at random
and hung on to a screen behind the percipient and between him and
the agent. P. was so much accustomed to seeing numbers that we
thought it well to educate him to other impressions by telling him
definitely in the first instance, on June 14th, 1890, what he was to see.
Mr. Smith therefore said to him : " I am looking at a star—a picture
or diagram of a star—you'll see it presently." P. : "I don't see it."
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 553
(After an interval :) "Yes, I do; a golden star " (right). Mr. Smith :
" How many points has it?" P.: "It keeps coming and going—wait a
minute " ; presently he said—" Five " (right).
He was then told to look out for another picture, no hint being
given of what it was. A golden cock was drawn out of the pack and
he gradually made the following statements, without any hints being
given : " An eagle with wings spread out—gold on a dark chocolate
ground." i The next one drawn was a golden basket ; as to this he had
several shifting impressions, none right. In the course of the experi
ments, in which he sometimes took the part of agent for T. and Miss B.,.
P. became familiar with all these diagrams, so that he knew what sort
of thing to look out for and that they were limited in number. This
enabled us to calculate the most probable number of successes by
chance alone, namely 1 in 25.
On the second evening, July 2nd, 1890, he named correctly two—a
jug and a basket—out of five, Miss B., as well as Mr. Smith, looking at
the diagrams on this occasion.
Twenty-five further trials of the same kind were made ; in fifteen of
these Mr. Smith alone was agent, and P. guessed five right ; in ten
Mr. Smith and T. together were agents, and P. guessed four right, but
one of the four was a second guess. Thus, out of a total of 30 trials,
where the chance success would have been 1-2, 10 successes were
actually obtained. The five successes obtained on July 3rd, when Mr.
Smith alone was agent, may be quoted. After three failures Miss
Johnson, who was sitting behind the screen with Mr. Smith, selected
the jug. Mrs. Sidgwick, who knew none of the subjects chosen, was the
only one who spoke to P., the others remaining silent after they knew
what the subject was in each case. P. said : " I saw a black thing com
ing up—a sort of square thing." Mrs. Sidgwick : " All right, that's the
background." P.: " Why, there it is, that jug I saw the other week." He-
then explained to Mrs. Sidgwick that the jug was " put up" (we generally
used this expression in telling the percipients that an impression
would come to them) where he could see it much better than the-
previous pictures had been, and tried at her request to explain to her
where it was. " You see that hook on the wall there and the shadow it
casts," etc. His eyes were closed, so that any image he had of the room
was a visionary one, but he spoke and pointed as though clearly localis
ing the hook, etc. Mrs. Sidgwick could not discover that there was any
real object corresponding to the hook.
5th Diagram. The Cock.—P. said : " Why, it's the bird, but it's not.
fair putting it up like that—it's not in the same place as the jug."
6</t Diagram. The Slar.—'P. had no impression.
The cock's wings were not spread out.
.554 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
7th Diagram. The Basket.—P. said: "I saw a handle. I do believe
that's that basket."
8lh Diagram. The Cross.—P. said : " A cross."
9th Diagram. The Arrow.—P. said : " The dart—arrow, I mean.:'
This impression was slow in coming, and the next six experiments tried
on this evening were complete failures. It should be mentioned that in
four out of the five successful cases, the diagram had not been drawn at
random, but selected by Miss Johnson—in three cases on the ground
that P. had guessed it successfully on previous occasions. She merely
noted the fact herself at the time, without making any remark on it to
anyone present, and it does not seem likely that the selection materially
affected the amount of success, as three out of the last six diagrams on
this evening, none of which were guessed correctly, were selected in the
same way.
We had also a set of diagrams which were mere nameless arrange
ments of lines, but with these P. had very little success. He had
looked at all of them beforehand, and the impressions that came to
him seemed to be chiefly memories of what he had seen. The amount
of coincidence with what the agent was concentrating his mind on at
the moment was only slightly above what chance would have given.
Transference of Hallucinations.
An experiment somewhat like the transference of "mental pictures"
—to be described below—sometimes succeeded. It consisted in making
one of our percipients by verbal suggestion see a hallucinatory picture
on a card, and then letting him show the card to another, who would
occasionally, after looking at it for a few minutes, see a similar picture
without verbal suggestion as to its subject. One of our earliest and most
successful experiments of this kind was described by Professor Sidgwick
in a Presidential address. (See Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 434.) They were
interesting and striking, but evidentially of less value perhaps than the
others, as it was difficult to cany them out under strict conditions, and
we succeeded less well with them later.
Transference of " Mental Pictures." Introductory—Conditions.
We spent more time and obtained more success in experiments in
which the agent, Mr. Smith, was merely concentrating his mind on
a " mental picture " of some sort, without looking at any real re
presentation. In some of the later trials, when the subject was a
simple one, he used occasionally to sketch it roughly on a small piece
of paper, to help him to keep his attention fixed on it. But we did
not find that more success followed when this was done.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 555
We generally, though not always, arranged that the person who was
put en rapport with the percipient and carried on the conversation with
him during the course of each experiment, at the same time taking
notes of his remarks, should be entirely ignorant of the subject of the
picture.
The subjects of the pictures were always chosen by one of us and
communicated to Mr. Smith in writing, even when he was not in the
same room with the percipient. Mr. Smith did not speak to the perci
pient after he had been told the subject of a " mental picture," until
the percipient's impression had been completely described and written
down, except on the occasions noted at the time, and mentioned below,
and when he spoke it was generally at Mrs. Sidgwick's request. Nor,
after being told the subject of the picture, did he hypnotise the perci
pient, or awake him, or open his eyes, or put him into a deeper
hypnotic state, or do anything involving contact, except in the few
cases where we shall mention it.
Nature of the Percipients' Impressions.
The percipient was sometimes made to receive the impression as a
fully externalised visual hallucination seen with open eyes ; usually as a
picture on a blank white card on which he had been told that a picture
would appear, but occasionally in a crystal used in the same way. Mr.
Myers' similar experiments with P. and T. in which a crystal was used
.(described above, p. 459) should be considered in connection with ours.
Latterly, the percipients were generally induced to see the pictures
when hypnotised with closed eyes.
Details of Experiments.
In order that the reader may be enabled to form a fair estimate of
the amount of success obtained and to judge how much of it, if any,
was due to verbal suggestion, deliberately or unconsciously given, we
think it necessary to give full details of the experiments which we regard
as successful, and we have added, for various reasons which will be
apparent, accounts of some failures. All the remarks quoted from
any speaker were taken down verbatim at the time, the note-taker
generally endeavouring to record at least all that was said by the agent
and percipient, and in most cases the whole of the notes are repro
duced. The result is that this part of our paper has run to great
length, and for convenience we prefix here a tabulated list of all the
experiments tried (except those with one percipient, Adams, who
obtained no success), numbered and arranged in chronological order.
This can be skipped by the reader who does not wish to go into details.
The fourth column of the table describes the way in which the
556 Jl/rs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
impressions came to the percipient, whether as hallucinations seen on a
card or in a crystal, or with closed eyes. The fifth column gives the
position of the agent in relation to the percipient. The words
" upstairs " and " downstairs" refer to the two rooms, already described,
at the Arch. The percipient was never downstairs except in the cases
where it is mentioned. The word " speaking " in this column means
that the agent spoke after he knew what the subject of the picture
was to be. Whenever this word does not occur, it is to be understood
that he said nothing whatever after he knew the subject. In the
full report of the successful experiments that follows, his remarks, if
any, are generally given as well as the percipient's. In only one
experiment (No. 38) was contact between agent and percipient
deliberately employed, and then without success. It occurred, how
ever, in another case, No. 58, accidentally ; and in six cases, Nos. 9,
12, 35, 51, 53, and 98, a change in the hypnotic condition of the perci
pient had to be brought about during the experiment which, with
Mr. Smith's methods of working, practically involves contact. The
experiments which we have counted as successes or partial successes
are marked with an asterisk.
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS IN TBANSFERRING MENTAL
PICTURES.
No. Date. Subject of Mental
Picture. Percipient.
1800.
'1 July 9. A little boy with a ball Miss It. looking at
card.
•a A kitten in a jar M
s Noah's Ark A animals. M
i Christy Minstrel with ••
a 1. in,.i
♦6 a nanio.
Christy Minstrel with ,t
a banjo (continued).
i! Sailingboat on the sea. M
•7 A sailing boat on the
sea (continued).
8 July 10. A soldier.
•» A pony. P. looking at card.
10 Adonkey,with awoman T.
riding it.
11
Aus'.26.
An open umbrella. T.
12 An excursionist on a P-
donkey.
13 Pony carriage, with 'i ii
lady driving.
14 Miss B. sitting in chair M M
at Arch.
15 Nov. 9. A fisherman with a ff f)
barrow of fish.
i.l A black kitten playing i! f1
with a cork.
♦17 " Sandwich " man with II li
advertisement of play.
Position of
Sitting near.
Behind screen.
M
Sitting near.
Behind screen.
Sitting near.
Behind screen,
then near.
Mr. Smith
speaking. Con
tact.T.co-agent
part of time.
Mr.Smith near,
speaking.
Speaking. Con
tact.
Behind screen.
Behind P.,
speaking.
Behind P.
Description given by
Percipient.
A little boywith a ball.
A cat, sitting down.
A rlv, or bee.
Something long, round,
—a cage, a can.
A man's hand, a black
hand.
Black man with gu,tar.
A sailing boat.
No impression.
Chair-rabbit-pony.
No impression.
A woman.
Horse, pony, donkey.
No impression.
No impression.
Owl's face, rabbit.
A cat with saucer (?)
milk.
A man that goes ationt
with two boards.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 557
No. Date.
16!>U.
•18 Nov. 9.
Nov.10.
Dec. 15.
Dec. 16.
Dec. 17.
Dec.
Dec. 20.
Subject of Mental
Picture.
A choir boy.
A vase with flowers.
T. with hissilver-head
ed stick.
A black dog.
H,e Eiffel Tower.
A boy with bat, play
ing cricket.
Willing's clock.
A pony carriage.
A vase with flowers.
Ajug.
A clock.
A man and woman
dancing.
A cowbeing milked by
dairy-maid.
T. boxing
A big black dog.
A big black dog.
Asailorsmokingapipe.
A boy skating. ^
A bedroom candle* /
stick. \
An open umbrella.
A rose.
A baby in perambula
tor, with nurse.
A man with a barrel-
organ.
A sailing boat with
three masts.
A cavalry soldier on
horseback.
A drummer-boy.
Miss B.
ProfessorSidgwick.
Mrs. Smith playing
the piano.
Percipient.
P. looking at card
T.
MissB.,withclosed
eyesand handon
planchette, up
stairs. P. looking
at card down
stairs.
Position of
Agent
P. looking at card.
Miss B.,eyes closed'
P. looking at card
Miss B.,eyes closed
T., eyes closed?
T. looking at card
T. looking in ink.
MissB. eyesclosed.
Behind P.
Behind screen.
Behind screen,
speaking.
Behind T.
Behind T.,
speaking.
/
Upstairs, j
opposite J
Miss B. I
Downstairs, /
behind P. \
Upstairs,
o p posite
Miss B.
Downstairs, (
behind P., ]
but h a d •
been u \i-'\
stairs after
beknew the \
subject.
Near, speaking.
P. agent ; Mr.
Smith know
ing subject,
speaking.
Downstairs.
Up s t ai r s
Description given by
Percipient.
Upstairs,hold- (
ing hand of '
Miss B., (£ .
speaking. \
Behind T.
Downstairs.
Near; speaking
Behind T.
Outside room.
Figure dressed in white
—a ghost.
A glass—a flower-pot.
The number 14.
Somethingsquare—box
A black dog.
All smudgy and black.
The same as before.
Letters assumed by T.
to belong to a tele
graphiccode, sent by
flash, system.'
No impression.
MissB.: Ajug.
P : No impression.
MissB.: A wine-glass.
P. : A watch.
Miss B : Noimpression.
Planchette wrote,
" Figure A animals."
P. : A lady and gentle
man dancing.
Miss B. : A buffalo.
Planchette wrote,
" Cow."
P. : Painted church
windows.
Miss B. : A man, or
child, playing.
Planchette wrote, "Cat
drinking inilk.chair."
P. : A dog. A photo
graph of T.
No impression.
A black and white dog.
A boy eating an apple.
P.: Frozen water—eome
onesliding orskating.
T.: Aship Hailingalong.
Miss B. : A cage.
T. : A man in a fog.
Miss B. : A horse.
T.: Something big.
Miss B. : A man.
T. : Woman pushing
perambulator.
A girl with a perambu
lator.
A man caught in a fog.
Three boys skating.
A man playing cricket.
No impression.
Miss R
No impression.
A rose—a little girl
playingat something.
' T. is a telegraph clerk.
558 Mrs. H. Sidgwiclc and Miss Alice Johnson.
No. Date.
47
1890.
Dec. 20.
48
189i.
Apr. 21.
49 Apr. 22.
50 July 0.
♦51 »
52 ■'
♦53 July 7.
54 July 8.
'55
50
»
57
•68 ;;
59
00
••
01
r.'
July 9.
O-
63 „
64
♦05
GO
67
OS July 10.
•09 »
♦70
71
72
»
73
74 July 11.
75
♦70
♦77 ,,
Subject of Mental
Picture.
July 13.
Percipient
A donkey.
A sack-race of four/
boys. ^
A dog sitting up beg-
gimr.
An elephant with ft/
bear on Its back. \
The Babes in the Wood.
A crocodile dancing/
on a table. \
A cavalry soldier. f
A goat - carriage, one
goat, two children.
A ship in full sail.
A man with barrel-
organ and monkey.
Mousein a moose-trap.
A mouse in a mouse
trap (continued).
A house on fire.
Cinderella's coach.
Pears' Boy blowing
soap-bubbles.
The American flag—
stars and stripes.
Pears' Boy blowing
soap-bubbles.
A man playing a fiddle.
An eagle pursuing a
sparrow.
The Walrus and the
Carpenter.
A donkey.
A Christy Minstrel
with a banjo.
Christy Minstrel with
a banjo (continued).
"Coach with four horses.
A clock.
Punch and Judy.
Man paddling a canoe.
A lion pursuinga deer.
A tiger.
A little boy throwing
up a red ball.
A man riding.
Bear, climbing a pole.
A squirrel, eating nuts.
A boat in full sail.
A tall hat.
Italian woman with
two green birds in a
Miss B.,eyes closed.
P.lookingincrystal.
T.lookingin another
crystal.
P. looking at card.
P. with closed eyes.
T. „
P. looking at card.
Position of
Agent.
P. , eves closed.
T.
Why brew, eyes
closed.
Major, eyes dosed.
P.
P. looking at card.
Why brew, eyes
closed.
P., eyes closed.
T. looking at card.
Major, eyes closed.
W h y b r e w, eye
closed.
P., eyes closed.
T. "
AVhybrew, looking
In crystal.
In room.
Near ; speak- (
Downs tairs.-
Upstair s ,
speaking.
Contact.
Downstairs.
Description given by
Percipient
1
Contact and
speaking.
In room.
Downstairs,
Contact withal
& speaking.
Downstairs.
In room.
Downstalis.
In room.
Downstairs.
Sitting near,
speaking.
D o w ns t airs,
thenupstairs,
speaking.
Downstairs,
Sitting near,
speaking.
A large black dog.
P. : No impression.
T. : A small dark man,
holding a pole.
A piano-an organ.
P. : S3. No further im
pression.
T. : 58. Thesea-afield,
with five people ptey-
ing cricket.
Babes in the Wood.
P. : A goat-chaise.
T. : Photo of the Aqua
rium—perambulator
with two children &
nurse.
P. : C-oach—locomotive.
T. : Large thing—paint
ed all red.
P. : A soldier on horse
back.
A man, horse and cart.
A mast—a ship.
A house, a woman
standing outside.
No impression.
Trap with a mouse.
A horse—an elephant.
A ring, green fields, a.
gate, a star.
A tree.
A tree—square—like s
house—square,
A square.
A house and a man.
A little bird—then an
eagle—then 6,
An elephant—some
people on its back.
A man standing out
side a house.
A boatwith peoplein it.
A negro with a hatchet
or axe.
A horse—man holding
it—light cart.
A house.
Something like a doc.
Plough A a man with ;t.
A ship.
No
A hall — red — and a
little boy.
Apairof legs—another
pair—a horse—a man
riding it.
No impression.
No impression
The Pyramids of Egypt.
No impression.
A woman like orsan-
grinder, with a bin!
in a cage.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 559
Date.
1891
| July13.
July14.
July 15.
July16.
July 29.
July30.
Subject of Mental
Picture,
A rowing boat. <
A boat.
A Christy Minstrel
with a banjo.
An eagle pursuing a
sparrow.
A man climbing up a
ladder.
A locomotive, green
with red stripes.
Aman on a bicycle. ^
A boat drawn by a /
swan. \
A man with a barrow
of fish.
A chimney-sweep with
broorn A bag of soot
The "Skylark" (a
yacht).
A woman and child
drinking tea.
SnAkewith itsfork
tongue out.
ed |
A cherub—head and/
wings only. \
A policeman with his
cape on.
A mouse in a trap.
A clock.
A spider in the middle
of its web.
Punch and Judy show,
including Toby,
ApictureofMr. Smith.
A locomotive.
A baby boy with a toy
rabbit.
Two boysona sea-saw.
A boy standing on his
head.
A cowbeing milked by
a dairymaid.
A bee-hive, with bees
flying about.
Percipient.
P. eyes closed.
P.
Why brew, eyes
closed.
P. eyes closed.
T-
P. „
T. „
Wh ybrew, eyes
closed
P. eves closed.
T.
P. looking at card.
P. eyes closed.
Position of
Agent.
Downstairs.
Downstairs,T.
joint agent.
In room,siieak-
Downstairs.
Sitting near,
speaking.
Downstairs. -|
',, t
Sitting near.
Downstairs.
Upstairs, be
hind sceen.
Behind screen,
speaking.
Speaking and
contact.
Behind screen.
Behind screen,
speaking.
Downstairs.
Upstairs, be
hind screen,
speaking.
Downstairs.
Description given by
Percipient.
P. : A wasp
T. : An eagle.
An elepbant.
A fairy or angel—flying
—carrying a child.
A sea-gull.
A man with a wooden
leg.
Wheels—long, round
piece above—engine.
P. : No impression.
T. : Lady sittingdown.
P. : No impression.
T.: Boat with two sails.
A man witha barrow of
fruit—or fish.
Four sticks in a row—
a horse.
A house.
No impression.
P. : Man witb ice
creambarrow—snake
—and snakecharmer.
T. : Man with barrel-
organ.
P. : No impression.
T. : A long thing.
No impression.
A mouse-trap with a
mouse in it.
A bullock's head.
A spider's web.
Grace Darlinginaboat.
A woman pushingaper
ambulator.
A fisherman sitting on
the edge of a boat.
No impression.
No impression.
A basket of flowers.
A largo cat, sitting
down, with a collar
and hell.
A small elephant, with
an attendant.
2 p 2
5G0 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
Summary of the Above.'
7. Experiments with Agent and Percipient in the same room
Correct or
partially
correct
Impression.
Number of
TrialH.
Percipient. Wrong. None.
Miss B.
P.
7
14
2
6
2
6
6
13
2
1 14
27
18
10
T.
7
3
2
Whybrew
Major. 2
Totals 31 27 13 71
II. Experiments with Agent and Percipient in different rooms.
Miss B 5 5
P. 1 16 6 23
T. 12 2 14
Whybrew 7 1 8
Major 1 4 5
Totals 2 44 9 66
We now give a detailed description of the successful experiments,
numbered as in the above list, but arranged under separate headings
for each percipient.
Experiments with Mi$s B.
The first experiments with Miss B. took place on July 9th, 1890.
The percipient, being in a hypnotic trance, had her eyes opened and
was given a card and told to look out for a picture which would come
on it.
No. 1. The subject, chosen by Mrs. Sidgwick, was a little boy with a
ball. Mr. Smith sat close to Miss B. but neither spoke to her nor
touched her. Miss B. presently said : " A figure is coming—a little
boy." Mrs. Sidgwick asked what he had in his hand and Miss B.
replied : " A round thing, a ball I suppose."
No. 2. For the next experiment Mr. Smith sat behind a screen.
The subject, a kitten in ajar, was again set by Mrs. Sidgwick. Miss B.
said : " Something like an old cat—a cat—I think it's a cat." Mrs.
Sidgwick : " What is the cat doing 1 " Miss B. (doubtfully) : " Sitting
' In this summary, eighteen experiments in which two percipients were trying at
the same time to get an impression of the " mental pictures " are counted each as two
experiments, one for each percipient, whereas in the preceding list each of them is
counted as only one experiment.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 561
down." Mrs. Sidgwick : " Is there anything else but a cat ? " Miss B. :
" No, only scratches about."
No. 3. (Failure.) The next subject, set by Miss Johnson, a Aroah's
Ark and animals, failed. It was probably too complicated and indefi
nite. Miss B. saw a small black lump which turned into a bee.
There was a curious development of her impressions in the next
two cases.
No. 4. Subject, a Christy Minstrel ivith a banjo (chosen by Mrs.
Sidgwick who took the notes). Miss B. said : " There's something long,
something round in that one—a little cage of some sort—something
that looks like a cage ; yet there's something like a handle. A can !
oh, it's a can ! It's quite clear now." We then gave her a fresh card,
and Mr. Smith moved round from behind the screen and sat close to
her, still without speaking.
No. 5. The same subject (continued). Miss B. said : " Something
here dark—a hand." Mrs. Sidgwick : " Is it a woman's hand or a man's1 "
Miss B. : "A black hand." This seemed to be a partial success.
Mr. Smith then woke Miss B. up to ask her when she had to
go, but finding that there was still a little time to spare, rehypnotised
her, and tried another subject.
No. 6. A sailing boat on the sea. Mr. Smith sat behind the screen.
Presently Miss B. said : " A man—black.—He's got something in his
hand—an instrument—sort of guitar thing." As we had not spoken
about the Christy Minstrel and banjo, this tardy emergence of the
idea when Mr. Smith was thinking of something else, and after
awaking and rehypnotisation, was interesting.
We then changed Miss B.'s card and Mr. Smith continued to think
of the sailing boat, but Miss B. only saw something like a bear, and
we changed her card again. Of course during these changes we told
her nothing about the subject, nor whether it was changed, nor whether
she was right or wrong. Miss B. then said : " Very funny thing "
(shaking her head) ; " can't see it coming to any figure. There's a mess
—it doesn't come to any shape."
No. 7. At this point, Mrs. Sidgwick asked Mr. Smith to come from
behind the screen and sit near Miss B. Miss Johnson, who did not
know what the subject of the picture was, asked Miss B. whether it
was anything like an animal. Miss B. said : " No—got some prong sort
of things—something at the bottom like a little boat.—What can
that be up in the air ?—Cliffs I suppose—cliffs in the air high up—it's
joining the boat—oh, sails—a sailing boat—not cliffs—sails." This
was not all uttered consecutively, but partly in answer to questions
put by Miss Johnson, but as Miss Johnson was ignorant of the subject
of the supposed picture, her questions could of course give no guidance.
562 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
It is obviously desirable in experiments of this sort that the talking,
which is generally necessary in order to draw information out of the
percipient, and also the noting down of what the percipient says, should
if possible be done by a person ignorant of the idea to be transferred.
But it is not always easy to carry out these conditions so strictly as was
done in this case of the boat.
It will be observed that so far, except in the partial success of the cat
seen for a kitten in a jar, Miss B. was only successful when Mr. Smith
was or had been quite close to her after the idea was in his mind, and
in the case of the Christy Minstrel after the contact required for
awaking and rehypnotisation.
No. 8. (Failure.) On July 10th we tried the same kind of experiment
again as soon as Miss B. arrived. Mrs. Sidgwick asked Mr. Smith to
try to make her see a picture of a soldier, but she had no impression
at all either while Mr. Smith sat behind the screen or when he moved
up close to her.
On November 10th, at the Arch, we tried the experiment with
variations, and on this occasion P. was percipient as well as Miss B.
No. 27. Miss B. sat with her eyes closed and her hand on a
planchette, hypnotised as usual. She was told that she would see
something and that the planchette would write, but that she need not
trouble herself about the planchette. Mr. Smith sat opposite to her
for the first experiment, not in contact, but with no screen between
them. He did not speak after the subject—a jug—had been given
him in writing by Miss Johnson, who remained upstairs with Miss B.
all the evening. Mrs. Sidgwick sat downstairs with P., who was look
ing at a blank caul on which he had been told, when hypnotised, that
a picture would appear. Mr. Smith was trying to transfer the subject
to both of them. Miss B. soon said: "Jug—I see a jug," but with
the planchette nothing legible was written, and P. had no impression.
No. 28. Mr. Smith next sat downstairs, behind P., and did not
speak after the subject—a clock—had been given him by Mrs.
Sidgwick. Miss B. this time thought she saw a wine-glass, but P. saw
" something round like a watch," the hands pointing to ten minutes
past 8. Mrs. Sidgwick : "Is it a watch?" P. said it was indistinct—
" plainer now—a ring at the top." It seemed as if the suggestion of
the watch had caused the ring to appear.
No. 29. The next subject, chosen by Mrs. Sidgwick, was a man
and woman dancing, and Mr. Smith was again with P., sitting behind
him. The result was a failure as regards Miss B. She said she could see
nothing, while her hand wrote with the planchette " figure and animals."
Hut P., after long waiting, saw, as he said, " A man and a girl there—
a lady and gentleman.—He's got his arm round her waist—they're
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 5G3
valsing or dancing something or other "; each point with an air of
discovery—the arm round the waist not at first suggesting the dancing.
No. 30. A cow being milked by a dairy-maid was the next subject
.chosen by Mrs. Sidgwick, and Mr. Smith sat in the room with Miss B.,
opposite to her as before. P. said : " I fancy I see some coloured win
dows as if it was going to be a church, but when I look again I can't
.see them." He had no further impression apparently, but said, "You
could easily fancy anything that came into your head." Miss B. said :
*' There's an animal I can see, a big one too—biggish looking—got
some horns I think.—It's a buffalo." Miss Johnson asked if she saw
anything besides the buffalo and she said " No." She also said that it
.seemed to be standing up. In the meanwhile the planchette had
written " Cow."
No. 31. The next subject, chosen by Miss Johnson, was T. boxing?
Mr. Smith was informed upstairs what the subject was to be and then
•sat downstairs. Miss B. said : " A man—no, looks more like a child—
riding, I think ; child's doing something. I don't know—figure of some
-sort," etc. Her hand on the planchette meanwhile wrote illegibly, but
on Miss Johnson's request wrote again, and finally produced : " Cat
drinking milk—chair."
P., downstairs, said : " I thought I saw a dog's face coming, but it's
yone away again.—I see some faint outline of a dog there.—I see a lot
of different things.—You see this corner " (pointing it out to Mrs.
.Sidgwick)—" a sort of tree there, all curled up.—A portrait ? What I
took for the dog's face seems to be the background. I imagined it was
a photo of T. just now, but it can't be that." He recurred, however,
to its being a portrait of T.
That P. succeeded when Miss B. failed and vice versd may have
been due to the distance, or may have been due to Mr. Smith being
unable to aim, as it were, at the distent percipient when the nearer one
obtruded him or herself.
No. 33 has been counted as a success, but as P. was in this case
the principal agent, it hardly belongs to the same category as the
;tbove. Before this experiment Mr. Smith had been trying to transfer
the same subject—a big black dog—to P., without success ; and Miss
B., who came in in the middle, was also told to try to see the picture
without, however, being hypnotised. They were then both hypnotised,
itnd P. was told that he would be able to make Miss B. see what he
thought of, and that he would be told in writing what this was to be
He was then awakened and the subject communicated to him, Mr.
.Smith also knowing it. Miss B. said : " It's an animal—a dog."
i T. had recently won a prize in a boxing match and had brought it to show to our
party one evening, so that the idea of T. boxing was a familiar one.
564 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
Mr. Smith: "Yes, what colour?" Miss B. : " Dark—looks like a
black and white clog." The image did not remain long. She could not
tell what size it was and said it looked like a cat at first.
Only five more experiments of this kind, on three different days,
were made with Miss B. and no more success was obtained.
Experiments with P.
No. 9. In the first attempt of this kind made with P. (on July 10th,
1890), Mr. Smith at first sat behind a screen and Mrs. Sidgwick
gave him a subject—a pony. Miss Johnson was en rapport with
P. who looked for the picture on a blank card. T. came in in the
middle and was asked, in writing, to think of the same subject. P.
said he saw a chair, and on being given a second card by Miss Johnson.
thought he saw something like a rabbit, but complained that the
picture was not clear—it looked as if it was covered with tissue
paper. Then Mr. Smith came round the screen and sat behind P.,
who did not appear to see him, but remarked " This is very funny—
I don't think you want me to see anything." Mr. Smith then, at
a sign from Mrs. Sidgwick, made a few passes over him and told him
the picture would come in a minute, then said nothing more. P. next
said : "I see something coming—it's a pony or a horse." Such an
experiment as this, though the success was tardy and not obtained
under the strictest conditions aimed at, yet often appeared to be useful
as a means of encouraging both agent and percipient and inducing
in them that expectation of future success which probably favours
its occurrence.
On this evening, however, our attempts were chiefly in other
directions and we had no further opportunity of trying experiments of
any kind with P. until August 25th, 1890, when we began at once with
the mental pictures. Three consecutive trials (Nos. 12, 13 and 14),
then failed ; in No. 1 2, the subject being an excursionist on a donkey,
he said he saw something like "a horse, donkey or pony—like a donkey
—head different," but in Nos. 13 and 14 he had no impressions what
ever.
The next attempts—five in number—were made on November 9th,
1890, in our lodgings. As a preliminary to each experiment, P. was
hypnotised and told by Mr. Smith that he would see a picture, then
had his eyes opened and was given a blank card to look at. The
subjects of the pictures were chosen by Mrs. Sidgwick and written
down by her. In the case of the first two, the subject for the picture,
was shown in writing to Mr. Smith before his final remarks to P.
about looking for the picture to come on the card. In the case of the
last three, it was only shown to him after he had explained to P. what
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 565
he was to do, and he did not speak at all after he knew what the
subject was. He sat near P. but behind him in all cases. Miss John
son, who was ignorant of the subjects, took notes of P.'s conversation
and other remarks that were made during the course of each experi
ment. P. occasionally addressed Mrs. Sidgwick and she answered
him, being of course very careful to avoid giving any indications by
her remarks.
No. 15. (Failure.) Subject : A fisherman with a barrow offish. P. :
" Something like two eyes there—a face—more like an owl's face than
anything else—can't see anything below—only a face—still I keep
looking." Mrs. Sidgwick said : "Shut your eyes for a minute and then
look again." P. : " Something like a rabbit now, when I opened my
eyes ;—rather faint."
No. 16. Subject: A black kitten playing with a cork. P.: "Some
thing like a cat, it's a cat." Mrs. Sidgwick : " What is it doing 1 " P. :
"Something it's been feeding out of—some milk, is it a saucer? Can't
see where its other paw is—only see three paws."
No. 17. Subject : A sandwich man with advertisement of a play.
P. said : " Something like letter A—stroke there, then there." Mrs.
Sidgwick : "Well, perhaps it will become clearer." P. : "Something
like a head on the top of it ; a V upside down—two legs and then a
head.—A man with two boards—looks like a man that goes about the
streets with two boards. I can see a head at the top and the body and
legs between the boards. I couldn't see what was written on the
boards, because the edges were turned towards me." Mr. Smith told
us afterwards that he had pictured to himself the man and one board
facing him, thus not corresponding to the impression which P. had.
No. 18. Subject : A choir boy. i P. said : " Edge of card's going a
dark colour. Somebody dressed up in white, eh 1 Can see something all
white ; edge all black, and like a figure in the middle. There's his hands
up " ( making a gesture to show the attitude) " like a ghost or some
thing—you couldn't mistake it for anything but a ghost. It's not
getting any better, it's fading—no, it's still there. It might frighten
any one." He also made remarks about the difficulty of seeing a white
figure on a white card (the blank card he was looking at was white)
which Mr. Smith afterwards said corresponded with his own ideas.
No. 19. Subject: A vase with flowers (Mr. Smith, still behind
P., was looking at a blue flower pot in the window containing an
indiarubber plant). P. said : " I see something round, like a round
ring. I can see some straight things from the round thing. I think
it's a glass—it goes up. I'll tell you what it is ; it must \ie a pot—a
i This was an idea extremely familiar to P., who had been a chorister and was still
connected with the choir of his church.
5GG Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
flower-pot, you know, with things growing in it. I only guessed that,
because you don't see things growing out of a glass.—It's not clear at
the top yet. You see something going up and you can't see the top,
because of the edge of the paper—it's cut off. I don't wonder, because
it's no good wondering what Mr. Smith does, he does such funny things.
I should fancy it might be a geranium, but there's only sticks, so you
can't tell." Mrs. Sidgwick : " What colour is the pot ? " P. : " Dark
colour, between terra-cotta and red—dark red, you'd call it.'' Here
the somewhat confused impression, apparently corresponding to the
struggle of ideas in Mr. Smith's mind between what he was seeing and
what he was trying to think of, is an interesting point.
The experiments of the next day, Nov. 10th, when Mr. Smith was
trying to transfer impressions to Miss B. and P. at the same time have
already been described above (see p.562).
The next trials with P. took place on Dec. 16th, 1890.
No. 34. (Failure.) Subject : A sailor smoking a pipe. Mr. Smith
was downstairs at the Arch with Mrs. Sidgwick, P. upstairs with Miss
Johnson. P. thought he " saw a boy eating an apple, only one boy."
No. 35. T. having come in, was hypnotised and set to look also—at
'another card—for the next subject, a boy skating. Mr. Smith tried
first from downstairs and then came upstairs, and sat by P., who
seemed extremely dull and drowsy, so much so that he dropped his
card without knowing it. Mr. Smith had to rouse him by passes
and talking and make him look at it. Then he said : " I can see
a black smudge all the way along—looks like some slippery—as if he's
slipping—sliding or skating. Can't see any skates—water frozen over
in dark patches." T. meanwhile had an impression of a ship, sailing or
sliding along.
No. 51. The next success—on July 6th, 1891—was not obtained
without a certain amount of information being given to P. The subject
was the Babes in the Wood. To begin with, P. sat with closed eyes,
but when no impression came, Mr. Smith opened his eyes, without
speaking, and made him look for the picture on a card. After we had
waited a little while in vain, Mr. Smith said to him : " Do you
see something like a straw hat ? " P. assented to this and then
began to puzzle out something more : " A white apron, something dark
—a child. It can't be another child, unless it's a boy—a boy and a
girl—the boy to the right and the girl to the left. Little girl with
white socks on, and shoes with straps." Mr. Smith asked : " What are
they doing 1 Is it two children on a raft at sea ? " P. : " No, it's like
trees in the background—a copse or something. Like a fairy story —
like Babes in a Wood or something."
No. 53. On the next evening again, success was only obtained after
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 567
•contact and talking between agent and percipients, but any hint as to
the subject—a cavalry soldier—was avoided. P. first saw successively
a coach and a locomotive. Then T., who was also looking for the
picture, saw " a thing painted all red—a large thing." After contact
and talking with Mr. Smith, P. then saw " a man, a volunteer—only
head and shoulders—a soldier on horseback."
No. 65. We made a good many attempts in which Mr. Smith was
in a different room from P., but only obtained one success, on July
9th, 1891. P.'s eyes were not opened and he was told that what
he would see would be a magic-lantern picture. (This idea was
suggested to us by Whybrew, who had imagined earlier in the same day
that he was seeing magic-lantern pictures when Mr. Smith was trying
to transfer mental pictures to him.) Mr. Smith made him see the sheet
and then went downstairs with Miss Johnson and was asked by her to
think of an eagle pursuing a sparrow. Mrs. Sidgwick, who remained
upstairs with P., in a few minutes induced him to see a round disk of
light on the imaginary lantern sheet and then he saw in it " something
like a bird " (?)' which disappeared immediately. He went on looking
(with closed eyes of course) and presently thought he saw " something
like a bird—something like an eagle." After a pause he said : " I
thought I saw a figure there—I saw 5. The bird's gone. I see 5 again,
now it's gone. The bird came twice." Mr. Smith then came upstairs,
and P. had another impression of an eagle. He was told that the
eagle was right and there was something else besides, no hint being
given of what the other thing was. He then said that the first thing
he " saw was a little bird—a sparrow perhaps—he could not say—about
the size of a sparrow ; then that disappeared and he saw the eagle.
He had told Mrs. Sidgwick so at the time."
No. 86. (Failure.) After several failures on intervening days, the
same subject of the eagle pursuing a sparrow, was set again, on July
14th, on the chance that the previous success might be a favourable
influence in this case. This time Mr. Smith was in the room, but P.
only said : " I think I can see a bird—I forget the name of those
birds that fly over the water—it's gone now." Mr. Smith said : " You'll
see it again in a minute." P. went on : " Now it's plainer—a sea-gull."
No. 95. On July 16th the subject of a snake with itsforked tongue
out was chosen by Miss Johnson, who sat behind a screen with Mr.
Smith, in the same room with P. and Mrs. Sidgwick. P. said : " I
thought I saw something like one of those men with an ice-cream
barrow—caught a glimpse of it "—then—" I just thought I could see
something like a snake. I can see it now still—something like a snake-
i He spoke in a low voice, and Mrs. Sidgwick first thought he said " child, " but from
his subsequent conversation concluded that it was " bird."
568 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
charmer there playing with it—isn't afraid of it a bit. I'm not going
to say this is it yet, because I saw the ice-cream barrow just now. It
seems a most silly thing to see a snake after an ice-cream barrow—but
that went and this stays longer—still there." The whole experiment
lasted 10 minutes.
The last successes with P. were obtained on July 29th, 1891.
During the first three trials Mr. Smith sat behind a screen with Miss.
Johnson, in the same room with P.
No. 97. (Failure.) Subject : Policeman with cape on. P. appeared
veiy sleepy and had no impression at all.
No. 98. Subject : A mouse in a mouse-trap. P. was in too deep a
condition to speak. He had to be roused and spoken to by Mr. Smith.
Mr. Smith behind the screen made a small pencil sketch of the subject.
P. after some time said : " I can see something—some lines coming "
(pause). " Still these lines and something like—oh, I think I know
what that's going to be. Is that meant for a mouse-trap ? " Mrs.
Sidgwick asked : " Any mouse ? " P. said : " I think it looks as if the
mouse was trying to poke its nose through the bars. I don't think it's
fancy." This was seen, not on a card, as usual, but with closed eyes.
His eyes were then opened by verbal suggestion from Mr. Smith and
Mrs. Sidgwick gave him a card, to see if he would see the mouse-trap
more clearly on it. But he saw nothing at all on the card, seemed in a
stupid, drowsy condition and soon dropped it. Mr. Smith then
told him while hypnotised that when his eyes were opened he would
see the next picture develop on a card.
No. 99. (Failure.) Subject : A clock. Mr. Smith behind the screen.
P. saw something like a bullock's head on his card. He was then
rehypnotised.
No. 100. Subject : A spider in the middle of its tceb. Mr. Smith
and Miss Johnson downstairs at first ; P. with Mrs. Sidgwick upstairs.
Mr. Smith drew the subject. P. had no impression. Mr. Smith came
upstairs and sat behind the screen and talked to him, avoiding hints.
After some time P. said : " Now I can see something—funny shape—
don't know what it is either—not quite round—octagonal in some
places—lines across it—more sides than eight—some broken. If I
was to compare it with anything, it would be a spider's web ; but it
can't be that. There would never be a picture of a spider's web."
Experiments toith T.
No. 39. T. had only two successes in these experiments. The first
occurred on December 17th, 1890. T. having been hypnotised, had
his eyes opened and was given a blank card to look at. The subject
was a baby in a perambulalor and a nursemaid. Mr. Smith sat behind
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 569
T. and said nothing. T. said : " I see a big, tall thing, a thing they
put children in—babies' carriage—perambulator. Yes, I think there's
a girl. Nothing in the perambulator. The girl's standing here "
(indicating a place on the card), " not in the perambulator." But the
success in this case may be accidental, as in the last experiment of the
day before T. saw a woman pushing a perambulator when he ought to
have seen a rose.
No. 40. (Failure.) The next subject was a man with a barrel-organ.
Mr. Smith was downstairs with Mrs. Sidgwick. T. had a rather vague
impression of a man " caught in a fog " and no more success was
obtained that evening.
No. 44. On the next day he was told when hypnotised that he
would see visions in a black fluid, and was then wakened and given a
saucer of ink to look in. The first subject tried from downstairs
failed. The next subject set was Miss B., but as T. had no impression
Mr. Smith came up and asked if he had seen anything and told him to
give it another chance. After some time T. said : " Oh, I can see
now. Is it a girl 1 Yes, I can see the face. Oh, yes ! it's a girl. I
can see now. A short girl rather—standing." Being asked what
she was like, he said : " Like Miss B. It is Miss B."
He had also one case of what was perhaps a deferred success, No.
21, the subject being a black clog. T. saw " Something square, like a
box." The next subject—No. 22—was the Eiffel Tower, and he then
said : " What is it? a dog or something—a black one."
Experiments with Whybrew.
The first two experiments of this kind with Whybrew, on July 8th,
1891, were as follows.
No. 54. (Failure.) Subject : A goal-carriage, with one goat and two
children in it. Mrs. Sidgwick, who was taking notes, gave this subject
to Mr. Smith, who remained in the room. Whybrew said : " Looks
like a horse there—yes, there's a horse there. Why, that's a cart at
its back—a horse and cart." Mrs. Sidgwick asked : " Anything in
the cart ? " Whybrew replied : " Is that a whip 1 and there's a man
there with the horse ;—man, horse and cart—nice little turn-out ! "
No. 55. Subject : A ship in full sail. Set by Miss Johnson and
unknown to Mrs. Sidgwick, who took the notes. Mr. Smith still in
the room. Whybrew said : " I see something up in the air—looks
like a mast. Why, there's a ship there—looks something like a ship
—a nice ship. One or two heads—dots—they look like heads—too
far away to see—three masts Mrs. Sidgwick had drawn out some of
these details by questions. After seeing what the subject was, she
-asked if the ship was in sail. He said he had not noticed.
570 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
Whybrew was made to see these impressions with closed eyes—not
on a card. On the next day, when told to look out for a picture, he
remarked spontaneously that he supposed it was a magic-lantern
picture that was coming. Mrs. Sidgwick assented to this idea and
got him gradually by verbal suggestion to see the white sheet, etc.,
after which he evolved for himself a tree (a totally wrong impression).
From that time, the impressions he had generally came to him as magic-
lantern pictures, which to a certain extent accounted to him satisfac
torily for their coming at all, though his curiosity was constantly
excited by his not being able to see any sign of the apparatus which
produced them.
On July 11th the first two trials failed. The first was made with
Mr. Smith downstairs and Whybrew upstairs ; in the second Mr. Smith
sat by him and talked to him, but no clear impression resulted.
No. 76. The third subject was a little boy throwing up a red ball.
Mr. Smith sitting by Whybrew. The latter said : " Looks like a shadow
there, like something round. That's a ball, ain't it ? " Mr. Smith :
" Yes. " Whybrew : " Is that supposed to be a coloured ball ? " Mr.
Smith : " Yes ; what colour 1 " Whybrew : " Why, red ; a red ball, that's
what it is. Is there anything else 1 " Mr. Smith :" Yes." Whybrew.
" It looks something like a little boy—a little boy with a ball. That's
better than the others " (meaning the previous pictures on this day). Mr.
Smith : " What's he doing with the ball ? " Whybrew : " I should imagine
that he's going to throw it." He proceeded to give details of the
picture showing that it was clearly visualised.
No. 77. Subject : A man riding. Mr. Smith downstairs with Miss
Johnson ; Whybrew, upstairs with Mrs. Sidgwick, said, after some
remarks on the former pictures : " There's another one—I think it's like
the other two—a puzzle [to see] if I can find the picture. I hope I'll
be able to see it properly. A kind of a square—square shadow—blowed
if I can understand what it's meant for—I don't know what to make
out of that. I don't know if that's meant to be the lower part of a
pair of legs. Do you see a picture ? " Mrs. Sidgwick : " I see something."
Whybrew : " I see them two spots, but I don't know what to make of
them. If they're legs, the body ought to come.—Don't seem to come
any brighter, but there's those two things there, that look like a pair of
legs." Here Mr. Smith was asked to come upstairs and talk to him.
He told him the picture was coming up closer and that he had turned
the gas on to make it brighter. Whybrew : " There's them pair of legs
there." Mr. Smith : " Yes " (doubtfully). Whybrew: " Why, there's
another. I never see that other pair before. Why, it's a horse. I
expect it's like them penny pictures that you fold over. That horse—
that's plain enough ; but what's that other thing?" Mr. Smith : " Yes,
I told you there was something else." Whybrew : " Why, I see what
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 571
it is now—it's supposed to be a man there, I expect." Mr. Smith r
" Yes." Whybrew : " Riding him. But that ain't so good as the boy
and the ball." Mrs. Sidgwick : " How is the man dressed ? " Whybrew r
" Ordinary."
On July 13th we tried making him see the pictures in a real crystal
instead of by means of an imaginary magic-lantern, and to facilitate
matters, he was first given a little education in crystal-vision. Mr.
Smith hypnotised him and gave him a post-hypnotic suggestion to see
in the crystal himself (Mr. Smith) reading. He then woke him, and
gave him the crystal to look at. For some time he saw nothing and
seemed sceptically amused by the idea that he ever would ; then,
rather suddenly, his hypnotic manner came on. (There was a marked
difference between his behaviour when awake and when hypnotised.
In the latter condition he spoke always with a sort of slightly convulsive
stuttering, and he was also much more unrestrained in his language and
manner.) He said he saw a man there. "I think I've seen his face
before. That's a gentleman that lives down the front " (i.e., on the
parade). " Mr. Smith—he's sitting down ; he's got a book there—he's
looking in the book." Mr. Smith : " Reading, probably 1" Whybrew :
"Yes, or looking at the pictures." It was clear that he had fallen again
into the hypnotic trance as soon as the suggestion took effect. He was
then given another post-hypnotic suggestion to the effect that he would
open his eyes when Mrs. Sidgwick clapped her hands and would then
see another picture in the crystal.
No. 82. Miss Johnson then went downstairs with Mr. Smith and
gave him the subject of an Italian woman with two little green birds in
a cage (a familiar object on the Brighton beach). After they had gone,
Mrs. Sidgwick clapped her hands and Whybrew opened his eyes,
remaining however in a hypnotic state, and she gave him the crystal
to look in. He saw nothingjtt first but some shading and lines which
were probably the lines of stitching, etc., of a smoking cap in which the
crystal was placed. Then Mr. Smith was asked to come up and speak
to him. He saw no more for some time, but finally began : " What's
all them strokes down here t Is it the sea ? " Mr. Smith : " Not
the sea." Whybrew : " Why, is that the ground 1 " Mr. Smith : " I
shouldn't wonder." Whybrew : " I can see the outsides now. Oh !
there looks like a head here. Why, it's a woman. She looks like a
woman that plays the organ. Don't you think so?" Mr. Smith
" What's she doing now ? " Whybrew : " She looks like she's got her
hand out—something in her hand—looks like seeds. Is she throwing
anything on the ground ? Is there some sparrows there ? Looks
something like one or two—there's one bird there." Mr. Smith :
" What kind of bird is it ; what colour V Whybrew : " I don't know
what they call that. It's the shape of a sparrow. I can't see the colour
572 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
of it." Mr. Smith : " Where is that bird 1 " Whybrew pointed out its
position in the crystal. Mr. Smith explained that he did not mean
that and asked, "Is it on the ground?" Whybrew: "Not on the
ground, in a cage. There's the girl, she's looking at it." We believe
that he recovered his normal state at this point, but this is not recorded.
At any rate he was rehypnotised and awakened and he then said that
he had been looking in the crystal, but had seen nothing.
On July 15th, Whybrew having been hypnotised by Miss Charles-
worth, another trial was made with Mr. Smith as agent. Mr. Smith
had to be introduced to Whybrew by Miss Charlesworth and put en
rapport with him, just as we had to be when Mr. Smith hypnotised
him. Miss Charlesworth, though she had hypnotised him, failed as an
agent.
No. 88. The subject given was a locomotive—green in colour, with
red stripes. Mr. Smith, however, did not notice the directions as to
colour and thought merely of the form. He sat by the side of and
rather behind Whybrew, Mrs. Sidgwick holding up a newspaper as a
screen between them. He was sketching the subject, and occasionally
made remarks—which Mrs. Sidgwick thought at the time carefully
selected not to give hints—in response to Whybrew's. The latter had
no impression for some time, then said : " Looks like something round
there—looks like a wheel. You don't call that a picture, do you ?
There's another one the other side. There's something above them two
wheels, but it don't touch the wheels—a piece by itself. That's round,
only it's long—like a pipe or something. Wonder what that's going to
turn out. That looks like it's made of iron, it's black. That looks
like an engine.—Here !—and you've put the chimley. There was no
man." The wheels in Mr. Smith's sketch, which we have preserved,
were done with little niggling touches, very faint. The sound of the
pencil, even if there was any audible sound, cannot possibly have
suggested the form.
No. 91. On July 16th, Mr. Smith himself hypnotised Whybrew, as
usual. During the experiment he sat by him, but did not speak to him
at all after he knew the subject—a man with a harrow offiah—given
him by Mrs. Sidgwick. Miss Johnson, not knowing what the subject
was, carried on the conversation with Whybrew. He said : "It's the
shape of a man. Yes, there's a man there. Don't know him. He looks
like a bloke that sells strawberries." Miss Johnson asked : " Are there
strawberries there ? " Whybrew : " That looks like his barrow there.
What's he selling of? I believe he's sold out. I can't see anything on
his barrow—perhaps he's sold out. There ain't many—a few round
things. I expect they're fruit. Are they cherries ? They look a bit
red. Aren't they fish ? It don't look very much like fish. If they're
fish, some of them hasn't got any heads on. Barrow is a bit fishified
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 573
—it has a tray on. What colour are those things on the barrow ? They
looked red, but now they look silvery." He was rather pleased with
this picture and asked afterwards if it was for sale.
Experiments with Major.
A few successes were obtained with Major, he being in all cases
hypnotised and his eyes closed.
No. 58. In the first trial with him, on July 8th, 1891, Mr. Smith
sat by him, in contact with his chair, and talked to him, telling him he
was to see a picture. The subject given was a mouse in a mouse-trap.
Regarding himself as a man of culture and being generally anxious to
exhibit this, Major asked if it was to be an old master or a modern
" pot-boiler." He was told the latter, and he then discoursed on " pot
boilers " and how he knew all the subjects of them—mentioning two or
three—in a very contemptuous manner. He did not seem to see any
thing, however, and appeared to be expecting to see an artist producing
a rapid sketch. Then, when told that the picture was actually there,
he suddenly exclaimed : " Do you mean that deuced old trap with a
mouse ? He must have been drawing for the rat vermin people."
No. 68. (Failure.) On July 10th we tried first with Mr. Smith
downstairs with Mrs. Sidgwick, Major remaining upstairs with Miss
Johnson. The subject was a Christy Minstrel with a banjo. Major had
first what appeared to be a rather vague and uncertain impression of a
boat.
No. 69. Then Mr. Smith came up, but did not speak and Major
was told there was to be another picture. The subject, however, was
not really changed. Mr. Smith, saying nothing, sat behind and a little
on one side of him, sketching the subject on a block held up back to
Major, whose eyes were closed. Major then said : " That's a man, isn't
it ? Not a woman. Very dark complexioned—thick lips—negro ?
Not an Englishman ; half-caste perhaps, not pure Saxon." Miss John
son asked : "Is he doing anything? Is there anything else?" Major
said : " Has he got a hatchet or axe or something ? " He got no clearer
impression, and even when in the end Mr. Smith spoke to him and told
him it was a banjo, said ho thought it looked more like an Indian club
or tomahawk.
No. 70. For the next subject—a coach with four horses—Mr. Smith
was downstairs again with Mrs. Sidgwick and Major upstairs with
Miss Johnson. He said : " A horse, is it ? It looks to me something
like a horse." When Miss Johnson asked if there was anything else,
he thought he saw a man holding the horse's head, not so clear as the
negro (in the previous experiment) had been, but the horse was pretty
clear, "a good horse, a thoroughbred mare." Miss Johnson then went
downstairs and finding what the subject really was, came up and told
2 Q
574 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
Major the horse was right, but there was something more to see. He
supposed it was a cart of some sort. Mr. Smith came upstairs and
inquired what sort of cart. Major thought it was " a light cart—not
agricultural—not carrying a heavy weight."
Besides the experiments quoted above, only three others were tried
with Major, all of which were failures. In all of these, Mr. Smith was
downstairs, Major being upstairs. Major's remarks during these latter
experiments generally gave us the impression that he had no clear
visualisations at all, but only very vague ones, on which his imagination
was not at all ready to work. On the other hand, our last percipient
—Adams—seemed to have no difficulty in filling up the impressions
that he experienced with the most elaborate detail, drawn from his own
imagination. So much was this the case, that the correct idea appeared,
as it were, to have no chance of penetrating into his consciousness at all,
and he was invariably unsuccessful in his guesses. It is possible that
Adams was started on a wrong line—that of deriving his impressions
entirely from his imagination—by the fact that we began these experi
ments with him with the agent in another room. His was the only case
in which we did this.
Condition of the Percipients.
The percipients were always hypnotised to begin with and, when
their eyes were not opened, remained hypnotised throughout at least
the course of one experiment. When their eyes were opened, their
condition varied in different cases, and was not always easy to define.
We often attempted not to rouse them completely, but to let them
remain in the hypnotic state if possible. P., however, seemed generally
to wake completely as soon as his eyes were opened, so that his im
pressions might be regarded as post-hypnotic hallucinations. But some
times he remained hypnotised, and was then apt to be heavy and drowsy
and in a state of mental confusion. Thus, once he observed T., who
had come in while he was hypnotised, and seemed quite alarmed. He
stared at him, saying : " Is that T. ? He is altered ! " This state did
not seem favourable to thought-transference in his case.
It was easy, on the other hand, to open Miss B.'s eyes without
producing any obvious change in her mental state, and her attention
seemed to be then no more distracted by surrounding objects than
when they were closed. It was in this condition that she saw almost
all the hallucinatory pictures and numbers on cards in our experiments.
T. was generally drowsy and rather stupid when hypnotised, and
when his eyes were opened, without awaking him, and the sur
rounding objects therefore not so much shut off from him as before,
his intellectual faculties seemed to be further diminished. This was
still more the case in some experiments with which we are not now con
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 575
cerned when he was experiencing negative hallucinations induced by
verbal suggestion. In fact he appeared then to be reduced almost
to imbecility.
We tried varying the conditions in this way, because we thought it
possible that a certain depth of drowsiness—a certain stratum of the
hypnotic consciousness—might be the most favourable state for
receiving telepathic impressions. One day T., when in a specially deep
condition, certainly succeeded much better than usual, and we often
tried to reproduce the same condition in him afterwards, but did not
obtain the same success. Either we did not hit on the same stratum
or that stratum was not really a favourable one.
Development of the Percipients' Impressions.
Impressions of the form of the picture often came to the percipients
in a piecemeal way, as the hallucinatory impressions of numbers some
times did (see p. 554). This was markedly the case with Whybrew (see
the ship, No. 55 ; the little boy and ball, No. 76 ; the man riding,
No. 77 ; the Italian woman, No. 82 ; the locomotive, No. 88 ; the man
with a barrow of fish, No. 91). Miss B.'s impressions of the Christy
Minstrel (Nos. 4, 5 and 6) and the sailing boat (No. 7) were other
striking instances, and with P. the same kind of development some
times occurred (see the sandwich man, No. 17; the Babes in the Wood,
No. 51 ; the cavalry soldier, No. 53 ; the mouse-trap, No. 98.)
It seemed clear from this piecemeal development and from the
percipient's frequent slowness in interpreting the form (e.g., P.'s man
and woman dancing, No. 29, p. 562), that he became conscious of the
form before he was conscious of the idea and that the correctness of his
apprehension of the idea depended partly on his acuteness in interpret
ing the often imperfectly developed form (e.g., Miss B.'s buffalo, No.
30, p. 563). It was, however, equally clear that the precise form seen
depended on the percipient's imagination and not on the agent's ; see,
for instance, P.'s sandwich man, No. 17, p. 565, and the numbers seen
on cards and traced for us (p. 543), which were generally quite different
in form from those Mr. Smith were looking at. It appeared further that
the interpretation was liable to react on the form, as in the case of the
choirboy, No. 18, p. 565, whose ghostly attitude was apparently a conse
quence of the supposition that he was a ghost, and of the watch, No. 28,
p. 562, which acquired a ring after it had been identified as a watch.
If we compare the development in our thought-transference experi
ments with that in posthypnotic pictures or crystal-visions—as when
Whybrew was made to see Mr. Smith (p. 571), and in Mr. Myers'
interesting experiments with P. and T. (see present number of Proceed
ings, p. 459) the conclusion is irresistible that after the first introduc
tion into the percipient's mind of the idea which externalises itself in
2 q 2
576 Mrs. H. &iilywick ami Miss Alice Johnson.
the hallucination, the process in the case of the mentally and of the
verbally suggested ideas is identical. Take, for instance, the case of the
scene of Banquo's ghost. Mr. Myers tells the hypnotised P. the story
from Macbeth accompanying it with a suggestion that he will see it in
the glass. P., awakened, has no recollection of this idea, but presently
he sees it in the glass of water, clothed in a form due to his own
imagination, and interprets what he sees according to his ordinary
ideas and without any direct or conscious reference to the idea implanted
in his mind by Mr. Myers. Rehypnotised, P. could probably have
repeated the story of Banquo and would have known that Mr. Myers
had told it to him, though he might have forgotten seeing it in the
glass. It would be very interesting if by any artifice we could recall
that stratum of consciousness which in our experiments received the
purely mental suggestion subsequently developed into the picture seen.
Influence of Memory on Hallucinations.
An analysis of the guesses made by the percipients in these experi
ments shows that their impressions were generally reproductions of
familiar objects or ideas, while there are some slight indications of what
is apparently a tendency of hallucinations that have once occurred—no
matter in what way they may have been induced—-to recur in future
hypnoses.
The earlier experiments with diagrams seemed to illustrate the diffi
culty of producing telepathically in P.'s mind an impression of an
unfamiliar idea. As mentioned above, two sets of diagrams were used,
(a) shapes representing familiar objects cut out in gold or silver paper,
and (b) nameless arrangements of lines, drawn in black on white paper.
Roughly speaking, the successes obtained with (a) occurred after P.
had seen all the diagrams in a normal state, so that the ideas were by
that time ready-made in his mind. With (b), the nearest approach
to a success before he had seen the diagrams was the guess of some
thing like an H for one which distantly resembled that letter. After
he had looked through them all in a normal condition, impressions of a
very similar kind began to occur to him when hypnotised and told to
look out for diagrams of that sort. In twelve trials (in which, being
hypnotised, his eyes were opened and he traced the impressions
that came to him as hallucinations on a sheet of paper,) eight of
the ten different figures he drew had some clear resemblance to
some of the (b) diagrams —three of them being successful or nearly
successful guesses—and one represented an (a) diagram. While
hypnotised he said in answer to questions that he could not
remember having ever seen any such things before, except the
(a) diagram (which as a matter of fact had been successfully guessed
by him in previous hypnoses) But when awakened and asked to
Experiments in Thought-TranHference. 577
draw as many of the (6) diagrams as he could from memory, he
drew nine, all but one of which he had given as reproductions in
the course of the evening. His drawings represented the originals
with very much the same degree of accuracy that his hallucinatory
impressions did. It seemed clear therefore that the latter depended
entirely on his memory.
It appeared to us also conducive to success, that the agent should
be familiar with the idea which he attempted to transfer. Mr. Smith
tried several times to transfer real pictures from books, but with no
success. Either no impression at all, or a totally wrong one was
produced.
III. Production of Local Anaesthesia and Rigidity by Mental
Suggestion.
Introduction and General Considerations.
The production of local anesthesia and rigidity is of course a
phenomenon that has often been observed and described in connection
with experiments in hypnotism, and is familiar to all hypnotic operators,
as the result of a definite verbal suggestion ; and it can also be pro
duced in some subjects by self-suggestion (see Proceedings, Vol. V., pp.
280-282). The physiological action involved is a question of great
theoretical interest, but our experiments were not directed towards
adding to the present state of knowledge with regard to this.
They were carried out under conditions which, as we believe, precluded
any knowledge on the part of the subject as to which of his fingers
was to be operated on, and thus, in one important respect at least,
they differed essentially from the ordinary experiments referred to.
The familiar effects were produced by unfamiliar—or not generally
recognised—means, and it is with the means, and not with the effects,
that we are here chiefly concerned.
Readers of the Proceedings will be aware that the late Mr. Gurney
was the first to carry out a series of experiments of this kind, and
it will be seen that ours are only a slight extension of his. He
described the conditions under which his later experiments of this
kind were performed in Proceedings, Vol. V., pp. 14-17. The person to
be operated on passed his hands through a screen extending far enough
in all directions to conceal them and Mr. Smith from his view, and
spread out his ten fingers on a table in front of him. A finger having
been selected by Mr. Gurney without the knowledge of the subject,
Mr. Smith held his hand above it, willing that it should be affected
in the usual way—that is, become rigid and insensitive,—and this with
a suitable subject almost always occurred to that finger, and that
linger alone. Generally, Mr. Gurney himself held his hand at the
57S Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
same time over another finger, imitating Mr. Smith's action, but usually
without any effect being produced in this other finger. The subject
was in a normal condition throughout, and frequently talked or read
aloud while the experiment was in progress, no effort or attention
on his part being apparently necessary.
Mr. Gurney varied the conditions in different ways. He tried a few
experiments with small screens of paper or tin over the fingers to be
operated on (Proceedings, Vol. 'V., p. 16). Success was impeded by
these devices, but not apparently prevented, but the trials were far too
few to base any conclusions upon. We believe that he tried and failed
with a screen over the whole of the hand, but this is not recorded.
With a paper screen over the whole hand, but having a narrow
opening through which the finger to be operated on could be seen,
five trials failed and one succeeded. More important were the negative
results obtained either when Mr. Smith held his hand above the
finger and willed that no effect should be produced (Proceedings, Vol.
V., p. 16), or when he willed the effect to be produced without approxi
mating his hand to that of the subject (Proceedings, Vol. II., p. 20-1).
Mr. Gurney discusses the possible explanation of his results in the
same number of the Proceedings (Vol. V., pp. 254-259). He assumes
that the conditions adopted secure—as they are designed to secure—-
that no indications as to which finger is to be operated on should
unintentionally reach the subject through the eye, or the ear, or by
touch. There remain then three hypotheses :—(«) that this knowledge
may reach his brain by means of a delicate perception—conscious or
unconscious —of temperature or air-currents, caused by the proximity
of Mr. Smith's fingers ; (6) that it may be conveyed from Mr. Smith's
mind to that of the subject by thought-transference ; and (r) that some
direct physical influence in which the ordinary channels of sense are
not concerned is exercised through Mr. Smith's hand on that of the
subject.'
Mr. Gurney considered that the ineffectiveness of Mr. Smith's hand
unless his will was engaged at the same time seemed alone fatal to
hypothesis («,), which was also rendered almost untenable by the
difficulty of supposing that the delicate perception assumed could have
i Mr. Gurney explains this hypothesis at greaterlength on pp. 257-259 Vol. V. He
thinks that if this specific influence exists, as a property of living tissue, there can be
no doubt that it depends on the brain of the operator ; since his attention and will to
produce the effect are indispensable and the same proximity of his hand which pro
duces the effect also removes it—the only change of condition being in his intention.
It is clear, however, that the nervous condition of the operator is not simply repro
duced in the subject—the hand operated on assuming quite a different condition
from that of the hand that operates. Therefore, " though finding its nearest analogue
in induced electric currents and though best, perhaps, described as nervous induction,
[the influence] is essentially vital and sui gencrit."
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 579
been delicate enough to make it possible to distinguish Mr. Smith's
hand from Mr. Gurney's held similarly over another finger at the
same time. Hypothesis (6), Mr. Gurney says, "seems excluded by
the fact that the physical proximity of Mr. Smith's hand (no less
than his concentration of will on the desired result) proves to be
a necessary condition," and he concludes that the balance of probability
is greatly in favour of hypothesis (c)—a direct physical influence,
exercised through Mr. Smith's hand, in which the ordinary channels
of sense are not concerned.
This brief introduction seemed necessary in order to explain the
state of the question and the bearing of our own experiments on it.
These, as will be seen, still further confirm Mr. Gurney's view as to the
untenableness of his hypothesis (a), because we have succeeded in
obtaining the result with a thick sheet of glass between Mr. Smith's
fingers and the subject's. They also exclude hypothesis (c) and
remove Mr. Gurney's main objection to hypothesis (6), (thought-trans
ference), because we have succeeded when Mr. Smith did not hold his
hand over the subject's at all, but merely stood with folded arms
looking at the finger to be affected. We therefore believe that the
true explanation of the results is thought-transference or mental
suggestion, received in some unconscious or "subliminal" manner by
the subject's mind and acting on his organism in the same way that
an ordinaiy verbal suggestion may act. The process would thus be
analogous to that supposed by Mr. Gurney to occur hi hypnotisation
at a distance.
Before proceeding to a detailed description of our own experiments,
we may remark that even taking Mr. Gurney's alone, the balance
of probability seems to us to be rather on the side of thought-trans
ference than of a direct physical influence. His contrary opinion
appears to us to rely too much on negative evidence, the force of
which it is easy to over-estimate. In his unsuccessful experiments
where willing without approaching the hand was used, the only
observed difference in conditions was the intentional withholding of Mr.
Smith's hand ; but this difference may easily not have been the whole
change actually produced in the conditions, and therefore may not have
been the cause of the 7um-oecurrencc of the phenomena under obser
vation. Our experiments show, in fact, that it was not the cause.i
But we also think some of Mr. Gurney's positive results hard to
interpret on any hypothesis of a physical influence acting immediately-
on the subject's nerves, and not through his brain by means of sugges-
i Similarly in our experiments in the transference of numbers, it is clear from our
later experiments that though we failed in 1889 when agent and percipient were in
different rooms, we should have been wrong in deducing that it was necessary to
success that they should be in the same room.
580 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
tion. We refer especially to the fact that occasionally the wrong
finger was affected instead of, or as well as, the right one. For instance,
in Mr. Gurney's experiments with little paper screens already
mentioned, two fingers, the selected one and another, were protected
by them, and in the first experiment lxith these fingers became stiff
and insensitive. Now it is easy to see how this might happen if the
result were due to " suggestion "—that is, to an impulse communicated
to the percipient's brain which set the machinery to work to produce
the nervous effect—for the suggestion can easily be conceived to go
wrong. If it was self-suggestion, due to the perception of the little
screens through the senses, it might naturally affect both fingers alike ;
and if it was mental suggestion through the action of the operator's
mind on that of the subject, it is easy to suppose that Mr. Smith's
attention was equally directed to both the marked fingers, though his
hand only pointed to one. But it is hard to see how any specific
influence from Mr. Smith's hand could affect the finger he was and the
finger he was not pointing at, without affecting also the intervening
ones.
Details of the Experiments.
For our own experiments we adopted the same arrangements as
Mr. Gurney. The subject, who was always in a normal condition at
the time of the experiments, sat with his hands passed through holes
in a screen which extended sufficiently above and on each side of him to
prevent his seeing the operator or his own hands. The hands were
spread out on a table and the finger to be operated on was silently
indicated to Mr. Smith behind the screen by one of ourselves, either
by signs or in writing. Mr. Smith generally said nothing while an
experiment was going on, and he remained behind the screen until the
testing was finished. The subject was frequently engaged by one of us
in conversation on topics outside the matter in hand during the process
of making the finger insensitive, but sometimes we encouraged him to
attend to his own sensations with results which will be described
below. When we believed the insensitiveness to have been produced,
we ascertained, without moving the screen, which finger it was in by
touching the fingers with the point of a pencil or . some other con
venient instrument, taking care to attack them in varying orders,
sometimes beginning with the selected finger and sometimes taking
it later in the series, so that no indication as to which finger we
expected to find affected might be given by the order of testing.
Occasionally the testing was done by one of us who was ignorant
of which finger had been selected. Rigidity was ascertained by tell
ing the subject to close his hands, when the affected finger remained
extended. We often tried this before testing for insensitiveness,
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 581
because it was free from the objection that in testing we might possibly
ourselves indicate the finger. In some experiments we attempted
to ascertain roughly the degree of insensitiveness by means of a small
induction coil. To this we shall recur later when we discuss the
nature of the effect produced.
Our experiments may be divided into six heads, according to the
position and procedure of Mr. Smith.
(a) First we have those in which Mr. Smith's hand was held above
the selected finger, with no intervening screen, his fingers pointing
downwards towards it, and their tips at distances varying up to about
four inches from it. This position we shall in future describe as
"pointing." Under these conditions, we had 13 trials with P., and a
few with Miss B., in 1890, all of which succeeded, except the first with
P., when no effect was produced on any finger. As this was the first
experiment of the whole series and made after a long interval during
which Mr. Smith had not been trying anything of the kind, the
failure is not surprising. In 1892, out of 12 trials made with
pointing, 5 may perhaps be counted as failures. In one of these
failures a wrong finger was affected, the one, namely, which Mr. Smith
had been vainly trying to affect without pointing in the experiment
immediately preceding. It is possible, of course, that this may have
been a deferred effect, but it was the only case of the kind, so that we
have not sufficient ground for forming a conclusion about it. In
the other 4 failures, after prolonged effort some slight effect appeared
to be produced, and in the right finger, but too little or too transiently
for us to regard the result as a success. In one of these cases (which
all occurred on two successive days—the two last and least successful
days of our experiments) a slight effect was produced in the selected
finger, which disappeared after further operation.
This is perhaps the best place to remark that there is a certain
indefiniteness in our use of the word " failure," owing to our not
prescribing any limit of time during which the effect was to occur.
The time required varied, but to attempt to ascertain with any
exactness what it was would have interfered somewhat with the main
object of our experiments, and our usual practice was to allow what
was generally ample time—three or four minutes—before testing.i
If on testing no effect had been produced, we sometimes counted the
experiment a failure and proceeded to a fresh one, at other times
i The longest time recorded as having elapsed before the anesthesia was observed
in any successful experiment was 14 minutes from the beginning of the attempt.
This was a case where Mr. Smith tried for a few minutes from a distance, then came
nearer and finally had recourse to pointing. The shortest time recorded was | minute,
and in this case the recovery was proportionately rapid.
5S2 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
we continued it ; in either case endeavouring to suggest to the subject
that we were satisfied and that a new experiment was beginning.
(6) In the second division of our experiments come those in which
a glass screen was placed over the subject's hands. For the first four
of these, we used a framed window pane which happened to be handy.
Then we obtained and used a sheet of 32 oz. glass, measuring 22 by 10
inches and jl inch in thickness. It was supported on two large books
placed beyond the subject's hands on each side. In this position the
upper surface of the glass was 2\ inches above the surface of the table,
so that there was ample room for the hands to rest underneath the glass
without touching it. Mr. Smith held his hand in the usual position
over the selected finger, above and not touching the glass. Under
these conditions, we tried 21 experiments with P., of which 18 were
successful, and 6 with Miss 13., all successful. In the case of the 3
failures with P., no effect was produced on any finger. In one
successful case, the time taken was long, and we interrupted the
experiment by premature testing in the way explained above.
(c) This division includes those experiments in which Mr. Smith did
not approximate his hand to that of the subject at all, but merely
looked at the selected finger from some place in the same room as the
subject, but out of his sight. The distances between him and the
subject varied from about 21 to about 12 feet. Under these con
ditions we tried 37 experiments with P., 18 in 1890, of which 12 were
successful, but 2 of these only partially so, and 19 in 1892 of which 9
were successful. The proportion of success was, it thus appears, much
less than under the previously described conditions, but still much
beyond what chance would produce. (The most probable number of
successes by chance alone was of course 1 in 10.) Of the 6 failures in
1890, one was a case in which Mr. Smith made a mistake as to which
finger wc had selected, but succeeded with the one he thought of. In
another case the left thumb instead of the right thumb became insensi
tive. In the other 1 cases no finger at all was affected. Of the 10 failures
in 1892, no effect w;is produced in 4 cases ; in another the right (namely,
the little) finger of the wrong hand became insensitive1 ; in 4 cases
an adjoining finger was affected—once only slightly—instead of that
selected, and in the remaining case a finger distant from the selected
one was slightly affected.
(rj) This division includes G experiments, all in 1892, in which
Mr. Smith stood in another room, looking through two doorways at P.'s
hands from a distance of 22 to 25 feet. In order to see the finger
' It happened on another occasion under these conditions that the right little finger
was slightly affected when the left little finger, which had been selected, was so in a
more decided manner.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 583
better, he looked through an opera glass. Three of these experiments
succeeded and three failed,—in each of the three failures a wrong
finger being affected. One of these was the right (namely, the little)
finger of the wrong hand.
(e) In this division we have the cases when Mr. Smith was in
a different room from P. with a closed door preventing his seeing P.'s
hands. The number of trials made was 14, and 12 of them were
complete failures, only partial success being obtained in the other two.
In 4 cases of failure, no effect was produced and in the other 8 a wrong
finger was more or less decidedly affected.
It is perhaps significant that in so large a proportion of failures,
under the more difficult conditions (d) and (e), a wrong finger should
have been affected instead of no effect being produced. Perhaps
the weakness of the impulse from Mr. Smith's mind prevented P.'s.
" subliminal consciousness " from distinguishing it from slight sugges
tions from other sources. It is noticeable also that, in 1892, the
tendency for a wrong finger to be affected rather than no finger at all
seems to have been much greater than in 1890. This may have been
because P. was then altogether less susceptible to thought-transference,
for the experiments on the fingers succeeded less well even under the
easiest conditions, and transference of numbers, which we also tried
with him at this time, practically failed altogether ; or the effect of ex
periments under unfavourable conditions may have been to educate him
to follow any casual suggestion. We do not think that there is sufficient
ground as yet for adopting either of these explanations, except provi
sionally, but in our present ignorance of the way in which thought-
transference operates, almost any possible clue is worth considering.
(/) This division consists of 4 experiments of a different kind—those
in which Mr. Smith's hand was approximated to the subject's and point
ing at a selected finger, but in which he willed to produce no effect-
These all had the negative result intended.
AVe now give a list of all the experiments with P. in chronological
order. The third column of the list describes the position and
action of Mr. Smith in relation to the subject, and each experiment is
marked (a) or (6), etc., according to which of the six heads already
mentioned it belongs to. The fourth column gives the finger selected
to be operated on ; R stands for the right and L for the left hand, and
the fingers are numbered in order, the thumb being counted as the
first. The fifth column gives the finger affected, if any, and describes
the effect produced. It is to be understood that the effect described
was found the first time the finger was tested, whenever stages of
testing are not mentioned.
•584 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
LIST OF EXPERIMENTS IN PRODUCING ANESTHESIA
AND RIGIDITY IN A SELECTED FINGER BY MENTAL
SUGGESTION.
No. Date. Conditions. Finger
Selected. Result. Degree of
Success.
1890.
1 Mar.23. (a) Pointing, no glass. R 2 No effect. Failure.
2 (a) Pointing, no glass ;
others held theirhands
L 2 L 2 alone became insensitive
and stiff.
Success.
S Mar.25.
over other fingers.
(«) Pointing, no glass. R 3 R 3 alone affected. Success.
4 («) L 2 L 2 alone affected. Success.
5 (/) Pointing, but willing
no effect ; no glass.
L 4 None of the fingers wore
affected.
Success.
8 „ (a) Pointing, no glass.
(6) Pointing, with glass
over hands.
R 4 R 4 alone affected. Success.
7 R 4 Sensationt lnR4. R I alone
affected.
Success.
•S (») I, 3 Sensation first in L 2 ; this
went off, then sensation in
L 3. L 3 alone became stiff
and insensitive.
Success.
9 „ r 2 Sensation in R 2. R 2 alone
affected.
Success.
<»i L 2 Sensation in L 2. L 2 tested
and fouud sensitive. Pro
cess continued. Tested
again and found slightly
insensitive. Process con
tinued. Tested again and
L 2 alone was rigid and
insensitive.
Success-
11 ,, (/) Pointing, but willing
no effect ; no glass.
R 1 No insensitiveness nor stiff
ness in any finger.
Success.
12 Mar.26. (b) Pointing, with glass
over hands.
R 8 Sensation in r 3. R 3 alone
affected.
Success.
IS M m L 1 Sensation in L 4, gradually
going off. No effect.
Failure.
14 (*) R 1 Sensation in R 4. r 4 alone
affected.
Success.
16 " 0) R 1 Sensation in R 2, which goes
off. Sensation in R 1. R
1 alone affected.
Success.
16 (b) L 5 Sensation In L 4, which goes
off. I, 5 alone affected.
Success.
17 ,, (/) Pointing, but willing
no effect ; no glass.
L S None of the fingers affected. Success.
18 ,, (!i) Pointing, with glass. L S Sensation in L 3. L 3 alone
affected.
Success-
I9 (>i) L 1 ' Sensation In R 2, which goes
off. Sensation in L 1. LI
alone affected.
Success.
20 (») R 4 Sensation In R 4. R 4 alone
affected.
Success.
21 „ (/) Pointing, but willing L 2 None of the fingers affected. Success.
.22
no effort ; with glass.
(b) Pointing, with glass. L 2 Sensation in L 2. L 2 nlonc
affected.
Success.
23 (b) Pointing, with glass. R 2 Sensation in R 2. R 2 alone
affected.
Success.
24 (») R 5 Sensation in R 6. Tested at
once, and found slightly
insensitive. Process con
tinued. Tested again, and
found more insensitive.
Process continued. Tested
again, and found com
pletely insensitive.
Success.
25 June 11. (b) I. S No effect. Failure.
2« (rr) Pointing, no glass. R 1 Sensation first in L 2, then
in L 3, then in L 6, then in
L WTist, each gradually
goingoff. Rl aloneaffected.
Success,
l.Tho " sensation " u ujed in this column retort; to the feeling of oold and numbntu mdmU,dm
ment,oned by the tubject in particular fityem. Thi, is fully de,crilwd and discussed UUr on (p. 53i).
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 585-
No. Date. Conditions. Ptngsr Result. Degree of
Success.
1800.
Selected.
'27 Tune 11. (a) Pointing, no glass. It 3 R 3 alone affected : insensi Success.
tive to touch and to weak
electric shock, but sensi
tive to strong shock.
•28 (r) Not pointing,with glass. L 2 No effect. Failure.
(a) Pointing, no glass. L 2 L 2 alone affected, but sen Success.
continued sitive to strong shock,
which nearly restored sen
sibility.
•30 June 12. L 4 L 4 alone affected. Success.
,, {(*) Not pointing, no glass. K 3 R 3 slightly stiff, but not
insensitive.
Partial.
'32 (tt) Pointing, with glass. L 2 No effect on first testing. Success.
Process continued. Tested
again and 1. 2 alone affect
ed. Insensitive to much
stronger shocks than in
Nos. 27 and 29.
•S3 (c) Not pointing,with glass. R 1 L 1 alone affected. Insensi Failure.
tive to strongest shock of
machine for some time.
•S4 M (0 I. 3 L 3 alone affected. Success.
•35 M L 5 I' 5 Success.
•36 n (r) Mr. Smith downstairs, B 4 R 1slightly affected,but soon Partial.
P. upstairs at Arch. recovered. At second time
..f testing R 4found insen
sitive to slight touches and
shocks, but sensitive to
stronger shocks.
37 June 13. (e) L 3 No effect. Failure.
"38 ,. (6) Mr. Smith upstairs, h 2 L 2 alone affected. Insensi Success.
•3a pointing, with glass,
(c) Not pointing,with glass. R 4, but
tive to strong shock.
R 5 alono affected. Insensi Failure.
Mr. Smith tive to fetrong shock.
under
stood r 5.
•40 (c) L 4 T• 4 alone affected. Success.
41 » (••) Mr. Smith downstairs,
P upstairs at Arch.
R 1 R 3 slightly affected. Failure.
42 (c) Mr. Smith upstairs,
about 8 ft. from P..not
R 2 No effect. Failure.
pointing.
•43 » (c) Near, not pointing,
with glass.
L3 h 3alone affected.after some
time.
Success.
44 June 14. (c) Mr. Smith downstairs, R 5 h 1 slightly affected. Failure.
P. upstairs at Arch.
45 M T, 4 No effect. Failure.
40 (c) Mr. Smith upstairs
about 6ft. from P.,then
nearer, not pointing ;
no glass.
R 3 No effect after tw ice testing. Failure.
•i7 (a) Pointing, no gla^s. R 3 R 3 alone affected. Insensi Success.
continued tive to strongest shocks.
'43 M (c) Not pointing, no glass ;
about 5 ft. off.
L 2 I. 2 alone affected. Insensi
tive to strongest shocks.
Success.
•40 - (c) Not pointing, no glass,
about 6 ft. off.
R 1 R 1 alone affected, but soon
recovered of itself.
Success.
•50 » (/) Mr. Smith downstairs,
P. upstairs.
R 4 R 2 alone affected. Failure.
51 Junc 16. (h) Pointing, with glass. R 2 No effect. Failure.
•52 (n) Pointing, no glass. R 2 R 2 alone affected. Sensi Success.
continued bility seemed restored by
shock.
53 (c) Notpointing/with glass L 3 No effect. Failure.
•54 («) I. 4 L 4 alone affected. Insensi Success.
tive to strong shocks.
55 " (e) Not pointing,with glass
about 4 ft. off.
R 1 R 1 insensitive on inner sur
face of first phalanx at
third time of testing
Partial.
56 (c) Mr. Smith downstairs,
P. upstairs at Arch.
L 5 No effect. Failure.
57 M It i R 3 alone affected. Failure.
58 M R 2 15 Failure.
•59 June 17. (a) Pointing, no glass. L 2 L 2 alone affected. Sensi Success.
bility restored by shocks.
•60 (b) Pointing, with glass. R 3 R 3 alone affected. Sensi Success.
bility partially restored
by shocks.
• The electric test tm used in tho e\periment* marked with an asterisk.
-58G Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
Date. Conditions. Finger
Selected. result. Degree of
IS*I.
June 17.
!.!une30.
i89?.!
,Sept. 23.
'Sept. 24
:sept.26.
ISopt. 27
(e) Not pointing,withglass,
about 8 ft. off.
(r) Mr. Smith downstairs,
P. upstairs nt Arch.
w
(«)
(«) Pointing, no gla s.
(6) Pointing, with glass,
(c) Notpointing.wfth glass,
(c)
(a) Pointing,
(c) Not pointing.
(a) Pointing,
(c) Not pointing.
(a) Pointing,
(o) „ ,
(e) Not pointing.
(i•)
(e) Not pointing, about
4 ft. off.
c) Not pointing.
about
about
Sept. 2i
M Not point!
(c) Not pointing,
fi ft. off.
(r) Not pointing,
8 ft, off.
(c)
(c) Not pointing, about
i2 ft. off.
(e) Not pointing, about
5 ft. off.
(c)
(«) Pointing, near.
(c) Not pointing, about
0 ft. off.
(.() About 22ft. off, looking
through opera-glass at
ringer.
(rf) The same, but about
25 ft. off.
('0
(?) The same position, but
an intervening door
closed.
(')
(a) Pointing.
(«) „
(«)
(r) Not po,nt,ng, near.
(,f) About 25 ft. off, using
opera-glass.
(c) The same, but after
some time agent came
near, not pointing.
L 8
R 1
L 5
B 1
It
I. i
It 1
It 1
T. 2
R :i
R 2
I. 1
It r,
R 1
I. 3
I.
B 2
B 2
It 4
I. s
L 1
B S
L 5
B 5
B J
R 3
continued
L 2
h t
it
B 1
B 2
L 2
B 2
I. I
R 5
i. :,
i. ._i
1, 5 alone affected, at iecond
time of te.-tting, but sensi
tive to strong shocks.
No effect.
R 5 alone affected. Sensibi
lity restored by shocks.
L 2 alone slightly affected '
R 2 alone affected at second,
time of testing. Sensibility!
partially restored by shocks'
L 4 alone affected.
Rl
R 1 alone affected. Shocks
restored sensibility and!
partially unstiffened tin-
finger.
L 2 alone affected.
No effect.
R 3 alone affected.
L 3 slightly affected.
R 5 alone affected.
Bl
L»
L5affected. R 5alsoaffected
very slightlv.
R 1 and R3 affected.
R 2 alone affected.
R4
LS
No effect aftertwice testing.
R 2 alone affected.
L .r, alone affected at second
time of testing.
L 5 alone affected.
No effect after testing three
times.
R 3 alone affected.
L 2 alone affected.
L 4 became more or less
rigid, aml insensitive at
tip, in 3 minutes.
L 5 alone affected.
R 1 alone affected at second
time of testing.
This experiment was stopped
almost at once ow,ng
to some hitch and L 4
found to be somewhat
affected.
L 2 slightly insensitive near
tip at second time oftesting,
R 2slightly affectedat second
time of testing, but re
covered of itself.
Hardly any effect.
R 5 alone affected.
Lowestjoint of L 5 became
insensitive.
Middle and lowestjoints of
I, 5 rigid and insensitive,
at second time of testing,
but middle joint soon re
covered of itsolf.
No effect after testing four
times at short intervals.
Success.
Failure.
Failure.
Failure.
Sue.
Sue
Success.
Suei
Failure.
Failure.
Failure.
Sue
Sir-'
Success.
Sue
Failure.
Success.
Success.
Success.
Failure.
Failure,
Success.
Failure.
Failure.
Success.
Success.
Success.
Failure.
Success.
Failure.
Partial.
DonbtfuL
Failure.
Success.
Success,
Failure,
• The electric test wa, used in the experiments marked with an atterisk.
1 The glass tcrecn was not used at all in the experiments ot i892.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 587
No. Date. Conditions. Finger
Selected. Result. Degree of
Success.
98
1892.
Sept. 28. («) Pointing. L 2
continued
L 2 rigid, and middle and
lowestjoints insensitive, at
second time of testing, but
middlejointsoon recovered
of itself.
Success.
100 Sopt 29.
M
(c) Not pointing, about 2} R 2 R 3 alone affected. Failure.
101
102 {d) Abont 25 'ft. off, using
opera-glass.
R 2
R 4
E2 Success.
Failure.
L 3 stiff and slightly insensi
tive at tip at third time of
testing.
103 «0 R 1 L 5 affected almost up to
knuckle at second time of
testing.
Failure.
104 (a) Pointing,anil Mr.Smith
once accidentally
touched the finger.
L 3 L 3 became stiff, but hardly
at all insensitive at third
time of testing.
Doubtful.
106
108
107
(c) Not pointing. L 2 L 3 slightlyaffectedatsecond
time of testing.
Failure.
Success
Doubtful.
(a) Pointing,
(a) Pointing.
L 2
continued
R 4
L 2 became stiffand insensi
tive near tip.
P. thought there was " some
thing wrong with " R 3
andR2. R 4 slightly affect
edat third time of testing,
butsoon recovered ofitself.
Summary.
(«) With Mr. Smith pointing at the selected \
finger. /
(6) A glass screen placed over P. 's hands, Mr. 1
Smith pointing at the finger. J
(c) Mr. Smith not pointing at the finger, in \
the same room with P., from 2£ to >
about 12 feet off.
(d) Mr. Smith in another room across a
passage, both intervening doors open,
looking through an opera-glass at the
finger.
(e) Mr. Smith in a different room from P.,\
an intervening door closed. f
(/) Mr. Smith pointing, but willing that no \
effect should be produced. /
J
}
Number of
0
3 l
lures.*
99
Si
2
1
1
s '§ £
0
T.
19 6 25
18 3 21
19 2 16 37
3 3 6
2 12 14
4 4
63 4 40 107
This column includes the cases marked " doubtful " in the preceding list.
588 Mrs. H. Sidgvnck and Miss Alice Johnson.
Means used to test the Anossthesia.
We may now turn to the discussion of the effect produced on the
finger.
The first question is as to the reality of the alleged anesthesia.'
Mr. Gurney had tested this so thoroughly that—apart from our confi
dence in the assertions of our subjects—we felt ourselves absolved from
applying the somewhat unpleasant methods which would have been
necessary for complete proof of it, and some of which would have
interfered with such frequent and continuous experimenting as ours.
Only once was the finger operated on pricked so as to draw blood, and
then apparently without the slightest consciousness on the part of the
subject.
Two different methods of testing for anesthesia were employed.
One was touching all the fingers at various points in varying order
many times in succession, the subject being asked to say whenever
he felt the touches. It would, no doubt, have been perfectly easy
for him, had he wished to do so, to simulate anesthesia in a particular
finger by simply saying nothing whenever that finger was touched.
His only difficulty would have been to discriminate the touches on it
rapidly enough not to respond, his hands being hidden from him.
The second test used was a current from a small induction coil,
which we could vary in intensity. This we applied through two
wire terminals, which were placed at a short distance apart on
the finger and produced a sensation resembling a prick. We could
only try the electric current freely on all the fingers when it was
weak, but as soon as any finger appeared insensitive to it, we pro
ceeded to test the degree of anaesthesia by gradually increasing the
strength of the current. The strongest current that the apparatus
could give would have produced decided pain in any finger in a normal
condition. The sensibility of different persons to pain of this kind
varies a good deal, but we had tried it roughly with all the party, so
that we had an approximate notion of the effect produced by different
strengths of the current. It could not be said that the pain produced
by the strongest current was unendurable, but it would certainly have
required a considerable exercise of self-control not to betray it in any
way. It must be remembered too that, apart from their probably not
being aware of the limits of the machine, the subjects were without
any safeguard that we might not apply the severest tests of any
other kind at any moment,
i It may be worth while to remind our readers that even on the supposition that
the annesthesia was simulated, it would still have to he explained how it came to be
simulated in the finger selected by us rather than in any other, and that this question
was of more immediate interest to us than the question uf the reality of the
amesthcsia.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 5SD
But perhaps the strongest evidence of the reality of the effect was
the excellent and sustained acting that would have been required for
simulation. We do not think that any impartial observer, who was as
well acquainted with the subjects as we were and who had carefully
watched all the experiments and talked to the subjects while they were
going on, would believe that the ansesthesia was simulated.
The uniformity in the sequence of effects described below affords
further strong evidence in favour of the genuineness of the experiments,
since the subjects were quite unaware that we were making these
observations, such points never being discussed in their presence, even
when they were hypnotised.
Degree of Anesthesia and Means usedfor Restoring Sensibility.
Assuming, then, that the experiments were genuine in the sense that
the alleged effects actually took place, we may proceed to consider in
more detail the nature of these effects.
The anesthesia was sometimes not complete, the finger being sensi
tive to strong shocks, while retaining its insensibility to weak stimuli.
The transition from not feeling to feeling the current seemed strangely
sudden as the strength was increased, as we noted in the first two
experiments (Nos. 27 and 29) in which the electric test was tried. In
No. 34 the strongest current that the apparatus could give was felt only
after it had been applied to the finger for some time. In 6 cases with
P. it was observed that the normal sensibility seemed to be suddenly and
completely restored after prolonged application of the electric current,
perhaps when applied at particular points on the finger. Thus, in two
cases, it seemed that the shock applied on the right side of the finger
brought the sensibility back.
Generally Mr. Smith restored the finger to its normal condition by
making upward passes with contact over it. He made six attempts,
late in the series, to restore P.'s fingers by a mere effort of will. He
remarked to us at first that he did not feel as if he knew how
to direct his mind towards the required result, and the first attempt
failed. In the second trial the sensibility only, and not the power of
movement, returned ; the third failed again ; the fourth succeeded,
while in the fifth and sixth the sensibility was restored completely and
the flexibility partially. With Miss B. also a few attempts were made
on one day to produce recovery by an effort of will on Mr. Smith's
part, without his stroking the finger, and without taking off the glass
screen which covered the hands. In the first trial, some effect in
restoring the sensitiveness seemed to be produced ; the second trial
failed. In the third, the hands being still under the glass screen and
the finger having been affected when Mr. Smith was looking at it,
2 K
590 Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
without pointing, it was restored under the same conditions, hut there
was some doubt as to whether it did not simply recover of itself, as the
recovery took a long time.
Spontaneous recovery took place in 5 cases (in one of them, only
after the electric test had been applied, though not at the time of its
application, and in three when only a very slight effect had been pro
duced). It seems most likely that this spontaneous recovery would
have taken place always if the finger had been left to itself for a suffi
cient length of time, and it may have been merely this that occurred
when Mr. Smith was trying to restore the finger by an act of will. It
seemed to us at the time, however, that his willing was effective and
that he could have succeeded with greater certainty and completeness
if he had tried oftener, or if we had spent more time on each attempt.
But this was not worth while, because the experiments could never
have been very conclusive on this point, and the upward strokings were
a rapid and convenient means of restoring the fingers to their normal
state.
Sequence of Effects.
An interesting point observed was that the loss of sensibility
seemed to spread from the lower part of the finger upwards, and when
the effect was slight, the tip of the finger only was affected. We have
recorded 14 cases in which either the lower part only—or the lower
part first—became insensitive, or more insensitive than the upper.
The only case observed in which this rule did not appear to hold good
was one (No. 55) in which—after an attempt longer than usual, viz.,
from 5 to 10 minutes—-the only part of the selected finger (the right
thumb) that became insensitive was the inner side of the proximal
joint. Another possible exception to the rule was an experiment with
Miss B., in which the part selected to be made anoesthetic was a spot in
the middle of the back of the left hand. Here the ansesthesia extended
both above and below the spot, over the metacarpal and proximal joints
of the middle finger.
Recovery seemed to proceed in the opposite direction, the sensibility
spreading downwards towards the tip of the finger. It was only
possible to observe this in a few cases, as recovery of the whole finger,
when upward passes were used for the purpose, was generally very rapid.
One case is recorded when the sensibility was completely restored by 2
such passes. In 7 cases, however, we detected the gradual recovery
referred to, which always followed the rule given. Thus, in one case,
after a few upward passes, the tip of the finger only remained insensible ;
in another case, after 3 passes the upper joint of a thumb became
completely and the lower joint partly sensitive, the sensibility of the
whole thumb being completely recovered after 2 more passes ; in a third
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 591
case, after 7 passes the two lowest joints of a finger remained completely
insensitive while the upper joint had recovered.
The recovery of motor power and of sensibility was not always simul
taneous. We have noted 5 cases in which the sensibility was recovered
first and none in which the motor power first reappeared. Also, in
making the experiments, the motor power was sometimes lost while
the sensibility was wholly or partially retained (this was noted in 5
cases) ; but we never detected any case in which the loss of sensibility
extended further than the loss of the motor power. In other words,
it seemed that the motor effect could be produced both more easily and
more completely than the sensory.
These latter observations, though only made casually in the course
of our experiments, are in accordance with the general experience of
other investigators. In the paper already referred to (Proceedings,
Vol. V., pp. 280-282) on the influence of self-suggestion, it is said
that " muscular rigidity [was the] most general form of phenomenon
produced by self-suggestion," whereas local ansesthesia appeared more
rarely. It is well known also that muscular rigidity is one of the
easiest effects to produce by verbal suggestion.
Sensations Described by the Subjects in the course of tfie Experiments.
When their attention was directed to their hands, the subjects were
sometimes aware of peculiar sensations in one or more of their fingers
during the operation. Mr. Gurney found this with two of his subjects,
after he had experimented with them for some time and got them to
attend to their sensations during the process, and the finger inwhich they
occurred was nearly always the one under experiment. The prevailing
sensation was cold, sometimes also "pins and needles," "numbness,"
and the like (Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 15).
Both P. and Miss B., when asked to attend to their hands, often
mentioned a sensation of cold in the selected finger, and if we tested
at once, we generally found its sensibility reduced below the normal.
The difference of temperature, if it existed at all, was not such as to
be perceptible to ordinary touch. The sensation of cold soon went off,
and the finger then became completely anesthetic. It would, of course,
be very easy —especially under the circumstances of the experiments—
to imagine such a feeling as this, but its association with the right finger
was certainly significant. The sensation, however, sometimes occurred in
the wrong finger, but then anesthesia never followed with P., though it
occasionally did so with Miss B. In 13 successful trials on two days
with P., in which his hands were covered with the glass screen, the.
sensation was mentioned in the right finger. In 4 of these trials, he
had described first a transient feeling in another finger, and in another
2 B 2
ri!)2 il/rs. H. Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
case, which was ;t complete failure, a transient feeling was described
in a wrong finger. But in none of these 5 cases did the wrontj finger
beeome rigid or ansesthetic. There was also one case on another day
(No. 26) in which the sensation was observed transiently in several
fingers and finally in the wrist of the left hand, but when he was told
to close his hands, the right thumb (which was the finger selected)
was alone found to be stiff.
Miss B. in 5 successful experiments mentioned the sensation in the
right finger only ; in one case she said it was in all her fingers,
especially one, which was the right one ; and in two cases, she felt it
first in one or two wrong fingers and then in the right. In all 8 cases,
the right fingers only became rigid and amesthetic. In another
successful experiment, when Mr. Smith was willing that no effect
should be produced, she described the sensation in one of her fingers.
Again, in the experiment mentioned above, when a spot in the
middle of the lmek of her left hand was selected to be influenced, she
hail the sensation in the middle finger of her left hand, and in this case
the anpesthesia extended alxive and below the spot over the metacarpal
and proximal joints of the finger.
Care was, of course, always taken, when the subject first spoke of
the sensation, to avoid giving him hints as to whether the finger he
mentioned was the one we had selected for experiment. After a time
we left off encouraging him to pay attention to his sensations, for fear
of rendering the fingers too susceptible to any chance suggestions.
With Miss B., especially, there seemed danger of this. One day we
tried the effect of using no screen between her and Mr. Smith. He
stood at the other side of the table on which her hands were placed ami
tried to influence the chosen finger by merely looking at it and willing
the effect without pointing. Three experiments were tried, of
which the second only was successful. In the first, Miss B. described
the sensation successively in two fingers—a wrong one and the right
one—and lxith became insensitive ; in the third, the sensation was
mentioned successively in three fingers—the right one and two others
—and all three became insensitive. These experiments could not, of
course, have been regarded as evidential in any case, because if they
had succeeded it would have been uncertain whether Miss B. could not
have seen which finger Mr. Smith was looking at. Their chief interest
lies in their showing the extreme degree of suggestibility attained,
which was perhaps greater on this occasion than usual, on account of
the operator being visible to the subject ; but it is also interesting to
observe that the degree of success obtained was much less than usual,
in spite of—-or perhaps because of (cf. below, p. 596)—the inadequacy of
the means taken for excluding conscious impressions as to the finger
selected.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 593
With T. very few experiments were made, since it was found that
the effects could not be generally confined to one finger, the right
linger and one of its neighbours being sometimes affected. Mr. Gurney
found the same difficulty with some subjects.
Conclusion.
It will probably be expected of us that we should state what
conclusions we ourselves draw from the long series of experiments and
observations here recorded.
In the first place, we think that they add materially to the already
accumulated evidence for the fact of telepathy or communication between
mind and mind otherwise than through the ordinary channels of sense.
In discovering the nature of this communication, however,—how it
works and what conditions are favourable to it,—we fear that we have
advanced very little. Still, our experiments suggest some reflexions
and some tentative conclusions which it may be worth while to put
together here.
Among these we may refer to the danger, already discussed on p
•"i79, of drawing conclusions from negative experiments. We have
encountered instances of this on two lines of experiment—those with
fingers and those with numbers, in lxith of which conditions apparently
fatal to success at one time were subsequently found to present no
insuperable obstacle. Two lessons may be learnt from this. The first
is merely that it would be premature to despair of obtaining success at
greater distances than we have yet done. The second is that the obstacle
overcome in each case cannot have been merely physical or it would
have been more constant in its action ; it must have had a large
psychical element in it. Possibly it may have been of the nature of
the want of confidence that sometimes makes a man unable to jump at
all when he fears that the height required is beyond his power.
If this last surmise is correct, it would appear natural to suppose
that it is the agent whose efficiency is affected by the distance or other
seeming obstacle, rather than the percipient. This we believe to be
often the case ; for in the finger experiments the percipient had, we
think, no means of knowing through his senses the variations in the
conditions,—e.g., whether Mr. Smith was pointing or not pointing,—so
long as he remained within a few feet of him.
It is probable, however, that the percipient is also liable to be
affected by supposed difficulties when aware of changed conditions, for
there can, we think, be no doubt that the possibility of telepathic
communication depends on both agent and percipient, and perhaps on a
relation between the two. The principal facts observed in the course of
our own experiments which support this conclusion are (1) the success
of Mr. Smith and of P. and T. as agents, when others failed ; (2) Mr
594 Mrs. H. S'ulgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
Smith's failure with various persons not mentioned in our paper, some
of them quite goixl hypnotic subjects and easily suggestible by him ;
(3) Miss Charlesworth's failure with Whybrew (who was a good per
cipient relatively to Mr. Smith), though she had hypnotised him (see p.
~i7ii), and though she had, she told us, succeeded with another percipient
-a lady- some months before.' This failure may, however, have been
due to some change in the conditions affecting herself only.
Success in thought-transference depending thus on both agent and
percipient would naturally vary with conditions affecting either. That
it varied with conditions affecting the percipient is certain ; for it
often happened that Mr. Smith could impress one of the percipients on
days when another seemed quite impervious to telepathically trans
ferred ideas. We thought that there was also some ground, besides
that derived from the finger experiments and already mentioned, for
thinking that failure was sometimes due to unknown conditions affect
ing the agent only ; because it appeared to us that P. or T. could occa
sionally succeed as agents better than Mr. Smith, though the latter
was on the whole the more effective agent.
The difficulty and uncertainty of these experiments are chiefly due
to the great variableness in conditions beyond our control, and if we
could discover something about these conditions, decided progress
would have been made in the investigation. But here we have very
little to record in the way of conclusions and can only note down a
few scattered observations.
We had some reason to think that freshness of interest in the
experiments on the part of agent and percipient and perhaps in others
concerned had a favourable effect, so that new kinds of experiment or
experiments with a new percipient sometimes succeeded best at first.
Thus with Miss B., the earlier number experiments, the earlier picture
experiments, and the earlier experiments in transferring hallucinations
were the best. On the other hand, a development of power seemed
to take place, such as made it ultimately possible to transfer numbers
from a distance and to stiffen fingers without approximating the hand ;
and success certainly had a tendency to produce further success.
Attention on the part of the agent both to the idea to be trans
ferred and to the percipient seems a necessary, accompaniment of an
intentional telepathic transference, and it is in fact difficult to imagine
how such a transference could be consriously attempted without this.
But we think it very doubtful whether this attention is at all
essential to the process of transference itself, whatever that may be ;
for in deferred successes (see above, p.3-18, and Proceedings, Vol. VI.,.
p. 161), the agent's attention is not at the moment on the object,.
' I nfortunately no notes were taken at the time of her experiments with this lady.
Experiments in Thought-Transference. 595
and, as we found once or twice in our experiments in 1889 (Proceedings,
Vol. VI., pp. 151, 163), a percipient to whom the agent is not con
sciously attending will sometimes receive the idea to be transferred.
Whether conscious attention or effort was ever necessary or
advantageous on the percipient's part is questionable, but we are in
clined to think not. In the finger experiments it was certainly un
necessary ; the percipient was then quite normal and might, and often
did, talk energetically about other things all the time, and the finger
might be rendered anesthetic, tested and restored without his knowing
that anything had happened. The results obtained by the planchette
and by table-tilting, too, seemed entirely automatic and independent of
the percipient's normal consciousness, so that, if he knew what he
was guessing, it was by observation of an occurrence with which
he had had nothing consciously to do. With numbers or pictures,
when the object guessed was seen or heard as a hallucination or quasi-
hallucination, it was, of course, necessary that this should be con
sciously perceived, or it could not have been described to us. But
there is no reason to think that the initial process in these cases was
different, or more likely to be affected by the percipient's conscious
effort ; for the idea did not consciously precede the hallucination, the
percipient only became aware of it through the hallucination. When
impressions were long in coming, we used sometimes to urge the per
cipient to try to see the number or picture, and P., especially, used
spontaneously and emphatically to protest that he really was trying his
best ; but we never had any reason to think that this trying had any
good effect on the result. Of course, we do not mean that expectation
on the percipient's part was not a favourable condition ;—it probably
was. But the expectation which assists or produces sensory effects
beyond our ordinary control, such as anesthesia or sensory hallucina
tions, is generally of a subconscious kind, involving no consciously
directed attention. What we conceive to happen with our percipients
is that, having placed themselves in a general readiness to see some
hallucinatory number or picture, or for one finger to become rigid and
anesthetic, the particular number or particular finger is determined by
some impulse, and the desired motor or sensory effect is carried out by
some operation of the mind,' of which they are entirely unaware.
This brings us to the last point to which we wish to draw atten
tion, namely, the much greater uniformity of success in the experiments
i We luwl the idea that it might help us if we could make use of the subcon-
scioua part of the agent's mind as well as the percipient's, and that, c.y., a post
hypnotic hallucination experienced by the agent might be more easily transferred
than an ordinary idea, but most of our experiments under this condition were made
with agent and percipient in different hou,es, and failed. We still think that the
condition may be a favourable one and hope to make further experiments on this
point.
590 Mrs. H. fiidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson.
with fingers than in any others. Practically, with P. and Miss B. and
with Mr. Gurney's subjects, success could be relied on in these experi
ments when Mr. Smith pointed at the finger to be affected (at any rate,
until our last two days, when, if we may use a metaphor, we had perhaps
put the machinery out of gear by varying the experiments too much) ;
while in all our other forms of thought-transference experiment';, success
varied from day to day in the most inexplicable manner. Now, the most
marked difference between the finger experiments and others is that
at no stage do the finger experiments affect any process with which the
normal consciousness of the percipient is ever concerned, and perhaps
we may legitimately draw the inference that the more his conscious
intelligence can be kept out of the way the easier success will be. If
this be so, it may be profitable at the present stage of our inquiries to
direct our attention more than we have hitherto done to producing by
telepathy physiological effects, and such simple movements as are con
stantly performed unconsciously, taking care of course with these last
that they are not such as the conscious intelligence would naturally
inhibit, since this would probably introduce an element of difficulty.
The fact that such effects and such actions are among those most easily
produced by verbal suggestion adds to the probability that mental
suggestion, too, would here find its easiest sphere of action.
Nupplcmentl 597
'William Stainton-Moses.
SUPPLEMENT.
i.
WILLIAM STAINTON-MOSES.
In here commemorating the decease, on September 5th, at the age of fifty-
three, of my old friend, William Stainton-Moses, it would have been more
congenial to my feelings to have confined myself to a brief but sincere
expression of personal respect and regard. But I should not thus do justice
to the deep significance of certain events in his career. I personally regard
his life as one of the most noteworthy lives of our generation ; and from few
men have I heard at first hand facts comparable in importance for me with
those which I heard from him. Statements like these need serious justifica
tion ; nor can they be justified without a perfectly frank discussion both of
his gifts and of his limitations. What I shall now say I have said in effect to
himself, without offence ; and his other friends, I trust, will feel that it is
only by recognising his points of deficiency—unimportant in themselves, but
widely observable and observed—that we can effectively claim recognition for
his substantial worth, or attention for the weighty message which his personal
experiences hold for mankind.
It was on May 9th, 1874, that Edmund Gurney and I met Stainton-Moses
for the first time, through the kindness of Mrs. Cowper-Temple (now Lady
Mount-Temple), who knew that we had become interested in " psychical "
problems, and wished to introduce us to a man of honour who had recently
experienced phenomena, due wholly to some gift of his own, which had
profoundly changed his conception of life.
That evening was epoch-making in Gurney's life and mine. Standing as
we were in the attitude natural at the commencement of such inquiries, under
such conditions as were then attainable— an attitude of curiosity tempered
by a vivid perception of difficulty and drawback—we now met a man of
University education, of manifest sanity and probity, who vouched to us for
a series of phenomena—occurring to himself, and with no doubtful or venal
aid—which seemed at least to prove, in confusedly intermingled form, three
main theses unknown to Science. These were (1) the existence in the human
spirit of hidden powers of insight and of communication ; (2) the personal
survival and near presence of the departed ; and (3) interference, due to
unknown agencies, with the ponderable world. He spoke frankly and fully ; he
showed his notebooks ; he referred us to his friends ; ho inspired a belief
which was at once sufficient, and which is still sufficient, to prompt to action.
The facts which thus impressed us found printed record mainly in a small
598 William Stainton-Moses. Isupplement.
book called spirit Identity, now out of print. Some were described in
articles in Human Nature, a magazine since defunct. We obtained verbal
corroboration from Mr. F. W. Percival, Fellow of Queen's College, Oxford,,
and from the late Serjeant Cox. And quite recently the contemporaneous
notes of Mrs. Speer, fully corroborating Stainton-Moses' own account, have
been appearing in the pages of Liyht.
This certainly is not a very complete or satisfactory manner of setting
forth a message of great import to mankind. But both the virtues and the
defects of the recipient of that message were such as to render him ill-suited
to obtain for it the serious attention of the scientific world.
The experiences which Stainton-Moses had undergone had changed his
views but not his character. He was already set in the mould of the hard
working, conscientious, dogmatic clergyman, with a strong desire to do good,
and a strong belief in preaching as the best way to do it. For himself the
essential part of what I have called his "message " lay in the actual words
automatically uttered or written—not in the accompanying phenomena which
really gave their uniqueness and importance to the automatic processes now
so familiar. In a book called Spirit Teachings he collected what he
regarded as the rotl fruits of those years of mysterious listening in the
vestibule of a world unknown.
And much as we may regret this too exclusive ethical preoccupation in n•
region where the establishment of actual fact is still the one thing needful, it
must be admitted that twenty years ago the scientific importance of these
phenomena had hardly dawned on any mind. Among all the witnesses of D. D.
Home's marvels Mr. Crookes was almost the only man who made any attempt
to treat them as reasonable men treat all the facts of nature. Most of the wit
nesses, though fully believing in the genuineness of the wonders, appear to have
regarded them as a kind of uncanny diversion. The more serious sought for
assurance that their beloved dead were still near them, and straitly charged
Mr. Home to tell no man of the proofs which they said had brought to
themselves unspeakable joy. An attempt made, in 1875, by Serjeant Cox
and a few others (among whom were Stainton-Moses and myself), to get
these phenomena more seriously discussed in a "Psychological Society"
languished for want of suitable coadjutors, and on the death of Serjeant Cox
(in 187!*) the Society was dissolved. During these important years, therefore,
while his experiences were fresh in Stainton-Moses' mind, and while they
were to some extent still recurring, he had little encouragement to deal with
them from a scientific point of view.
When, however, in 1882, Professor Barrett consulted him as to the possi
bility of founding a new society, under better auspices, he warmly welcomed
the plan. Edmund Gurney and I were asked to join, but made it a condi
tion that the consent of Professor Sidgwick (with whom we had already been
working) to act as our President should first be obtained. Under his guid
ance the Society for Psychical Research assumed a more cautious and critical
attitude than was congenial to Stainton Moses' warm heart, strong convictions,
and impulsive temper, and in 1886 he left the Society, in consequence of the
publication in the Proceedings of certain comments on phenomena occurring
through the agency of the so-called " medium " Eglinton.
From this time he frankly confessed himself disgusted with our attempts
Hupplement.l 599
William Stainton-Moses.
at scientific method, and as main contributor to Light and afterwards editor
until his death, he practically reverted to "Spiritualism as a religion"—as
opposed to psychical research as a scientific duty. And assuredly the religious
implications of all these phenomena are worthy of any man's most serious
thought. But those who most feel the importance of the ethical super
structure are at the same time most plainly bound to treat the establish
ment of the facts at the foundation as no mere personal search for a faith, to
be dropped when private conviction has been attained, but as a serious, a
continuous, a public duty. And the more convinced they are that their faith
is sound, the more readyjshould they bo to face distrust and aversion,—tolay
their account for a long struggle with the vis inertia of the human spirit.
Stainton-Moses was ill-fitted for this patient, uphill toil. In the first
place he lacked—and he readily and repeatedly admitted to me that he
lacked—all vestige of scientific, or even of legal instinct. The very words
" first-hand evidence," " contemporary record," " corroborative testimony,"'
were to him as a weariness to the flesh. His attitude was that of the
preacher who is already so thoroughly persuaded in his own mind that he
treats any alleged fact which falls in with his views as the uncriticised text
for fresh exhortation. And in the second place—though this was a minor
matter—his natural sensitiveness was sometimes exaggerated by gout and
other wearing ailments into an irritability which he scarcely felt compelled
to conceal in a journal circulating mainly among attached disciples.
The reason for noticing these defects is that they constitute the only
ground on which Stainton-Moses' trustworthiness as a witness to his own
phenomena could possibly be impugned. I mention them in order that I
may say that, having read, I think, all that he has printed, and having
watched his conduct at critical moments, I see much ground for impugning
his judgment, but no ground whatever for doubting that he has narrated
with absolute good faith the story of his own experience. He allowed mo,
before he left the Society, to examine almost the whole series of his
automatic writings ; those especially which contain the evidence on which
dpirit Identity is based ; and in no instance did I find that the printed
statement of any case went beyond the warrant of the manuscript. On the
contrary, although that book contains much careless writing and many
general phrases of a loose rhetorical kind, I believe that the cases themselves,
if stated with proper completeness, would often be found even stronger
evidentially than the book makes out.
Let me go back in memory, then, to 1874, and ask myself how far the
impression then made has stood the test of subsequent experience. On the
negative side I must place an increased knowledge of the possibility of
unconscious fraud in abnormal states, and an increased realisation of what
indeed was at once evident—the unscientific cast of Stainton-Moses' mind.
On the positive side I place the important corroborative testimony of Mi s.
Speer, now first printed. And I must bear in mind also the significant fact
that new and independent evidence has reached us from many quarters of
phenomena closely parallel to much, though not to all, which seemed isolated
and exceptional in Stainton-Moses' earlier accounts. On the positive side,
too, I must reckon the way in which his character has worn on the whole
during these eighteen years. Those years contained for him much of moral
(;oo ISupplement.
William Stain ton-Moses.
trial, of physical strain and suffering ; but although they brought out errors
of judgment and temper, they revealed nothing inconsistent with high aims,
intense convictions, a conscience heedful of the end.
If, then, on some future occasion it is permitted to me to analyse the
records of those strange experiences, the reader will understand the attitude
in which I shall think it right to approach them. We must be on the watch,
no doubt, for any indication of self-deception, of misinterpretation, of narrow
views. But we ought in justice to feel that we are dealing with the work of
a sincere fellow-labourer in our seldom-trodden field.
The gift which Stainton-Moses possessed is a strange and perplexing one.
We know nothing of the laws which govern its distribution. It is not yet
recognised as constituting a claim on the admiration or the gratitude of man
kind. Yet if, indeed, through such glimpses, such messages, as came to my
friend, our race is being obscurely guided into an avenue of eternal hope, it
matters little whether we talk of chance or of merit. For who of mortals
need ask for better than to be made, whether by chance or merit, a landmark
on such a way /
Frederic \V H. Myers.
supplement.l International Congress. 601
II.
THE SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF
EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY.
The Second International Congress of Experimental Psychology' met in
University College, London, by the kind permission of the authorities, on
the first four days of August, 1892. It was attended by over 300 persons,
including nearly a hundred visitors from all parts of Europe, and from
America and Australia. This Congress, although (as will be seen) it was in
no way identified with the S.P.R., presented, nevertheless, certain points of
contact, whose significance we may here endeavour fairly to estimate. The
Congress met under the Presidency of the President of our Society ; one of
its Hon. Sees, was one of the Hon. Sees, of the S.P.R. ; and the majority
of the English members attending were either members of the S.P.R. or
at least in avowed sympathy with its aims. Taken with all the reservations
to be presently mentioned, we think that these facts indicate that the severe
taboo long imposed upon the subjects with which we deal has been tacitly
removed ; and that although little or no scientific credit may yet attach to
our special researches, yet they are no longer generally regarded as invalidat
ing or depreciating such claim to attention as work in other departments may
have secured for any inquirer. Remembering as we do the state of scientific
feeling some twenty years ago, when our own attention was first seriously
directed to these subjects ;—or even the state of scientific feeling some ten
years ago, when the S.P.R. was founded ;—we cannot but feel that this
forward step has been achieved more rapidly than we had any good ground
to expect.
But while we thus attach much importance to the fact that at this Congress,
for the first time in England, the representatives of our Society have claimed
a place for their special investigations, as a recognised department of the
scientific study of psychology, and have had their claim admitted without
opposition ; and while we set great value on the harmonious relations that
we have thus established with psychologists pursuing more beaten lines of
inquiry, we do not, of course, infer from these relations that the reality of
telepathy or thought-transference is now generally accepted by psychologists.
No vote on this subject was taken at the Congress, and we did not desire
that it should be taken ; indeed, we were particularly anxious that it should
be clearly understood that no one, by attending the Congress, was even in
the most indirect way committed to a view in favour of the conclusions which
the workers of our Society have put forward. We were quite content to
have the unrivalled opportunity which such a Congress affords of drawing
i An account of the First Congress, which met in Paris, August, 188U, will be
found in Proceedingt, Vol. VI., p. 171.
.G02 The Second International Congress of ISupplement.
the attention of psychologists to the nature and extent of our evidence, and
of explaining fully our methods of statistical and experimental inquiry.
In order adequately to obtain this advantage, it was necessary that the
Congress should be—what its first founders in Paris intended it to be—fairly
and fully representative of the whole range of experimental psychology, and
should not merely represent the workers in a limited department of the
subject. When, however, the benevolent interest accorded in Paris to our
special lines of inquiry had led us to undertake the duty, offered us by the
first Congress, of organising an International Meeting of Experimental
Psychologists in London, we were aware that the task of making such a
meeting fairly and fully representative of the whole subject would not be
free from difficulties. We were aware that the amount of attention given in
Paris to hypnotism and cognate subjects had incurred some disapproval,
especially in Germany ; and we were aware that if a Congress in Paris under
M. Ribot's presidency was found to be in this respect unorthodox, a Congress
in London presided over by the President of the S.P.R. might be naturally
.expected to exhibit unorthodoxy of this kind in a still more alarming degree.
We were afraid that such expectations might have a tendency to bring about
their own fulfilment, by leading important representatives of more orthodox
psychology to keep aloof from us.
Accordingly, we thought it our duty to show clearly, in planning the work
.of the Congress and inviting papers, that we did not confound our functions
as organisers of the Congress with our functions as officials of the S.P.R.
We therefore took great care to avoid giving an undue place to the inquiries
in which we were specially interested ; and aimed, on the contrary, at making
-our list of papers as adequately representative as possible of the various lines
of inquiry, pursued by very diverse methods, which come within the range
of psychology,—understood in its widest sense as including the physiology of
the brain and nervous system. We think the list of 42 papers (including
three reports) which were laid before the Congress shows that we succeeded
tolerably well in this endeavour. But we could hardly have hoped for any
thing like this degree of success without the invaluable aid of Professor
Sully, to whose intermediation we were further indebted for the privilege of
meeting in the spacious lecture-rooms which the authorities of University
College liberally placed at our disposal.
Reassured by the comprehensive nature of our programme, and by the
names of the contributors who had responded to the invitations of the two
secretaries, the foreign psychologists attended in numbers that realised our
highest hopes. The greatest of the living men of science of Germany— von
Helmholtz—attended the afternoon meetings of the first two days, before he
passed on to the British Association in Edinburgh. Besides him, the
University of Berlin was represented by Professors Preyer and Ebbinghaus,
who both contributed papers on the interesting subjects of the "Origin of
Numbers" and "Colour-Perception" respectively. Dr. Goldscheider, of
Berlin, who was unable to come, also contributed a valuable paper on " The
Muscular Sense of the Blind." Professor Miinsterberg, of Freiburg, and
Professor Lange, of Odessa, also represented the German school of psychology
by contributing papers, though they were prevented by illness from being
present in person. On the more physiological side, Germany was represented
Experimental Psychologg. 603
by the distinguished name of Hitzig, who contributed an account of the cure
-of attacks of morbid sleep by hypnotic suggestion. From France we had
Professor Richet and Professor Pierre Janet, with whose names all our
readers will be familiar ; Professors Bernheim, Delboeuf, and Liegeois, known
to all students of hypnotism ; as well as Dr. B^rillon, editor of the Revue
de I'Hypnotisme, and M. Marillier, who has had the conduct of the Census of
Hallucinations in France. All these contributed papers or reports ; and we
also received papers from Dr. Liebeault, the founder of the ' ' School of
Nancy," and Professor Beaunis—formerly at Nancy—who co-operated in
securing for the School of Nancy the recognition of the value of its work in
hypnotism which is now generally accorded to it. Belgium, Denmark,
Holland, Norway, Sweden, Roumania, and Russia also furnished representa
tives and contributors ; and the Transatlantic activity which is now being
turned into the direction of experimental psychology found expression in
four papers—one of these being by a lady, Mrs. Ladd Franklin, who main
tained a theory of " Colour-Perception " opposed to that of Professor
Ebbinghaus. Among the well-known English psychologists or philosophers
who attended we may mention the distinguished names of Dr. Bain, Mr.
Shadworth Hodgson, and Mr. A. J. Balfour, the first of whom opened the
proceedings with a weighty paper on " The Respective Spheres and Mutual
Aids of Introspection and Experiment in Psychology."
The abundance of our material having rendered a division into sections
necessary, we thought it best to allot Neurology and Psychophysics to one
section (A), and Hypnotism and cognate questions to another section (B).
The discussions of section B were carried on for three mornings—Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday ; along with these, the discussion on a paper by
Professor Janet, read on Monday afternoon, on a peculiar case of loss of
memory, and that on the Report of the Census of Hallucinations, which was
read on Wednesday afternoon, form the part of the whole proceedings which
properly comes within the scope of our Society. We propose accordingly,
in the detailed account that follows, to confine ourselves to these discussions,
but we must not omit to notice that Professor Richet in the suggestive sketch
of the Future of Psychology, with which he opened the proceedings on
Monday afternoon, allotted an important place to the " psychologie trans-
cendentale " which we claim as our special concern.
Professor Janet gave a description of a case of amnesia which differed
from ordinary loss of memory in being not merely "retrograde" but
"antegressive," i.e., the patient had not merely lost a portion of her stored
recollections of the past, but also her power of acquiring new recollections.
The malady was due to an emotional shock caused—on August 28th, 1891—
by a heartless practical joke : in consequence of the shock she appeared not
merely to have lost the memory of all events that had occurred during the
six weeks preceding August 28th, but also to have become incapable of
remembering anything that had occurred since : all impressions seemed to
«lido over her without leaving the least trace. But some sentences uttered
in sleep showed that though these recollections were now lost to her waking
consciousness, they had not vanished altogether, and the application of
hypnotism was found to restore them completely during the hypnotic trance.
Professor Janet also found that even in her waking state there was an
604 The Second International Congress of ISupplement.
unconscious memory of theuo apparently forgotten events, of which he
obtained evidence by means of automatic writing or speaking, performed
when her consciousness was concentrated on some other process. His
explanation was that the malady had not affected the memory—taken in its
widest sense—but had produced a peculiar kind of " desagr£gation psycho-
logique " by weakening the patient's power of " attachingto her personality "
her more recent experiences.
Professor Ebbinohaus, of Berlin, while recognising the interest of the
facts brought before the Congress by Professor Janet, was inclined to suggest
a different explanation ; viz., that the patient's consciousness was so com
pletely absorbed by present feelings and perceptions that she had not spare
mental energy sufficient for the work of reproducing past experiences unti)
the distractions of the present were shut out. Accordingly, in sleep, or in
the hypnotic trance, the absence of such distractions was naturally accom
panied by the revival of memory.
The President pointed out that though Dr. Ebbinghaus' explanation
ingeniously met the facts of recovery of memory in dreams and the hypnotic
trance, it hardly seemed applicable to the manifestation of unconscious or
subconscious memory through automatic speaking and writing in the norma!
state.
On Tuesday morning, after a paper from Dr. Liebeault, on a " Case of
Suicidal Mania Cured by Suggestion," had been read by Professor LitSgeois,
an interesting discussion was introduced by a paper of Dr. Van Eeden,
advocating strongly the use of suggestion as a therapeutic agency, but
deprecating the use of hypnotism strictly so-called ; on the ground that the
heightened suggestibility of the hypnotic state was an "abnormal con
dition " depending on "ataxia or disintegration of the psyche," which must
be strictly avoided. In Dr. Van Eeden's view therapeutic suggestion
should be addressed " to the intellect and conscious volition of the sufferer.
. . . Suggestibility, as denned by French authors, consists of two parts,
ideoplastic power "—i.e., influence of ideas on bodily functions—"and im
pressionability." His idea is to increase ideoplastic power, and bring it as
much as possible under the influence of conscious volition, without in
creasing impressionability.
The discussion on this paper was opened by Dr. Bernheim, who denied
the "abnormality" of the hypnotic state. The heightened suggestibility
which Dr. Van Eeden regards as evidence of abnormality is found—urged
Dr. Bernheim—in ordinary sleep; dreams are "sensorial self-suggestions."
At the same time, there are undoubtedly many ways in which suggestion
may be made to operate apart from hypnotism, e.g., in the processes of
hydrotherapy and electrotherapy.
Dr. Berillon considered that the School of Nancy went too far in
identifying hypnotic suggestibility and the hypnotic trance with ordinary-
suggestibility and ordinary sleep. The artificial suppression of cerebral
control and the temporary reduction of the subject to an automaton in the
hands of the hypnotiser—doubtless in consequence of the temporary torpor
of certain cerebral cells—must be regarded as the special characteristic of the
hypnotic state. It was therefore abnormal, though Dr. Berillon by no.
means thought that it ought therefore to be excluded from medical use.
Supplement.l 605
Experimentid Psychologg.
Dr. Bebnhbim said that the susceptibility to external suggestion which
Dr. BiSrillon regarded as peculiar to the hypnotic trance might also he
developed in ordinary sleep, if suggestions were given to the sleeper in such
a manner as not to awaken him.
Professor Dei-bieuf, of Liege, agreed with Professor Bernheim that
there was nothing abnormal in the hypnotic state. He also agreed that
curative suggestion might be equally effective without hypnotisation as with
it ; illustrating this by some striking examples from his own experience.
Dr. Sperling, of Berlin, said that as we do not yet know what normal sleep
is, it is not easy to say whether the hypnotic trance is the same or something
different. Also we must avoid falling into a dispute about words. The
hypnotic sleep was clearly a state of heightened suggestibility, but it was
equally true that high suggestibility was sometimes found in the waking state ;
and undoubtedly suggestion was often a factor in other modes of treatment
than the hypnotic—such as electrotherapy, to which Dr. Bernheim had
referred. Only it was impossible to say exactly how far suggestion operated
before we had estimated what electricity—or any similar agent—could do
without suggestion. The determination of this by careful experiment was a
point of much importance.
After this discussion there was an interesting controversy between Dk.
Bekn'Heim and Dr. Mendelssohn, from St. Petersburg. The former con
tended, in a paper on " Hysterical Amblyopia," that hysterical defects of
vision and all the disorders and diminutions of sensibility in hysterical
subjects were "purely psychical"; i.e., that the sense-perceptions in such
cases were normal, but that self-suggestion prevented them from having
their due effect on the subject's mind. Dr. Mendelssohn, on the other
hand, argued that some more constant cerebral cause was to be inferred
from the regularity with which similar effects manifested themselves in
different cases of hysterical affections.
On Wednesday morning Professor Delbocuf, of Liege, began the first
paper, which was on "TheAppreciation of Time bySomnambulists, "and which
is printed in full in this part of our Proceedings, by distinguishing the cases
brought forward by him from the ordinary cases of suggestions called " Sug
gestions a echeance "—i.e., suggestions to be realised at a distant date—
which only proved that a hypnotised subject was capable of performing an
act at a date indicated a long time in advance, without any consciousness of
the real motive force that prompted the act. But the faculty that he had
studied was different ; it was that of appreciating more or less approximately,
without conscious calculation or means of indication, the passing of time.
He had studied it with two young, robust and healthy countrywomen, now
married and mothers, good somnambulists, whose names were constantly to
be met with in his works on hypnotism. Those two subjects were incapable
of reducing exactly into hours and minutes a number of minutes such as
1,000 or even 350, much more of calculating at what hour the 1,050th minute
after 6.35 p.m. would fall. They received suggestions which they were to
perform after 350, 900, 1,600, 1,150, 1,300, 3,300 minutes. In two cases out
of thirteen the suggested acts were performed exactly at the time ordered ;
in the other eleven cases the time at which they were performed differed
from the time suggested by a period varying from ^th to -:?7th of the whole
2 s
G06 The Second International Congress of isuppiem-nt.
interval fixed. M. Delboeuf ended by saying that he drew no conclusion
from his experiments except that the subject was one to be studied.
After the conclusion of Dr. Delbteuf's paper
The President said that he had listened with great interest to Professor
Delbceuf's account of his experiments. If he might venture to rush in where
the caution of the author had prevented him from treading, and attempt a
solution of the remarkable results described, he would suggest that we might
suppose that both the power of estimating the lapse of time, and also the
power of counting, ordinarily possessed by M. Delboeuf's two subjects, had
been extended in consequence of the hypnotic condition, perhaps owing to
the concentration of cerebral energy incident to that condition. Such an
extension would seem to be more or less analogous to the extensions of the
faculties of sense-perception that frequently occur in the hypnotic trance.
It seemed to him that this explanation was rendered all the more probable
by the fact that the act ordered was not performed exactly at the time or
dered in 11 out of the 13 experiments tried by M. Delboeuf. It is natural
to suppose that in these cases the reckoning had been only rough and ap
proximate.
" In connection with this question," he continued, " it seems to me that
it would be worth while to make a systematic inquiry into the supposed
power of knowing the lapse of time in sleep, which many persons believe
themselves to possess. If it could be shown that the human organism can
somehow measure the lapse of time in sleep more accurately than it can
measure this lapse through an equally long period of waking life—without
the aid of clocks or watches—it would be easier to understand how this in
creased faculty of time-measurement should appear in the hypnotic state
Now, probably we have all met persons, of the most highly educated class,
who firmly believe themselves to have the power of waking at any hour they
like—to cateh a train, or for any similar object. For such practical purposes
a very rough approximation would, of course, be sufficient, and the explana
tion of the alleged faculty which is usually accepted among scientific persons
who do not possess it is that the self-waker has really only the power of
giving himself a lighter sleep than usual, so that he probably wakes several
times during the night, or wakes early—when the morning light and noises
begin to assail his senses—and then dozes and wakes at brief intervals till
the appointed time arrives. But I have met several persons who altogether
deny that their own experiences can be explained in this way : and in one or
two of the experiments that I have persuaded them to try, a remarkable
degree of exactitude without previous waking has been reported. Systematic
experiments on the point are, however, much to be desired, and my object
in speaking now is, if possible, to persuade some of the persons who believe
themselves to possess this power to make such experiments in sufficient
number and with the care and exactness in recording conditions which are,
of course, indispensable, if the result is to have any scientific value. It
would be necessary to write down overnight, in hours and minutes, the hour
appointed for waking ; then to note the exact time of waking that came
nearest to this, and at least the number—if not the exact times—of the
wakings that had occurred previously during the night : to exclude all sounds
of clocks or church bells, and, if possible, by varying the conditions, to
Supplement.l 607
Experimental Psychologg.
exclude any important operations of changes in light and noise, and in any
case to note these last. If any self-waker will have the patience to try such
.experiments systematically and to record the results, I shall be much obliged
to him if he will either send me such record, or notify me where it is pub
lished."
Then followed a paper by Professor Hitzk;, describing a remarkable
case of cure of morbid sleep-attacks by hypnotic suggestion. After this Mr.
Myers read a paper on the " Experimental Induction of Hallucinations,"
which appears, in an expanded form, in this part of our Proceedings. Some
comments from Professor Janet which followed, are now embodied in the
paper itself (p. 482).
On Wednesday afternoon Professor Sidgwick read in an abridged form
n part of his final Report on the Census of Hallucinations,—of which two
ud interim reports have been already published in our Proceediays. It is
hoped to publish the whole report in an early number of these Proceed
ings. Professor Sidgwick began by describing the somewhat elaborate
method used to secure as complete accuracy as possible in the statement of
the results of the 17,000 answers received by him to the questions circulated.
Speaking broadly, it appeared that about one in ten of the persons (taken at
random) from whom inquiry was made remembered experiences of the kind
inquired into. . Among these the largest class consisted of realistic human
apparitions of living people or unrecognised human figures, the number of
apparitions of dead persons being relatively small, and the number of grotesque
apparitions still smaller. In only a very small percentage of cases was there
any observed disturbance of health at the time of the hallucination—the
hallucinations of fever and madness having been excluded by the
original definition. A remarkable class of cases was that of collective
apparitions, the same hallucinations being simultaneously perceived by two
or more persons. In some of these there seemed a possibility of verbal
suggestion from one percipient to another ; in others no communication
seemed to have been possible except such as may exist independently of any
of the recognised organs of sense. The collective class led on to the still
more remarkable class of coincidental hallucinations, or those which occur
simultaneously with some distant event with which they seem to be con
nected, especially the death of the person whose figure appears. The actual
proportion of coincidental to non-coincidental cases, after all deductions for
possible sources of error, was in fact such that the probability against the
supposition of chance coincidence became enormous, on the assumption of
ordinary accuracy on the part of informants. If the theory of a causal con
nection was to be set aside it must be by straining the assumption of
inaccuracy on the informant's part to an extreme pitch.
M. Marillier, in the course of his report on the inquiries made iu
Prance on the same subject, stated that he had had great difficulty in obtain
ing any replies to his inquiries. This was due to several causes, among which
the chief was the repugnance of the French public to give any information
on psychological subjects. The statistical results obtained by M. Marillier
coincided broadly with the result of the English investigation : and the same
• is true of the results of the American inquiry, forwarded by Mr. Hodgson.
In the discussion that followed—
2 S 3
608 The Second International Congress of ISupplement
Dr. O.hler (Johns Hopkins University) remarked that no one who saw
a hallucinatory figure could foe said to foe in good health of foody and mind.
The mere fact of experiencing a hallucination implied some serious organic
disturbance.
Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell said that a new meaning seemed to have
been given to the term " hallucination " in the report that they had heard :
since, as commonly used in medicine, the term implied morbidity.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers said that Dr. Osier's view was hardly tenable in
face of the fact with which hypnotism had made us familiar—that a full
blown hallucination could be produced in many healthy subjects by a mere
" post-hypnotic order," with no concomitant or subsequent organic disturb
ance. A rarer, but even more instructive, class of experimental hallucina
tions were those caused from a distance by an effort of concentration on the
part of the agent. He saw among the audience Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-
Notzing, who had made a successful experiment of this rare kind.
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzino then described briefly the experiment more
fully recorded in the Journal for October, 1888 (Vol. III., p. 307). The
design of this experiment was to impress, if possible, an idea of himself on a
friend at a distance, who had no knowledge that the experiment was being
tried. What in fact happened was that the friend had a hallucinatory
vision of him, coinciding in time with the experiment ; as he afterwards
learnt, both from the percipient herself, and from a friend who was with her
at the time.
Professor Franklin (Johns Hopkins University) held that if the hallu
cinatory apparition was of a person known to be ill—even if the knowledge
were not accompanied by anxiety—the chances against the coincidence of
hallucination and death would be very much reduced.
The President said that no doubt the chances would foe somewhat-
reduced in this case : since, if the percipient's state of health at the time
were such as to cause a hallucination it would perhaps be more probable
that it would take the form of a friend known to be ill than of one known
to be well. But mere knowledge without anxiety could not foe regarded as a
vera causa of hallucinations : therefore, if—as was most frequently the case
in his collection—the hallucination were the percipient's only experience of
the kind, the chances would still foe very much against its coinciding acci
dentally with the death of a friend. In reply to Dr. Osier, he wished to
explain that the statements with regard to health in the report were made,
after careful consideration of the answers received, with the advice and con
currence of a physician who was a member of the Committee.
The first paper on Thursday morning was read by Dr. Berillon, editor
of the Revue da VHypnotixme. It was entitled "Lea Applications de la
Suggestion Hypnotique it l'Education. " He said that in 1886 he had first called
attention to the application which might be made of suggestion in education.
Since then he had tried to induce hypnotism in 250 children of both sexes,
from which experiments he had deduced the following conclusions. Of ten
children from six to fifteen years, taken from all classes of society, eight were
susceptible of being sent into a profound sleep after the first or second seance.
Hohust, healthy children whose hereditary antecedents were in no way un
supplement.l Experimental Psychologg. GO!)
favourable were generally very liable to suggestion, and consequently very
easily hypnotised. This capacity for suggestion and hypnotism had been
utilised to treat the following cases, which concerned education as much as
medicine :—Nervous insomnia, terror manifested at night, somnambulism,
kleptomania, tics, stammering, inveterate idleness, uncleanliness, cowardice,
the habit of biting the nails, and moral perversity. These facts had since
been verified by a large number of authors. They constituted the practical
-side of psychology. Suggestion afforded a process of psychological investiga
tion which enabled them to submit to a rigorous analysis the development of
the various intellectual faculties in the child, and to benefit education by the
use of the experimental method.
Dr. Van Eeuen considered that artifices such as paralysing the arm by
-suggestion, which Dr. Berillon had described himself as using in an extreme
.case of thievish disposition, wore undesirable with children, and that moral
suggestion alone should be employed.
Dr. Bernheim was of opinion that regular hypnotisation was not often
jieeded with young children. The mother was able to inspire the needed
suggestions at times of special susceptibility, as during the act of falling
asleep. Even when asleep children would usually respond to any verbal sug
gestion. It was impossible to create either an intelligence or a moral sense
not born in a child ; but it was possible and desirable to repair by suggestion
those perversions of moral sense which were merely due to the influence of
bad companionship.
M. Berillon replied that it was impossible to say by simple inspection
whether the lack of moral sense in a child was due to original defect or to
subsequent perversion. The result of treatment alone would show.
M. Delbieuf agreed with Dr. Van Eeden that physical artifices were of
little service in curing a child, say, of the habit of theft.
M. Berillon agreed that the physical artifice should be regarded as a last
resort.
Dr. von ScHreXCK-NoTzinti, of Munich, expressed the hope that Dr.
Berillon's interesting paper, when published, would contain statistical state
ments, indicating the proportion of successor to failures in his experience,
and carefully distinguishing transient from permanent effects.
The Presibent (Professor Sidgwick) said that he thought they would all
agree that Dr. Van Eeden's method of appealing to the child's moral sense
should be the only one tried in ordinary cases. But he thought that Dr.
Berillon had sufficiently guarded himself against being supposed to do more
than recommend hypnotic treatment as supplementing, not supplanting,
moral suasion. It seemed to him that, so restricted, it was a valuable instru
ment which it would be a mistake to reject.
Mrs. SiDi;wicK then read a paper on some experiments in thought-
transference, which is published in an expanded form in this part of our
JProeeedi,wjs.
The proceedings of the morning concluded with a paper by Professor
Lteoeois (of Nancy) on a case of poisoning under the influence, as he believed,
of suggestion ; which led to a discussion on the justice of punishing crimes
committed under the overmastering influence of another will.
On two afternoons during the Congress Dr. Bramwell gave interesting
CIO The Second International Congress of Isupplement.
illustrations of some of the effects of hypnotism, and described some of his
experiences in producing analgesia, relieving from sea-sickness, &e. One of
the most interesting things he described was the removal, in one case, of
myopia by suggestion. He especially dwelt on the fact that it was easy to
insure that patients should exercise free choice as to whether they would
accept or reject any particular suggestion of their hypnotiser.
The names thus mentioned of the principal speakers in the Hypnotic
Section seem fairly representative of the study and practice of hypnotism at
the present moment, and although the papers covered a wide range, the
growth of certain general tendencies, as compared with the Congress held in
Paris three years since, might be plainly noted. Speaking broadly, there
was a tendency to greater agreement as to fact, and to greater diffidence as.
to theory.
I. In the first place, as to the actual observed facts of hypnotism, there is
now a more universal admission of the theinjieutic advantage derivable fronv
hypnotic suggestion. The former doubt as to this beneficial action was
mainly connected with the view, now rapidly losing ground, that hypnotism,
was in itself a form of hysteria, and likely to induce other forms. It still
remains impossible to doubt that injudicious hypnotism may do serious,
harm ; but the mishaps thus far recorded have been fewer than was probably
expected in any quarter. On the other hand, many of the cures effected by
suggestion have now had time to prove their permanence. Although it was
not with these therapeutic uses of hypnotism that the Congress was primarily
concerned, some remarkable cures were recorded.
II. Along with this fuller agreement as to the desirability of frequent
use of hypnotic suggestion in medical practice, went a general recognition of
the important fact that susceptibility to hypnotic suggestion is not in itself
an indication of hysteria, or of any morbid condition whatever, in the sub
ject. The School of Nancy, of course, have all along been sound on this
point ; and the strong assertions of Dr. Bernheim were here supported by the
experience of the Parisian Dr. Borillon, who maintained that " contrary to the
current opinion " (now current in certain small groups alone) " the difficulties
of inducing profound trance are greater in proportion as the child presents
more decided traces of neuropathic heredity. "
III. A third conviction to which independent experience was seen to
have led many observers, is that of the great importance of self-suggestiim in
all forms of psycho-therapy. Dr. Van Eeden laid almost exclusive stress on
what the patient could accomplish for himself, by resolute effort of will, if
properly guided and encouraged by his physician. Professor Dellxjeuf
also insisted that in perhaps every case the patient's cure was
effected merely by a firmer reliance on his own powers of will ; by the
intensification, that is to say, of a moral process entirely normal, and not
really dependent upon assistance from without. Carried away by his grow
ing sense of the essential power of the patient's own will, and the compara
tive superficiality of the aid afforded by hypnotic artifice, the eminent
professor of Liege went so far as to exclaim that "all there was in hypnotism
was the word hypnotism itself."
IV. But such a dictum is of course not a solution, but only a displace
ment of difficulties. This great and growing mass of phenomena, these new
supplementl Experimental Psychologg. Gil
powers over the organism, these unheard-of effects for good and ill, depend
upon something deeper than the mere invention of a name. When Prof.
Bernheim asserted that the hypnotic trance was neither more nor less than
ordinary sleep, it was well replied by Dr. Sperling that to define thus is
simply to add to the conception of common sleep—already mysterious
enough—a number of fresh mysteries which you do nothing to explain.
The true meaning indeed of this refusal fairly to face the problems of
hypnotism is that men of experience are coming to feel that those problems
do not really form an isolated group, but are dependent upon some deeper
facts in the constitution of man on which neither physiology nor psychology
as yet feels itself prepared to enter. Nor is this chango in attitude a
thing to be deplored. For a time, indeed, the baffled sense that we are
dealing with forces beyond our reach may induce some barrenness in
hypnotic discussions. But it is at least a clear gain to have arrived at a
general agreement that hypnotism, as a subject of psychological study, can
not be limited to the hystero-epileptic phenomena investigated at the
Salpetriere, and to have got beyond the various crude jxasi-physiological
deductions of all hypnotic phenomena from hypothetical changes in cerebral
circulation.
This is not the place for any attempt to foreshadow the more comprehen
sive views to which a wider and freer experimentation already appears to
point. It must be enough to say that in the region of hypnotism, as in the
other regions which our programme of Psychical Research embraces, our
hopes must mainly depend on the amount of actual energy with which Experi
mental Psychology shall be pushed forward even from standpoints which at
present differ from our own. Just as the conquest of Gaul, which for so
long seemed a chimerical hope, became inevitable so soon as the Roman
Republic had reached a certain pitch of military force and ambition, so like
wise when Experimental Psychology has filled its ranks and perfected its
methods, its bolder spirits must needs enter as conquerors the mountain-
guarded region which we are now imperfectly surveying as pioneers of the
scientific host.
H.S.
F. W. H.M.
612 Edmund Gamey Library.
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
SUPPLEMENTARY CATALOGUE, 1892.
Additions since the list in "Proceedings," Vol. VII.
ENGLISH.
Bramwell (J. Milne, M.B.), Hypnotism and Humbug (being
portion of a lecture on Hypnotism delivered before the York
Medical Society, on March 9th, 1892) (2 copies) 1892
OcHOrOWicz (Dr. J.), Mental Suggestion (with a Preface by Pro
fessor Chas. Richet). From the French, by J. FitzGerald,
M.A New York, 1891
Prince (Morton, M.D.), The Nature of Mind and Human Auto
matism Ph iladelphid, 188Ô
RiiiOT (Th.), The Diseases of Personality. Authorised Translation.
Chicago, 1891
Seppilli (Dr. Giuseppi), Report on the Therapeutics of Mental
Diseases(Ame,•ican Journal ofInsanity, Ap., 1891). (Translated
homthcArch.Ital., Sept., 1890) Utica, U.S.A., 1891
Tambckini (Professor A.), On the Nature of the Somatic Pheno
mena in Hypnotism. From the Italian, by J. Workman, M. D.
(The Alienist and Neurologist, July, 1891)....St. Louis, U.S.A. 1891
Tuckey(C. Lloyd, M.D.), On Hypnotism(Brain, Pt. XlV.)Lotidon, 1892
FRENCH.
Journal du Magnétisme, par une Société de Magnétiseurs et de
Médecins sous la direction de M. le Baron Du Potet. 20 vols.
Paris, 1845-1861
Lettre d'un Médecin de la Faculté de Paris, à un Médecin du
Collège de Londres, Ouvrage dans lequel on prouve contre
M. Mesmer que le Magnétisme Animal n'existe pas (Im
perfect) TheHague, 1781
Lettre d'un Médecin à M. Court de Jebelin en réponse à celle
que ce Savant a adressée à ses Souscripteurs, et dans
laquelle il fait un éloge triomphant du Magnétisme-Animal
Bordeaux, 1784
Liébeault (Dr. A. A.), Le Sommeil Provoqué et les États
Analogues Parut, 1889
Max-Simon (Dr. P.), Les Maladies de l'Esprit Paris, 1892
Mesmer (Dr.), Mémoire sur la Découverte du Magnétisme Animal
(Imperfect) Paris, 1779
Philips (Dr. J. P.), Cours Théorique et Pratique de Bniidisme
Paris, 1800
Edmund Gv/rney Library. 613
Richet (Professor C), Essai de Psychologie Generate Paris, 1887
Tarchanoff (Jean de), Hypnotisme, Suggestion et Lecture des
Pensees. From the Russian, by E. Jaubert Paris, 1891
Wurtz, Prospectus d'un nouveau cours theorique et pratique de
Magn^tisme Animal Strasburg, 1787
. GERMAN.
Dessoir (Max), Neues iiber den Hypnotismus. Feuilleton des
Deutschen Roman-Zeitung n.d.
Dreher (Dr. Eugen), Der Hypnotismus, seine Stellung zum
Aberglauben und zur Wissenschaft Berlin, 1889
Grossman* (Dr. J.), Die Erfolge der Suggestionstherapie
(Hypnose) bei Influenza Berlin, 1892
Kramer (P. WA Der Heilmagnetismus :—Seine Theorie und
Praxis. 3rd Edition Leipzig, 1884
MciLLer (Dr. Egbert), Enthiillung des Spukes von Resau.
3rd Edition Berlin, 1889
Rerhel (Willy), Der Heil-Magnetismus Berlin, 1891
Reichenbach (Karl Freiherr von), Ein schwerer Sensitiv-
Sonmambuler Krankheitsfall geheilt ausschliesslich mittelst
einfacher Anwendung der Gesetze des Odes. Herausgegeben
von Dr. A. Freiherrn von Schrenck-Notzing Leipzig, 1891
Ringier (Dr. Georg), Erfolge des therapeutischen Hypnotismus
in der Landpraxis. Mit einem Vorworte von Prof. Dr. Aug.
Foiel Miinchen, 1891
Schmidkunz (Dr. Hans), Psychologieder Suggestion, mit Aerzlich-
Psychologischen Ergiinzungen von Dr. F. C. Gerster
Stuttgart, 1892
SchrenCK-NoTziN'o (Dr. A. Freiherr von), Die Suggestions-
Therapie bei Krankhaften Erscheinungen des Geschlechts-
sinnes Stuttgart, 1892
Zeitschrift fur Hypnotismus, Suggestionstherapie, Sugges-
tionslehre und verwandte psychologische Forschungen.
Redigirt von Dr. J. Grossmann. Heft 1 and 2 Berlin, 1892
Fajardo (Dr. Francisco), Hypnotismo Rio Janeiro, 1889
Grimalm (A.), e Fronda (R.), Trasmissione del Pensiero e Sugges-
tione Mentale NajAex, 1891
A full catalogue of the books in the Edmund Gnrney Library was printed
the end of Vol. V. of the Proceedings. Supplementary Catalogues were
inted at the end of Vols. VI. and VII. Separate copies of thcuc catalogues
still on hand, and may be obtained from the Secretarg.
List of Members and Associates. 615
LIST OF MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
(December, 1892.)
PRESIDENT.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, Cambridge.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 4, Carlton-gardens, S.W.
Professor W. F. Barrett, Royal College of Science, Dublin.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
John R. Hollond, Esq., 1, Upper Berkeley-street, Portman-square, W.
Richard H. Hutton, Esq., Crossdeep Lodge, Twickenham.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A
Hon. Roden Noel, St. Aubyns, West Brighton.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripon, The Palace, Ripon.
COUNCIL
G. W. Balfour, M.P.
Thomas Barkworth.
Professor W. F. Barrett.
G. P. Bidder, Q.C.
The Earl of Crawford and
Balcarres, K.T., F.R.S.
William Crookes, F.R.S.
Lieut.-Col. J. Hartley.
Walter Leaf, Litt.D.
Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S.
ProfessorMacalister.M.D.,F.R.S.
A. T. Myers, M.D.
FOR 1892.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
Frank Podmore.
ProfessorW. Ramsay,Ph.D., F.R. S.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
C Lockhart Robertson, M.D.
Sydney C. Scott.
H. Arthur Smith.
H. Babington Smith.
R. Pearsall Smith.
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
J. Venn, D.Sc, F.R.S.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 1, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Frederic W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Frank Podmore, 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, London, N.W.
SECRETARY FOR FRANCE.
L6on Marillier, 7, Rue Michelet, Paris.
SECRETARY FOR THE UNITED STATES.
Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
ASSISTANT-SECRETARY.
Edward T. Bennett, 19, Buckingham-street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
tilG List of Members and Associates.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
William Crookes, F.R.S., 7, Kensington Park-gardens, London, W.
The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, M.P., Hawarden Castle,
Chester.
Sib Frederick Leighton, Bart., P.R.A., 2, Holland Park-road, W.
John Ruskin, LL.D., D.C.L., Brantwood, Coniston, Lancashire.
Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.G.S., Corfe View, Parkstone, Dorset.
.G. F. Watts, R.A., Little Holland House, London, W.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, G, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Dr. Alfred Baokman, Kalmar, Sweden.
Professor H. Bkaunis, Villa Louise, Saint Jean, pres Villefranche,
Alpes Maritimes, France.
Professor Bernheim, Hopital Civil, Nancy.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Max Dessoir, 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, W.
Dr. Fere, 37, Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
Professor Dr. Heinrich Hertz, The University, Bonn.
Professor Pierre Janet, Bourg-la-Reine, France.
Professor Kovalevsky, The University, Kharkof, Russia.
Dr. A. A. Liebeault, Nancy, France.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
Hans Natgb, Berlin-Tempelhof, Berlin.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,U.S.A.
Dr. F. Freiherr Goeler von Ravensburg, i, Nettelbeckstrasse,
Berlin, W.
Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15, Rue de FUniversitiS, Paris.
Dr. FkkiHkrR von Schrenck-Notzing, 29, Herzog-Wilhelmstrasse,
Munich.
H. Taine, Menthon St. Bernard, Haute Savoie, France.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
List of Member's and Associates.
MEMBERS.
Allan, T. S., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S. (Ed.), Salford House, Tunbridge, Kent,
Ashburton, The Lady, Kent House, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Atkinson, Miss E. A., 44, Percy-gardens, Tynemouth.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 47, Russell-road, West Kensington, \V.
Balfour, The Right Hon. A. J., M.P., F.R.S., 4, Carlton-gardens, S.W.
Balfour, G. W., M.P., 67, Addison-road, London, W.
Balfour, Miss, 4, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Banister, Major Fitzgerald M.,R.A., JuniorArmy and Navy Club,W.
Barber, Mrs. J. W., Ferndene, Abbeydale, near Sheffield.
BArkWOrTn, Thomas, J.P., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
Barrett, Professor W. F., F.R.S.E., Kingstown, Co. Dublin.
Barrett, Ashley William, M.B. (Loud.), 42, Finsbury-square, E.C.
Barrington, Hon. Eric, 62, Cadogan-place, London, S.W.
Battersea, Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring.
Bective, The Countess of, Underley Hall, Kirkby Lonsdale.
Bennett, Edward T., Devonshire House, Richmond, near London.
Benson, Mrs., Lambeth Palace, London, S.E.
Berens, Rev. Randolph, M.A., 14, Prince's-gardens, London, S.W.
Beveridge, Erskine, St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Bibby, Charles Hesketh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bidder, G. P., Q.C., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bidder, Mrs. G. P., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Biddulph, The Lady Elizabeth P., 19, Ennismore-gardens, S.W.
Blakelock, Rev. R., M.A, Horbury Bridge Vicarage, Wakefield.
Blaquiere, Mrs. Charles de, 1, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Bramwell, John Milne, M.B., 2, Henrietta-street, Cavendish-square, W.
Brooke, Lady, Ranice of Sarawak, 12, Hans-place, London, S.W.
Bryce, J. P., J.P., Bystock, near Exmouth, Devon.
Bushell, Rev. W. D., M.A., Harrow on-the-Hill.
Bote, The Marquis of, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Castle, Robert, 9, Canterbury-road, Oxford.
Cave, Charles J. P., 13, Lowndes-square, London, S.W.
Clive, The Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfiekl, Salop.
Close, Rev. Maxwell H., M.A., University Club, Dublin.
Coffin, Walter H., F.L.S., 94, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Coles, Donald A., M.D., Sydney House, Sutton Court-road, Chiswick,W.
Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2, Cavendish-
square, London, W.
Crawford, F. Marion, Villa Crawford, Sunt' Agnello di Sorrento, Italy
Crawshay, Robert, 16, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Crommelin, Miss Constance de la C, 36, Sussex-square, Brighton.
018 List of Members and Associates.
D'Abbadie, Antoine, 120, Rue de Bac, Paris.
Dakin, Rev. Edward, Selsley, Stroud, Gloucestershire.
Dakyns, Henry Graham, M.A., Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Damania, Surgeon-Major P. J., National Liberal Club, London, S.W.
Dawkin, William, 61, Clifton-street, Larkhall-lane, S.W.
De Grey, Thb Countess, 1, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, N.B.
Dixon, Edward T., 12, Barkstone Mansions, South Kensington, S.W.
Dodgson, Rev. Charles Lutwidge, M.A., Christ Church, Oxford.
Downing, Charles, Athelston, High-road, Streatham, London, S.W.
Dugdale, Mrs. Stratford, Merevale Hall, Atherstone.
Elder, Frederick, 21, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Elder, Mrs., Campden House, Kensington, London, W.
Elworthy, Arthur K., Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset.
Elwyn, Rev. Canon, M.A., Master's Lodge, Charterhouse, London, E.C.
Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Ewing, Lieut.-Colonel A., The Lawn, Taunton.
Falcke, Dudley C, 5, Pump-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Florencs, Ernest B., 33, Redcliffe-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Ford, Mr?. Gerard, 58, Marine Parade, Brighton.
Forster, Anthony, 6, Anglesea-terrace, Gensing-gardens, St. Leonards.
Foster, Gerald H, 5, Cleveland-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
Fountain, Alfred, The Elms, Cornwall-road, Uxbridge.
Fry, Lewis George, 13, Thurlow-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Gardner, Right Hon. Herbert, M.P., 46, Down-street, Piccadilly, W.
Gary, Baron Raymond de, 17, Rue d'Anjou St. Honore, Paris.
Gaussen, Mrs. L. D., Marton, Basechurch, Salop.
GooDnArT, Rev. Charles A., M.A., St. Barnabas Vicarage, Sheffield.
Goodman, Louis Henry, Bertram House, 170, Earl's Court^road, S.W.
Goodrich-Freer, Miss, 6, Westbourne Grove-terrace, London, W.
Graham, William W., 4, Elm-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Greener, W. O., 7, Park Hill-road, Harborne, Birmingham.
Guest, A. H., L.R.C.P.E., Westbourne, Whalley-range, Manchester.
Gurney, Rev. Alfred. M.A., St. Barnabas Parsonage, Pimlico, S.W.
Gurnev, Henry G., 3, Regent-street, London, W.
Gurney, Mrs. Russell, 3, Orme-square, London, W.
Haig, Mrs. C. E., Orchardwood, Ascot Heath, Berks.
Hayward, M. Cecil, Caius College, Cambridge.
Helme, Captain Burchall, J. P., Bishopstrow House, Warminster.
Henley, Hon. Ernest, Watford Court, Rugby.
Henry-Anderson, Mrs. I., Druids' Mere, Blairgowrie, N.B.
Hewetson, H. Bendelack, F.L.S., M.R.C.S., 11, Hanover-square, Leeds.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogg, Henry R., M.A., Melbourne Club, Melbourne, Australia.
List of Members and Associates. 619
Holland, Hon. Lionel R., B.A., 75, Eaton-square, S.W.
Hollond, John R., M.A., 1, Upper Berkeley-street, Portman-square, W.
Holt, H. Sherwin, Wave Cottage, Chelmsford.
Hood, H. J., M.A., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Howard, Robert Henry, Bishop Hatfield's Hall, Durham.
Hughes, Major H. M., F.R.G.S., Rose Bank, Marden Park, Caterham
Valley, Surrey.
Hutchinson, Frederick W. H, B.A., 1, Emmanuel-road, Cambridge.
Hutchison, Rev. R. P., M.A., Martyr Worthy Rectory, Winchester.
Jameson, F., 6, Westbourne Park-villas, London, W.
Jameson, Miss, Glencormac, Bray, Ireland.
Jebb, J. Gladwyn, 11, Chester-place, Hyde Park-square, London, W.
Jeune, Lady, 37, Wimpole-street, London, W.
Joyce, S., Junr., 158, Princess-road, Alexandra Park, Manchester.
Kay, H. A., 71, Maida-vale, London, W.
Kelso, Commander, R.N., Horkesby Park, Colchester.
Kerr, George, M.A, M.B., 6, St. Colme-street, Edinburgh.
Knowles, Ernest, Inglehurst Park-road, Bolton-le-Moors.
Lafone, Alfred W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Lamplugh, Rev. David, M.A., Yalding Vicarage, Maidstone.
Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., Old Change, London, E.C.
Leycester, Mrs., 6, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Leyson, Miss Kate, Penscynnor, Neath, South Wales.
Lincoln, The Very Rev. TnE Dean of, The Deanery, Lincoln.
Lodge, Professor O. J., D.Sc, F.R.S., 2, Grove-park, Liverpool.
MacColl,Rev.Canon Malcolm.M.A.,Devonshire Club, St.James's,S.W.
Mackay, Mrs., 7, Buckingham-gate, London, S.W.
Mackenzie, J. Kenneth D., Broadway Chambers, Westminster, S.W.
Manders, H., F.R.C.S., Agincourt House, Yorktown, Farnborough.
Marshall, John William, M.A., The Holt, Godalming.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Massey, Charles C, 124, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Matthews,Frank H., M.A., Ivy Villa, Beulah Hill,Upper Norwood, S.E.
McAlpine, Mrs., Garscadden, Bearsden, near Glasgow.
Micklethwait, Richard K., Ardsley House, Barnsley.
Milford, The Lady, 16, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Money, Colonel Gerard Noel, C.B.,F.R.G.S.
Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett, Walsingham House, Piccadilly, W.
Mount-Temple, The Lady, Shelley House, Chelsea, S.W.
Mulholland, Mrs., Woodrising Hall, Shipdham, Norfolk.
Murray-Aynsley, Mrs., Great Brampton, near Hereford.
Myers, A. T., M.D., 2, Manchester-square, London, W.
Myers, Frederic W. H., M.A., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Newmann, Oscar P., 84, Newman-street, London, W.
G20 List of Members and Associate?.
Nicoll, Augustus, M.B., 99, Elm Park-gardens, South Kensington, S.W.
Parker, Edward W., Little Rock, Arkansas, U.S.A.
Penn, John, M.P., 22, Carlton House-terrace, London, S.W.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Islands.
Petbovo-Solovovo [Solovoy], Michael, 9, Mohovaia, St. Petersburg.
Pilcher, Giles T., United University Club, Pall Mall East, S.W.
Phipps, Miss, Knebworth House, Stevenage, Herts.
Podmore, Frank, M.A., 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, N.W.
Porter, Miss, 16, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Powys, Hon. Mrs. Fox, 29, Albion-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Pye, 'William A., 24, Daleham-gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Rayleigh, Clara Lady, 90, Onslow-gardens, London, S.W.
Ridley, Henry N., M.A., F.L.S., Botanic Gardens, Singapore.
Robertson, C. Lockhart, M.D., Guns Green, The Drive, Wimbledon
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Rev. E.H.,M.A.,Vicarage, Thames Ditton, Kingston-on-Thames.
Rogers, George F., B.A., 123, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
Ross, A. Galt, 7, Edinburgh-terrace, Victoria-road, London, W.
Rucker, Professor Arthur W., F.R.S., Errington, Clapham Pk., S.W.
Russell, The Earl, Amberley Cottage, Maidenhead.
Rylands, Thomas G.,F.L.S.,F.G.S.,Highnelds,Thelwall, nr.Warrington.
Sands, Mrs. Mahlon, 40, Portland-place, London, W.
Scott, Sydney C, Hatherleigh, 28, The Avenue, Gipsy Hill,London,S.E.
Selous, Edmund, Barton Mills, near Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Shove,Miss E.,K.Q.C.P.I.,M.B.,25,St.Mark's-cres., Regent'sPk, N.W.
Sidgwick, Professor Henry, Hill Side, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., Hill Side, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Arthur, M.A., G4, Woodstock-road, Oxford.
Sims, F. Manley, F.R.C.S., 12, Hertford-street, Mayfair, W.
Sisley, Richard, M.B., Park-row, Knightsbridge, London, W.
Smith, Henry Arthur, 1, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, NewYork, U.S.A.
Smith, R. Pearsall, 44, Grosvenor-road, London, S.W.
Solovioff, Wsevolod.
Soltykoff, Prince Alexis.
Stanhope, The Right Hon. E., M.P., 111, Eaton-square, London, W.
Stanley, Henry M., D.C.L., LL.D., 2, Richmond-terrace, S.W.
Stead, William T., Mowbray House, Norfolk-street, Strand, W.C.
Stearn, H. T., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Stephenson, Sir Augustus, K.C.B., Q.C., 46, Ennismore-gardens, S.W
Stock, St. George, M.A., 8, Museum-villas, Oxford.
Stogdon, John Cole, M.A., 18, Clement's Inn, London, W.C.
Sturgis, Julian, M.A., 2, Gloucester-place, Portman-square, London, W.
Swan, Joseph Wilson, Lauriston, Bromley, Kent.
List of Members and Associates. 02 1
Talbot, The Lady Edmund, 26, Curzon-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Tatteusall, Robert W., 31, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Taylor, Rev. Charles J., M.A., The Larches, Banstead, Surrey.
Taylor, Miss Edith, 9, Milner-square, London, W.
Taylor, Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M., Royal Military College, Cam-
berley, Surrey.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, near Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Thomas, Joseph William, F.I.C., F.C.S., Drumpellier, Gloucester.
Thomson, Professor J. J., M.A., F.R.S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Thorpe, Mrs. Mary, Lenton House, Lenton, Nottingham.
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 14, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Tweedale, Mrs., Milton Hall, Cambridgeshire.
Tweedie, George R., F.C.S., 54, Hawley-square, Margate.
Vacher, William H., 54, Addison Mansions, Kensington, S.W.
Webb, Godfrey, 13, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Welldon, Rev. J. E. O, M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Westlake, Ernest, F.G.S., 2, Ridgeway-road, Redhill.
Whitear, Rev. W., B.A., 107, Florence-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Willmott, Miss R., Warley-place, Great Warley, Essex.
Wilson, David H, M.A., Dunridge, West Hill, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Wisden, Lieut. Thomas Faulconer M., Broadwater, near Worthing.
Woodhouse, G. H., Heath Bank, Bolton.
Woodrdffe, Miss Adelaide, c/o National Provincial Bank of Eng
land, 88 Cromwell road, S.W.
Wyndham, Hon. Percy, 44, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 32a, Orchard-street, London, W.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
Carlile, W. A., 144, Albert-road, Aston, Birmingham.
Curtis, Miss Mary, Laugharne, St. Clears, South Wales.
Despard, Miss, 77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, London, W.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 13, Dumfries-place, Cardiff.
Grubb, Edward, M.A., Rye Croft, Fulford-road, Scarborough.
Hayes, Joseph W., 1, George's-street, Enniscorthy.
James, Captain, 10, Hereford-road, Bayswater, London, W.
Jenkins, E. Vacghan, Encrglyn, 31, St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
Keulemans, J. G., 13, York-terrace, Brewery-road, Southend.
Kirk, Joseph, 1, Ripon Villas, Upper Ripon-road, Plumstead, Kent.
Macdonald, Rev. J. A., Heswall, Cheshire.
Manoin, Louis, 130, Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
Nisbet, E. T., 1 3, The Crescent, Gateshead.
Robertson, Miss N., 1, Oakley-street, Chelsea, S.W.
Saxby, Mrs., Mount Elton, Clevedon.
Scudamore, Mrs., 3, Tollington-park, Holloway, London, N.
2 T
G22 List of Members and Associates.
Shield, Mrs., Bowers Gifforcl Rectory, Essex.
Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., Smithsonian Institution,Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Sugden, Rev. E. H., B.A., B.Sc, Bradford, Yorkshire.
Walwyn, Mrs., 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Wingfield, Mrs., Belvidere Place, Church-road, Wimbledon.
ASSOCIATES.
Adair, Mrs., Glenavon, Cookstow'n, Co. Tyrone.
Adams, Mrs., The Observatory, Cambridge.
Ainslie, Ainslie Douglas, 15, Lower Grosvenor-place, S.W.
Alcock, Richard, M.B., Burlington-crescent, Goole.
Alexander, S., M.A., Lincoln College, Oxford.
Allen, C. P. Egerton, M.R, B.A., Heywood Cottage, Tenby.
Allen, Frederic, Sidmouth-road, Newcastle, Staffordshire.
Allen, Henry J., 14, Ailesbury-road, Donnybrook, Co. Dublin.
Allen, Rev. W. O. B., M.A., 83, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Amery, W. C, 13, Corporation-street, Birmingham.
Anderson, James Arduthnot, 46, Warwick-gardens, Kensington, W.
Anderson, Miss Margery, 25, Lansdowne-cres., Kensington Park, W.
Argles, Miss Edith M., The Deanery, Peterborough.
Arkwright, Walter George, Adbury House, Newbury.
Arnott, T. Davidson, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
A8HCr0FT, Rev. Thomas, The Manse, West Leigh, near Manchester
Bacchus, Mrs., The Manor House, Lillington, near Leamington.
Badelier, Emile, Rangoon, British Burmah.
Baillie, Edmund J., F.L.S., Woodbine, Eaton-road, Chester.
Hall, Thomas Stanley, Spring Bank, Fulwood, near Preston.
Barmby, Rev. James, B.D., Pittington Vicarage, Durham.
Barrett, Rev. Canon, M.A., St. Margaret's Vicarage, Lincoln.
Bartholomew, Colonel, Bantry Lodge, Glengariff, Co. Cork.
Barkworth, Lieut. John R., R.E., R.A. and R.E. Mess, Malta.
Bates, Colonel C. E., 60, Gloucester-place, Portman-square, W.
Bates, Miss, c o Loudon and County Bank, Maidstone.
Bayfield, Rev. Matthew A., M.A., Christ's College, Brecon.
Bazley, Sir Thomas S., Bart., J.P., M.A., Hatherop Castle, Fairford,
Gloucestershire.
Beazley, Lieutenant-Colonel George G., 74, Redcliffe-square, S.W.
Beatty, Octavius, Killevey, Darleston-road, Wimbledon, Surrey.
Beer, Mrs., 7, Chesterfield-gardens, London, W.
Bell, Bainuridge R., The Club, Colombo, Ceylon.
Bull, Charles W., J.P., D.L., Yewhurst, East Grinstead, Sussex.
ISellasis, Major G. M., c/o H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Benson, R. Hugh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bergen, Axel von, Harewood Hill, Darlington.
List of Members and Associates. G23
Bergen, Dk. Carl von, 32, Karlavftgen, Stockholm.
Berkeley, Captain H. Fitzhardinge, R.N., Warwick Lodge, Rivers
court, Hammersmith, W.
Bernard, John, Captain, R.M.L.I., H.M.S. " Nelson," Portsmouth.
Bsrrey, Walter F. M., M.A.,Western Lodge,Clapham Common, S.W.
Bsvan, Rev. C. B., M.A., 30, St. Andrew's-road, Southsea.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131, Gloucester-road, London, S.W.
Bswley, MiS3 Mary M., Netherton House, Clapham Common, S.W.
Bickford-Smith, R.A.H., B.A., 19,Endymion-road, Brixton Rise, S.W.
Bicknell, Rev. Clarence, M.A., Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bicknell, Norman L., Foxgrove, Bsckenham, Kent.
Bidder, George P., Juvr., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bird, George, M.D., 49, Welbeck-street, London, W.
Birks, Rev. Edward B., M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Birrell, Mrs., Placilla, Down View-road, Worthing.
Blaikie, Miss J. L., 10, Stratford-place, London, W.
Blackwell, Elizabeth, M.D., Rock House, Hastings.
Bois, Herbert G., 4, Clarendon-place, Hyde Park-square, W.
Boldero, Lieut.-General G. N, 20, Westbourne-gardens, Folkestone.
Bolland, Mrs., 7, Cranbury-terrace, Southampton.
Bonus, Arthur R., c/o A. Sc:ott and Co., Rangoon, Burmah.
Bonus, J., Major-Gen., R.E., The Cedars, Strawberry Hill, nr. London.
Boorne, Herbert H., Sydenham House, Reading.
Boscq de Beaumont, G. du, Airel (Mauche), France.
Boucher, Mrs., c/o Miss Lutley, West-street, Wiveliscombe, Somerset.
Bouverie, Edward O. P., M.A., 93, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, W
Bovill, Mrs. Alfred, 9, St. Andrew's-place, Regent's Park, N.W.
Bowden-Smith, Mr3., Highclere Rectory, Newbury.
Bowlby, Arthur S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bowness, William Wilson, 26,Campden-grove, Kensington, London,W.
Boyd, C. W., 7, Abbotsford-crescent, St. Andrews, N.B.
Boyd, William Henry, Ballymacool, Letterkenny.
Biumston, Miss A. R., Witham-close, Winchester.
Bramston, Miss M., 41, Dingwall-road, Croydon.
Brandreth, Henry S., Fairholme, Weybridge.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brett, George, The College, Weston-super-Mare.
Brewster, Mrs. F., 21, Park-valley, Nottingham.
Briggs, Mrs., Rawdon Hall, near Leeds.
Brill, Alice B., M.D., New York City, U.S.A.
Britten, James, F.L.S., 18, West-square, Southwark, S.E.
Brown, Mrs., 21, South-street, Park-lane, W.
B,iown, Miss Johnson, c/o Miss Holland, 35, Duke-street, Southport.
2 r 2
G24 List of Members and Associates.
Browne, Edward G., M.A., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browning, Oscar, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Bkownlow, The Countess, Ashridge, Berkhamsted.
Bruhns, Theodore, Simferopol, Russia.
Brvce, Mijjs Kathleen, 15, Notting Hill square, Campden Hill, W.
Buckle, W. T., M.B. (Loud.), 5, Vicarage Villas, Willesden, N.W.
Buckler, W. H, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bullock, Mrs., Cedars Lodge, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bt;LMer, Mrs., Field House, Sleights, B.S.O., York.
Burt, Percival J., 16, Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Burton, Mrs., Longner Hall, Shrewsbury.
Burton, Mas., 1, Iddesleigh Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Butcher, Miss, 22, Collingham-place, London, S.W.
Butler, G. W., B.A.,F.G.S., Blenheim Lodge, Surbiton, Surrey.
Buttemur, Robert William, St. Mary's, Godalming.
Buxton, Lady, Shadwell Court, Thetford.
Caird, Mrs., 3, Lyndhurst-gardens, South Hampstead, London.
Caldecott, Rev. Alfred, M.A., 57, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
Callaway, Charles, D.Sc, M.A., Sandon, Wellington, Salop.
Campbell, James A., Barbreck, vid Lochgilphead, Argyll, N.B.
Campbell, Mrs. Xapier, 69, Ashley-gardens, London, S.W.
Cannon, Mrs., Hillcot, Sharpies, near Bolton.
Carleton, Hon. Mrs. Leir, Greywell Hall, Winchfield.
Caudee, Miss, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley and Co., Founders-court,
Lothbury, London, E.C.
Cave-Browne-Cave, Mrs. T., Burnage, Streatham Common, S.W.
Cazalet, Mrs., Grenehurst, Dorking.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
Chandler, Rev. H. C D., M.A., Waterbeach Vicarage, Cambridge.
Charlesworth, Miss A. M., Maitland House, Clapham Common, S.W.
Chase, Capt. W. St. L., V.C., F.R.A.S., F.R.G.S., 28th Bombay
Pioneers, Kirkee, Bombay.
Chattock, Arthur P., University College, Bristol.
Childers, Miss F. I., Villa Dalgorouky, Poggio Imperiale, Florence.
Clarke, Robert H., M.A., M.B., M.R.C.S., Clarence Lodge, Redhill.
Clavequin, Edward, Munster Lodge, Monkstown, Dublin.
Clayton, Charles E., Hillcote, Highcroft Villas, Brighton.
Clemens, S. L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Coates, Andrew, Pitcullen House, Perth, N.B.
Colchester, Rkv. H. B., M.A., 24, Davies-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Cole, Alfred C, M.A., 64, Portland-place, W.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collins, Sir Robert H., K.C.B., Broom Hill, Claremont, Esher.
Colthurst, Lady, 47, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, London, W.
List of Members and Associates. G25
Civile, Colonel Henry E., C.B., 24, Chapsl-st., Belgrave-square, W.
Cooney, Rev. Stewart E., M.A., Tessauran Rectory, Banagher, King's
Co., Ireland.
Cope, Rev. C. EL, M.A., 64, Rue d'Orleans, Brussels.
Cort van deb Linden, Professor P. W. A., Amsterdam, Holland.
Coces, Dr. ELLiOTr, 1,726, N. Street, N.W. Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Cox, Mrs., 9, Bessborough-street, South Belgravia, S.W.
Cowan, Mrs., Valleyfield, Penicuik, N.B.
Crawford, W. C, 1, Lockharton-gardens, Slateford, Midlothian, N.B.
Crespo, J. Charters, Rio Maior, Portugal.
Crews, Richard G., Glenholme, Mount Park, Ealing, W.
Crowe, W. Lradbam, 24, Cornwall road, Westbourne Park, W.
Crowther, W. Fearne, Wellington-terrace, Hailsham, Sussex.
Cruise, F. R., M.D., 93, Merrion-square, Dublin.
Cunningham, G.,D.M.D. (Harvard, U.S.A.), 2, King's-parade, Cambridge.
Cunningham, Rev. W., D.D., 2, St. Paul's-road, Cambridge.
Daintrey, Charles J., Petworth, Sussex.
Daniel, A. M., B.A., Temple Chambers, London, E.C.
Darwin, Mrs. Francis, Wychfield, Huntingdon-road, Cambridge.
Darley, Lady, Quambi, Woollohra, New South Wales.
Darell-Brown, Mrs., 1, Douro Villas, Cheltenham.
Davis, A. E., L.R.C.S. (Ed.), L.R.C.P.I., 20, Great George-sq., Liverpool.
Davis, Thomas Henry, 35, High-street, Lewisham, S.E.
Dickinson, Goldsworthy L., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Dickinson, Mrs., Woodlea, Bedford Hill, Balham.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., 80, Peel-street, Campden Hill, London, W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.A., M.B., 6, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Dixon, Hugh N., M.A., F.L.S., Wickham House, East Park Parade,
Northampton.
Dobbie, A. W., Gawler-place, Adelaide, South Australia.
Dobie, Stanley L.,Surgeon Lt.-Col.,Supt. Govt. LunaticAsylum,Madras.
Doudleday, Mrs. Frances G., c/o Drexel, Harris and Co., 37,
Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
Doveton, F. B., Glencroft House, Lyndhurst-road, Exeter.
Dowson, Mrs., L.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.S. L, 20, Westgate-terrace, Redcliffe-
square, London, S.W.
Dunn, Edmund A., 92, Regent-street, London, W.
Eagle, Frederick, Newport, near Barnstaple.
Eardley, Lady, 4, Lancaster-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Earle, Mrs. C. W., 5, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Edelsten, John A., 31, Bold-street, Warrington.
Egerton, Miss Mary L., Whitwell Hall, York.
Elliot, Mrs. Minto, 63, Wimpole-street, London, W.
Elliott, Sir Charles Alfred, K.C.S.I., LL.B., Calcutta.
62G List of Members aml Associates.
Elliott, Rbv. W. A., Matebele Land, via Mafeking, British Bechuana
Larul, South Africa.
Ellis, John Edwakd, M.P., 40, Pont-street, London, S.W.
Ellison, Rev. John H., M.A., 4, Warwick-square, London, S.W.
Elton, Oliver, M.A., 58, Flanders-road, Bedford Park, W.
Elvey, Miss Mary M., Finborough-road,West Brompton, London, S.W.
Ermacoka, Dr., G.B , Padua, Italy.
Evans, Kirkham, Adelaide, South Australia.
Evans, Mrs., Llanmaes House, near Cowbridge, South Wales.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Technical Institute, Teramo, Italy.
Fauncombe, George Richard, B.A., 40, Belgrave-street, Birmingham.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, Newman House, Kennington-road, S.E.
Felton, Alfred, Melbourne, Australia.
Fielding, Mrs. J. M., 25, Cardigan-road, Richmond, near London.
Finch, Heneage Wynne, Junr., B.A., The Manor House, Stokesley.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
FitzGerald.Desmond G.,M.S.T.E.,46, Loughborough-rd., Brixton, S.W.
Fletcher, Rev. W. Roby, M.A., Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Adelaide, South Australia.
Flynt, William Garnett, 7, Walmer-road, Birkdale Park, Southpoit.
Fort, Charles Leyland, B.A., Aklerbury House, Salisbury.
Fox, St. George Lane, 66. Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Fraser, Col. A. T., R.E., Palamcotta, Madras Presidency.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor-gdns., S.W.
Fry, Oliver A., M.A., 141, Portsdown-road, Maida-vale, London, W.
Fry, R. E., B.A., 1, Palace Houses, Bayswater Hill, London, W.
Garbett, Edward H., Barcombe House, Hull.
Gardiner, Rev. Edward R., M.A., Fawley Vicarage, Wantage.
Gardner, The Lady Wtinifred, 48, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Gardner, Mrs. Ernest, c/o Miss Wilson, 33, Ladbroke-squarc, W.
Gaket-Charles, G.G.,Wuodleigh, Gough-road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Garry, Francis N., M.A., St. Mary's Vicarage, Reading.
Gessmann, Gustav., Junr., Zwcjlfers Gasthof, Altniansdorf, Vienna.
Gibotteau, Aime, M.D., Villa Bearnaise, Biarritz.
Gilcriest, W. F., A.I.C.E. (Ireland), Sligo.
Glover, John J. T., 124, Stephen's Green, W, Dublin.
Godfrey, Thomas H., M.B., The General Dispensary, Jersey.
Godfrey, Mrs., c/o Col.C.W. Godfrey, Bombay StaffCorps, Poona, India.
Goodier, Miss B. M., Fulshaw Bank, Wilmslow, Cheshire.
Goodman, Roger N., B.A., B.Sc, Brookfield, Cambridge.
Goring, Lady, Strettington, Chichester.
Govkk, John M., LL.D., 1, Garden-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Graham, Henry R., 8, Marble Arch, London, W.
Graham, J. VV., B.A., Meadowside, Heald-place, Rusholme, Manchester.
List of Members and Associates. 627
Grantham, F. W., 100, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Gray, Rev. A., M.A., 21, Shakespeare-road, Bedford.
Green, C. T., M R.C.S., L.R.C.P. (Lond.), 33, Grange-mt., Birkenhead.
Green, Miss Marian, The High School, Spring Mount, Blackburn.
Greig, Rev. David, M.A., Cottenham Rectory, Cambridge.
Grier, Captain George R., Bagshot Lodge, Athlone.
Griffith, Miss E. C, 37, York-street, Portman-square, London, W.
Griffith, Mrs. Robert W., The Old House, Llandaif.
Grignon, Rev. William S., M.A., Essenden, Hatfield, Herts.
Groom, Ernest, Dothill Park, Wellington, Salop.
Grcbbe, Hubert H., National Liberal Club, London, S.W.
Gudgeon, James, Stowmarket.
Guinness, Miss Henrietta,
Gunton, Rev. Charles F., M.A., Farlam Vicarage, Milton, Carlisle.
Gunton, Rev. F., M.A., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Gurney.Rev. F., M.A., St. John's Collage, BoveyTracey, Newton Abbott.
Hackett, James F, B.A., 71, King William-street, Adelaide, Australia.
Hall, Charles S., Cambridge House, Westgate Without, Canterbury.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 2, Edinburgh-terrace, Kensington, W.
Hansford, Charles, 3, Alexandra-terrace, Dorchester.
Hargrave, Joseph G., The Grange, Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Manchester.
Hargreaves, Miss, 69, Alexandra-road, Southport.
Haupur, Rev. George, B.A., Clifton Vicarage, Newark.
Harris, J. C, Bruce Herald Office, Union St., Milton, Otago, N.Z.
Hartley, Lieut.-Colonel J., LL.D., D.L., The Old Downs, Hartley,
near Fawkham, vid Dartford.
Hartshorn, Miss C, 5, Philbeach Gardens, S.W.
Hastie, Miss, 11, Ashburn-place, Cromwell-road, S.W.
Hay, The Hon. Mrs. Alistair, 8, Upper Belgrave-street, London, S.W.
Hayes, Frederick W., 1 2, Westcroft-square, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Heaton, Charles, M.R.C.S., Watford, Herts.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, 55, Sutherland-avenue, Maida-vale, W.
Henniker-Major, The Hon. Mary, 4, Berkeley-street, Piccadilly, W.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1, Argyll Villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert, Hon. Auberon, M.A., Burley, Ringwood, Hants.
Herringham, Mrs., 22, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Hibbs, Reginald R., 13, St. Lawrence-road, North Kensington, W.
Higgin, F. C, Killiney Castle, Killiney, Co. Dublin.
Hildyard, F.W., St. Nicholas Club, 81a, QueenVictoria-st., London, E.C.
Hill, Miss E. D., Instowe, Cheltenham.
Hill, Henry, The Park, Nottingham.
Hill, W. Scott, 47, Manor-place, Edinburgh.
Hill-Tout, Charles, Trinity College, Vancouver, B.C.
Hills, Mrs., Corby Castle, Carlisle.
G28 List of Members and Associates.
Hodding, Miss, Selwood House, Barnard's Cross, Salisbury.
Hogg, Miss A. M. M., Berry Head House, Brixham.
Hole, Rev. Donald, A.K.C., The Vicarage, Aylesford, Kent.
Holland, Miss, Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, London, W.
Holstein, Madame Alexandra de, 29, Avenue de Wagraru, Paris.
Hook, Rev. Cecil, M.A., Hook Memorial Vicarage, Leeds.
Hooper, Gordon, L.D.S.R.C.S., 21, New Cavendish-st., Harley-st.,\V.
I Iopkinson,Professor A., M.A., B.C.L., The Lodge,32,Herne Hill, S.E.
Horne, Alderson, 10, Norfolk-street, London, W.
Howe, E. R. J. Gambier, 7, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Howorth, Henry H, M.P., Derby House, Eccles, near Manchester.
Hunbe-SchLkiDkn, Dr. J. U., Steglitz, near Berlin.
Huddleston, Mrs., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
Hi'ghes-Hughes, Mrs., 2">, Seymour-street, Portman-square, W.
HuMk-RoThery, J. H., B.Sc. (Lond.), Trinity College, Cambridge.
Humfrey, Miss L. R., 8, Hyde Park Mansions, London, W.
Humphreys, Edward H. P., Denmark Hill, London, S.E.
Hutchins, D. E., Conservator of Forests, Cape Town,
Infield, H. I., 130, North-street, Brighton.
Inglis, Rev. D., Douglas, Isle of Man.
Innes, Lieut.-Colonel P. R., 11 Cheniston-gardens, London, W.
Irving, Lewis A., Surgeon-Major, Govt. House, Ganesh Khind, Bombay.
Jackson, William H., M.A., F.L.S., Pen Wartha, Weston-super-Mare.
•Jackson, Miss E. R., Grammar School for Girls, Thetford.
Jkaffreson, Rev.H. H.,M.A., 115, Clifton Hill, St.John's Wood, N.W.
Jebb, Rev. H. Gladwyn, M.A., Firbeck Hall, Rotherham.
Jkbb, Mrs., Springfield, Newnham, Cambridge.
Jebb, Miss S. G., Myn-yr-Afon, Ruabon.
Jennings, Mrs., 16, Lower Sloane-street S.W.
Johnson, William Ernest, M.A., Llandaff House, Cambridge.
Johnston, Miss M. F., 16, Gunterstone-road, West Kensington, W.
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Kane, J. G. Auriol, Sloperton Lodge, Kingstown, Co. Dublin.
Keatinge, Mrs. R. H., Lodgelands, Balcombe, Sussex.
Keene, Rev. James B., M.A., The Rectory, Navan, Co. Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, M.A., 2, Lloyd-place, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Kenmare, The Countess of, Killarney House, Killarney.
Ker, C. B., M.D., Hadley House, Cheltenham.
Kimber, Mrs., 3, Roland-gardens, South Kensington, London, S.W.
Kingsbury, George C, M.D., 3, Brighton-parade, Blackpool.
Kingston, H. D. R., M.B., Stormont Lodge, Willesden, N.W.
Knox, Nathaniel A., Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Australia.
Konstamm, Edwin M.
.List of Members and Associates. G20
Lach-Szyrma, Rev. W.S., M.A., F.R.H.S., Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford.
Laing, R.M., M.A., B.Sc, Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lancaster, Ernest Le C, M.B., I, Northampton Villas, Swansea.
La Touche, Mrs., Harristown, Brannoxtown, Co. Kildare, Ireland.
Leaf, Arthur H., Old Change, London, E.C.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
Leete, Miss, 2, Earl's Court-gardens, London, S.W.
Leete, Miss L., 2, Earl's Court-gardens, London, S.W.
Leigh, W, Austen, M.A., 2, Norfolk-crescent, Hyde Park, London,W.
Leighton, Miss, 19, Wilton-place, London, S.W.
Lewis, C. W. Mansel, Stradey Castle, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Leymarie, P. G., 5, Rue des Petits Champs, Paris.
Librarian of the Public Library, Adelaide, South Australia.
Librarian of the Public Library', Melbourne, Australia.
Limond, Miss Catherine, 15, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Lindsay, Miss Beatrice, Bohemia, Port St. Mary, Isle of Man.
Lindsay, Robert, L.R.C.S., M.B., 59, Caversham-road, London, N.W.
Lloyd, Francis, Grenadier Guards, 43, Rutland-gate, London, S.W.
Lodge, Robert, Great Gearies, Ilford.
Loncstaff, G. B., M.A., M.B. (Oxon.), Highlands, Putney Heath, S.W.
Lucas, Mrs. E. A., Drayton Lodge, Eastbourne.
Lyttelton, Sybella, Lady, 9, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Macalister, Professor, M.D., F.R.S., Cambridge.
Macky, Dr., 4, Curzon-street, Mayfair. W.
MacNaughton, Rev. Samuel, M.A., Rose Bank, Addison-road, Preston.
Maitland, Edward, B.A., 1, Studio-buildings, Thurloe-square, S.W.
Major, Albert, 77, Clapham-road, London, N.W.
Malden, William E. P., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Malmesbury, Susan Countess of, 25, Sloane-gardens, S.W.
Mangin, Marcet, 130, Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 5, South Bank-terrace, Surbiton.
Marjoribanks, Lady, Tillmouth Park, Cornhill-on-Tweed, Northumber
land.
Marshall, Arthur, 13, Belsize-avenue, London, N.W.
Marshall, Thomas, Leeds Library, Commercial-street, Leeds.
Marshall, Henry William, Quorn, South Australia.
Marshall, William Cecil, M.A., 28, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Marson, Gervase, 3, Park-road, Southport.
Martin, Mrs. E. G., 42, Rue Gambetta, Honfleur (Calvados), France.
Martin, W. R., 65, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Mason, Miss M. H., Morton Hall, Retford, Notts.
Mathews, G.B.,B.A.,9, Menai View-terrace,Upper Bangor,NorthWales.
McKerlie, Miss Helen G., Monkstown, Co. Dublin.
McLaren, Mrs. C, 45, Harrington-gardens, London, S.W.
630 List of Members and Associates.
McNeile, Mrs., Admiralty House, Lewes.
Merrilees, J. F., M.D., Auburn, Victoria.
Miller, Robert, 6, Chester-street, Edinburgh.
Miller, Mrs. W. Pitt, Merlewood, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Milman, Mrs. W. H., 17, Southwell-gardens, London, S.W.
Minot, Dr. C. Sedgwick, 25, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, U.S.A.
Mitchell, Mrs. C. W., 195, Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Molesworth, Sir Guilford L, K.C.I.E., Simla, India.
Money, Charles L, Northbrook Cottage, Petersfield.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes,Co. Limerick.
Montgomery, Mrs., 9, Hartley-road, Exmouth.
Moore, Major-General Montgomery, Gipsy Lodge, Norwood, S.E.
Mordan, Miss C. E., 15, Queen-square, W.C.
Morgan, Rev. Edward, B.A., Penmark Vicarage, Cowbridge.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 3, Douglas-crescent, Edinburgh.
Morison, Theodore, M.A., Aligarh, N.W.P., India.
Moul, Mrs., 3, Prince's Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Moule, John, Codicote, Welwyn, Herts.
Moulton, Mrs. F. A., G, Rue Daubigny, Place Malesherbes, Paris.
Moynihan, B. G. A., M.B. (Lond.), The General Infirmary, Leeds.
Munro, Henry Acland, B.A., 17, Vincent-square, S.W.
Murray, Colonel Hugh H., R.A., 28, Gower-street, London, W.C.
Murray, Mrs. G. A, 10, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Murray, Sydney J., 70, Cecile Park, Crouch Hill, London.
Murray, R. M., M.A., M.B., M.R.C.P.(Edin.), 10, Hope-st., Eduiburgh.
Murray, T. Douglas, 33, Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Muse, Mrs. Eva S., Santa Fe, New Mexico, U.S.A.
Musk, Miss Agnes, Market-place, Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Myers, Mrs., Brandon House, Cheltenham.
Myers, Mrs. F. W. H, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Mylne, Mrs., 122, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Nathan, S. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Neate, Percy John, F.G.S., M.M.E., Medway Iron Works, Rochester.
Nelson, Rev. George, LL.D., The Rectory, Southwick, Brighton.
Nevill, The Lady Dorothy, 45, Charles-street, London, W.
Neville, Francis Henry, M.A., Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
Newbold, Miss A., 9, Claro-terrace, Richmond-road, S. W.
Newsom, John, The American Trading Company, Yokohama, Japan.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, 781, Madison avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Nicholl, Iltyd B., The Ham, Cowbridge, South Wales.
Nicholls, Rev. T. B., M.A., St. Oswald's College, Tynemouth.
Nichols, Miss Irene, L-iwford Hall, Manningtree.
Nicholson, Sir Charles, Bart., D.C.L., LL.D., M.D., The Grangs,
Totteridge, Herts.
List of Members and Associates. 631
Nicolson, Sir A., K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Embassy, Constantinople.
Noakes, D. W., 23, Nelson-street, Greenwich, S.E.
Noel, Hon. Roden, St. Aubyns, West Brighton.
Noreis, William Alfred, Holmwood Lodge, Laton-road, Hastings.
Nutter, Mrs., Fairseat, Wrotham, Kent.
Oakeley, Miss H. D., 97, Warwick-road, Earl's Court, S.W.
Ogilvie, G. M., 10, Selborne-road, Brighton.
Oman, Mrs., St. Philip's Lodge, Painswick-road, Cheltenham.
Oman, Charles W. C, M.A., All Souls' College, Oxford.
O'Neill, Gregory L.,M.B.,140,Elizabeth-st.,Sydney,NewSouth Wales.
Opie, Edward A. D., J.P., Pirie-street, Adelaide.
Osborne, James, Ph.C, Hersham, near Walton-on-Thames.
Pagan, Miss O, Richmond Cottage, Uley, near Dursley, Gloucestershire.
Paget, Lady, The Embassy, Vienna. .
Paice, William, M.A, 1, Portman Mansions, Baker-street, W.
Palmer, Lieut. H.R., R.A., The Grand Depot Barracks, Woolwich.
Panton, D. Morrieson, Melrose, Porus P.O., Jamaica, W.I.
Parry, Rev. William Edwards, B.A., 1, Bell-terrace, Clewer,Windsor.
Passingham, Mrs., 11, Morton-crescent, Exmouth.
Peake, C. W., B.A., c/o Mr. Wood, High-street, Newport, Salop.
Pennington, Mrs., c/o William Watson & Co., 28, Apollo-st., Bombay.
Perry, Edwin C, M.A., The College, Guy's Hospital, London, S.E.
Pethybridge, Walter, 29, Methley-street, Kennington Cross, S.E.
Plenderleith, William, 60, Stroud Green-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Pickering, James R., A.I.E.E., 1 26, Holmesdale-rd.,South Norwood,S.E.
Plummer, J. W., Cockermouth.
Pollock, Miss, 50, Weymouth-street, London, W.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs., 2, Wilton-terrace, Belgrave-square, S.W.
Ponsonby, Miss, Glensouthwell, Rathfarnham, Co. Dublin.
Pope, George H., M.A., B.C.L., Merchants' Hall, Bristol.
Porter, Mrs., The Hawthorns, West Cliffroad, Bournemouth.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, 2, Abbey-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
Postgate, Professor J. P., Litt.D., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Powell, George Thompson, Rotherwood, Sydenham Hill, S.E.
Powles, Lewis Charles, M.A., 9, Queen's Gate-place, London, S.W.
Praed, Mrs. Campbell, 16, Talbot-square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Preble, W. P., Junr., 237, Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Pribitkof, V., 23, Troitzky Pereoulok, St. Petersburg.
Prickett, Miss L. M., Ross Cottage, Fortune Gate-road, Harlesden.
Prothebo, Mrs., 63, Trumpington-street, Cambridge.
Pryce, R. A. Vaughan, New College, Hampstead, N.W.
Pym, Mrs. Angela, Bankside, Lunham-road, Upper Norwood, S.E,
Raalte, Charles van, Aldenham Abbey, Watford.
Radnor, The Countess of, 8, Ennismore-gardens, London, S.W.
<532 List of Members and Associates.
Raleigh, Walter A., M.A., 27, Ladbroke-road, London, W.
Ramsay, Professor William, Ph.D., F.R.S., 12, Arundel-gardens, W.
Ramsay, Lady, The Old House, Wimbledon, S.W.
Raper, R. W., M.A., Trinity College, Oxford.
Raupert, Rev. H. G., 139, Walton-street, Oxford.
Rawson, Henry G., 68, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Reade, Herbert V., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Reichel, Principal H. R., M.A., University College, Bangor.
Reynolds, Colonel H. C, Thorncliffe, Cheltenham.
Reynolds, Mrs., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
Richardson, Frederic William, F.C.S., 2, Farcliffe-place, Bradford.
Richardson, Robert E., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Riddiford, Mrs. W. H., Brookfield, Hucclecote, near Gloucester.
Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham-gardens, London, N.W.
Rigg, Thomas S. J., B.A., General Post Office, Sydney.
Ritchie, Miss, 131, Clapham-road, London, S.W.
Roberts, William Johnson, 146, Pembroke-road, Dublin.
Roberts, Rev.W.W., Brook Dene, 14, Strawberry Hill-road, Twickenham
Robertson, George M., M.B , Royal Asylum, Morningside, Edinburgh.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Scale Hall, Ashby-de-la-Zouch.
Robin, Percy A., B.A., Goorge-street, Parkside, Adelaide, Australia.
Robinson, Edward, 4, Castelnau-gardens, Barnes, S.W.
Robinson, Dr. William Newman, Kadina, South Australia.
Roger, W. Wallace, 31, Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
Rossi-Pagnoni, Professor G.F., 4, Via Sabbatini, Pesaro, Italy.
Roxburgh, R., M.B., F.R.C.S E., 1, Victoria-bdgs.,Weston-super-Mare.
Russell, John, B.A., 16, Somerfield-road, Finsbury Park, London, N.
Russell, Mrs. Rosetta, Golden Mead, Chislehurst.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Haywards Heath.
Sams, Rev. George F., M.A., Eaibsrton Rectory, Newport Pagnell.
Saunders, Latimer Henry, Trevone House, Padstow.
Saunders, Thomas Bailey, M.A., 13, Hyde Park Gate, S.W.
Scholefield, Rev. C. C, M.A., 32, Lowndes-street, S.W.
Schram, Miss Lilian M.E., 178, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Schreiber, Major, 27, Fopstone-road, Earl's Court, S.W.
•Schuster, Miss, Cannizaro, Wimbledon, S.W.
.Seilern, Count Charles, 23, Wolmersley-road, Stroud Green, N.
Sellin, Professor C. W., 5. Wrangelstrasse, Hoheluft, Hamburg.
Seymour, Captain Edward H., R.N., 9, Ovington-square, S.W.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, 21, Nottingham-place, London, W.
Shaen, Rev. Richard, M. A., West Cottage, Royston, Herts.
Shand, Alexander F., 1, Edwardes-place, Kensington, W.
Sheavyn, Robert F., Long-street, Atherstone.
Sheppard, W. F., M.A., 2, Temple-gardens, E.C.
List of Members and Associate?. CSS
Shuttlewobth, John, Kenmare Bridge, by New Galloway, Kirkcud
brightshire, N.B.
Sidebotham, Edward J., Earlsdene, Bowden, Cheshire.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 29, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Simpson, Reginald Wynne, B.A., 14, Cornwall-gardens, S.W.
Skene, Miss F. M. F., 13, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Sladen, Douglas B. W.
Sloman, Rev. Arthur, M.A., The School House, Birkenhead.
Sloman, Samuel George, Junr., 39, West-street, Farnham.
Smart, J. Naish, Sydney House, Buruham.
Smith, Rev. Canon H. B , M.A., 32, Royal York-ter., Clifton, Bristol.
Smith, G. Albert, St. Ann's Well, Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
Smith, H. Babington, B.A., Riverbank, Putney, London, S.W.
Smith, John George, Junr., Hill House, Surbiton.
Smith, R. Morris, 3,715, Chestnut-street, W. Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Smith, Rev. Canon R. Travers, B.D., Vicarage, Clyde-road, Dublin.
Smith, Miss J. M., 52, Stanhope-gardens, Queen's Gate, S.W.
Smith, Mrs. Richard, 174, Cromwell-road, London, S.W.
Smith, Wallace A., 34, Devonshire-street, Portland-place, London, W.
Snaith, James F., Ancaster House, 48, Granada-road, Southsea, Hants.
Snape, Mrs., Markland Hill, Heaton, Bolton.
Snow, Chester A., 712, Eighth-street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Spencer, Miss Georgiana M-, 25, York-street, Portman-square, W.
Sperling, Arthur, J.P., Lattenbury Hill, St. Ives, Hunts.
Spinks, Judge, Vernon, British Columbia.
St. George, Mrs., 2, Jervis-place, Clonmel, Ireland.
Stackhouse, Mrs. M. F., Stackhouse, Settle.
Stanway, Miss Emily, 17, Park-street, Taunton.
Stapley, Alfred M., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Stepney, Hon. Lady, 3, Chesham-street, London, S.W.
Stevenson, George, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., Hastings-st., Calcutta,
Stewart, Mrs. Charlotte A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stillman, W. J., 3, Challoner-street, West Kensington, W.
Stone, Miss Edith L., Shuto Hay, Walditch, Bridport.
Stout, George F., M.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Sturoes, Mrs.William, 32, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, London,W.
Swan, C. A., 10, Delamere-street, London, S.W.
Swanwick, Miss Anna, 23, Cumberland-terrace, London, N.W.
Symonds, John Addington, M.A., Davos-Platz, Switzerland.
Symons, Miss Jessie H., 91, Wigmore-street, London, W.
Tancred, Mrs. Clement, 2, Princes' Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Tanner, Ernest, 3, Windsor-terrace, Penarth.
Tattersall, James Granville, Hanover-square Club, London, W.
<J34 List of Members and Associates.
Tattersall, Wm., 90, High-street, Oxford.
Taunton, Mrs. R. H., Brook Vale, Witton, near Birmingham.
Taxis, The Princess, 10, Mohrengasse, Vienna.
Taylor, Rev. Arnold D., B.A., Churchstanton Rectory,Honiton, Devon
Thackeray, Mrs. W. G., Portland House, 32, Kidbrooke Park road
Blackheath, S.E.
Thompson, I. C, F.L.S., F.R.M.S., Woodstock, Waverley rd., Liverpool
Thorold, Edward S., Larkby, Exeter.
Todd, Mrs., Maclean, Clarence River, New South Wales.
Tooth, Rev. Arthur, M.A., Woodside, Croydon.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville Park, Lewisham, S.E.
Thurstan, Frederick, W., M.A., La Martiniere, Lucknow, India.
Townley, Miss F. M., 47, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Trench, J. Townsend, J.P., Kenmare, Ireland.
Trevor, Rev. Thomas Warren, M.A., Penmon Vicarage, Beaumaris.
Tuker, Miss Mildred A.R., 4, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, N.W.
Tyber, Mrs. W., Woodleigh, Prescot.
Underwood, Rev. Canon C. W., M.A., Histon Vicarage, Cambridge.
Vailati, Professor Giovanni, Crema, Italy.
Venman, Hezekiah, 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
Venn, J.,D.Sc, F. R.S., Summerleigh, Chine Crescent-rd., Bournemouth.
Verrall, Mrs, Selwyn-gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26, Gloucester-place, Brighton.
Vian-Williams, Rev. H., 3, Waterloo-place, North Shields.
Vicars, G. R., M.D., Bridge House, Revesby, Boston, Lincolnshire.
Villamarina, The Marchesa di, Palazza Reale, Quirinale, Rome.
Vincent, Maria Lady, Villa Flora, Cannes, France.
Vivian, H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Vores, Arthur, M.R.C.S., 8, Mansfield-street, Cavendish-square, W.
Warburton, Rev. W. T., M. A., The Vicarage, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Ward, The Hon. Miss, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
Wardrop, Mrs., 10, Lower Belgrave-street, Eaton-square, S.W.
Warrand, Mrs., Bught, Inverness, N.B.
Warter, M rs. Tatham, Longden Manor, Pontesford, Salop.
Wassell, H. A., F.R.A.S.,Addenbrook Villa,01d Swinford,Stourbridge.
Waterhouse,C.H.,M.D.,56, Karl Ludwig Strasse,Ober-Dobling,Vienna.
Watson, Mrs. W. C, 39, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Webber-Smith, Colonel James, 27, Shaftesbury-avenue, London, W.
Wedd, N., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Wells, Edmund P., C.E., 26, Cambridge-gardens, N. Kensington, W.
Wemyss, Miss A., Washwell House, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Whatkly, Mrs. Henry, 14, Campden House-road, Kensington, W.
Wherry, G. E., F.R.C.S., Corpus-buildings, Cambridge.
WnrenAW, Mrs. Bernhard, 27, Upper Bedford-place, W.C.
List of Members and Associates.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa MalGtano, Palermo, Sicily.
Whitehead, John, Esplanade, Guernsey.
Wigan, W. L., Larkfield, near Maidstone.
Wilde, Mrs. Oscar, 16, Tite-street, Chelsea, S.W.
Willan, Miss Florence M., 50, Weymouth-street, Portland-place, W.
Willett, Mrs., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 63, Queen Victoria-street, E.C.
Williams, Rev. Nelson G., M.A., East Meon, Petersfield, Hants.
Williams, Miss S., The Reservoir, Edgbaston, near Birmingham.
Wilson, Herbert W., The Woodlands, Athlone.
Windeyer,Thk Hon. W. C. Justice, Supreme Court, Sydney, Australia.
Wingfield, H. E., M.A., 42, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Wingfield, Mrs. Edward, 40, Albion-street, Hyde Park, W.
Witherby, Arthur George, B.A., 117a, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Withers, J. J.,B.A., 2, Museum Chambers, Bury-st., Bloomsbury, W.C.
Wittig, Gregor C, 2, Kornerstrasse, Leipzig.
Woeikow, Alexis, Moika 28, St. Petersburg.
Wood, Rev. Canon, M.A., Newent Rectory, Gloucestershire.
Wright, Mrs. Almroth E., Oakhurst, Netley, Hants.
Wright, Arthur J., M.A., Kensington Palace Mansions, London,W.
Wyld, George, M.D., Fieldhead, Wimbledon Park, S.W.
Yearslev, P. Macleod, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Western General Dis
pensary, Marylebone-road., N.W.
Young, Rev. Charles John, F.R.A.S., Stafford-place, Halifax.
Young, Professor William H., 67, Kriegstrasse, Karlsruhe-in-Baden.
N.B.—Mcmbers and Associates are requested to send information of any
xhange of address to the Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham-street, Adelphi,
London, W.C.
G36 List of Members and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
(December 31st, 1892.)
All Addresses are " U.S.A." except uheu awtther Country is naiw.1.
MEMBERS.
Bartlett, James W., 211, Central Avenue, Dover, N.H.
BlGkLOW, Dk. W. S., GO, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Blackmar, Paul, 40G, Lumber Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
Blake, Francis, Keewaydin, 'Weston, Auburndale, P.O., Mass.
Bowditch, C. P., 28, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Bradley, Miss A. A., 179, Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass.
Butler, Miss Virginia, Stockbridge, Mass.
Cabby, A. A., 191, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Carnochan, Gouverneur M., 1, Nassau-st., New York City, N.Y.
Casey, Theodore B., Minneapolis, Minn.
Cheney, W. T., 220, Broad-street, Rome, Georgia.
Coffin, C. P., 209, Washington-street, Room 3, Boston, Mass.
Cook, Mrs. Ellen K., 220, Main-street, Davenport, Iowa.
Cory, C. B., 8, Arlington-street, Boston, Mass.
Cowles, Dr. E., McLean Asylum, Somerville, Mass.
Craig, John W., Box 291, San Bernardino, Cal.
Crosby, Mrs. Eleanor F., Gardner-road, Brookline, Mass.
Curtis, W. E., 14, West 20th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Davidson, Thomas, 239, West 105th-street, New York City, N. Y.
Dietrick, Mrs. Ellen B., 176, Huntington-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dodge, J. T., 340, W. Washington-avc., Madison, Wis.
Dow, Alexander, 331, W. 85th-street, New York City.
Dunham, Miss E. L., 37, East 36th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Edwards, Mrs. Mary H., Keene, N.H.
Ellis, Miss Lucy, 330, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Felton, Thomas C, Hotel Ludlow, Boston, Mass.
Fletcher, J. B., 1, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Fkothingham, O. B., 118, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Fullerton, C. W., 94, Dearborn-street, Chicago, 111.
Gage, Lyman J., 470, North State-street, Chicago, 111.
Gale, Harlow S., 43, Bulowstrasse, Berlin.
Gardner, Mrs. John L., 152, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
List of Members and Associates. 637
Gerrish, Dr. F. H., Portland, Maine.
Gill, Wm. Fearing, 3, East 86th-street, New York City.
Oilman, Benjamin I., 62, Cedar-street, New York City.
'Greeley, Mrs. C. A., Nashua, Iowa.
Green, Mrs. Richmond, Easthampton, Mass.
Grower, George G., Ansonia Brass and Copper Co., Ansonia, Conn.
Harden, Judge William D., Savannah, Georgia.
Hemenway, Augustus, Readville, Mass.
Hill, Mrs. A. S., 19, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Holt, Henry, 29, West 23rd-street, New York City, N.Y.
Hudson, Woodward, Concord, Mass.
Hull, Miss P. C, 22, John-street, Providence, R.I.
James, Dr. H. F., 2,627, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
James, Professor William, 95, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Jayne, H. La Barre, 505, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass.
Jenks, Mrs. P. A., 290, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Judah, J. M., 545, Shelby-street, Memphis, Tenn.
Kidd, Geo. W., 853, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Kimball, Miss Hannah P., 325, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 142, E. 18th-street, New York City.
Lodge, Mrs. John E., 31, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Logan, W. S., 58, William-street, New York City, N.Y.
Loisette, Prof. A., 303, West 72nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Lukens, Dr. Anna, 1,068, Lexington-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Mason, H. L., 39, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
McVicker, J. H, McVicker's Theatre, Chicago, 111.
Newcomb, C. A., 1,145, Woodward-avenue, Detroit, Mich.
Newell, Miss Lavinia H., 255, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, 781, Madison-avenue, New York City.
Nims, F. A., Muskegon, Mich.
Nunn, Dr. Richard J., 119 1-2, York-street, Savannah, Georgia.
Osborn, General F. A., 236, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Palmer, Hon. Thomas W., 1,040, Woodward-avenue, Detroit, Mich.
Peabody, JonN E., 183, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Plummer, J. W., 200, Randolph-street, Chicago, 111.
Preston, Mrs. William G., Hotel Berkeley, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. Charles P., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass.
Quincy, Josiah P., 82, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Reece, Mrs. Lucy, 110, Osborne-street, La Porte, Ind.
Robbi.ns, Miss A. M., 7, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Ropes, John O, 99, MountVernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Royce, Professor Josiah, 103, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
2 u
G38 List of Members and Associates.
Savage, Rkv. M. J., Pembroke-street, Boston, Mass.
Sawyer, Hon. Chas. H., Dover, New Hampshire.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, N.Y.
Steedman, J. G. W., A.M., M.D., 2,803, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Stokes, J. N. P., 229, Madison-avenue, New York.
Stone, Charles W., 68, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Sumner, Dr. A. M., 336, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., 305, W. 76th-street, New York City.
Thaw, Mrs. A. B., 305, W. 76th-street, New York City.
Tweedy, Edmund, Newport, Rhode Island.
Van Norden, Rev. C, D.D., Elmira College, Elmira, N.Y.
Ward, W. E., Port Chester, N.Y.
Watts, H. M., "The Press," Philadelphia, Pa.
Whitman, Mrs. Henry, 77, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Wilmarth, Mrs. Mary H., The Auditorium, Chicago, 111.
Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 173, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Maes.
AVoodman, Walter, M.D., Hubbard-park, Cambridge, Mass.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
Alexander, Mrs. Kezia E., Birmingham, Mich.
Rees, Mrs. Ruutz, Wayside, Scarsdale, New York.
Dr. R. W. Shupbldt, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Kismet, Morgan Co., Tenn.
ASSOCIATES.
Abbey, Charlotte S., M.D., 717, Franklin-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Adams, Robert C, 45, Metcalfe-street, Montreal, Canada.
Albree, JonN, Junr., 56, Bedford-street, Boston, Mass.
Albree, Joseph, 20, Market-street, Allegheny, Pa.
Alden, T. E., Vandergrift Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Alexander, Don, 513, McCallie-avenue, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Alling, Joseph T., 72, Oxford-street, Rochester, N.Y.
Almy, Francis, Buffalo, N.Y.
Andrew, Miss Elizabeth L., Old Colony Hill, Hingham, Mass.
Andrews, Mrs. J. A., 307, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Annes, A. L., 106, So. High-street, Janesville, Wis.
Arnold, J. N., 19, College-street, Providence, R.I.
Auel, Mrs. C, 65, Lefferts-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Avery, Miss M. H.,137, Academy-st., Poughkeepsie, New York.
Ayer, J. C, Puritan Club, 50, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Ayers, George D., Maiden, Mass.
Baker, Alfred L., 1,712, Michigan-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Baker, Dr. Smith, Winston-building, Utica, N.Y
List of Members and Associates. G39
Baldwin, Henry C, 172, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Ballou, Mrs. M. B., Whitaker Flats, Davenport, Iowa.
Bancroft, Mrs. John C, 61, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Banker, Mrs. George W., 46, Sterling-place, Brooklyn, New York.
Barnes, T. W., c/o H. P. Starbuck, 62, Wall-street, New York.
Barr, James M., c/o Institute of the City and Guilds of London,
Central Institute, Exhibition-road, S.W.
Barrows, C. M., Prospect Cor. School, Brookline, Mass.
Beale, C. W., Arden, North Carolina.
Beam, Mrs. John V., Jr., 10, West 30th-street, New York City.
Belden, Mrs. Amanda, 4,726, Woodlawn-ave, Chicago, 111.
Bigelow, Horace P., Waterville, Oneida County, NY.
Blackford, A., 322, South Main-street, Findlay, Ohio.
Blackmar, Gen. W.W., 70, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Blodgett, C, M.D., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Blodgett, Mrs., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Boardman, W. F., Department of the Interior, Ottawa, Canada.
Both-Hendriksen, Mdlle. Louise, 166, Macon-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Bowditch, Profkssor H. P., Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.
Braggiotti, Isidore, 208, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Breed, Stephen A., 17, St. James'-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Brennan, Rev. J. K., Louisiana, Mo.
Briggs, Dr. E. C, 125, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Brimmer, Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama.
Brooks, Alexander G, c/o P.R.R., Jersey City, N.J.
Brooks, Dr. F. D., 624, Van Buren-street, New York, N.Y.
Brooks, Henry, 15, Milk-street, Boston, Mass.
Brooks, The Right Rev. Bishop Phillips, 233, Clarendon-street,
Boston, Mass.
Brown, Alfred S., 195, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Brown, Delass S., 309, Main-street, Peoria, 111.
Brown, John F., 16, Baldwin-street, Newton, Mass.
Brown, Mrs. J. F., 16, Baldwin-street, Newton, Mass.
Brown, Wilbur C, 133, St. Botolph-street, Boston, Mass.
Browne, G. H., 16, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Browne, Mrs. L. Andrews, 131, Sargent street, Newton, Mass.
Brush, Miss Helen C, 71, West 47th-street, New York, N.Y.
Bryant, Geo. B., 16, East 70th-street, New York, N.Y.
Buffett, Dr. E. P., 520, Bergen-avenue, Jersey City Heights, N.J.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Bundy, Mrs. Mary E., 92, La Salle Street, Chicago, 111.
Burge, Miss Marie L, 132, Montague-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Carey, Mrs. Arthur, 191, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
G40 List of Members and Associates.
Carleton, Will M., 420, Greene-avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
Carpenter, Frank B., Tiffany Building, 337, 4th-avenue, New York.
Carpenter, Franklin R., M.A., Ph.D., Rapid City, South Dakota.
Carr, Lucien, Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass.
Carr, Robert S., Hamilton, Ohio.
Catlin, Captain R., 1428. Euclid-place, Washington, D.C
Chanler, Mrs. W., c/o Messrs. Morris & Steele, 16, Exchange-place,
New York.
Chapman, Mrs. J. J., 327, West 82nd-street, New York.
Cheney, Dr. Fred. E., Hotel Bristol, Boston, Mass.
Chenoweth, Mrs. C. Van D, 64, E. 86-street, New York City.
Clarke, J. E.r Ph.D., 214, South 43rd-street, Phila., Pa.
Claypole, Professor E. W., 603, Buchtel-avenue, Akron, Ohio,
Cleaves, N. Porter, 3, Central Wharf, Boston, Mass.
Cochran, Mrs. A. P., 1,306, First-street, Louisville, Ky.
Coffin, Charles A., 109, Nahant-street, Lynn, Mass.
Compton, Prof. Elias, Wooster University, Wooster, Ohio,
Comstock, C. B., 39, Whitehall-street, New York, N.Y.
Cone, J. W., Union, Wilson Co., Texas.
Cooper, James, P.O. Box 1,942, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Cope, Professor Edward D., 2,102, Pine-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Corning, Mrs. M. S., 355, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Corser, Mrs. E &, 1,819, Vine-place, Minneapolis, Minn.
Cotton, Mary H, M.D., 114, West 1 23rd-street, New York City.
Crafts, James M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Crafts, Mrs. J. M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Craigie, Ernest J., 134, Peel-street, Montreal, Canada.
Crepin, Ernest E., 4,726, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Critchlow, E B., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Crocker, Mrs. F. E., P. O. Box 59, Columbus Junction, Iowa.
Crosby, Professor W. O., Society Natural History, Boston, Mass.
Croswell, James Q., 17, West 44th-street, New York City.
Cunningham, S. A., Altoona, Florida.
Curran, Richard L., 219, Genesee-street, Utica, N.Y.
Curtis, Mrs. Greely S., 28, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Curtis, Professor John G., 127, East 35th-street, NewYork City.
Cutler, Miss Anna A., M.A., Rockford Cottage, Rockford, 111.
Dailey, Judge Abram H., 16, Court-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Davis, Samuel G., 120, Highland-street, Roxbury, Mass.
Delabarre, Prof. E B., 19, Angell-street, Rockford, Providence, R.I.
De Groot, Mrs. E. K., c/o Mrs. J. de F. Windle, South-street, Stam
ford, Gonn.
Deland, Mrs. Lorin, 112, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Dexter, Mrs. George, Egmont-street, Longwood, Mass.
List of Members and Associates. 641
Dimmock, George, P. O. Box 15, Canobie Lake, N.H.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridgo, Mass.
Dole, Nathan H., " Hedgecote," Glen-road, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Donald, Rev. Dr. E. Winchester, 7, W. lOth-street, New York City.
Dorr, Mrs. C. H., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dorr, George B., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dotv, Asa C, Box 523, Cuba, N.Y.
Drown, T. Pickering, 351, Congress-street, Boston, Mass.
Duncan, W. A., Ph.D., Congregational House, Boston, Mass.
Dunham, Dr. W. R., Stoneham, Mass.
Dwight, Mrs. James, Stockbridge, Mass.
Edmunds, Albert J., 936, Franklin-street, Philadelphia.
Edmunds, Miss L., c/o R. Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Errani, Mrs. Charlotte, 118, East 26th-street, New York City.
Esterly, Mrs. G. W., 104, Lumber Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
Esty, Professor William C, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Evans, Mrs. Edgar B., 80, Chester-square, Boston, Mass.
Evans, Mrs. Edwin T., 189, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Miss Ella K., 186, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Frederick, Junr., Newark Daily Advertiser, Newark, N.J.
Evans, Mrs. Glendower, 12, Otis-place, Boston, Mass.
Evans, Miss M. S., 80, Chester-square, Boston, Mass.
Everett, Professor C. C, 53, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Everett, Torrey, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
Fields, Mrs. James T., 148, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Fillebrown, Thos., M.D., D.M.D., 264, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Fillmore, Dr. C. W., 305, Point^street, Providence, R.I.
Fluhrer, Rev. Charles, D.D., Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Forbes, John M., Milton, Mass.
Ford, Austin E., Freeman's Journal, 11, Park-row, New York City.
Ford, Professor Darius R., D.D., Elmira College, New York.
Foster, Mrs. Wm., 82, Huntington-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Fuller, Miss S. E, 124, West 23rd-street, New York City.
Fullerton, Professor G. S.,4,116,Spruce-street,West Philadelphia, Pa.
Gardiner, Dr. Edward G., Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Gardiner, Professor H. N, 23, Craft's-avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Genung, Prof. J. F., Ph.D., Amherst, Mass.
Ghost, A. M., Room 16, Ghost Block, Denver, Col.
Gibbens, Jos. M., 421, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Gleason, Adele A., M.D., The Sanitarium, Elmira, N.Y.
Goddard, Mrs. Moses, 25, Brown-street, Providence, R.I.
Goodale, Henry Sterling, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Goodnow, H. R., 32, Remsen-street, Brooklyn, New York.
Goodwin, W. H., Junr., Sioux City, Iowa.
(142 List of Members and Associates.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederick, 250, Fifth-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
•Gray, Mrs. John O, 176, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Gridley, J. N., Virginia, 111.
Griffing, Mrs. C. R., 2,024, Lexington-avenue, New York Oity.
Grover, Rev. G. W., Nashua, New Hampshire.
Hale, George S., 5, Exeter-street, Boston, Mass.
Halt,, Miss Harriet M., 45, William-street, Providence, R.I.
Hall, Professor James, New York State Museum, Albany, N.Y.
Hall, Dr. T. P., Clark University, Worcester, Mass.
Hamblet, Eugene, Box 12, Dracut, Mass.
Hamilton, C. M., 50, Main-street, Salamanca, N.Y.
Hamilton-Williams, Mrs. Alice, 37, East 50th-street, New York, N.Y-
Hansen, Otto R., 649, Cass-street, Milwaukee, Wis.
Hardaway, W. A., M.D., 2,710, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Harris, Rev. J.A.,D.D., St. Paul's Rectory, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.
Harris, William T., LL.D., 914, 23rd-street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Harwood, C. H., M.D., 112, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Hawkins, William M., 6, Coit Block, Buffalo, New York.
Haworth, George D., 20, Groveland Park, Chicago, 111.
Haynes, Henry W., 239, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Heard, John, Junr., c/o Messrs. Baring & Co., London, England.
Hedges, Mrs. Sidney M., 76, Highland-street, Roxbury, Mass.
Hicks, Benj. D., Old Westbury, N.Y.
Hiles, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Hoffman, Professor F. S., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.
Hogg, Mrs. John, 50, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Holbrook, Levi, P. O. Box 536, New York City.
Holbrook, Dr. M. L., 46, East 21st-street, New York City.
Holladay, Prof. Waller, 400, West 57th-street, New York City.
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, 112, W. 118th-street, New York City.
Holmes, Rev. S. V. V., 1,262, New Hampshire Ave., N.W. Wash., D.C.
Hooper, Miss E. R., 141, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Hoyle, W., P. O. Box 407, Los Angeles, Cal.
Hurley, A. M., cornerof Firstand Monmouth-sts., Independence,Oregon.
Huse, Wm., Ponca, Dixon Co., Nebraska.
Hutchinson, Dr. Mahlon, 100, State-street, Chicago, 111.
Hyslop, Professor J. H., Columbia College, New York City.
Jackson, Mrs. E. B., 244, Dallas-street, Houston, Texas.
James, Mrs. C. E. L., c/o Bleecher Luce, 10th and Chestnut-streets,
Fort-smith, Ark.
Jewett, Miss S. O., South Berwick, Maine.
Johnson, Charles R., Box 492, 405, Main-street, Worcester, Mass.
Joline, Mrs. Adrian H., 1, West 72nd-street, New York, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates. 643
Jones, Geo. H., 561, Madison Avenue, New York City.
Jones, Miss Theresa E., South Evanstan, 111.
Karns, Prof. T. C, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee.
Kehew, Mrs. William B., 317, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Keith, Miss J. B., 44, Stuyvesant-street, New York City.
Keith, Mrs. Boudinot, 126, East 27th-street, New York City.
Kelly, W. C, Shelbyville, 111.
Kempton, Charles W., 61, Oro Blanco, Pima Co., Arizona.
Kerlin, Isaac N., M.D., Elwyn, Delaware Co., Pa.
Kibbe, A. B., M.D., 3,267, Bailey-building, Seattle, Washington.
Kilner, Mrs. S. E., 333, West 78th-street, New York City.
Knowles, Rev. Edward R., 12, Harvard-place, Worcester, Mass.
Kuhn, Mrs. Hartman, 36, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lang, B. J., Messrs. Chickering and Sons, Boston, Mass.
Langley, Professor S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Latham, Miss V. A , B.Sc, 58, East University-ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.
Lathrop, John, 10, Gloucester-street, Boston, Mass.
Lawrence, Mrs. Amory A., 59, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lee, Mrs. M. H., 21, Chauncey-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Leonard, Thomas, 628, 22nd-street, Philadelphia.
Leonhardt, J. S., M.Sc, M.D., 1,427, O-street, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Leubuschkk, A. L., Humboldt Pub. Co., 19, Astor-place, New York
Lewis, P. M., M.D., Lecompton, Kansas.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
Librarian, Cutting's Free Library, Lunenburg, Vermont.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore.
Librarian, Haverhill Public Library, Haverhill, Mass.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass.
Librarian, Mich. State Library, Lansing, Mich.
Librarian, Nebraska University, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Librarian, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111.
Librarian, Public Library, Denver, Colorado.
Librarian, Rochester Theological Seminary, Rochester, New York.
Librarian, San Francisco Free Public Library, San Francisco, Cal.
Littlefield, J., c/o White ,t Co., 12th & Chestnut-sts., Philadelphia.
Livermore, Mrs. Mary A., Box 565, 9, Emerson-street, Melrose, Mass.
Lockwood, Colonel, J. S., 146, Franklin-street, Boston, Mass.
Lombardi, C, 1,314, Rusk-avenue, Houston, Texas.
Long, George E., Jos. Dixon Crucible Company, Jersey City, N.J.
Long, Rev. J. D., Babylon, Long Island, New York.
Lounsberry, C. A., U. S. Land Office, Fargo, North Dakota.
Macdonald, Dr. R. C, 34, Parmenter-street, Boston, Mass.
.C44 List of Members and Associates.
MacDonough, Thomas B., 25 West 30th-street, New York, N.Y.
Macleod, Miss Gertrude E., 1, Berkeley-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Macqueary, Rev. Howard, Saginaw, Mich.
Manning, F. J. H., 28|, North Front-street, Portland, Oregon.
Marshall, Henry R., Macintyre Bg., 874, Broadway, New York,N.Y.
Mason, Miss Ellen F., 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, Miss Ida, 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, R. Osgood, M.D., 348, West 58th-street, New York City.
Matthews, Mrs. F. A , c/o Brown, Shipley, and Co., London, England.
Matthews, George E., Buffalo Morning Express, Buffalo, N.Y.
M'Arthur, James, 3,848, Lake-avenue, Chicago, 111.
McClelland, Major G. P., Davenport, Iowa.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C, 160, Stirling-place, Brooklyn, New York.
McGee, W. J., U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, D C.
McHenry, Mrs. J. Howard, Pikesville, Balto. Co., Ind.
McIlwraith, H. P., Muskegon, Mich.
McQuigg, Mrs. C. B., 207, Park-avenue, Ironton, Ohio.
Mendenhall, Mrs. L., Duluth, Minn.
Mendenhall, Nereus, M.D., Guilford College, NO
Metcalf, Mrs. J. H., 81, Angell-street, Providence, R.I.
Miller, Mrs. G. S., Peterborough, Madison Co., New York.
Millet, Josiah B., 150, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Milliken, George, 3,614, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Minot, Professor Charles S., 22, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Minturn, Miss, 109, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Mitchell, James, Stock Exchange, New York City.
Moore, Dr. F. Ill, East 45th-street, New York City.
Morgan, W. E., M.D., 34, East 29th-street. Chicago, 111.
Morris, Mrs. Marian L., Room 281, Navy Dept:, Washington, D.C.
Nagles, Miss Maria K., 1,214, Walnut-street, Phila., Pa.
Newbold, Wm. Romaine, Ph.D., 4,116, Spruce-street, Phila., Pa.
Newcomb, Prof. Simon, Washington, D.C.
NicnoLS, Miss A. B., 92, La Salle St., Chicago, 111.
Noble, Louis Spencer, Leadville, Colo.
Norbury, Miss Mary A., 139, West 42nd-street, New York City.
Norris, Hon. C. H., Marion, Ohio.
Oldham, F. F., Blymyer Building, opp. P.O., Cincinnati, Ohio.
Oliver, George, S. J., Santa Barbara, Cal.
Page, Dr. F. W., Hotel Cluny, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Park, Dr. Roswell, 510, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Parke, Miss M. P., 117, West 49th-street, New York City.
Parker, (t. H., Bank of Montreal, Chicago, 111.
Parker, Prof. J. M., Junr., M.D., Mount Pleasant, Iowa.
Parker, William L, 339. Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
List of Members and Associates. 645
Parkman, Miss M. R., Hotel Huntington, Huntiugton-ave.,Boston, Mass.
Parsons, A. J., 1,818, N Street, Washington, D.C.
Parsons, John E., M.D., 6, Grove-street, Ayer, Mass.
Peckham, Dr. Grace, 25, Madison-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, 111.
Pedigo, Dr. Lewis G., Lock Box 259, Roanoke, Virginia.
Pellew, Mrs. Henry E., 1,637, Massachusetts-ave., Washington, D.C.
Pendleton, Miss, 1,522, Locust-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Penfield, Sophia, M.D., Danbury, Conn.
Perkins, Mrs. A. T., 112, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Perkins, Mrs. E. H., 5, East 40th-street, New York City.
Perkins, Franklin R., 294, Linwood-avenue, Buffalo, New York.
Perrin, Mrs. E. O., Stanton, Florida.
Perry, Thos. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Peters, E. T., Box 265, Washington, D.C.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., Forest Hill-street, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Petersen, Dr. Frederick, 829, 7th-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Phillips, Mrs. J. C, Junr., 299, Berkeley-street, Boston, Mass.
Platt, J. C, 333-335, Fourth-avenue, New York City, N.Y.
Plumb, D. S., 24, Boudinot-street, Newark, N.J.
Prince, Dr. Morton, 71, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Pumpelly, Raphael, Bainbridge, Georgia.
Putnam, Dr. James J., 106, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, George, 24, Quincy-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Putnam, Miss Annie C, 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Raine, R. J., Carleton-place, Ontario, Canada.
Rand, Mrs. J. L, 49, Kirkland-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Ransom, Frank H, 137, Main-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Ransom, Paul C, 1,298, Main-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Rayson, Miss Amy, B.A., New York.
Reynolds. Edward, M D., 130, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Richardson, Charles, 608, Chestnut-street, Phila., Pa.
Richardson, Dr. W. L., 225, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Rickf.r, James W., City Collector, City Hall, Boston, Mass.
Rivers, Miss Mary, Milton, Mass.
Bobbins, Miss H. L., 116, West 21st-street, New York City, N.Y.
Rodman, Miss Emma, 174, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Rolfe, Alfred G., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
Rollings, Rev. Henry, Manitowaning, Ontario, Canada.
Botch, Miss Joanna, Milton, Mass.
Rumsey, Mrs. B.C., cor. Delaware-ave. (t Tracey-st., Buffalo, New York.
Ryan, Carroll, 289, St. Martin-street, Montreal, Canada.
Salter, W. M., 1,415, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
2 x
G4G List of Members and Associates.
Sargent, Mrs. Winthbop, 207, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Sawyer, G. C, Utica Academy, Utica, N.Y.
Sawyer, Roswell D., 58, West 57th-street, New York City.
Schiller, C, 109, West 3Sth-street, New York, N.Y.
Schofield, Edward, 713, N. 17th-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Shott, C. C, Arkadelphia, Arkansas.
Scudder, Samuel H., Cambridge, Mass.
Sears, John D., Upper Sandusky, Ohio.
Shaw, Miss Emma G., 84, Huntington-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Shaw, Mrs. Quincy A., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Shed, Z., 832, 17th-street, Denver, Colorado.
Sheets. John C, Cincinnati Sanatorium, College Hill, Ohio.
immi.v, Miss Blanche, 229, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sims, John C, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.
Smith, Francis, Muskegon, Mich.
Smith, Horace J., 6, East Penn, Germantown, Philadelphia.
Smith, H. W., 410, Laurel-avenue, St. Paul, Minnesota.
Smith, William Hawley, Peoria, 111.
Smith, Winfield, Langham Hotel, Washington-street, Boston, Mass.
Stansell, Mrs. E. T., 1,470, Michigan-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Stebbins, Walter G., City Hospital, Boston, Mass.
Steffens, J. L., Credit Lyonnais, Paris, France.
Stillmann, Mrs. W. O., 287, State-street, Albany, N.Y.
Stockton, John P., Junr., Highwood, Bergen Co., N.J.
Stone, Colonel W. L., Jersey City, N.J,
Stone, Mrs. Richard, Junr., 18, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Storer, Albert, 40, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Strauss, Albert, 124, West 97th-street, New- York City, N.Y.
Street, Miss Ida M., 2,033, Dodge-street, Omaha, Neb.
Strong, Charles A., M.D., Hotel San Remo, 8th-ave., New York, N.Y.
Sturc.is, Chas. Russell, 63, Beacon street, Boston, Mass.
Sutherland, J. G., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Talbot, Edward A., 2, Elmo-street, Dorchester, Mass.
Tappan, Miss M. A., 247, Bsacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Taylor, Edward Wyllys, M.D., Montelair, N.J.
Taylor, Fredk., 174, School-street, Lowell, Mass.
Thayer, Mrs. S. V. R., 191, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Thompson, Dr. W., 1,426, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
TnorNDiKk, S. Lothrop, 2, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Thorpe, Joseph G., Junr., 115, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Tickell, I. A. Arscott, Narcoossee, Florida.
Tighe, Judge J.G.,Germanica Bdg., 375-379, Fulton-st., Brooklyn, N.Y.
Tilton, Howard W., 12, Pearl-street, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
Totten, Mrs. Enoch, 1,708, I-street,Washington, D.C.
List of Members and Associates. 647
Towner, Judge J. W., Santa Anna, California.
Toy, Professor C. H., 7, Lowell-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Turnbull, Miss K. E., 113, East 39th-street, New York City, N.Y.
Turner, Miss Mary J., 11, Faxon-avenue, Quincy, Mass.
Tutton, Mrs. Sara, 2,318, Jay-street, Denver, Colorado.
Twinch, Frederick, 455, West 57th-street, New York City.
Tyler, J. C, Magnolia-ave., cor. Olive-street, Knoxville, Tenn.
Tyson, Mrs. George, 314, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Van Allen, Wm. H., St. John's School, 34, Varick-street, New York.
Van Brunt, Cornelius, 319, East 57th-street, New York City.
Van Horn, M. L., 104, West 29th-street, New York City.
Van Norden, Theodore L., 16, West 48th-street, New York City. N.Y.
Van Slyke, J. M., 23, North Pinckney-street, Madison, Wis.
Vaughan, Miss Virginia, 226, West 34th-street, New York City.
Viele, Herman, 1,722, Conn.-avenue, Washington, D.C.
Wade, Miss Julia Frances, Box 268, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Wait, Marshall, 5,144, Madison-ave., Hyde Park, Chicago, 111.
Wake, C. Staniland, 349, North Clark-street, Chicago, 111.
Warren, Dr. J. W., Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Watson, Mrs. F. S., 263, Clarendon-street, Boston, Mass.
Watson, Professor William, 107, Marlborough street, Boston, Mass.
Watson, Dr. William H., 720, Genesee street, Utica, N.Y.
Webb, Mrs., 34, Chestnut-street, Salem, Mass.
Webster, David L., 332, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Westbrook, Dr. R. B., 1,707, Oxford-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wheeler, Mrs. Stephen, cor. 6th and Ash-streets, Fort Smith, Ark.
Wheeler, William, Concord, Mass.
White. Mrs. Florence D., 765, Broadway, New York.
White, Professor Frances E., 1,533, North 15th-st., Philadelphia, Pa.
White, Henry G., 32, Irving-place, Buffalo, New York.
White, James T., 765, Broadway, New York.
White, J. T., M.D., Room 206, Pioneer-bdg., Seattle, Washington.
Whiteside, Miss Hilda, Coleshill Lodge, Sutton Coldfield, Bir
mingham.
Whiton, Rkv. James M., Ph.D , 18, W. 9th-street, New York City.
Williams, Professor H. H, University of N.C., Chapel Hill, N.C.
Wilson, Mrs. John L., Box 19, Framingham, Mass.
Wilson, Tom L, Room 10, Chopin Block, Buffalo, N.Y.
Winter, Mrs. W., 17, 3rd-ave., New Brighton, Staten Island, New York.
Wright, Dr. J. P., 36, New Montgomery-st., San Francisco, Cal.
Wright, James A., 1,127, Sherbrook-street, Montreal, Canada.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Wynne, Mrs. M. Y., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Zuo, C, Sable Iron Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.
.
■
OF
T FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCi
VIII. Dcttmbtr, 1892.
I. Do l'Appreciation du Temps par les Somnambules. Par M. J.
II. Some Experiments in Thought - Transference. By Dr. A.
III. The Subliminal Consciousness. Chap. V. Sensory Automatism
unci Induced Hallucinations. By Frederic W. H. Myers 436
Experiments in Thought-Transference. By Mrs. H. SloowiOX
William Stiiinton-Moscs. By Frederic W. H. Myers . . 597
II. The Second International Congress of Experimental Psychology. 601
Supplementary Catalogue of the Edmund Gurney Library . . . C12
;-of Members and Associates of the AmerioUi Branch . . . C30
The responsibility fur both the fuels unil the reas,n,in,rs in /tapert fmblishtd
London :
R Vt I \ \ p\c[ TRFNCH TItUBNFIl Sc CO LrjctTBu
Hallosted information, bearing on the various sub
which arc being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully reoei
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Societ;
from others.
It is hoped that Members and Associates in different pn
country, who are willing to take an active part in the .
researches, will put themselves in communication with the Hon.
Secretaries, F. W. H. Myers, Esq., Leckhampton House, Cambridge
or Frank Podmore, Esq., 32, Well Walk, Hampstead, N.W.
The Assistant-Secretary is at the Rooms of the Society, No. 19,
Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C., on every week-day, except Satur
day, from 2.30 to 5.30 p.m. At these times Members can obtain
Books from the Library.
PROCEEDINGS OF
IE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Principal Contents of Parts XVII.—XXII.
i Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
rtary, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C.]
Part cember, 1890.—Price 3s. Od.
\t
Address by the President, Prokessor Sidgwick, on the (
Bdlttcin»tSoM (his second address on this subject)
A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of 1 rancc-
m \?t™lnfon^J^L O JMLomik,'F.RS. '
(«
explain by directThought-Trans-fen
Part III., by PROFESSOK WILLIAM
University ....
. of
:.nit to
IESSOr
James, of Harvard
I. Second Ad Ii
II. Review of A.
Myers
im Report on the Census of Hallucinations
:sakof's Animisrous and Spiritismns. By F. W. II.
PAGk
429
605
661
s. 6d.
Part XVIII. Vol. VII.—April, 1891.—Pi
I Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. By Baron VON
ir Vv'nmV•.oiit« in Autoiuatic Writing. By Thomas Barkworth .
III On thi rv dence for Clairvoyance. Part I. By Mrs. H. Sihowick
IV Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. By Leon Marilliek
PAGE
3
23
30
100
Part XIX. Vol. VH.-July, I891.-Price 2s. 6d. PAOk
I. 0n Moi-emcntso . j bv jv \y. H. Myers . 140
ir,™,imLi - i„ ri-tirvovance Bi DR. ALFreD B.VCKMAN 199
l^.erirnem- [/j- *0usness J uy RICH Uflo HorXWON . . 221
T XX. VOL. VII.—February, 1892.—Price 2s. 6d. PAGE
IV. Borne I!econt Thought-Tran
i on Alleged Movements ol Objects without Contact, Ootwringw.
in thA'roenceof a Paid Medium. Part II By F. W. M. MYkR
By F. W. H. Myers ... 298
.Mi uioe or ^ . . ^
F. W. H. Myers .... 370
ince Experiments. By Professor
,< O
IUCJtAB
Hyi
M VI
The
Mr*
Philmil > Account of Him*
Reli,i Imi of i'hinuit to Mp
Com
PART XXII. Vol. VIIL-July, 1S02.-
of the Parte separately, can bo u
UEAKXNa Cross Roa^' Lon i.. ,s.
ad Asa ill h
Any Part may bo purch .aep
Vol. t (Parts i.—iv
„ ILi „ v.—vn
IV. (
. . . 340. 01.
viii.—ix.jpp. 500. 5s.
x.—xi.) pp. (id5. 4s.
"./,!! > " xvl11, xx7PP,**f* •
„V1H.( „xxi.-xx«i.)wj.647. to
IL FOK rmVATE ClE-
Cloth-Iuttcred covers for binding any of tho
Tub Society also lssces a Monthly Jo
CULATION AMOJ-O MkMBKKS AND Ax&OOUXSH ONLY.
Any well-attested information, bearing on tho various subjects which are
being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received. Communion
ROOMS OF THE SOCIETY FOB PSYO IICAL RESF \l:rl!
.... W.C.
KE«;\N TAI L, TRENCH, TRUBNER & Co.
