{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1846__hall___universalism_against_itself.pdf","mytitle":"Universalism Against Itself","mylang":"de"}
t
. ■■ .
UNIYERSALISM
A G A I N S T I T S E L F ,
AN EXAM INATION AND REFUTATION
OF THE
P R IN C IP A L ARGUM ENTS
aunm > IV SUPPORT OF THE FINAL H0USE88 AND HAPPINESS OF
AU MANKIND.
BY ALEXANDER HALL. *
- ^ v in r i n r ir in r ir in ir r ^ n n n r in r in n r ir ir ~ ~ ^ p f " ^ ^ ^ ~ -
“Out o f thy oton mouth will I condemn thee."
ST. CLAIRSVILLE, O.: .
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR.
. 1846.
<??47
■rii4
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year eighteen hundred and forty
six, by Aluakdkr Hill, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United
Mates, for the District of Ohio.
CI NCI NNATI I
iV
r NOTE,
Gentle Reader : You need not expect that I am
going to weary your patience or my own, by giving you
a lengthy preface, or formal apology ; and, aa for intro­
duction, I will hereby introduce you to the body of the
work, and let you read for yourself. But before you
commence, I have one word of friendly admonition to
give you, and that is ihis: Please to do yourself the
favor, and your humble servant the justice, to read this
book through carefully,—examine every subject tho­
roughly,—scrutinize every position rigidly,—measure
every sentence critically,—weigh every argument
fa irly,—decide every point impartially, and act
upon the whole matter honestly; and if you are a
believer in Universalism, you will throw that doctrine
away ; and if you do not believe it, there is no danger
that you ever will.
A. HALL.
UNIVERSALISMO AGAINST ITSELF.
CHAPTER I.
P roof-texts of Universausm Examined»
“PROVE ALL THINGS AND HOLD FAST THAT WHICH IS GOOD.»
I Then. 5: SSL
I Gen. 32« 18. And in thy seed shall all die
• nations o f the earth be blessed.
1. U n iv e r s a l is t a rely upon this text with its parallels,
asincontrovertible evidence that the whole human faro»
iywill finally be made holy and happy. The assumption .
that promises of a Universal, or general character are
absoluteor unconditional,form the bone and sinew of Uni«
versalism; and let it once be made to surrender this
Sound, and nine tenths of its fortifications have fallen
fore the artillery of truth.. With the reader’s indul­
gence, we shall examine this subject thoroughly; and
demonstrate that Universalism, as based upon the as­
sumption of unconditional promises, has no foundation
inthe word of God, and line the splendid edifice erec­
tedupon the sand, must totter and fall to ruins.
2. The whole force of the argument depends upon
the word shall:—4
4In thy seed shall all the nations of
the earth be blessed.” Universalists assume that it is
unconditional, because no condition is here
Bat we shall now prove beyond successful cquX
tonsxv}
A*
«t
\
• U N IV EB 8A LI8M
that many of the promises and threatenings of the bible*
are conditional, and depend upon the actions of men ft»
their accomplishment, when tne condition is not express
sed, but merely implied. But previous to this, we lay*
down an important rule of interpretation, without which
no man can shield the bible from numerous contradic­
tions, and from an ignorance of which, have originated
nearly all the false doctrines in Christendom; and many,
(especially among the Universalists,) from an ignorance
of this rafe, have turned avowed infidels, and denied in
toto the divine authenticity of the bible. The rule is
this: that a condition being expressed in anypart ofthe bir
Me with respect to any promise or threat, that condition
must be understood as implied, in all other places where
that promise or threat is recorded, if not there expressed!
With this rule before us we shall now examine some of
the threats and promises of the bible.
3. 4
4And Jonah began to enter into the city a day’s
journey, and he cried and said: yet forty days, and Nin-
evah shall be overthrown.” (Jonah 3. 4.)* Here is no
condition expressed. It is not said:4
4
Yet forty days and
Ninevah shall be overthrown,” if they do not repent.
But did not the Ninevites so understand it? Read the
next verse: 4
4So the people ofNinevah believed Ood, and
proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the great­
est of them even to the least of them.” Now if the peo­
ple of Ninevah believed God, as it is here declared, why
did they repent in sackcloth, unless they understood that
there was a condition implied in this threat? and that
they might by repentance escape the threatened judg­
ment? Why did they not coolly submit to their fate,—
await the forty days, and be destroyed, without exerting
themselves in the manner they did? The response of
all must be: it was because they understood that there
was a condition implied in that threat. But was their
understanding of the matter correct? Read on. 4
4
And
God saw their works, that they turned from their evil
way,and God repented ofthe evil hesaid he woulddo unto
them, and he dia it not*” (verse \0*\ Now VInwetsalUu
/
* *
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 7
have to take one of three grounds: Either 1« That God
told the Ninevites a positive falsehood: or That the
Ninevites were actually destroyed in forty days,and
thus flatly contradict the biUe: or 3. That there was a
condition implied in that threat. The former two they
dare not assert: hence the latter they are compelled to
admit, which lays the axe at the very root of universal»
ism.
4. u Wherefore the Lord God of Israel saith: I said
indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father should
walk before me forever; fno condition expressed here]
but now the Lord saith: be it far from me; [to perform
this promise,] for them that honor me, I will nonof; and
they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.” (1 Sam«
2. 30.) Thus, notwithstanding God had promised, with»
out expressing any condition, that the house of Ely, and
the house of his father should walk before him forever;
bat because they refused to honor him, by the contempt
with which they had treated his ordinances, and thus did
not perform the condition implied in this promise;—
therefore the Lord reversed the matter, and instead of
continuing to confer upon them the honorary distinctions
of sacerdotal dignity,brought upon them shame and con»
fusion of face.
5. 4
4Then said David: O Lord God of Israel, thy ser­
vant hath certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to
Keilah to destroy the city for my sake. Will the men of
Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul come down,
as thy servant hath heard? O Lord God of Israel I
beseech thee, tell thy servant. And the Lord said: he
will come down. (No condition expressed.) Then said
David: will the men Keilah deliver me and my men
into the land of Saul? And the Lord said: they will de­
liver thee up• (No if in the case expressed.) Then Da­
vidand his men, which were about six hundred, arose and
departed out of Keilah,—and it was told Saul that David
was escaped from Keilah, and he forbore to go forth.7
9
(1 Sam. 23.10-13.) Here again we have UmvetaaVtaa
in m tjght piece* According to their docVnae^ dwl
f LWIVER6 AL1SM,
i
comedown; and the men of Kedah did deliver David
and his men into the hand of Saul; because there was no
condition expressed, and they tell us there can be none
implied. Hence the bible is false, and David was killed ■
by Saul in Keilah, notwithstanding he reigned King
over Israel many years after Saul was dead. When
God said, in reply to the reguests of David: Saul m tt
come dorm; and the men of Keilah will deliver thee up;
it was implied: if you continue in the city. This the
sequel proves; for David left the city, and conseaueatly
Saul did not come down, neither was David delivered
in his hands. Universalists are compelled to acknowl­
edge our position, or deny the truth of the Bible, or in
the third place, take the ground that the Almighty told
David a wilful falsehood.
6. We have another most striking evidence of the
conditionality of divine promises when the condition is
only implied; and that too in the case of Abraham*
We can thus let one promise to Abraham explain anoth­
er. To this none will object “And he said unto Abram:
know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a
land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they
shall afflict them four hundred years,—but in the fourth I
generation they shall come hither again. (Gen. Id. ,
13-16.) This promise is without an expressed condi- !
tion; and has just as much appearance of absoluteness, as
the .one under examination upon which Universalism is
based. 1 can fancy I hear the Jews, as they were trav­
eling through the wilderness^—those disobedient fellows
who were tinctured with Universalism,—debating with
Moses and Aaron, and reasoning thus: “ Surely we shall
all be brought safely into the land of Canaan without
the loss of one. This is as sure, and as firm, and as un­
alterably fixed as the pillars of heaven. For God swear
to our father Abraham, that after his seed had sojourned
in the land of Egypt 400 years, they should be brought
again into this land; and mere was no if in the ease;—
hence it is unconditional. Mark the positive, absolute
manner in which it is expressed. 4In the fourth gener-
A G A IN 8T IT S E L F .
ation they SHALL come hither again:9and who dare
call in question the oath of Jehovah? Therefore ye men
of Israel, although it would be better to walk in the
f commandments of God, yet you need have no fears with
rreference to that goodly land: the oath of Jehovah can»
not be broken; and though you lie, steal, commit forni­
cation, and bow down to other gods, and worship im­
ages made with your own hands: still you are perfectly
safe, as far as the land of Canaan is concerned; for that)
be it remembered, depends alone upon*the unconditional
promise to Abraham • God, you recollect, confirmed the
same thing to us when we were eating the passover: ‘It
shall come to pass, when ye be come to the land which
the Lord will give you, according as he has promised9
(Ex. 12. 25.) What need we of farther witness? God
says he wiU give us the land of Canaan, according as he
baapromised. No condition here neither: hence it will
be certainly ours; notwithstanding these partialists, Mo­
ses and Aaron, are continually limiting the Holy One of
Israel, and teaching the absurd and cruel dogma, that
our finite ofFences will frustrate the purposes of God, and
that on account of our sins, we shall die in the wilder­
ness, and fail to reach the promised land. This is too
preposterous to be believed, and hence there is no need
of getting alarmed, for such monstrous absurdities are
only got up to frighten and gull the ignorant.” This,
reader, would no doubt have been good logic then, and
a fac simile of the logic of Modern XJniversalism.
7. This kind of reasoning in the abstract, has some
appearance of plausibility we confess: yet the Lord has
replied to all such logic, and the difficulty we think, is
satisfactorily disposed of. Let us now hear what he had
to say: ttAs truly as I live saith the Lord;—your carcass­
es shall fall in the wilderness, and all that were num­
bered of you, according to your whole number, from
twenty years old and upwards, which have murmured
against me, doubtless ye shall not come into the land con*
ceming which I swear to make you dwell therein,
M>/¡bpmod o f Jephunaeh, and Joshua the sou
\
10 UNIVERSALISM
After the number of the days in which ye searched the
land, even forty days, each day for a year shall you bear
your iniquities, even forty years, and ye shall know my
BREACH OF PROMISE,—in this wilderness they,
shall be consumed, and there they shall die.” (Num. 14.
28-35.) This settles the controversy with Universalism,
as based upon the assumption of absolute promises.—
Though God had made a promise to bring the posterity
of Abraham into the land of Canaan, and had confirmed
it with an oath, giving it all the appearance of absolute*
ness which can be attached to the prooktext under ex­
amination; yet,notwithstandingall this, the Jews by their
unbelief and consequent disobedience, caused God to
break that promise, and their carcasses fell in the wil­
derness: and Paul says: “ They could not enter in, be­
cause of unbelief.” (Heb. 3. 19.) It was not because
God was unwilling to bring them in, but it was their
own disobedience which caused the u breach ofpromise.”
Had we no other proofs to offer upon this subject, the
way the matter now stands, we would have ninety-nine
probabilities out of a hundred, in favor of our position,
and against Universalism. This however is but a tithe
of the evidence we have to offer.
8. “At what instant I shall speak concerning a na­
tion, and concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it;
if it do evil in my sight, that it obey not my voice, then
I will repent of the good wherewith I said I would benefit
them.” fJer. 18.9, 10.) Now suppose we admit the
text under examination, to be a promise of universal
salvation, what would it avail Universalism, since God
has most distinctly declared: “ If they do evil in ray sight,
that they obey not my voice,then will Irepent ofthe good,
[universal salvation] wherewith I said Iwould BENEFIT
them.” Just as certain as God has promised salvation
in heaven to any body, just so certain they may forfeit
this good, wherewith God has said he would benefit
them. Here then Universalists have met with a Water­
loo defeat; and the only chance now left them, is to cry
for quarters;—or if they axe at&l detetmuxed to
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 11
1 them deny that God has ever promised salvation in hea*
ren to any body; (for we have seen that as certain as
heaven is promised, so certain in may be forfeited by
disobedience) but take the ground, that all will be um-
rersally saved by chance ! They can build as good an
argument in favor of this position as the other, and get
just as much scripture to sustain it; i. e. none at all!
9. Once more: 4
4When I say to the righteous that he
ihall surely live, (this is expressed in language even
stronger than the promise to Abraham) i f he trust to his
own righteousness, and commit iniquity, all his righteous­
ness shall not be remembered, but for his iniquity that he
hath committed, he shall diefor it* Again, when I say
to the wicked, thou shall SURELY dte, (Univeraalists
would say, this surely is unconditional) i f he turn from
his sin, and do that which is lawful and right,—he shall
surely /tee, he shall not die.” (Ezek. 33.13-15.) There
are two things in connection with this subject unaccount­
ably strange. The first is: that the prophets should be
so exceedingly minute and particular, m teaching the
, opposite of Universalism; and be so definite in stating,
i and reiterating principles, which so pointedly subvert
and uproot its very foundation. The second is: that the
system of Universalism should ever have found a loca-
; tion in the cranium of any man of sense, and be defend-
i ed as if divinely sanctioned. The testimony of the proph-
\ et, as above quoted, is most pointed and emphatic
i against this doctrine. Suppose Universalists should find
[ a text, which declared in so many words:4
4the whole hu­
man family shall surely be saved;” still it would not prove
, Universalism, unless it could be demonstrated that the
whole human fa m ily ,without exception, does that which
is lawful and riffht: for we can turn over to Ezekiel,
where the Lord has once for all, and forever put an end
to all controversy upon this subject,—and where he has
t given us a clear, and most explicit explanation of all
such promises. He there informs us,that though he should
r declare in language the most emphatic, that the u>lvoleta r
t shmfa m ily shallSU R E LY be saved; yetVifasi
\
19 U N IV ERSA LISM
commit iniquity, and refuse to do that which is lawful
and right, they shall SURELY be damned, they shall
not besaved ! ! From this we learn, that there cannot be
such a thing as an absolute or unconditional promise, in*
volving the happiness of man* God here informs us,
that though he should make the most positive promise,
without expressing or even intimating a condition, still
there would be a condition implied ; and it would depend
upon the lawful, and righteous conduct of men for its ful­
fillment! Here then is Universalism transfixed to the
core. The quintescense of its very existence is destroy­
ed; and this one declaration of scripture without the as­
sistance of any other, fastens a mill-stone about its neck,
and swings it overboard into the bottom of the sea.—
Sufficient has now been said, we think, to dispose of
Universalism as based upon the assumption of absolute
promises in general: yet it may be necessary to be a lit­
tle more particular, and adduce a few more testimonies,
with respect to the promise at the head of this'article.
10. Some deference at least, should be paid to "the
views entertained by the apostles concerning this prom­
ise. We shall first hear the opinion of Peter, as he was
honored with'the keys of the kingdom of heaven. In a
very notable discourse, delivered by him in Solomon’s
porch, before a large audience of the Jews, he declares:
4
4Ye are the children of the prophets, and of the cove­
nant which God made with our fathers, saying unto
Abraham, and in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the
earth be blessed. [Unconditionally? No.] Unto you first,
God having raised up his son Jesus, sent him to bless yot^
[How?] in turning away every one of youfrom his in-
tquilies” [Acts 3. 25, 26.] Now, I have no objection to
sul men being saved, providing they all submit to be
turned away from their iniquities. Peter here delares
most positively, that they cannot be blessed, according to
the promise made to Abraham, unless Christ does turn
them away from their iniquities. And this he is to do
here, by hisfirst mission. [Mark the language.] 4
4God
having raised up his son Jesus,SENT him to blesa njoux”
AGAINST IT S E L F . IS
cot,willsend him to bless you at the resurrection ! But
did Peter tell them in that discourse, what plan Christ
had appointed, in order to turn them away from their
iniquities ? He certainly did. 4
4
Repent ye therefore and
^ beconverted, that your sine may beblottedout” [verse 19,1
or,[which is precisely the same,] that you may be turned
m ayfrom your iniquities. From this testimony it is in-
controvertably established, [if Peter understood the sulv
ject correctly,] that the blessing promised in the seed of
Abraham, is forgiveness of sins, to be enjoyed by uall na­
tions” in this life, and is suspended upon the conditions of
E tance and conversion!! This utterly excludes Univer-
qfrom the kingdom of heaven ; for Peter, havingthe
keys of that kingdom, has forever locked the door against
it.
11. W e shall next hear the testimony of Paul, the
great apostle to the Gentiles, and plenipotentiary min­
uter of Jesus Christ. Universalists will certainly not
object to his testimony; for they claim him to be a regular
Universalist preacher. But let us hear »what he says:
“When God made promise to Abraham, because he could
wear by no greater, he swear by himself,—that by two
immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to
lie,tee might have strong consolation who have FLED fo r
; refuge to LAY HOLD on the hope set before us.” [Hfeb.
6. 13, 18.] From this we discover, that the consolation,
or the biessipg included in the promise to Abraham, was
} for those oniy whofledfo r refuge, and who laid hold on
5 the hope set before them in the gospel. Thus Paul’s ex-
* planation of this promise, so for from favoring the incon-
) eruous theory of Universalism, leaves the old ship BAL­
LOU without helm, anchor, or rudder, to plough its way
3 towards its unconditional harbor with TEKEl inscribed
e in large capitals upon every sail. But let us hear this
* apostle again: 4
4The scriptures foreseeing that God
0 would ju stify the heathen throughfaith,preached before
n the gospel unto Abraham, saying: in thee shall all nations
1
° be blessed” [GaL 3. 8.] According to this, the btessmg
^ referred to in tbegjvm ke to Abraham, was
/
14 U N IV E R S A L ISM
nor less than justification byfaith. If this be not true, iM
then Paul did not understand the subject correctly: and
if it be true, then three things must follow : 1« That the *
promise to Abraham is conditional. 2. That all who are
notoffa ith have no share in the blessing promised. And ls
3. That Paul was not a Universalist. In order now to (fl
determine whether we have correctly understood die ^
apostle’s view of this subject, we ask him this definite ;j
question : Who are to participate in the blessing promis- ¡
0
ed to Abraham ? He answers : 4
4They which be o ffaith) ^
are blessed with faithful Abraham,” [verse 9.] In verse ^
29th he adds;4
4If ye be Christ’s, then are ye Abraham’s x
seed and heirs according to the promise.” Who ^are j
Christ’s f Ans. 4
4They that are Christ’s have crucified B
«the flesh with the affections and lusts.” [Gal. 5. 24.] ^
Heirship according tothepromise we discover from this to
be conditional. None are heirs, except those who are ^
children; for Paul says: “Ifchildren, then heirs” [Rom. ^
8. 17.] Let us now inquire if becoming children o f God, t
and children of Abraham, is conditional; for, [mark i t !] ^
upon this is suspended heirship “according to the prom- t
iee.” If we become children of God, and children of
Abraham conditionally; then we become heirs according ,,
to the promisetconditionally; and consequently the bless­
ing included in the promise to Abraham is not absolute, ,1
or unconditional, as Universalists so dogmatically assert. |
Let us see. 4
4We are all the children, of God, byfa ith in
Christ Jesus.” [Gal. 3. 26.] « Know ye therefore, that «
they which are offa ith , the sameare the children ofAbrar
ham.” [Gal. 3« 7.] The whole matter now stands thus :
(Paul’s view of the subject being correct«) 1. We can­
not be heirs, according to the promise made to Abra­
ham, unless we belong to Christ the seed of Abraham;
and we cannot be Christ’s unless we crucify the flesh
with the affections and lusts. 2. We cannot be heirs of
the blessing promised to Abmham—the unsearchable
riches of Christ, unless we.are children; and none can be
children, only those who 4
4are o f fa ith f* and hence the
argument in favor of the conditionality ofthe promise to
▲G A IN ST IT flB L F . IS
Abraham, u put beyond the reach of controversy. Pa­
ter’s explanation, as we have seen, left Universalism
dead; but Paul’s leaves the doctrine twice dead, and
plucked up by the roots !
12. In conclusion upon this promise, we present Uni­
versalism against itself. Universalists contend that all
nations, must mean the whole humanfam ily, without ex­
ception. All we have to do now, to make Universalism
commit suicide, is to read another text with their own
definition. u When the son of man shall come in his
glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit
upon the throne of nis glory, and before him shall be
gathered all nations, [that is: the entire posterity of
Adam] and he shall separate them one from another, as
a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats.9
* [Math.
25. 31, 32.] Query: Was the whole human family
arraigned before Titus at the destruction of Jerusalem?
Were Universalists present on that occasion? If not,
then the coming of the Lord is yet future, themselves
being judges. We therefore speak within bounds, when
we say that Universalism is against itself, and virtually
renounced by its advocates, whenever this text is sum«*
moned to itssupport.
a Psalm 22. 27. All the ends of the world
*shaU remember and turn unto the Lord« and
all the kindreds of die nations shall worship be­
fore thee.
Psalm 86, 9. All nations whom thou hast made
shall come and worship before thee, O Lord, and
shall glorify thy name.
Universalism teaches that this turning to the Lord,—
worshipping before him, and glorifying his name, is all
to take place in the resurrection state; and when this is
done, all will be brought to know God, and be saved
from sin. But here again we have Untuersolism u^owast
itself.- for men cannot be made holy and ^
ONI V E R S ALi&M
16
operation of being raised from the dead, as Universalism
teaches; and at the same time be made holy and happy
by remembering, and turning to the Lord, and glorifying
his name, after they are raised! They cannot remember,
and turn to the Lord and worship him, in the resurrection,
for this, they will have no hand in; hence the worship­
ing and turning to the Lord, must take place afterwards;
and consequently they must be raised in their sins. But
let us look at these proof-texts. The word shall, upon
which the whole argument is here based, has not the same
meaning, as in the promise to Abraham just examined.
It is here used in the sense of a command, as it always is
when it precedes duties to be performed by man. The
remembering, worshipping, turning to the fjord, and glo­
rifying his name, are all duties to be performed by the
44ALL NATIONS,” 4
4KINDREDS,” and 4
4ENDS OF THE WORLD,”
named in the above texts. It does not follow however,
because God says all the ends of the world shall turn.
that therefore they actually will turn. When Moses had
predieted the coming of a prophet, whom the Lord
should raise up like unto him, he concludes by saying:
4
4Him shall ye hear.” Did all the Jews hear that pro­
phet? No. What proof then is there, that shall, in
the above proof-texts, is any more likely to be accom­
plished? Universalists quote Dan. 7. 14, and apply it
to this present world. We admit it; and it reads thus:
4
4And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a
kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages should
serve him.” This is as extensive as the texts under ex­
amination; and now why, let me ask, does not all peo­
ple, nations and languages serve him? Let Universalists
explain this, and the explanation will apply unanswera­
bly to the texts at the head of this article. They dare
not apply this language of Daniel to eternity, for fear of
verse 10; mark that! And hence they are bound to ex­
plain it, so as to harmonize with facts as they exist in this
world; which is all we ask; and then it will beunderstood,
si by the Word shall, God commands 4
4all the kindreds
n a tio n s and*allthe ends of foewoAd? \owcaa
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . IT
and worship before him, just as he 4
4commands all men
every where to repent,” and leaves it optional with
them whether to obey or not.
® Psalm 145,9. The Lord is good to all, and
® #his tender mercies are over all his works.
1. This text does nothing in favor of Universalism, but
is in reality opposed to that doctrine: and we shall prove
that U niversalism is against itself, in trying to com-
pel it into its service. We will now state three facts,
and draw one conclusion which will prove the above al­
teration. 1. God is good to all in the present tense:
Mark that: is good; not will be good in the resurrection,
or at some other future period. 2. Some men are sin­
ful and miserable nou?, notwithstanding God in the pre­
sent tense is good to all. 3. God is immutable,—the
Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither
shadow of turning. Therefore God will never be so
good, but what he will allow sin and misery to exist.—
This conclusion cannot be evaded; for God is note, just
as good as he ever will be to all eternity; and jret, not­
withstanding his present infinite goodness, which can
never be increased an iota, hundreds and thousands live
and die in their sins, guilty, miserable and condemned.
Now if God’s infinite goodness cannot, or will not save
them here, then his immutability forbids their salvation
forever. Universalists do not anticipate the dilemma
in which they inevitably involve their doctrine, by quo­
ting this text. It would be much better for their system,
if tney could find a text which declared, that Cod was
not now very good, but would get better at the resurrec­
tion. This might give them some ground to hope that
those, who die in their sins, would be redeemed at the
resurrection, by the increased goodness of God. But
as it is, it leaves them no ground for such an expectation,
and is consequently opposed to this doctrine. 2. Again:
4
4
His tender mercies are over all his works.” From^Yi
k k inferred that ail will be saved; but it d o ti no mute
18 U N IV E R S A L I S M
in favor of the salvation of all men in the future state,
than it does for their salvation now. If the tender mer­
cy of God can be over a man threescore and ten years,
and he be sinful and miserable all the while; what proof
is there that he may not be sinful and miserable m the
future state, notwithstanding the tender mercy of God?
But says one: “ His mercy endureth forever,” WelJ,
what if it does? This mercy can permit men to practice
inquity, till they become a curse to themselves, a die-
Kace to society, and finally curse God and die, and what
tter will it make the matter for such mercy to endure
forever? The mercy that will allow a man to live in sin
all his life, and die in this condition, will not help him
out of the difficulty by enduring eternally.
3. But will it do to give this text a universal applica­
tion? It will not. God is not good to att, in the most
universal sense of that word ALL; neither are his tender
mercies over all his works in this sense. Proof in abun­
dance shall be given. Was God good to the Sodomites,
when he rained down fire and brimstone upon their heads,
till he had consumed them? Yes, says one; for God says
himself: “ I took them away as 1 saw g o o d .” [Ez. 16.
50.] But good to whom? JNiot to the Sodomites surely,
but it was good to righteous Lot and his family; and in
the second place, as Jude says: They were “ set forth
for an e x a m p l e , suffering the vengeance of eternal fire.n
[Jude 7*] Thus, it was a good example for “ those who
should afterwards live ungodly.” [2 Pet. 2-6.] Paul
settles this matter, and we think puts it forever at rest*
“ Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God; on
them which fell s e v e r it y , but towards thee goodness, if
thou continue in his goodness, otherwise thou also shalt
be cut off” [Rom. 11.22.] Here the word severity is used
in contrast with goodness^ and hence must mean directly
the opposite. From this it is evident, that God is not
good to a l l , in a universal sense; for it was not goodness
to those who f e l l , but severity, and goodness to others,
upon the condition of continuing in his goodness.
4. Universalists try to make captaA oi focx*
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 19
tbe psalmist so frequently makes use of the phrase, 4
4His
mercy endureth forever,” and that he repeats it a num­
ber of times in one psalm. We will now give an ex­
tract from that psalm, and the reader can then judge
for himself, to whom the mercy of the Lord endureth
forever. 4
4O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good,
for his mercy endureth forever.—To him that smote
Sorirr in their fir st born, for his mercy endureth for­
mer. And brought out Israel from among them, for his
nercy endureth forever. To him who divided the Red
¡ea into parts, for his mercy endureth forever. And
nade Israel to pass through the midst of it, for his mercy
mdureth forever. But overthrew Pharaoh and his
tost in th e red sea, for his mercy endureth forever.
Fo him which led his people through the wilderness, for
tis mercy endureth forever. To him which smote great
rings, for his mercy endureth forever. And slew fam ous
rings* for his mercy endureth forever. Sihon, king of
he Amorites, for his mercy endureth forever. And Og,
he King of Bashan, for his mercy endureth «forever,
knd gave their land for an heritage, for his mercy en-
lureth forever. Even an heritage unto Israel, for his
nercy endureth forever. And hath redeemed us from
xir enemies, for his mercy endureth forever.” [Ps. 136.]
Thus we discover, that the mercy of the Lord endureth
forever toward his people who fear him, by delivering
them out of the hands of their enemies, and not at all
towards the wicked whom he slew for their sake. The
Psalmist has taken this same view of the subject fre­
quently. Hear him: 4
4With the merciful, thou wilt
show thyself merciful.” [Ps. 18. 25.] 4
4All the paths
of the Lord are mercp ana truth, unto such as keep his
covenant and his testimonies.” [Ps; 25. 10.] 4
4Many
sorrows shall be to the wicked, but he that trusteth in
the Lord, mercy shall compass him about” [Ps. 32. 10.]
4
4
The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlast­
ing, upon them that fear him.” [Ps. 103. 17.\ This
tells precisely who the mercy of the Lord endurettv fat-
ersr to. It is “from everlasting to ev er la stin g , \rgon
I
90 U R IV E R S A LISM
them •
boat fear him.” Universalism teaches, that the
mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon
the wicked, just as much as upon those that fear God!
Isaiah testifies concerning the wicked, who were past -
reformation thus: 4
4Therefore he that made them, will
not have merct upon them, and he that formed them, toiS
show them no favor.” [Is. 97« 11«] How can a man be
saved, if God that formed him, shows him no favor!
5. Again: 4
4Let the wicked forsake his way, and the
unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return unto
the Lord, and he w ill have merct upon him.” [Is. 55.
7.] Universalism teaches, that God will have mercy
upon him, whether he returns from his evil way or not
Again says God: 4
4Therefore will I also deal in fubt,
mine eye shall not sp are, neither will I have pity, and
though they cry in mine ears with a loud voice, pet will
I not, hear them.” [Ezek. 8. 18.] * And I will dash
them one against another, even the lathers and the sons
together, saith the Lord. I will not pitt, nor spare,
nor have merct, but destroy them ” (Jer. 13. 14.)—
Though the Psalmist has truly said: 4
4Like as a father
pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear
him.” (Ps. 103. 13.) Yet it is also true, as testifies God
by the mouth of Solomon: 4
4Because I have called and
ye refused; I have stretched out my hand and no man
regarded; but ye have set at naught all my counsel, and
would none of my reproof; I also will laugh at your ca­
lamity; 1 will mock when your fear cometh; when your
fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction com­
eth as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh
upon you: then shall they call upon me, but I will not an­
sw e r ; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find
me.” (Prov. 1. 24-98.) And Paul informs us, that4
4He
that despised Moses’s law, died without merct, under
two, or three witnesses.” fHeb. 10. 28.) No man can
honestly read the above declarations of scripture, and
believe that the tender mercies of God, are over all his
works, in the Universalist acceptation of the word all.
James says: 4
4He shall havejudgment w
W
Y
vouX
.w asr
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . Si
them] that have showed no mercy;” (Jam. 3. IS.) and
the revelator speaks of some, who 4
4shall drink of the
wine of the wrath of Gforf, which is poured out without
mixture, into the cup of his indignation.” (Rev. 14. Id )
Yes: wrath without mixture: No mercy mingled with the
wrath of God, that shall be poured out upon the finally
incorrigible. It cannot be said that wrath is but ano­
ther name for disciplinary stripes; for such stripes are a
means of salvation; and John the Baptist exhorts the
Jews to Flee from the wrath to come;” (Math. 3. 7.)
not to flee from a means of salvation. Paul says, that
Christ4
4delivered usfrom the wrath to come;” (1 These.
1. 10,) and that4
4we shall be savedfrom wrath through
him.” [Rom. 5. 9.] Not saved by wrath which would
have been the case, had wrath meant disciplinary pun­
ishment, according to the theory of Universaiism. A t
ter all thes.e facts, if any man can believe that Psalm
145. 9, teaches Universaiism; he must believe it; that’s
all.
y fl Prov. 10. 24. The desire of the righteous
shall be granted.
1. The argument which Universalists build upon this
text is the following: All righteous men desire the sali­
vation of the whole human family; God has promised,
that the desire of the righteous shall be granted: there­
fore the whole human family will be saved. We shall
now off-set this argument, by building another according
to the same logic.
It is the desire of the righteous, that all men should
be saved from sin in this life, and become sober, honest,
and respectable citizens; God has promised that the de­
sire of the righteous shall be granted; therefore all men
are now saved from sin, and are sober, honest, and
spectable citizens! As far as argument is concerned we
are now even; whilst facts, and the bibte contradicton
both. We remark that this phrase, is a sort of
principle, and refers probably to the desire of
32 U N IV E R S A L IS M
eous concerning their own personal salvation; and not to
any thing, and every thing they may desire; forthis being
the case, we would be involved immediately in an inex­
tricable labyrinth of contradictions* The Saviour de­
clares, that 4
4many prophets and righteous men, have de­
sired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen
them ” [Math. 13* 17.] Ask a Universalist, if he desires
to make all the orthodox believe Universalism; and he
will answer yes. Now one of two conclusions are una­
voidable; either he is an unrighteous man; or has an un­
righteous theory!
% But U niversalism is against itself, in bringing
this text to its support. The first part of this text Uni-
versalists never quote: it reads thus: 4
4The fear of the
wicked it shall come upon him;” then comes in the other:
4
4but the desire of the righteous shall be granted*” Now
as Universalists give the last part of this text a univer­
sal application, the first part must necessarily have the
same latitude; and consequently every thing that the
wicked fear shall come upon them* And as hundreds
and thousands of the wicked fear endless damnation,
therefore it shall be their portion; for, (mark it!) God
says:4
4The pear of the wicked it shall come upon him?
Here Universalism has to give up the ghost, as far as
this text is concerned.
5 Prov. 11. 31. Behold the righteous shall be
• recompensed in the earth, much more the
wicked and the sinner.
This text is relied upon as proof that all men are re­
warded and punished m this life, to the full amount of
their just deserts. But we have any amount of testi­
mony on hand, to prove that this is not a correct con­
clusion.
. 1. The language of this text refutes such an idea.—»
How can the sinner be recompensed 4
4much more9than
the righteous, ifbothare recompensed to the/utf amount 7
Impossible*
A G A IN S T ITSELF. S3
2. This language was spoken under, and with refer*
ence to, the Jewish dispensation. Under that dispensa­
tion men, as a general thing, received a temporal rec*
ompence for their good, as well as their evil deeds, ac-
cording to the Law.
3. IfUniversal ists are resolved that this shall refer to
the Christian dispensation ; we will agree, for the sake of
argument: and then comes up, what part of the Christian
dispensation does it refer to ? The Saviour shall answer«
“And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense
thee, for thou shalt be recompensed, at the resurrco*
tion o f the ju st.” [Luke 14. 14.] But it may be asked
according to this, will they be recompensed on the earth?
Most certainly. Where can the resurrection take place,
but upon this earth where the dead are buried? Thus,
at the resurrection, the Lord himself declares, they shall
be recompensed, for there and then a crown ofrighteous­
ness shall be placed upon the heads of all the faithful;
and there ana then the wicked will receive their sen*
tence, and the seal of their everlasting banishment, from
the presence of the Lord and the glory of his power.—
This much must suffice for the present until we come to
treat upon the subject of conscience, when this question
shall be again resumed. Enough has been said to re­
deem this text from the service of Universalism, and to
prove that it is even against itself in marshaling Prov.
11. 31, into the field; for if the righteous are recompens­
ed in this life all that they deserve, as Universalism
teaches, and if the wicked are recompensed much more
than the righteous, as the text affirms; it follows hence
that the wicked are punished more than they deserve*
and therefore punished unjustly. Now if God will pun­
ish sinners unjustly in this world, what good reason can
Uoiversalists assign, why he may not continue to do the
same in eternity? For he that is unjust in little will
alsobe unjust in xfluch.
24 U N I V E R B A LISM
6 Is. 25.8. H e will swallow up death in vic-
•tory; and the Lord God will wipe awa^
tears from off all faces.
This text, although quoted with the greatest confi­
dence by the advocates of Universalism, will neverthe­
less disprove their doctrine. It is true,“ the Lord God
will wipe away tears from off all faces;” but all whose
faces? That’s the point. The remainder of this verse
will decide. 4lAnd the Lord God will wipe away tears
from off all faces, and the rebuke of his people shall he
take away from offall the earth.” Thus the all faces
has reference to the people of God. Universalists as­
sume, that allfaces, necessarily embrace the whole hu­
man family. Should this prove to be a mistake, then
the House that Ballou built must seek some other foun­
dation or fall. Let us see. The prophet says: “All
faces are turned into paleness.” [Jer. 30. 6.] Were the
faces of the entire human race turned into paleness, in
the days of Jeremiah, when millions upon millions of
them were not then in existence? Were the faces of
Enoch and Elijah who were then in heaven turned into
paleness? Answer ye. Again: “ Before their faces the
people shall be much pained, allfaces shall gather
blackness.” [Joel 2. 6.] If allfaces, in this verse, signi­
fy the whole human family, then it must refer to the
resurrection. This is too obvious to need proof. Now
if Is. 25.8. proves universal salvation, because tears
shall be wiped from off allfaces; then Joel 2. 6. proves
universal damnation at the resurrection: because, “ the
people shall be much pained; and all faces shall gather
blackness.” But Universalism is evidently against it­
self in quoting this prooftext, and applying it to the res­
urrection. Head the next verse: “ And it shall be
said in that day, [i. e. the day of the resurrection,] Lo,
this is our God, we have waited for him*, and he will save
us, this is the Lord, we have waited for him, we will be
glad and rejoice in his salvation.” Thus Universalists
re to admit%
in quoting this texv, 'ta*
A G A IN S T IT S E L F .
promise of salvation in the resurrection only those tha*.
have w ailed for the Lord« This also agrees with the
New Testam ent. “ To them that lookfo r him [or wait
for him,] shall he appear the second time, without sin
untosalvation.” [Heo. 7. 28.]
The next verse tells what will become of those who
have not waited for the Lord, and consequently who are
not his people. “ And Monb (i. e. the wicked) shall be
trodden dow n under him, even as straw is trodden down
for the dunghill; and he shall spread forth his hands in
the midst ofthem, as he that swimeth, spreadeth forth his
hands to swim; and he shall bring down their pride to-
?ither with the spoils of their hands.” (verses 10,11.)
his then, is all to take place at the resurrection of the
dead, according to the Universalist’s application of this
text. This is parallel also with Rev. 21. 4, which we
shall notice in due time. From what has already been
said upon this text, Universalisai must feel itself hand­
cuffed perfectly.
T k 4 5 .2 2 -2 4 . Look unto me and be ye sa*
• ved all the ends of the earth, for I am God
and besides me there is none else. I have sworn
by m yself: the word has gone out of my mouth in
righteousness, and shall not return ; that unto me
every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall
swear; surely shall one say, in the Lord have I
1. This is a very important text with Universalists;
but a more perfectly suicidal effort cannot be made by
the advocates of Universalism, than is made in bringing
this text to their support. This we shall prove to tne
entire satisfaction of every intelligent reader. And m
the first place, Universalists have to deny the King’s
translation, by expunging the word one, before the text
willcome within a thousand miles of Universalism. TVve
tmnshUkmof the Polyglott maigin, is also agaimA\3i6r
UNI VE R B A LISM
versalism« It reads thus: 4
4He shall say of me, in the
Lord is all righteousness and strength»” This does not
say who shall have this righteousness and strength, but
simply states that it is in the Lord. Hence Universal- \
ists have to deny two translations, and make a new one
of their own, before they can make Is. 45, harmonize
with their theory. But still it is a failure: The con-
'text disproves their doctrine. 4
4Look unto me and be
ye saved, all the ends of the earth.” Is not this condi­
tional? Universalism teaches that all the ends of the
earth shall be saved, whether they look unto the Lord or
not This is Universalism against itself iNo. 1.
2. Universalists admit that this prediction applies to
the resurrection state: this they have to do, as a matter
of course, or it does nothing for their theory, make the
most of it.
Let us now read the language immediately following
that above quoted. 4
4Even to him shall men come, [i. e.
in the resurrection state,] and all that are incensed
against him shall be ashamed.” Thus. some men are
to be incensed ; that is, enraged, or at enmity against
God in the resurrection state! Will such be holy and
happy? As some men are to be ashamed in the resurrec­
tion, will such characters be saved? No; for Paul says:
6
4Whosoever believeth on him, shall not be ashamed,”
(Rom. 9. 33.) Hence they are unbelievers in eternity,
and consequently condemned. Mark this, Universalism
against itself No. 2.
3. But worse and worse for this contradictory sys­
tem. By referring Isaiah 45. 23, to the resurrection
state; they admit that there, and then is to be the
judgment seat of Christ. Now hear the apostle Paul:
4
4But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost
thou set at naught thy brother? for we shall all*stand
before the Judgment Seat of Christ. (How do you
know Paul?) Because, 4
4it is written.” (Where? In
Is. 45. 23. What?) 4
4As I live, saith the Lord, every
knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess to God.”
(Rom. 14. 10, 11.) Thus the whole theory of Univer-
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . Mr
ralism Is effectually capsized by applying; this proof-text
as it does, to the resurrection state; for Paul quotes the
very same passage, and proves by it that we shall stand
before the Judgment Seat of Christ, at the very time
when this bowing and confessing shall take place.—
Put this down, Universalism against itself, No. 3.
4. But the last verse of this chapter is supposed to
teach Universalism. 4
4In the Lord shall all the seed of
Israel be justified, and shall gloryP This however can
only prove the salvation of all the Jewish nation, make
the most of it. But even this cannot be done. In order
to make this text tell any thing in favor of Universalism,
two things must be proved. 1. That shall is used in
an absolute or unconditional sense; or in other words,
that there is not a condition implied, as in the promise
toAbraham; and 2. T hat4
4All the seed of Israel’9means
the entire Jewish nation, as contradistinguished from
the Gentiles, without a single exception. If Universal-
ists undertake either, they will fail; whilst the negative
of both can be sustained. 1. The Jews were justified
in the days of the apostles invariably upon the conditions
of believing, and submitting to the gospel, and we have
no account of any Jew or Gentile being justified, only
upon these terms: hence there is a condition implied in
Isaiah’s shall, and must be understood the same as if he
had said: 44In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be
justified, and shall glory, providing they submit to the
Gospel.” This is its true signification. 2 .4
4All the seed
ofIsrael” does not mean the entire Jewish nation. Proof:
“Therefore the Lord was very angry with Israel, and
removed them out of his sight; there was none left but
the tribe of Judah only,and the Lord rejected all the
seed c f Israel, and afflicted them, and delivered them
into the hand of spoilers.” [2 Kings, 27.13,20.] Did the
Lord afflict, and deliver into the hand of spoilers, the en­
tire posterity of Abraham, when thousands df them had
died and gone to their graves centuries before, and mil­
lions of them were yet unborn t Thus all the seed ef
Israeldoes not necessarily mean any more titan ot a
UN I V E R B A L IS M
majority of the Jews living at any one time; and hence
if we take away every thing from this text, except the
part that teaches Universalism, it will be like the man’s
gtm, without lock, stock, or barrel.
8 k 46. 10. My counsel shall stand, and I
• will do ail my pleasure.
Is. 53.10. The pleasure of the Lord shall pros­
per in his hands.
Upon these two texts of scripture we remark: 1. That
God lias a counselandpleasure of his own, which belongs
exclusively to himself to perform, independent of the
agency of man. This counsel will stands and this plea­
sure will be performed* With respect to'this, it is decla­
red: u He doth according to his will in the army of hea­
ven, and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none
can stay his hand, or say unto him what doest thou?”
[Dan. 4. 35.] But % God has a counsel and pleasure
to perform, connected with the moral agency of man;
a part of which man himself is to perform, or it remains
undone. This 1 will prove. The Psalmist testifies:
u Thou art not a God that hast pleasure in wickedness»”
[Ps. 5. 4.] As God is unchangeable, his pleasure has
always been that wickedness should not exist; yet wick­
edness has existed for nearly six thousand years. Now,
God has not performed all his pleasure with reference
to the destruction of wickedness, for this reason; it re­
quires the co-operation of man to bring about this result.
If God absolutely performed all hispleasure^ in matters
with which man’s agency was connected, then it would
be an impossibility for man to commit sin, or to displease
God in any way. This conclusion is too obvious to be
called in question: The converse also, must be equally
self evident, that is, if man con, and actually does, dis­
please God, then the pleasure of the Lord is not always
done. Let us see: “ But with many of them God was
not well phased” [1. Cor. 10. 5.] Then it follows, that
he was displeased, which proves that his pleasure is not
AGAINST ITSEL F. 9*
im yn done. Again: “ Before his translation he had
thistestimony that he pleased God.” [Heb. 11. 5.] In
this case the pleasure of the Lord was performed; but it
vas owing to the obedience of Enoch. Again, says the
apostle: 44If any man draw back, my soul shall have no
fkasure in him.” [Heb. 10. 38.] In such a case the
pleasure o f the Lord would not be done, which is anoth­
erconfirmation of the truth of the above positions. 3.
The fact that the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in
the hands of Christ, is no proof that the pleasure of the
Lord shall prosper in the hands Of the wicked, or that
thewicked will all be saved. These are two very differ­
ent propositions. The pleasure of the Lord that Christ
had to perform did prosper iu his hands. Hence we
hear him say; “ Not my will but thine be done.” (Luke
22. 42.) This proof-text cannot embrace every thing in
the Universe which is according to the pleasure of the
Lord: if so, then Christ would long since have done away
with sin, and every species of evil in existence, for we
have it positively declared that the Lord has no pleasure
in them; and hence it must be according to his pleasure
for them to be done away.
Is. 53.11. H e shall see of the travail of his
soul, and shall be satisfied.
This text comes far short of proving Universalism. It
is assumed that all that Christ desired he should see
accomplished, and thus be satisfied. But this is not the
case. He desired the salvation of Jerusalem as a city,
when he said: u O Jerusalem, Jerusalem—how often
would I have gathered thy children together, even as a
hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye
would not.” (Math. 23. 37«) Christ was not satisfied in
this case; for he complains and says: ttYe will not come
unto me that you might have life.” (John 5. 40.) But did
he really desire them to come? Certainly. Hear him
entreat: 4
4Come unto me all ye that labor and art Y&fe
iy laden, and I will give you rest;9
9[Math. \1 .
30 (TNI V E R S AL1SM
they did not come, and consequently the Saviour was
not satisfied in the Universalist application of this text
Again: Christ desires the salvation of all men in this life,
as much as he does in the next; but is he satisfied? By
no means» This difficulty will stare Universalists in the
face; but they cannot dispose of it. Christ however is
satisfied with what he has done in bringing about, and
completing a plan of salvation; and in the out-come, if
but a few are saved, the Saviour will be satisfied: be­
cause no blame can be reflected upon him, and because
those who are not saved, might have been, had they been
disposed; and therefore their damnation is just» Thus:
“ He shall see of the travail of his soul, [i. e. those who
have believed and obeyed the gospel,] and shall be sat­
isfied.”
“
I Is. 55. 11. So shall my word be that
• goeth forth outof mymouth: it shall not
return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that
which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing
whereto I sent it
Universalists assume that this scripture proves their
doctrine, frorri the fact that God has sent forth his word
to effect the salvation of all men; and he declares that it
shall accomplish the thing for which he sent it» But we
shall soon discover that this argument, like most others,
has its foundation laid deep in sophistry. Look at the
first word in the text: 4
4SO shall my word be.” How?
Read the preceding verse, and it will tell. 4
4For AS
the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and
retumeth not thither; but watereth the earth, and ma-
keth it to bring forth and bud, that it may give seed to the
sower, and bread to the eater;” (Then comes in the text:)
* SO shall my word be.” How? 4
4AS the rain.” This
solves the whole difficulty. The rain comes down and
prepares the soil, that man may have seed to sow and
bread to eat; providing he attend to the ordinances of
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . ti
nature,—the ordinances of plowing, sowing, reaping,
gathering into his barn, and preparing for use. But the
rain brings bread to no man independent of his own ex*
ertion and co-operation. “So shall my word be,” says
God: “ it shall accomplish that which I please;” (upon
the same principle of the rain which comes down from
heaven;) it shall bring the blessings of the gospel within
the reach of man, and if he, by attending to the means
ofgrace, “ lay hold” of the rich boon of “ eternal life,”
he will be blessed; but if he, like the sluggard, will not
plow by reason of the cold, he shall beg m the immor­
tal harvest and have nothing. Thus Universcdism is
against itself in bringing into its service this declaration
of the prophet, and for this reason: it is admitted that
the word of God is sent forth to secure the future and
immortal salvation of man;—this shows in the first place,
that man’s future salvation was, and is in danger, which
Universalists deny; and as the word of God accomplish­
ed its object, upon the same principle that the rain gives
seed to the sower and bread to the eater, which is by
attending to means; then it follows, that none can enjoy
the future salvation, only such as comply with the con­
ditions which the word of God has enjoined.
1 | Lam. 3. 31. For the Lord will not
• cast off forever.
Is. 57. 16. For I will not contend forever, nei­
ther, will I be always wroth: for the spirit should
fitil before me, and the souls which I have made.
1. These two declarations of scripture have been re­
iterated by Universalist preachers and editors,.until they
are worn thread-bare, without once appealing to the
context to know who “the Lord will not cast offforever.”
In the chapter from which the first text is quoted, Jere­
miah is lamenting his own afflictions, and those of his
brethren, and says: “ the Lord will not cast off forever*
that is,such as return from theirevil way,and reforma \
89 UNI VERS ALI8M
the chastisements of the Lord. This is confirmed by
verse 25: “ The Lord is good unto them that wait for
him, to the soul that seeketh him.” But he changes the
subject at the close of that chapter, and. speaks of the
destiny of those who are the enemies of God, and of his
people: who were not subjects of this merciful chastise­
ment. 4
4Render unto them a recompense, O Lord,
according to the works of their hands; give them sorrow
of heart; thy curtoe upon them; persécute and destroy
them in anger from under the heavens of the Lord.”
[Lam. 3. 64-66.] This does not look much like Uni­
versalisai; To recompense them in anger, and with sor­
row of heart;—to curse them, and persecute them, and
destroy from under the heavens of the Lord! If this be
Universalism; it is it indeed, with a curse, persecution,
destruction, and a vengeance!
2. The context of the other quotation is also against
Universalism. When the prophet Isaiah testifies that
the Lord 4
4
will not contend forever,” he refers, (as does
Jeremiah,) to those who are chastised, and who are there­
by led to reformation; and not at all to the wicked, who
4
4wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived.”
He refers to these latter characters, in the following
verses, in contrast with those with whom the Lord woula
not contend forever. “But, [says he, showing the con­
trast,] the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it can­
not rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. There is
no peace to the wicked, saith my God.” [Verses 20, 21.]
If a man lives wicked all his life, he has no peace. If he
should die, and go into eternity wicked, still he has no
peace. If ho is raised from the dead wicked, (which he
will be, as we shall hereafter prove,) then he will con­
tinue to remain wicked; and continue like the troubled
sea when it cannot rest. Thus the context is against
Universalism in both cases, which is Universalism
against itself No. 1.
3. But we have Universalism against itself No. 2, in
trying to twist these two texts, so as to testify in its fa­
vor* By doing so, it is admitted thatforever, and “cast
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 3*
d fo rever” means to all eternity. It would not suit
their theory a t all, to say that forever means a limited
duration. .Let us try it. “ The Lord will not cast off
foralittle w h ile ” This will not work, for they contend
thatthe L o rd will cast off a little while, but he will not
costoffforever, i. e. eternally. Very good. Hear now
w
hat David say s to Solomon: “ If thou seek him he will
b
efound o f th ee, but i f thou forsake him, he will caet
Aee off fo rev er.” [1. Chron. 28. 9 .f That is, he will
castthee o ff to all eternitt, which Universalists admit
tobe the c o rre c t meaning of that phrase!
| £ £ E z e k . 33. 11. Say unto them: as I live
h M k m sa ith the Lord God; I have no pleasure
inthe d ea th o f the wicked.
1. This te x t is auoted by Universalists to prove that
none will be finally lost They must therefore neces­
sarily adm it th at the dying here spoken of, refers to an
eternal d e a th beyond the grave; as this is what they
quote it to disprove.
1 H ere U niversalism is against itself by this admis­
sion; for the remainder of the verse proves conclusively,
that the w icked would die that death, or be finally lost,
unless they returned. “ Turn ye, turn ye, from your evil
ways; for w h y w il l you d ie ?” They cannot evade this
difficulty by denying this death to refer to the future
state: for mark the feet; they start out upon the assump­
tion that God’s pleasure cannot be frustrated; and it is
hispleasure that the wicked should not die; hence it can­
not mean the death of the body, or a death in sin; for
Universalists admit that they do die these deaths ; it can­
not therefore have this meaning, os the pleasure of God
would thus be frustrated. There is no other ground left
that they can take, according to their views of the plea­
sure of God, butftto refer this death to the future state
of existence.
3. But we can prove that it refers to the tvxtote axA
eternaldeath, beyond this life, without the adm\&a\OYLell
32 UNIVERSALISM
60us concerning their own personal salvation; and not to
any thing, and every thing they may desire; forthis being
the case, we would be involved immediately in an inex­
tricable labyrinth of contradictions. The Saviour de­
clares, that4
4many prophets and righteous men, have de>
sired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen
them.” [Math. 13. 17.] Ask a Universalist, if he desires
to make all the orthodox believe Universalism; and he
will answer yes. Now one of two conclusions are una­
voidable; either he is an unrighteous man; or has an un­
righteous theory!
% But U niversalism is against itself, in bringing
this text to its support. The first part of this text Unt-
versalists never quote: it reads thus: 4
4The fear of the
wicked it shall come upon him;” then comes in the other:
4
4but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.” Now
as Universalists give the last part of this text a univer­
sal application, the first part must necessarily have the
same latitude; and consequently every thing that the
wicked fear shall come upon them. And as hundreds
and thousands of the wicked fear endless damnation,
therefore it shall be their portion; for, (mark it!) God
says:4
4The fear of the wicked it shall come upon himP
Here Universalism has to give up the ghost, as far as
this text is concerned.
5 Prov. 11, 31. Behold the righteous-shall be
• recompensed in the earth, much more the
wicked and the sinner.
This text is relied upon as proof that all men are re­
warded and punished in this life, to the full amount of
their just deserts. But we have any amount of testi­
mony on hand, to prove that this is not a correct con­
clusion.
. 1. The language of this text refutes such an idea.—
How can the sinner be recompensed 4
4much more” than
the righteous, ifbothare recompensed to ihefuU amount ?
Impossible,
A G A I N S T ITSELF. S3
2. This language was spoken under, and with refer­
ence to, the Jewi^i dispensation. Under that dispensa­
tion men, as a general thing, received a temporal reo
ompence for their good, as well as their evil deeds, ac­
cording to the Law.
3. If Universalists are resolved that this shall refer to
the Christian dispensation ; we will agree, for the sake of
argument : and then comes up, what part of the Christian
dispensation does it refer to ? The Saviour shall answer«
“And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense
thee, for thou shalt be recompensed, at the resurrec­
tion o f the ju st.” [Luke 14. 14.] But it may be asked
according to this, will they be recompensed on the earth?
Most certainly. Where can the resurrection take place,
but upon this earth where the dead are buried? Thus,
at the resurrection, the Lord himself declares, they shall
be recompensed, for there and then a crown ofrighteous­
ness shall be placed upon the heads of all the faithful;
and there and then the wicked will receive their sen­
tence, and the seal of their everlasting banishment, from
the presence of the Lord and the glory of his power.—
This much must suffice for the present until we come to
treat upon the subject of conscience, when this question
shall be again resumed. Enough has been said to re­
deem this text from the service of Universalism, and to
prove that it is even against itself in marshaling Prov.
11. 31, into the field; for if the righteous are recompens­
ed in this life all that they deserve, as Universalism
teaches, and if the wicked are recompensed much more
than the righteous, as the text affirms; it follows hence
that the wicked are punished more than they deserve,
and therefore punished unjustly. Now if God will pun­
ish sinners unjustly in this world, what good reason can
Universalists assign, why he may not continue to do the
same in eternity? For he that is unjust in little will
also be unjust in much.
U N IV E R S A L IS M
6 Is. 2 5 .8. H e will swallow up death in vic-
•tory; and the Lord God will wipe away
tears from off all faces*
This text, although quoted with the greatest confi­
dence by the advocates of Universalism, will neverthe­
less disprove their doctrine. It is true, “ the Lord God
will wipe away tears from off all faces;” but all whose
faces? That’s the point. The remainder of this verse
will decide. 4
<
And the Lord God will wipe away tears
from off all faces, and the rebuke of h is p e o p l e shall he
take away from offall the earth.” Thus the all faces
has reference to the people of God. Universalists as­
sume, that dUfacts, necessarily embrace the whole hu­
man family. Should this prove to be a mistake, then
the House that Ballou built must seek some other foun­
dation or fall. Let us see. The prophet says: “All
faces are turned into paleness.” [Jer. 30. 6.] Were the
faces ofthe entire human race turned into paleness, in
the days of Jeremiah, when millions upon millions of
them were not then in existence? Were the faces of
Enoch and Elijah who were then in heaven turned into
paleness? Answer ye. Again: “ Before their faces the
Eeople shall be much pained, allfaces shall gather
laiSkness.” [Joel 2. 6,1 If allfacesf in this verse, signi­
fy the whde human family, then it must refer to the
resurrection. This is too obvious to need proof. Now
if Is. 25.8. proves universal salvation, because tears
shall be wiped from off allfaces; then Joel 2. 6. proves
universal damnation at the resurrection: because, “ the
people shall be much pained; and all paces shall gather
blackness.” But Universalism is evidently against it­
self in quoting this proof-text, and applying it to the res­
urrection. Head the next verse: “ And it shall be
said in that day, [i. e. the day of the Resurrection,] Lo,
this is our God, we have waited for him*, and he will save
us, this is the Lord, we have waited for him, we will be
in his salvation.” Thus Universalists
quoting this text, that
A G A IN ST IT S E L F .
promise of salvation in the resurrection only those tha*.
nave waited for the Lord. This also agrees with die
New Testament. 4
4To them that lookfo r him [or wait
for him,] shall he appear the second time, without sin
unto salvation*” [Heb. 7. 28«]
The next verse tells what will become of those who
have not waited for the Lord, and consequently who are
not his people. 4
4And Moab (i. e. the wicked) shall be
trodden down under him, even as straw is trodden down
for the dunghill; and he shall spread forth his hands in
the midst of them, as he that swimeth, spreadeth forth his
hands to swim; and he shall bring down their pride to-
?ther with the spoils of their hands." (verses 10,11.)
his then, is all to take place at the resurrection of the
dead, according to the universalist’s application of this
text This is parallel also with Rev. 21. 4, which we
shall notice in due time. From what has already been
said upon this text, Universalism must feel itself hand­
cuffed perfectly.
Is. 45.22-24. Look unto me and be ye sa­
ved all the ends of the earth, for I am God
and besides me there is none else. I have sworn
by myself: the word has gone out of my mouth in
righteousness, and shall not return; that unto me
every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall
swear; surely shall one say, in the Lord have I
1. This is a very important text with Universalists;
but a more perfectly suicidal effort cannot be made by
the advocates of Universalism, than is made in bringing
this text to their support. This we shall prove to tne
entire satisfaction of every intelligent reader. And in
the first place, Universalists have to deny the King’s
translation, by expunging the word one, before the text
«ill come within a thousand miles of UnivemWsm. I t a
tauMrtarion o f the Folyglott margin, u alw agaiovskXhor
UNI VERBALISM
▼ersalism« <It reads thus: 4
4He shall say of me, in the
Lord is all righteousness and strength.” This dioes not
say who shall have this righteousness and strength, but
simply states that it is in the Lord. Hence Universal-
ists have to deny two translations, and make a new one
of their own, before they can make Is. 45, harmonize
^with their theory. But still it is a failure: The con-
'text disproves their doctrine. 4
4Look unto me and be
ye saved, all the ends of the earth.” Is not this condi­
tional? Universalism teaches that all the ends of the
earth shall be saved, whether they look unto the Lord or
not This is Universalism against itself, No. 1.
2. Universalists admit that this prediction applies to
the resurrection state: this they have to do, as a matter
of course, or it does nothing for their theory, make the
most of it.
Let us now read the language immediately following
that above quoted. 4
4Even to him shall men come, [i. e.
in the resurrection state,] and all that are incensed
against him shall be ashamed.” Thus, some men are
to be incensed ; that is, enraged, or at enmity against
God in the resurrection state! Will such be holy and
happy? As some men are to be ashamed in the resurrec­
tion, will such characters be saved? No; for Paul says:
4
4Whosoever believeth on him, shall not be ashamed.”
(Rom. 9. 33.) Hence they are unbelievers in eternity,
and consequently condemned. Mark this, Universalism
against itself, No. 2.
3. But worse and worse for this contradictory sys­
tem. By referring Isaiah 45. 23, to the resurrection
state; they admit that there, and then is to be the
ju d g m e n t s e a t of C h r is t . Now hear the apostle Paul:
4
4But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost
thou set at naught thy brother? for we shall all stand
before the Judgment Seat of Christ (How do you
know Paul?) Because, 4
4it is written.” (Where? In
Is. 45. 23. What?) 4
4As I live, saith the Lord, every
knee shall bow, and every tongue shall confess to God.”
(Rom, 14. 109 11.) Thus the whole theory of Uoiver-
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . ST
»alism is effectually capsized by applying this proof-text
as it does, to the resurrection state; for Paul quotes the
very same passage, and proves by it that we shall stand
( before the Judgment Seat of Christ, at the very time
when this bowing and confessing shall take place.—
Put this down, Universalism against itself, No* 3.
4. But the last verse of this chapter is supposed to
teach Universalism. “ In die Lord shall all the seed of
Israel be justified, and shall glory." This however can
only prove the salvation of all the Jewish nation, make
the most of it. But even this cannot be done. In order
to make this text tell any thing in favor of Universalism,
two things must be proved. 1. That shall is used in
an absolute or unconditional sense; or in other words,
that there b not a condition implied, as in the promise
J to Abraham; and 2. That “ All the seed of Israel” means
* the entire Jewish nation, as contradistinguished from
J the Gentiles, without a single exception. If Universal-
ists undertake either, they will fail; whilst the negative
of both can be sustained. 1. The Jews were justified
in the days of the apostles invariably upon the conditions
of believing, and submitting to the gospel, and we have
no account of any Jew or Gentile being justified, only
upon these terms: hence there is a condition implied in
Isaiah’s shall, and must be understood the same as if he
had said: “ In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be
justified, and shall glory, providing they submit to the
Gospel.” This is its true signification. 2. “ All the seed
ofIsrael” does not mean the entire Jewish nation. Proof:
“ Therefore the Lord was very angry with Israel, and
removed them out of his sight; there was none left but
the tribe of Judah only,and the Lord rejected all the
seed c f Israel, and afflicted them, and delivered them
into the hand of spoilers.” [2 Kings, 27.13,20.] Did the
j Lord afflict, and deliver into the hand of spoilers, the en-
I tire posterity of Abraham, when thousands of them had
! died and gone to their graves centuries before, and mil-
j lions of them were yet unborn? Thus all the seed of
I brad does not necessarily mean any more than oxa.
40 U N IV E R S A L IS M i
those who die in their sins! Before Universalis!* oan ^
get them saved, they must prove three things. ^
1. That God will give them laws in eternity» by which ^
they can be brought into his favor.
2. That those who die in their sins» will after that t?
)
possess the principle of volition; and ^
3. That tney will exercise that principle» in voluntary ^
obedience. If they possess the principle of volition» s.
how do they know but that they will voluntarily choose ^
to continue in sin, in the next world, as well as in this t ^
since 4
4wicked men and seducers wax worse and worse, ^
deceiving and being deceived.” [2 Tim. 3. 13.] ;
One passage more: When Christ sent forth his apos* ^
ties to preach to his people,—the Jews first, and then to ,
the Gentiles, the way by which they could be saved from .
their sins, he laid down this principle: 4
4He thatj believ- l
eth and is baptized shall be saved” (Mark 16. 16.) All
admit this to be a salvation from sin; and hence salvation ^
from sin is conditional. Query: Can a man be saved
in heaven, without being saved from sin! No. Thai *
heaven is conditional. But it is said this refers to time: ^
yes, and to eternity likewise. Now suppose a man is
saved from his sins according to the above principle»— *
lives saved all his lifetime, and dies saved; will he not J
remain saved eternally ? Yes. And upon the same £
principle, if a man is damned here in time, lives damned *
all his life, and dies damned, he will continue damned }
forever and ever. The same plan Universalists will *
*
adopt to get a man saved after he dies damned, I will {i
also adopt to get him damned after he dies saved. M
B t Math. 5 .1 7 ,1 8 . Think not that I am
• come to destroy the law or the prophets;
I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill; for verily
I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one
I
jot, or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the
aw, till all be fulfilled.
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 41
la connection with this text Universalists quote Rom.
13.10. 4
4Love is the fulfilling of the law*" The aigu»
sent then stands thus: The law here referred to, is uni-
Tersal and eternal; and as 4
4love is the fulfilling of the
law
,” and as one jot or tittle shall in no wise pass from
the law till all be fulfilled; it follows that all men uni*
Tersally will be brought to love God; for this Is the ful­
filling of the law. This, though considered among Uni-
rersalists. a strong argument, is nevertheless, like most
others, built upon a radical mistake. Two texts are jum-
M
ed together, having no reference to the same thing:
and this makes out the doctrine. Well, upon this prin­
ciple we will help Universalism, and prove that oxen as
well as men will be saved: 4
4Thou shall not muzzle the
ox that treadeth out the corn,” 4
4for of such is the king*
dom of heaven.” This is all scripture, just as much as
the other; and about as muchin connection.
In the first text, (Math. 5.17,18,) the Saviour testifies
that he came to fulfill the law and the prophets; that is,
he came to be the great antitype, to which all the sacri­
fices and offerings in the law pointed; and to verify the
C
redictions of all the prophets concerning himself; and
e also says, that 4
4not one jot or tittle shall pass from
the law till all be fulfilled:” that is, till all the types and
predictions were fulfilled which referred to him. This
nas no reference to any other character than the Lord
Jesus Christ, and he did fulfill every jot and tittle of that
lawin his own person. Hence that law is not left for us to
fulfill; for Christ himselfcame to fulfill it, and *he finished
thework God gave him to do,” (Jo. 17,4,) when he * took
it out of the way, nailing it to his cross.” (Col. 2. 14.)
But there is another law, which is commonly called the
moral law, or the law which binds moral obligations be­
tween man and man. 4
4Love is the fulfilling of this data/’
and every-man is morally bound to fulfill i t ; yet hun­
dreds and thousands break it, and live in the open vio­
lation of it, all their lives ; and consequently die and go
into eternity without fulfilling the law of love i
UniversaUsts contend that this law is eternal*(u e% esask-
41 u n i v e r s a l i s m
less,) of course then the penalty for disobeying it mus
also be eternal, (for the penalty, in one sense, is a com
ponent part of the law,) and thus Universalism i
against itself^
—perfectly stranded, and caught in th<
meshes of its own net. Yes, says Paul: “ If any mai
love not the Lord Jesus Christ, (i. e. does not fulfill the lav
of love,) let him be accursed when the Lord shall come;9
(1 Cor. 16. 22.) that is, let him receive the eternal pen
alty necessarily annexed to this eternal law.”
So Universalists loose much, but gain nothing by thi
argument; for James says: “ Whoso shall keep the whol
law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all;
(Jam. 2. 10.) Hence no individual can be sdid truly,an<
strictly to fulfill the Royal ¿at#, who ever breaks a singli
point; but Christ could be said to fulfill the law concern
ing him, from the fact that he never transgressed in i
single instance.
1 5. 44, 45. But I say unto you
love your enemies, bless them that curst
you ; do good to them that hate you ; and praj
for them that despitefully use you and persecutt
you; that you may be the children of your fathei
which is in heaven : for he maketh his sun to rist
on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain oi
the just, and on the unjust.
Universalists consider this passage strong ground ii
their favor; but it is as far from Universalism as the nortl
is from the south. The Saviour here refers only to tem
porafthings,and not to those things which relate to God’i
spiritual or moral government. This is clear, from th<
fact that he gives us a sample of God’s goodness to hi:
enemies: “ He maketh his sun to rise on the evil and or
the good, and sendeth rain on the just, and on the unjust.1
God is thus good to the wicked, in giving them th<
means by which they can procure a living: but suppos<
they will not cultivate the soft, and VcwptoNe each
A G A I N S T I T S E L F .
and latter rains, which God so richly pours down upon
theearth; will God keep them from starving? No, for
Solomon sa y s:4
4The sluggard will not plow by reason
of the cold, therefore he shall beg for bread in harvest
and have nothing«9
’ (Prov. 20. 4.) And under the gospel
dispensation, Paul taught the same doctrine: 4
4If any
man will not work neither shall he eat; (2 Thess. 3.10.)
and Paul would not pity him, neither would the Lord, if
he should starve to death. Thus we are to imitate our
father in heaven: we are to give our enemies food and
raiment, if they stand in need ; but if they will not re­
ceive them, it is their own fault if they perish, and not
ours. And here again Universalism is completely against
itself9by making the dealings of God in time, illustrative
of his dealings with reference to eternity. For upon this,
principle, just as certain as God will let a man starve,
unless' he attend to the means appointed in nature to
procure him a living, just so certain will he let him die
a second and eternal death, if he refuse to make use of
the means of grace, in order to secure the incorruptible
inheritance. This, Universalista are compelled to ad­
mit, or forever abandon their application of the above
text They tell us that God has always done good to
the wicked, and we are to imitate him in every thing.
Then accordingly, if we pour down fire and brimstone
upon our enemies’ heads, till we have consumed them
to ashes, we are doing them good! Should we send an
army upon them and hew them in pieces, as did God
with the Jews, we would only be giving them an exhibi­
tion of our long suffering and tender mercy! Should we
cause them even to 4
4die without mercy under two or
three witnesses and punish them with an everlasting
destruction ; it is but another name for goodness, phi­
lanthropy, or benevolence !
But Universalists would tell us, we were not doing
our enemies good, by pursuing this course ; yet accord-
S to their doctrine, God had a thousand times, and will
do the wicked good in this very way, it Vt\a V
a
lobe regarded.
4ft U N I V E R S A L I S M
Bat suppose we admit, (which we cheerfully do, in
one sense,) that God is good to the wicked in a moral
point of view, it does nothing for Universalism; for he is
jm tasgood now as he ever will be; yet, notwithstanding
his present goodness, thousands live, the most wretched
and miserable lives, add die the most degraded and in­
famous deaths, and thus go into eternity a heap of moral
corruption : and unless God should get more benevolent
in the future, than he is now, they must necessarily re­
main damned eternally.
God loves his enemies as long as there is any prospect
of their salvation: but when they become incorrigible, he
gives them over to hardness of heart, and a reprobate
mind, to believe a lie and be damned ; which he would
not do if he continued to lots them.
But 1. He. has no regard for such characters. Proof:
4
4I regarded them not, saith the Lord.” (Heb. 8. 9.)
2. He will show them no mercy. Proof: 4
4He that
made them,will not have mercy upon themP (Is. 27. M.)
3. They shall be forever debarred from his favor.—
Proof: 4
4He that formed them, will show them no fa­
vor.” (ibid.)
4. God hates them. Proof: 4
4Thou hatest all work­
ers of iniquity.” (Ps. 3. 5.) 4
4The Lord trieth the righte­
ous : but the wicked, and him that loveth violence, his
soul HATETH.” (Ps. 11. 3.)
3. He despises them. Proof:4
4Thou hast put them to
shame ; because God hath despised them.” (Ps. 33. 3.)
4
4And hath despised in the indignation of his anger, the
king and the priest.” [Lam. 2. 6.]
6. God abhors them. Proof: 4
4When the Lord saw it
he abhorred them.” [Deu. 32. 19.]
Here then we have the plain word of God, concerning
the wicked, who delight in working abominations ; that
he regards them not,—that he will not have mercy upon
them,—that he will show them nofavor,—that he hates
them,—that he despises them, and that he abhors them!1
.
I f this is die happiness of Universalism,4
4Gome not thou,
m y soul, into its secrets.”
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . If
M ath. 22. 30. For in the resurrection
* they neither marry nor are given in mar*
rage, but are as the angels o f God in heaven.
Luke 2 0 . 34-36. The children o f this world
marry, and are givep in marriage: but they which
shall b e accounted worthy to obtain that world,
andthe resurrection from the dead, neither marry
nor are given in marriage; neither can they die
anym ore, for they are equal unto the angels, and
are the children of God, being the children o f the
resurrection.
1. The principal point in these texts relied on as po*
ritive proof in favor of Universalism, is the phrase:—
“They are equal unto the angels, and are the children
f God, being the childreno fthe resurrection." But does
mu prove the docrinet Let us examine it. Who ore
“
they" that are equal unto theangels? and who are “they”
that are the children of God, Ming the children of the
resurrection ? This is an important inquiry; and one
upon which the whole issue must turn. Uuiversalists
take the position thatwthey" embrace the whole human
¡amity; rat the Saviour takes the ground that 03"“ they
»ho shall be accounted WORTHY to OBTAIN that
vorld" are the characters who “ are equal unto the
angels, and are the children of God, being the children
i>
f the resurrection.” Who shall we believe? “ They
that shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world,”
proves positively that some willnot be accounted worthy:
although some Universalists have tried in vain to recon*
rile such language, with die assumption that all will be
accounted worthy! But he who can get low enough, to
take such a position, is too far gone to be reasoned with.
Reader, how would you understand such a phrase as
this? “ They that were accounted worthy were admitted
into the feast.” W ould you not understand tivaXsome
navfug accounted worthy t Most certainly
m U N IV E R S A L IS M
if you possessed any thing like a reasonable share of that ^
most valuable article, called common sense. The Saviour ^
shows, that to be counted .worthy ofa thing, requires ac- ra­
tion and preparation on our part: 4
4Watch ye therefore, ~
and pray always, that ye m ay be accounted WORTHY.” ^
ELuke 21. 36.] Paul tells the* Thessalonians, that they >-
lad endured tribulation and persecution,4
4That ye may
[says he] he counted WORTHY of the kingdom of God, ^
lor which ye also suffer.” [2. Thes. 1. 5.] Thus the ^
phrase 4
4counted w orthy is proved by Christ and the r
apostles, to presuppose a personal preparation. This is '
Universalism against itself, No. 1. ^ ;.
r
2. We remarked that only some Universalists took
the above ground; for it is true that the most talented f
men amongst them do not take it; but they tell us, that ~
the phrase 4
4
counted worthy” is omitted by Matthew and
Mark in recording the same conversation; and mention*
ed only by Luke: hence it must have been a matter of r
little importance, or Matthew and Mark would not have ^
omitted it! But we now turn their own logic against ^
them, and let them hang, like Haman, upon the gallows ^
they have erected for Mordecai. The very originators of ^
this quibble, build their whole argument upon the phrase: ^
4
4they are the children of God, being the children of the ^
resurrection.” This however must have been a matter ^
of little or no importance, themselves being judges; for
Matthew and Mark have omitted that phrase altogether. ¡
J
*
Yes, Matthew and Mark have both omitted the very ^
foundation upon which they build their whole theory!— ^
Why not then be honest—be consistent, and give it up .
at onoe, andnot hang on to such a miserable theory which
requires them to resort to such miserable logic to sustain
it. This counts, Universalism against itself\ No. 2. ¡
j
3. But what is to be done with the phrase? 4
4they are
the children of God, being the children of the resurrec- ^
lion?” Does it prove Universalism. We shall show j
that it does not. And first we remark, that we believe it; j
notwithstanding Luke is alone; just as much as thpugh «
be bad Matthew, Mark and John to ta&Ynm. Bui sup- '
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . «r
pose we should admit that all mankind are to be chil­
dren of God, being the children of the resurrection; does
it follow that they will all be holy and happy? By no
means; for, according to Universalism, AU men now aro
the children of God: yet myriads have lived and died
sinners; guilty, miserable and condemned* Where then
goes their logic? for they can bo the children of God in
the resurrection, and be sinful and miserable, just upon
the same principle that they cau be here; and God can
then destroy them with fire and brimstone, just as con­
sistently as he once did his dear children who lived in
the city of Sodom. Mark this down, Universalism
against itself\ No. 3.
4. But Universalists are hereby informed, if they never
knew it before, that the scriptures speak of two resur*
rections ; one for^hose who die in Christ, and the other
for those who die in their sins: one for the just, and the
other for the unjust: one to life, and the other to con­
demnation. The first of these is to be obtained by the
Christian character, we form in this life; and is called
uthe resurrection of the dead” Paul suffered the loss
of all things, as he declares, 4
4If by any means I might
attain unto the resurrection of the dead.” [Ph. 3. 11.}—
»
This must have been the resurrection of the just, or the
M * resurrection, as lie would have obtained the other
without any exertion whatever to serve the Lord. It is
the same resurrection, for which Paul was striving, as the
one spoken of in Heb. 11. 35.4
4Women received their
children raised to life again; and others were tortured,
not accepting deliverance; that they m ight obtain a bet­
ter resurrection” This corresponds precisely with the
passage in Luke: 4
4They that shall be counted worthy to
OBTAIN that world, and the resurrection of the dead.”
Mark that word obtain^ and then read again Heb. 11. 35.
4
4others were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that
they might OBTAIN a better resurrection” The very
best thing Universalists have ever said upon this text, in
order to evade the difficulty which it man\feat\y
to their doctrine, is, that the better resurrection Sa t o t a
48 U N 1VER SA LISM
understood, as better than the resurrection of the children 1
1
spoken of in the first part of that verse. Admit it, and ^
what follows? Why, had they not held fast their integ- lE
rity, they would not have obtained a better resurrection *
than the children experienced; which was a resurrection *
to a state of sin, suffering, corruption and death* Uni- "
versalism against itself, No* 4*
Now since Paul labored to obtain 4
4the resurrection of *
*
the dead,” and others suffered cruel persecutions 4
4that *
they might obtaina better resurrection ”than the one they \
would have obtained, had they not suffered; it follows
hence*that6
4they which shall becounted worthy to obtain •
that world, and the resurrection” has reference only to *
the4
4resurrection oftheju s t” or the4
4
first resurrection,” *
which Paul labored toobtain; or the4
4betterresurrection,” t
which the martyrs considered they had4o obtain, by hold- *
ing out faithful to the end* Hence we read concerning *
them: f
c
4These all died in faith;” [Heb* 11. 12.] and for n
this reason,4
4God hath prepared for them a city,” [verse
16.] Not the city of Jerusalem, for that they did not \
obtain: but it was4
4a city which hath foundations, whose \
builder and maker is God.” [verse 10.] Those then,
who by their faithfulness obtain that city, and the better
resurrection, will be the ones who 4
4shall be counted
worthy to obtain that world and the resurrection of
the dead”
5. If Universalists could prove that all mankind would
be in the resurrection, here referred to; it would not fol­
low that all would be the children of the resurrection.—%
Mark that! The Saviour informs us, that4
4the good seed
are the children of the kingdom,” and the angels,4
4shall
gather out of his kingdom all things that offend and them
which do iniquity” [Math. 13* 88, 41.] Thus we dis­
cover, that some who are in the kingdom, are not the
good seed, and consequently are not the 4
4children o f the
kingdom ” On the same principle many may be in the
resurrection, who are not the children of thx resur-
RscnoNf because they are not the good seed or the
kingdom* Put thie down, Unwersolisnvagatast tadf**
No. 5.
A G A IN ST IT S E L F .
& But supposing we explain this whole passage as
Universalista are in the habit of doing with texts as point­
ed and as literal as this. 1. Then we will understand,
4
4this world” and 4
4that world,” to mean the Jewish and
Christian dispensations, as Universalists understand and
interpret Math. 12. 32. Mark that! (The very way
they will prove 4
4this world ” and 4
4that world” to mean
this, and the future state of existence:in this proof-text;
I can prove 44this world and that which is to come ”—
[Math. 12. 32] to mean the same thing, which kills Unt-
versalism dead.) 2. 4
4Neither marry nor are given in
marriage,” refers to the Catholic priests; and 4
4the resur­
rection from the dead,” which they are to obtain in order
to this state of celibacy, means either conversion, (as
Universalists interpret John 5. 29.) or being exalted to
the priest’s office. 3 .4
4They are equal unto the angels ”
4
4in heaven,” signifies that they are equal unto the Raman
nldiers in Jerusalem: (as Universalists interpret Math.
35. 31.) And 4. 4
4Neither can they die any more,”
means that the Catholic priests who are under the absolute
i dominion of the Pope, dare never renounce theirfaith,and
apostatize from Catholicism. I challenge Universalists
torefute this exposition; for if they do, they will refute
themselves: because it is only a fair sample of their own
| method of interpreting numerous passages which oppose
I their theory. This is Uñhersalism against itself, No. 6.
Here we have the complete advantage of these heroes,
and it is impossible for them to help themselves: but still
we will not take it The fair thing, and the most obvious
>meaning, is all we ask; and this we can, and will have.
7. It is admitted, according to the Universalist’s ap­
plication of this text, that4
4this world ” means this state
ofexistence. We will now quote another text with this
definition before u s:4
4As therefore the tares are gather*
i edand burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this
, sorU,” (Math. 13.40.) i. e. in the end of this state of ex­
igence, or the end of time! Then, (Universalists are
! compelled to admit,) will be the separation of the rwtav
xm from the wicked. UhieersaUsmagainst
5 E
to U N I V E RS A LI SM
8* They admit that the word resurrection^ means com- ijr
ing forth to the immortal state of existence. We admit |a
the same. Then we read:4
4They that have done good,
tshall come forth] to the resurrection oflife; and they that ^
tave done evil to the resurrection of damnation” (John ^
5.29.) Put this down, Umversalism against itself, l\o. 8. !jr
9. Angels* signify immortal spirits of light. This
%
they admit without hesitancy. Then \vc read:4
4For the
Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with hie J
mmgebj [not the Roman soldiers,] and then he shall re- ^
ward every man according to his works.” (Math. 16.27.) *j*
This counts Umversalism against itself\ No. 9. ,
10. They admit also that heaven means the immortal 2
state of bliss. This admission will forever prove fatal to 3
their theory; for the Saviour says: 4
4Rejoice and be ex*
ceedrag glad, for great is your reward in heaven/
[Math. 5. 12.] :te
Here then, we take oar leave of this "proof-text, and ?
leave it as it is, directly opposed to Umversalism, and
Umversalism opposed to itself ten times, in bringing it
into its service. ,
so
C Luke 2.10,11. And the angel said unto
them : fear not,for behold I bring you
glad tidings of great joy, which shall be to ail JjJ
people ; for unto you is bom this day in the city
of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. ^
1. It is one thing .to bring good tidings of great joy to ^
a man, and it is another thing for him to accept them.
This can be seen with half an eye. Twelve men are Jg
sentenced to the penitentiary during life ; but after a ^
few years the governor pardons them. A messenger is ^
despatched to bear the good news to the unhappy con-
victs. The prison doors fly open, and he proclaims in u
their ears, as did the angel: Behold I bring you good ti- <
dings of great joy which shall be to you twelve; for the ¡f3
governor has this day signed yout pardon, and you
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 61
hive the privilege of being released from your confine­
ment l Six of them gladly receive his word, obey the
call and come out of the prison : but the other six are
wholly indifferent about the matter, and contend that
the governor is so good and so benevolent, he would not
see them die there; but will finally come and carry them
oat; and hence it is no difference whether they go out or
not They consequently keep putting the matter off
until they die; and thus they never enjoy the benefit of
the glad tidings which were brought to them from the
governor. So the apostles were sent forth to bear good
tidings of great joy to all people« It was also foretold by
the prophet, and quoted by Paul: “ How beautiful are
the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace; and
bring gla d tidings of good things.” [Korn. 10. 15.] But
who ever heard of the apostles telling men, that these
good tidings of great joy which they preached, would
benefit them without their being accepted? Invariably
wherever they went they proclaimed this gospel, upon
the conditions that man would accept and obey .it. nut
no such good tidings as Universalists preach, was ever
proclaimed to sinners, by anyapostle or evangelist of the
Lord. *
2. But are Universalists certain that all people, means
the whole human family? Dare they risk tneir salvation
upon it? We will see: “ And the Lord shall scatter
thee among all people.” [Deu. 28. 64.] Does dUpeople
here signify the entire racp of Adam? If so, who were
these Jews that were to be scattered among them ?—
Again: “ The Jews gathered themselves together in their
cities, throughout all the provinces of the King Ahasue-
rus, to lay hand on such as sought their hurt; «nd no
man could withstand them, for the fear of them fell upon
oS people” [Est. 9. 2.] Did the fear of the Jews fall
opon the whole human family, when a thousandth part
of them was-not in existence? Thus we may have a
thousand probabilities that Universalism is false, where
there is one in its favor. Once.more: “ And for lY
vema­
jesty that hegave him, allpeople, nations.
m U N IV E ttS ALISM
trembled and feared before him.” [Dan. 5. 19.] Did the .
entire race of Adam, without an exception, fear and *
trembfe before Nebuchadnezzar? Did Universalists fear ;
and tremble before him? If not, then they are no part *
of all people; and therefore are not embraced in their :
UniversalSalvation ! Here, then Universalism must re- 1
sort to some other foundation, or be “ like a city broken *
down and without walls.”
19 John 1. 29. Behold die Lamb o f God
that taketh away the sin of the world.
I
1. This text comes far short of proving Universalism.
If Christ should take away but one mavis sins, it would
be the sin of the world, as it would not be the sin of the
church nor any thing else. He does not say, behold the
Lamb of God that taketh away all the sins of the world!
This would make the matter quite different. Sins are
taken away only by forgiveness; and as forgiveness ofsins
was preached by the apostles to all nations, at all times,
invariaUy, and only upon the condition of submitting
to the gospel, it follows that those who will not submit
to the gospel, but persist in their rebellion against God
until they die in their sins, will never be forgiven ; and
consequently the sins ofsuch individuals Christ will never
take away. Christ has plainly and positively taught
that some men’s sins will not be forgiven. “ If ye for­
give not men their trespasses, neither will your heavenly
father forgive your trespasses.” [Math. 6. 15.] Some
men live all their lives with bitter enmity in their hearts
towards their fellow men, and die without forgiving
them!. If the Saviour's words are to be believed, such
characters will not be forgiven; and consequently Christ
will not take away their sins.
But Universalists adrrtit enough, by quoting this
text, to condemn their theory forever. They must ne­
cessarily admit that “ the world ” means the whole human
family; for unless it mean this, why talk about it proving
Universalism. Having now Warned \kve *\^&<&aUon of
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 53
w orld? we will rend another text. u The times of
this ignorance God winked at, but now commands all
men every where to repent, because he hath appointed
aday, in the which he will judge the world,” i. e. the
whole hum an fa m ily. This judgment (mark it) was to
be sometime in the future: "w ill judge,” not has judged,
it judging and will judge the world! But the world,—
the whole human family, will be judged at some future
period: which cannot be till the resurrection ofthe dead,
when the entire posterity of Adam shall stand before the
judgment seat of Christ. This one admission not only
gives us •Universalism against itself but sweeps it into
nonentity; and its advocates must leave the sinking ship,
or go down with it to the bottom of the ocean.
A f f e John 4« 42. W e Jiave heard him our*
selves, and know that this is indeed the
Christ, the Saviour of the world.
I John 4. 14. W e have seen and do testify,
that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of
the world.
1. Universalists quote these texts, and then ask with
great assurance: Can Christ be the Saviour of the world,
and the world not be saved? We answer yes, and we
will make Universalists admit it, in spite of all they can
say or do. Christ was the Saviour of the world 1800
years ago, (for the text speaks of him thus in the present
tense.) Yet the world was not then saved. He has
been the Saviour of the world ever since, and there has
never been a time when the* world was saved; and
upon the same principle, he may be the Saviour of the
world till the day of eternity, and the world never be
laved. If Christ can be the Saviour of the world at one
time, and the world not saved, it will require more logic
than Universalists possess, to prove that he may not be
the Saviour of the world at any other, and at a\\ o\5aet
hoes, and y e t the world remain unsaved* If die fact
B *
54 UN I VERBALISM
that Christ is the Saviour of the world will ever save the
world, why will it not do the work at once and have
done with it.
2. Universalists admit that none are now saved,(not­
withstanding Christ is now the Saviour of the world,)
only such as submit to his government; and as 4
4Jesus
Christ is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever,” [Heb,
13. 8.] it follows that none will ever be saved, only on
this principle. And as in eternity faith is swallowed up
in sight; and obedience to the commands of the gospel
cannot be attended to ; it follows that they cannot be
saved there. I am aware that some Universalists con­
tend that the commands which are not obeyed here, will
be obeyed in the future state of being. This howevei
is impossible. Will the wicked be baptized, and eat the
Lorafs supper in eternity? Will they 4
4meet together on
the first day of the week ” in eternity, and 4
4exhort one
another, and so much the more as they see the day ap­
proaching?” Will they 4
4feed the hungry, and clothe
the naked? in eternity?! Will they 4
4visit thefatherless
and the widows1
9in eternity?!! And finally ; will they
“ work while it is called to-day” in eternity?!! Does the
apostle refer to eternity, when he says,4
4now is the ac­
cepted time, and now is the day of salvation?”
3. 4
4The Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the
world.” Universalists ask: Will not Christ do the work
for which he was sent ? We ask in return : Was nol
Christ sent to make all men love one another in this
life ? Yes. Do they love one another? No. Christ
came to cause many things to be done, that are not done,
nor never will be to all eternity. For instance: he came
to make men love their wives; yet some men do not love
their wives, till they go into eternity: and they cannot
love them there; for that relation will no more be known:
4
4they will neither marry nor be given in marriage ?
hence it will never be done at all. Again we read;
4
4For the Son of man is come to seek and save that which
was lost? [Luke 19. 10.] Did Christ come to save men
with respect to eternity, or on\y with, to time 1
A G A IN S T ITSELF, 55
Ifyou say w ith respect to time only: then those passages
w
hichspeak o f Christ as the Saviour of the world, will
not apply to eternity, and consequently have nothing to
dowith U niversalism , for all know that the world is not
ared in tim e You may mark this down, Universalism
egamst its e lf, No. 1.
But if you say he came to save men with respect to
eternity; th e n they were lost with respect to eternity,
forhe came to seek and to save that which was lost.—
And as they w ere eternally lost without Christ coming
tosave them , then it must have been on account of their
sms; and if m en can act here in time, so as to lose
themselves in eternity: then,upon the same principle, if
they are saved in eternity, it must be by their conduct
mthis life. Thus the old ship BALLOU runs aground
justhere. T his counts Universalism against itself No. 2.
4* As C hrist came the first time to save men from
their sins, they must be saved here in this life, or remain
lost forever; for he wilt come the second time to judge
the world, and not to save it. The Father will not send
hisSon tw ice upon the same errand, be assured; and those
who put off being saved from their sins, till the Lord
comes to raise the dead and judge the world, wiH find
themselves eternally too late, unless it so turns out that
Christ comes twice for the same thing.
5. As regards those passages which speak of Christ as
the Saviour of the world: we have them all explained by
another text: “ For God sent not his son into the world
to condemn the world; but that the world through him
might be saved,” [John 3. 17.] The word “ m ight? ex­
plains the whole matter. This we understand to be the
sense, in which Christ is the Saviour of the world.—
Christ has made an atonement, and ordained a system
of salvation by which the world might be saved, if they
would. The word m ight, shows that men have an op­
portunity to be saved, and that they may be, if they
Choose; and also, that they may be damned if they prefer
h. The word might is frequently used in this sense«—
The Saviour says: “Forjudgment am 1 come into tins
36 UNI VERBALISM
world; that they which see notm ight see, and that they
which see might be made blind.’? [John 9. 39*].-'
This will suffice for the present, to show the candid
reader, that men may be saved if they choose; and in this
sense only is Christ the Saviour of the world.
6 B "fl John 6.39. And this is the Father’s will
#that sent me, that of all which he hath
given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise
it up at the last day.
Before this can be made to favor Universalism, two
things must be proved: 1. That it is not in the power
of man to frustrate the will of God; And 2. That the
whole human family are given to Christ in the sense here
intended. Neither of these can be proved.
1. The will of God is not always done. Proof: “ This
is the will of God even yoar sanctification, that ye should
abstain ivon\^fornication;—that no man go beyond and
defraud his brother in any matter.” [1 Thess. 4. 3-6.] Is
the will of God always done in these respects? Again:
“Pray without ceasing, and in every thing give thanks;
for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.”
[1 Thess. 5. 17,18.1 Dare Universalists read this text,
and say, the will of God is always done? The reason
why the will ofGod is not always done; is because it be­
longs to man to do, and he does just as he feels disposed.
The Saviour says: “Not every one that sayeth unto me
Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but
he that doeth the will ofm y Father which is in heaven.”
[Math. 7.21.] “Whosoever shall do the will ofm y Fathr
er which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister,
and mother.” [Math. 12. 50.] “ The world passeth
away, and the lusts thereof; but he that doeth the will o f
Gody abideth forever.” [1 Jo. 2.17.] “ For so is the will
of God) that with well doing, ye may put to silence the
ignorance of foolish men.” [1 Pet. 2. 15.] “ Now we
khow that God heareth not sinners*, but if any maq be a
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 8T
*
* ^ and doeth his w ill; him he hear-
«How often w o u ld I have gathered the children togeth­
er,as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings; and
ye would n o t .” [Luke 13. 34.] From these texts we
discover, th at as Far as concerns the happiness of man,
the will of G od is conditional, and depends upon human
conduct for its accomplishment.
2. Are the whole human family given to Christ in the
sense of this text. We think not. Who is it that is
K
’ en to Christ, whom he will raise up at the last day?
e context will decide: “And this is the will of him
that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and
Mieveth on him, may have everlasting life, and I will
raisehim up at the last day.” [Verde 40.] Thus the text
has reference to those who are given to Christ in a spir­
itual sense, which are believers, and not the world. Proof:
«1 pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast
«ten me.” [John 17. 9.] Thus we learn that believers
«re the ones who are given to Christ in a spiritual sense,
and he will raise such up at the last day, if they hold
out faithful in doing the will of God. (See also exami­
nation of Math. 1. 21.)
But Universalism is against itselfin two respects, inits
application of this text. 1. It is admitted that lose re­
fers to eternity, and means an endless separation from
God. This must be its meaning negatively, for they
quote it to disprove that very doctrine! It cannot mean
thedestruction ofJerusalem, for then Universalists would
be building up with one hand, and tearing down with
the other, as they acknowledge many were lost at that
liege. Hence it must necessarily refer to eternity.—
Now is it not a little singular,, that the Saviour should
keep talking about men being eternally lost; and that it
was the will of the father that none should be thus eter­
nally lost; and in the next verse he tells them, that in or­
der that the will of God may stand; and that they may
escape being finally lost, they must believe on the ^on\
sadpromises to raise such characters up to Yt\mse\i oX
The Saviour says to Jerusalem:
K UNIVERSALISM
the last day;—is it not singular, I ask, that the Saviour
should thus talk about men being eternally lost, as Univer-
salists have to admit he did, and yet such an idea never
entered into the mind of God; and no sinner was ever ia
any danger of such a thing, since the foundation of the
world! But as they thus admit the word lose to signify
an eternal separation from God; we will read another
text with this definition: 4
4Those that thou hast given
me I have kept: and none of them is lost, but the son of
perdition” HIo. 17. 12.] Notwithstanding the text,up­
on which Universalists build their doctrine, declares,
that it was the Father’s will that of all he had given
Christ, none should be eternally lost: Yet the Saviour
declares as above quoted, that out of the number given
him one was lost,—the son of perdition, and in another
place we read that he went 4
4to his own place,” [Ac. 1.
25.] and the Saviour declares concerning him: 44Good
were it for that man, if he had never been born.” [Mark
ley admit that 4
4the last day,” refers to the res­
urrection. Grant it. Then we read:4
4The word that I
have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day.”
(Jo. 12. 48.) This admission proves the judgment day,
at the resurrection of the dead: and thus Universalists
renounce their doctrine, every time they quote this text
to sustain it.
6 B ¿ 2 John 12. 32. And I, if I be lifted up
^ * * * from the earth, will draw all men unto
me.
John 6.37. All that the Father giveth me shall
come to m e; and him that cometh to me I will
in no wise cast out.
. Before Universalists can make these texts favor their
doctrine, they must prove six things.
1. That the draw ing here referred to is compulsatory.
2. That it is to be acconu>lished in eternity, and not
' time.
A G A IN ST IT S E L F ..
I That the lifting up of Christ from the earth, here
erred to, has not yet been accomplished, and will not
till the resurrection of the dead*
i. That all men means the whole human family.
5. That the whole human family are given to'Christ
the sense of this second text: and
6. That “will draw” and “shall come” are uncondi-
nai; or that there is not an i f implied, as in the pro*
se to Abraham.
This must all be done before these texts will favor
liversalism; and a failure in any one of these six points
stroys their argument. Let us now examine them:
1. The word draw is used in the sense of invite, and
ace cannot be compulsatory. We have this word ex-
lined by the Saviour: “ No man can come unto me
cept the Father which hath sent me draw him.” [Jo. 6.
.] Now how is this drawing to be effected? Read
\ next verse: “ It is written in the prophets: And they
ill all be taught of God. Every man therefore that
thheard, and hath learned of the father, cometh unto
1
. ” Thus it is that Christ draws men,—by teaching,
ling, and inviting them unto himself.
2. This drenring is to be effected here in time; because
re, men are to be taught of God, and learn the will of
*father; and
3. Because Christ has been already lifted up from the
rth, ever since he rose from the dead. It cannot mean
it Christ will be lifted up from the earth at the resur-
ition of the dead; for then he will come from heaven,
t to be lifted up; but to lift up the saints, or those that
> father hath drawn to him by teaching; as he de-.
res: “ No man can come to me except the father
lich hath sent me draw him, and I will raise him up
the last d a y”
i. A ll men does not necessarily mean the whole hu-
n family. Universalists cannot prove that it has this
aning in any passage in the bible, except when it
>aks of God as the creator of all men. A few
J] be given*
60 U N I V E R S A L I S M
“And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake."
[Math. 10. 22.1 Did the entire race of Adam hate the
apostles? Will Universalists acknowledge that they
hate the apostles ? If not, will they give up their 'ism ?
“All men counted John, that he was a prophet." [Mark
11. 32.] Did the whole human family count John a
prophet; when not one millionth part of them ever saw
nim, or knew any thing about him. Once more: “ Many
of them also which used curious arts, brought their books
together, and burned them before all men*” [Ac. 19.19.]
Did Universalists see them bum their books? If not,
then they are no part of all men, and will not therefore
be drawn to Christ
5. The whole human family are not given to him in
the sense here intended. If the phrase, “ all that the
Father giveth me,” is to be understood in the sense of
dominion and power, and not in the sense of spiritual re­
lation, then the cattle upon a thousand hills will conse­
quently be saved : for they belong to the Father; and
Christ says: “All things that the Father hath are mine.”
[Jo. 17. 18.] (See also examination of John 6. 39.)
6. “ TFitf” is frequently used conditjkftiaJly; and so it
undoubtedly is in this case: “ I will drife#hB men unto
me,” i. e. if they will come. (See 1 Sam. 23. 11-13.)
“ Shall come? is frequently used Iri’tWseftse of may
came, or shall have the privilege o fcarding xfthey choose.
This is a common mode of speech. The father said to
his two sons, “ Stay here till to-morrow, and then you
shall come to the feast,” i. e. you may come. Thus we
understai&1he text; “All that the Father giveth me shall
come to me,” i. e. may come if they are disposed; and in
Revelations, we have a corresponding text: “ Let him
that is athirst come, and whosoever wUl, let him take the
water of life freely.” [Rev. 22. 17.]
But suppose we should admit that Christ will be lifted
up at the general resurrection; and that there, and then,
he will draw all men unto him; and that draw is to be
understood as compuisatory; and that all men means the
whole human fam ily, what will UniveTsaUsts by it?
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . •1
Just nothing at all; for they will then be drawn before
the judgment seat; and punished (if they belong with the
^ with an everlasting destruction from his presence,
om the glory of his power. But says one: those
that come to him, he declares, he will in no wise cast out.
True enough: but coming, and being drawed, or drag­
ged to him, are two things vastly different. He does
not say: He that is dragged to me, I will in no wise cast
out. But uhe that comes;” showing plainly that it is con-
I ditional; and here again we have Universalism against
; itself; for whilst one system teaches, that those who come
I to Christ, will be saved; the other teaches, that they will
I be saved whether they come or not,—unconditionally.
Tes; if they will not come, no difference, only wait till
i the resurrection, and Christ will draw them, or drag
\ them to him, which will answer the purpose just as well,
| as though they had voluntarily come to him.
I
A John 17. 2, 3. As thou hast given him
I power over all flesh, that he should give
i eternal life to as many as thou hast given him;
[ and this is life eternal, that they might know thee,
. the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou
| hast sent.
Before Universalists can claim this text, they must
prove five things.
1. That all desk means the whole human family and
nothing else. This they cannot do,for oilflesh embraces
r beasts, as well as men. Proof: ‘‘And of every living
; thing of allfleshy two of every sort, shalt thou bring into
[ the ark,—offow ls after their kind, and of cattle after their
I kind; and of every creeping thing.of the earth after his
kind." (Gen. 6. 19, 20.) Thus, if the “ ailflesh,” of this
text, is to have eternal life, we will have the compnny
offowls, cattle, and creeping things in heaven; for Christ
has power over all flesh in thievery sense; fox V
vevrov.
*AUpouter is given onto me in heaven, and \n eaxw*
F
UNI VERS ALISM
62
trembled and feared before him.9
’ [Dan. 5. 19.] Did the ,r
entire race of Adam, without an exception, fear and *
tremble before Nebuchadnezzar! Did Universalist* fear
and tremble before him? If not, then they are no part "r
of all people ; and therefore are not embraced in their ^
Universal Salvation ! Here, then Universalism must re* **
sort to some other foundation, or be “ like a city broken *
*
down and without walls."
19. John 1. 29. Behold the Lamb o f God
that taketh away the sin of the world.
;tie
1. This text comes far short of proving Universalism. ^
If Christ should take away but one man's sins, it would ;^
be the sin of the world, as it would not be the sin of the *
*
church nor any thing else. He does not say, behold the .
Lamb of God that taketh away all the sins of the world! I
This would make the matter quite different. Sins are v
*
taken away only by forgiveness;and as forgiveness ofsins it
was preached by the apostles to all nations, at all times, ^
invariably, and only upon the condition of submitting ^
to the gospel, it follows that those who will not submit '
to the gospel, but persist in their rebellion against God "
until they die in their sins, will never be forgiven ; and ,
consequently the sins ofsuch individuals Christ will never s
take away. Christ has plainly and positively taught *
that some men’s sins will not be forgiven. 4
4If ye for-
tive not men their trespasses, neither will your heavenly *
ither forgive your trespasses.” [Math. 6. 15.] Some *
men live all their lives with bitter enmity in their hearts \
towards their fellow men, and die without forgiving '
them!* If the Saviour's words are to be believed, such j
characters will not be forgiven; and consequently Christ '!
will not take away their sins. j
2. But Universalista admit enough, by quoting this ■
text, to condemn their theory forever. They must ne­
cessarily admit that6
4the world " means the whole human ]
family; for unless it mean this, why talk about it proving
Universalism. Having now learned the signification of !
AGA IN ST IT S E L F . 53
4
6the w orld? we will read another text. u The times of
this ignorance God winked at, but now commands all
men every where to repent, because he hath appointed
a day, in the which he will judge the world,” i. e. the
whole hum an fam ily. This judgment (mark it) was to
be sometime in the future: “will judge,” not has judged,
is judging and will judge the world! But the worlds—
the whole human family, will be judged at some future
period: which cannot be till the resurrection ofthedead^
when the entire posterity of Adam shall stand before the
judgment seat of Christ. This one admission not only
gives us Universalism against itself but sweeps it into
nonentity; and its advocates must leave the sinking ship,
or go down with it to the bottom of the ocean.
John 4« 42. W e bave heard him our*
selves, and know that this is indeed the
Christ, the Saviour of the world.
1 John 4. 14. W e have seen and do testify,
that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of
the world.
1. Universalists quote these texts, and then ask with
great assurance: Can Christ be the Saviour of the world,
and the world not be saved? We answer yes, and we
will make Universalists admit it, in spite of all they can
say or do. Christ was the Saviour of the world 1800
years ago, (for the text speaks of him thus in the present
tense.) Yet the world was not then saved. He has
been the Saviour of the world ever since, and there has
never been a time when the- world was saved; and
upon the same principle, he may be the Saviour of the
world till the day of eternity, and the world never be
saved. If Christ can be the Saviour of the world at one
time, and the world not saved, it will require more logic
than Universalists possess, to prove that he may not be
the Saviour of the world at any other, and at aWofafet
time* andy e t the world remain unsaved* If ffcve fa.c\
E*
M UNI VERBALISM
that Christ is the Saviourof the world will ever save
world, why will it not do the work at once and h
done with it.
2. Universalists admit that none are now saved,(
withstanding Christ is now the Saviour of the woi
only such as submit to his government; and as 4
4Ji
Christ is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever,1
” [£
13. 8.] it follows that none will ever be saved, onl)
this principle* And as in eternity faith is swallowec
in sight; and obedience to the commands of the go
cannot be attended to ; it follows that they canno
saved there. I am aware that some Universalists <
tend that the commands which are not obeyed here,
be obeyed in the future state of being. This howc
is impossible. Will the wicked be baptized, and eat
Lord?s supper in eternity? Will they “ meet togethe
the first day of the week ” in eternity, and 4
4exhort
anotiier, and so much the more as they see the day
proaching?” Will they 4
4feed the hungry, and cm
the naked,7
3in eternity?! Will they “ visit thefather
and the widows1
3in eternity?!! And finally ; will t
4
4work while it is called to-day v in eternity?!! Does
apostle refer to eternity, when he says,4
4now is the
cepted time, and now is the day of salvation?”
3. 4
4The Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of
world.” Universalists ask: Will not Christ do the w
for which he was sent ? We ask in return : Was
Christ sent to make all men love one another in
life ? Yes* Do they love one another? No. Cl
came to cause many things to be done, that are not d<
nor never will be to all eternity. For instance: he c
j
to make men love their wives; yet some men do not 1
their wives, till they go into eternity: and they car
love them there; for that relation will no more be kno
4
4they will neither marry nor be given in marriag
hence it will never be done at all. Again we re
4
4For the Son of man is come to seek and save that wl
was lost” [Luke 19. 10.] Did Christ come to save i
with respect to eternity, or on\y wvCh respect to tir
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 55
*
\\ If you say with respect to time only: then those passages
>
j which speak of Christ as the Saviour of the world, will
not apply to eternity, and consequently have nothing to
\\ do witn Universalism, for all know that the world is not
saved in time You may mark this down, Universalism
against itself) No* 1*
But if you say he came to save men with respect to
eternity; then they were lost with respect to eternity,
for he came to seek and to save that which was lost—
And as they were eternally lost without Christ coming
*
■ to save them, then it must have been on account of their
& sins; and if men can act here in time, so as to lose
u
i themselves in eternity: then,upon the same principle, if
they are saved in eternity, it must be by their conduct
t m this life. Thus the old ship BALLOU runs aground
justhere. This counts Universalism against itself. No. 2.
i 4. As Christ came the first time to save men from
> their sins, they must be saved here in this life, or remain
lost forever; for he will come the second time to judge
the world, and not to save it. The Father will not send
Us Son twice upon the same errand, be assured; and those
who put off being saved from their sins, till the Lord
comes to raise the dead and judge the world, will find
themselves eternally too late, unless it so turns out that
Christ comes twice for the same thing.
5 . As regards those passages which speak of Christ as
the Saviour of the world: we have them all explained by
another text: “ For God sent not his son into the world
to condemn the world; but that the world through him
m ight be saved” [John 3. 17.] The word“ m ight” ex­
plains the whole matter. This we understand to be the
sense, in which Christ is the Saviour of the world.—
Christ has made an atonement, and ordained a system
of salvation by which the world might be saved, if they
would. The word m ight, shows that men have an op­
portunity to be saved, and that they may be, if they
éhoose; and also, that they may be damned if they prefer
it The word might is frequently used in this sense.—
The Saviour says: “Forjudgment am 1 come into than
56 U N IV E R S A L IS M
world; that they which see notigfeAfsee, and that they
which seem^gAif be made blind.’? [John 9* 39.]
This will suffice for the present, to show the candid
reader, that men may be saved if they choose; and in this
sense only is Christ the Saviour of the. world.
"■ John 6.39. And this is the Father’s will
«■ •that sent me, that of all which he hath
given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise
it up at the last day.
Before this can be made to favor Unlversalism, two
things must be proved: 1. That it is not in the power
of man to frustrate the will of God; And 2. That the
whole human family are given to Christ in the sense here
intended. Neither of these can be proved.
1 . The will of God is not always done. Proof: “ This
is the will of God even yonr sanctification, that ye should
abstain frorn^fornication;—that no man go beyond and
defraud his brother in any matter.” [1 Thess. 4. 3-6.] Is
the will of God always done in these respects? Again:
“Pray without ceasing, and in every thing give thanks;
for this is the will of God inChrist Jesus concerning you.”
[1 Thess. 5. 17,18.] Dare Universalists read this text,
and say, the will of God is always done? The reason
why the will ofGod is not always done; is because it be­
longs to man to do, and he does just as he feels disposed.
The Saviour says: “ Not every one that sayeth unto me
Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but
he that doeth the will o fm y Father which is in heaven.”
[Math. 7.2 1 .] “Whosoever shall do the will o fm y Fath­
er which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister,
and mother.” [Math. 12 . 50.] “ The world passeth
away, and the lusts thereof; buthe that doeth the will of
Gody abideth forever.” [1 Jo. 2.17.] “ For so is the wUl
of Cfody that with wkll doing, ye may put to silence the
ignorance of foolish men.” [1 Pet. 2 . 15.] “ Now we
kqow that God heareth not sinners; but if any mag be a
A G A IN S T I T S B L F .
worshiper of God, and doeth his w ill; him he hear-
eth.” [John 9. 31.] The Saviour says to Jerusalem:
aHow often would I have gathered the children togeth­
er, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings; and
ye would not.” [Luke 13. 34.] From these texts we
discover, that as far as concerns the happiness of man,
the will of God is conditional, and depends upon human
conduct for its accomplishment.
2. Are the whole human family given to Christ in the
sense of this text. We think not. Who is it that is
S
' ren to Christ, whom he will raise up at the last day?
ie context will decide: “And this is the will of him
that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and
believeth on him, may have everlasting life, and I will
raise him up at the last day.” [Verte 40.] Thus the text
has reference to those who are given to Christ in a spir­
itual sense, which are believers, and not theworld. Proof:
tfI pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast
given me.” [John 17. 9.] Thus we learn that believers
are the ones who are given to Christ in a spiritual sense,
and he will raise such up at the last day, if they hold
out faithful in doing the will of God. (See also exami­
nation of Math. 1 . 2 1 .)
But Universalism is against itselfm two respects, inits
application of this text. 1 . It is admitted that lose re­
fers to eternity, and means an endless separation from
God. This must be its meaning negatively, for they
quote it to disprove that very doctrine! It cannot mean
diedestruction ofJerusalem, for then Universalists would
be building up with one hand, and tearing down with
the other, as they acknowledge many were lost at that
siege. Hence it must necessarily refer to eternity.-—
Now is it not a little singular,, that the Saviour should
keep talking about men being eternally lost; and that it
was the will of the father that none should be thus eter­
nally lost; and in the next verse he tells them, that in or­
der that the will of God may stand; and that they may
escape being finally lost, they must believe on the
andpromises to raise such characters up to YumseM oX
06 UNIVERSALISM
the lost day;—is it not singular, I ask, that the Saviour .5
should thus talk about men being eternally lest, as Univer* ^
salists have to admit he did, and yet such an idea never %
entered into the mind of God; and no sinner was ever io j
any danger of such a thing, since the foundation of the jj
world! But as they thus admit the word lose to signify 4
an eternal separation from God; we will read another 5
text with this definition: “ Those that thou hast given {
me I have kept: and none of them is lost, but the sots of ^
perdition” [Jo. 17. 12 .] Notwithstanding the text,up- j
on which Universalists build their doctrine, declares, ,
that it was the Father’s will that of all he had given ,
Christ, none should be eternally lost: Yet the Saviour *
declares as above quoted, that out of the number given J
him one wots lost,—the son of perdition, and in another ^
place we read that he went 6
4to his own place,” [Ac. 1. {
25.] and the Saviour declares concerning him: “ Good
were it for that man, if he had never been born.” [Mark '
ley admit that “ the last day,” refers to the res* j
urrection. Grant it. Then we read: 4
4The word that I
have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day.”
(Jo. 1 2 . 48.) This admission proves the judgment day,
at the resurrection of the dead: and thus Universalists
renounce their doctrine, every time they quote this text
to sustain it. !
A A John 12. 32. And I, if I be lifted up !
from the earth, will draw all men unto
me.
John 6.37. All that the Father giveth me shall
come to m e; and him that cometh to me I will
in no wise cast out.
Before Universalists can make these texts favor their
doctrine, they must prove six things.
1. That the draw ing here referred to is compulsatory.
2: That it is to be accomDlished in eternity, and not
7 time.
A G A I N S T I T S E L F .. 0»
S. That the lifting up of Christ from the earth, here
referred to, has not yet been accomplished, and will not
be till the resurrection of the dead.
4. That all men means the whole human family.
5. That the whole human family are given to'Christ
in the sense of this second text: and
6 . That “will draw” and u shall come” are uncondi­
tional; or that there is not an i f implied, as in the pro*
mise to Abraham.
This must all be done before these texts will favor
Universalism; and a failure in any one of these six points
destroys their argument. Let us now examine them:
1. The word draw is used in the sense of invite, and
hence cannot be compulsatory. We have this word ex­
plained by the Saviour: “ No man can come unto me
except the Father which hath sent me draw him.” [Jo. 6.
44.] Now how is this drawing to be effected? Read
the next verse: “ It is written in the prophets: And they
shall all be taught of God. Every man therefore that
hath heard) and hath learned of the father, cometli unto
me." Thus it is that Christ draws men,—by teaching,
calling, and inviting them unto himself.
2. This drawing is to beeffected here in time; because
here, men are to be taught of God, and learn the will of
the father; and
3. Because Christ his been already lifted up from the
earth, ever since he rose from the dead. It cannot mean
that Christ will be lifted up from the earth at the resur­
rection of the dead; for then he will come from heaven,
not to be lifted up; but to lift up the saints, or (hose that
the father hath drawn to him by teaching; as he de-.
dares: “ No man can come to me except the father
which hath sent me draw him, and I will raise him up
at the last d a y”
4 . AH men does not necessarily mean the whole hu­
man family. Universalists cannot prove (hat it has this
meaning in any passage in the bide, except when it
speaks of God as the creator of all men. A tew
¿all be given.
60 U N I V E R S A L I S A
“And ye shall be hated of aU men for my name’s sake.”
[Math. 10 . 22.] Did the entire race of Adam hate the
apostles ? Will Universalists acknowledge that they
hate the apostles ? If not, will they give up their ’ism ?
“All men counted John, that he was a prophet,” [Mark
1 1 . 32.] Did the whole human family count John a
prophet; when not one millionth part of them ever saw
nim, or knew any thing about him. Once more: “ Many
of them also which used curious arts, brought their books
together, and burned them before aU men*” [Ac. 19.19.]
Did Universalists see them bum their books? If not,
then they are no part of aU men, and will not therefore
be drawn to Christ.
5. The whole human family are not given to him in
the sense here intended. If the phrase, 4
4all that the
Father giveth me,” is to be understood in the sense of
dominion and power, and not in the sense of spiritual re­
lation, then the cattle upon a thousand hills will conse­
quently be saved : for they belong to the Father ; and
Christ says: “All things that the Father hath are mine.”
[Jo. 17. 18.] (See also examination of John 6. 39.)
6 . “ TPÏZ/” is frequently used conditjkftiaJly; and so it
undoubtedly is in this case: “ I will men unto
me,” i. e. if they will come. (See 1 San?. 23. 11-13.)
44Shall come” is frequently used iri‘thë%efose of may
come, or shall have the privilege oféùMiftfgi f theychoose.
This is a common mode of speech. The father said to
his two sons, 4
4Stay here till to-morroW, and then you
shall come to the feast,” i. e. you may come. Thus we
understand the text; “All that the Father giveth me shall
come to me,” i. e. may come if they am disposed; and in
Revelations, we have a corresponding text : 4
4 Let him
that is athirst come, and whosoever wiU, let him take the
water of life freely.” [Rev. 2 2 . 17.]
But suppose we should admit that Christ will be lifted
kat the general resurrection; and that there, and then,
will draw all men unto him; and that draw is to be
urstood as compulsatory; and that all men means the
}
e human fam ily, what will UmversaUsts çpin by it?
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . •1
Just nothing at all; for they will then be drawn before
the judgment seat; and punished (if they belong with the
goats) w ith an everlasting destruction from his presence,
and from the glory of his power. But says one: those
that come to him, he declares, he will in no wise cast out.
True enough: but coming, and being drawed, or drag­
ged to him, are two things vastly different. He does
not sav: He that is dragged to me, I will in no wise cast
out. But a he that comes;” showing plainly that it is con­
ditional; and here again we have Universalism against
itself; for whilst one system teaches, that those who come
to dhrist, will be saved; the other teaches, that they will
be saved whether they come or not,—unconditionally.
Yes; if they will not come, no difference, only wait till
the resurrection, and Christ will draw them, or drag
them to him, which will answer the purpose just as well,
as though they had voluntarily come to him.
A John 17. 2, 3. As thou hast given him
“ • power over all flesh, that he should give
eternal life to as many as thou hast given him;
«id this is life eternal, that they might know thee,
the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou
hast sent.
Before Universalists can claim this text, they must
prove five things.
1 . That allflesh means the whole human family and
nothing else. This they cannot do,for allflesh embraces
beasts, as well as men. Proof: ‘‘And of every living
thing of aUflesh, two of every sort, shah thou bring into
the ark,—otfowls after their kind, and of cattle after their
kind; and of every creeping thing.oi the earth after his
kind." (Gen. 6 . 19, 20.) Thus, if the 4
4allflesh ” of this
text, is to have eternal life, we will have the company
offowls, cattle, and creeping things in heaven; for Christ
has power over all flesh in thievery sense; foTV
ve saw .
*AHpouteris given unto me in heaven, and uv earuv”
F
UNIVERSALISM
(Math. 28. 18«) But if it be contended that all flesh if ,
to be confined exclusively to the human species, then ■
Universalists cannot prove that it means the thousandth \
part of them. Proof: “And behold I, even I do bring a %
flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh.”
(Gen. 6. 17.) Do Universalists believe that the entire ,,
race of Adam was destroyed in the flood? No. They !
will tell us, it had reference to those only who lived at ^
that time on the earth. Yes, and not to all of them, ia .
an unlimited sense; for eight persons, out of the allfleshy >
were saved alive in the ark. Here Universalism meets (|
an insurmountable barrier. 1
2. They must prove that “ as many as thou hast given
him,” means the allflesh, over which Christ had power.
This cannot be done. The context is opposed to it:— i
“ I pray not for the world; but for them which thouhast *
given m e” (verse 9.) If the idea of Universalism be j
correct, that he is to give eternal life to all flesh; then it *
should read thus: As thou hast given him power over J
all flesh that he should give them eternal life: not that he '
should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given 1
him. This word as many, shows plainly that some were !
not included, and consequently that some were not given :
to Christ in this sense. For example, when Paul says: )
“As many as are of the works of the law, are under the 1
curse,” (<5al. 3. 10 .) does it not incontrovertiblv imply, *
that some were not of the works of the law? Yes; for J
all the Christians of that age were exceptions; and hence, !
|
“as many as thou hast given him,” proves just as conclu- !
sively, that some were not given to him, in the sense in- 1
tended in this text. (See examination of Math. 1 . 2 1 .) |
3. They must prove that because Christ will g iv e them {
eternal life, therefore, they will be certain to possess it :
This they cannot do; for I can prove that God Has giv- 1
en men things which they never possessed, because they 1
would hot have them. For example, God gave to the
children of Israel the land of Canaan; and yet because 1
of their disobedience they never possessed it Proof: !
“Yet also I lifted up my hand unto them in the wilder- 1
A G A I N S T I V S E L P . M
B8i% that 1 would not bring them into the land which I
had given them.” [Ezek. 20. 15«]
4. They must prove that eternal life means the joys of
the immortal state, and not the spiritual life of the Chris­
tian here in time. This we admit; but still they are
bound to prove it, and whenever they do this, they anni­
hilate their doctrine; for eternal life is spoken of in more
than twenty passages of scripture, where it is suspended
upon the conditions of faith and obedience. One exam­
ple will suffice for the present:“ Fiqht the goadfight of
fa ith and lay hold on eternal life.” (1 Tim . 6.
12 .) Every time a Universalist quotes this text, just make
him prove that eternal eternal life refers to the future
state, and you have Vhiversalism against itself
5. They must prove that all men, universally, will know
God, as they admit this to be an indispensable pre-requi-
nteto the enjoymentofeternallife. This they cannot do.
They quote Heb. 8. 1 1 . “All shall know me from the
least to the greatest,” but this does not prove the point,
as we shaU show, when we come to examine that text.
Let us now' see what it is, scripturaily to know God:
•Awake to righteousness and sin not, for some have not
the knowledge of God.” [1. Cor. 15. 34.] But why have
they not the knowledge of God! Because, says the
apostle: “ He that knoweth God, heareth us.” (John 4. 6.)
Again: “ They profess that they know God, but in works
they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and unto
every good work reprobate” [Tit. 1 . 16.] Once more:
•Here!>ywe do know that we know him, if we keep his
eommandments. He that saith I know him, and keepeth
not hie commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in
him.9
’ [1 John 2. 3, 4.] And finally: what will become
of those that know not God ? (See 2 Thess. 1 . 7-9.)—
Now as Universalists admit that none can have eternal
life,only such as know God; here again we have Univer*
oattom against itself; for the appstles have positively
ta ^ h t that none can know God, only those who keep his
commandments; and ifa Universalist should say he
know God, without keeping his commandments^ \he
64 UNI VERBALISM
apostle John tells hkn,« he is a /tar, and the trvtk it not
in h im ”
Acts. 3 .30,21. And he shall send Jesus
Christ, which before was preached unto
you: whom the heaven must receive until the
times of restitution of all things, which God has
spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets
since the world began.
‘ This text is considered by Universalists strong ground
in their favor. But we think, when it once passes the
ordeal of critical investigation, it will be discovered to
have no more the appearance of Universalism, than those
already examined.
1 . The whole force of the argument depends upon the
word restitution or restoration. It cannot mean that the
whole human family will be made holy and happy; for we
have examined the testimony ofall the prophets, upon this
subject, and not one of them has testified in favor of Uni­
versalism. Hence, this one argument is sufficient to
convince the candid and intelligent reader, that the
apostle Peter did not design to teach Universalism, for
he speaks only of the “ restitution of all things, whig*
God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets;*
and as God did not speak of universal salvation by the
mouth of any of his prophets, it follows that Peter did
not think of Universalism when he uttered this sentence;
If it mean salvation at all, it can only prove the salva-
tion of the people of God, for they are tne only onesof
whom the prophets have spoken.
2 . Are Universalists certain that restitution means sab
vation from sin? I think hardly. We will examiners
few other texts, where the same word occurs in the orig­
inal scriptures. “And Jesus answered, and said ante
them; Elias truly shall first come, and restore all thugs,*
{Math. 17. 1 1 .J i. e. make all things holy and happy! If
ohn the Baptist made all things holy and happy, what
a g a i n s t i t s e l f . u
was there left for Christ to do? “ When they therefore
were come together, they asked of him, saying: Lord
wilt thou at this time, restore again the kingdom to Is­
rael?” [ Acts 1 . 6 .] i. e. wilt thou make the kingdom holy
and happy; or save it from sin? ‘‘Then said he to the
man: stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it forth;
and it was restored whole like as the other.” [Math. 12 .
13.] i. e. was saved from sin! “After that ne put his
hands again upon his eyes, and made him look up; and
he was restored, and saw every man clearly.” [Mark 8.
25.] The word restore in all these examples, is the same
as in Acts 3.2 1 ,—apokatasasis. Universalists contend
that the apostle designed teaching a universal reconcili­
ation; but unfortunately for their system, he made use of
the wrong word: it should have been apokataUasso. If
the text does literally mean to restore all men; it cannot
mean to take all men to heaven, for all men have never
been there; and to restore means to take a thing back to
where it once was. Universalists can prove no more by
it, make the most of it, than this: that all men will be re-
storedj than is, brought back again into the flesh, to be
judged. To restore the wicked is to bring them back to
a state of sin, to receive their final sentence.
3. Peter gives a reason in the next verse why this res*
titution will take place. He commences it with the con­
junction /hr, and you know this always brings in a rea­
son. We shall expect now, if the apostle designed to
teach Universalism,4n verse 2 1 , that the reason he as­
signs will correspond with it. Let us hear it any how:
uFbr Moses truly said unto the fathers: a prophet shall
the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren
like unto me: him shall ye near in all things whatsoever
he shall say unto you. And it shall come to pass that
every soul which will not hear that prophet, [shall be
saved? No! no!] shall be destroyed from among the
people.” [Verses 2 2 , 23.] Singular Universalisai this
truly! The reason Peter gives for this universal salva­
tion is, that some souls will be destroyed!! Biitperhaps
Peter betters the matter in the verses preceding \tafr
6 p*
66 U N IV E R S A L IS M
proof text Let us see:44Repent ye therefore, and be
converted, that your sins may be blotted out” Peter cer­
tainly was no Universalist; tor had he been, he would not
have taught repentance, and conversion is necessary to
the blotting out of sins: but would have taught them, (if
he was an honest man,) that whether they repented or %
not, it would make no difference in the out-come, for, at t-
the restitution, let a man be ever so sinful, and ever so a
impenitent, his sins shall there and then all be blotted
out# This is pure unadulterated Universalism. ^
4# I will now present Universalism against itself:—
reductio ad absurdum. Christ came, we are informed by B
Universa!ists, at the destruction of Jerusalem. Then of
course was the restitution, or the resurrection; for the *
heaven was to receive him till the restitution took place. \
Then^ all things that the prophets had spoken were ful­
filled: for the Saviour says: 4
4These be the days of ven­
geance, that all things which are written may be fulfill­
ed” [Luke 2 1 . 2 2 .] Then, all men were saved; and
consequently those that have since lived, are not men,
but some other race of beings. And Universalists are
hereby proved to be the very same scoffers of which
Peter speaks, who should come in the last days: 4
4Say­
ing: where is the promise of his coming? for since the
fathers fell asleep, (i. e. since Jerusalem was destroyed,)
all things continue as they were from the beginning of
the creation.” (2 Pet. 3. 4.) And their doctrine is the
very same old heresy which Paul advertized 1800 years
ago: which teaches 4
4that the resurrection is past al­
ready.” [2 Tim. 2. 18.] To sum up: Universalists are
compelled to take one of three grounds: Either 1 . To
give up the dogma of the coming of the Lord at the de­
struction of Jerusalem; or 2. To contend that the resti­
tution took place at that time; or 3. To give up this text
and confess that it does not prove their doctrine; either
of which kills Universalism. Which horn of this trilem­
ma they will prefer is for them, and not for me to decide.
To say, (which they do,) that this restitution is still fu­
ture, would be to say, that tjie Lord did not come at the
•
R
H
B
a g a in s t i t s e l f . ér
destruction of Jerusalem, which would be a virtual re*
mmciation of Universalism. Here we leavethe doctrine
tosquirm in the midst of inflexible difficulties.
A K A cts 11.10.* And this was done three
* • times, and all were drawn op again in­
to heaven. i
This text is concerning the vision of the sheet, which
Peter saw let down from heaven, full of a all manner of
four footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and
creeping thing, and fowls of the air.” [Acts. 10 . 12.]
Universalists contend, that these living creatures, repre­
sented the whole human family; and they being all ta­
ken up into heaven, proves that the whole human family
will be saved. They also contend that Peter was not
converted to Universalism till he saw this vision; and
then the Saviour’s words were fulfilled: uWhen thou art
converted, strengthen thy brethren.” [Luke 22. 32.]
We might let this all go for what it is worth,—nothing:
but perhaps it is better to say a word or two, to set the
matter straight, and to show that this text has nothing
to do with Universalism; [i. e. for it] and that Univer­
salists have entirely misunderstood the design of this
vision. 1 . Suppose we should admit that Peter was not
converted to Universalism till he saw this vision; it is a
little singular that he should preach Universalism in th?
text just examined, [Acts 3. 21,] eight years before he
believed the doctrine! And as he did not then believe
m Universalism but still preached the gospel, as Univer­
salists admit, one of two things must inevitably follow:
either 1 . That there are two gospels divinely authorized;
or 2 . That Universalism is no part of the gospel; but a
perversion of the gospel of Christ. Is it not one of thé
most singular things in all 'creation, that Peter preached
tolerably good Universalism before he was converted;
and that, in all his life afterwards, he never uttered. *
imgie syllable la Its favor!! Universalists themselves*
UNIVERSALISM
4*
.with all their hawk-eyed critics, have never daupe&ta *
single scratch of Peter’spen in proof of Universalisop,
after his conversion« This being true, one of three 1
things follows inevitably: either 1 * That Peter was con- *
verted to Universalism; and saw that it was a danger- i
otis doctrine in its tendency ctad influence, and ffiermre
resolved not to preach it; or 2«That the reason whyhe i
never preached the doctrine after his conversion, was,
because he believed in Universalism before, and was con­
verted from it: or 3. That he never was a Universalist j
before, nor after his conversion, and that his conversion i
has reference to something else. If they admit the first,
then they should cease preaching the doctrine; for it
must be just as pernicious in its tendency now, as it
was then« If they admit the second: then the same
arguments that would convert Peter, and cause him to
renounce Universalism, should also induce them to give
it up« But if they admit the third, they give up this
text* Either will answer our purpose«
2. But Peter’s explanation of this vision, should be
taken as soon at least, as that of Universalists. He ex­
plains it thus: “ Of a truth I perceive that God is no
respecter of persons; but in every nation, he that fear-
eth God, and worketh righteousness, is accepted of him.”
[Acts 10 . 34, 35.} All being taken up into heaven, Peter
understands to signify, that all men m by be saved, and I
be taken up into heaven if they choose; and not that i
they absolutely will. The vision was designed to show
Peter that the gentiles, as well as the Jews, had a right |
to embrace the Gospel and be saved; and it proved ef­
fectual,—he was fully convinced by it that God was no
respecter of persons; and that he would save (not every
body unconditionally; butl those in every nation, who
feared God, and worked righteousness. Had Peter
been converted to Universalism, and for the first time
been expressing his firm convictions of its truth; he cer­
tainly would not have made use of the language he did,
if he ever wished his real sentiments to be known. But
he would have expressed himself thus: “Of a truth I
AGAINST IT S E L F m
perceive that God isno respecterofpersons’rcnaracters]
but in every nation, he that feareth fnot}God, and w ort
I eth[unrighteousness is accepted ofhim.” -This is pure,
S
inuine, New England Universalism: and Peter was no
niversalist, or he was an exceedingly poor scholar,
with an education so limited, as not to be competent to
convey his ideas, so that one in ten thousand could un­
derstand him.
3. But as usual,we have Universalism against itself
inthis argument. It is admitted necessarily that heaven
relates to the kingdom of glory above. This admission
forever condemns the doctrine; for heaven is proved to
be conditional in a number df places. One will suffice
for the present. M
Rejoice ana be exceeding glad, for
great is your reward in heaven.” (Math. St 12.) i. e.
in the kingdom o f ultimate glory. Whenever Univer­
salists present this argument, make them tell you what
h ea ven means; and their theory of an unconditional¿so-
sen, tumbles into oblivion.
A 4 9 Rom. 5. 1 2 ,1 8 ,1 9 . W herefore,'as by
one man sin entered into the world, and
death by sin; and so death passed upon all men,
for that all have sinned. Therefore, as by the
offence o f one, judgment came upon all men to
condemnation: even so by the righteousness o f
one, the free gift came upon all men unto justifi­
cation o f life. For as by one man’s disobedience
many were made sinners: so by the obedience of
one, shall many be made righteous.
I have left out die parenthesis, and have quoted the
whole connection upon which Universalists base their
doctrine. But in order that this scripture be made to
■stain Universalism, three things must be proved.
1. That “ all men,” and “ many,” signifies the entire
nee o fA dam , without an exception. Tins they cannot
» U N IV E R S A L 1S M
2 . That justification, (verse 18,) means deliverance I
from sin. Here too they will fail. *
3* That shall, (ferse 19,) is to be understood in an ab- t
solute or unconditional sense; or that there is not an if t
implied, as in the promise to Abraham. (See examina- v
tion of Gen. 2 2 . 18.) At each of these points, Univer- a
salism must inevitably fail.
1 . 44So death passed upon all m m .” A ll men here
cannot mean the whole human family, because death did <
not pass upon Enoch and Elijah; as they were transla* i
ted to heaven without seeing death. Paul says concern- i
* ing the formeri 4
4By faith Enoch was translated, that he
should not see death.” (Heb. 1 1 . 5.) Here the aU men
of Universalism is minus two. But Paul speaks in the
Eist tense: 4
4 Death passed upon all men,” not willpass.
ence all m m does not necessarily mean those who
now live upon the earth; for death certainly had not
passed upon them, 1800 years before they existed! But
if it must apply to the future as well as to the past, it
still cannot mean a mathematical whole; for when the
Lord shall come, at the resurrection, we are informed,
that many will remain alive upon the earth,—in all pro­
bability millions. What then becomes of the absolute
totality of aU men in this verse? Death will not pass
upon those who remain alive when the Lord comes, for
the apostle says, 4
4We shall not all sleep” (1 Cor. 15. 51.)
But to evade this difficulty, it may be said, that the
death here referred to, is to be understood in a moral
sense, i. e.a death in sin, and not the literal death of the
body. But this only makes matters worse for Universal-
ism; for all the myriads of the human race, who have
lived and died in infancy; have never died this moral
tfeath. Infants are not sinners, for4
4sin is the transgres­
sion of the law.” [1 Jo. 3. 4.] And, 4
4 Where no law
is, there is no transgression.” [Rom. 4.15.]. And Uni-
versalists themselves quote the language of the Saviour,
, to prove that infants are perfectly pure, innocent and
uncontaminated: 4
4Sufferlittle children to come unto me,
and forbid them not, for of such is the kmg&otucf he&v^
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 71
en.” [Mark 1 0 . 14.] These remarks will also apply to
the word m any, [verse 19*]
2. We shall now present our views of verse 18 by
paraphrasing it. u Therefore by the offence of one man,
which was Adam, judgment came upon all;men to the
condemnation of a natural death, by which means they
were taken down to the grave; even so by the righteous*
ness or obedience of one man, who was the second Ad­
am—the Lord from heaven, the free gift came upon all
men to a justification or resuscitation to a natural life, or
the resurrection from the dead.” This is undoubtedly
the true idea of this text. Universalists cannot disprove
it, if their salvation was at stake.
3. “ So by the obedience of one, shall many be made
righteous.” [Verse 19.] Shall, is here used conditional­
ly; for there are many passages which teach positively,
that in order to be righteous men must obey God. uLit­
tle children, let no man deceive you. He that doetk
righteousness, is righteous, even as he is righteous.” [1
John 3 . *£.] “ In every nation he that fe&reth God, and
worketh righteousness, is accepted of him.” [Acts 10.35.]
“ Whosoever doeth not righteousness, is not of God.”
[1 John 3. 10 .] u Know ye not, that to whom ye yield
yourselves servants to obey,Yi\s servants ye are to whom
ye obey, whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto
righteousness.” (Rom. 6. 16.) Hence we understand
the apostle the same as if he had said: ‘iSo by the obedi­
ence of one, s h a l l many be made righteous, i f they do
righteousness.” None were ever made sinners by the
disobedience of Adam, only those who voluntarily acted
upon the principle of disobedience which Adam intro­
duced. This being incontrovertibly true; it follows, that
none can be made righteous by the obedience of Christ,
only such as voluntarily act in conformity to the exaiQr
pie of obedience which Christ laid down. And as none
were made sinners by the disobedience of Adam, m
eternity; therefore none will be made righteous by the
obedience of Christ only in this life. It Universalists
can prove, that those who die unrighteous, can
UN IVERBALISM
the example of"Christ in voluntary obedience and thus
become nghteous in eternity; I can prove by the same II
logic, that those who die righteous, can after this, cany >|
out the principle of disobedience introduced by Adam, j
and thus voluntarily become unrighteous! But we are
not left in the dark, to infer with reference to the apos­
tle’s meaning. He throws in a verse as explanatory; to f
show positively that he does not design to teach Univer- £
salism. 4
4For if by one man’s offense, death reigned by 1
3
one; much more they which receive abundance of ^
grace, and ofthe g ift of righteousness, shall reign in life *
by one Jesus Christ.” [Verse 17.] This then settles the ^
controversy, and upon this text, is an end of all strife. It *
!
shows that those who receive the “gift ofrighteousness” '*
are the ones who are made righteous by the obedience of I
Christ, and those who.4
4receive abundance ofgrace”are *
the characters who will be saved, or 4
4reign in life by one *
Christ Jesus.” In order to know who will reign in life, *
we must know who will receive grace. Umversalism !
says, that God gives grace to everybody: but Peter 1
says: 4
4God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the *
humble.” (t Pet. 5. 5.) Thus we have Uhiversalism *
against itself* None but the humble can receive grace; \
and some are not profited by it, when they do receive it, i
for they have it in their power to receive it in vain: i
proof: “ We therefore as workers together with him, be- \
seech you also, that ye receive not the grace o f God in i
vain.” (2 Cor. 6. 1.) They also have it in their power •
to fall from grace: proof:4
4Christ is become of no effect !
unto yQu, whosoever of you are justified by the law, ye '
are fallen from grace.” (Gal. 5. 4.) They also have it
in their power to lose the grace of God entirely: proof:
4
4Follow peace with all men, and holiness without which
no man snail see the Lord: looking diligently, lest any
man fail of the grace of God.” (Heb. 12. 14, 15.)
From all this we draw the conclusion, that when the
fifth chap, of Rom. is appealed to, Universalism has
madea mistake, and subpenaed the wrong witness.
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 73
A M T R om . 6. 23. The wages of sin is death,
* • # but the g ift o f God ie eternal life
through Jesus Christ our Lord.
1. Universalists quote this text universally, to prove
that the life beyond the resurrection is unconditional,
because it is the g ift of God. There is not a book of fi?
ty pages m favor of Universalism now extant, which has
not this text in it, thus applied. We take it for granted
hence, that this is one of their strong holds. And we
therefore meet them just here with * the weapons ofour
warfare which are not carnal, but mighty through God,
to the pulling down o f strong holds, casting down imagi­
nations, and every high thing that opposeth, and exaleth
itselfagainst the knowledge of God. (2 Cor. 10. 4,5.)—
And in a very few minutes, we think the reader will
discover U niversalism against itself, in compelling
this witness into court
2. Does it follow, because eternal life is a gifU tha*
therefore it is unconditional! Not at all, but right the
reverse, as we shall now show. The wordg ift presup
posesa gitwr; and the wordgiver, presupposes a receiver,
sad the word receiver, in connection with giver, presup­
poses reception, which to all intents and purposes is a con
dition. There can be nog ift without a giver, and there
canbe no giver, without a receiver; neither can there be s
gift possessed or enjoyed by the receiver, without the con*'
dition of reception. Hence eternal life, being a g ift, is tht
very strongest argument imaginable, in favor of its con-
drtionality. As certain as eternal life is a.g ift to men,
just so certain must they accept it, or never have it.—
, Thus testifies Paul: “ Fight the good fight of faith, and
ut hold on, [or accept of] eternal life.” (I Tim. 6. 12.)
: The Saviour also testifies the same thing: “ Search the
Kriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and
they are they that testify ofme; but ye will not come unto
me, that ye m ight have eternal life ” (John 5. 39,40.")
1 3, It is said, t f eternal life be conditional, than \\ Vi *
74 U N IV ER SA L ISM
matter of debt and credit between man and God! It is
somewhat astonishing, and needs a mark of wonder or
surprise, that meft ofsense should resort to such a miser­
able subterfuge. But we ought not to complain, as this
is the best they have to offer. The editor of the Star is
prolificinjust such diminuosities; as the greatness of
some men, consists altogether in their littleness.
But let us look at this objection: Universalists admit,
and contend that the present salvation, or forgiveness of
sins,is conditional; as every one knows, (who has the
slightestacquaintance with Universalism,) that every pas­
sage which speaks ofsalvation as being conditional, they
refer to the present salvation from sin, in order if possible
to keep ¡tout of eternity. Now let me ask these learn­
ed metaphysicians? Is the forgiveness ofsins, a matter o!
debt and credit between man and God? Does man re­
munerate God for the benefit received, by simply sub
mitting to the terms of pardon? But do you say, for
giveness is nota gift! If you do, hear Peter: “ Him hath
God exalted with his right hand, to be a Prince and a
Saviour, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of
sins.” (Acts 5.31.) What say you now? Cannot eter­
nal life depend upon the condition ofobedience, and still
be a gift, just as much as forgiveness of sins? But
suppose a case: A beggar presents himself before your
'door, hpngry, cold, and miserably clad. Your svmpn-
’thies are excited for him. You prepare a suit of clothes,
and spread your table with the bounties of providence.
You then invite the hungry man to come in, and partake
of your hospitalities as a free gift. But to your astonish^
ment the man replies: If that food, which you have pre­
pared, be a free gift, as you say: then it is uncond/
tional, and consequently I expect to have it and enjoy v
without eating it! And those garments: if I have to be
to the trouble of putting them on, in order to enjoy them,
it will be a matter of debt and credit between you and
me; and why then talk about them as a gift, when yon
require me to pay you for them? You would be utterly
astonishedat such inconsistency: Yet,tty on turn to the
i J
5
¡E
Vs
h
-
i
E
1
e
S
i
ft
ft
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 75
aStar in the West,’’ you will find its pages lined with
just such philosophy: or, I should say, philo-sophistry*
4. The Saviour taught his disciples to pray: 44Our
Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy*name:—
give us this day our daily bread.” (Math. 6. 9, 11.)—
Yet who Supposes that our daily bread is to be possessed,
orenjoyed, independent ofus complying with the laws of
nature? In fact: there cannot be such a thing as an un­
conditional gift: it is a contradiction in terms, and the
very word itself, as we have shown, refutes such a hy­
pothesis, by always carrying along with it the idea of
reception, as a condition invariably to be complied with
before the gift can be possessed or enjoyed. God
sometimes gives men certain things which they never
possess, from the fact that they will not have them. As
an example of this kind, we refer to the fact of God giv­
ing the land of Canaan to the children of Israel, and for
their disobedience he never .let them possess it. Thus
testifies the Lord by the mouth of the prophet:4
4Yet al­
so I lifted up my hand unto them in the wilderness, that
1would not bring them into the land which I had given
them” (Ezek. 20. 15.) Hence, God may give men the
antitype of this land,—the eternal Canaan,—the rest
that remains for the people of God; and still they may
never possess it: but, like the rebellious Israelites, forfeit
their inheritance by disobedience. *
5. The phrase 4
4through Jesus Christ our Ix>rd,” we
claim as diametrically opposed to the Univcrsalist as­
sumption of Unconditionality. The meaning is precise­
ly the same as if he had said: 4
4The gift of God is eter­
nal lifejin obedience to Jesus Christ our Lord.” We have
some reason for this claim. When Paul says:44Through
this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins,”
(Acts 13. 38,) does he not mean to be understood the
same as if he had said: “In obeying this man is preached
unto you the forgiveness of sins?” Most certainly: this
(Jniversalists admit; and this being so, the whole scheme
of Universalism is prostrate with the dust: for InsteaA
ofthe apostle teaching what they have always assvxttv^
76 UNIVERSALIS!»
namely: that eternal life is unconditional, because the
gift of God; he has taught in direct opposition to it, that
the gift of God is eternal life through, or in obedience
to, Jesus Christ our Lord;—the same as if he had said:
the gift of God is eternal life conditionally.
6. The conditionality of eternal life is farther demon­
strated from the preceding verse: 4
4But now being
made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye have
your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life,”
or eternal life, it being the same word in the Greek:
zoe aionios; life eternal: and in this verse it is suspen­
ded upon the condition of “ having our fruit unto holi­
ness.” No man dare assert that eternal life in verse
22, is not the same as eternal life in verse 23, which is
the gift of God. The two verses are joined together in
such a manner, as to utterly exclude such an idea: the
latter being given as a reason, for what the apostle had
said in the former. They are united thus: 4
4Ye have
your fruit unto holiness, and the end eternal life;
FOR the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is
eternal life through J esus Christ our Lord*
” The con­
junction /or, brings in the reason why eternal life is sus­
pended upon the condition of having 4
4our fruit unto ho­
liness:” it is BECAUSE it is the GIFT OF G od THROUGH, OT
in obedience to Jesus Christ our Lord! Dare any man
risk his reputation as a critic or a scholar, by assuming
that the apostle in one verse, lays down the position that
eternal life is conditional, and in the next verse gives
his reason for it, but uses the same word in a sense dif­
fering infinitely from the former? If any man should
possess such hardihood, I feel to pity his conscientious­
ness, as much as his sense of honor.
7. This same word, eternal life, which Universalists
acknowledge refers to eternity, is used by the apostle
in another connection, where it is also unanswerably
proved to be conditional. 4
4He that soweth to his flesh,
shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to
the spirit, shall of the spirit reap life eternal; (Gal. 6.
8.) &oe aionios, the same woYa used m \kve \rcwMext
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 77
under examination. This cannot mean the spiritual life
of the gospel which the Christian enjoys here in time;
for those brethren were then in possession of that life:
but this eternal life, which they were to reap, by sowing
to the spirit, was still in the future, as he declares in the
next verse: “ And let us not be weary in well doing; for
in due season we shall reap, if we faint not.” This
proves that the eternal life, which Christians are to reap
if they faint not, is the life of immortality, beyond the
resurrection, the same as in Rom. 6. 23. Had the apos­
tle understood t\As eternallife> as meaning no more than
the present spiritual life of the Christian, he would not
have placed the verb in the future tense,—4
4we shall
reap?' but in the present: We do reap every day of our
lives as we go along!! From this it is certain the apos­
tle refers to the future life; and just so certain he kills
Universalism dead, by making the life to come depend
upon our conduct in time. Here then we see the differ­
ence between Paul, and a Universalist. One teaches
that: “ In due season we shall reap, i f we fa in t not; *
whilst the other teaches, that4
4In due season we shall
reap, if we faint (or) not!”
8. But we are told that it is contrary to reason, to talk
of sowing in one place, and reaping m another. How
would it look, say they, for a man to sow in Ohio, and
go west of the Rocky mountains to reap his crop? This
however is but an apparent difficulty, as we shall show;
but vre will first return the compliment by presenting a
real one, for Universalism to meet if it can.
Who ever heard of a man sowing and reapings Ioth as
he went along*?—scatter a handful of seed, and reach
forth his sickle immediately, and reap it before he left
his tracks!! This is Universalism; but it is neither rea­
son, common sense, nature, nor religion. But with re*
sped to this imaginary difficulty, I pretend not to say,
but that men will receive the final decision of their des­
tiny on this earth; for they are to be recompensed at the
resurrection; and the resurrection must take p\ace otv^cve
iarth where the dead are buried: and thus they vri\ xeap
G*
78 U N I VERBALISM
the crop where they have sown the seed. But let this
be as it may, men do not always in a moral point of
view, or with respect to character, reap in the precise
spot where they sow. A man may sow the seeds of ini­
quity in Europe, and before they have time to spring up
and grow, he crosses the mighty deep, and in America,
when time unvails his true character, he reaps the bitter
fruits of his own ill doings. A man may set on foot a
scheme«of wickedness, which may carry the seeds of
wretchedness and ruin to future ages;anddistant climes.
But enough of this: Universalists should be the last men
to talk about God carrying things over from time to
eternity, to be settled then; when according to their doo
trine, notwithstanding men become sinners in time, yet
God lets them remain so, as long as theylive; and instead
of exerting Almighty power to make them righteous
where they become wicked, he lets them die in their
sins, and postpones the importantmatterof their conver­
sion till the resurrection of the dead: when the whole
concern, which could have been settled just as well in
time, will then be disposed of!!
And finally: as Universalists admit that eternal life, in
this proof-text, refers to the.future state: it follows hence,
that the death placed in antithesis to it, must be an eter­
nal death* and must also refer to the same period,—the
resurrection state! Here then we leave Universalism
against itself—hand-cuffed perfectly, and its feet fast in
the stocks; whilst we pfoceed to examine their next
witness!!
Q Rom. 8.19-23. For the earnest expec-
Jm ^ # tation of the creature, waiteth for the
manifestations ofthe sons ofG od; for the creature
was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by
reason of him who hath subjected the same in
hope. Because the creature itself also shall be
delivered Grom the bondage of coiru^V\own\v\\s>
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 79
glorious liberty o f the children of God. For we
know that the whole creation groaneth, and tra-
vaileth in pain together until now; and not only
they, but ourselves also, which have the first fruits
of the spirit, even we ourselves, groan within our­
selves, waiting for the adoption to wit, the redemp­
tion of our body. <
This portion of scripture is considered one of the
strongest grounds of Umversalism; and some have even
Sne so far as to say, that if this was the only text in the
>le which appeared to favor Universalism, they would
nevertheless believe the doctrine. We shall show them
in a few minutes^ that they would have but a slim foun­
dation for their faith. This text has puzzled more com­
mentators, doubtless, than any other text in the bible.
We shall probably, in the few remarks we have to offer,
pursue a course marked out by none of them. Not that
we wish to be singular: but we wish to express our sin­
cere convictions upon the subject,and to be honest; it is
a free country, and we havea right to tell what we think,
as much as any other man—even if it should^cross the
track of all the commentators that have ever written.
Universalists contend that the Greek word ktisis, here
translated44creature” and44creation? signifies the whole
human family. This we deny, and we proceed in the
first place to'disprove it. The language which the apos­
tle makes use of, forever excludes the idea, that 4
4the
whale creation” means the entire posterity of Adam.—
This is clear without an argument, if we simply look at *
his language. 4
4For we know that the whole creation
groaneth, and travaileth in pain together until now, and
not only they, but oureelvesalso” i*e. not only the whole
creation, but ourselves also; showing most conclusively
thatourselves was no part of thisipAo* creation of which
he was speaking. If this be not so, then there is no
meaning in language. Suppose I should say:
were in the house heard him say itf %
nd xvoXoidy
80 U N IV E R S A L IS M
but ourselves also: would it not follow most positively
that ourselves were not in the house? Would l not be
considered as talking the most unpardonable nonsense,
to say: All that were in the house heard him, and not
only they, but oursehes also, when ourselves were in the
house just as much as any body else?
This one criticism leaves Universalism without hope,
and without God in the world, as far as this text is con­
cerned. Now, as we have disposed of Universalism, and
have seen that this is not the meaning of the text, it re­
mains for us to show what it does mean. But previous
to this we remark, that the creation, or creature, cannot
include Christians, or the sons of God; because the apos­
tle says, that the *
*creature waiteth for the manifestations
of the sons of God;” not for the manifestations of itself,
certainly! And it wshall be delivered from the bondage
of corruption, into the glorious liberty of the children of
God;” not into the glorious liberty of itself! And again:
wNot only they, [i. e. the creation] but ourselves alsof
who have the first fruits of the spirit. According to this:
Christians, or those who have the first fruits of the spirit,
are no part of this creation upon which the apostle is
treating. And if there can be a “ whole creation ” with­
out Christians; may there not, upon the same principle,
be a whole creation without sinners? and thus have a
whole creation of somebody else, who are called neither
Christians nor sinners? We shall come to the point soon.
But does the whole creation mean the physical creation^
or the earth we inhabit? Many excellent men, and men
of erudition have taken this ground: but with due defer­
ence we beg leave to dissent from this view, and will
assign our reasons. The creature is here spoken of as
groaning, waitings and hoping. It is contended, how­
ever, that these expressions are applied to the earth fig­
uratively. We admit that the waiting may be, and no
doubt is usedfiguratively; but the groaning cannot be;
and consequently the creation whichgroans cannot mean
the earth. The word groan cannot be used figurative­
ly for this reason. The disciples are said to take
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 81
mthis very groaning, which is applied to the creation.
Read the text again:4
4For we know that the whole crear
liongroaneth and travaileth in pain together until now;
and not only they, but ourselves also, which have the
first fruits of the spirit, even we ourselves groan within
ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit, the redemp­
tion of our body.” Here then we have it; that the crea­
tion groans, and not only they, but the disciples also
groan. Mark that word “ also;” for it shows that the
disciples took part in the same groaning, experienced by
the creation, which proves that it cannot be figurative,
andconsequently that the creation cannot mean the earth.
It cannot be supposed that the apostle would tell us, that
the creation groans, and that the disciples also groan,
and use the word groan figuratively the first time, and
literally the next! This would be an outrage upon all
correct rules of interpretation. From this and the fore­
going, we think we are justified in the following con­
clusions: 1. That ktisis, rendered creation, does not mean
the whole human family. 2. That it does not signify
Christians. 3. That it does not mean sinners. 4*
That it cannot signify the physical creation, or the
earth: and 5. That it does, in my humble judgment,
r signify the infant creation, or that part of the human
' family who never arrrive at the age of accountability,
' and who aré never in the scriptures styled either
Christians or sinners. Do you say this idea is a stranger?
If so, I would say, as did raul: 4
4Be not forgetful toen-
tertain strangers; for thereby some have entertained
angels unawares.” This view of the subject will har-
| monize with the context; whilst any other view cannot
; be reconciled. 4
4The creature was made subject to van-
' ity,not willingly.” That is, the infant creation was made
I subject to pain, sickness,and death; not willingly,—not
bytheir own choice,or by their own willful disobedience,
as is frequently the case with their parents, and as was
the case with our first parents in Eden, who wittingly
| transgressed the law o fGod, and brought this t?anity,vVvvs
' sickness and death upon their innocent offspring. TVvoa
H U N IV E R S A L IS M
it was that the infant creation was made subject to
vanity, by reason of him, i. e. Adam, who by his trans­
gression subjected them to pain and death; but not how­
ever, without a hope that the seed of the woman should
bruise the serpent’s head; and then this innocent crea­
tion, who have groaned and travailed in pain together
until now, shall4
4
also” be delivered from the bondage of
corruption into the glorious liberty of the children ot
God. They shall be partakers of the same inheritance,
with the saints in light, and be brought to the enjoyment
of the same liberty, allotted to those who, in mature age,
have voluntarily Deen adopted into the family of God.
The whole fraternity of Universalista, with all their
powers of mysticism and twisticism, are challenged to
refute this exposition. They cannot do it: and they
dare not try it. Reader, recollect this.
But Universalista may say, (as did Mr. Flanders, with
whom I discussed Universalismo) thatktisis cannot mean
infants; and that it has not this meaning once in the
whole hible. But here,as in other cases, Universalism
contradicts itself in one sentence. They first tell us that
ktisis means the wholehumanfam ily without exception
and then turn right round, ana say it cannot signify in­
fa n ts !! Singular indeed. Are notinfants a part of the
whole human fam ily? Most certainly: and thus Uni
versalists are necessarily compelled to admit that tht
creation means all that we contend it does; for they
say it means all that, and more too; but we challenge
them to prove that it means any more. Let.them put
theirfingeruponthat text ofscripture, wherektisis means
the entire posterity of Adam, or else for ever after hold
their peace. But this cannot be done: and thus you see,
reader, we have the entire advantage over Universalism,
(as truth always has the advantage of error,) and the ad­
vocates of this contradictory system cannot help them­
selves. Whenever they tell you that ktisis means the
whole human family, just admit that it means that part
o f the human family who die in infancy\ and deny its
meaning any more; and that V
asV
anX tjaweraUsoi is
brought to a dead set. They cAxmoVhoA%e\\.*
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 8S
Roro. 11.25,26. For I would not breth-
™ • ren that you should be ignorant of this
mystery, lest you should be wise in your own con­
ceits: that blindness in partis happened to Israel
until the fullness of the Gentiles be come in; and
so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, there
shall come out o f Zion the Deliverer, and shall
turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
Before Universalists can claim this text in support of
their doctrine, three things must be proved. 1. That
“tifl Israel” means the whole Jewish nation without ex­
ception. 2. That the “fullness of the Gentiles” means
all the Gentiles who have ever lived, are now living, or
* ever will live, till the end of time. And 3. That “shall
besaved,” is to be understood in an unconditional or ab­
solute sense. Let them fail in any one of these points,
ind this text is immediately surrendered. We shall show
1 Jhat they cannot prove either of them.
*1. Does “ all Israel” mean the whole Jewish nation!
‘And Moses called all Israel^ and said unto them.” [Deu.
5. 1.] Did Moses call the whole Jewish nation? when
? thousands of them had died and gone into eternity a short
t time before, and when millions of them were not yet in
r existence? The following texts are all of the same cat­
alogue.
“And all Israel stoned him with stones.” [Jos. 7 25.]
“And Gideon made an ephod thereof, and put it in nis
, city, even in Ophrah; and aU Israel went thither.” [Jud.
f 8.27.]
i “Now Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons
I did to all Israel.” [1. Sam. 2. 22.]
I “ Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented
him.” [1. Sam. 28. 3.]
“And all Israel fled every one to his tent.” [2. Sam.
I 18*17-J .
I “AnJ allIsrael heard o fthe judgment which thel^uvu
J hadjudged.” f t Ku 3. 28.]
84 U N IV ER B A LISM
“And the King and aU Israel with him, offered sacri­
fice before the Lord. [1 Kings 8. 62.]
“And all Israel shall mourn for hipn, and bury him.
(1. Kings 14. 13.)
“And David, and all Israel went to Jerusalem.” (I
Chron.11.4.)
“ Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant.”
(1 Ch. 15. 28.)
“ God smote Jeraboam,and all Israel.” (2 Chron. 13.
15.)
“ So all Israel shall be saved.” (Rom. 11. 26.)
In not one of these texts does all Israel mean the
whole Jewish nation, without an exception: neither has
it this meaning once in the bible. In each of these ex-
amples it means all, or a majority of the Jews who lived
at that particular period of time to which the text refers,
and no more.
So it is with this proof-text of Universalism. It re­
fers to a certain period of time in the future: when a
general conversion of the Jews, who are at that time liv­
ing shall take place. Then the Deliverer, who has come
out of Zion, shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob.
2. Does the “fullness ofthe Gentiles” mean the whole
Gentile world? Universalists cannot prove that it does;
from the fact that this is the only text in the bible where
this phrase occur. We have however two good rea­
sons for the contrary belief. 1. That all Israel, (which
is put contrast with thefullness ofthe Gentiles,) as we
have proved, does not mean an entire totality; and con­
sequently that the other does not. 2. Because we have
a phrase parallel with this, which does not include a
mathematical whole. “ But when the fullness of the
time was come, God sent forth his son.” (Gal. 4. 4.) It
cannot mean when all time had come; for there have
been more than 1800 years since! Therefore the fu ll­
ness of the Gentiles cannot mean all the Gentiles with­
out exception.
3. In the phrase shall be saved, there is an if to be
understood, because it is expressed \u n.wo'Oeer \w
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . S5
this same chapter; (verse 23,) and hence it is not abso-
. lute or unconditional» 4
4And they also,” says Paul,4
4if
[ they abide not in unbelief, ¿Aa// be grafted in; for God
I is able to graft them in again—SO all Israel shall be
saved.” How? Ans. “ IF they abide not in unbelief.”
| 4. Universalism is against itself by admitting that
saved refers to the eternal state of existence. Let us now
see whether Paul believed that all the Jews and Gentiles
would be saved. 4
4My heart’s desire and prayer to God
f for Israel is, that they might be saved” [Romans 10. 1.]
I Why, Paul, you are a singular Universalist! to desire,
and pray, and labor that Israel might be saved when you
I knew that they were just as sure of salvation without all
this fuss, as with it! Again says this Universalist: 441
am made all things to all men, that I might by all means
sa ve some.” [1 Cor. 9.22.] What! laboring to save some
} when all are certain to be saved? Truly, this is strange
(Jniversalism. But, finally, says our Universalian apos­
tle:4
4And being made perfect he [Christ] became the
author of eternal salvation, to all them that obet him.”
[Heb. 5. 9.] Worse, and more of it. But once more:
“Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost
[orevermore: polyglot margin: surely this refers to eter-
> nity: but who?J 0irth a t come unto God by him ” [Heb.
7. 25.] Now I think Universalists will have to give up
f Paul, or else hunt up some 4
4sheet ” and get him convert­
ed; and still he might not preach any better Universal­
ism than Peter did after his conversion.
1 Rom. 11. 36, For of him, and through
( • him, and to him are all things: to whom
^ be glory for ever. Amen.
( 1. This is called the grand finale of Universalism.
But it cannot prove the doctrine; for the same all things
that are to him , are also of him: and if to him means sal-
1 tation, then all the beasts of the field, fowls of the air,
| creeping things, and fish of the sea, will sureW g&
VVo
/ heaven; for they are a ll6
6o fh im ” This is enongVv Vo seV
86 UNIVERSALISM
Universalism aside, as far as this grand finale is claimed
in its support. But,
2. The Pro and Con of Universalism assert that God
is the author of sin, and quotes this very text to prove it!!
(page 81«) Now if these all things that are of God are
to him, and if to him means salvation,and if the Pro and
Con has told the truth, then sin, as well as all ihe animal,
vegetable, and mineral kingdoms, will be saved in heaven
with an everlasting salvation! What an ’ism this Uni­
versalism is.
3. But Universalism is against itselfin its application
of this text We are told that all men originally came
from God, and all will again in the same sense return to
him at the resurrection. This being true, there will be
no such thing as the salvation of men in heaven at all;
for there will be no such beings as men in existence!—
Before men were of God, they did not exist in any sense
whatever; and consequently after they are to him, they
will not exist, but be what they were before they were
of him: viz: a part of God. Hence, Universalism, in*
stead of teaching the endless salvation, and happiness of
men; holds to nothing but the endless salvation, and hap­
piness of God! As a man once argued, that as woman
was taken originally from the side of man, she would
again return at the resurrection, and form a component
part of man! Thus he proved that there would be no
women in heaven.
But if man is, as Universalism teaches^ a part of God,
then it follows that a part of God commits sin; and if a
part of God is sinful, then the whole of him may be, on
the same principle. And thus we have this rigmarole
conglomeration of incongruities, deduced from a fair
analysis of the principles of Universalism: that God is a
sinner,—that he is the author of sin,—that sin will be sa­
ved in heaven, as well as all the animals, creeping things,
fowls and fishes,—that there will be no women in heav­
en, for they are to return back, and form a part of that
from which they first originated,—that man will form a
part o f God, as he was before tus existence and thus be
A GAINST I T S E L F . 87
«wallowed up into nonentity, by being incorporated into
the essence of Deity: So that instead of universal salva­
tion, it la the salvation of no body, but in reality, the
universal annihilation of the whole human race!
A 1 Cor. 11. 3. But I would have you
• know, that the head of every man is
Christ, and the head of the woman is the man,
and the head of Christ is God.
1. From this text Universalists infer, that Christ is the
head of the whole human family, and consequently as all
are members of his body, all therefore will be saved; for
“ he is the Saviour of the body/9[Eph. 5. 23.] But this,
like most of their other aiguments, is built upon a sheer
assumption. They assume thatuevery man," here means
all m ankind totally. But are not women a part of the
human family? Certainly. Well they are not included
in the phrase u every man? as used here by the apostle;
for they are spoken of in contradistinction to men. “ Jhe
head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman
is the «nun.9
9 Are not women and men in this text spoken
of separately and distinctly ? and does it not follow that
every m an comes far short, in this case, of embracing
the whole race of Adam?
2. But Paul explains this in another place: “ For the
husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head
of the church.9
9 [Eph. 5. 23.] Thus, Christ being the
head of every man, relates to every man in the church,
and not every man in the world. The reason why Uni-
versalists commit such outrageous blunders in applying
the word, is because they pay no regard to who is speak­
ing, who he is speaking to, or what he is speaking of.
Paul was writing to the church, not the world. Again
we read: a Then the disciples, every man according to
his ability, determined to send relief to the brethren
which dwelt in J u d e a [Acts 11. 29.] Did the whole
human family, without exception, send reWel wp to
88 UN I VERBA LISM
poor brethren in Judea? If so, who were these poor
brethren? Were they not a part of the whole human
family?
3. But I had like to forgotten: Universalists tell us
that the church of Christ is universal, and that all men
are members of his body. Then, according to this, there
is no distinction between the church and the world; for
the wholeworld is the churchy according to Universalism.
Let us tiy a few passages, and see how this definition
will work. 4
4And the Lord added to the worlds daily
such as should be saved.” [Acts 2. 47.] The following
texts will speak for themselves:
4
4On this rock I will build my world, and the gates of
hell shall not prevail against i t ” [Math. 16. 18.]
4
4And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it to the
world; but if he neglect to hear the worlds let him be unto
thee as a heathen man, and a publican.” [Math. 18. 17.]
4
4And the young men came in, and found her dead, and
carried her forth, and buried her by her husband, and
great fear came upon all the world) and upon as many
as heard these things.” [Acts 5. 11.]
4
4And when they had ordained them elders in every
world, and had prayed with fasting, they commended
them to the Lord on whom they had believed.” [Acts
14. 23.] -
4
4Likewise greet the world that is in their house.”—
(Rom. 16. 5.)
4
4Therefore as the world is subject unto Christ, so let
the wives be to their own husbands in every thing.”—
(Eph. 5. 24.)
4
4Let your women keep silence in the w o rld sfor it is
a shame for women to speak in the world*” (1 Cor* 14.
34, 35.)
4
4As for Saul he made havock of the world) entering
into every house.” (Acts 8. 3.)
4
4Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of
the world, which was in Jerusalem.” (Acts 11. 22«)
4
4
From Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the el-
ders o f the w orld” (Acts 20.17.)
A G A I N S T I T S E L F .
“ I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a ser­
vant of the worlds which is at Cenchrea.” (Rom* 16* 1.)
“ Unto the angel of the world of Ephesus write.”—
(Rev. 2. 1.)
“ Feed the world of God, which he has purchased.”—
[Acts 20. 28.]
“ For I am the least of all the apostles, and am not
meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the
world of God.” [1 Cor. 15. 9.1
“ For if a man know not how to rule his own house,
how shall he take care of the world ofGod.” [Tim. 3. 5.]
“ Then had the worlds rest,—and walking in the fear
of the Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were
multiplied.” [Acts 9. 31.]
“ As the Lord has called every one, so let him walk,
and so ordain I in all worlds.” [1 Cor. 7. 17.1
“ I robbed other toorlds, taking wages of {nem to do
you service.” [2 Cor. 11.8.]
“ John to the seven worlds which ore in Asia.” [Rev.
i. 4.1
Thus we discover that the church and the world, does
not quite mean the same thing.
4. Universalists are frequently heard to say, that there
is not a member of their church in any penitentiary in
the United States. Those preachers ana editors, who
reiterate this statement, appear to be very well acquaint­
ed with the penitentiaries, to be so very exact in know­
ingthe character of every convict. Not disputing their
honesty, we shall however prove to the conviction of
every intelligent reader, that every cut-throat in the pen­
itentiary, and every scoundrel out of it that ought to be
there, are all members of the Universalist church. They
contend for the very thing they deny, and here, as in
other cases, we have Universalism against itself1 They
will not give up, but that their church is the church of
! Christ, and contend at the same time, that the church of
Christ is universal,—that all mankind are members of
his body. From this it follows incontrovertible,flasX v}\
the ungodly and profane, that all liars, thieve«,
3 t i #
*
90 U N IV E R S A L I S M
ards, manstealers, murderers, and those that are abomi­
nable, disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate,
are members of their church, ana consistent, candid,
practical Universalists. They go in for the doctrine,
soul, body and spirit; and show their faith by their works.
This may be considered hard; but it is nevertheless true.
It is an old maxim, and a true one, that actions speak
louder than words* This being so, let me ask: Who is
the most consistent Universalist, and who evinces most
faith in his doctrine; he who walks uprightly, and leads
a pious and Christian life, or he who acts just as though
he believed he would be saved let him do what he would?
Every sincere person, me thinks, must come to the con­
clusion, that the man who would lie, steal, swear, get
drunk, and disobey God m every thing, acts just as though
he believed in Universalism; that is, just as though he
believed that his wicked actions, could not in the least
endanger his eternal welfare* Such a man we call a
consistent, practical Universalist. He lives up to one
command, and that’s all. He shows his faith by his
works! But the man who would preach up that the
wicked would be saved, just as certain as fate, and yet
would not live a wicked life, I set him down as a hypo­
critical professor: that he does not believe the doctrine
he preaches, or he would show his faith by his works.
Suppose reader, we were confirmed in the belief, that
the wicked would be just as sure of heaven as the right­
eous; how could we make you believe that we were
sincere, in professing to believe this doctrine? Could
we make you believe we were sincere, by being very
cautious never to commit a sin? No; this would pro­
duce directly the opposite result. We could only make
you believe, that we believed what we professed, by
showing our faith by our works,—by trying the experi­
ment of living a wicked life; and thus confirming our
words, (by our actions,) that the wicked were infallibly
certain of eternal life. Sanri Patch, we are informed,
professed to believe that he could leap over a certain
precipice, and not be injured. The tankta&VKt
A G A IN S T ITSJSLF. 91
sincerity, and accordingly, to show that he sincerely be­
lieved what he said, he made the leap, and landed in
eternity. It proved however that he was honest. The
great distinguishing characteristic of Universalism, or
that trait which distinguishes it from all other doctrines
* is, that all the ungodly will be saved. This they may
deny, and say that the grand peculiarity of their system
is, that all men will be saved. This however is not cor­
rect, for we agree in part with this; i e. we believe that
the righteous or obedient part of aU men will be saved.
Hence, the difference is not with respect to the salvation
of the godly, for all parties agree upon this: it is only
with regard to the salvation of the ungodly that we disa­
gree. It follows therefore* that the grand feature of
Universalism, which marks out the line of discrimination
between Universalists and us, in point of doctrine, is
\ this: They believe that all the abominable characters
that disgrace tire earth, will be saved, and we deny it.
This is the exact point of difference between us; and
j hence we must contend, that, in order to make people
believe they are sincere, who profess to believe this doc­
trine; they must act out Sam Patch, and give us an ex­
periment: and then we will believe they are honest If
f we professed to believe that the wicked would be eternal­
lydamned, and at the same time be wicked ourselves,you
f would accuse us of hypocrisy and that justly too. Now
take the thing home, vice versa, and you will know what
| it takes to make a consistent, practical Universalist!
j 4. But stop here, it strikes me all at once, that there
is a difficulty about this Universal church. Since there
) is no body to bring into it, how happens it that Univer-
salists so frequently tell us of great numbers joining their
1 church? Who were these great numbers? and where
( did they get them? They could not have been great
numbers of the human species; for they tell us that the
whole human family are already members of their
church. But here again: how can they turn a man out?
| If the church is universal, so that there is no V
o
bringinto A; how they can get a man out, wVveu vYvexe
92 UN I VERS A LISM
is no place to get him out at* and no place for him to
stay after he is out, is a mystery beyond the comprehen­
sion of my feeble powers. Ah! says a Universalist, I
caii explain the mystery: The church being the whole
world, no man therefore can leave the church, only as
he dies and leaves the world; and if you should get in a
hurry to turn a man out, and cannot wait for him to leave
constitutionally; just kill him! Well sir, your explana­
tion is the best, doubtless, that can be given: yet it only
leaves Universalism in a worse predicament than ever.
As Christ is the Saviour of the body” and as Univer-
salists admit, the Saviour only of the members of his
church, it follows hence, that all who have been killed,
and all who have died a natural death, are eternally
lost; for they are turned out of the church, and Christ
is no longer their Saviour. And as all flesh so far, have
died except two, this thing of Universalism comes much
nearer a Universal damnation than any thing else!—
Here too Universalism is against itself; and according
to their own creed, they are compelled to admit, that all
the ruffians in creation, whether in the penitentiary or
out of it, are brethren in full fellowship and members in
regular standing in their church, at least as long as they
live!! If they deny this, which they cannot do consis­
tently; I would suggest the propriety of their commenc­
ing fellowship as soon as possible, in order to get used to
it against they are obliged to carry it on in another
.world. Or do they suppose that God will have a peni­
tentiary for them in heaven, in order to keep them away
from the righteous! Or do they fondly anticipate, that
the members of their church, who are now so unruly, and
incorrigible, that they have to be kept shut up in dun­
geons to protect society, will experience a change in the
resurrection, the fires of purgatory, or some other post
mortem department, and come out Christians, scorched
holy as the angels, and as pure as the spirits of just men
made perfect? Or do they expect that their ungodly
brethren, whom all the mercies and chastisements of the
L ord can not reform,—who died in dvew
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . N
go into eternity with all the hateful and corroding pas­
sions rankling in their bosoms,—their hands burning
with indignant hatred against their fellow mortals, and
their spirits thirsting for vengeance and blood, will be
reformed in eternity by that which fails to effect it in
timet Or do they suppose that the members of their
motley fraternity, will lose their personal identity,—
fall asleep liars, thieves and drunkards—and in the morn­
ing of the resurrection wake up sober, and honest men,
* and not know themselves? We leave it just here, for
Universalists to make the very best of it thev can: for
the Lord knows it is bad enough!
3 2
alive.
1 Cor. 15. 22. For as in Adam all die,
• even so in Christ shall all be made
1. This text is relied upon by Universalists with the
greatest assurance, as positive proof in favor of their
doctrine. It has been reiterated in books and periodi­
cals, enough to wear out a small bundle of quills: yet it
never has, nor never can be made to prove Universal-
, ism; but right the reverse, as we shall show. If we were
going to select any one chapter, with which to effectu-
> ally kill Uhiversalism, and bury it without the hope of
a rusurrection, it would be this very 15th chapter of 1st
Corinthians. As regards the correctness of our judg­
ment, the reader can decide when he hears what we
have to say upon the subject.
, 2. The verse at the head of this article is rendered by
Dr. Macknight thus: 4
4For as by Adam all die, even so
by Christ shall all be made alive.” This is proved to be
its correct signification, from the verse just proceeding it
“For since by man came death, by man came also the
resurrection of the dead: FOR [mark this!l as by Adam
all die, [or go down to the grave,] even so ft«# Otirisl,
I shall all be made alive,” (or, be raised from the
! A
D the Universalism there is about this text, \s
/'
94 U N IV E R S A L ISM
this: that there shall be a universal resurrection of all {
that have died* This however proves the salvation of *
none, much less all* It simply states the fact: that those ]
who have died by Adam, shall be made alive by Christ:
and what is to be done with them after they are thus i
made alive, the context and other portions ot the bible
must decide.
3. This text is of itself a perfect refutation of Uniyer-
salism. “As by Adam all die, EVEN SO by Christ, i
shall all be made alive." Just as they go down to the
grave by Adam, "even so,"—with the same moral char­
acter, shall they be made alive by Christ* If they die
in their sins, unsanctified and unholy, “ even so ” shall
they be made alive. If they die unjust, “ even so ” they
shall be made alive; for “ there will be a resurrection of
the dead, both of the just and the unjust” [Acts 24.15,]
and then will be brought to pass the saying that is writ­
ten: “ He that is unjust, let him be unjust still.” [Rev.
22. 11.] If they “ die in the Lord,” justified, pure, and
holy; “ even so ” they shall be made alive. You may set
this down, Universalism against itself, No. 1.
4. This view of the subject is proved to be correct,
from the following verse: “As by Adam all die, even so by i
Christ shall all be made alive; but, [mark this “ 5m*,”] eve­
ry man in hisown order, Christ the first fruits, afterwards
they that are Christs at his coming.” Here then we find
there is to be two orders in the resurrection; one order
for those that are Christs, and the other, for those that
are not his. This harmonizes with the “ resurrection of
thejust, and ofthe unjust ” precisely:—two orders! And
. witn the language of the Saviour: “ They that have
done good, [shall come forth,] to the resurrection of life,
and they that have done evil, to the resurrection of damr
nation:”—two orders! (John 5. 29.) And with the proph­
esy of Daniel: “ Many of them that sleep in the dust of
the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some
to shame and everlasting contempt:” two orders! (Dun.
12- 2.) And also with Paul to the Thessalonians: “ The
dead in Christ shall rise first:” \Vhs \tttpY\esa
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 95
here again we have the two orders! This counts Unir
versalism against itself, No. 2.
5. Universalista explain these different orders thus:
There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the
moon, and anotherglory of the stars, for one star differeth
from another star in glory: so also is the resurrection of
the dead.” (Verses 41. 42.) They contend that they
will all have glory like the stars; but some, not so much
as others. Suppose we should admit all this: Universal-
ism would lose much, and gain nothing; for Jude tells us
ofsome “stars to whom is reserved the blackness ofdark­
ness forever.” (Jude 13.) But it may be asked, how can
this agree with Paul, that every star possesses glory?
Perfectly. Paul tells of some men, who were “ the ene­
mies of the cross of Christ,”—“ whose glory is in their
shame,”—and “ whose end is destruction.” (Phil. 3. 18,
19.) Mark this down Universalista against itself, No. 3.
6. Some Universalista contend that this resurrection
signifies a moral change, or the conversion of the soul;
and as ail are to be made alive by Christ, or raised from
the dead; therefore all will be converted to Christ! If
Paul is speaking of the resurrection of the soul to a state
of holiness in this chapter, then it will make good sense
if we read it in this way: “ But some man will say: how
are the dead [sowZa] raised up, and with what body do
the dead fam/s] come.” So also is the resurrection of
the dead [soul;] it is sown in corruption, it is raised in
incorruption, it is sown a natural body, (!) it is raised a
spiritual body.” “ For the trumpet shall sound, and thé
dead [souls] shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be
changed; for this corruptible [soul] must put on incor­
ruption; and this mortal [soul] must put on immortal-9
rrr: so when this corruptible [soul] shall have put on
incorruption, and this mortal [soul] shall have put on
immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying
that is written: “Death is swallowed up in victory.”—
[Verses 35, 42, 44, 52, 53, 54.] Can Universalista
this! Perhaps they can; for a majority of them Y>e\\ev*
that the soul dies. Well one step farther; Pau\ AecXatea
9G UNLVERSALISM
Christ to be 4
4thefirstfru its ” of this resurrection: and j
if tins resurrection, mean conversion, then Christ is the 2
first convert to Christianity!!! Set this down: Univer-
salism against itself No. 4. 1
7. It is known to all, that Universalists generally de­
ny the resurrection of the body: and the reason they i
assign, is: that the body dies, and is consequently cor* ?
ruptible and material; and it decomposes, and is in- i
corporated in other bodies; and hence they infer the i
impossibility of its resurrection. Still they believe in the
resurrection of the dead; and as they do not believe in g
the resurrection of the dead body, it follows that they \
believe in the resurrection of the dead soul, which proves
that the soul dies. And since the soul dies as well as j
the body, it must also be.corruptible and material, ;
and consequently will decompose and be incorporated, <
(if not in other bodies) in other souls; and hence its re- \
sunection is just as impossible, as that of tho.body.— ;
Here we have Universalism coming out, and denying \
the resurrection altogether, and thus proving themselves •
to be that sect of Sadducees condemned by the Saviour, t
and those very heretics advertized by Paul 1800 years
ago, who teach that all the resurrection there is (which \
is the resurrection of Christ,) is passed already, and
thereby overthrow the faith of some! You may put this i
down: Universalism against itself No. 5.
8. But to return. 4
4Christ the first fruits, afterwards
they that are C hrists at his coming.” Universalists tell
Us that all are Christ’s, and consequently all will be sa­
ved. But the phrae “ they that cure Christ's'9shows plain­
ly that some arjg not his. It so happens, that we have
• this precise phrase in another place, which proves to a
demonstration that all are not Christ’s. 4
4
And thet
that are C hrist’s, have crucified the flesh with the
affections and lusts.” [Gal. 5. 24.J Do those who die
in their sins crucify the flesh with the affections and
lusts? When Paul says 44they which are of faith, the
same are the children of Abraham,” [Gal. 3. 7,] does it
n ot im ply that some have not ta\tVvt Xev. tot Ya\A
\
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 9T
Joe» »ay: “All men havenotfa ith ” [2 Thess.3.2.] But
we have the most unequivocal testimony that all are not
Christ’s. 4
4Now if any man have not the Spirit ofChrist,
he is none o f hisP5[Rom. 8.9.] Let us now inquire who
have the spirit? We shall first hear the Saviour: 4
4If ye
love me, keep my commandments, and I will pray the
Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he
may abide with you forever, even the Spirit of truth
whom the world cannot receive .
” [John 14. 15-17.] Who
can receive it? 4
4And we are his witnesses of these
things, and so is also the Holy Spirit whom God hath
given to them that obey him [Acts 5. 32.1 And/Jude
says: 4
4These be they who separate themselves; sensual,
having not the Spirit [Jude 19.] This then settles the
point, who are Christ’s, and who are not. Those who
obey him, have the Spirit, and such are Christ’s; whilst
those who are sensual have not the Spirit, and are not
Christ’s; and consequently will have no part with Christ
at his com ing. Universalists admit that this coming of
the Lord is yet future, and relates to the resurrection.
This proves, hot only that there will be a distinction at
the resurrection, between those that are Christ’s, and
those that are not; but also that the coming of the Lord
did not take place at the destruction of Jerusalem; and
thus we have Universalism against itself No. 6.
9. After the 23d verse, Paul speaks exclusively of the
resurrection of the saints, or the dead in Christ, and not
at all of those who die in their sins. This I will prove.
He does not intimate that the “ aff,” in verse 22, are to
beraised toincorruption,gloryhonor,immortality,power
andvictory, and possess the spiritual body#nd the image
of the heavenly. He does not, we say; intimate such a
thing; but after he brings in the two orders, he drops
the order of the wicked, and takes up the order of those
who have4
4fallen asleep in Christ*” [verse 18*] and con*
tinoes that order, exclusively to the close of that chap­
ter. W e risk the whole controversy upon this point;
and just as certain as we sustain our position,
ins falls to rise no morel M ark this: and a\\ w s safe, u
U N IV E R S A L IS M
9S
the reader’s indulgence for a few minutes. Now let Paul *
?'
tell who he is speaking of. 6
4As W E have borne the
image of the earthy, W E shall also bear the image of the •«
heavenly. Now this I say BRETHREN.” Ah! it is $
brethren, Paul is addressing; and now we can understand \
what he means by the pronoun “we:” it personates brethr a
ren, Christians, or the saints of all ages, and of every
Relime. Why did not Paul express himself as he did in *
verse 22. “ As all have borne the image of the earthy, i
even so all shall bear the image of the heavenly.” Paul
uses the word we, when the word all will not suit, unless
he should say “ we all ” meaning all Christians. The
word we occurs in verse 19. “ If in this life only WE
have hope in Christ.” Have all men hope in Christ}
Certainly not: none but Christians, and thus the apostle
employs the word we throughout this chapter.
Then he proceeds: “ Behold I shpw YOU a mystery:
WE shall not all sleep, but WE shall be changed, in a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump;
for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and WE shall be changed.” After this
the song of triumph is sung: “ O death where is thy
sting, O grave where is thy victory?” The apostle an­
swers: “ Thanks be unto God which giveth US the vic­
tory, through our Lord Jesus Christ (b e. in obedience to
our Lord Jesus Christ. See examination of Rom. 6. 23.)
“ Therefore ” adds the apostle, (i. e. from the fact, that
Í
rou are to obtain this ultimate, and triumphant victory
>
yobeying Jesus Christ our Lord,) “ Therefore my belov­
ed brethren,beyesteculfc&t,immovable, alwaysabounding
in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know [from
what I have just told you aboutgetting the victory through
obedience,] that your labor is not in vain in the Lord”
Their l a b o r , with respect to this victory would cer­
tainly have been in vain, had the wicked been just as
sure of H, as the righteous! Universalista, in order to
evade the force of this argument, must prove that the
word we, necessarily, and always means therwhole human
Amiljr without one exception. TYiVa aaarcv mo*
L
AGAINST I T S E L F . 99
positively with reference to Paul addressing the Corinth­
ians. W e will now admit it, for the sake of argument,
and see where it lands Universalism: 4
4For WE must
all appear before thejudgm ent seat ofChrist.” [2 Cor. 5.
10.] i. e. the entire posterity of Adam without one excep­
tion, m u s t a p p e a r (in the f u t u r e ) before the judgment
•eat of Christ, which cannot possibly be till after the
resurrection; for, when Paul penned that sentence mil-
, lions upon millions of the human race were already dead,
. and m eternity. Here these gentlemen must leave the
track, or we have Universalism against itself No. 7.
10. W e shall now presenta second argument in favor
!1 of the position that Paul is speaking only of the resur­
rection of the just; and this will be done by proving pos-
\ itively that the 44glory,” “ honor,” 44immortality,” 4
4in­
corruptibility,” 4
4power,” “victory,” “the spiritual body,”
’ and “ the image of the heavenly,” to which these dead
i here spoken of are to be raised, are all conditional, and
; depend upon the righteous conduct of men in this life,
i. If I sustain myself here: it will follow unavoidably, thát
i the wicked, who die in their sins, will not enjoy these
i unspeakable blessings, described in the foregoing lan­
guage; and consequently that they are not among the
number who are to be thus raised. Let us try it. “ To
1 them who by patient continuance in well doing seek
i for GLORY, and HONOR, and IMMORTALITY,
i eternal life.” [Rom- 2. 7.] Here goes three of the list
at one sweep! G lory, honor and immortality are
| therefore conditional, and depend upon a patient con­
tinuance in w ell doing. But how about incorrupti-
l klity? 4
4Every man that striveth for the mastery, is
temperate in all things; now they do it to obtain a cor­
ruptible crown, but.we an incorruptible.” 4
4So run
that you may obtain.” [1 Cor. 9. 24, 25.] Thus the
crown of incorruptibility is to be obtained by running,
and striving lawfully. The next in order is “power” Is
this conditional ? Paul is most satisfactory upon this point,
j « relating his own experience. “ Yea doubtless, \
/ count all things but loss for the-excellency of lY
vobuow
100 U N I V E R S A L ISM
ledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have sufi* *ed {
the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I j
may win Christ,—that I may know him, and the p o w e r
of his resurrection.” [Ph. 3. 8,10-] The power of Christ’s
resurrection is the same glorious power which the saints ^
are to experience, when they are 4
4raised in power,” and ,
their “ vile bodies are changed, and fashioned like unto ,
Christ’s glorious body;” which is, as Paul defines it:4
4the
power of an endless life? [Heb- 7. 16.] and is condition- ^
al, as declared in the text above quoted: Whilst the ?
wicked are to be eternally banished 4
4from the glory of
his power.” [2 Thess. 1. 9.] The 4
4victory” which the J
subjects of this resurrection are to obtain, we have al- ^
which is the same as in obedience to Jesus unnst. We ^
come next to the 4
4spiritual body”which signifies a body >
quickened by the Spirit. Is this conditional? Let this ^
same apostle decide: “ But IF the Spirit of him that ^
raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised £
up Christ from the dead, shall also quicken your mortal ?
bodies by his^ptrtV thatdwelleth in you.” [Rom. 8. 11.] ^
Thus the spiritual body; or quickening of our mortal ■
bodies by the Spirit, is proved to be conditional, and ,
depends upon men letting the Spirit of Christ dwell in ®
them here; for4
4if any man have not the Spirit of Christ ,
he is none of his,” and you recollect the apostle says:
4
4Christ the first fruits, afterwards they that are Christ's
* at his coming.” [Verse 23.]
And in the last place we ask: does the “image of the
heavenly ” depend upon conditions to be performed in
this life? This is the pivot upon which the whole mat­
ter now turns. We shall see. 4
4If children, then heirs,
heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ; IF SO BE ^
that we suffer with himj that we mav be also GLORI- '!
FIED TOGETHER.” What is this being glorified j
with C hrist7 Paul answers: “ Our conversation is in "
heaven, from whence we look for the Saviour, the Lord *
Jesus Christ; who shall change our vile body,that it may a
n
or
fir
r
r
r
n
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 101
>
6 FASHIONED LIKE UNTO HIS GLORIOUS BODY.” [Phil. 3.
il.] Thus we will be glorified together, or bear the intr,
tge of the heavenly, IF we suffer with him. Mark that
>ig if: for it proves to an absolute certainty, that those
vho will not suffer with him,—who will not take up their
;ross and follow him, will never be glorified with him;
ind ergo, will never bear his image.
This is taking Universalism upon new ground* which
vill keep it conjuring, inventing, new-vamping, and re-
nodeling its crippled and shattered fabrication, the re­
naming part of the nineteenth century, which then,
loubtless, cannot be made to stand without crutches.—
STow, as Universalists admit that these eight phrases just
examined, all refer to eternity,—to the resurrection state;
md since we have proved, from plain scripture testimony,
hat they are all conditional; you may, therefore,set this
iown Universalism against itself No. 8.
11. W e now present our third argument in proof of
the position, that when Paul speaks of the resurrection'
toa state ofimmortality andglory, he has reference only
tothe saints. We do this by proving, that in 1 Thess.
4th, Paul treats upon the same subject, and refers to the
same time precisely, that he does in 1 Cor. 15th. This
proved, and our position triumphantly defies the cavils
ofUniversalism, and the whole phalanx of its advocates.
We shall b o w compare these two chapters, and then
leave it to the candid to judge, whether they do or do
not relate to the same subject, and the same time. In
1Cor. Paul speaks of some who had seen Christ, as hav­
ing 4
4fallen a s le e p [verse 6] by which he means a natu­
ral death. This all admit. In 1 Thess. he uses the
word sleep in the same sense:141 would not have you to
be ignorant brethren concerning them which are asleep,
that ye sorrow not even as others which have no hope.”
(Verse 13.) The two chapters agree exactly thus far,
in the application of the word sleep: meaning thereby
the death of the body in both cases. Again. In 1 Cor.
he speaks of some being uasleep in C h r is t(verse
meaning also the death o f the body«as UnwersaWaXs ndr
i*
m U NIVERBALISM
mit* In 1 Thess. he makes use of the same phrase, with
the same signification* “ JFVif we believe that Jesus
died, and rose again, even so them also which sleep in
Jesus, will Godnring with him.” (Verse 14.) Mark the
word 4
4
/or,” at the commencement of this verse. It
brings in the reason why they should not sorrow (as he
had just told them)4
4concerning them which are asleep,”
(i. e. dead) because they 4
4which sleep in Jesus will God
bring with him.” This therefore has the same mean­
ing,—the death of the body;—here again the two chap­
ters agree. In 1 Cor. he speaks of the coming of the
Lord at the time of this resurrection; (verse 23.) and m
1 Thess. he speaks of the same thing:4
4For the Lord
himselfshall descend from heaven, with a shout, and the
voice ofthe archangel.” (Verse 16.) Ini Cor. he speaks
of the 4
4sound of the trum p” (verse 52,) at the time of
the resurrection. In 1 Thess. he speaks of the same
thing,—4
4the voice of the archangel, and with the ¿rump
of God” (Verse 16.) In 1 Cor. he speaks of some who
shall be alive at the time the Lord shall come to raise
the dead,—4
4Behold I show you a mystery: we shall not
all sleep*” (Verse 51.) And in 1 Thess. he speaks of the
same thing: 4
4This we say unto you by the word of the
Lord, that we which are alive, and remain unto the com­
ing of the Lord, shall not prevent them that are asleep”
(Verse 15.) In 1Cor. he speaks of a certain class being
raised to a state of glory, honor and immortality, when
the Lord shall come. He expresses it thus:4
4Christ the
first fruits, afterwards they that are Christs at his com­
in g ” (Verse 23.) This tells who are to have part in this
g lo r io u s resurrection when the Lord comes. It is4
4t h e y
t h a t a r e C h r is t ’s.” Every unprejudiced mind must
admit, we think, that the phrase 4
4t h e y t h a t a r e
C h r is t ’s” has the same meaning as 4
4t h e y w h ic h a r e
f a l l e n a s l e e p in C h r is t ;” which the apostle makes use
of just before. But as 1Thess. has so far exactlv agreed
in every point with 1 Cor. proving indisputably that
they both relate to the same event, and are both to be
understood literally; we shall therefore lei \ Thess. ex-
AGAINST I T S E L F . 103
plain who the apostle has reference to9when he says:
44t h e y t h a t a r e C h r is t ’s,” who are to be raised when
the Lord comes, at the sound of the 4
4l a s t t r u m p .” The
cause of Universalism now hangs upon this single point:
Does “ t h e y t h a t a r e C h r is t ’s,” who are to he raised
when the Lord comes, mean all mankind? 4
4The Lord
himself shall descend from heaven, with a shout, with the
voice of the archangel, and with the t r u m p or G od,
and the OirDEAD IN CHRIST s h a l l r is e f ir s t .”
(Verse 16.) “ T h e y t h a t a r e C h r is t ’s a t h is com ing.”
How exactly they coincide! “ T h e y t h a t a r e C h r is t ’s,”
is hereby proved positively to mean those “ t h a t s l e e p
in J e s u s ,” and not those who sleep in their sins; and just
so certain, those spoken of in 1 Cor. 15, who are to be
raised to g l o r y , and possess a s p ir it u a l body, and the
image o f C h r is t , are saints and not sinners. From all
this, we have two other texts put h * '* 1 "
versalism, and hurls the fragments to the four winds.—
tfI heard a voice from heaven saying unto me write:
blessed are the dead,that die in the L ord;” (Rev. 14.13.)
and they are not only blessed from the fact that they
‘ rest from their labors, and their works do follow them;”
[ibid.] but also, as we have seen, from the fact that4
4the
bead in C hrist shall rise first.” From this, Univer-
salists are compelled to admit “ the first resurrection”
to be literal. This they cannot avoid. With this ad­
mission before us we read: “ Blessed and holy is he that
hath part in th e first resurrection; on such the sec­
ond death hath no power.” [Rev* 20. 6.] We prove
four things bv this text, either of which refutes Univer­
salism: 1* That those who do not have part in the first
resurrection, will not be blessed: 2. That they will not
beh o l y ; so they will be neither HOLY nor HAPPY.
3. That on such the second death will have POWER;
and 4. That the second death is beyond the RESUR­
RECTION ! This counts UmverscUism against itself,
No. 9.
“ Thelasteaemy thatshall be destroyed
quibble; which effectually explodes
104 U N IV E R S A L IS M
(1 Cor. 15. 26.) This, we are told, proves that ail the *
enemies of man shall be destroyed. But we say it proves a
no such thing. Yet we will admit that it does, for the \ «
sake of argument; and let Universalists prop up their \m
cause if they can. Death is not the enemy of man, ao ^
cording to Universalism; for the more men die, the more
get to heaven! But who are the enemies of man? e
1. All wicked men are enemies to righteous men; for .=
Christ says:64Love your enemies.” Hence all the wick- r
ed will be destroyed at the resurrection, for, mark it: :
they are the ENEMIES OP MEN! So much Mr. r
Universalism, you get for that. -
2. All righteous men are enemies to wicked men; -
(Gal. 4. 16.) therefore all the RIGHTEOUS will be de- -
stroyed at the resurrection; and hence nobody will be ~
saved, neither good, bad, nor indifferent!
3. God is the enemy of man. Proof: “ But they re- -
belled and vexed his Holy Spirit, therefore he was turned s
to be their ENEMY.” (Is. 63. 10.) When Samuel i
came up out of his grave, he addressed Saul: 4
4Where- a
fore then dost thou ask of me, seeing the Lord is depart- *
ed from thee, and is become thine enemy!” (1 Sam. 28. \
16.) The Lord spake unto the Jews: 4
4But if thou shalt
indeed obey his [the angel’s] voice, and do all that I ;
speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies.” i
[Ex. 23. 22.] Hence, as all the enemies of man are to t
be destroyed, it follows incontrovertibly, that after the ,
resurrection, and through the countless ages of eternity,
there will be n o God!!! Here then you have Universal•
ism against itself, No. 10.
13. But these enemies that are to be destroyed are
enemies of Christ. Proof: 4
4Sit thou on my right hand
until I make thine enemies thy footstool,” [Heb. 1. 13.]
is the language of God to his Son. Who are these ene­
mies? Paul will answer. 4
4Many walk, of whom 1have
told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they
are the enemies o f the cross o f Christ, whose end is de­
struction?* .[Phil. 3.18,19.] Not only wicked men are
enemies, end will be destroyed*, but also the graoe,<Uotik
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 105
and the devil. But Universalists will tell us that the
wicked will be destroyed as wicked, yet they themselves
will be taken to heaven. Then, on the same principle,
death will be destroyed as death: yet death itself will be
taken to heaven! The grave will be destroyed as such;
yet the grave itself will be taken to heaven! Sin and
the devil will be destroyed as such; yet sin and the devil
will be saved in heaven with an everlasting salvation !!
What a heaven Universalists would make, if they could
only have their own way for it. But ask a Universalist
what he means by death and the devil being destroyed ?
and he will tell you at once: that they will no longer ex­
ist,—that they will be annihilated totally. Very good!
Then as wicked men are to be destroyed, they will con­
sequently be sent out of existence, or totally annihilated!
Hence Universalists, on their own principles, are com­
pelled to turn annihilationists, and thus renounce Uni­
versalism. You may mark this down: Universalism
against itself N a 11.
14. But Universalistsquote: 4
4For this purpose the Son
ofGod was manifest, that he might destroy the works of
the devil.” fl John 3. 8.] This is true: but I will prove
that wicked men are the works of the devil, and there­
fore they will also be destroyed. Let us try it. 4
4Ye are
of your father the devil,” says Christ; hence the devil is
the spiritual father of the wicked, and they are his spir­
itual children. Paul says to the Corinthian brethren:
441write not these things to shame you, but as my belov­
ed sons, I warn you.” \\ Cor*4.14.] Thus: these breth­
ren were Paul’s spiritual children. But what else does
Paul tell them? 4
4Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord?
are not ye m y work, in the Lord?” (1 Cor. 9. 1.) Thus,
the fact that they were Paul’s spiritual children, proved
that they were his work; hence the fact that the wicked
are the children of the devil, proves conclusively that
they are the works of the devil, and when Universalists
quote scripture to prove that the works of the devil shall
be destroyed, it is but another argument against
endthus we have Universalism against itself}o iaw iv s
UNI VERBALISM
1‘
JO
t im e s in one chapter! What think you will.it be, by
the time it gets through the bible?
9 9 Eph. 1.9-11. Having made known unto
us the mystery o f his will, according to
his good pleasure which he hath purposed in him­
self:that m thedispensation ofthe fullness of times,
he might gather together in one, all things in ^
Christ, both which are in heaven and which are ^
on earth: even in him, in whom also we have ¡3
obtained an inheritance, being predestinated ac- =
cording to the purpose of him who worketh all r
tilings after the counsel of his own will. ^
1. God made known the mystery of his will, thatma- ~
ny things m ight be done, which are not done. We will *
now prove this proposition: that whatever has been said
or done on the part of God, that he might accomplish a ^
certain object: if that object embraced the happiness ef ;
men, it depends wholly upon the actions of men for its e
accomplishment. One quotation, and this position is
fairly made out: “Looking for that blessed hope and the ^
flonous appearing of the great God, and our Saviour jj
esus Christ, who gave himself for us, that he MIGHT ■
redeem us from ALL INIQUITY and PURIFY unto •
himself a peculiar people, ZEALOUS OF GOOD <
WORKS.” (Ti. 2. 14.) Does it not depend upon the
actions of men, to be redeemed from all iniquity and to 1
be npeculiar people zealous ofgood works? Yes. Why 1
are not all men redeemed from all iniquity?and why are *
not all men purified unto Christ a peculiar people zealous *
ofgoodworks, since Christ gave himself that he MIGHT 1
thus purify and redeem them? Let Universalism an- 1
swer this, and it can then explain how it is, that God |
could make known his will, that he m ight gather all men i
into Christ, and yet that gathering not be accomplished. !
2. When was this gathering into Christ to be brought !
aboutf The text itself settles this. u ThaX \n
AGAINST ITSELF. 107
PENSATi¿ X OF THE FULLNESS OF TIMES, he
might gather together,” &c. The fullness of time was
atfhe first^coming of Christ; (Gal. 4. 4.) ana that fu ll•
n*$s o f tim e, has a dispensation; and that dispensation is
die Christian dispensation,—the dispensation of thefu ll-
ness o f tim es in which he has made known his will, that
he MIGHT gather men into Christ: and this WILL,
which God has made known, teaches, that in order to
come into Christ, and thus to be gathered together in
one, we must put him on in an act of obedience; (Gal. 3 .
27.) and Paul declares, that he had labored and preached,
according to this will, that he might 44
present every man,
perfect in Christ Jesus.” (Col. 1. 28.) Now since Uni-
versalists admit that this gathering men into Christ, ac­
cording to the w il l which God has made known, is ab­
solutely essential to their future and eternal salvation:
and since this gathering is to be accomplished here in
time; and since the apostles labored according to this
will, to bring men into Christ; and since wc have it pos­
itively declared in this w ith that a man, in order to be
in Christ must voluntarily put him on by submitting to
the gospel: it follows therefore incontrovertibly, that we
have Universalism against itself every time this text
is dragged into its service.
3. Neither does the fact that God 4
4worketh all things
after the counsel of his own w ill” help the cause of Uni
u*rsalism. His will, as we have seen, is the New Tes
tament. This is the will which he has 4
4made known,’
and he works all things according to it* Hence if any
man is worked from a sinner to a saint,—from sin to holi­
ness, or from earth to heaven, it must be according to the
New Testament, or not at all; for he works all things
according to the counsel of his own will. From this it
follows inevitably, that God will not work a man into a
Christian* and wash him from the stains of guilt, by any
physical operation at the resurrection, (as we have seen
m the article preceding this,) for this is not according
to the New Testament plan. Neither witt GoA work
aman over9 from a heap o f moral putrefaction* \i\ft
108 UNIVERBALISM
mysterious and unrevealed fires of purgatory, into the
image of purity; for upon this, the New Testament is
likewise silent. Hence if God take men to heaven ac­
cording to his will, (which must be the case if they are
taken there at all.) it can only be done by their obeying
the precepts which thatunit has laid down; which is only
another fair exhibition of Universalism against itself.
4. Universalists need not tell us, as they sometimes do,
that because God works “all t h in g s he will therefore
work universal salvation. This kind of logic would
prove more by far, than these doctors of universal divin­
ity would be willing to admit. We now turn it upon
their own heads, and prove that because God works “all
things” in an unlimited sense, he must therefore work
a universal and endless damnation! This is even worse
than Universalism against itself; for it is thus against
itself, and against every body in the universe. But ah!
says one, universal damnation isnot included in the “all
things” which God works. How do you know? Be­
cause, the New Testament does not teach it. Very
well sir, then just give up your Universalism, and say no
more about it; for we will, by the help of the Lord, con­
vince you, if you are an honest man, that the New Tes­
tament no more favors your doctrine, than it does the
rigmarole foolery of the Mormon bible. We now leave
this text, and Universalists are perfectly welcome to all
the assistance it affords them.
O y i Phil. 2.9-11. Wherefore God also hath
highly exalted him, and given him a
name which is above everyname: that at the name
of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in hea­
ven, and things in earth,and things underthe earth;
and that every tongue should confess, that Jesus
Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
Universalists argue from this text, that the entire hu.
man race will confess Christ to the ^ory \heV^
k
AGAINST ITSELF. 109
fre*, and hence all will be saved. If their premises here
were correct, I should not object to their conclusion:
but as the premises are false, the conclusion must also
be, if logically deduced.
The text does not read, (as Universalists generally
quote it) every knee s h a l l bow, and every tongue s h a l l
confess: but every knee sh o u ld bow, and every tongue
sh o u ld confess: and we know that men sh o u l d do a
great many things they will not do. Men sh o u ld love
their wives: yet some men do not. Men s h o u l d be hon­
est, yet some men cheat and steal. Men sh o u l d love and
respect their neighbors, yet they sometimes murder
them. The scriptures however are satisfactory upon
this point. Paul says: 4
4We sh o u ld live soberly, right­
eously and godly in this present world.” [Tit. 2.12.] Do
all men live soberly, righteouslyand godly in this present
world? The following texts will speak for themselves,
and show that men s h o u l d do some things which they
dojust as they please about, and consequently the fact
that they s h o u l d do them, is no proof that they will be
certainly accomplished.
4
4We also sh o u l d walkinnewness oflife.” [Rom. 6. 4.]
4
4Henceforth we sh o u l d n o t serve sin.” [Ibid. 6 .]
4
4We sh o u l d serve in newness of spirit.” [Rom. 7.
6.]
4
4They which live, sh o u ld n o t henceforth live unto
themselves; but unto him which died for them, and rose
again.” [2 Cor. 5. 15.]
4
4And they went out and preached that men sh o u l d
repent.” [Mark 6. 12.]
4
4Cause me to know the way wherein I sh o u ld walk.”
[Ps. 143. 8.]
4
4Teach them the good way wherein they sh o u ld
walk.” [1 Kings. 8. 36.j
We shall now present an exact parallel with this
proof-text. 4
4For the Father judgeth no man, but hath
committed all judgment to the Son, that all men should
honor the Son, oven as they honor the Father.”
A23.]
110 UNIVERSALISM
Christ being exalted that e v e r t t o n g u e sh o u l d con-
fess, is parallel with his having all judgment given to •
him, that all men sh o u ld honor him, yet who would be j
willing to contend that all men do honor the Son even c
as they honor the Father. How about the Jews? Now, s
the reason Universalists will assign why all men do not
honor the Son; we will assign why every tongue will ^
not confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God fc
the Father. But it may be said: God has foreordained c
that every tongue should confess, and therefore it must ]
be done. But God has foreordained that certain things G
sh o u ld be done, which are, or are not done, just as men >
feel disposed. For instance: Paul speaking of good ^
works, says: 44God hath before ordained that we
sh o u ld walk in them.” [Eph. 2. ID.] Yet we frequently
do not walk in these good works, as God has ordained r
we should. Hence, as this bowing and confessing is pro- B
ved to be voluntary obedience to be performed in this g
life; and since Universalists admit it to be essential to g
admission into heaven: it follows that man’s future des- £
tiny depends upon his conduct here, which is another l
specimen of Universalism against itself What ever s
Christ was exalted the first time to accomplish, will be ^
done in this life, if done at all. Proof: 4
4Him hath God ^
exalted with his right hand, to be a Prince and a Saviour, j
to give repentance to Israel, and theforgiveness o f sins.1
9 ^
JActs 5 .31.] Did the apostles, in all their preaching, ever ,
intimate that repentance and remission of sins belonged j
to the future state of existence? Nay verily. Hence as
it is on account of this first exaltation, that every knee
should bow, and every tongue should confess, it must be l
evident therefore that this likewise is confined to the |
present state of existence. Here it is, that4
4With the
mouth confession is made unto salvation.” [Rom. 10. 10.] I
Thus says the Saviour:4
4Whosoever therefore shall con-
iess me before men, him will I confess also before my
'ather which is in heaven.” [Math. 10. 32.] Yet many
will not confess him, as we read:4
4Nevertheless among
the chief rulers also many believed ouYnm,b\v\.\>ee»»sfe
u
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . Ill
ofthe Pharisees they did not confess him,lest they should
he pot out of the Synagogue.” [John 12. 42.]
But the context is against Universalism, and therefore
the text itself cannot favor it*, for the text and the con­
text must agree. Hence Universalism is against itself
No. 2., by quoting this text. Let us see. 4
4Wherefore,”
(i. e. from the consideration that every knee should
bow, and every tongue should confess, winch Universal*
ists acknowledge to be a means of our immortal salva­
tion.) 4
4Wherefore------work out your salvation with
fear and trembling,” [verse 12,] which is the same thing
as the bounng and confessing in the preceding verse. It
cannot, with any propriety, be said that this salvation
which those Christians were to work out, refers to the
present salvation from sin; for they were addressed as
“ saints in Christ Jesus;” [Phil. 1. 1.] and consequently
they enjoyed the present salvation, and hence, the salva­
tion which they w ere4
4to work out,” must necessarily,
and indisputably signify the future salvation beyond the
grave.
But lastly, we have Universalism against itselfNo. 3.,
by admitting, and contending that “ e v e r t ” means the
whole without exception. 4
4Behold he cometh with
clouds, and e v e r t eye shall see him.” piev. 1. 7.] Que­
ry: Did the whole human family see Christ come at the
destruction of Jerusalem? If not, then Universalism is
false. Here then we leave this text, and at the same
time leave Universalism gasping for life, swinging upon
the prongs of three inflexible dilemmas.
O J jt Phil. 3. 21. According to the working
whereby he is able even to subdue all
things unto himself.
Universalists contend that the su b d u in g of all things,
means the s a l v a t io n of all things. But are they certain
that s u b d u e means to s a v e ? Not quite. 4
4Thou- shalt
build bulwarks against the city that makelVi war w
V
fcv
thee, until it be subdued.” [Dea. 20.20.] i*e. aaved\
lift UNI VERBALISM
they slew of Moab at that time about ten ¿¿Kr^sand men, n
all lusty, and all men of valor, and there escaped not a f
man: so Moab was su bd u ed .” [Jud. 3. 29.] i. e. sa v ed I ra
expect, by being killed, and sent offto heaven!
Once more: 4
4And he smote them from Aroer, even g
till thou come to Minith, even twenty cities, and unto |
the plain of the vineyards with a very*great slaughter;
thus the children of Ammon were su bd u ed .” [Jud. 11.
33.] i. e. they were sa v ed with a very great slaughter!! *
Wonder if that is the way the wicked are to be saved, E
at the resurrection?
The word su b d u e occurs thirty-one times in the bible, ?
and in not one instance does it mean to sa v e , nearly al- t
ways to d estr o y . Among the all things which Christ is ~
to subdue are included sin , d e a t h , h a d e s and the d e v il . ^
Do Universalists believe that all these will be saved? 1 ~
think hardly: and hence they have to admit that the
word subdue does not mean to save9and consequently it j
is the old song,— Universalism against itself. A nation £
may be subdued, and instead of being saved, every one r
may be massacred. But let us ask Paul, if by Christ ~
being able to subdue all things, he wishes us to understand u
that he is able to save all? The apostle answers No:— 2
4
4He is able to save to the uttermost, all those that come t
unto God by him.” [Heb. 7. 25.] According to this, *
notwithstanding he is able to subdue all^yet he is only j
able to save those who come unto God. Thus the words r
subdue and save cannot mean the same thing. But Uni- g
versalists, in order to keep their old ship from sinking *
as long as possible, will appeal to 1 Cor. 15. 28. 4
4Ana %
when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the t
Son also himself be subject unto him.” From this it is a
contended that Christ is to be subject, or subdued in the .
same sense of the 4
6all things.” Let us admit this, and I
it follows irresistibly, that no man will be subdued in the [
resurrection, in the sense of being saved from sin; for [
certain it is, that if Christ be subdued at all, it will not
be in this sense. Hence the 4
4all things ” which are to a
be subdued must necessarily be Vvmvted to toe xi^vteous ^
AGAINST I T S E L F . 113
exclusively, i. e. providing it be understood in the same
sense of the subjection of Christ; and here again wc have
Universalism against itself\
9 4 3 Col. 1. 20. And having made peace
through the blood of his cross by him
to reconcile all things unto himself, by him I say,
whether they be things in earth, or things in
heaven.
This text does not teach, as Universalists assert, that
all things w il l b e reconciled; but that Christ has mode
peace TO reconcile all things. Yet all things may not
be reconciled; from the fact that Christ died, and made
peace that many things might be done, which are not
done. And thus Paul declares, that by the grace of God
he had preached the unsearchable riches of Christ4
4TO
make all men seeP [Eph. 3. 9.] Yet all men will noi
see, for some 4
4men love darkness rather than light, be­
cause their deeds are evil.” (John 3. 19.) Suppose we
should admit (which we do not) that Christ having made
peace t o reconcile all things, proves that they absolutely
will be reconciled; still it would be a difficult task for
Universalists to prove that all things means the whole
human family. The phrase all things occurs four times in
the verses preceding this proof-text. 4
4For by him were
aU things created, that are in heaven, and that are in
earth— all things were created by him and for him; and
he is before all things, and by him all things consist.”—
(Verses 16.17.) “All things,” in these instances, signifies
not only all mankind, but all the animal, vegetable, and
mineral kingdoms. Now as Universalists do not profess
to believe that all the animals, vegetables and minerals
which Christ has created will be reconciled, and taken to
heaven, it follows therefore that all things, when spokeu
of in connection with reconciliation must be limited.
But how much? We would say, to all things that can he
reconciled; which would leave out the finally uvcoxxWv-
10 ■
114 U N IV E R S A L IS M
bJe sinner, as well as the crocodile. But Universalists
will tell us, that Christ made peace to reconcile all things
that need to be reconciled. Then we reply: Christ
made peace, not only to reconcile all things that need
reconciliation, but also to reconcile them when they need
it. Men need reconciliation now; yet Universalists are
compelled to admit that all men are not now reconciled.
Hence if there be a failure in one thing, as we see there
h, may there not also be a failure in the other, and all
things not be reconciled, notwithstanding Christ made
peace that this might be accomplished. Here Univer­
salism is perfectly stranded.
But Universalists quote Rom. 5. 10. to prove that all
who are reconciled will be saved. 4
4Much more being
reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.” This however
is a fatal text to Universalism. It proves that the future
salvation of men, depends upon 44being reconciled,” in
the present tense; and as Universalists admit that the
future salvation depends upon present reconciliation;
and since Paul declares:4
4We pray you, in Christ’s stead,
b e y e reconciled to God,” [2 Cor. 5. 20,] proving it to be
conditional; it follows therefore that the iuture salvation
depends upon conditions to be performed in this life,
which is another clear demonstration of Universalism
against itself.
But in order to correctly understand this subject we
remark, that God has always had a time when, a place
where, and means by which he performs every thing.—
Hence, if men are to be reconciled to God, the scriptures
must point out the time, place, and means for its accom­
plishment. Let us examine, 1. The time. 4
4You that
were some time alienated, and enemies in your mind by
wicked works, yet NOW hath he reconciled” (Col. 1.
21.) This decides the time when men are to be recon­
ciled. It is 4
4now” 2. The place. 4
4For to make in him­
self of twain one new man, so making peace, and that
he might reconcile both unto God^ in ONE BODY.”
(Epb. 2. 16.) The one body is the place: but what is to
be understood by the one bo'lyl o&vKetv. AtA
AGAINST IT SE L F. 11»
gave him to be head over all things to the church, which
is his body” [Eph. 1. 22, 23.1 3. The means by which
this reconciliation is to be effected* “ All tilings are of
God who hath reconciled us unto himself by Jesus Christ,
and hath given unto us the MINISTRY of reconcilia-
tion,—and hath committed unto us the word of reconcil­
iation? [2 Cor. 5. 18,19.] Thus the m inistry,—the
word, or the preaching of the gospel is the means by
which men are to be reconciled to God, or saved: for the
gospel, Paul declares,4
4is the power of Chd unto salva­
tion? [Rom* 1. 16.] In order now that Universalists
make this proof-text harmonize with their doctrine, they
must prove three things. 1. That the gospel will be
B
reached in eternity to those who die unreconciled* 2.
'hat the ordinances of the gospel will be administered
in eternity, to admit them into the 4
4one bodyp and 3.
That eternity is 4
4now? If Universalists preach to sin­
ners, that they will be reconciled by any other means
than by the m inistry of the word,—in any other place
than the one body,—and at any other time than n o w ;
they will preach “ another gospel,” and Paul says: “ Let
them be a c c u rse d [Gal. 1. 8.J
But lastly: Universalism is against itself by bringing
this text to its support, when the context pointedly con­
tradicts it 4
4Yet now hath he reconciled in the body of
his flesh, through death, to present you holy, and unblam­
able, and unreprovable in his sight, [unconditionally!
No! no! says Paul] IF ye continue in tne f a it h , g r o u n d ­
ed, and s e t t l e d , and a x n o t m ov ed a w a y fr o m t h e h o p e
o f t h e g o s p e l *” [Verses 21-23.] Thus, all the argu­
ment based upon the unconditional reconciliation of
men to God, vanishes before this one declaration of the
apostle* It proves, not <jnly that reconciliation is condi­
tional; but it also proves, that men who are reconciled,
in order to be presented holy, and unblamable, and tm-
reprovable in the sight of God, must c o n t in u e in the
f a it h , or in other words, must hold out f a it h f u l t o t h e
end. This witness is alone sufficient to condemn \3nv
rentalism; and we shall not plead its cause, fox V
U
i non.-
demnation isjust.
116 UNI V E R B A L ISM '
•O W 1 Tim. 2. 3, 4. For this is good and
• • acceptable in the sight of God our Sa­
viour, who will have all men to be saved, and to
come unto the knowledge of the truth.
, 1. Before this text can be made to favor Universaiism,
several things must be proved. It must, in the first place,
be proved that this text refers to eternity, as the period
when men are to be saved, and come to the knowledge
of the truth. Universalists so understand it; but let this
be once made out, and we have Universaiism against it­
self: for if men are saved in eternity, there must be some­
thing in eternity to be saved from, which Universalists
deny. But to evade this, they may take the ground that
there will be no sin nor misery in eternity to be saved
from, but that it simply has reference to a salvationfrom
the grave. Suppose we admit this; it comes far short
of proving that all men will be made holy and happy;
for they may be saved, or delivered from the grave, ana
afterwards condemned, as an abundance of scriptures
pointedly teach. Jude, referring no doubt to this very
thing, warns the brethren as follows: 441 will therefore
put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this, how
that the Lard having saved the people out of the land
of Egypt, afterwards destroyed them that believed not.”
(Jude 5.) Thus may they be saved from the grave, and
afterwards destroyed. So Universaiism must conjure
up some new exposition of this text, or remain forever
against itself.
2. Let us inquire: when is the time to come to a
knowledge of the truth? If Universalists say in eterni*
K
* ; then we can prove that they can sin in eternity, for
lul says:4
4If we sin wilfully, after that we have receiv­
ed the knowledge ofthe truth.” (Heb. 10. 26.) But what
time does the Saviour point out? 4
4If ye continue in rpy
word, then are ye my disciples indeed, and ye shall know
the truth, and the truth shall make you free,” (Jo. 8. 31,
32,) which is the same ihmjs as to coma \o \Y
vatawioUdg*
AGAINST IT S E L F . 117 .
» me truth and besaved. Thus wc perceive that n o w is
toe time to come to the knowledge of the truth; and
Christ teaches that none can have that knowledge, only
such as continue in his word; and as Universalists admit
that coming ' 1 ’' 1 “the truth is essential to
conditional, w ^ discover Universalism
against itself.
3. As we have seen that n o w is the time when God
wills that men should come to the knowledge of the truth
and be saved; it follows therefore that Goa’s will is frus­
trated; for we know that all men are not now saved.—
Universalists must necessarily prove that the m il of God
will certainly, and in all cases be performed, before this
text will favor their theory, and then they would contra­
dict existing facts. The context of this verse shows that
God wills things that are not done. W
I will therefore
that men pray every where,lifting tip holy hands.” (Verse
8.) Do men pray everywhere lilting up holy hands?
If not, then what proof is there, that his willing all men
to be saved, is any more likely to be accomplished? (See
examination of John 6. 39.)
4. But it may be said, if God desires the salvation of
all men, and all are not eventually saved then he must
possess an ungratified desire to all eternity! Wc shall<
set this objection aside for the present, by turning ith
against Universalism. God, as we have seen, wills and
desires that all men should be saved in this life. Now
since all men are not saved in this life, it follows that
God will eternally possess an ungratified desire, even if
all should be saved in the future life. For the fact that
all are not saved in this life, will remain a fact eternally,
and the desire which God had for their present salva­
tion, will never be accomplished, unless they are actu­
ally saved in this present state of existence. Will Uni­
versalists say that the fact that all will be saved in the
next life, will dispose of the matter; and the desire which
God had for their salvation here, will ceaaet 'N e
can, on the same principle, argue that the fact ot
our future hence that heaven is
118 U N IV E R S A L ISM
wicked being finally destroyed in the next life, will settle
the matter in the mind of God; and the desire which he
entertained for their salvation here, will necessarily
cease!
5. But are Universalists sure that aU men, will em­
brace the whole human family? Not exactly. But they
will tell us it is the same cdl men for whom Paul exhorts
us to pray; and consequently must mean the entire pos­
terity of Adam. But not quite so fast. Do Universal­
ists believe in praying for the dead? I think not. Then
ALL does not here mean a mathematical whole. Do
they pray for the salvation of Enoch and Elijah? If
not, then cdl men in this verse cannot, themselves being
judges, embrace all mankind without exception, which
again gives us Universalism against itself. But the ob­
jector urges, that cdl men must at least embrace all the
wicked that are now alive, as well as the righteous: and
hence, as we are to pray for the salvation of all the wick­
ed, we must believe therefore that they will be saved;
for we are commanded to 4
4ask in faith.” (Jam. 1. 6.)
But in reply to this, I would inform Universalists that
when I pray for the salvation of the wicked, I pray con­
ditionally, that is, I pray God to save them, if they turn
from their wickedness; and I pray in faith, firmly believ­
ing that they will be saved if they reform. Still I do
not pray for all men universally, even in this sense.—
John says:4
4There is a sin unto death,” [t John 5. 16,]
and forbids us to pray for it. There were also a class of
men in the days of Jeremiah, for whom God would not
allow his people to pray. 4
4Therefore pray not thou for
this people, neither lift up cry nor prayer for them,
neither make intercession to me: for I will not hear
thee.” (Jer. 7. 16.) Universalists place great stress up­
on this matter of praying for the salvation of all men.—
They tell u's we must positively believe that they will be
saved, or we cannot pray consistently. Let us see.now if
in this case also we cannot turn Universalism against
itself. Paul testifies:4
4
At my fttsl answer wo man stood
with m e, but all men forsook me*. \ pray God, 'foaxW
AGAINST I T S E L F . 119
may not be laid to their charge ” (2 Tim. 4.16.) Univer-
salists contend that God has irrevocably decreed, that
every sin a man commits must be laid to his charge, and
Smishment for the same, must inevitably be inflicted.
ow if Paul was a Universaiist, as they contend, he, as
a matter of course, believed that their sin would be laid
to their charge: yet he prayed God that it might not
be; which was praying for a thing he absolutely knew
would not be granted! Did Paul pray in faith? How
can Universalists dispose of this difficulty? In no possi­
ble manner except by coming out honestly, and renounc­
ing their doctrine, and admitting that Paul was not a
Universaiist. Paul, not being a Universaiist, could pray
that their sin might not be laid to their charge, upon the
same principle, that he could exhort us to pray for the
salvation of the wicked, i. e. upon the condition of their
reformation and obedience.
6. But it is contended that the verses immediately
following this text, are in favor of Universalism: 4
4There
is one God, and one Mediator between God and men,
the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all
to be testified in due time.” (Verses 5,6.) It is assumed,
that because Christ gave himself a ransom for all, there­
fore all will be ransomed. But a ransom may be pre­
pared, and yet men may never be ransomed, because
they will not accept it. A physician may prepare med­
icine for a whole town, but one half of them may refuse
to accept it and must consequently die. Those who,
through submitting to the gospel, receive an application
of Christ’s blood, are ransomed, and we read: 44The
ransomed of the Lord shall return and come to Zion, with
songs and everlasting joys upon their heads; they shall
obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall
flee away.” (Is. 35. 10.) If the bare fact of Christ giv­
ing himself as a ransom, is all that is necessary in order
that men may be ransomed, why were not all ransomed
the instant the ransom was made? The fact that they
were not, proves plainly that Christ, having ione
pert, has left the remainder for us to do, ot never
Jbe benefit o f that ransom•
UNIVERSALISM
120
7. Universalists contend that the word * a ll” embra- ?
ces the whole human fam ily. This position destroys :i
their doctrine; fpr Jude says: 4
4Behold the Lord cometh 5
with ten thousand of his saints, to execute judgment upon 1
a ll” (Jude 14« 15,) i* e* the whole human family: which -
certainly was not at the destruction of Jerusalem;—but i
must necessarily be at the resurrection of the dead; and
thus, instead of having a universal salvation, it comes 5
much nearer a universal damnation; for he is 4
4to execute 1
judgment upon ALL;” that is, the whole human' family.
Here again is Universalism against itself; and even so
let it be! :~
1. Tim. 4. 9, 10. This is a faithful say-
ing and worthy of all acceptation: for
therefore we both labor and suffer reproach, be­
cause we trust in the living God, who is the Sa­
viour of all men, specially of those that believe.
1. It is contended that God is the Saviour of all men
in the sense of salvation from sin; and that this salva- 3
tion refers to eternity. This being true; then there is ,
sin in eternity to be saved from: and as Universalists 3
tell us that sin and misery are always inseparably con- ,
nected, and as all men are to be saved from sin in eter- ,
nity: it follows therefore that all men will be sinful and -
miserable in eternity, which Universalists positively de- j
ny; which gives us another specimen of Universalism ]
against itself!
2. But the text speaks of God as the Saviour of all
men in the present tense: 4
4Who IS the Saviour of all
men;” not who WILL BE the Saviour of all men at the
resurrection. God was the Saviour of all men. in the
days of Paul, and has been ever since, and yet all men
have not been saved. Now if God can be the Saviour
of all men 1800 years, without saving them, may he not
be the Saviour of all men forever on the same principle«
¿wdy e t some men be eternally losVt Sotne xnitavftana
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 1S1
tht God is the Saviour of all men in a temporal sense:
but this does not, in my judgment, appear to be the na»
tural sense of the text, for two reasons. 1. The apos­
tles never, to my recollection, have used the word Sa­
viour in this sense when applied to men under the Chris­
tian dispensation; and 2. God is not the Saviour of all
men in a universal sense temporally, for millions have in
this sense been lost; but if * all m en” is to be limited, as
it most probably is, then there is no necessity of confin­
ing it to this life, in order to refute Universalism. God
can be the Saviour of all men in a spiritual sense, and
all not be saved; just as Christ can be the Saviour of the
world, and yet a part of the world be eternally lost. The
same way Universalism can be routed from one, they
can also be made to yield the other. [See examination
ofJohn 4. 42.1
3. But do Univeirsalists believe that God is the Saviour
ofail men in the sense of the entire human race? They
do not, and hence this text does not prove Universalism,
let them make the best of it they can. Do they believe
that all the human race will be saved from sin? No,
for they contend that all who die in infancy, which is a
large portion of them, are perfectly pure,and uncontam-
mated by sin; hence if the whole human family are to
be saved, it cannot mean a salvation from sin; so Uni-
versalism has to give up that point. But can it mean a
salvation from the grave, and be understood in a Uni­
versal sense ? No, for Universalists will not contend that
Enoch and Elijah will be saved from the grave; neither
will those, who are alive and remain at the time of the
resurrection, (which in all probability will be millions,)
be saved from the desolations of the tomb. All men
universally cannot be saved from an everlasting destruc­
tion beyond the grave; for Universalists tell us there is
no such a thing to be saved from, nor never will be: and
as for all men being universally saved from an everlast­
ing destruction in mis life, none but the Jews at the de-
I tt U N IV E R S A L I6M
compelled to admit, that all men—universally—will not
be saved in any sense.
4. But in the last place we have Universalism against
itself by quoting a.text to sustain itself, when the con­
text condemns it; “ For bodily exercise profiteth little,
but godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise
of the life that now ¿9, and of that which is to come.”
(Verse 8.) “ This [mark it!] is a faithful saying, and
worthy of all acceptation,” i. e. that eternal life,—the life
which is to come is conditional, and depends upon our
practicing godliness. This is what the apostle declares
to be \hefa ith fu l saying, which is worthy of all accep­
tation; and not that all men will be saved uncondition­
ally, whether they practice godliness or not!
3 9
men*
Titus 2. 11. For the
• bringeth salvation hai
[race of God that
l appeared to all
1. Universalists tell us that the correct translation of
this text is, that “ The grace of God that bringeth sal­
vation to all men, hath appeared." To this we shall not
object. But it is one thing to bring salvation to a man,
and it is another thing for him to accept it. This text
does not say: “ the grace of God which will bring sal
vation to all men at the resurrection of the dead;” bul
in the present tense,—*bringeth salvation;” whici
proves to a demonstration, that Paul is speaking of s
present salvation; which fact of itself destroys Univer
salism, as far as this text is concerned; for no man, how
ever tenacious for the doctrine, will contend that all men
do enjoy the salvation which the grace of God bringeth,
in the present tense. From the fact that God bar
brought salvation to all men, he therefore “ commands
aU men every where to repent,” [Acts 17.30,] and that
repentance which is “ to salvation.” [2 Cor. 7. 10.]
2 T fo context carries out the same cause-
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . m
quently is opposed to Universalism. “ The grace of God
that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teach­
ing us;”—Ah! this grace teaches something: but whatt
Why, Universalism of course,—that all the ungodly and
profane,-r-that all liars, thieves, drunkards, murderers
of fathers, and murderers of mothers; that all who are
abominable,—who live all their lives without hope and
without God ip the world, and die in their sins;—that
aU such abominable characters are just as sure of eter­
nal salvation, without a single act of obedience, as the
humblest saint who dies in the Lord. This I admit is
what the grace of God teaches; that is, providing it
teach Universalism. But let us hear what raul says it
teaches. “ Teaching us, that denying ungodliness and
worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and
godly in this present world.” [Verse 12.] But does our
Bving godly in this present world, have any thing to do
with the life to come. Yes, says the apostle: “ G o d li­
ness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the
life that now is, and that which IS TO COME.” [1
Tim. 4. 8.J And thus we discover most clearly, that
Universalism is against itself, by bringing Titus 2* 11.
to its support
y | f t Heb. 3. 9. But we see Jesus who was
made a little lower than the angels, for
the suffering of death, crowned with glory pnd
honor, that he by the grace of God should taste
death for every man.
Universalists contend, that because Christ tasted death
for every man, therefore every man will be saved from
this death which Christ tasted" This might all be true,
and yet Universalism be false. But let us inquire what
death Christ tasted. He did not taste a moral death, or
adeath in sin; for he “ did no sin, neither was guile found
inhis mouth.” [1 P et 2. 22.] Hence Universal* caxv-
1*4 UNIV ERSA LISM
not infer from this text, that all men will be delivered
from sin; and they will not contend that Christ tasted
an endless death;, for they tell us there is no such a death
to be tasted by any one» Hence it must be the- literal
death of the body, which Christ tasted for every man;
and if all men are saved from this death, that is, deliv­
ered from the grave, it will not prove them to be holy
and happy; for, as I have before shown, the wicked will
be saved or delivered from the grave* and afterwards
destroyed» So Universalism gains nothing from this
text.
2. But it is contended that every man, means the
whole human family without exception. This admitted,
and we have Universalism against itself; for the Saviour
declares, that when he shall come in the glory of the
Father, and with his angels, that “ then he shall reward
every man according to his works,” [Math. 16. 27,}
i. e. the whole human family without exception are to
be rewarded according to their works when the Lord
shall come; which proves that the Lord did not come at
the destruction of Jerusalem, and that he will not come
till the resurrection of the dead. Again.: “ Who tsiB
render to every man according to his works." (Rom. 2.
6.) This agrees perfectly with the declaration of the
Saviour just quoted, and thus Universalists have to ad­
mit, that at the resurrection of the dead, the whole hu­
man race will be rewarded according to their works;
Let them get out of this dilemma if they can»
yM "■ Heb. 8.11,12» For all shall know me,
* * • from the feast to the greatest, for I will
be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins
and their iniquities, will I remember no more.
“ For all shall know me from the least to the greatest.*
All who? The answer is given in the preceding verse:
This is the covenant that I will make with the house
ofIsrael after those days» saith the Lord." (Verse 10.)
AGAINST n P S B L ï\ m
If this promise is to be understood in an unconditional,
or absolute sense, still it would only prove the salvation
of all the Jews from the least to the greatest who were
living at the time the covenant was made, and not those
who had lived before, or who should live afterwards.—
Proof: 4
4To whom they all gave heed from the least is
thegreatest* (Acts 8. 10.) Did all the Samaritans who
would ever live, who were then living, or who had ever
Jived, give heed to Simon the sorcerer, and say he was
the great power of God? No: none of the Samaritans,
except those who were then living at that time. Again:
God speaking of the Jews because of their disobedience,
says: 4
4They shall even be consumed bv the sword, and
by the famine; they shall die from the feast even to the
greatest.” [Jer. 44. 12.] This text will spèak for itself.
Once more. 4
4So the people of Nineveh believed God,
and proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth from the
greatest of them even to the least of them.” (Jonah 3. A)
No one understands this to embrace more than the Nin-
evites who were then living. From this it follows, that
the phrase:4
4All shall know me from the least to the
greatest? does not mean any more than those Jews who
were alive when the covenant was made» which was in
the days of the apostles; and as we have positive proof
that none were forgiven under the apostles9administra­
tion, except upon the condition of submitting to the gos­
pel, it follows hence, that there is a condition implied in
this promise, as in the promise to Abraham. (See ex­
amination of Gen. 22. 18.)
Æ jS b. 1 Jonn 2.2. .And he is the propitiation
• • for our sins, and not for ours only, but
far the sins of the whole world.
I. It is said, if Christ shed his blood to make a propi­
tiation for the sins of the whole world, and if the whole
world is not saved, then part of Christ’s blood
bee? shed in vain. Thiehowever is but a fair tpec&TOMioli
U N IY E R 8 A L I SM
IM
that sophistry of which Universalisai is master. If but
one man was saved through thé blood of Christ, not one
drop of his blood would be shed in vain; for it takes all
his blood to save one man; seeing it took all his blood to
make a perfect sacrifice, and a perfect atonement; and
the same perfect atonement that would save one man
through submission to the divine economy, will save all
men if they submit in like manner. The arrangement
which placed the sun in the heavens, to give light to the
whole earth will illustrate this. If a hundred men should
crawl into some cave, and then complain, if the sun did
not bend its rays, to shine upon them in their dark re­
treat, that part of the sun would shine in vain; what
would Universalists think of them? They would laugh
at such simpletons, and tell them that it took the whole
sun to shine for one man, and the same luminous sub­
stance, which was sufficient to give light to one man,
would be all sufficient to enlighten the whole earth; and
if a million of ignoramuses like themselves, should hide
in dens and caves of the earth, no part of the sun would
shine in vain as long as there was one man left to enjoy
the light So it is with the blood of Christ, u which is
shed tor many for the remission of sins." (Math. 26. 28.)
If men will accept of the propitiation thus made, they
will enjoy its benefits; but if they, like the foolish men
in the similitude, hide themselves in the caves and dens
of moral corruption and depravity, the rays of the Sun
ofRighteousness will never reach them.
2. Universalism will in this case also be shown to be
against itself. It is contended most positively that “ the
whole world”means the whole race of Adam without ex­
ception. In the next chapter the apostle declares that,
The whole world lieth in wickedness.” [1 John 5. 19.]
That is,the entire posterity ofAdam, in the present tense,
lieth in wickedness! Now, since millions of the human
family were then in eternity, and at the same time lying
in wickedness; and as sin and misery go hand in hand, it
follows that, for thousands of years, all mankind who had
f died were suffering torments in the eternal, world. If
AGAINST ITSELF. 1ST
this is not Universalism against itself\I confess I know
not what is. But the phrase: u the whole world™ and
“all the world” does not in one single instance mean all
mankind in the sense oftotality. We have an example
in Luke: “ And it came to pass in those days, that there
went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the
world should be taxed.™[Luke 2.1.] DidM
all the world n
m this decree embrace the antediluvians? No. Did it
include modem Universalists? No. Then all the world
might be saved, and still Universalists and the antedilu­
vians might be exceptions.
yfl O Rev. 5 .13. And every creature which
* * 1
• is in heaven, and on the earth, and under
the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that
are in them, heard I saying, blessing, and honor,
and glory, and power be unto him that sitte'h
upon, the throne, and unto the Lamb forever and
ever.
1. In connection with this text is generally quoted
Ps. 50. 23: “ Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me.™ But
let us see if all this proves Universalism. I have no
doubt but that I believe this text more firmly than do
Universalists. The sequel will determine. Every crea­
ture was heard to praise God. This proves too much
for Universalism, for every creature will embrace all the
beasts of the field, fowls of the air, fish of the sea and
creeping things; and hence if this proves salvation in
heaven to any, it proves the salvation of all the horses,
cows, fend sheep in the universe, for they are all crea-
tnres. Bppf: “ This is the law of the beasts, and of the
fowl, ancu>f every living creature that moveth upon the
waters, and of every creature that creepeth upon the
earth.” [Lev. 11. 46.] And Paul speaking of different
kinds of meat says: “ Every creature of God is ^ood”
Tim. 4 .4.] But IfaiVersalists will endeavor \o avdviaxxOa
\
i » U N IV ERSA LISM
absurdities; and will tell us that it is unreasonable tosup­
pose that brute beasts could praise God; and hence they
are not included among the number to be saved. But
Peter speaks of some men who had become tt as natural
brute beasts, made to be taken anddestroyed;’5[2Pet. 2.
12.1 therefore it is unreasonable that they should praise
Goa, and hence they will be excluded from the number
of the saved, upon the same principle that you would
exclude a crocodile, or hyena. This is Universalism
against itself, No* 1.
2. But will Universalista tell us that this is all to take
place in eternity, beyond the resurrection, and that then
there will be no beasts, fowls, fish, nor creeping things in
existence; and consequently, every creature in heaven,
on the earth, under the earth, and in the sea, can praise
God, without such creatures being included? We reply
that if it refer to the state beyond the resurrection, then
the wicked will also be destroyed, and will neither be in
heaven, on the earth, under the earth, nor in the sea;
and consequently will not be among the number that
John heard praising God. This counts Universalism
Sfainst itself, No. 2. But it may be asked; does the bi-
e any where teach, that the brute creation can praise
God? We will see. * Praise the Lord from the earth,
ye dragons, and all deeps, fire and hail, snow and vapors,
stormy wind fulfilling his word; mountains and all hills,
fruitful trees and all cedars, beasts, and all cattle, creeping
things, andflyingfow ls,—let thempraise thename ofthe
L ord” [Psi 148. 7-13.] And he winds up the whole
matter by saying: “ Let every thing that hath breath
praise the Lord.” [Ps. 150. 6.] By quoting the text:
Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me,” which Universal-
ists so frequently quote, they only present Universalism
against itself, No. 3; for the remainder of ti^ e x t reads:
“ And to him that ordereth his conversationlmiGHT, will
I show the salvation of God,” [Ps. 50. 23,] which most
certainly condemns the doctrine which teaches, that ¿11
shall have the salvation of God, whether they order their
conversation aright or not.
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . m
3. But if every creature, is to be confined to banian
beings, it cannot be proved to mean one in ten thousand*
Paul testifies to the Colossi&ns, that the gospel had been
“preached to every creature under heaven, whereof I
Paul am made a minister. [Col* 1* 23.] This embraced
only those who lived at that age of the world; and not
those myriads who had lived before, and who have lived
since. Thus we can, with all safety to our cause, admit
$m\“every creature? in Rev. 5.13, applies exclusively to
rational beings, and yet myriads may never praise God.
4. But Universalism is against itself\ No. 4, by admit­
ting that when the Revelations speak of the destiny of
men, they are to be understood literally. The reader
will remember this, and when we come to quote passages
from this book to prove the final overthrow of the wick­
ed, it will not do for Universalists to say, as they general­
ly do, O that’s all figurative; for this, you see, would
condemn themselves.
5. Again: we have Universalism against itself No.
5,bv admitting that the joys of thefuture life are writ­
ten in this book; for in the conclusion of it we read: “I f
any man shall take away from the words of the book of
this prophesy, God shall take away his part out of the
book of life, and out ofthe holy city, and from the things
which are written in this book,’’ {Rev. 22 19,) which
shows that men may forfeit their right to the bliss of
heaven by their conduct in this life, for (mark it!) Univer­
salists acknowledge that this is written in this book.
6. But lastly: we have Universalism against itself,
No. 6, by admitting, that when John heard all these crea­
tures praising God, there was a “sea,” forhe heard all that
were in the sea, as well as those on the earth. Very
good! But let us turn over a little further: “And 1 saw
a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and
the first earth were passed away, and there was no more
sea,n Well what else did you see, John, when there was
no more seal “ The fearful, and unbelieving, and the
abominable, and murderers,” &c., 1saw “ have their next
ia the lake which bumeth with fire and
M O U N I V ERBA LISM
is the second death." [Verse 8.] Thus whilst there was
a sea, John sow every creature praising God; but when
there was no more sea, a different aspect presented itselfl
All the righteous were saved, and joyfully admitted into
the New Jerusalem; whilst the wicked are doomed to
the second death, in the lake that burns with fire and
brimstone. Here then we dispose of Universalism as
far as this text is concerned.
y | y | Rev. 21. 3 ,4 . And I heard a voice out
of heaven saying, behold the tabernacle
ofG odisw ith men, and he will dwell with them,
and they shall be his people, and God himself
shall be with them, and be their God. And God
shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there
shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor cry­
ing, neither shall there be any more pain, for the
former things are passed away
1. This text has more the appearance of universal
salvation, than any other we have examined; and were it
not for the context, we confess we should not know how
to dispose of it. But with this assistance we can show,
that so far from teaching Universalism, it leaves it with­
out hope and without God in the world. The only ques­
tion necessary to solve all difficulty, is this: Who are
the men with whom God is to dwell ? Who are to be his
people? and from whose eyes is the Lord to wipe away
all tears ? We answer: those who are in the city, the
New Jerusalem, or the Tabernacle of God; which John
at that time saw come down from Heaven. “And God
himself shall be with them and be their G od” Whose
God ? Anrs. “He that overcometh shall inherit all things,
and 1will be his God." (Verse 7.) Have none the prom
ise of coming into this citjr, or temple of God, except
those that overcome? “ Him that overcomtth [says Jesus]
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 131
will I make a pillar in the temple o f m y God, and he shall
go no more out*” (Rev* 3* 12.) 4
4But the fearful and
unbelieving*—and all liars, [those who do not overcome,
says Christ,] shall have their part in the lake which burn-
eth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death”
[Rev* 21. 8.] But can men avoid this second death by
overcoming? Yes: 4
4He that overcometh shall not be hurt
of the second death.” (Rev. 2. 11.) From this we disk
cover that those who are in the city,—who overcome, and
thereby escape the second death, are the people with
whom God is to dwell, and be their God. “Arrd God
shall wipe away all tears from THEIR eyes; and THERE
[in the city] shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor
crying, neither shall THERE be any more pain.”
2* Universalists in quoting and applying this text to
the resurrection state, necessarily admit that then will
be the time when the city, the New Jerusalem, is to come
down from God out of heaven; and consequently that it
cannot mean the church. And if it can be proved that
admission into this city is conditional, and that any will
be debarred from it; it follows that they will be eternal­
ly lost, being shut out from the favor of God in the im­
mortal state of existence: and Universalism will be
against itself, and eternally refuted by the admission*—
Let us now inquire if admittance into this city depends
upon obedience to God’s commands* 4
4Blessed are they
that do his commandments, that they may have right to
the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates in t o
the c it t . [Rev. 2 2 . 14.] ikI f any man shall take away
from the words of the book of this prophesy, God shall
take away his p a r t out of the book of life, and out of the
holy c it y .” [Verse 19.] 4
4
And the nations of them which
are saved shall walk in the light of it,—and there shall in
nowise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither what­
soever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie; but they
which are written in the L amb’s book o f l if e .” [Rev*
21. 24, 27.] This proves that some will be outside of
that glorious city, which Universalists admit to be be­
yond the resurrection, which is the most perfecA. exft&v
182 UN IY E R SA L ISM
tion of Universalism against itselft And thus is
corroborated the testimony of the apostle Paul: u Herr
have we no continuing city, but we seek one to coma.*
[Heb. 13* 14.] Those who wiU not seek it, will never
enter therein.
3. This proof-text is exactly parallel with Is. 25. 8,
which Universalists apply to tne resurrection. (See
examination of that text) Now since John declares
that the lake of fire and brimstone,—the general judg­
ment of the dead, both small and great, and the second
death all refer to the same period, Universalists are com­
pelled to abandon both texts or admit that the <
4lake of
Jire”—the generaljudgm ent, and the “second death”
are all beyond the resurrection. Which horn of the di­
lemma they will choose, is for them, not for me to de­
cide* One or the other is inevitable. The way the
matter now stands it is Umversalism against itself I
am aware of the /act however, that some Universalists,
foreseeing this-difficulty, have denied that this text (Rev*
21. 3,4.) refers to the resurrection; and contend that it
all has reference to the commencement of the church.
Singular indeed! “ There shall be no more death, neither
sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more
pain,” at the commencement of the church! Has God
yet wiped away all our tears?—abolished all our sorrow,
sighing, pain and death? Tell us ye, who believe such
a consistent doctrine! Do you say it is all figurative?
Then what makes you believe Is. 25. 8. to be literal;
when they both refer to the same events precisely, only
Rev* 21. 4. is far the most pointed and explicit? Why
is it, sir, that you can believe any passage in the bible to
be literal which appears to favor your doctrine; but all
the rest is a bundle of figures, for no other reason than
this: you know your darling speculations must fall before
it, like Dagon before the ark of God, if it should be un­
derstood literally* Do you tell us,*as your last resort,
that it must refer to the commencement of the church,
and cannot refer to the future, from the fact that John
speaksofitin the past tense? John,saw the holy city,
AGAINST ITSELF. l t t
New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven,”
Butalas fbryour cause; Did not John say in your grand
proof-text [Rev. 5*13.] that he heard, in the past tense,
every creature m heaven, on the earth, under the earth,
and m the sea praising God? And do you not refer this
to the resurrection? fie honest now, and give it up, and
leave that leaky old ship to sink without you,—with
UNIVERSALISM AGAINST ITSELF inscribed in
letters of living fire upon her prow.
4. I have now got through; and have examined all
the passages upon which Universalists rely, in the old
and new testaments* I have followed this human di­
vinity, in its zigzag route from Genesis to Revelations,
and have arrayed UNIVERSALISM AGAINST IT­
SELF EIGHTY-FIVE TIMES. I have been thus par­
ticular in noticing every text, and meeting every objec­
tion, that there should not be left one stone unturned in
the temple of Universalism; and that the wicked (who
have hitherto tried to smother their fears, by the feigned
belief that this doctrine is true,) should have no cloak for
their sins. And now courteous reader, permit me to ask,
what is your honest and candid opinion of Universalism?
As you will admit that one plain insurmountable text of
scripture against this doctrine is sufficient to condemn
it, how much more should it be discarded as a monstrous,
and dangerous heresy, when the entire current of God’s
word is diametrically opposed to it? And not only so,
but when every text, which is summoned as a witness
totestify in its favor, is made to turn stated evidence,
and condemn it to death! Have you read thus far from
the beginning, and are you now a believer in Universal­
ism? If so, you must possess a supernatural genius,and
C
>wers of intellect which have neveras yet fallen to the
t of mortals: that is, to helieve not only in the ahsence
ofall testimony; but in direct opposition to the strong­
est evidence in the world. Such a man could not only
disbelieve all truth; but could at the same time be a firm
believer in all unbelief!
134 CJNlVERSALISMt
HOW RJpADEST T H O U i” —L uke 10. 9ft.
’T is one thing now to read the Bible through.
A nd another thing to read to learn and do:
’Tie one thing now to read it w ith delight,
A nd quite another thing to read it right.
Some read it with design to learn to read,
But to the subject pay but little heed;
Some read it as their duty once a week,
But no instruction from the Bible seek:
W hilst others read it with but little care.
W ith no regard to how they read, nor where!
Some read it as a history, to know
Hew people lived three thousand years ago.
Some read to bring themselves into repute,
By showing others how they can dispute:
W hilst others read because their neighbors do.
T o see how long ’twill take to read it through.
Some read it for the wonders that are there*
How David killed a lion and a bear;
W hilst others read, or rather in it look,
Because, perhaps, they have no other book.
Some read the blessed Book they don’t know w hy,
It somehow happens in the way to lie;
W hilst others read it with uncommon care,
But all to find some contradictions there!
Some read as tho’ it did not speak to them ,
But to the people at Jerusalem ;
One reads It as a Book of mysteries,
A nd won’t believe the very thing he sees:
One reads with father’s specks upon his bead,
A nd sees the thing just as his father said.
A nother reads through Campbell or through Scott,
And thinks it means exactly w hat they thought.
W hilst others read the Book through H. Ballou,
And if it cross his track, it can’t be true!
Some read to prove a preadopted creed—
T hus understand but little what they read;
For every passage in the Book they bend,
T o make it suit that all im portant end!
Some people read, as I have often thought,
. T o teach the Book, instead of being taught.
A nd some there are who read it out of spite,—
I fear there are but few who read it right.
So many people in these latter days,
Have read the Bible in so m any ways, '
T hat few can tell which systeip is the best,
For every party contradicts the rest!!
AGAINST ITSELF. 135
CHAPTER IL
C O M I N G O F T H E L O R V .
UNTO THEM THAT LOOK FOR HIM,SHALL HE APPEAR THE SECOND
TIME WITHOUT SIN UNTO SALVATION.”—Heb. 9.28.
The coming of Christ is fraught with incalculable in-
erest to the Christian; yet* strange as it may appear to
¡he reader, Universalism teaches that this important
went took place at the destruction of Jerusalem, nearly
1800 years ago. This position is taken by the advo­
cates of this doctrine in order to avoid, if possible, a fu­
ture general judgment, which every where stands close­
lyconnected with the second coming of Christ. If they
could succeed in making the destruction of Jerusalem
by the Romans, the date of this second advent, they
could then, without any fears of successful controversy,
contend that the scattering of the Jewish nation, and
the demolition of their metropolis and temple, was the
scene of the general judgment so frequently referred to
by Christ ana his apostles. But if they fail in this par­
ticular, there is not an honest Universalist on earth* but
what will acknowledge that the “judgm ent d a y” con­
nected with the coming of Christ* is yet future. Let
this be borne in mind. Universafists know full well,
that, this conclusion must follow inevitably, and hence
they have laid claim to several portions of scripture^
which combined with their powers of pervemo\\ wxA
196 U N IV E R SA L ISA I
mystification, have given a pretext of plausib3ity l» feeir
assumption.
Before presenting our positive proof upon this sub­
ject, we snail enter into an examination of the witness­
es, upon which Universalists rely to prove that Christ
came the second time at the destruction of Jerusalem.
The 24th chapter of Matthew, with its parallels in
Mark and Luke, form the grand fortress of Universal-
ism upon this subject. In this chapter they have liter­
ally pitched their tent} whilst all other passages are
nothing more than outposts, compared with this. Some
have even given up this chapter, and surrendered it to
the service of Universalism; but we shall show the read­
er, before we close this article^ that so far from favoring
Universalism, it is the most perfect refutation of this
doctrine could be formed by the combination of
language* ^ 7
The Saviour in the first part of this chapter, after
having described the wonderful catastrophe, that was to
come upon Jerusalem, and the unparalled tribulation
of the Jews as a nation, stops short at verse 22, and
adds, as if on purpose to refiite Universalism: u Then
(i. e. at the destruction of Jerusalem,) if any man shall
say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there, believe it not”
As much as to say: if any man shall teach you the fool­
ish theory of Universalism,—that Christ came at tiré
destruction of Jerusalem, “believe it notPy Vet some
will believe it, or they profess to believe it, notwithstand­
ing Christ has thus pointedly forbidden it. In the next
verse he proceeds to advertise false christs, who should
come at that time, and if possible deceive the very eleet^
and compares them to eagles, coming together to devour
a carcass. As false christs were the only ones that made
their appearance at that time, it follows hence, that
Universalism holds to no christ but a false one! M
verse 27, he throws to a sort of parenthesis, to show thé
difference between the coming of the Son of man, and
these false christs: « For as the lightning cometh out of
the East, anti ihinefh even unto the West*, so shall the
AGAINST ITSELF. m
coming of theSon of man be.” Universalists contend
that Christ.came in this manner in the person of Titus,
the Roman General. But Titus was six months or
more, coming to destroy Jerusalem. Does it take the
lightning six months to shine from the East to the West?!
In verse 29, he proceeds to tell the precise time when
he shall make his second advent. Now, if Universalism
be true, this coming will be placed at the very time Jer­
usalem is besieged. This we may look for as a matter
of course. Well let us see. “Immediately after the trib­
ulation of those days, shall the sun be darkened, and the
moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from
heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken:
and then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in
heaven, and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn,
and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds
of heaven, with power and great glory.” [Verses 29,
30.] This testimony forever routs Universalism. from
the destruction of the Jewish metropolis by the Romans,
as the era of Christ’s second advent; for mark the fact,
it is to be “immediately AFTER the tribulation o f
those days” not just before, nor at the precise time
that this tribulation commenced, which would have been
the case, had Christ have come in the person of Titus.
Hence, Universalists are compelled to abandon the no­
tion of the second advent at the destruction of Jerusa­
lem, or flatly contradict Christ. But they may tell us
that we are as deep in difficulty as themselves, for we
teach that the coming of the Lord is yet future, and the
Saviour pointedly declares that it is to be “im m e d ia t e l t
a ft e r the tribulation of those days!” But suppose we
should contradict Christ, would this be any reason why
Universalists should? By no means. Biit we do not
contradict him. We take, the ground that his second
advent is to be immediately after the tribulation ofthose
days. But we shall now inquire, what we are to under­
stand by “the tribulationofthose days” In Matthew we
have but the commencement of that tribulation record*
ed, which was the overthrow of Jerusalem, As»r
m U N 1V ER 3A LISM
traction of their temple; but we have the remainder, in
the parallel chapter in Luke. 4
4For there shall be great
distress in the land and wrath upon this people; and
they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led
away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trod­
den down of the Gentiles until thetim esofthe Gentiles
befulfilled” [Luke 2 1 . 23, 24«] Thus, Luke has given
us a lull account of that tribulation^ and how long it is
to endure. He unlocks the mystery, and informs us that
the tribulation of those days will continue as long as Jer­
usalem is 4
4trodden down of the Gentiles” and as long
as the Jews remain scattered amongst the nations of the
earth« Every man knows, who is at all acquainted with
the history of the world, that Jerusalem is now, at this
time, trodden down of the Gentiles, and has always been
since the day it was sacked by the Romans; and the
Jews have always been since that period, and are at this
time scattered among all nations, and consequently the
tribulation of those days yet continues! Let it be re­
membered by all that read, and by Universalists especi­
ally, that just so long as thè Jews remain scattered and
Jerusalem continues to be trodden under foot bjr the
Gentiles, just so long will that tribulation continue; and
just as certain as the Jews are now scattered amongst all
nations, and Jerusalem is now trodden down of the Gen­
tiles, just so certain is thè coming of the Lord yet future;
for, mark the fact, he is not to come till the Jefrs return,
and take possession of their old 4
4beautiful Zion where
Judah was glad,” as he is not to make his second advent
till their tribulation comes to an end!
But we are not alone in this view of the subject; for
we have as good Universalist authority as can bepro­
duced, to prove that the punishment, or tribulation oi the
Jews, yet continues. G. W. Montgomery, in his sermon
on the 24th and 25th chapters of Matthew, makes the
following statement: “ If then the term everlasting re­
proach was applied to 70 years captivity, why may not
the phrase everlasting punishment be applied to the Jews,
when they hone endured that punishment fo r nearly
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 119
lSOOyears, rather over 25 times 70 years.” [Ser. paj*e
21J This, in connection with what has been said, is
sufficient to convince the unprejudiced, that the tribula­
tion o f those days yet continues, and consequently that
the coining of Christ is yet future.
But I have another argument against the doctrine of
the second advent at the destruction of Jerusalem, as
based upon this chapter. We are informed in the next
verse, that when the Lord comes: “ He shall send his
angels, with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall
gather together his elect from the four winds, from one
end of heaven to the other;” [Math. 24. SI.] or, as re­
corded by Mark: “ From the uttermost part of the
earth to the .uttermost part of heaven.” [Mark 13. 27.]
Stronger language could not be employed, than is here
made use of, to express the entire number of all the elect
of God, or saints of aH ages, Now let me ask: were
all the elect of God gathered together at the destruction
of Jerusalem? A singular gathering truely! for what
few of them were in the city, at the time of its besiege-
ment, wero commanded to “flee into the mountains!”
If the Roman soldiers scattering the elect, is what is to
be understood ev the angels of the Lord gathering them
together, then I h&ve lost all idea of the meaning of lan­
guage, and the bible indeed, what Univerbalism makes
it to be, a perfect enigma! But if gathering the elect,
means scattering them abroad, as Universalism teaches,
how, I ask, can it be made to appear that all will be
saved, even if we could find positive testimony to that
effect? Universalists are bound to admit, on their own
principles, that it must mean directly the opposite of
what it says; and accordingly, if the bible should teach
universal salvation, it would be positive proof that all
would be damned! 'But again: if all Goa’s elect chil­
dren were gathered at the destruction of Jerusalem,
then there have been none elected since; and as
there is no promise of salvation to any but those who
are elected, through sanctification of the Spirit., and be­
liefof the truth; it follows, therefore, that aW
vation, comes much nearer a universal damnation, them­
selves being judges. But it is not likely that the angel
will be commissioned to sound that great trumpet, and
gather the elect, as long as there are any more that will
Be elected; and as there are .hundreds and thousands
yet being elected through the gospel of the grace of
God; it fellows, that the coming of the Lord, and the
gathering of the elect are yet future* Paul also speaks
of the coming of the Lord in the 15th of 1 Corinthians,
in connection with the sound of 4
4the last trum p” and
the “resurrection of the dead;” and in the 4th chap, of 1
Thess. he speaks of the same things precisely; and in the
2d epistle he speaks of the coming of Christ, 4
4and our
gathering together unto him;” [2-Thess. 2. 1.] showing
plainly and incontrovertibly, that the resurrection of the
dead, the coming of the Lord, the commissioning of the
angels, the sounding of the great trump, and the gather­
ing of all the elect of God, from the four winds, from the
uttermost parts of the earth, to the uttermost parts of
heaven, are all simultaneous events; and as certain as
the resurrection is yet future, as Universalists admit, so
certain are all the others.
But I am referred to verse 34, as the last resort ofour
opponents upon this chapter. 4
4Verily I say unto you:
this generation shall not pass, till all these things be
‘fulfilled.” In order to know what is meant by this
text, we must come at the true signification of the term
4
4generation.” The most common meaning of the word
genea, here translated generation, we admit to be an age
of 30 years; but we have three reasons to assign, why
it is not to be so understood in this case. 1. That gen­
eration^ according to this definition, had passed away,
arod ten years over, before Jerusalem was destroyed.—
Now, either the word generation here, is to be taken out
of its common acceptation,or else the destruction of Jer­
usalem was not included in the things to take place be-
for that generation passed away. If the latter, then
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . (41
Universalisai must give up die idea of the second ad­
vent at the destruction of Jerusalem, and is accordingly
refuted; but if the former be the true idea, i. e. that the
word generation is used put of its common acceptation,
tHewUniversaliste gain nothing by the text, and are com-
pelh*t to admit, that it may mean more than they say it
does.
2. Martin Luther and Dr. George Campbell, whose
translations are now before me, have the word genea
transia^d race, referring to the Jewish nation, which
has not yet become extinct. That race ofpeople yet re­
main a separate and distinct nation, though scattered
amongst all the nations of the earth, and consequently
have not yet passed away.
3. The same word, here translated generation, is found
in Pb. 2.15, and is rendered “ n a tio n in the common
version. Had it been thus translated in Math. 24. 34,
which could have been done with all propriety, then we
would read: 4
4Verily I say unto you: this nation [the
Jews as a people] shall not pass away till all these things
be fulfilled;7
’ that is, till Jerusalem is destroyed, the Jews
are scattered among all nations, the son of man cornés
in power and great glory, and until the angels are com­
missioned to gather the elect from the uttermost parte
of the earth, to the uttermost parte of heaven. And as
that race, that generation, or that nation, has not yet
passed away, but retain all the peculiar characteristics
of a distinct people that they ever did; it follows, that
these events, predicted by the Saviour, (the last of which
was his own personal appearing, and the gathering of
the elect) have not yet all been fulfilled. This text then,
so far from favoring the idea of the coming of the Lord
at the destruction of Jerusalem, is but another confirma­
tion of its fallacy; and exactly corresponds with the fact
of his second advent, immediately after the Jewish tribur
lation comes to an end; and we have produced insupera­
ble evidence, both from the bible, and a standard author
among the Universaliste, that the tribulation, there spoken
of; yet continues; and that per consequence,
U N IV E R 8 A L I8 M
m
of the Lord is yet future! Having thus entered the
fenced city of Universalism, and made it to surrender its
very citadel, we shall have but an easy task to break
down its smaller fortifications, and make it either retreat
from the field altogether, or throw down its arms, and
desire conditions of peace!
Again: We are referred to Math. 10. 23: "B ut when
they persecute you in this city, flee ye into another; for
venly I say unto you; ye shall not have gone over the
cities of Israel, till the Son of man be come.9
’ Univer­
salists tell us that the coming here spoken of, relates to
the sacking of Jerusalem. But this cannot possibly be
the idea; for Paul tells us, many years before Jerusalem
was destroyed, that the gospel had not only been preach­
ed to all the cities of Israel, but had “ been preached to
every creature under h e a v e n [Col. 1
1
. 23,] and Mtheir
*sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the
end of the world." [Rom. 10. 18.1 Thus, the apostles
had gone over the cities of Israel, long before the de­
struction of Jerusalem; and hence Universalism is com^
pelled to abandon this text, for it declares that this com­
ing is to take place before they shall have gone over the
cities of Israel! But if Universalists would take into
consideration the context of this verse, they would find
that it was spoken under, and with reference to the apos­
tles’first commission; which circumscribed their preach­
ing, and confined it “ to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel,” [Verse 6,1 This commission came to an end,
when Christ4
4broke down the middle wall of partition
between Jews and Gentiles,” and 4
4took it out of the
•way, nailing it to his cross.” [Eph. 2. 14., Col. 2. 14.]
Then the Jewish dispensation ceased, and Christ com­
pleted his first coming, as Universalists admit, when he
arose from the dead. Thus the apostles had not gone
over the cities of Israel, until the Son of man had
Oome from the grave! But should the reader feel dis­
posed to quibble just here; and argue that the apostles
must necessarily have finished their first mission, before
Vhrmt died; and consequently that they had gone over
AGAINST IT SE L F. 148
the cities of Israel, before Christ came from the grave,
we reply: this being so, it just as effectually kills Uni-
versaJsm, as it proves, that the coming) here referred to,
was accomplished before his death, tor he was to come
before they had gone over the cities of Israel! This
nvght all be true, and the comings of which the Saviour
here speaks, signify his coming into Jerusalem, as pre­
dicted by the prophet Zechariah: “ Behold, thy king
cometh unto thee, meek, and sitting upon an ass, and a
colt the foal of an ass.9
’ [Math. 21. 5, Zach. 9. 9.] It
is certainly a little strange, that Universalists can never
draw the sword without committing suicide? But in
connection with this text they quote Math. 24.14. ^And
this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the
world, for a witness unto alt nations, and then shaU the
end come” They prove that this refers to the destruc­
tion of Jerusalem, from the fact that Paul declares that
the u gospel had been preached to every creature under
heaven." [Col. 1. 23.1 But mark the language of the
Saviour: “ t h e n shall the end come." When? Ans.
When the gospel shal be preached for a witness to all
nations. And in their own proof-text, Paul declares
that the gospel had been preached to ail nations, many
years before Jerusalem was destroyed, which proves,
themselves being judges, that “ the end [did] come ” al­
together too soon for [Jniversalism! But what is to be
understood by the“ end” which is to come when the gos­
pel shall be preached to all nations? If it be understood
to signify the end of the Jewish dispensation, then we
can prove that the end came just before, or at the day
of pentecost; for on that occasion the gospel was preach­
ed to all nations, in a very important sense, as there
were men present, from “ every nation under heaven.”
[Acts 2. 5.] But if the end here spoken of, refers to the
end of the Jewish nation, then the end has not yet come,
for that nation yet exists, although their city was de­
stroyed. But if the gospel being preached in aU the
ioorld for a witness to all nations, is to be understood
universally, that is, to mean not only the people \X
v*X
144 U N 1V ER SA LISM
were then living, but all who should afterwards live,thea
the 4
4end” has not yet come, and must consequently refer
to the end of the world, or the end of time. This doubt*
less is the true idea of the text; yet it cannot favor Uni*
versalism, as we have seen, let it mean what it may!
Again: In order to fix the second advent at the de­
struction of the Jewish capital, we are referred to anoth­
er text: 4
4For the Son of man shall come in the glory
of his Father, with his angels; and then shall he reward
every man according to his works. Verily I say unto
you, there be some standing here which shall not taste
of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his
kingdom.” [Math. 16. 27, 28.] Universalists contend
that this “coming in his kingdom” which some who
were then standing by should see, before they tasted
death, is the same, as his coming in the glory of his Fa­
ther, to reward every man according to his works, spoken
of in the preceding verse. But here lies the mistake.
Verse 27 refers to the same coming spoken of in Math.
24. 29, 30, which we have exammed, and proved to re­
fer s ill to the future: but verse 26 refers to a different
matter altogether, and is explained by Mark to relate to
the day of pentecost; and his explanation shows beyond
controversy that the phrase 44coming in his kingdom ”
means no more nor less, than “ the kingdom o f God come
with power” The fact that in Matthew the two verses
stand connected together, does nothing in favor of Uni­
versalism; for in Mark they are separated by chapters.
We shall quote them: 4
4Whosoever therefore shall be
ashamed of me, and of my words, in this adulterous and
sinful generation, of hiin also shall the Son of man be
ashamed, when he cometh in the glory ofhis Father, with
his holy angels. And he said unto them, verily I say
imto you, that there be some of them that stand here
which shall not taste of death^ till they have seen the
•kingdom ofGod come withpower”(Mark 8.38, and 9.1.)
-This shows what is meant oy 4
4the Son of man coming
in his kingdom f or as rendered by Dr. Geo. Campbell:
4
4until you see the Son of man enter upon his reign«-’
'k
5k*
a
k
bt
Ir
fe-
tT
3
C
it:
K
H
e:
e
e
-
k
g
I
f
S
X
1
U
2
y
■
t
«
j
f1
:
i
/
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 145
Hie kingdom of God coming with power, and the Son
ofman entering upon his reign, were both inseparably
connected, and took place on the day of pentecost, as
recorded in the 2d of Acts. Luke, in recording the same
matter, has given it thus: “ But I tell you of a truth, there
be some standing here, which shall not taste of death
till they see the kingdom of God.” [Luke 9* 27.] It is
the opinion of some, that this coming of Christ in glory.,
was fulfilled after Sixdays, when Christ was trans^ured
upon the mount, in the presence of Peter, James, and
John. But for some cause, either the scarcity of tes­
timony, or the bbtuseness of my intellect, I cannot see
it; whilst I can prodace, I think, three substantial rea­
sons against it. 1. Christ, when he came in this man­
ner, was to “ reward every mail according to his works.”
This certainly was1not done upon the mount of transfig­
uration! 2. If the Saviour refers to his metamorphosis
upon the mount, then it was no more his coming, than
that of Moses and Elias; for they all “ appeared in glory?
[Luke 9. 31.] 3. It is not alali likely that the Saviour
looked only six days ahead, when he made this predic­
tion: “ There be some standing here, which shall not
taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his
kingdom,” implying, as any one can see, that many of
them should taste ofdeath, before that event transpired!
whilst there is no evidence, and but little probability
that any who were then standing by, tasted of death be­
fore the transfiguration. I am aware that the testi*
mony of Peter is appealed to, as sustaining the above po­
sition: u W e have not followed cunningly devised fables,
when we made known unto you,the pouter and coming of
our Lord Jesus Christ; but "were eye witnesses of his
majesty: for he received from God the Father, honor,
and glory, when there came such a voice from the ex­
cellent glory; This is my beloved Son in whom I am
well pleased: and this voice, which came from heaven,
we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount.”
[2 Pet; 1.16-18.] But, mark the fact, PeteidoeawnV
a y that the exhibition which he saw in the tntNSR*'***»
146 U N 1V E R SA L IS M
the 4
4power and coming ofour Lord Jesus Christ,” which 3
he had made known to those brethren: but he had made [
>
known to them the future advent of Christ, when he j:
should come in power andgreatglory; and as an evidence *
that such would be the case, he refers them to what he
had witnessed: and the fact, that Christ possessed such
glorious power, on the mount of transfiguration, of which
Veter was an eye witness, is a demonstration that such
will be his splendid and glorious appearance when he
comes the second time, without sin unto salvation. But
the whole matter, we think, is more simple, and far
more easily understood, if we let Mark explain Matthew;
which shows that6
4the Son of man coming in his king•
dom ” which was to take place in the life-time of some
.who were then standing by, signifies nothing .more than
4
4the kingdom o f God coming withpower” or 6
6the Son
ofman entering upon his reign” which must be admitted
by all, to refer to the day ofpentecost! But I wonder how
Universalists would dispose of the matter, should we take
the same twist with this text, that they do with Luke 20.
35: 6
6They which shall be counted worthy to obtain that
worldr—and contend, that because Matthew is the on­
ly one of the evangelists, who makes use of the phrase:
4
4the Son of man coming in his kingdom ” hence it was
a matter of little importance, or Luke and Mark would
not both have omitted it!! Universalists could not ob­
ject to this logic, for it is a species oftheir own manufac­
turing. But we do not dispute the text, although Mat­
thew is alone; neither do we stand in need of any such
a miserable subterfuge, under which to shelter the cause
we advocate; yet we do claim the right of letting God
be his own interpreter, and of making two texts of scrip-
ure upon the same subject, harmonize and explain each
other* Again: We could adopt the logic of Universal-
ism and contend thatataste o fdeathj” does not mean
the death, of the body, or, is not to be understood lit­
erally, but most signify a moral or spiritual death, and as
some of the apostles, who were then standing by have
pew eryei tested that kind of death*it follows, that the
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 147
coming of the Lord is yet future! But, as we remarked
before, we do not depend upon any such forced con­
struction, or sophistical perversion, which forms the very
nerve and muscle of Univerealism.
But we are referred to the conversation of Christ with
Peter, concerning John:4
6Peter seeing him said to Je­
sus, Lord, and what shall this man do? Jesus saith unto
j him: If I will that he tarry* till I come, what is that to
thee? follow thou me. Then went this saying abroad
among the brethren, that tha't disciple should not die.
A Yet Jesus said not unto him he shall not die; but ifI will
that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?” [John 21«
21-23.] This was one of the principal texts, relied on
by G. W. Montgomery, to prove that the Lord came at
the destruction of Jerusalem: and his effort is admitted,
by Universalists, to be the best that can be made upon
[ that subject. But this, like most of their other texts,
proves the very opposite of Universalism. Let us look
at it. Now mark the fact, that this conversation took
place after Christ had arisen from the dead,—after he
nad been teaching his disciples three years and a half,
and as Universalists contend, in almost every discourse,
giving them to understand, that he was going to come at
die destruction ofJerusalem, in about 46 years from that
time. The disciples must have understood this matter
perfectly, having been taught it so repeatedly; yet, not­
withstanding all this, when they understood the Saviour
to say that John should tarry till he come, they all drew
the conclusion at once, that John would never die!—
Why will he never die? Because he is going to tarry,
or remain alive till the Lord shall come; and of course
he will never die if he lives that long; for that will be at
the end of time!! This then is the way all the disciples
understood the matter,—that if any man should live till
the Lord made his appearance, he would never die; as
there would be no more going down to the grave after
| that period. Hence it is as clear as the sun at noon-day,
that the disciples did not, any of them, understand the
destruction o f Jerusalem, as the time of CYixtata «eratul
UNI VERSA LI S-M
U*
advent; for they knew full well that men, who would live
till that event, would be just as likely to die afterwards
as before! Universalists must therefore give up all the
apostles, and acknowledge that none of them were mem­
bers of their craft; or they must search out some 4
4sheet”
after this conversation took place, and get them all con­
verted as they did Peter; and still they might not preach
any better Universalism after their conversion than Pe­
ter did! But we are informed that the apostles misun­
derstood the Saviour,—that he did not tell them that
John should tarry till he come, or, that he should never
die;4
4but if I w ill” (put the emphasis on the right word)
4
4but if I WILL that he tarry till I come,” or that he
shall never die,4
4what is that to thee?9
’ Here again
Universalism is routed, and like king Saul* is made to
fall upon its own sword*
But in the last place, Universalists bring forward a
number of texts, which we shall now examine, and
which are believed to sustain the doctrine of the second
advent, at the destruction of Jerusalem. 4
4For yet a
little while, and he that shall come, will come, and will
not tarry.” [Heb. 10. 37.] 4
4Be ye also patient, estab­
lish your hearts; for the coming of the Lord draweth
n ig h ” [Ja. 5. 8.] 44Behold I come quickly, and my re­
ward is with me to give every man according as his
work shall be.” [Rev. 22. 12.] 4
4Blessed is he that read-
eth, and they that hear the words of this prophesy,
and keep those things which are written therein, for the
time is at hand” [Rev. 1. 3.] These texts, with a few
others of the same import, form a very considerable ar­
gument with Universalists generally, in favor, as they
suppose, of the second advent of Christ in the person of
Titus. But we shall give a sort of wholesale reply,
which will set Universalism aside as far as they all ap­
pear to affect the case. The main question to be settled
is this: In what sense are we to understand the com­
ing of the Lord in the above texts, as nigh or at hand?
We answer thus: Whenever a man dies, time comes to
an end with him, individually and personally, just as
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 14«
much as though the earth should cease to revole, and the
sun be plucked from the heavens. Suppose a thousand
years shall yet elapse in the history of the world, before
the Lord shall come, and I should die m twelve months
from this date; there would be to me, but twelve months
of time between this and the coming of the Lord: al­
though in point of duration, there would still be 999
years. Thus to me, the coming of the Lord would be
at hand, because only at the distance of twelve months:
and thus it was with the primitive saints; they could
live but a few years at most, and when they closed their
eyes in death, it would be the same to them, as though the
Lord had then come; for time would then come to an end,
as far as they were concerned; and though 1800 years
have since rolled away, not one moment of that time
counts for them,—their age is not increasing, but re­
mains the same, and thus the coming of the Lord was
then at hand, was even as near to them 1800 years ago,
as it is to us now, unless he should come before we die.
This is the true, and in my judgment, the only consist­
ent way, of looking at ail those texts. It could thus be
said with all propriety, to all who were then living.—
“ Yet filittle white, and he that shall come, will come, and
will not tarry*7 But Universalists contend that a little
while is here to be understood literally, and for no other
reason than because it appears to favor their views.—
But let us inquire how much a little while is, when un­
derstood literally, according to Universalism. From the
time that Paul penned that statement, until the destruc­
tion of Jerusalem, the time which Universalists mark
out for the coming of the Lord, was 23 years. A little
while may also literally mean a few minutes. The land­
lady says, she can get dinner in a little while: that is, in
a few minutes. A “ little while,” cannot in this case
mean 23 years, certainly! Now ifa little while can lit­
erally mean fifteen minutes, and at the same time liter­
ally mean 23 years, more than eight hundred thousand
times as long, may it not also on the same principle
nean 1800 years,—in the mind of him who sefc*
IM UNIVERSALISAI
from the beginning? The truth is, Universaliste have
an easy way of proving their doctrine, and refuting that
of their opponents. Every passage which appears to
favor the theory of Universalisai, must be understood
literally, let the circumstances be as they may; but
every text against them, let it ever be so pointed and
emphatic, is nothing but an eastern metaphor! Paul de»
dares that “ God has appointed a day in the which he
will judge the world.” [Acts 17. 31.] A day literally
means twenty-four hours; but Universalists, without any
hesitancy, contend that it here means the whole Christian
dispensation! Now if one day can mean more than
1800 years, may not a little while, (which Universaliste
admit to be literally 23 years, more than 8000 times as
long as a day) also mean the same thing? If Universal­
ists are not willing to admit the true, and obvious idea of
these texts, as expressed above; they can be made to ad­
mit any other idea you please, by turning their own logic
against them. When Christ says, Behold I come quickly,
how do Universalists know but that he used the won!
quickly in comparison with eternity? Even if he was
not to come till 1800 years after; an eye that could
scan eternity at a single glance, could look upon that
length of time as a mere trifle, since Peter has declared:
That one day with the Lord is as a thousand years,
and a thousand years as one day.” [2 Pet. 3. 8.] But if
the coming of the Lord being wat hand” proves that it
took place at the destruction of Jerusalem; how will
Universalists explain this?—u But the end of all things
is at hand.” [1 Pet. 4. 7.] They dare not interpret it
to suit their Jerusalem hobby; for some things have ex­
isted, and some events have transpired since! But the
end of all things was at hand, in the same sense of the
coming of the Lord, as above explained. The way
Universalists understand the coming of the Lord as be­
ing al hand, they make the apostles clash; for Paul testi­
fies, that the man would be a deceiver who would teach,
“ that the day of Christ is at hand.” [2 Thess. 2. 2.]
And adds: * Let no man deceive yon by any means; [no,
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 181
not even by the sophistry of Universalism,] for that
day shall not come, except there come a falling away
first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdi­
tion.” [Terse 3.] Thus, we would have a pointed con­
tradiction between the apostles according to the inter­
pretation of Universalists; but when we consider, that
one is speaking with reference to the history of the
church, when he puts the day of Christ a great ways off;
and the other, as speaking to individual brethren, with
direct reference to their departure Grom this life, when
time to them would come to an end, and the coming of
the Lord would thus be at hand, as not a moment of
time would intervene to them, between that, and the
resurrection, although thousands of years might elapse
before that event would, occur, in view of the history of
the world? When we look at it in this light, the whole
matter is plain enough. But, finally, upon this cart of
the subject we remark: that Universalism makes all
those joyful promises connected with the coming of the
Lord, which we have been examining, but so many re­
cords of falsehood. They were once true, but they are
true no longer. No man can now console the afflicted
saints with the promise, that 4
4the coming of the Lord
draws nigh,” and 4
4he that shall come, will come, and
will not tarry.” No, for this is now false: and thus
Universalism 4
4turns the truth of God into a lie;” and as
the power of the gospel, consists in the motives which
it holds forth, hence Universalism paralizes the gospel,
by placing all its thrilling, and soul-stirring motives in
the past tense. They thus hold out another gospel, or,
as Paul says, which is not another, but aperversion ofthe
gospel of Christ. If this doctrine be true, well may we
take up the language of the latter-day scoffers and ask:
4
4Where is the promise of his coming? for since the fa­
thers fell asleep, [i. e. since Jerusalem was destroyed,]
all things continue as they were from the beginning of
the creation.” [2* Pet* 3* 4*]
152 U N IV E R S A L ISM
T W E N T Y -FIV E SC R IPTU R A L REASONS, FO R BELIEVING
T H A T T H E COMING OF T H E LORD DID N O T TAKE
PLA C E A T T H E DESTRUCTION OF JERU SA LEM ,—AND
T H A T IT IS Y E T FU T U R E !
H e is t o co m e l it e r a l l y . Proof: “ Ye men of
Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This
same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven,
shall so come in like manner, as ye have seen him go
into heaven.” [Ac. 1.11.] “ The Lord HIMSELF, shall
descend from heaven.” [1 Thess. 4.16.]
Remarks: Ascertain as Jesus went to heaven literal­
ly, so certain will he return literally; for, “ This same
Jesusy [not his effigy or likeness^ shall so come in like
manner:” notfiguratively, but.literally, ior in this man­
ner they saw him go up. “ The Lord him self shall de­
scend from heaven,” not his personification in the person
of Titus T “ The Lord him self” is the same as “ the
Lord literally.” The Saviour says on one occasion,
“ Behold my hands and my feet, that it is, I m yself”
[Luke 24. 39,] that is, literally the Lord! “ To them
that look for him shall he appear the second time.”
“ The second time,” will be as literal as the first; and as
Universalists do not contend, that he came literally at the
destruction of Jerusalem, he therefore did not then come
the second time, and consequently did not come at all;
for we have no account in the bible of any but hisfirst
and second advents: and as no one contends, that he has
appeared since that time, it follows, that the second ap­
pearing of Christ is still future*
2 H e s h a l l com e w it h t h e clouds o f h e a v e n .—
4 Proof: “ Behold he cometh with clouds” [Rev. 1.
7.] “And they shall see the Son of man coming in the
clouds of heaven, with power and great glory.” (Math.
24. 30.)
Remarks: This certainly was not fulfilled in the per-
A.
AGAINST I T S E L F . 158
son of Titus;—he came from the city of Rome upon the
ground; not in the clouds of heaven!
O H e SHALL COVE W ITH ALL TH E HOLT ANOELS. P r o o f :
4
4The Son of man shall come in his glory, and all
the holy angels with him.” (Matt. 25. 31.)
Remarks: Universa!ists contend that the Roman sol­
diers along with Titus, are what is meant by the angels
who were to accompany Christ. Yes, indeed, those
wicked, abominable, blood thirsty soldiers, were a very
fit representation of the holy angels of God!!!
Query: If Titus and his soldiers, were a personifica­
tion of Christ and his angels, what would it take to per­
sonify the devil and his angels?!1
.
A He SHALL COME W ITH TEN THOUSAND OF HIS SAINTS.
Proof: “And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam,
prophesied of these, saying: Behold the Lord cometh
with ten thousand of his saints. (Jude 14.)
Remarks: Had Titus ten thousand saints with him,
when he came to destroy Jerusalem? It is truly
strange, that Enoch should look forward through so
many thousands of years, and look over unnoticed, the
destruction and desolation of so many mighty cities and
fcingdoms of renown, and place the coming of the Lord
with ten thousand of his saints, in the person of Titus
and the Roman army!!
Query: If the Roman soldiers were the saints of the
Lord, where would you go to find the imps of the devil?!
X He SHALL COME W ITH TH E GREAT God. Proof:
“ Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious
appearing of the great Xxod, and our Saviour Jesus
Christ.” (Tit. 2. 13.)
Remarks: Did the great God come along with Titus,
the Roman general, to assist him in destroying the Jews?
and was that massacre, the “blessed Aope” for which
the disciples looked? When Paul hoped that there would
“ be a resurrection o f the dead, both of the yaaX eui
154 UN IV ERSALISA I
of the unjust.” (Ac. 24.15.) Universalists tell us that
he could not have hoped for the resurrection of the
unjust to punishment; yet, according to their doctrine,
Paul commanded the disciples to look forward with a
blessed hope, to the time, when the Lord Jesus should
appear in the person of Titus, to murder the Jews, and
cause the greatest national tribulation, that has ever
been since the commencement of time! Query: If Ti­
tus enjoyed the communion and assistance of the great
God, how much would it take, to give a man the com­
pany and fellowship of the great devil?
He s h a l l com e in f l a m in g f ir e . Proof: u The
Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his
mighty angels, in flam ing fire.” [2 Thess. 1. 7, 8.]
Remarks: At the time Jerusalem was destroyed,
Rome, for idolatry and wickedness of every description,
was the metropolis of the world! Yet, Titus coming
from that seat of wretchedness and iniquity, was a most
manifest representation of the Lord Jesus coming from
heaven, the abode of purity and bliss !! But the per
Bonification is also lame in another respect. Titus did
not come in flam ing fire. All theflam ing fire there was
in that case, was the conflagration of the temple ; that
happened to make its appearance, just after Titus had
come, and had broken down the walls of their city !
Query : If Rome was a correct representation of heaven,
how could any thing be fixed, that would personify
hell!
k
|r
F
£
H
E
Ï
7 T h e kingdom o f God s h a l l t h e n com e. Pioof:
• So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to
fiass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.”
Luke 21. 31.]
Remarks : There were but two kingdoms promised:—
one the kingdom ofgrace, and the other the everlasting,
or ultimate kingdom of glory. Neither of these king­
doms came at the destruction of Jerusalem. The king-
dom o fgrace commenced, when Christ was exalted at
S
L
.
W
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 155
the right hand of God, at least 37 years before the de­
struction of Jerusalem, and people were then admitted
into it. (See Col. 1. 13.) The kingdom of glory has not
yet come, and will not till the resurrection of the dead,
when the saints shall be 44raised in glory” Hence, there
was no kingdom appeared at the time Titus made his
advent against the Jews, and consequently the appear­
ing of Christ, which is to be simultaneous with the com­
ing of this kingdom, is yet in the future!
8 His a p p e a r in g w i l l b e u n iv e r s a l . Proof: 4
4Behold
• he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him ”
rRev. 1. 7.] 4
4When the Son of man shall come in his
glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit
upon* the throne of his glory, and before him shall be
gathered all nations” [Math. 25. 32.] 4
4For, as a snare
shall it come on all them, that dwell on the face of the
whole earth.” (Luke 21. 35.)
Remarks: If any language in the bible can be made
to express Universality, this fully meets the case. But
the appearing of the Roman army, so far from being
Universal, affected only a small district ofcountry in the
land of Palestine. Did this come upon aU them that
dwell upon the face of the whole earth? Where were the
inhabitants of all Europe, and Africa,—the major part
of Asia, and the islands of the seas? The destruction of
Jerusalem certainly did not come upon all them!—Did
every eye see Christ come, during that campaign?—The
word 4
4EVERY,” Universalists tell us, as we have be­
fore shown, means the whole human family without ex­
ception. 4;By thy words thou shalt be condemned.”
Q He s h a l l com e u po n t h e w ic k ed u n a w a r e s . Proof:
4
4For yourselves know perfectly, that the day of the
Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they
shall say peace and safety, then sudden destruction com­
eth upon them,—and they shall not escape.” (1 Thess.
5. 2,3.) 4
4For in the days that were before the floods
they were eating and drinking, marrying and vn
166 UN1VERSAL1SM
marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark;
and knew not. until the flood came and took them
away: so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.* *
(Math 24.38,39.) 4
4The Lord of that servant shall come, i ■
in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that *
he is not aware of;” (Math. 24. 50.)
Remarks: The day of the destruction of Jerusalem,
did not come upon the wicked Jews unawares, for they z
were fully apprised of the intention of the Roman«, and
made preparation to meet the attack. That day did not I
come upon them as a thief, in an hour that they were "
not looking for it, for they knew a long time before hand, *
that the Roman legions would certainly appear; and <
when sudden destruction came upon them, they were <
-
not saying peace and safety; for at that time they had *
internal wars and insurrections, spreading devastation *
throughout the whole city! Neither were they at that «
time, marrying and giving in marriage; neither were e
they feasting, as they were in the days just before the
flood; or as they will be when the Lord comes; for when -
the Romans besieged the city, starvation and wretched­
ness stalked abroad in its most horrid form; and was to '
be seen depicted in every countenance;—whilst the la- '
dies of the highest rank, satisfied their hunger upon the (
flesh of their own offspring! This had but little the ap­
pearance of either a wedding or an infare!! But
thousands of the Jews escaped, at the time their city
was besieged: but this will not be the case with the
wicked, when the Lord shall come; for the apostle says:
4
4they shall not escape,” and as the flood came upon the
wicked antediluvians 4
4and swept them all away, so shall
also the coming of the Son of man be.” He shall come
4
4with ten thousand of his saints, to execute judgment
upon «W, and to convince all that are ungodly among
tliem, of all their ungodly deeds, which they have un­
godly committed; and of all the hard speeches which
ungodly sinners have spoken against h i m [ J u d e 15.]
Did Christ, in the person of Titus, convince all the un-
godly Jew el No, for they fougVvl \a
\Y very last.—
r A S A I N S T I T S E L F . \6 t
None of them were convinced by the arguments made
use of on that occasion! Did he execute judgment at
the destruction of Jerusalem, for all the hard speeches,
which ungodly sinners have spoken against him? How
about those blaspheming infidels, who now assert that
the blood of Christ, is no better than the blood of a dog?
Was judgment executed upon them at the destruction
of Jerusalem?
| H r s h a l l com e w it h t h e v o ic e o f t h e a r c h a n -
GEL, AND WITH THE TRUMP OF God. Proof: 4
4The
Lord himself shall descend from heaven, with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of
God.” [1 Thess. 4. 16.]
Remarks: The voice of the archangel, was not heard
at the destruction of Jerusalem; and as for the trump of
God, Paul declares that to beat the resurrection of the
dead: [1 Cor. 15. 52.] this Universalists admit, and hence
the coming, which is to take place in connection with
these events^ is yetfuture! Query: If the music of the
Roman soldiers, was the trump of God; how think you
would the trump of Satan sound?!
*| T h e d ea d s h a l l b e r a ise d . Proof: 4
4The Lord
himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of
God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first [1 Thess.
4. 16.]
Remarks: Universalists tell us, that this cannot refer
to the future, from the fact that some who were then
alive, were to witness it; and that in the next verse, the
apostle says:4
4We which are alive and remain.” From
this it is contended that the apostle, as well as those
whom he then addressed, would actually live to witness
the coming of Christ, here referred to. But Paul died,
Universalists admit, before Jerusalem was destroyed,
and hence, if Paul was included in the personal pronoun
tot, it saps the foundation of Universalism, ana awtna
that the second advent o f Christ, was all over
158 U N IV E R S A L IS M
eral years before Jerusalem was destroyed! We shall
now turn the logic of these gentlemen against them.—
In 1 Cor. 15. they admit Paul to be speaking of the lite­
ral resurrection. Very good! In verse 51, he remarks:
“ Behold 1 show you a mystery: we shall not all sleep.”
Now, according to the above argument, Paul, and those
addressed by him, would not die, until the literal resur­
rection of the dead! And as Paul, as well as all those
addressed at that time, were doubtless dead and in their
graves before fifty years from that time, it follows, that
the resurrection has been passed for more than seven­
teen centuries! And as Universalists place the salvation
of ail men at the resurrection;—hence all men were
saved nearly 1800 years ago; and those who have since
lived are not men, but some other race of beings! But
the pronoun tee, does not refer to those living at that
particular time; but simply personates Christians, and
thus we understand the text: 4
4We which are alive,”
that is, the Christians which are alive,4
4and remain unto
the coming of the Lord.” But the resurrection here re­
ferred to, did not take place at the destruction of Jeru­
salem; for there is no history in existence, that records
the resurrection of a single individual as having occurred
on that occasion; whilst we have the best authenticated
testimony in the world, that more than a million of hu­
man beings were slain! Is this the kind of resurrection
held out by Universalism? Do they hope for it?! ^
*| €% T h e l iv in g a n d t h e d ea d s h a l l b e ju d g e d . Proof:
441 charge thee therefore before God, and the
Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the
dead at his appearing and his kingdom.” [2 Tim. 4. 1.]
Remarks: Universalists will quibble upon this, (as
they do upon almost every thing,) and tell us, that it is
the dead that Christ is to judge at his appearing, and
not the living: hence it must refer to the morally dead)
which was the case at the destruction of Jerusalem! But
we remark, that the deadyin such connections as this,
simply moan» those that hod been dead/ We can adduce
k
i
Is
IE
' i
i
E
fe
h
■
:
*
£
I
I
(
AGAINST IT S E L F. 159
parallel examples in abundance to sustain this position.
“'But some man will say: how are the dead raised up?"
{1 Cor. 15. 35.) Were they to be raised up dead? that
is, Were they to be dead at the time they were raised up?
or, were they to be made alive, and afterwards raised up?
You would admit the latter without doubt; and thus the
meaning is: 4
4How are the dead [after being made alive]
raised up?" So it is with Christ judging the dead, that
is, those that had been dead, but are made alive again.
What are we to understand from this phrase ? 4
4It came
to pass when the' devil was gone out, the dumb spake”
(Luke 11. 14.) Does it mean, that the man was actual­
ly dumb at the time he spake? No, for this would be
a contradiction in terms. But the idea is this: He that
had been dumb spake, after having been restored to his
speech! So when we read that John 44saw the dead
small and great stand before God" to be judged; it has
reference to those who had been dead both small and
great, and were made alive, and brought to stand before
13 The sa in t s s h a l l o b ta in r e d e m p t io n . Proof:
“ And then shall they see the Son of man coming
in a cloud, with power and great glory; and when these
things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up
your heads, for your redemption draweth nigh." (Luke
21. 27, 28.)
Remarks: What redemption was it, for which the
disciples were encouraged to look at the coming of
Christ, with such joyful anticipation? Was it redemp­
tion from the persecuting Jews, at the destruction of
their city? No, for if redemption from persecution was
the thing for which they were looking, they were sadly
disappointed, for they utterly failed to obtain it. Paul
declares: 4
4
And all that will live godly in Christ Jesus,
skaU suffer persecution.” (2 Tim. 3. 12.) At the de­
struction of Jerusalem, the disciples were delivered out
of the hands of their enemies, whose power was circusor
scribed by the Roman jurisdiction, into the hunta ot
160 UNIVERSALISM
others, whose power against the professors of christiaUr ^
ity, was as unlimited as their hatred! Did the redemp» i
tion for which they were to look, consist in the forgive j
ness of sins, through the blood of Christ? No, for this l
the disciples enjoyed many years too soon for the se- 1
cond advent of Universalismo (See Col. 1. 14.) What j-
then was the redemption for which the disciples hoped?
Paul shall answer: 4
4Waiting for the adoption to wit: ]
the redemption of our body.” (Rom. 8. 23.) Hence !
the redemption which christiafe are to obtain at the £
coming of their Lord, is redemption from the desolations 3
of the tomb. Query: If the disciples enjoyed a state of
redemption after Jerusalem was destroyed, when they L
were devoured by wild beasts,.and massacred by thou- ♦
sands; what think you must have been their state of
bondage?i
1 A T h e sa in t s s h a l l a l l b e g a t h e r e d t o C h r ist .
A 4 « p roof* «Now we beseech you brethren by the
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering
together mito him.” [2 Thess. 2. 1.] 4
4Then [when he t
comes] shallhe send his angels, and shall gather together |
his elect, from the four winds, from the uttermost part of £
the earth, to the uttermost part of heaven.” [Mark
13.27.]
Remarks: The saints were not gathered to Titus at
the siege of Jerusalem, for the Saviour commands them
to flee into the mountains, as soon as they saw the Ro­
man army approaching! Query: If the disciples were
gathered together to Titus, the Roman general, what
plan would you adopt to get them scaterea abroad?!
*| PC T he b o d ies o f Tins sa in t s s h a l l b e c h a n g e d ,
*
“ ■*-*• a n d b e m ade l ik e u n t o C h r is t . Proof: “Fox
our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look
for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ: who shall change
our vile body, that it may befashioned like unto his glo­
rious body. [Phil. 3. 20, 21.J 4
4We shall not all sleep,
bat we shall all be changed, lit a moment,in the twink-
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 161
Ufigof an eye, at the Iasi trump; for the trumpet shall
sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and
toe shall be changed” [1 Cor: 15. 51, 52.] “ We know
that when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we
shall see him as he is.” [1 John 3. 2.]
Remarks: Were the vile bodies of the saints changed
at the destruction of Jerusalem, and made like the glori­
ous. body of Titus? This changing cannot refer to that
event, for Paul has_de<^ted, that it relates to the resur­
rection of the dead; a i^ th a t too in the very chapter
claimed by Universalists, and acknowledged to refer still
to the future! Query: If the bodies of the saints were
changed to immortality, at the destruction of Jerusalem,
and were still subject to corruption and death; what
must they have been before they were changed*
r j The sa in t s s h a l l a p p e a r w it h C h r is t in g lo r y .
Proof: “ When Christ, who is our life, shall ap-
5ear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.”
M. 3. 4.]
Remarks: Did the apostles appear with Titus in his
glory? Not quite, if they fled to the mountains the way
they were directed, by the Saviour. Query : If thos*
who were engaged with, and appeared in the company
of Titus, were exalted to a station ofglory; who, since
the world began, was ever degraded to a state ofinfam y?
W T h e sa in t s s h a l l a d m ire t h e lo r d w h e n h e
«
■
• • • a p p e a r s . Proof: 4
4When he shall come to be
glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that
believe ” [2-Thess. 1. 10.]
Remarks: Did all believers admire Titus, who, accord­
ing to Universalism, was a personification ofChrist?D id
Universalists admire him? Ifno*, they must admit that
they are not believers! for all believers are to hail the ap­
pearing of Christ, with joy and admiration. Query; If
the benevers running away and letting w\\k \ftt-
xvrsndjdismay, was adm iring and glorifying
* 14 o*
m U N 1V E R SA L IS M
plan, think you, could they have adopted, to have treat­
ed him with dishonor and contemptlt
*1O It w il l b e a d a y o p c o n so la tio n t o a l l b e lie v-
e r s . Proof: “ But rejoice inasmuch as ye are
partakers of Christ’s sufferings; that when his glory shall
fee revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding great
jo y ” D- Pet*4. 13.] “ Wherefore gird up the loins of
your mind, be sober and hope^o the end, for the grace
that is to be brought unto you « the revelation of Jesus
Christ.” [1 Pet. 1.13.] “ Wherefore comfort one another
with these words.” [1 Thess. 4. 18.]
Remarks: Was it a comfort, and a consolation to the
saints, to reflect, that Christ was going to come at the
head of the Roman army, and drive them all from their
homes, into the mountains, where they would have to
wander in sheep skins and goat skins, in dens and caves
of the earth, being deslittUe, afflicted and tormented ? Is
this the kind of consolation held out by Universaiisna, in
order to make the disciples “glad with exceeding great
joy?n Query: If the Lord came in the person of Titus
to bless men5—wonder how he would come if he were
going to curse them?
*
1Q The sa in t s s h a l l b e c a u g h t u p t o m e e t t h e L ord
IN t h e a ir . Proof. “ Then we which' are alive
and remain, shall be caught up together with them in
the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air$ and so shall we
ever be with the Lord.” [1 Thess. 4. 17.]
Remarks: Did Titus go up into the clouds? and did
the disciples at the destruction of Jerusalem go up also
and meet him in the air, and remain there forever.with
him? The facts in this verse, make truly the harmony
of discord, when compared with facts as they occurred,
at the advent of Titus, the Lord of [Jniversalism!
O A They s h a l r e c e iv e a c r o w n o f r ig h t e o u s n e s s
and glory. Proof: “ Henceforth there is laid
up for me a a ctvwn o f righteousness^ ^ \j&t&
AGAINST ITSELF. Mt
: *
die righteous judge shallgive meat that day, and not to
me only, but unto all them also, that love his appear-
ingP [2 Tim. 4. 8.] 4
4When the chief shepherd shall
appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadetb
not away.” [1 Pet. 5. 4.] * ^
Remarks: Paul did not receive a crown of righteous
ness at the adventof Titus; for he died several yearn
before that circumstance occurred; yet heis certainly to
receive hiscrown at theday ofChrist’sappearing, which
proves that it will not be, till the resurrection of the
dead! But the apostle testifies, that the«crown was not
only for him*but for uaUthem also that love his appear­
ing!" How about theapostle James,whom Herod slew
with a sword; and thousands ofthe saints who were per­
secuted to death, long before the destruction of Jerusa­
lem? Did they receive a crown o fglory at the appear­
ing of Titus? How about all the faithful servants of
Christ who.have lived since Jerusalem was destroyed?
They certainly loved his appearing: and did all the
righteous who are now living, receive a crownof righto*
ousness at the devastation of the Jewish capital? Did
Universalists receive a crown at thattime? If not, they
are compelled to acknowledge that they are not righte­
ous, and that they donotlove the appearingof Christ; or
else forever abandon the ridiculous notion of the second
advent of Christ at the destruction ofJerusalem!
O T h e w ic k e d s h a l l b e p u n is h e d w it h a n e v e r l a s t *
in g d e s t r u c t io n . Proof: 4
4The Lord Jesus shall
be revealed from heaven, with his mighty angels, in
flaming Are, taking vengeance on them that know not
God,' and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jeans
Christ: who shall be punished with an everlasting de­
struction from the presence of the Lord, and from the
glory of his power.” [2 Thess. 1. 7-9.1 4
4Then shall fair
say also, to them on the left hand, depart from me ye
coned into everlasting fire, prepared forthe devil
his angels.”[Math. 25. 41.7 4
4These shall ga % m j Vtito
everlastingpunishm ent”[Ibid. 46*3
164 U N I V E R B A L IS M
Remarks Universalists contend, that by the banish*
ment of the wicked from the presence of the Lord, is to
be understood the banishment of the Jews from the tern-
pie in Jerusalem, the time it was besieged by the Ro­
mans! ‘Again: the wicked being driven away winto
everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels?
means the fire that was kindled in Jerusalem* at its be*
siegement, prepared for the high priest, and his emissa­
ries! Very well: when the Lord said “ comeye blessed?
he meant as a matter of course, come into the presence
ofthe Lord; that is into*the temple,—theeverlaxting, or
hell first And when the wicked were commanded to
depart from his presence, it signifies, that they were to
be driven away from Aetf, that is, the temple or the pie*
sence of the Lord ! Universalists appear to think, that
because the 24th of Matthew refers to the destruction of
Jerusalem, therefore every passage in the new testa*
ment which speaks of destruction or punishment, must
necessarily refer to the same thing! This is truly a
strange mode of reasoning, fully as illogical and unscrip-
tural, as it would be to contend, that because Is. 2. 3.
refers to the day of pentecost, therefore every prophecy
in the old testament relates to the same day. Why
should the apostles, in addressing churches, and breth­
ren among the Gentiles^ at more than a thousand miles
distance from the land of Judea, threaten the disobedi­
ent with the destruction of Jerusalem? Such was the
ease, according to Uhiversalism, with the Thessalonians.
They lived eleven hundred miles from Jerusalem; and
yet Paul threatened those who troubled the saints, with
an everlasting destruction and banishment from the temr
f k i when Titus came to besiege Jerusalem! This is
about as beautiful an idea, as for a man to go, and preach
to the Canadians, and warn every man night and day
with tears, to prepare themselves, for in about forty
years, there is to be an awful explosion of melted lava,
from the crater of Mt. Vesuvius!! If I only possessed
the power to make this thing appear as ridiculous as it
realty is; there is not a UnwersaVuft \u
AGAINST ITSELF. 1«
halfan ounce of perception* that would not blush for
shame, and abandon the doctrine forever. I know h is
contended, that those who troubled the brethren at
Thessalonica were the Jews, and that in all probability
they would be in Jerusalem at the time it was destroyed.
But this is all a mistake. It was the Gentiles, their own
countrymen, by whom they were troubled. t Proof:4
4For
ye brethren, became followers of the churches of God
which in Judea are in Christ Jesus; fox ye also have suf­
fered like things of your own countrymen, even as they
have of the Jews.” [1 Thess. 2. 14.] But the punish­
ment of the wicked, which is to take place at the coming
of Christ, cannot possibly refer to the tribulation of the
Jews, for in the next chapter, as we have seen, Paul puts
that day a great ways off; but speaks of the Jews in the
present tense:4
4The wrath is come upon them tothe utter*
mast.** [1 Thess. 2.16.] But since the Gentile disciples
at Thessalonica, were to be gathered to*Christ, at the
time he appeared to destroy the wicked; it follows, that
he did not come at the destruction of Jerusalem; for there
is not the tenth part of one probability in ten million,
that all the disciples were taken eleven hundred miles,
and gathered around Titus! #
9 9 T he EARTH AND THE WORKS THAT ARE THEREIN
s h a l l b e b u r n e d u p . Proof:4
4But the day o f
the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which
the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the
elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also, and
the works that are therein,shall be burned u p ” (2 Pet. 3.
10.)
Remarks: Universalists inform us that this is all figu­
rative, and has reference to the passing away ofthe old
Jewish dispensation. But it is a little queer, how a dis­
pensation could burn up; and how the elements of that
dispensation could melt with fervent heat! But it is even
stranger still, how the Mosaic dispensation could be disr
annulled and destroyed by Titus, thirty seveuyeax*
having been abrogated by the death oi CYvna\.\ ,
U N IV B RSA U SM
4*0
Eph. 2. 14v15. Col. 2.14. Gal. 3. 19, 24. Heb. $. ?6.)
You can see, that Universalists find no difficulty in mak­
ing any thing a figure, which, like the above text,
pomes ih direct contradiction to their theory. But they
say, it is unreasonable and absurd, to give Peter’s lan-
« e a literal application, for more than two thirds of
arth is water: how can water burnt This is exceed­
ing!y unaccountable in the judment of a Universalist;
yet he can swallow down the idea without any difficulty,
that ^dispensationcould takefire, melt withfervent heat,
he dissolved and burn uj>t But we are prepared to show
that a literal interpretation of Peter’s language is every
Way reasonable and consistant. Naturalists inform us,
that water is composed of two gases, hydrogen and oxy­
gen, which, when separated, will take fire as quick as
powder. Why may not God, by his Almighty fiat, de­
compose these gases, and make them serve as kindling
wood, ta assist in the conflagration of the Universe?
Could not every grain ofdust,by the decree of Almighty
power, be turned into powder, as easily as to be turned
” * s, as was the case in one of the ten
■
_
_____>
e changed to heaps of brimstone, and
all uniting into that grand, and eternal explosion, which
will one day wrap this earth in one convolving sheet
offlame! Here then,isnothingunreasonable, whilst eve­
ry thing in connection with thissubject proves it to be lit­
eral;and it follows hence, that the coming of the Lord is
connection with this wonderful event is yet future!
O O There s h a l l b e n e w h e a v e n s , a n d a n e w
e a r t h . ^Proof: “ Nevertheless we, according
to his promise, look for .new heavens and a new earthy
wherein dwelleth righteousness.” (2 Pet. 3.13.)
Remarks: This too, is.all a figure, according to Uni-
versalism. It dignifies a new dispensation, and a new
order of things, which was brought about at the destruc-
tion o fJerusalem. But,it isu \v\spromts*.’’
M ow hapoens it, that &promise oiGod\a*X\ ^
Upon the same principle, rocks and
AGAINST IT SE L F, 1ST
one case, but when they come to the promise made to
Abraham,—or some otherpromise^ which they can fancy
leans towards Universalism: and behold! «it is &
s literal,
as the day is long! IF the “promise” of new heavens,
and a new earth is a figure, 1 would like to put Univer-
salists to the test, to prove that there is a promise in the
bible to be understood literally. When tney'would un-
<dertake to show, that the promise to Abraham was liter-
*al, I could adopt their own system of logic, and prove to
a demonstration that it meant directly the opposite of
what it said, and thus, instead of all nations beingbless*
ed, it might signify a curse, or something as bad! Query:
If the events spokenof in this text, relate to the destruc*
tion of Jerusalem, and since that we have enjoyed the
new heavens and the new earth wherein dwells right­
eousness; what think you, must have been the old heav­
ens and the old earth, wherein sin dwelt?!!
C h r is t s h a l l d e l iv e r u p t h e m e d ia t o r ia l r e io n .
Proof: “ Christ the first fruits, afterwards they
that are Christ’s at his coming; then cometh the end,
when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God
even the Father.” (1 Cor. 15. 23, 24.1
Remarks: When Christ had completed his first com­
ing, he took the mediatorial reign; and athis second com­
ing, he will deliver it up to the Father. Now if Christ
came the second time at the siege of Jerusalem, he there
and then delivered up the mediatorship, and all flesh
since that time, have died and gone into eternity with­
out the least assurance of ever being saved. For where
there is no mediation, there can be no salvation! , Thus
these latter day-scoffers, who say,“ where is the promise
of his coming,” instead of holding out a universal salva­
tion, comes altogether nearer a universal damnation,
when it is once presented in its true garb, and reductio
ad dbsurdem! Consistency is a jewel or immense value!
but I fear ft will never shine in the crown of a Cniver-
salist’s;, for error is not only inconsistent w\\Yv
with every thing in the Universe!
168 U *iIV E R S A L IS M
W m tN HE COMES, HE SHALL DESTROY DEATH. PrO Ofj
“ <
tp or fe musf reign till he hath put all enemies
tinder hisfeet: the last enemy that shall be destroyed is
death.” (1 Con 15. 25, 26.)
Remarks: This caps the climax, and crowns the cap.
Christ is to reign, until he comes to make up his jewels,
and to deliver up the kingdom to God the Father; but
that which shall wind up the drama, and close the scene,
is the utter destruction of death» This cannot be until
all that are in the graves, shall hear the voice of the Son
of God, and come forth, and until the dead, small and
great, shall stand before God. Will Universalists con­
tend that Christ came the second time at the destruction
of Jerusalem? that he delivered up the mediatorial king­
dom,—raised the dead,—and destroyed death? If not,
let them just honestly yield the point,—give up Univer-
salism,—come out like men and acknowledge the doc*
trine all j
j
lhoax!
AGAINST IT SE L F. 10»
“ I W IL L COME A G AIN.”—Jo h n 14. A
l. Our Saviour once more upon earth shall appear.
In person as lit’ral as when he was here;
T h e clouds are his chariot, and glory his throne;
W hilst m yriads of angels his m ajesty own.
1. T en thousand bright saints with the Lord shall descend.
T heir strains of hosannas the heavens shall rend:
W hilst the angels who sung the glad song o f his Birth,
Shall gather his saints from the ends of the earth.
3. T he kingdom shall come, and the graves shall give way.
And his saints be redeem’d from their prison of clay;
For the trum pet shall sound, and the dead shall come forth.
From the east, from the west, from the south, from the north.
4. All the nations of men are before him conveyed,
His bar o f tribunal In justice arrayed;
Each tongue shall confess, whilst the Judge on the throne, •
Shall the wicked condemn, and acknowledge his own.
5. Each eye shall behold him, in awful attire,
The saints shall be glad, and their Saviour adm ire;
W hilst those who condemned him to die on the tree,
8hall wail, w hen that glorious Messiah they see.
I. ’Twill comfort the saints to reflect on the day,
W hen sorrow and sighing shall vanish aw ay:
W hen they shall be crown’d, and ascend to the skies,
And all tears Shall forever be wiped from their eyes.
7. These bodies, though vile, shall be fashioned aright,
And robed in a costume of glory and light;
With songs of thanksgiving, we’ll rise in the air.
And dw ell w ith our Saviour eternally there.
& The world shall be burned, and all nature dissolve,
And the earth on its axis shall cease to revolve;
W hilst the heavens roll’d up, shall depart as a scroll,
And the stars into regions of darkness shall fall.
I Creation, convulsed to her centre, shall quake,
At his voice the foundations of heaven will shake;
The sun and the moon shall- grow dim and decay.
Andtheearth, from hia presence,shall vanishaway*
910 UNI VERBALISM
10» Bat celestial heavensand earthshall bemade.
All garnished with glory, that nevershall fade;
The redeemedshall rejoiee inthat blissful abode*
Where sorrowshall nevertheirpleasure corrode.
11. Unpolluted bysin,and unhurtbydisease*
With their ensignof triumph, unfurl’dinthe breeze;
A crownof brightglorytheyevershall wear,
| And palra-wreaths of honor, triumphantlybear!
12. A convoy of angels, and chariot of love,
Shall escort them safe home to that city above;
Transform’d like the Saviour,seeurefrom all pain,
In his glorifiedpresence,foreverto reignl
13. But the wickedshall sink intodarkness and gloom,
Everlasting destruction,—their sentence and doom;
Fromthepresence of God and the Lamb they shall fleet
And the glory of heavon theynever shall seel
14. The remedial kingdomshall come toanend,
And theseeptre of pardon—
nolonger extend;
Death spotl’d of his trophies, all vanquish’dshall fall,
Thesaints saved in heaven, and GOD ALL IN ALL.
CHAPTER IIL
T H E G E N E R A L J U D G M E N T .
"THB FATHER JUDGETH NO MAN, BUT HATH COMMITTED ALL
JUDGMENT UNTO THE SON.”—John 5. 83.
Universalists have two theories at command,with re*
spect to the day of Judgment; so that when one gives
way, the other is seized as the only true ground upon
this subject. At one time they will contend, that the
destruction of Jerusalem was the day of Judgment, spo­
ken of in the scriptures; but when driven from this posi­
tion, they lay claim to the whole Christian dispensation,
and contend that men arejudged, condemned, and punr
ished, every day as they go along. Hence we know
not where to take them, unless we should take them
wherever W
e happened to find them. This, I presume,
we shall hav-e to do. But in the first place, we proceed
to examine the texts of scripture, relied upon as proof in
favor of the above positions,
“And Jesus said: for judgm ent am I come into this
world,” [John 9. 39.] The word judgment, as used in
the scriptures, does not always have the same meaning.
Of this fact Universalists appear to be entirely ignorant.
They argue as though this text, and every other in the
bible, which speaks ofjudgm ent, has reference to the
decision of moral character, and the execution of Amne
penalty. The context, however, must explain *udn
172 UN1VERS AL1SM
matters. The text above quoted has reference to another
subject altogether,»as the remainder of that verse will
prove. 4
4For judgment am I come into this world, that
they which see not m ight see, and that they which see,
might be made blind.” Christ had just performed a mir­
acle, in opening the eyes of a blind man; and he has
reference only to sueh displays of miraculous power, in
.attestation of his Messiahship; and for such miraculous
4
4
judgm ent” did Christ come into the world;—to prove
that he was really the Christ, the Son of God.” But Uni­
versalists contradict themselves, by contending as they
do, that Christ came the second time at the destruction
of Jerusalem to judge the world; and then immediately
quoting the language of Christ, to prove that he came
the first time for that very purpose! They not only con­
tradict themselves, but they make Christ contradict him­
self, by first teaching that he came to judge the world,
(as Universalists interpret his language,) and then affirm­
ing, as he does, in John 12.47: 441 came not tojudge the
world.” Universalists cannot for their lives, reconcile
this discrepancy, which is only a sample of the havock
they are continually making with the oible.
. But they quote another text:4
4
Now is thejudgm ent of
this world.” [John 12.31.] The Universalist exposition
of this language, would present the same contradictions,
as stated above. Hence, let it mean what it may, it
cannot signify what they say it does. But Christ speaks
immediately after, concerning his own death; and it is
most probable he refers to the unrighteous judgment
pronounced against him by the chief priests, which he
designates as 4
4thejudgm ent of this world;” for then was
fulfilled the prediction of Isaiah: 4
4He was taken from
trison, vxl&
from judgm ent” [Is. 53. 8.] Let it still be
orne in mind, that Christ has most distinctly stated,
that he did not come the first time 4
4tojudge the worldf
and hence, he did not come to condemn it; for it would
be most unreasonable to condemn men, before they were
« . The Saviour bears witness to this, and testi-
it “ God sent not his Son into the world to con-
AGAINST IT SE L F. I t f
detnn the world, but that the world through him migjht
be saved,” [John 3. 17.] And since Christ did not
come the first time to judge the world, he has therefore
reserved that work for his second coming; and as we'
have most incontrovertibly proven, in tne preceding
chapter, that his second advent is yet future, and will
be at the resurrection of the dead; it follows just as
incontrovertibly, that then, and there, will be the day of ~
judgment!
But we are referred to 1 Pet. 4. 17: 4
4The time is
come, that judgment must begin at the house of God.”
This, it is said, proves that now is the judgment day, and
that now, in the Christian dispensation, Christ is judging
men According to their deeds. But Universalists forget
their blustering, about the little word “ one” being itali­
cized in Is. 45. 24! They tell us that such words were
supplied by the translators, and are not to be found in the
original; and if Such words do not make good sense, they
are not correct! Very good, gentlemen: How about the
word 4
4is come?” If you turn to King James’s transla­
tion, you will find it in italics, just like that troublesome
little word 44one” which has caused so much blustering.
Neither will this phrase, 44is come” make sense, or har­
monize with the remainder of the text. 4
4The time is
come, that judgment must begin” Thus we have Umust
begin” in the future, and4
4is come”in the present tense!
If the phrase, will come, had been supplied, instead ofthe
one that is, the text would then be consistent with itself,
4
4The time will come that judgment must begin at the
house of God.” Both are thus put in the future tense,
which is not only consistent with itself, but as we shall
show, consistent with the whole revelation of God. In
connection with the above text is quoted another:4
4Who
shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick
andthe dead.” [1 Pet. 4. 5.J This however, does not say,
that Christ is judging the quick and the dead; although
the Christian dispensation had then been going on for
nearly thirty years. This demonstrates, that V
Y
te ctata»
ban dispensation is not the 4
4judgment day?' ‘StaixVa
F #
UNIVERSALISMO
i n
was then ready to Judge the living and the dead-^-has
been ready ever since, and is now ready; and he will
judge them, whenever the dead are raised, and they,
with the living, are brought to stand before God*
The fact that he was ready to judge them 1800 years
ago, is no proof that they were then judged; for, accord­
ing to Peter’s testimony, he might be ready two thou­
sand years, and it would be no longer than two days to
ns. This would not be very long! But we shall now
invite the attention of the reader to our positive testi­
mony.
T W E N T Y -FIV E INCONTROVERTIBLE A R G U M EN TS TO
PROVE T H A T T H E DAY OF JU DGM ENT, AND T H E F I­
N A L SEPA R A TIO N OF T H E RIGH TEOU S FROM THE
W IC K ED , ARE Y E T FU TU RE, BEYOND D E A T H , AND A T
T H E RESURRECTION OF T H E DEAD !
1 * The times of this ignorance God winked at; but
# now commandeth all men everywhere to repent;
because he hath appointed a day, in the which he wiü
^ the world in righteousness, by that man whom he
rdained.” £Ac. 17. 30, 31.]
Remarks: This 4
4day,” in which God willjudge the
world, cannot mean the Christian dispensation, for that
was then in progress. But this judgment day was still
future:—4
4willjudge? not isjudging! Mark this! Again:
in this future day, 4
4the world ” is to be judged; anduni­
versalista tell us that 44the world” means the whole
human family without exception. (See examination of
John 1. 29., chap. 1.) 447%e world” as Universalists
understand it, never was, nor never will be judged, in
the Christian dispensation, until the resurrection of the
dead; for, more than ten thousand times ten thousand
of the world, Were dead and in their graves« before the
Christian dispensation had commenced.
AGAINST IT SE L F.' ITS
Bat Universalista téli as, that Adam died, the very
t v he eat of the forbidden fruit; for it is not likely,
when God laid down the prohibition: 4
4In the day thou
eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die," that he used the
word 4
4day ” in any other than the sense understood by
Adam, that is, literally. We admit the premises,—
that God made use of the word day as Adam understood
it; but we deny the conclusion,—that Adam actually
died die day he partook of the interdicted tree. (See
Ezek. 33. 14.) Now let Universalista stand to their
own logic, and it will be then understood, that when
God speaks of a day in which he will judge the world,
he means to be understood 4
4a day,” in the literal sense
of that word. Very well, say you, that may all be ad­
mitted, and yet the day in which God was to judge thè
worlds may have reference to the destruction of Jerusa­
lem. In this, sir, you renounce Universalism, by admit­
ting that4
4the world " signifies only a few of the Jews,
and consequently, that Christ being 4
4the Saviour of thè
world” as well as taking away the sin of the world) has
reference only to those who died at the siege of Jerusa-
lem! Thus Universalism is in a bad fix, let* it take
which ground it will. But suppose we examine this Jer«
usalem business, and see how it will work along side of
this text 4
4God commands a l l h e n e v e r t w h e r e to re*
pent, because he has appointed a day, in which he will ”
destroy Jerusalem t! Y es, all the Gentiles,—with those
away off in the city of Athens,—they must all repent,
for in about twenty years there is to be a fuss raised
between the Jews and the Romans, down yonder in the
land of Judea, about twelve or fifteen hundred miles off!!
Wbat a wonderful inducement this must have been!
2 4
4For we must all appear before the judgment sea*
9 of Christ, that every one may receive the things
done in his body, according to that he hath done, wheth­
er it be good or bad." [2 Cor. 5. 10.]
Remarks: This cannot have reference to the chratiaa
àkpensatiom for Paul speaks in the fatante
m UNIVERSALISAI
m u s t a l l a p p e a r before the judgment seat of Christy
that every one m a t r e c e iv e .” Had he referred to the
Christian dispensation, he would have expressed himself
thus:4
4We all now stand before the judgment seat of
Christ, and are, every one, receiving, every day of out
livesyas we go along, according to ourdeeds.” Neither
can it refer to the judgment seat of Titus; for Paul, and
perhaps a large number of those whom he addressed,
were dead and in eternity, before ever Titus made his
advent* And if it could be proved, that they all lived
till Jerusalem was destroyed, still Universalists would
have to be wiser than serpents, and the old serpent along
with the rest, to prove that the whole Corinthian church
was taken nearly a thousand miles, to stand before Ti­
tus while he butchered the Jews! But Universalists tell
us that the words 4
4done,” and 4
4h i s in this verse, are
supplied by the translators; and that the text makes good
sense without them. They think by this means, they
will confine*it to this life. Let us now read it without
those supplied words* 4
4For we must all appear before
the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive
the t h in g s in bqdt, fi. e. all at once,—in a lump,]
according to that he hath done.” Is this receiving a
little here, and a little there, scattered along through
our whole lifetime!! Not exactly!
3.
2 5
.)
4
4
And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance,
and judgm ent to come, Felix trembled.” (Acts 24*
Remarks: This is but another demonstration of the
fallacy of Universalism, in trying to make the Christian
dispensation the day of judgment, or else Paul was not
yet converted to the truth: for, notwithstanding the day
of judgment had been going on, ever since Christ was
exalted at the right hand of God, nearly thirty years,
still the apostle understood the matter no better, than to
preach up orthodoxy,—that the day ofjudgment was yet
future! / Ah! say you, Paul certainly had reference, this
time, to the destruction of Jerusalem, any W «. But I
A G A I N S T I T S E L F / 177
think you will soon be glad to take that back. Felix
was a Roman governor; and think you, Paul preaching
to him about the destruction of Jerusalem would make
him tremble? Is it at all likely that # Roman governor
would be very much alarmed, to be informed that his
own countrymen were going to obtain a signal victory
over their enemies, and achieve a most wonderful con­
quest? Felix might be the very man, who would delight
in helping to pull down the walls ofJerusalem; yet, when
Paul gave him to understand that he, with his fellow
citizens, were going to succeed in achieving a mighty
victory, he was so frightened that he trembled! Can
Universalism go this?
A 4
4But I say unto you, that every idle word that men
shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the
day ofjudgm ent.” (Math. 12. 36.)
Remarks: From this also we discover, that the day of
judgment, when Christ taught the people, was yet future.
But it may be said, that this could be the case, and the
day of judgment still signify the Christian dispensation;
as that did not commence till the day of pentecost, when
Christ entered upon his reign. But was every idle word
that was spoken previous to this, brought to an account
since the dispensation of Christ commenced? How about
the idle words uttered by Judas, at the time he betrayed
his Lord? Did he give an account thereof, after the
day of pentecost? Not quite, unless he did it in eterni­
ty, and Universalists, I reckon, would not allow him to
do that. We shall let the Saviour explain himself fully
upon the day of judgment; before we close this chapter.
5 4
4For if we sin wilfully after we have received the
• knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more
sacrifice for sins, but a certain fearful lo o k in g f o r o f
ju d g m e n t , and fiery indignation which shall devour the
adversaries." (Heb. 10. 27.) “ But after thy hard and
impenitent heart, t r e a s u r e s t u p to IhyeeM
a g a in s t t b m d a t o f w r a t h , and reve\aUon> ot
178 UNIVERSALISM
righteous judgm ent of God, who w il l r e n d e r to e v e r t
m a n according to his works." [Rom. 2. 5, 6.]
Remarksr In the first text we have it declared, that
the wicked were to look for a judgment andfiery indig
nation still in the future; notwithstanding the Christian
dispensation had commenced upwards of thirty years
before. In the second text, the apostle asserts, that the
wicked were treasuring up wrath against some future
day, when there should be a revelation of the righteous
judgm ent ofGod. This will be hard to make jibe with
the judgment day of Universalism, at the coming of Ti­
tus; for it would be the essence of folly to suppose, that
the apostle would threaten the wicked Romans with the
destruction of Jerusalem, when they were the very men
who would destroy iti!
Z* “ God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast
them down to hell, and delivered them into chains
of darkness, to be reserved untojudgm ent? (2 P et 2.4.)
“ And the angels which kept not their first estate, but
left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting
chains under darkness, unto the judgment of the great
day.” (Jude 6.)
Remarks: Were the rebellious angels cast down to
hell, and reserved unto the destruction of Jerusalem to
be punished? I know Universalists contend, that these
angels were nothing more than wicked men. But Peter,
in the same chapter, testifies that angels “ are greater in
power and might" than men; (verse 11,) showing con­
clusively, that he uses the term angels not with respect
to men, but a higher order of intelligences. But let this
be as it may, it affects not the present argument in the
least; but admitting them to be men, makes the matter
only worse for Umversalism; for if men, who had sm*
ned, in the past tense, were then being reserved till some
future day, called the judgment of the great day, to be
punished; it behooves men now to take heed, lest they
fall into the same condemnation. Query: Were those
human angels punished for their avneas the^ywere commit-
i
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 179
ted! or, in other words, was God judging and punishing
them, and at the same time r e s e r v in g them unto some
future day o fjudgm ent to be punished ?!
Jude speaks of 4
4the judgment of the g r e a t da y .”
But it may be asked: Did you not take the ground at the
commencement, that the day of judgment was to be
understood literally! I certainly did, and say so still.—
But does this not contradict the idea of its being a great
day. It is known to all nations, that the fourth day of
July, among the American people, is a g r e a t day. Not
because it is twenty-six hours long! for it is a literal day,
and the same as other days, in this respect; but it is a
great day, because upon that day greed transactions
occur. So will it be in the GREAT DAY of God Al­
mighty, when he shall convocate the immense posterity
ofAdam, into the presence of his awful majesty, to know
their doom. Such indeed, will be a great and important
transaction, and such can truly be called4
4the great and
terrible day of the Lord!”
7 4
4And as it is appointed unto men once to die, and
after this the judgment, so Christ was once offered
to bear the sins of many.” (Heb. 9. 27, 28.)
Remarks: Universalists nave two ways of interpret­
ing this text W e shall examine both. They tell us that
4
4
after this the judgment,” does not mean after death; .
but after this appointment! Now if such language as
the above text proves that the judgment is before death,
then I have lost all idea, or else never had any, of the
correct combination of words into sentences. Let us
now look at a few grammatical parallels, which will pro­
bably explain this: It is appointed unto men once to die,
and after this the funeral: that is, according to Univer-
salism, he must have his funeral sermon preached before
he dies!! Again: It is appointed unto men once to
die, and after this be buried: that is, after this appoint­
ment, but he must be buried before death! Once more:
It is appointed unto men once to die, and after ft\\&
resurrection: that is, men will all be raised ftorcv \X
vfc
150 UNIVERSALISM
dead9 before they die!! This is a sufficient expose of
this criticism. Such outrageous quibbles are only got up
for effect, as any one can see; for Universalists are most
unmerciful in their lampoonings, if a man,in quoting the
above text, should say 4
4
after death? instead of 4
4after
this? But suppose the text did really read,4
4after death
the judgment,” Universalists could dispose of it, in the
same manner as they do'with scores of other texts, as
pointed and as emphatic as this: that is, it is all a figure:
death is to be understood ina moral sense and cannot be
understood literally!
But now for the other exposition! We are told that
tois anthropois, here translated men, should have been
rendered these men, meaning the Jewish high priests,
who, by going into the holiest of holies, died typically,
and after this came out andftfeeeecf the people, orjudged
them! I know not who was the original inventor of this
singular piece of machinery; neither do I care; but one
thing is certain, that it is now in as common use among
Universalists from Maine to the Mississippi Valley, as
Evans’s safety valve is among engineers. Hence let this
exposition prove a failure, and Universalism upon this
text, will be likemighty Sampson when shorn ofhis locks.
We shall now present several reasons, why tois anthro­
pois does not, and cannot mean the Jewish high priests.
1. Tois anthropois should not be translated these ?nen,
or those men, as Universalists contend; for, in all their
efforts to give it this signification, they have never as yet
brought forward one example, from the whole biole,
where the word is thus translated! This proves to an
occular demonstration, that no such example is to be
found; for if such a text there be, they would most
unquestionably have adduced it; as they have invariably
done in all such cases, where they could! This one ar­
gument weighs mightily against Universalism. Gentle­
men: tois is an article: Did you ever know this? And
did you ever read a text where the Greek article was
translated these, or those? No,never!
2. The dying here spoken of, was no\ ox
a g a i n s t I T S E L F . 181
else Christ died nothing but a figurative death; for the
text readsi “So Christ was once offered,” that is, in like
manner; and if it was only figurative, then he was not a
real, but a figurative sacrifice,—made nothing- but a fig­
urative atonement, and no man, at most, can have any
more than a figurative salvation through him! But if
Christ died a literal death, then the death of the tois an*
thropois was also literal; which proves beyond controver­
sy, tnat it does not signifythe high priest in the holy place;
for the Lord laid down this law: “And k shall be upon
Aaron to minister; and his sound shall be heard when he
goeth in unto the holy place before the Lord, and when
he cometh out, THAT HE DIE NOT.” [Ex. 28. 35.]
3. The high priest going through the blue veil of the .
temple, into the holy place, was not a typical death, but
typified exactly the opposite of death, as it was a type
of Christ entering through the blue veil,—the cerulean
curtain of the skies, into the enjoyment of an “endless
life” What death did Christ die, after he had entered
into the true holy place? Thus, instead of the high priest
dying a typical death, when he went into the holy place,
he entered into a typical life, which levels to the dust the
very bulwarks of universalism upon this subject, and its
advocates willfeel it, if I am not greatly deceived.
4. If the high priest going into the most holy place,
was the dying here referred to, then the apostle was sad­
ly mistaken; Tor instead of its being appointed unto these
men once to die, they had to die every year, for Paul de­
clares: “ Now when these things were thus ordained, the
priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplish-
H the service of God; but into the second, [the most
y place] went the high priest alone once every year”
[Heb. 9. 6, 7.] Hence it cannot mean the typical death
of the high priest, any way it can be fixed; for instead
of dying once, as the text declares, by the time he was
sixty years old,he had died thirty timesi
5. This text cannot have reference to the Jewish high
priest; for, after he. came out of the holy place, vasX&feA
oijudging the people, he blessed them. Thu*
UNIVERSALISM
182
«And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and
blessed them, and came down from offering of the sin of­
fering,—and Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle
of the congregation, and came out, and blessed the peo­
ple.” [Lev. 9. 22, 23.] But Universalists contend that
the word blessing signifies judgment• Let us now try
their own definition with the promise to Abraham: “ In
thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be judged"
If a general or universal judgm ent, be the blissing in­
cluded in the promise to Abraham, then we have no ob­
jection to Universalists making all the capital out of that
promise they can!
6. If a typical death is what we are to understand by
the text, then tois antkropois, signifies the animals that
were slain outside of the camp; for their death typified
the death of Christ, outside of the gates of Jerusalem!—
Hence, instead of saying « men,” as the apostle does, he
should have said: «It is appointed unto the lambs and
bullocks, once to die, and after this be roasted * Uni­
versalists are bound to admit, that this exposition is far
preferable to theirs, and that it comes more than five
times as near the truth.
7. Universalists make great ado, if any one should
happen to quote the text in this way: « It is appointed
unto all men once to die, and after this the judgment.”
But with all their ridiculing, and sarcastic slang about
making a new bible, etc., it can be demonstrated to be
the true meaning of the text. Turn to your bible, and
read Acts 17. 30: «The times of this ignorance God
winked at, but now commands a l l m e n e v e r t w h e r e
to repent;” and then turn to your Greek Testament, and
you will there find that very same knotty little word
tois antkropois, that Universalists have been trying, for
the last fifty years, to drive into the sanctum sanctorumt
Let us now read the text in Heb. 9. 27. in this way, and
we have the true idea of the apostle. « It is appointed
unto a l l m e n e v e r t w h e r e once to die, and after this
the judgment.” ! We hope Universalists will now be
satisfied, and that we shall hear no mote oi \he\t learned
a g a i n s t i t s e l f . m
Muttering about tots anthropois, and the Jewish high
8 * But the heavens and the earth which are now, by
• the same word, are kept in store reserved unto fire,
against the day ofjudgment, and the perdition of un­
godly m en” [2 Pet. 3. 70 , , . . .
Remarks: This text is most clear and emphatic, m
pointing out the day of judgment, and the perdition of
ungodly men, not only as still future, but simultaneous
with the end of time, and the dissolution of this earth by
fire. The only way Universalists have ever tried to
evade this most sweeping declaration, is by taking the
ground that it is a figurative representation of the de­
struction of the Jewish dispensation, at the downfall of
Jerusalem. They say it is inconsistent to suppose, that
this earth will ever be on fire literally, as here described
by the apostle; notwithstanding it is perfectly natural
for a dispensation to melt and bum up ! They argue,
also; that there was a day of judgment at the close of the
antediluvian age, when the wicked were destroyed by
the flood:—that there was also a judgment at the con­
clusion of the dispensation before the law, when the
wicked Egyptians were destroyed in the Red Sea; and
that there should be a day of judgment at the breaking
up of the Jewish economy. This is all reasonable, and
consistent, we freely admit, and with a very little restric­
tion, is the true state of the case; and this being so, we
ask, where is the impropriety of their being a day of
general judgment at the closing up of the Christian dis­
pensation? Why should the Christian age differ from all
others? Universalists are compelled to admit, according
to their own logic, and upon the principles of consisten-
2', that there will be a general judgment at the close of
is dispensation! But the judgment at the flood, at
the Red sea, and at the destruction of Jerusalem, were
all temporal judgments, and never spoken of as «the
day of judgm ent” once in the whole b\b\e*
L et us now inquire, if the earth, whichii he wonr
184 UNI VERBA LISM
vatcd by fire at the day of judgment, is to be understood
literally, or as having reference only to an age or dispen­
sation. Universalists acknowledge, that the earth was
literally deluged with water; and we have an abundance
of testimony to prove that it underwent some change or
transformation, which was considered a destruction.—
Peter says it “perished” and God said to Noah: 441will
establish my covenant with you, neither shall all flesh be
cut off any more by the waters of a flood, neither shall
there any more be a flood to destroy the earth*” [Gen.
9. 11.] Peter keeps up the contrast, between the earth
that then was, and the earth that is now: one being
literally deluged and renovated by water; and the other
being destined to be as literally deluged, and renovated,
or regenerated by fire: for God declares:4
4Behold I make
all things new ” [Rev. 21. 5.] This old earth, or the
earth in its old sin-worn and sin-polutled state, is to pass
away. God said to Noah: 4
4While the earth remain-
e t h [Gen. 8. 22.] showing plainly, that it was not al­
ways to remain. Christ also testifies: 4
4Verily I say
unto you: till heaven and earth p a ss” [Math. 5. 18.]
This shows that there will be a time, when heaven and
earth shall pass. Again:4
4
Heaven and earth shall pass
away9but my words shall not pass away." [Math. 24.
35.] Paul, however, puts the question forever at rest, and
shows that the heavens and the earth, which are to be
destroyed, and pass away, must be understood literally,
as meaning this physical Universe, which God has cre­
ated. 4
4
And thou Lord in the beginning hast laid the
f o u n d a t io n o f t h e e a r t h ; and the heavens are .the
works of thy hands; they shall p e r is h , but thou remain-
est; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment; and as
a vesture shah thou f o l d t h e m u p , and they shall be
changed” [Heb. 1.10-12.] Thisproves that the literal
earth which we now inhabit, the foundations of which
God laid in the beginning,is to be destroyed and changed:
and when can this take place, but at the time marked
out by Peter,—the flay of judgment, and the perdition
o f ungodly men? The cand\d and reader
oust decide for himself*
195
A G A IN S T I T S E L F .
Q 4
4
And delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy con?
versation of the wicked,—the Lord knoweth how
to deliver the godly out of temptation; and reserve the
unjust unto the day of ju d g m e n t to be punished” [ 2 Pet.
2. 7, 9.]
Remarks: The certainty of a future judgment, at
the resurrection ofthe dead, is so clearly sustained from
this text, that it needs not a comment. The Sodomites,
the very characters who vexed the soul of righteous Lot,
with their unlawful deeds; are now being reserved, to
some future day of judgm ent to be punished: which can­
not be until the Sodomites are raised from the dead!—
How will Universalists reconcile this with their theory,
of receiving in full for their sins, every day as they go
along? Does God reserve men till some future day to
be punished, and punish them all the while he is reserv­
ing them? But we have another text which will con­
firm this, and dispel all doubt concerning its being yet
fixture.
■t “Wo unto thee Chorazin, wo unto thee Beth-
saida,—it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and
Sidon at the d a y o f ju d g m e n t , than for you. And
thou Capernium which art exalted unto heaven, shalt
be brought down to hell,—it shall be more tolerable for
the lana of Sodom in the d ay o f ju d g m e n t than for
thee.” [Math. 11. 21-24.]
Remarks: The plain, unvarnished, and unsophistical
force of this text, defies the ingenuity of Universalism.
It is here most unequivocally stated, that the men of
Tyre, Sidon, and Sodom, are all to be in the day of judg­
ment, still in the future. These characters were *all in
eternity, hundreds of years before Christ made this
statement; yet they “ s h a l l b e ” in some future day of
judgment^ with the people of Chorazin, Bethsaida and
Capernium. Was this at the destruction of Jerusalem?
I think hardly! nor never will be till the dead are
raised. But Universalists try to make out lY
vaX
.
omites will be raised holy and happy, by appes&vn% V)
1 3 o*
1*0 U N IV E R S A L IS M
the prophesy of Ezekiel. We shall follow them,thither,
as we wish to ferret the system, out of its most obscure
hiding places, and search it, as with a lighted can*
die. The following language is quoted in proof of the
above position. When I shall bring again their captiv­
ity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, ana the
captivity of Samaria and her daughters, then will I
bnng again the captivity of thy captives in the midst of
them:—When thy sisters Sodom and her daughters shall
return to their former estate; and Samaria and her
daughters shall return to their former estate; then thou
and thy daughters shall return to your former estate.—
And I will establish my covenant with thee, and thou
shalt know that I am the Lord: That thou mayest re­
member, and be confounded, and never open thy mouth
any more, because of thy shame, when I am pacified.to­
ward thee, for all that thou has done, saith the Lord
God.” [Ezek. 16. 53, 55, 62, 63.J Here then is their
testimony, in favor of the Sodomites at the resurrection
of the the dead. But how did [Tniversalists happen to
find out so quick that this was all literal? This is in­
deed a------no, not a mystery; for they thought it favored
Universalism, and therefore must be literal, no mistake
about that! But had the words d a m n a t io n , h e l l , or
ju d g m e n t happened to have occurred in this connec­
tion, the whole matter would have been immediately
converted in a bundle of rhetroical figures!
Now just to accommodate these very accommodating
gentlemen, we will admit the whole representation to
be literal: although there is as much reason for its
being figurative, as for any other prediction in the bible.
The text declares, that u Sodom and her daughters shall
return to their former e s ta te as Universalists under­
stand it, at the resurrection. This proves that they will
be sinful and miserable in the resurrection, for such they
were, and such was theirformer estate, before they were
destroyed! Truly, if the text comes no nearer the
mark than this, it will take it a long time to prove Uni-
versalism. Again, the text reads, * \Y
va\.
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . IW
member and be confounded” Ah, and that too m the
resurrection! Are they to be believers, and at the same
time be confounded ? No, for Peter says: “ He that be-
lieveth on him, [Christ] shall not be confounded.9
’ [1 Pet.
2. 6.] Then they are unbelievers in eternity, and con
sequently condemned, for, “ He that believeth not is con­
demned already.” (John 3. 18.) But the text also says
they are to be ashamed, and hence they are not the
people of God, for God says: “ My people shall never be
ashamed.” (Joel 2. 26.) But worse and worse! The
text declares, that they shall “ never open their mouths
anym ore” Is this the way Universalists intend to sing
the songs of redeeming love! by never opening their
mouths any more? How long is “ any more f” You re­
member the Universalist text m Luke 20. 36. “ Neither
can they die any more!” that is, they shall not die to all
eternity. From this we can come at something like an
idea, of what the Universalist salvation of the Sodomites
will consist in. They will not be the people of God, for
they will be ashamed,—they will be confounded,—they
will be condemned, and they will have to keep their
mouths shut eternally! This is a specimen of the beau-
ty, glory, and sublimity of Universalism.
But what is to be done with this? God says he is to
be pacified towards thein. Let us inquire, what is meant
by the word pacify? Universalists say it means to be
reconciled. It occurs in only one other place in the bi-
blc, and that is Est. 7. 10. “ So they hanged Haman on
the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. Then
was the king’s wrath pacified.” Thus may God be pa­
cified towards the Sodomites, after the resurrection,
when he has confounded, and condemned them, and sen­
tenced them eternally to shut their mouths!
| u The men of Nineveh shall r is e in ju d g m e n t
with this generation, and shall condemn it: be­
cause they repented at the preaching of Jouah\ acA
behold a greater than Jonah is here. The queen cA
South shall aiax u p is j u d g m e n t with this x
m I) NIVE REALISM
and shall condemn it, for she came from the uttermost
parts of the earth, to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and
behold, a greater than Solomon is here.” [Math. 12. 41,
42J
Remarks: If this does not prove a judgment at the
resurrection, then it is not in the power of language to
express such a sentiment. The men of Nineveh, and
the queen of Sheba, although having been dead, and in
their graves for hundreds of years; still the Saviour
points to the future, and declares that they u shall rise
up in judgm ent.” When can this be, but at the resur­
rection? Mark the word 4
4r is e u p ;” egersis in the Greek,
and the precise word employed by the apostle in the
15th of 1st Cor. which Universalists acknowledge and
contend, refers to the literal resurrection of the dead.—
Thus we have it incontrovertibly established, that in
the literal resurrection, the men of Nineveh and the
queen of Sheba, shall rise up in ju d g m e n t . I cannot
see how a Universalist would attempt to evade this tes­
timony.
t o For as many as have sinned without law, shall
also perish without law; and as many as have sin­
ned in the law, shall be judged by the law, in t h e dat,
when God shall judge the secrets ofmen by Jesus Christ,
according to my Gospel.” [Rom. 2.12, 16.]
Remarks: I have quoted the connection, by leaving
out the parenthesis. This text informs us, that 4
4as
many, [i. e. aU\ that have sinned in the law, [including
as a matter of course, those who sinned, and fell in the
wilderness] s h a l l b e ju d g e d by the law-” This teaches
unequivocally, that those who had sinned in the law,
and had been dead for more than a thousand years,
were still to be judged, in some future day, which can­
not be till the resurrection, when God shall judge the
secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to the gospel.
This is the same d a t which God has appointed,4
4in the
which he will ju d g e t h e w o r l d m righteousness, by
that man whom he hath ordained.” l i r a vYrarotate
A G A IN ST I T S E L F .' 19»
the destruction of Jerusalem? Not quite: for those dead
sinners were not raised at that time; neither were those,
who were present on that occasion, judged according
to the g o s p e l , but according to the law of Moses. (Read
Deu. 28.) Hence it is incontrovertible, that the day of
judgment is still future, and will not take place till the
DEAD A RE RAISED.
f o “ I saw the dead, both small and great, stand before
God, and the books were opened, and another
book was opened which is the book of life, and the dead
were judged out of those things which were written in
the books, according to their works. And the sea gave
up the dead which were in it; and death and hell deliv­
ered up the dead which were in them; and they were
judged every man according to their works: and death
and hell were cast into the lake of fire: this is the second
death.’’ [Rev. 20.12-14.]
Remarks: Universalists do not pretend to reconcile
this text with their doctrine. They do, however, try to
evade its force, by resorting to their old thread-bare,
hacknied assumption, offigure, allegory, m etaphoretc.
They try to make this out a figurative representation of
things which belong exclusively to this world, from the
fact that this punishment is to continue 4
4day and night
1 forever and ever.” (Verse 10.) But how happens it that
*day and night ” is to be understood literally all at
once, whilst the whole connection is figurative? This is
one of the great and marvellous things of Universalism!
As they admit the phrase 4
4day and night ” to be literal,
it will puzzle a Jesuit to prove, that thejudgment of the
l dead, both small and great, fa all a figure! We are fre*
I quently told very shrewdly, that the phrase 4
4day and
nightp cannot at all refer to the state beyond thé resur­
rection. Well let us see. The Pro and Con of Univer-
galism, by George Rogers, on page 106, quotes Rev. 7.
9,and applies it to the resurrection state. 4
4And after
this I beheld, and lo, a great multitude, wV
y
y
c
X
y no roan.
coaid number, o f all nation9, and kindred*,
490 U N IV E R B A L IS M
and tongues, stood before the throne, and before
Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in tl
hands.1
’ This, let it be remembered, is quoted to pro
that after the resurrection all mankind are to be sav
for they shall wear 4
4white robes." It does not. howe
teach this doctrine, although we admit with them tha
refers to the post resurrection state: for mark the f;
it was not all kindreds, people,'tongues, &c., but it \
4
4a great multitude OF all nations, and.kindred, and p
pie, and tongues," which makes the matter widely dif
ent But let us read on concerning this great multitu
4
4And one of the elders answered saying unto me, w
are these, which are arrayed in white robes, and whei
come they? And I said, sir, thou knowest And
said to me, these are they which come out of great t
ulation, and have washed their robes, and made th
white in the blood of the Lamb: therefore are they
fore the throne of God, and serve him DAY Al
NIGHT in his te m p le (Ibid. 15-17.) Here then, l
versalists have to admit, that 4
4day and night ” in
Revelations, may, and actually does apply to eterni
But if this judgment scene, being measured by wo
strictly applicable only to time, is a proof that it is c
fined to tnis world exclusively, then upon the same pi
ciple, the existence of God will end with the history
time; for it is said concerning him:4
4Thou art.the sai
and thy years shall not fail." (Heb. 1. 12.) But agi
we have the testimony of Pro and Cony proving to
absolute certainty that this scene ofjudgment,descril
by the Revelator, refers to the resurrection state. 1
snail give a quotation from page 119.
Hell is fated to the same end, [i. e. destruction.] C
says by the prophet, 44I will ransom them from the pc
er ofsAeoI,(grave or hell;) I will redeem them from de<
O death,'I will be thy plagues. O sheol, I will be
destruction.1
1 (Hos. 13. 14.) John’s description (hig
figurative unquestionably) m u s t r e f e r t o t h e m
e v e n t . 44 Ana death and hades were cast into the 1
;
o f fire: this is the second death." Wave the desxxos*
* fdeath itself is termed the second death.
A G A IN S T I ^ & E L F 191
Very good, friend George: you admit then, do you,
when men shall be delivered from the power of the
grave, and when death shaii be destroyed, that then and
there will be the lake of fire and brimstone described by
the Revelator! Yes you do! And you have not for­
gotten your favorite text—1. Cor. 15. 26, which also de­
clares that death the last enemy 4
4shall be destroyed” at
the resurrection; which you admit, and contend to be
yet future! Now, sir, since the fake of fire is to be at
the resurrection of the dead, we shall let John tell you
what else besides death and hades is to be cast into it,
at that time! If you take part of his testimony upon
this subject; you are bound to take all. 4
4And whosoev-
er was not found written in the book of life, was cast into
thelake of fire,” (verse 15,) at theresurrection ofthe dead!
Mark this! Again:4
4But the fearful and unbelieving,
and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers,
and sorcerers, and idolaters, wad all liars, shallhave their
part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone:
w h ic h , is t h e seco n d d e a t h .” (Rev. 21. 8.) And all
too, at the resurrection; for so testifies Paul, so testifies
John, and so testifies George! And it must be true; for
4
4In the mouth of two or three witnesses, shall every
word be established.” (2 Cor. 13. 1.)
H 4
4And have hope toward God, which they them-
• selves also allow, that there shall be a resurrec­
tion of the dead, both of the just and of the unjust; and
h e r e in do I e x e r c is e HTSELF, to have always a con­
science void of offence, toward God, and toward men.”
[Acts 24. 15, 16.]
Remarks: Universalistanever quote verse 16; for that
appears to favor the idea, that Paul exercised him self
and cultivated his disposition, with direct reference to
this general resurrection of which he speaks: Hence
this much of Paul’s testimony must be kept behind the
curtain. Universalists admit, without hesitation, that
this text relates to the same resurrection, u^on
Paul treats in 1 Cor, 15. But they contend
m UN frV ERSA LISM
text does not teach that men will be unjust when they
are raised: for Paul, they say, must have possessed the
spirit of a demoo, to hope for the resurrection of men
to damnation! But Universalists contend that Paul
hoped; and exhorted the disciples to hope, for the com­
ing of the Lord, at the destruction of Jerusalem, to des­
troy and masacre the Jews by thousands ; and yet it
would be inconsistent, for Paul to hope for the resurrec­
tion of the wicked to justice! But the truth is, every
righteous man must hope and desire, that justice' ana
righteousness will be done; if it should even consist in
the resurrection of the wicked to eternal damnation.—
Like the souls of them that were beheaded for the wit­
ness of Jesus, crying under the altar: “ How long, 0
Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge
our blood, on them that dwell on the earthF* [Rev* 6.
10*] God has said, in many places, that he will raise the
wicked to damnation; and the Judge of all the earth will
do right* Now cannot a Christian consistently hope for
God to do what is right? If so, then he can with all
propriety, hope for the resurrection of the unjust to con­
demnation; for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it*
And God would not say he would do a thing that was
wrong! But Universalists have a similitude, which, like
their exposition of tois anthropois, has gone the grand
rounds, and is pat in the mouth of every braggadocio
in the fraternity. Suppose, say thev, I should hope
for the resurrection of all the Methodists and Presbyte­
rians in this house, would it follow, that I hoped they
would be raised Methodists and Presbyterians? or that
they would continue thus after they were raised ? I an­
swer no! But the case is not at all parallel. Paul
hoped, not for the resurrection of the just and of the
unjust who were alive; put for the resurrection of the
d e a d , both ju s t and u n ju s t . This proves that they
remain j u s t arid u n ju s t after d e a t h ; and that the same
distinction is kept up after men leave this world, that
exists before it. Now suspose it to be a fact, that men
xo actually remain Methodists and
AGAINST IT S E L F . 191
they die, the same as they are now; and a man should
hope for a resurrection of the d e a p , both Methodists and
Presbyterians; would it not be perfectly natural and con­
sistent to infer from his language, tjiat he expected
them to be Methodists and Presbyterians at the resur­
rection, as much as before it? Most certainly* This
exactly meets the case; and the originator and retailers
of the above similitude, have not perception enough to
detect its fallacy, and inappropriateness; or seeing it,
they have not enough candor to confess it* Now since
Universalists freely admit the resurrection of the ju st,
as welt as of the unjust to be literal; let us ask the Sa­
viour, whether there will be any distinction at that time;
between the righteous and the wicked? He answers:
“ Thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense
thee; for thou shalt be recompensed a t t h e r e s u r r e c ­
t io n o f t h e j u s t .” [Luke 14. 14.] Thus at the resui>
rection of the ju st, the righteous shall be rewarded for
their deeds in this life; and upon the same principle, at
the resurrection of the unjust, the wicked will receive
their condemnation!
The whole bible carries out the idea of the same dis­
tinction existing between saints and ainnersy—
ju st and
unjust, after death, as before it. When Christ arose,
many bodies of the i ___ t arose.” [Math. 27.
52.] If there is no difference after death between saints,
and those who die in their sins; why then.this partiality
towards the dead saints? Why not on this occasion,
have raised the bodies of the wicked, as well as of the
righteous, and thus have demonstrated the truth of Unir
versalism? How easy this would have been: but Uni-
versalism was not true, and hence, none of the wicked
arose, proving that the same distinction exists between
saints and sinners, both in time and in eternity.
« Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine
of Christ, let us go on to perfection; nox\nN\n%
•gain the foundation o f repentance from w&ta
we are informed were opened; and
UN1VERSALISM
***
and of faith towards God, of the doctrine of baptisms,
and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the
dead, and of e t e r n a l ju d g m e n t .” [Hob. 6. 1-3.]
Remarks: What testimony could be more positive
than this, that the day of judgment is beyond the resur­
rection? If the idea could be conveyed, in language
^ o re definite and unequivocal, I should be extremely
curious to know how it would be fixed! The apostle
here informs us, that one of the principles of the gospel,
is the resurrection of the dead; and the one immediately
following this, is the “ e t e r n a l ju d g m e n t !” This can­
not refer to the destruction of Jerusalem, for two rea­
sons: 1* The dead were not raised at that time, but
right the opposite,—many thousands were killed; and
2. The calamity brought upon the Jewish nation, was not
an eternaljudgment) but the whole affaif was of a tem­
poral character. But this eternaljudgment must neces­
sarily belong to the eternalstale of existence; and hence,
as the apostle here affirms, it will take place subsequent­
ly to the resurrection of the dead! This however is but
a sample of the evidence we have yet to adduce.
X
K
*
*
5
*
“ But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why ,
dost thou set at naught thy brother? for we shall |a
all stand before the ju d g m e n t s e a t o f C h r is t : for it is
written, as I live saith the Lord, every knee shall bow y
to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.” [Rom»
14.10,11.] I
Remarks: This language was written many years af- |
ter the Christian dispensation had commenced, and the t
apostle still speaks of the judgment seat of Christ as be- l
ing future. Neither can it mean the destruction of Jer-
usalem. For all the saints at Rome were certainly not ,
taken sevejpjf^n hundred miles, to appear before Titus, ,
at his contentwith the Jews! And moreover, Paul, (as l
was unquestionably the case with many addressed at that (
time,) was dead, and in his grave, before ever the judg- ,
ment seat of Titus was erected. But Universalists thon*
selves shell now decide, to what period the apostle re-
n
Hi
T
V
W
,
tv
;
H
i'
vJ'
Lt
U
tsi
W
ft
tf*
AGAINST I T S E L F . m
fers to this language. You recollect that Is. 45. 23, is
quoted as incontrovertible evidence, that the whole hu­
man family will be saved at the resurrection; because
there and then the Almighty declares, that 4
4every knee
shall bow, and every tongue shall confess!” This text
is thus quoted and applied, by every Universalist in
Christendom. Now, reader, take notice of this most un­
answerable fact; that Paul quotes the same text precise­
ly, which Universalista universally apply to the resur­
rection, and proves by it that we shall all stand before
the judgment seat of Christ, at the same time when this
hewing and confessing shall take place!! This settles the
question forever with Universalism; and its advocates
are inevitably compelled, from their own premises, to ad­
mit the JUDGMENT SEAT OF CHRIST tO be at THE RESURREC­
TION o f t h e d e a d !! So stands the matter now; and un­
less Universalista abandon Is. 45. in toto, the world
cannot redeem their doctrine from utter destruction!—
But every body knows, that they will not yield up Is. 45.
as it is one of tneir strongest grounds; hence the doctrine
is gone by the board! “Amen! even so let it be.”
4
4Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how can
• • ye escape the damnation of hell?” [Math. 23.
marks: The only way Universalists have tried to
evade this text, and keep it from teaching a future retri­
bution, is by contending that the word gekenna, here
translated hell, literally signifies the valley of Hinnom,
a short distance from Jerusalem; and that the Saviour
here makes use of the word in that sense. Here again
is one of those strange and marvellous things of Univer­
salism,—that almost every passage in the bible, which
speaks of punishment, hell, or judgment, is to be under­
stood metaphorically! but in this case, it is most unques­
tionably literal; because if it should happen to mean any
thing, except the literal valley of Hinnom, it would eat
at the very heart of Universalism, and make it to wither
Jtire Jonah’s gourd!
33
196 U N I VERBALISM
Let m now examine into the meaning of this word, as
here employed by the Saviour. The fact that Christ
threatened the scribes and pharisees? with the damna-
tion of hell, proves that they were liable to- this damna­
tion; for? to say that he would threaten men with some­
thing of which there was no possible danger, would be
to charge the Lord with folly and deception. This be­
ing the case, then the word hell does not mean the val­
ley of ERnnom, for of this the scribes and pharisees were
m no danger. But suppose they were: who was there
to inflict this punishment? Was Christ to throw them
into the valley of Hinnom? No; for he says: “ The
Son of man innot come to destroy men’s lives, but to save
them.” [Luke 9# 56.] Did Christ design, that the apos­
tles should inflict this punishment? No, for he com*
»lands them to “ resist not evil,” and “ whatsoever ye
would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.”
[Math, 5. 39; 7« \%] Now the disciples would not wish
men to throw them into the valley of Hinnom; and hence
they would not do so to them, if they obeyed the Sa­
viour. Neither could they, had they been disposed; for
that matter belonged exclusively to the civil authority.
Consequently, if that punishment be inflicted at all, it
would be done by the Jews, who were at the head of
government. But who were these Jews? They were
these very scribes and pharisees, whom Christ threaten­
ed with the damnation of hell! And is it very likely,
that they would inflict this punishment upon themselves?
If they would not, there was nobody else that could; and
hence, the damnation of hell, of which the scribes and
pharisees were in danger, was not the valley of Hinnom!
Mark this! When Christ put the question to them:
“ How can ye escape the damnation of hell?” they might
have replied, had they understood him the way Univer-
salists now do: We can escape it easily enough; for this
hell of which you speak, we have in our own hands, and
we were never in the least danger of it; neither would
we punish any body, with the damnation of our hell,
for die offences you speak of*, for we, ourselves, are the
A G A IN S T I T S E L F , 197i
▼eiy men who have committed those offences. There
would be more propriety in letting your inquiry be di­
rected to your disciples,—how can you escape the dam­
nation of hell? for they doubtless will be the very first
candidates for this punishment. But be assured, that
we shall not hurt any man with the fires of Hinnom,
much less ourselves, for disobeying your word! This
would undoubtedly have been the reply of the pharisees,
if Christ in his remarks, had reference to the valley of
Hinnom. But suppose the Lord meant: How can you
escape the destruction of Jerusalem? The pharisees
might have replied: By slipping our necks into the hal­
ter, and swinging off to heaven before that time rolls
round!! How completely would a Universalist have-
confounded the Lord had he been in the place of one of
those scribes! But suppose the Saviour meant: How
can you escape the damnation of a guilty conscience?
They might have replied: By sinning ahead as hard as
we can, until out “ consciences are seared with a hot
iron,” and we get “ past feeling!”
From the foregoing, we consider the point incontro-
vertibly established, that the damnation cfheU does not,
and cannot refer to any punishment to be inflicted in
this life; and must consequently refer to the future state
of existence! But we shall now introduce another ar­
gument which stands very immediately connnected with
this, which must, in the mind of every candid reader,
remove the last vestige of doubt upon this subject
•| Q “ Fear not them which kill the body, but are not
able to kill the soul; but rather fear him which
is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.” [Math*
10. 28.]
Remarks? The ground taken by Universalists upon
this text, is known to all, who are acquainted with the
doctrine, to he this: The soul here spoken of means the
animal life;—the one whom they were to fear, signifies
the rulers of the Jews; and the hell in which both soul
Mad body was to be destroyed^ has reference V
o
198 U N IT ER S A LI8M
ley of Hinnom. We shall examine these points in reg­
ular order.
1. Does the soul here mean the animal life? It can­
not* Every one knows, that when the body is killed,
the animal life is destroyed; and hence it is all nonsense
to talk ofdestroying the soul9and the body, as two things
separate and distinct. More than this, the Saviour tes­
tifies, as recorded by Luke, that this destruction of both
soul and body in hell, is to take place after men are kill­
ed, or after the animal life is destroyed: which proves,
that the soul has reference to the spirit, or that princi­
ple which lives after the body is dead. “And I say unto
you my friends; be not afraid of them that kill the body9
and after that have no more that they can do: but I will
forwam you whom ye shall fear: fear him, which after
he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell; yea I say un­
to you fear him.” [Luke 12.4, 5.] From this it is estab­
lished, and let it be remembered, that the casting into
hell, or the destruction of both soul and body, is to take
place after the body is killed; and consequently after the
animal life is destroyed; which proves, that the soul does
not, and cannot mean the animal life! Why is it, that
the Saviour should be guilty of committing such unpar­
donable blunders, as speaking of killing the body, in con­
tradistinction to destroying die soul, if the soul signifies
the animal life? The very instant the body was killed, that
instant the animal life would be destroyed; for they are
precisely one, and the same thing! Suppose we look at
the instructions of the Lord, in the light of Universalism.
4
4Fear not them which kill the body, [that is, which de­
stroy the animal lifted but are not able to kill the soul,
¡that is,are not able to destroy the animal life,] but rather
ear him, who after he has killed the body, [that is, de­
stroyed the animal life,] is able to destroy both soul and
body in hell,” that is, he is able to destroy both the oni-
mal life, and the animal life in hell!! Thus Universal­
ism makes the Saviour t$ach, not only that man has pow­
er to destroy the animal life9and that he has not got
power to destroy the animal life: and a\so that some oth-
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 199
nan has so much power, that, after he has destroyed
animal life, he is able to destroy is twice more in the
ey of Hinnom!!! If such were the teachings ofChrist,
1might the Jews say as they did: “ Never man spake
this man;9
’ that is, no man ever spa^e suchconsum-
e nonsense!
But who were they commanded to fear? This
stion is easily answered, by taking into considera-
i the fact, that no man had power to do more than
the body. Hence the Saviour says: “ Be not afraid
hem that kill the body; but after that have no more
t they can do." But there is a being, who has in-
tely more power than man; who,after the body is dead,
power to kill the soul in hell,—I say unto you,fea r
u The object of the Saviour’s instruction on this oc-
ion, was to arm his disciples with Christian fortitude,
to nerve them with a holy, and courageous zeal, that
y might be enabled to bear up without fear, under
bitterest persecution, and the most dreadful tortures
; the ingenuity of man could invent; and even to sub-
, with resignation, to death itself, which they were
ired was the very utmost extent of the power of man,
at all likely? is it possible, that the Lord Jesus Christ,
er thus admonishing them to fear no punishment
ch could be inflicted by the power of man,) would
i right round in the same sentence, and contradict
self by telling them to be exceedingly fearful of the
's, who had power to cast them into the valley of
nom? Strange logic, truly ; yet it is positively the
elusion into which we are driven by following out the
iciples of this most hypocritical system of infidelity;
iked as it is, under the profession of faith in divine
elation. The Saviour warns us to beware of wolves
beep’s clothing. And I consider myselfas performing
best possible service to my countrymen, if 1 should
;eed in stripping the wool from these creatures, that
m they howl and chatter their teeth, all flesh may
w just what they are, and what trap to aotfet \Sasttv\
the Saviour did not contradict himse\S m \koa wk&t
900 UNIVERSALISM
ner. When the church was suffering the most violent
calamities, from the hands of her enemies, the Lord says:
uFear none of those things that shall come upon you.”
[Rev. 2. 10.] The apostle Paul writes to the brethren:
“ In nothing be terrified by your adversaries.” [Ph. 1.
28.] This same apostle also, after taking a view of the
promises of God, comes to the following conclusion:
“ The Lord is my helper, and I will notf*ar what man
shall do unto m e” [Heb. 13. 6.] According to Univer-
salism, the apostle Paul had come to the conclusion, that,
the Lord being his helper, he would disobey Christ; for
he was determined not to fear any thing that man could
do, notwithstanding Christ had commanded him right
the reverse,—to fear what the Jews could do ta him, by
throwing him into the fire!! We have now shown, and
we think incontrovertibly too, that the one, whom Jesus
Christ taught his disciples to fear, was not man; and
(Jniversalists will not say he meant the devil; hence it
must mean the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ
Let us now see if this can be sustained. “ Honor all men,
love the brotherhood, fear God, and honor the king.”
[1 Pet. 2. 17.] “ Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice
with trembling.” [Ps. 2. 11.] “ Let us have grace where­
by we may serve God acceptably, with reverence and
godlyfe a r” [Heb. 12.28.] “ It is nfearful thing to fall
into the hands of the living God.” [Heb. 10. 31.] From
these testimonies we discover, that it is God whom we
are to fear, and hence, the one who is able to destroy
both soul and body in hell, is that being, into whose
hands “ it is a fearful thing to fa ll /”
3. Having thus demolished two-thirds of the citadel of
our opponents, upon this subject; we proceed to the
other. What are we to understand by the word heUt
From the foregoing, it will be but an easy task, to give
a most satisfactory answer to this long litigated question.
1. We have seen that it was God, and not man, who is
to destroy both soul and body in hell; and he had no
hand in putting men into the valley of Hinnom. Hence,
ihat cannot be the heU here spoken of l Mark this l—
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . WL
i We have seen that theeeul does not, and cannot here
signify the animal life; but it is unquestionably the spirit,
or that principle which lives after the body is killed, and
the animal life has become extinct This is another in­
surmountable reason, why hell cannot mean the valley
of Hinnom; for Universalists themselves will not contend
that the fires of Hinnom can destroy the spirit / But
should they turn materialists, (the way some of them al­
ready have,) and contend that the soul and body die to­
gether, it will not help the case in the least: for any
other way of killing the body would destroy the soul, (or
the spirit,) just as easily as the fires of Hinnom: and thus
again, the Saviour is made to talk the most ineffable
nonsense. 3. We have seen that this destruction of
soul and body, is to take place after the death of the
body, and consequently after the soul and body are sep­
arated. Hence this destruction cannot take place till
the resurrection, when soul and body shall be reunited*
And since we have positive proof that it cannot mean
the death of the body; (i. e. the first death,) and since
Christ does actually speak of it as killing the soul; it
follows hence, that this language has reference to the
second death,*in the lake that burneth with fire and
brimstone;” or the * fiery indignation which shall de­
vour the adversaries.” All this is to take place, at the
day of judgment,—the resurrection, when the dead, small
and great, shall stand before God. The lake of fire and
brimstone, which is the second death, is the true, and
scriptural definition of that heU, in which the souls and
bodies of the wicked are to be destroyed; and I am cer­
tain that this position cannot be got over by the combined
power of a whole regiment of Universalists. But it is
said that hell cannot signify the lake of fire, because we
read, that death and heU shall be cast into the lake of fire
and brimstone, which is the second death. Was hell cast
into itself? But stop one minute, sir, and the difficulty
will disappear. That heUx which is defined by inspira­
tion to be the “ lake of fire and brimstone,” is, as l
already observed, translated from the GxeeVL g%-
UNIVERSALISM
henna, but that hell, which is to be cast into this gehen*
na, or lake offire, is hades, in Greek, a different word
altogether; and signifies the grave, or the unseen world!
But again it may be urged, that although this definition
of gehenna may be correct, still it does not prove that
any one will ever experience this destruction; for the
text simply states that he is able to destroy both soul and
body in hell,—not that he wUl do it! Upon this we re*
mark, in the first place, that it is charging Jesus Christ
with the most contemptible trifling, in holding out as an
inducement, or a reason why men should fear God, a
punishment which he knew did not, nor never would
exist, and of which no man ever was, or ever will be in
the least possible danger. Such pitiful hypocrisy is more
worthy of being ranked among old wive’s fables, than
among the sayings of him who 4
4taught righteousness
where great assemblies stood.” He was not guilty of
such gross impositions, and no such folly and deception
can be justly imputed to the Son of God. But we shall
now show that the fact of God, or of Christ being able to
do a thing, is proof that he will do it! 4
4Whereby he is
oi/eeven to subdue all things unto himself.” [Ph. 3. 21.]
Does not this prove, that he will subdue all things unto
himself? Universalists say so. Again: 4
4Wherefore he
is able also to save them to the uttermost, that come
unto God by him.” [Heb. 7. 23.] All parties will admit
this to be the same, as though the apostle had said:
will save to the uttermost,” &c. Having thus clearly
proved, that it is God whom we are to fear, and not the
rulers of the Jews;—that the soul means the immortal
spirit, and not the animal life;—that hell signifies the
lake offire and brimstone, or the second death beyond
the resurrection, and not the valley of Hinnom,—and
that God will actually, at that time, destroy the souls and
bodies of the wicked: we therefore leave the matter for
the reader’s reflection and decision!
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 20»
The rich man also died, and was buried, and in hell he
lifted up his eyes, being in torments.” [Luke 16* 22, 23.]
Remarks: The case of the rich man and Lazarus, has
been discussed and rediscussed, until I cannot presume
to say much upon the subject, that will be new or inter­
esting. However, I shall try to add something. The
only way Universalists have ever tried to dispose of the
matter, is by-making it out nothing but a parable. But
in this case, as we have seen in scores of others, Univer-
salists are but laying a snare for themselves. Although
we are perfectly willing to admit the representation to
be a parable; yet we ask Universalists how they can
prove it? Their answer always is: Because it is re­
corded: 4
4Without a parable spake he not unto them.”
[Math. 13. 34.] Very good! Then all that Christ taught
the Jews, was spoken in parables, and does not refer to
the future state, but is applicable only to this life. Let
this be remembered. Now let us ask the Rev. Mr. Uni-
versalism, to declare unto us this parable? 4
4In the resup»
rection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage,—
neither can they die any more, for they are equal unto
the angels, and are the chi
dren of the resurrection.”
be it remembered, was spo
dren of God, being the chil-
‘Math. 22. Luke 20.] This,
ten to the Jews, and remem­
ber also, that without a parable spake he not unto them;
and remember in the third place, that Universalism
teaches, that a parable cannot state a literal fact; and
that when it refers to the future world, still it represents
fects which belong exclusively to this! What now be­
comes of their resurrection holiness, themselves being
judges? The very plan they will adopt to make this
parable state facts literally, as they will occur in eterni­
ty, 1 will apply to the parable of the rich man and Laz­
arus, and defy Universalism to budge it a hair’s breadth!
These parabolical gentlemen contend, that the notion of
a hell, punishment, orjudgm ent beyond this life, was a
vagary,—a sheer humbuggery, derived by the Jews from
heathen mythology; and that it had no real
but existed only in the imagination; and \Y
vaX
» 4 UNIVERSALISM
reference to this, when he spake the parable of the rich
man and Lazarus. But I challenge the whole fraternity
of Universalists, to put their finger upon a single parable,
out of the whole number which Christ spake, and show
that he ever, in a single instance, predicated a parable
upon a phantasm, a visionary chimerical speculation,
which had no real existence! It is utterly impossible!
We shall look at one, as a fair sample of all the rest.—
u A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho,
and fell amongSieves, which stripped him ofhis raiment,
and wounded him, and departed, leaving him h a lf dead*
And by chance there came down a certain priest that
way, and when he saw him he passed by on the other
side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place,
came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.
But a certain Samaritan as hejourneyed, came where he
was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him:
and went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in
oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought
him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the mor»
row when .he departed, he took out two pence, and gave
them to the.host” [Luke 10. 30-35.] Permit me now to
ask the intelligent reader, if this parable is predicated
upon a chimera? It commences in the same way, and is
precisely of the same character as the one under exam­
ination? Had Jerusalem and Jericho no real existence?
Were there no such men as thieves? and was there never
such a thing as a man being stripped of his raiment,
wounded, and left h a lf dead2 Were there no such men
in existence as priests, Levites, and Samaritans ? Was
the existence of oil, wine, beast, inn, pence, host, &c*, a
chimera, a vague speculation of the Jews, derived from
heathenish superstition? A parable issometimes designed
simply to state a fact; in order to draw from it some les­
son oi moral instruction: and in other cases, one fact is
stated, and compared with some other fact; but never did
the Lord predicate a parable upon any thing that was
n o tfact• Neither did the Lord ever present a parable,
wherein the thing represented, was not. aXAeaaXecpial ta.
AGAINST ITSELF. m
the representation! Universalista deny this, and say that
the representation, in the parable of the rich man and
Lazarus, was ten thousand times as great as the thing it
represented. How appropriately does the wise man re­
mark: 4
4The legs of the lame are not equals so is a par­
able in the mouth of fools.9
’ [Prov. 26. 7j Let us now
examine for a few minutes^ the assumption, that the Jews
got their idea of a future retribution from the pagans.—
We are told that they mast have received this doctrine
from that source, because it is not revealed in the old
testament. We reply, that the heathen believed in the
resurrection of the dead; and as the Jews, in the days of
the Saviour, believed the same thing, they must there­
fore have received it from the heathen mythology; for it
is not revealed in theJewish scriptures: and if the heath­
en believed the truth, with regard to the resurrection,
why might they not also be correct, concerning the fu­
ture judgment?. But Universalista will tell us, that the
resurrection is taught in the old testament. We say
yes: just as plain,and no plainer, and not near as often,
as is the doctrine of a future judgment. The Sadducees,
however, did not believe in the resurrection, although
they believed the old testament. They explained, and
figured it away, just as easily as Universalista can the
future judgment!
Now since it is admitted by all parties, that the Jews,
in the days of Christ,did believe in the doctrine of a hell
after death, a future judgment, and a final separation of
the righteous fromthe wicked; we shall not argue at pres­
ent, from what source they received thesedoctrines, but
will state two incontrovertible facts, which must put this
subject forever at rest. 1. Christ never failed, on any
occasion, to reprove the Jews of all their errors, and to
correct every mistake they hadfallen into. 2. He nev­
er reproved them for believing the doctrine of a future
general judgment, nor even intimated that this doctrine
was a dangerous error, and a delusive heresy! Hence,
one of two conclusions must be true: either \Jn
b
XOfciviX
believed the doctrine o f a future jud^emenVViwuwd&V^9^
M6 UNIVERSALISM
as the Jews did; or else he wished them to continue to 1
believe a falsehood; the last of which would be to make 1
him out the basest hypocrite, and most consummate de­
ceiver that ever lived!
Is it not passing strange, that Christ should be a be­
liever in Universalism; and, insteadofreprovingthe Jews
for believing the monstrous absurdity of a day of judg- ,
ment, and future punishment, as Universalists now re­
prove those who believe these sentiments; he was fre­
quently so careless, as to speak of these very things, and
threaten the wicked with punishment in the precise lan­
guage which the Jews employed, to express their views
of this subject; and that, too, without the least intimation
that he employed such words, in a sense at all different
from the Jews’ acceptation of them? Again: The Jews
were always very much attached to their traditions, and
objected to every doctrine which crossed their track.—
Now, is it not singular, that notwithstanding Christ
preached Universalism, and with the most indefatigable
zeal went against every thing like a general judgment,
future punishment, or the existence of a hell after death;
still the Jews never urged the first objection against his
Universalian sentiments, which if believed would have
subverted their whole religion? The only consistent
solution of this difficultyis, that the Jews did not under­
stand his peculiarities. And here again it is most singu­
lar, that notwithstanding Christ came with the express
purpose of inculcating the sublime sentiment of Univer-
salism, and of repudiating the heart-withering dogma of
future punishment; and brought into requisition all his
wisdom and energy, to prove his positions: still, the most
critical lawyers and doctors* who waited continually
upon his ministry, with the express purpose of picking
a flaw with his doctrine, could not discover but that be
believed exactly with them, in relation to future punish­
ment! Now, since Christ believed and preached Uni­
versalism, and since Peter says: “ He has set us an ex*
ampie that we should walk in his footsteps,” it follows
tbereibre, that if Universaiists pieat&v
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . m
«0, they should preach it just as Christ did; that is, say
nothing about it, or at least, so as not to be understood
by the best critics in the land! But as Christ did not,
as we can discover, reprove the Jews for their belief in
a future general judgment, one of two things mpst be
admitted: either he believed the doctrine himself; or he
wished them to believe it, let it be true or false. And
as Christ did not preach Universalism so that the law­
yers could comprehend him, he must therefore have
preached it very obscurely indeed; and one of two things
must follow as a matter of course: either he possessed an
inferior talent, and had an exceeding poor way of ex­
pressing himself, or else he considered it a dangerous
doctrine to preach very plainly, and consequently, must
have been either sceptical, with regard to its truth, or its
utility. And if it was unprofitable then, to preach this
doctrine so as to be understood; and unsafe to reprove
men for believing in future punishment, it is certainly
wisdom in us, to preach the doctrine just as did our Lord,
enshrouded in so much mystery and obscurity, that no
man on earth would believe such to be our sentiment;
and whenever we go to reproving men for believing the
cruel dogma of hell ^nddamnation^ we should begin just
as Christ did: “ Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how
can ye escape the damnation of hell?” or, as it should
be: “ How can ye believe in the damnation of hell?” !!
But if Universalists should back off the track just here,
and contend that the Jews were all Universalists, as
well as Christ; still it will not save them from swinging,
but will be simply fastening round their neck the other
end of the rope! for it presents the sublime aspect, of a
whole congregation oi Universalists, persecuting their
preacher from city to city, until they put him to death;
and for nothing in the world, but for simply preaching
Universalism, the very doctrine they themselves believed,
•
—the only peaceable doctrine under the sun, which is
calculated in its very nature to make all men love the
Lord, and love one another» and the only ^VcVne
whoa received into the heart, will forever ew&x&e ft*
808 UNIVERSALISM
last vestige of the spirit of intolerance and persecotionf
But we shall now, after this digression, return to the
parable of the rich man and Lazarus. Universalists ask,
if wicked men, as soon as they die, enter into misery;
what is the use ofa day ofjudgment? We ask in return,
if the thief, the robber, or the murderer enters into jail,
whenever arrested, where is the propriety of a day of
trial, at which time to bring the culprit before the court,
to be judged, condemned, sentenced, and committed to
the penitentiary during life? Universalists may take
the ground, as they most generally do, that such a rou­
tine of operations, is beneath the character and dignity
of an all-wise God. This objection, however, is but
another specimen of their infidelity. The veriest Deist;
who dares to raise his puny arm against the Most High,
can bring scores of as consistent objections against the
bible. He will ask: When God sent down the destroy­
ing angel, and slew the first born of Egypt, why did he
not slay the rest of them, as he knew he would have to
do in a few days? Why did he put the matter off tilt he
got them into the Red Sea, when he could just as easily
nave killed them at home? If Universalists will recon­
cile this, with their views of consistency, we will recon­
cile every objection connected with this parable, upon
the same principle precisely.
Let us now see what is the true meaning of this para­
ble,according to Universalism. Lazarus represents the
Gentile nation, and the rich man represents the Jews;
and mark the fact, that these two nations embraced at
that time the whole human family. Very good. We
shall now read the parable according to this exposition.
u There was a certain Jewish nation, which was clothed
in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every
day. And there was a certain Gentile nation named
Lazarus, which was laid at the gate of the Jewish na­
tion, full of sores: and desiring to be fed with crumbs,
which fell from the Jewish nation’s table; moreover the
| dogs came and licked the Gentile nation’s sores. And
A came to pass that the Gentfte nation
k
A G A IN S T I T S E L F .
carried by the angels into Abraham’s bosom. The Jew*
ish nation also died, and was buried; and in hell he lifted
up his eyes, being in torments; and seeth Abraham afar
off, and the Gentile nation in his bosom. And the Jew*
ish nation cried and said: Father Abraham, have mercy
on me, and send the Gentile nation, that he may dip the
tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am
tormented in this flame. But Abraham said: Son, re­
member that thou in thy life time receivedst thy good
things, and likewise the Gentile nation his evil things;
but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented. Then
the Jewish nation said: I pray thee, therefore, Father,
that thou would’st send the Gentile nation to my Fa­
ther’s house; for I have five brethren; that he testify to
them, lest they also come to this plac$ of torment!!”
Now will Universalists be so good as to tell us, what
five nations there were in existence, as brethren to the
Jewish nation, after the Jewish and Gentile nations,
which embraced the whole human family, had died, and
gone into eternity? And after they tell us this, let them
also inform us, who was the Father of the Jewish na­
tion, to whose house the Gentile nation was requested
to go and testify! If it was Abraham, as Universalist9
admit, where was the propriety of the Jewish nation
requesting the Gentile nation to go to his Father’s house,
when he was there already?!
We shall now give our exposition, and let Universal­
ists beat it if they dare! The rich man represents the
Universalist preacher, whilst Lazarus signifies the poor
layman,—a member of this preacher’s parish. His be­
ing full of sores, represents the great number of doubts
and difficulties concerning Universalism, with which he
was troubled: and by his laying at the rich man’s gate,
desiring to be fed with crumbs which fell from his table,
we are to understand this honest hearted layman, set­
ting at the door of the Universalist tabernacle, feasting
upon the manna which falls in showers from between the
horns of the altar! “ Moreover doss came and Ucked.
bis sores” This represents the drunkard^
uto UNI VERBALISM
and profane swearers, coming to this doubting layman, ^ ¡j
and in the midst of oaths, and the perfume of whisky,
extolling die boundless extent of divine goodness, and
praising the glorious doctrine of Universal salvation, in
order to heal up his difficulties, and allay his doubts /—
“ And it came to pass that the beggar died, and was car­
ried by angels into Abraham’s bosom.” By this we un­
derstand that the laym an, being overcome by his doubts
and difficulties, renounced Universaiism; and being con­
verted to Christianity, he was carried by the instrumen­
tality of the angels, that is the true preachers of the
gospel, into thé bosom o f the Christian church ! “ The
rich man also died? that is, the preacher also renounced
Universaiism, and was buried, or enshrouded, in the ma- a
zes of scepticism ; and finally “ he lifted up his eyes in *
hell? that is in the dark dominions of A theism ; “ being \
in torments.” By this we discover the wretched, and
dolorous condition of him, who has no other prospect be- *
fore him, than at death to sink into the shades of eternal j
oblivion. In this situation he beholds Lazarus “ a fa r ]
off? representing the immense distance between Athe­
ism and Christianity; and in Abraham’s bosom,—the
bosom of the church, he was feasting upon the rich pros­
pect of future and endless felicity; when this bewildered
and gloomy Atheist, requests his old friend Lazarus, to
leave the church of Christ, and come over into the do­
minions of Atheism, to administer even one drop of con­
solation;—showing thereby that the last ray of hope had
departed from him! But this disconsolate wretch is in­
formed, that there is a broad and impassable g u lf be­
tween Atheism and the Christian church; and this gulf
represents the word o f Ood; which must forever separate
the one from the other! And finally,as his last request,
he desires Lazarus to go back to his father’s house, that
is, the Universalist church; and warn hisJive brethren, .
who were five other Universalist preachers,—to repent; *
that is, to leave off preuch‘
mgUti\\^T^\^Kv^—
com e to this place of torment”—tYùs text nvA
region o f fatality, as it is just as asAutà tor
AGAINST ITSELF. m
ist> if he acts consistently, and carries out the principles
ofhis doctrine, to become an Atheist,as it is for a wicked
man to die and go to hell!! Here then you have our
exposition of this parable, and it is as good a fit, and I
believe a little better, than any exposition Universalisfs
have ever yet found out!
O rb u Wherefore I say unto you: all manner of sin
and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men; but
the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost, shall not be for­
given unto men. And whosoever speaketh a word
against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him; but
whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not
be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the
world to come.” [Math. 12. 31, 32.]
Remarks: This is another exceedingly difficult text
for Universalists to dispose of. They have universally,
I believe, adopted the exposition, that “ this w orld” and
“ the world to com e” signify the Jewish and the Christian
dispensations: and if this be refuted, then they will ac­
knowledge, if they are honest men, that this text can­
not be reconciled with their doctrine, as the above is
the only way they have ever yet found out, of evading
its force. We shall in the first place, however, admit
for the sake of argument, that th is world and the world
to come do mean the Jewish and Christian dispensations;
and thus give them all they ask, and see if it will help
their cause. Then it follows, that those who blasphemed
against the Holy Ghost in the days of Christ, are not
yet fo rg iv e n ; for the Christian dispensation yet con­
tinues; and as those characters have been dead and in
eternity, for more than 1800 years; it follows, that they
have been all this while sinners ; and as Universalism
teaches, that sin and misery always go hand in hand, It
demonstrates hence, that for more than 1800 years men
have been suffering torment in the world of spirits! We
thus prove that Mr. punishm ent is a poor Saviour! If a
doctor should practice on a patient 1800 years^ and the
disease continue ju st as bad, as when he neTn\xven&.eh\
UNIVERSALISM
MS
Jou would not only think such a man a poor physician,
ut you would also conclude, that such medicine would <
never cure the disease, but finally destroy the patient!
Again: The Christian dispensation will continue as long
as Christ remains upon the throne; and he will reign
until the resurrection, as Paul teaches in the 15th chap,
of 1 Cor., and consequently, the blasphemers against the
Holy Ghost will remain sinful and miserable, till the i
4
4immortal resurrection.” And as Christ4
4shall reign,
till all his enemies are [destroyed or] put under his feet;” i
and as wicked men, or those who are in their sins, are I
enemies to Christ; it follows incontrovertibly, that those I
blasphemers will not be forgiven until they are destroy* 4
ed! And as the Christian dispensation is the dispensa­
tion ofpardon ; it follows also, if they are not forgiven I
in this dispensation, they will not be forgiven in any
other;—and as Christ delivers up the mediatorial reign,
when this dispensation comes to a close; it is established
beyond controversy, that the blasphemers against the |
Holy Ghost, will never be forgiven after that; for no !
man can be saved from sin, independent of the media­
tion of Christ!! This is meeting Universalism on its
own ground, and fighting it with its own sword.
But we shall now prove, that this worlds and the world
to come, signify the present and immortal states of exist­
ence, and not two dispensations. Let us first see what
is the meaning of “this world” The apostle declares:
4
4For we brought nothing into this worlds and it is cer­
tain we can carry nothing out.” [1 Tim. 6. 7.] That
is, we brought nothing into this state of existence, (not
this dispensation) and we shall carry nothing out! The
following texts are sufficiently plain without comment:
4
4Because as he is, so are we in this world” [1 John
4. 17-1
“ Hearken my beloved brethren: hath not God chosen
the poor of this worlds rich in faith ?” [Jam. 2. 5.]
4
4Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be
not high minded.” [1 Tim. 6. 17.]
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 81*
“ If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this
world) let him become a fool that he may be wise.”-^
—
[1 Cor. 3. 18.]
4
4For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this
present world.” [2 Tim. 4. 10.]
4
4We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in
this present world.” [Tit. 2. 12.J
“And he said unto them: ye are from beneath, I am
from above, ye are of this world) I am not of this world”
[John 8. 23.J
“And Jesus said: for judgment am I come into this
world.” [John 3. 39.]
“ He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that ha-
Uh his life in this world}shall keep it unto life eternal.”
John 12. 25.]
“ Jesus answered: My kingdom is not of this world”
[John 18. 36.]
In each of these examples, the true signification of
“ this world,” is this state of existence; and I here assert,
fearless of contradiction, that “ this world,” does not
once in the bible signify the Jewish dispensation l But
we shall now let Universalists themselves, tell us what
is the true meaning of this world, and its opposite that
world) or the world to come. Turn to Luke 20. 34: 4
4The
children of this world marry, and are given in marriage;
but they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain
that world [or the world to come\—neither marry nor are
given in marriage.” The whole fraternity of Universal­
ists admit, and contend that this world and that world
in the above text, refer to the mortal and immortal states
of existence! They would hardly be willing to inter­
pret this passage, the way they do the other: “The
children of the Jewish dispensation marry and are given
in marriage; but they that shall be accounted worthy to
obtain the Christian dispensation) neither marry nor are
given in marriage!” (Bee examination of Math. 22. 29,
30. Chap. 1.) Paul says, that Christ is exalted, “ far
above all principality, and power and might and domin­
ion, and every name that is named, not omy rntHtawn\A
'z u U N IV E R S A L IS M
'but also in that which is to come? [Eph. 1. 21.] This
world, here, cannot mean the Jewish dispensation; for
that had come to an end long before the apostle wrote
this letter. And the world to come in the above text, can­
not signify the Christian dispensation; for that had al­
ready come, in the past tense: and was not, as the apostle
testifies in another place:4
1the world to come whereof we
speak.9
9 [Heb. 2. 5.] But it may be said that Paul was
not speaking of the future state of existence, in connec­
tion with this latter text. I affirm that he was, both im­
mediately before, and immediately after he makes this
remark, 4
4Sit thou on my right hand, until I make
thine enemies thy footstool/9 [Heb. 1. 13.] When this
is done, the immortal state of existence, or 4
4the world
to come,9
9 whereof he was speaking, will commence.
In the same chapter he speaks of the destruction of
death, and 4
4him that hath the power of death, that is the
devil;9
9 and of delivering those,4
4who through fear of
death, are all their lifetime subject to bondage;9
9 and
also speaks of4
4bringing many sons untoglory? [Verses
10, 14, 15,] Can any man read this, with his eyes only
half open, and say that Paul was not speaking of the fu­
ture state of existence? I think hardly.
But Universalists sometimes assert, that, according to
our exposition, the Saviour is made to contradict him­
self: by first stating, that 4
4all manner of sin and blas­
phemy shall be forgiven unto men,” and then in the next
sentence affirming, that the blasphemy against the Holy
Ghost shall not be forgiven in time nor in eternity!—
Universalists do hot notice, however, the conjunction
4
4hut? which connects these two sentences; or they
would evidently see, that there is no contradiction. 4
4
All
manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men,
hut (that is, except one,) the blasphemy against the
Holy Ghost, shall not be forgiven.” They might upon
thj same principle affirm, that God contradicted him­
self, in giving a law to our first parents: 4
4Of every tree
o f the garden thou mayest freely eat: b u t of the tree
o fknowledge o fgood and evil,though sh a ll noteat oj fc?
AGAINST I T S E L F . 815
[Gen, 2. 16, 17,] meaning thereby, according to Univer-
salism, that they might eat of that forbidden tree after
while; but must not eat of it right off!! Well, says one,
be this as it may, Christ does not say that the blasphemy
against the Holy Ghost shall never be forgiven! 1 assert
that he does, “All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons
of men, and blasphemies wherewithsoever they shall
blaspheme; but he that shall blaspheme against the Holy
Ghost, hath NEVER forgiveness” [Mark 3« 29.]
Now, Mr. Universalism, how will you dispose of this?
Will you say that 4
4never1” only signifies a little while?
Let us see. God says to the man who fears his name:
4
4I wijl never leave thee, nor forsake thee,” [Heb. 13.5,]
that is, I will not leave thee nor forsake thee for a little
while; but finally I will depart from thee eternally!! If
the Universalist acceptation, of this unpardonable sin be
correct, then no Christian, (much less a sinner,) can have
any assurance of salvation from the promises of God.
But still worse: the Saviour not only declares, that the
man who blasphemes against the Holy Ghost shall never
be forgiven; but also, that he 44is in danger of e t e r n a l •
d a m n a t io n .” Universalists tell us that this 4
4eternal damr
nation” signifies the destruction of Jerusalem! Not so.
We have shown, according to Universalism, that those
who committed this blasphemy in the days of Christ, are
not yet forgiven, and will not be, as long as the Chris­
tian dispensation continues: and as long as men are tm-
forgiven, according to the Saviour’s language, they are in
danger of this eternal damnation: and dare Universalists
tell us, that those blasphemers are now in danger of the
destruction of Jerusalem! Not quite! Neither will it
do to say, that this damnation signifies the condemnation
of guilt, which a man receives, as he commits the sin; for
this, the blasphemer is not in danger of, as he has it al­
ready ! You could not with any propriety, say to a man,
when he was in the water: Sir, you are in danger of fall
mg overboard! Neither could it be saVd,
man who was already in hell, that h e was Vo tau g st
going there! H ence this damnation Vs ssa
216 UNIVERSALISM
Saviour teaches: 4
4He that believeth not shaU be damn*
ed? [Mark 16. 16.] This does not however contradict
the text which says: 4
4He that believeth not is condemn*
ed a lr e a d y [Jon. 3.18,] for the unbeliever not only has
the condemnation of guilt, in the present tense; but he
shall be damned also, in the future! For example: Sup­
pose a man is an unbeliever when he is thirty years old:
the Saviour declares that he “ shall be damned? Sup­
pose he is an unbeliever when he is eighty; yet the Sa­
viour’s words remain true: He 66shall be damned? still
in the future: and suppose he is an infidel the very last
breath he draws; and he dies, and goes into eternity an
unbeliever; as certain as there is truth in the words of
Christ, he 4
4shall be damned? still in the future, which
proves his damnation to be beyond death, in the eternal
state of existence, and consequently, an eternal damna­
tion/ This corresponds exactly with the language of
the text, under examination: 4
4Is in danger of eternal
d a m n a tio n and as Universalists admit, that this sin will
not be forgiven in the Christian dispensation; and as we
have shown, (and Universalists admit the same,) that the
Christian dispensation will continue till the resurrection
of the dead; it follows, hence, incontrovertibly, that this
eternal damnation, of which these blasphemers were in
danger, is beyond the resurrection: which agrees exactly
with Paul, when he speaks of4
4the resurrection of the
dead, and of eternaljudgm ent? which we have already
examined. This 4
4eternaljudgm ent? which the apostle
1 1 1 1 id the resurrection, must certain-
condemnation, for the condemnation must be always
according to the judgment which condemns! Here,
then, we leave this text, and if Universalists can prove
that the blasphemers against the Holy .Ghost, will be
forgiven, and that they will not experience an eternal
damnation^ to them be all the praise!
“And the kings of the earth, au&Xhe
^ x *<uid the rich men, and the cYntf
men can experience an eternal
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . M V
the mighty men, nnd every bond-man, &ncf every fire»«
man, hid themselves in the dens, and in the rocks of the
mountains; and said to the mountains and rocks, fall on
us, and hide ns from the face of him that sitteth on the
throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb; for the great
day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to
stand?” [Rev. 6.15-17.]
Remarks: The only exposition Universalists have ever
!
?et found out for this text; is the destruction of Jerusa-
em! But this will not do; for there is a scene decribed
as taking place, just before this4
4
great day of his wrath?
in the following language: tt And the sun became black
as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood, and
the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree
easteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty
wind." [Verses 12, 13.] These same wonders, which
are here placed just before this great day of his wrath,
are placed by the Saviour, not only after the destruction
of Jerusalem, (proving incontrovertibly, that this event
was not *the great day o f his wrath,” spoken of in the
above prooftext,) but also, beyond the tribulation of the
Jews, in being scattered among the nations of the earth!
“Immediately after the tribulation of those days, shall
the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her
light, and the stars shallfallfrom heaven.” (See exam,
ol Math. 24., chap. 2.) Joel predicts the same day, re­
ferred to in the Revelations: “ I will show wonders in the
heavens, and in the earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of
smoke; the sun shall be turned into darkness, and the
moon into blood, b e f o r e the great and terrible day of
the Lord come*” [Joel 2. 30, 31.]
The reader will bear in mind, that whilst Joel, as well
as the Revelator, places the darkening i f the sun b e f o r e
* the great day of his wrath,” or “ the great and terrible
day ol the Lord;” the Saviour places it a f t e r the de­
struction of Jerusalem, and (as we have shown in the
preceding chapter,) stillin the future to W
R\ wYiwfcv\ pc
o
nwt
that this “great day o f his wrath ” whan the wxdask
dtaii call for the rocks and the m ountain!
•It UNI VERBALISM
and hid« them from the face of the Lamb, will be at the
resurrection of the dead, when the Lamb shall appear
the second time, to judge the world in righteousness!
Universalists sometimes quote Mai. 4. 5. upon this sub­
ject, to confine, if possible, this great and terrible day to
the destruction of Jerusalem. But neither will this an- i
swer their purpose* “ Behold I will send you Elijah the
'prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day
of the Lord.” This does not say when this “great and
dreadful day” shall come, it only says that Elijah the
prophet (whom we admit to be John the Baptist) shall
come before that day, which is just as true, putting the
day 8till future, as it would be, if it had reference to the
destruction of Jerusalem! But it may be asked: Is it
likely that the prophet had reference to so long a period !
of time, as 1800 years? You will remember, however, j
that this- is the. language of God himself; and 1800 years '
with him would be but a very short space of time, ac- j
cording to the testimony of Peter* I might also ask: Is j
it likely, that the prophet would refer to the destruction
of Jerusalem, which transpired between forty and fifty j
years from the time John the Baptist made his appear- <
ance, which would be considered by us, a long period of <
time? We could thus, with the consistency of Univer-
aalism, infer that “ the great and dreadful day of the
Lord ” could not be so far ofl£ as the destruction of Jen*-
salem, and hence must mean the day when Christ was j
crucified! I
But to return again to the text. The Revelator is
Speaking of opening the seven seals, and Universalists
are compelled to admit, themselves being judges, that
this great day of wrath is to take place in eternity: for
just before the angel commenced opening the seals,
John declares that he heard “ every creature, which is
-in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and
such ad are in the sea, and all that are in them, say­
ing, blessing, and honor, and glory, and power, be unto
him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb
tiO sC T fr ami ever;” [Rev* 5. v\
AGAINST i t s e l f . 2 »
that Universalists quote this very text, and apply it to
the resurrection state! Then immediately after, comes
this «great day of his wrath f* and immediately follow­
ing this, John sees “ a great multitude, which no man
could number; of all nations, and kindreds, and people,
and tongues,” which Universalists (as I have before
shown) also apply to the resurrection state! Hence, if
the commencement and the conclusion are in eternity, as
Universalists contend, I would like to know how they
would work it to get the middle in time!
0 9 “And many of them that sleep in the dust of the
earth shall aw7
ake, some to everlasting life, and
some to shame, and everlasting contempt: and they that
be wise, shall shine as the brightness of the firmament;
and they that turn many to righteousness, as the stars
forever and ever.” [Dan. 12.2, 3.]
Remarks; Universalists have three ways of disposing,
or trying to dispose of this text We expect to look
them ail in the face!
1. It is contended that this language has reference to
the destruction of Jerusalem, from the first verse in the
chapter: “ And there shall be a time of trouble, such as
never was, since there was a nation, even to that same
time.” In connection with this, is quoted the language
of the Saviour, with reference to the destruction of Je­
rusalem, and the scattering of the Jews, as we freely ad­
mit. “ For there shall be great tribulation such as was
not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor
never shall be.” [Math. 24. 41.] Universalists assert,
that these two texts are parallel, and refer to the same
events. We deny it, and call for proof. But we may
wait till doom’s day, and no proof in favor of that posi­
tion can be given! The Pro and Con of Universalism
contends, that the tribulation, spoken of in the 24th of
Matthew, was national, and not individual. (Page 158.)
This is true. TAen, was the greatest national tribulation
that the history of time records; and as the Saviour here
testifies, the greatest calamity of a national tkuaRtet
SO
T UNIVERSALIS*!
that shall ever be! Universalists are continually putting *
down: * NO, NOR EVER SHALL BE,” in large cap* r
tals; just as though it were in their favor. But will they n
be so good as to inform us, what they mean by the won!
“ever ?” You don’t mean eternally, gentlemen, do you! +
No; for then those who went 4
4into everlasting punish- r
ment,” would hardly get out in time for your universal ^
salvation! Yon mean simply a limited duration. Very ,s
seod; then we can understand the text:4
4For there shall “
be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning ^
of the world to this time, no, nor shall not be for a limit- ^
•d duration of time1
1
” This would rather go to favor the ~
Idea, that there would be a greater tribulation, after that ^
limited duration came to an end!
But Daniel speaks of an individual tribulation,—the w
greatest that ever was, or that ever would be, which was e
vividly portrayed by the Revelator, in the last text ex­
amined ; when men should 4
4call for the rocks and moun­
tains to fall on them, and hide them from the face of him
that sitteth upon the throne, and from the wrath of the
L am b” * e
2. The next effort at evasion, is upon the phrase: g
4
4M any ofthem*9 This, however, is but a recent quibble, g
and it is used to pretty good advantage, by those who e
understand it.
They contend that this text cannot refer to the gen- a
oral resurrection, from the fact that44m any o f them” ~
does not signify all o f them, which would certainly be '
the case, if it had reference to the general resurrection. ’
They ask the question: “ Suppose I should say: Many
o f them that were in the house, came out; would it not
follow conclusively, that some that were in, did not come
out?” I answer yes. Then how can you make the text
in Daniel refer to the general resurrection? I will show
you. Some that were sleeping in the dust of the earth,
when Daniel penned this prediction, arose from the dead
at the resurrection of Christ. 4
4And the graves were
opened,and many bodies of the saints whic h «nose,
And came out of the graves, after his resurrection, and
«nr
it
AGAINST IT S E L F . m -
w ent into the holy city, and appeared unto many.”«—
[M ath. 27. 52, 53.] Now who would suppose that those
saints again died, and went back into their graves? i
do not; ior “ it is appointed unto men once to die,” and
that would be dying twice! The qnly reasonable, and
consistent view of the subject is, that those saints went
with Christ, when he ascended to heaven; and he shall
again return with them; for he “ shall so come, in like
m a n n e r and we have the most positive testimony, that
lie shall come “ with ten thousand of his saints” [Jude
15.] This being true: Daniel could with all propriety
declare; “many of them that sleep in the dust of the
earth shall awake, [at the general resurrection,—not aU
o f them, for some are to awake before that time, at the
resurrection of Christ: but all that remain, will come
forth, at the resurrection of the just, and of the unjust,]
some to everlasting life, and some to shams and stwr-
lasting contempt.
3. The last objection is predicated upon verse 7.—,
M
When he shall have accomplished to scatter the power
of the holy people, all these things shall be finished.”—
But this kills Universalism dead, as far as this text is
concerned. In the first place, the Jews were not seat«
tered, till after Jerusalem was destroyed; and hence, this
resurrection, which was to take place after the scattering
of the Jews was accomplished, must also be after the
destruction of Jerusalem, which condemns Universalism
out of its own mouth! But in the second place: this very
text places the matter still in the future. Is the scat­
tering of the Jews yet accomplished^ Not yet; neither
will it be, until they cease to be scattered, and are gath­
ered back to their own land. Hence, by the argument
brought to sustain the opposite, we have proved the res»
orrection of Dan. 12. 2. to be yet future! But there is
one other argument upon this subject, which corrobo­
rates the above position, and shows that I have not at
all misunderstood the prophet. Universalists them­
selves do not contend for a literal resurrection, at the
iownfail o fJerusalem, nor at any subsequent
UNIVERSALISM
the present time; and hence, they are compelled to ad­
mit, that this resurrection is still future; for the last
verse proves it to be literal. The angeLsays to Daniel:
4
4But go thou thy way, till the end be, for thou shati
rest, AND STAND IN THY LOT at the end of the
days!” |T erse 13.] #Thus, Daniel himself, is to have
part in this resurrection, of which he speaks! This is
something, I reckon, Universalists have never thought
o£ If they have, they have been exceedingly cautious
to keep it to themselves!
O O 64Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in
the which all that are in the graves, shall hear
his voice, and shall come forth; they that have done
good, to the resurrection of life; and they that have
done evil, to the resurrection of damnation.” [John 5»
28, 29.]
Remarks: This text would need no remarks, were it
not that the pestilential, and withering hand of sophistry
has been laid upon it, until in the minds of many, its
true force has become obscured. Here, as in other cases,
Universalists raise a tremendous hue and cry about Jig-
ure!figure! figure! But suppose the text nad happen­
ed to read a Tittle differently: 4
4
All that are in the graves,
shall hear his voice, and shall come forth; they that
have done evil to the resurrection of life, as well as
those that have done good;” then it would be literal of
course: yes verily, every word of it: no mistake about
it;—the same resurrection precisely, of which Paul
speaks in the 15th of 1st Cor. But why would it be lit­
eral then, my dear sir, any more than it is now? O be­
cause, if it be taken literal the way it is now, it would
condemn our doctrine eternally, and we could not help
ourselves; and hence it must certainly be figurative:—
but if it read the other way, it would then have to be
understood literally without doubt; for it would thus
prove our doctrine* true, and every thing in the bible,
that appears to squint in favor of our doctrine, you know
must be literal of course, let the cvtcYXuv*\a.uee* he what
they m ay!I This reveals the true secret oi wYisk»
AGAINST IT S E L F ,
matter, and if Universalisé would unbosom their hearts
upon this subject, they would confess it!
It is known to all men, that every text which can be
construed so as to appear, in the least degree, to favor
Universalism if taken literally, must be understood in
this sense: but when they happen to light upon one of
those numerous texts of scripture,which most pointedly,
and unequivocally teach a future retribution, and a day
of judgment beyond the résurrection; it is immediately
converted into a beautiful cluster of Eastern metaphors
—the devil, a figure of speech,—and heU, a bug-bear ot
heathen mythology, and Jewish superstition! Upon
this principle could they dispose of the whole bible; and
it would have been utterly impossible for Christ to have
taught the doctrine of future and eternal punishment,
had he believed it ever so much, and had he brought in­
to requisition infinite wisdom to inculcate the doctrine;
and evenhad he exhausted the vocabulary ofheaven,and
the encyclopedia of man, in order to muster language
and terms, of sufficient force, to express the sentiment:
still it could all be set aside at a single sweep, by one of
our modem, intellectual giants:—let him but once pass
his magic wand across the book, and figure o ffigurea,
Mays the preacher, all is figure!!! Neither is this alt*
When they once get it converted intoa figure; they then
assume an unbounded license, of making it a figure of
any thing they can think of, so it does not cross the
track of Universalism! Like the lump of clay in the
hands of the potter,—he can shape it to his own liking;
—so is a text of scripture in the handsof these spiritual
potters*.—when completely ground in the mill of bigo­
try,—and moistened with vain philosophy; it is then
dashed upon the wheel of sophistry, and turned into as
many rhetorical figures as there are spokes in a wagon
wheel! They disregard all rules of interpretation ex­
cept one, and that is: Universalism must be sustained at'
ailhazards, let come what will; if the bible has to*be cut'
up into inch pieces to do it!
How,I wouldlike to know,would U
m U N I V ER B A LISM
take to write out the above proof-text, so as to express
the orthodox faith? They could not do it to save their
souls; for if it can be disposed of, as it now is, no man
on earth can word it, so as to stand the ordeal of Univer»
salism. We are told that this text relates to the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem, and that resurrection signifies convex
aion. But it is a little strange that men should come
forth from their graves of sin, or be converted to damna­
tion: and it is also a little mysterious, that others who
were raised to life, had done good in their graves of sin!
But Universalism can account for all mysteries, by that
most notorious and accommodating science:-—
-Jigurd-
ogy! As the text is all figurative, let us read it in this
way. 4
6Marvel not at this; for the hour is coming in
the which all that are in their figurative graves, shall
hear the figurative voice of the figurative Son of God,
and shall figuratively come forth; they that have dons
good, to the figurative resurrection of figurative life;
and they that have done.evil, to the figurative resurrec­
tion of figurative damnation!” This gives us figures in
abundance!
But I deny that the resurrection here is conversion.
The Corinthians, to whom Paul wrote, believed in con­
version, yet the apostle asks: 4
4Now if Christ be preach»
ed that he rose from the dead; how say some among
you, that there is no resurrection of the dead!” [1 Cor.
15« 12.1 Hence« conversion is no resurrection! But it
is said by the great Pro and Con, that it cannot be under­
stood literally, from the fact that all men have done good
as well as evil; and hence, every man would be raised
both to life and damnation! [Page 222.] Very shrewd
and cunning this, indeed! But the Pro and Con, never
once thought, that it involved him in the same difficulty
precisely, that it did us! Their coming forth at the de­
struction of Jerusalem from their44graves of superstition
and ignorance,” presents just as much of an absurdity,
apd would beit^eand damnation both, to each individual,
just as much as though it referred to the general resur-
m d y*tour parWinAPro anACoix wc*.sac
V.
si
»
ti
I*
a
iii
k
k
¡1
l<
!
\
A G A IN S T IT S E L F .
it! The Lord has, however, taught Universalists a les­
son in the prophet Ezekiel, which would forever shut
their mouths about all such objections, if they would only
put themselves to the trouble of learning it. 4
4When I
shall say to the righteous, that he shall surely live; if he
trust to his own righteousness, and commit iniquity, a l l
his righteousness s h a l l n o t b e r e m e m b e r e d ; but for his
iniquity that he hath commited, he shall die for it. Again«
when I shall say unto the wicked: thou shaft surely die:
if he turn from his sin, and do that which is lawful and
right,—he shall surely live; he shall not die. None o*
HIS SINS----SHALL BE MENTIONED UNTO HIM! he hath d 09%S
that which is lawful and rig h t; he shall surely live.”
[Ezek. 33. 13-16.] This is as plain as though the Lord
had designed it especially to answer this objection.
Suppose a man has lived a righteous life, till he is forty
years old, and after this practices iniquity for one year,
and then dies in his sins;—this man will come forth 4
4to
jthe resurrection of damnation” But did not the man
do good 7 Yes: but Jehovah himself decides, that4
4alt
his righteousness shall not be remembered;” hence it is
forgotten, and the same precisely as though it had never
been performed! Again: suppose another case; a man
lives till he is forty years old in the practice of wicked*
ness: he then turns from his sins, and does that which is
lawful and right,—God foigives him, and he falls asleep
in Jesus. Such an one will come forth4
4to the resurrec­
tion o f W e” But, say you, this man did evil forty
years! but stop: the Lord declares, that4
4none of his
sins shall be mentioned unto him, he hath done [good,]
that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live”—
he shall surely come forth to the resurrection of life!
Here then we have this objection fairly met, and dis­
posed of; and a number of other objections, of a similar
character, are answered by the same aigument.
But I am asked: What is to be done with infants, if
this refers to the general resurrection? They have done
neithergood nor evil! As 1am only part ofa
shallhave toanswer this question by askrng two V
«M UNI VERBALISM
What is to be done with infants in the general resurrec­
tion, according to the testimony of Paul? for he refers to
that event, as Universalists admit, when he speaks of the
« resurrection ofthe dead, both of theju st and of the un­
ju s t” and infants are never spoken of in the scriptures
under either of these two heads! 2. What is to be done la
with infants, according to 1 Cor. 15. 23? for they are not |J
men, and the apostle, speaking of the general reSurrec- !:
tion, says: “ Every man in his own order?” And we
might also ask these erudite expositors, what will be done
with toomm ? The fact of Christ and his apostles, in J
speaking of the general resurrection, not mentioning in- 1
fants, is no reason why they were not included: neither
is the fact of their not being mentioned, any reason in
such cases, that the general resurrection was not referred
to. It was an admitted fact on all hands, that those who
died in infancy, were safe; and that their resurrection
would be to the enjoyment of eternal life. Hence, nei- I
ther Christ, nor his apostles, as a general thing, discuss- I
ed that subject. Had they been endeavoring to teach |
that the wicked would be raised holy and happy, they
would no doubt have frequently talked of the resurrec­
tion ofinfants, by way of comparison. Their object, as
we have seen, in all their teachings, was to inculcate the
doctrine, that men would be raised according to the char­
acters they formed in this life; and this they urged as a
motive to obedience. Hence the propriety of not bring­
ing infants into the question. But if all this will not
satisfy Universalists concerning this objection; we have
one thing more that wilL We read in the 25th of Mat­
thew, that when Christ shall come in the glory of his
Father, he shall separate the righteous from the wickedl
This says nothing about infants, for they are neither
rigktoousxior wicked: and more than that,all on one hand,
had fed the hungry, and clothed the naked; whilst those
on the other, had neglected it to their condemnation,
neither of which can oe said concerning infants. But
ah, say you, this refers to the destruction of Jerusalem,
tuids^aiSea the separation of the
A G A IN S T IT S E L F ,
the wicked Jews! Well, suppose we should admit it*
(which we do not,) still it does not help the matter; for
there were infants at that siege, both with die righteous
disciples and the wicked Jews: and thus we see, accord­
ing to your own logic, that infants may be involved in a
matter of a general character, whilst none are mentioned
except those who have done either good or evil!.Again,
it is said that the word“ graves” is to be understood fig­
uratively; and as a parallel, they quote Ezek. 37. 12, 13.
tt Therefore prophesy and say unto them, thus saith the
Lord God: behold O my people, I will open your graves,
and bring you into the land of Israel, and ye shall know
that I am the Lord, when I have opened your graves, O
my people, and brought you up out of your graves” But
this does nothing for the cause of Universalism. The
cases are not parallel, neither is the language* In Eze­
kiel it is “ your g r a v e s in the possessive case, four times
in succession; but in John it is “ the graves” which Ì
affirm is never once used figuratively, in the whole bible!
This phrase occurs eight times, and in every instance, it
signifies the literal habitation of the dead! I shall quote
one text as a sample of all the rest. “ Behold the vail of
the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bot­
tom, and the earth did quake, and the rocss rent; and
the graves were opened, and many bodies of the saints
which slept, arose, and came out o f the graves, [not their
graves,] after his resurrection, and went into the holy
city, and appeared unto many.5
5 [Math. -27. 51-53.]—
This demonstrates the meaning of u the graves5
5 to be
literal. Universalists sometimes take advantage of the
ignorant, (or else their own ignorance takes advantage
of them,) by asserting that the word rendered graves^ m
John 5. 28, is not the same in the Greek, as commonly
signifies the literal habitation of the dèad. Such was
the ground taken by Mr. Flanders. But any one, with
the slightest knowledge of the Greek language, can ex­
pose its fallacy. The word is nemeioni and the same, I
affirm, that is generally employed in the New TeaXas*
went, to express the literal habitation xWtafeàN few
UNI VERS AL ISM
few examples shall be given. 4
4Jesus therefore again,
groaning in himself, cometh to the (nemeion) grave: it
was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.” [John 11. 38.]—
4
4
And when he was come to the other side, into the
country of the Gergesenes, there met him two, possessed
with devils, coming out of the (nemeion) tom b” [Math.
8. 28.] 4
4And he brought fine linen, and took him down,
and wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a (nemeion)
sepulchre, which was hewn out of a rock.” [Mark 15.
46.] 4
4Wo unto you scribes and pharisees, hypocrites;
because ye build the tombs of the prophets, and garnish
the (nemeia) sepulchres of the righteous.’9[Math. 23. 29.]
So much for that objection. But the circumstances ofthe
case, and the context, prove that the Saviour designed
being understood literally. In this connection he intro­
duces three different things, which follow each other in
regular succession; beginning at the least, and ending
with the greatest.
Reader, you will see the force of this, if you reflect,
that Christ is about to give them the strongest reasons
in his possession, to induce the people to befieve on him
as the Messiah. We shall examine these items in order.
1. 4
4Verily, verily, I say unto you: he that heareth my
word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting
Kfe, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed
from death unto life ” [Verse 24.] Let us stop here a
minute, and see what tne Saviour designed to teach.—
Universalists tell us that he spake of the conversion of
sinners to Christianity. We say so too. Again they
tell us, that4
4everlasting life” signifies the present enjoy«
ment of the Christian, and does not refer to the future
state. We say that it does not mean the present enjoy­
ment of the Christian; and that in every instance, where
ft occurs in the New Testament, it has reference to the
immortal stale of existence! Do you understand that!!
Yes, say you, but I do not believe it; for how could
Christ say, that the believer hath everlasting life! and
hpassed from death unto life, if it has reference to the
A tom state? This is a fair c^iesUot^sfiaaW V
**
A G A IN ST IT S E L F .
fcirlyanswered! What says the apostle John? “ He
that hath the Son, hath life.” [1 Jo. 5. 12»] According
to, this the believer hath the Son, just as he hath life.—
Let us now inquire how he hath the Son? Not in per­
son, or infact, surely; for in this sense he is only in the
realms of glory above! But the apostle Paul decides the
point:4
4That Christ may dwell in your hearts by f a it h .”
[Eph. 3.17.] “ Which is Christ in you the h o p e ofglo­
ry.” [Col. 1. 27»] Thus it is, that the believer hath the
£k>n, by f a it h and h o p e , and not in fact: and thus it is
that the believer h a t h everlasting life,or is passed from
death unto life; not in fact, but by f a it h and h o p e !—
This one aigument levels Universalism to the dust, and
its advocates will feel the loss they have Sustained, by
being thus driven from their most successful hiding place!
It is known to all, that whenever one of those numerous
texts are quoted, which declare eternal or everlasting
life to be conditional, Universalists are eternally dodging
behind this text in the 5th of John. But as they are
now routed from that retreat, they stand exposed in open
field, with the artillery of fo rty texts of scripture level­
led against them, which most pointedly teach that eter­
nal and everlasting life depends upon the character and
conduct of men in this present state of being! This
certainly is disposing of Universalism by the wholesale!
2. But let us now see what is the next greatest thing,
the Saviour introduces, after the conversion ofsinners to
Christianity. 4
4Verily, verily, I say unto you: the hour
is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice
of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live.” [Verse
25.] The hour had already come, when some who were
dead, heard the voice ofChrist and lived. Thus we read:
“And he came and touched the bier; and they that bare
him stood still. And he said: young man I say unto
thee, arise! and he that was dead, sat up, and began to
speak.” [Luke 7.14,15.] This was a greater work than
for a man to believe on Christ. 3. out now for the
greatest of aJJ. uMarvel not at this: IV
*>
et either o f those works r;iucn i tave wumfc&v
UNI VERBALISM
I am now going to teH you something that I wiH do, which fc
is far greater than the conversion of a sinner; or bringing ■
a dead man to life!] for the hour is coming, in the which
a l l t h a t a r e iM t h e g r a v e s shall hear his voice, and I
•hall come forth.” Had a Universalist been there, he •
would have said, astonishing! that is the very thing yoa e
told us a while ago!! wYes, verily, verily, instead of the i
Ijord telling them any thing new, he was telling them 5
exactly the same thing over and over! tt Verily, verily, C
I say unto you, that the hour is coming when sinners 1
shall be converted!” But I will tell you something
greater than this. Well, what is it? « Verily, verily, I =
say unto you, the hour is coming when sinners shall be i
converted!!” But I will tell you something far greater i
still. What: Verily, verily, I say unto you, that the 3
hour is coming in the which a whole lot of sinners shall 1
be converted!!!” This is positively the very doctrine 1
Universalism makes Christ to teach! 1
But finally, upon this subject we remark: that the 1
word resurrection, which occurs twice in this text, is not 1
once used figuratively in the whole bible! It occurs in \
thirty-eight instances, and outof that number thirty-seven \
can have no other than a literal acceptation: and is it j
at all likely, that this individual case, is to be understood
in a figurative sense, and that too, for no other reason
than because it annihilates Universalism, if taken literal­
ly! Now since Universalists admit that this word is to
be understood literally, in nearly every text where it
Occurs, they are not going to have the privilege ofmaking
it figurative in this single case, unless they give us better
evidence than their own dogmatical ipsi-dixit. Let
them adduce an example where the word resurrection is
used in an acknowledged figurative sense, or they need
never expect to make any reflecting mind believe that
this solitary text is an exception to the whole bible!!—
Every objection is now fairly met’
; and here it stands un­
scathed, in all its invulnerable and invincible strength:
*A11 that are in the graves shall hear his voice, and shall
«am* forth: they that have done good to ^resurrection
AGAINST ITSELF. 4M
iff'life; and- they that hare dene evil to the resurrection
of dam nation” 0t r Let this be disposed of, if it can 1!
Qyg “ He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my
words, hath one that judgeth Him: the word that
I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last d a y”
[John 12.48.]_
Remarks: This is too plain to need comment. It tells
exactly when the day of judgment shall take place;—
“ the loot day!” But it may be asked: when is “ the
last day ?” *Universalists themselves shall answer, by
O us one of their strongest proof-texts: “ This is
tther’s will that hath sent me, that of all which he
bath given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it
up at the last d a y ” [John 6. 39.] This text Univer­
salists apply to the resurrection; and* we will give them
credit for being right once. Not only do they admit, that
“the last day” is to be the day of the resurrection; but
we have the same admission from a great deal higher
source! “ Jesus saith unto her: thy brother shall rise
again. Martha saith unto him: I know that he shall rise
again, in the r e s u r r e c t io n at the l a s t d a y ” [John 11. 23,
24.] How plain, how positive, and how unambiguous js
the testimony of the bible in favor of the day of judg­
ment, at the resurrection of the dead? It being expressed
in so many places, and in so many, yet unequivocal
ways, one would think the man almost insane, who
would call the doctrine in question!
25.T he so u n d in g ov t h e s e v e n t h , or l a s t t r u m p -
Remarks: This argument, which is contained'in the
tenth and eleventh chapters of Revelations, is one of
great importance, and shall close the present chapter.
In Rev. 10. 6. the angel who was to sound the seventh,
or last trump, takes nis stand, lifts his hand to heaven,
and swears by him that liveth forever and ever, “ that
there should be time no longer” This is the first matter
o f importance, vrhich is to occur at the
U N IV B R S A L I8M
seventh trump: and Universalists will hardly assert, tint
this event has yet transpired. Again: “ But in the days
of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to
sound, the mystery of God should befinished^ as he hath
declared to his servants the prophets? [Verse 7.] Thus, we
are informed, that the prophesies are to be fulfilled, when 4
the seventh trumpet shall sound; or the mystery of God,
which he hath declared to the prophets, shall be finished!
This, Universalists admit to be still future: for they con­
tend that the prophets predicted a universal salvation;
and they certainly cannot think, that such predictions
are yet fulfilled! Hence we are still agreed, that the .
sounding of the last trump is yet future. Again: “And I
the seventh angel sounded, and there were great voices
in heaven, saying the kingdoms of this world, are become ,
the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ." [Ib, 11. j
15.1 Here too Universalists will agree with us, that this
will not take place, till Christ subdues all things unto
himself, which will be at the resurrection. Again, they j
continue: “ We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty,
which art, and wast,and art to come; because thou hast
taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned.” This
cannot be, as Universalists admit, until Cnrist delivers
up the kingdom to God the Father, which Paul declares
to be at the resurrection of the dead! In the next verse
we read: “And the nations were angry, and thy wrath
is come, and the time of the dead that they should be
ju d g e d .” But this is not all: “And that thou shouldest
give reward to thy servants the prophets, and to the
saints, and them that fear thy name small and great;”
which cannot be done till the prophets are raised from
the deadt Neither is this all: “And [that thou] shouldst
destroy them that corrupt the earth? These events are
all to take place at the sounding of the last trump: and
we not only have the most indubitable evidence, from the
items here enumerated, that they all relate to the resur­
rection of the dead; but the apostle Paul does most posi­
tively declare, that “ the dead shall be raised” at the
sound o f the “ last trum p? \ \ Cot. \b . W
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 233
controvertibly, that then, and there, the dead shall be
judged: that then and there, the ancient prophets, as
well as the saints of all ages, and those that fear the
came of God, both small and great shall be rewarded;
and that then and there the wicked who have corrupted
the earth, shall be destroyed, and banished into everlast­
ing darkness, from the presence of God, and the glory
ofhis power!
“ The trumpet, the trumpet, the dead have all heard;
Lo! the depths of the stone-covered charnals are stir’d:
From the sea, from the' earth, from the south, from the
north,
All the vast^generations of man ard come forth.
The judgment, the judgment, the thrones are all set;
Where the Lamb, and the bright crowned elders are met:
Where all flesh, is at once in the sight of the Lord;
And the doom of eternity, hangs on his word.
0 mercy, O mercy, look down from above,
Great Creator, on us, thy dear children of love:
When beneath, to their darkness, the wicked are driven,
May our justified souls find a welcome in heaven!9
’
20
CHAPTER IV.
1
TWENTY-FIVE DISTINCT ARGUMENTS, IN PROOF OFTHE !
CONDITIONALITY OF THE FUTURE LIFE!
«L E T HE DIE THE DEATH OF THE RIGHTEOUB, AND LET MY LAST
END BE LIKE HIS.”—Num. 83. 10.
| 4
4Wherefore the rather, brethren, give all diligence,
• to make your calling and election sure, for if ye do
these things ye shall never fall; for so an entrance
shall be ministered unto you abundantly, into the ever-
lasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.” 1
[2 Pet. 1. 10, 11.] 1
Remarks: Universalists try to evade this text, by con­
tending that this 4
4everlasting kingdom,” signifies the
kingdom ofgrace here on earth. But this cannot be the
case, for this substantial reason: those brethren, address­
ed by the apostle Peter, were already in the kingdom of
grace, and in the enjoyment ofthe present salvation from
sin! If this can be proved, then,4
4the everlasting king- 1
dom” is demonstrated to be the kingdom of glory!
Now for the proof. 4
4Seeing ye have purified your souls
in obeying the truth:—being born again.” [1 ret. 1. 22,
23.] 4
4Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual
house, a holy priesthood;—but ye are a chosen genera-
tioa9 a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar (
people; that ye should show foxXh vhe pxn\*sa oil
AGAINST ITSELF. 235
who hath called you out ofdarkness^ into his marvelous
light: which in time past were not a people, but now are
the people of God ; which had not obtained mercy, but
now have obtained m ercy” [lb* 2. 5, 9, 10.] 4
4For ye
were as sheep going astray, but are now returned to the
Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.” Tib. 25.] And in
the same chapter, from which this proof-text is taken, the
apostle gives them to understand, that they 4
4had been
purged from their old sins.” (Verse 9.)
From this testimony, it is manifest that those brethren,
having been purified, purged from their old sins,—and
called out of darkness into his marvellous light, were
then already in the kingdom of grace, and it is just as
manifest, that the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and
Saviour, Jesus Christ, into which they had to enter by
doing 4
4these things,” was the kingdom of celestial glo-
2 ! But it may be objected, that Uhrist is to deliver up
e kingdom to God the Father. But this is not to be done
until after the resurrection, and until after the saints are
admitted into it: then the kingdom, with all its glorified
citizens, will be delivered up to the Father, when the
Son shall exclaim:44Behold here am I, and the children
which God hath given me.” (Heb. 2. 13.) This argu­
ment cannot be set aside!
O 4
4To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the
tree of life, that is in the midst of the paradise of
G od” (Rev. 2. 7.)
Remarks: This paradise of God cannot refer to any
thing less than the upper world: for Paul speaking of
visions and revelations, says: 441 knew a man in Christ,
about fourteen years ago; whether in the body I cannot
tell, or whether out of the body I cannot tell, God know-
eth: such an one, caught up to the third heaven^—into
paradise” T2 Cor. 12. 2,3.] Before Universalists can
evade the force of this argument, they must produce
positive proof that pa r a d ise , and the third heaven, are
nere, in this World!
m U N 1V ER SA LISM
3 «Therefore we are always confident, knowing that
• whilst we are at home in the bod ^ *
rather to be absent from the body, and to be present
with the Lord: wherefore we l a b o r , that w h e t h e r pre­
s e n t , or a b s e n t we may be a c c e p t e d o f h im .” —[ 2 Cor.
5. 6, 8,9.1
Remarks: From this text we discover, that the apos­
tle considered it necessary to la b o r , in order to be ac­
cepted of Christ; whether present in the body, or absent
from it. This being present with Christ and being absent
from the body, the apostle decides in another place, to be
the separation of the soul from the body of f l e s h , at
death. « Christ shall be magnified in my body whether
it be by l if e o r d e a t h : for to me to live is Christ, and to
die is gain;—for I am in a strait betwixt two, having a
desire to d e p a r t and to b e w it h C h r is t , which is far bet­
ter: nevertheless, to abide in the f l e s h , is more needful
for you.” (Ph. 1. 20-24.) If this does not prove, that
men must l a b o r in this life, in order to be accepted of
Christ, when death separates the spirit from the body,
then, I know not the meaning of language!
A « If so b e that we s u f f e r w it h h im , we shall also be
g l o r if ie d t o g e t h e r .” (Rom. 8. 17.) * For our
light affliction, which is but for a moment, w o r k e t h fo r
us a far more exceeding, and eternal weight o fglory?
[2 Cor. 4. 17.1
Remarks: These texts teach positively, that suffering
persecution for the sake of Christ was necessary, in or­
der to be glorified with Atm, and enjoy that far more ex­
ceeding and eternal weight ofglory ! This cannot be
confined to this world; for Christ was not glorified till
he ascended to the right hand of God* We read con­
cerning him, whilst' here on earth: «The Holy Ghost
was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified?
[John 7. 39.J And as the Holy Ghost was poured out
on the day of pentecost, when Christ was coroneted
king in Zion; it follows, that then. washe drifted:* as
from the Lord.—We are confident
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . t t t
Peter testified in the next discourse: 4
4The God of Abr*»
ham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob; the God of our fathers
hath glorified his Son Jesus.” [Acts 3. 13.] From this
it is established, that Christ was glorified in heaven; and
our glorification with him, which the apostle declares to
be conditional, must incontrovertibly refer to the im­
mortal state, when the dead saints shall “ b e r a is e d in
g l o r y !”
K 4
4They returned again to Lystra, and to Iconhun,
and to Antioch, confirming thé souls of the disciples,
and exhorting them to continue in the feith; and that we
must through much tribulation, enter into the kingdom
of God.” [Acts 14. 22.]
Remarks: The kingdom of God here referred to, can­
not mean the kingdom of grace here on earth; for those
disciples who were 4
4in the faith,” were, as a matter of
course, then in the present kingdom of grace. But we*
read in Revelations, concerning that innumerable multi­
tude, (which Universalists admit to be in heaven, as I
have proved in another place,) 4
4These are they which
came out of great foundation, and have washed their
robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.”
[Rev. 7. 14.] Thus: in taking the Universalist applica­
tion of this text, it proves that the kingdom of God, into
which the disciples were to enter through much tribu­
lation, is the kingdom of ultimate glory! We have a
number of other texts, confirming this position. Paul,
although in the present kingdom of grâce,1
expresses
himself thus: 4
4The Lord shall deliver me from every
evil work, and will preserve me unto his heavenly king­
dom;” [2 Tim. 4.18,] and he also informs the saints of
Thessalbnica, that if they endured their persecutions
with patience, they would 4
4be counted worthy of the
kingdom of God,” for which they suffered.: [2 Thess. 1.
5.] The unprejudiced must discover, from this testimo­
ny, not only that there is a kingdom of god,'beyond this
life; but also, that an entrance into it, defends
oarfaithfulness here in time! '
£38 U N IV ERSA LISM
6 “ Rejoice and be exceeding glad; for great is yoor
• reward in heaven” [Math. 5. 12.]
' Remarks: Universalists contend, that the righteous,
as well as the wicked, get a full reward for all their ac­
tions, in this life. But the Saviour informs us, that those
who suffer persecutions for his sake, shall be rewarded
in heaven, as they fail of receiving any thing like an
adequate reward here in the present state of being.
The only way Universalists have ever attempted to get
over this testimony, is by denying that heaven refers to
the realms of glory. But I here state, once for all, that
the word heaven has no other meaning in the New
Testament than the world of celestial bliss. Let them
convict me of error if they can. If we wish to know
the Saviour’s meaning of the word heaven, we should
examine his use of that word, in the same connection,—
• the sermon on the mount: “ Let your light so shine
before men, that they may see your good works, and
glorify your Father which is in heaven.” C
Verse 16.)
“ But I say unto you, swear not at all, neither t>yheaven,
for it is God’s throne, nor by the earth, for it is his
footstool.” (Ib. 34.) “ Our Father who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name; thy kingdom come, thy will be
done in earth as it is in heaven.” (Math. 6. 9, 10.)
These examples show the meaning of tne word heaven,
to be the glorious presence of God. And as certain as
the Saviour’s words are true, the wicked will never rise
to that blissful station!
W “ Who will render to every man according to his
■ • deeds; to them who by patient continuance in well
doing, seek for g l o r t , and h o n o r , and im m o r t a l it y ,—
e t e r n a l l u x .” (Rom. 2. 6, 7.)
Remarks: This text of itself, is a complete refutation
of Universalism. G l o r y , h o n o r , ana im m o r ta l ity ,
are conditional, as the apostle here declares; and are
suspended upon a patient continuance in well doing.—
These exalted blessings ate not to V» enjoyed in this
Jife, bat belong to the future state, as ran taxnot*
AGAINST IT SE L F. urn
strate from several considerations. L Those brethren,
whom the apostle addressed, were then in the full en­
joyment of the loftiest blessings and privileges, of a spir­
itual character, that human beings can enjoy in this
mortal state: and yet they were seeking for glory, and
honor, and immortality! No consistent man will seek for
that which lie already has. Hence this g lo r y , h o n o r ,
and im m o r t a l it y cannot signify any blessing to be en­
joyed in this life! 2. Paul testifies in 1. Cor. 15th chap,
that these distinguished blessings, belong to the r e s u r ­
r e c t io n s t a t e , and are not to be enjoyed this side of
the grave. Let this be remembered! 3. D. Skinner,
in his debate with A. Campbell, letter 17, paragraph 21,
asserts: that aphtharsia, the word rendered immortality
in the above text, signifies endless bliss, and is never used
in a limited sense, or applied to a finite object. Uni-
versalists are bound to admit this testimony, as D. Skin­
ner w is their champion in that discussion. But we
have even a greater commentator than D. Skinner, tes­
tifying that this glory, honor and immortality, for which
Christians are to seek, are not to be enjoyed in this low­
er world. 4
4If ve b»
3 risen with Christ, seek those things
which are A B O V E where Christ sitteth on the right
hand of God. Set your aliections on things a b o v e and not
on things on the e a r t h .” (Col. 3. 1, 2.) This settles the
point, that immortality, as well as glory and honor, is in
the eternal world; and consequently the 4
4in d ig n a t io n ,
and w r a t h , t r ib u l a t io n , and a n g u ish ,” (verses 8, 9,) plac­
ed in antithesis to them, are also to be awarded in the
future state!
O 4
4For ye had compassion on me in my bonds, and
took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing
in yourselves, that ye have in h e a v e n a better and an en­
during s u b s t a n c e : cast not away t h e r e f o r e your confi­
dence, which hath great r e c o m p e n c e o f REWARD.”
(Heb. 10. 34, 35.)
Remarks: This4
4recompence ofreward,” or this4
4bet­
ter and enduring substanceis here
U N IV E R S A L I S M
to b e 4
4in h e a v e n ;” and nono will obtain it till the re*
urrection; for the Lord declares:4
4Thou shalt be recom ­
p e n s e d at the resurrection of the j u s t . " [Luke 14. 14.]
9 1
6And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me,
• write: Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord,
from henceforth; yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest
from their labors; and their works do follow them.”—
[Rev. 14. 13.1
Remarks: Universalists have never, as far as 1 know,
given this text any other signification than the literal
death ofthe saints. The Pro and Con, on page 345, was
compelled to admit this to be its meaning! Hence it
cannot*be construed, with the least shade of plausibil­
ity, so as to agree with their theory. For the fact being
thus emphatically stated, that those who die in the Lord
are blessed, proves just as emphatically that those who
die out of the Lord, or die in their sins, are cursed! The
fact of those, who die in the Lord, resting from their la­
bor proves the opposite: that those who die out of the
Lord, will be among the number who4
4shall have no rest,
day nor night.” And as the Pro and Con, was compell­
ed to admit that the works of men follow them into eter­
nity, it is established incontrovertibly, that the righteous
will be rewarded in eternity for their works in this life;
whilst it is just as evident, that the wicked will be re­
warded fortheir wicked deeds, in the future world, which
the scriptures most distinctly affirm to be, 4
4an everlas­
ting destruction from the presence of the Lord!”
1 O UFor * am now ready t0 °ffered>and ^ e time
of my departure is at hand: I have fought a
good fight: I have finished my course, I have kept the
faith: henceforth there is laid up for mea crown of right­
eousness which the Lord the righteous Judge shall give
unto me in that day; and not to me only, but unto all
them also that love his appearing.” [2. Tim 4. 6-8.]
Remarks: In this text the apostle speaks of the crown
A G A I N S T I T S E L F , 241
of righteousness, held in reversion for himself as a re­
ward for running the Christian race faithfully; and this
was not to be conferred in this life, for he was then
ready to be offered, and declares that he hadfinished his
course. But the apostle points out a certain cfav, at
which time not only he, but also all the faithful shad re­
ceive a crown of righteousness, which proves that day
to be still in the future, as there are many righteous men
now, who have never yet received that crown! And
as we have demonstrated in a preceding chapter, that
the appearing of Christ will be at the resurrection; and
as Paul points out that, as the day when he should re­
ceive his crown; it follows conclusively, that the crown
of glory beyond the resurrection, is suspended upon the
condition of holding out faithful to the end.
■| *| 4
4Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth,—
but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven”
[Math. 6. 19, 20.] 4
4Sell that ye have and give alms,
provide yourselves bags which wax not old, a treasure
m the heavens that failed) not, where no thief approach-
eth, neither moth corrupted).” [Luke 12. 33.] 4
4Jesus
said unto him: if thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that
thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have trea­
sure in heaven.” [Math. 19. 21.]
Remarks: These texts unequivocally teach, that heav­
en is conditional, and a treasure in that blissful world,
depends upon our conduct in this life. We also have it
clearly demonstrated, that heaven cannot mean any
state or relation here on earth, as it is spoken of in con­
trast with the earth:—and more than this, we have it
emphatically stated, that to this exalted state of felicity,
4
4no thief approacheth.9
*
1 9 “Follow peace with all men, and holiness^ with-
out which no man shall see the Lord*” [Heb.*
12. 14.]
Remarks: This text is never quoted c o rre c t V; \5tiv
rersaiists. You will find it in their
m U N IV E R S A L IS M
versally, thus: 4
4Without holiness, no man shall see the
Lord.” Quoted in this manner they have no hestitancy
in admitting it; as they teach, that all men will be made
holy in the operation of the resurrection. But when
correctly quoted, it gives the wicked no cloak for their
sins. 4
4
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without
which [i. e. without following peace and holiness:—the
relative which, referring to the preceding sentence, as
its antecedent,] no man shall see the Lord.” This puts
a different face upon the subject entirely: and instead of
teaching what Universalists quote it to prove, it affirms
in the most positive manner, that without/oZZoiring*peace
and holiness, no man shall see the Lord; or enjoy the
Lord, as is frequently the meaning of the word “ see;”
For example:4
4What a man seethe why doth he yet hope
for?” [Rom. 8. 24.] This signifies, as all will admit:
4
4What a man enjoys, why doth he yet hope for.”
Q 4
4Blessed are they that do his commandments,
that they may have right to the tree o f life, and
r enter in through the gates into the city” [Rev. 22.
emarks: 1 have shown in another part of this book,
that Universalists are compelled to admit, as many of
them have already done, that this city refers to the re­
surrection state. (See exam, of Rev. 21. 3, 4. chap. 1.)
This proves that keeping the commandments is essential
to our happiness in the nature life. We have also proved
in this chapter, that the 4
4tree of life” does not belong
to this state of existence, but to the 4
4paradise of God,”—
the immortal world, which proves unanswerably that
the bliss of heaven is conditional!
1 A . u Every man that striveth for the mastery, is
temperate in all things; now they do it to obtain
a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible ” [1 Cor.
9. 25.]
Remarks: Here again we have striving in the holy
ivftfywdinuuMRg inth
e. c
h
r
ia
x
v
w
fc ^
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 243
tain an in c o r r u p t ib l e crown; and the apostle says:44So
run that you may obtain” showing plainly, that this
crown of incorruptibility may be lost, by pursuing an
improper course in running, <jr by not striving lawfully!
The Greek word aphthartos, from which we have in the
common version, the word incorruptible, is also acknow­
ledged by D. Skinner to be endless in its signification,
and that it is never once in the New Testament applied
to any thing of a limited character! (Campbell and
Skinner; let. 17, par. 21.) The reader will remember,
that Universalista are the very men who contend that
incorruptibility belongs to the resurrection state, and
cannot be enjoyed until4
4the dead shall be raised incor­
ruptible, and we shall be changed.” (1 Con 15. 51.)
■
J É
C 4
4Therefore I endure all things.for the elect’s
sake, that they may also obtain the salvation
which is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory” (2 Tim.
2. 10.)
Remarks: This text proves that Paul did not believe
the theory of Universalism; for he considered it neces­
sary to endure all manner of hardships, in proclaiming
the gospel, that the elects (who, of course, were already
in the enjoymentofthe present salvation from sin,) might
obtain a higher salvation, apd be crowned with 4
4eternal
glory” How perverted must be'that man’s understand­
ing, who can believe Universalism, in the face of such
unambiguous testimony as this!
4
4And if children, then heirs; heirs of Ood, and
joint heirs with Jesus C hrist” (Rom. 8. 17.)—
4
4Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person as
Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright ”
(Heb. 12. 16.)
Remarks: 4
4All the jovs of heaven, and of the eternal
world, belong to Jesus Christ; and a man, when he be­
comes a joint heir with Christ, receives a right to etei>
nal felicity, which he did not possess before
o fjo in t heirship existed! And as Y
W
v
t
s
Y
v
y
^
244 U N I VERBA LISM
according to the above text, depends upon becoming
children of God byfaiths it follows hence, that no man
can have a right to the blessings of the future state, until
he voluntarily becomes an heir of God, and a joint heir
with Jesus Christ! Remember also, that there is a dan­
ger of losing our birth right, even after we become heirs,
as was the case with Esau. And as we become heirs
when we are born again, the inheritance for which we
then receive a right, (including as we discover the bliss
of heaven,) must be understood as our birth-right: and
as certain as Paul reasoned correctly, we have it in our
Cower to forfeit that inheritance, or sell our birth-right,
eyond the possibility of recovery, and our doom, Tike
Esau’s, be irrevocably fixed! 4
4You know how that after­
ward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was
rejected; for he found no place of repentance, [or of
changing his father’s sentence,] though he sought it care­
fu lly with tears” (Heb. 12. 17.) Awful declaration!
*| W 4
4To present you holy, and unblamable, and un-
• • reprovable in his sight, if y e c o n t in u e in t h e
f a it h , g r o u n d ed and s e t t l e d , and be not MOVED^AWAT
from the hope of the gospel.” (Col. 1. 22, 23.)
Remarks: Universalism teaches the unconditional
h o l in e s s , as well as happiness of all mankind: that is,
without any condition to be performed in this life. But
the apostle here emphatically asserts, that, in order to be
presented 4
4
holy ” in the sight of God, we must attend to
conditions in this life,—we must4
4c o n t in u e in t h e f a it h ,”
and 4
4be not m oved a w a y from the h o p e o f t h e g o s p e l .”
If Universalists could dispose of this proof, I should de­
spair of attempting to prove that God said: 44Let there
be light, and there was light.”
Q 4
4For bodily exercise profiteth little; but godli-
ness is profitable unto all things, having promise
of the life that now is, and of that which is to come.”
(I Tim. 4 .8.)
AGAIN-ST I T S E L F . 24*
Remarks: This testimony is as plain and as positive,
as language can make it; that the life to come is suspend­
ed upon the practice of g o d lin ess ! It cannot be con­
tended that the life to come in this text signifies the spir­
itual life of the gospel, or the present enjoyment of the
Christian;—for this those brethren were then in posses­
sion of; and hence, the life to come, must have reference
only to the life beyond the resurrection!
44Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord
Jesus Christ, which, according to his abundant
mercy, hath begotten us again to a lively hope, by the
resurrection of Jesus Christ,—to an in h e r it a n c e in c o r ­
r u p t ib l e , and u n d e f il e d , and that f a d e t h n o t a w a y ,
reserved in h e a v e n for you, who are kept by the p o w e r
o f G od, t h r o u g h f a it h unto salvation, ready to be re­
vealed in the last time.” (I Pet. 1. 3-5.)
Remarks: This language cannot possibly be evaded.
It teaches, that the inheritance for which the saints hoped,
was incorruptible,—that same word aphthartos, which
is never applied to any thing, except the bliss of heaven.
It teaches in the second place, that this inheritance is ac­
tually 4
4in h e a v e n ;” and the apostle Peter, in that same
connection, uses the word heaven in such a manner, as
demonstrates his meaning to be the world of celestial
glory! 4
4By them that have preached the gospel with the
Holy Ghost sent down from h e a v e n .” [Ib. 12.] This
clearly shows where this incorruptible inheritance is to
be enjoyed. And it teaches in the third place, that this
incorruptible, heavenly inheritance is conditional, and
to be enjoyed by those 4
4who are kept by the power of
God, through faith.” Paul explains this power of God,
and declares:441am not ashamed of the gospel ofChrist;
for it is the power of God unto salvation, to every one
that believeth.” [Rom. 1. 16.] Those then who are
kept by the gospel, (which can only be by obeying its
precepts,) are the ones who are ultimately to enjoy that
incorruptible inheritance, within the
forerunner has for us entered! But It
v#
UN I VERBALISM
246
that this incorruptible inheritance is 4
4to be revealed in
the last tim e” and the apostle says: 44Even now are
there many* antichrists, whereby we know that it is the
last time? (1 John 2. 18.) But what last time? There
are various last times spoken of in the scriptures.—
There were the last times of the Jewish dispensation,
and the apostle testifies that Christ4
4was manifest in
these last times for you*” (1 Pet. 1. 20.) There was
also the * last tim e” of the apostolic embassy, or of mi­
raculous,demonstration; when, as the apostle John de­
clares, antichrist should come to deceive the very elect,
if possible. But neither of these is the last time, when
the saints shall enjoy that incorruptible inheritance that
fadeth not away! Paul, treating on the resurrection,(1
Cor. 15.24,) says:4
4Then cometh the end” or the 44last
tim e,” when those who are Christ’s, or who have been
4
4kept by the power of God, through fa ith unto salva­
tion,” shall enjoy this incorruptible inheritance; for he
does there most distinctly affirm, that they shall be raised
to in c o r r u p t ib il it y , when death, the last enemy shall be
destroyed!
9 0 “®e ^ou faithful unto deaths and I will give thee
a crown of life.” (Rev. 2. 10.)
Remarks: Universalists can make nothing of this
death, except the literal departure from this world* In
making it signify a moral death, they turn the text into
the most consummate nonsense 4
4Be faithful until you
are morally dead, i. e. dead in sin, and I will give you
a crown of life!!” What an inducement to commit sin.
It is therefore most manifest, that this 44crown of life ”
as a reward of faithfulness, is beyond the natural death
of the body, and consequently in eternity!
O '! 4
4To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with
"•■••m e in my throne, even as I also overcame, and
am set down with my Father in his throne.” [Rev. 3.
A G A IN ST IT S E L F .
Remarks: Neither can this language be applied to
any station or privilege which those who overcame, were
to enjoy in this life. How did Christ overcome. Ans.
By continuing faithful unto death. When was he seat­
ed with his Father upon his throne! Ans. When he
arose from the dead, and ascended to heaven! This
text pointedly affirms: that we are to overcome and set
down upon a throne, 4
4even as” Christ did! Hence, we
are not to overcome, until we have held out faithful to
death; and we cannot set down with Christ in his throne,
until, like him, we arise from the grave, and ascend to
heaven! But remember -that this glorious privilege is
suspended upon the condition of ovsncomire, or contia*
uing FAITHFUL UNTIL DEATH! Forget it H O t!
O O “ Let us run with patience the race that is set
before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and fin*
isher of our faith; who for the j o t t h a t w a s s e t b e f o r e
h im , endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set
down on the right hand of the t h r o n e o f God.” [Heb*
12. 1, 2.]
Remarks: Here the saints are pointed to Christ as an
example; and his enduring the cross, and despising the
shame,¿ n order to obtain 4
4t h e j o t t h a t w a s s e t b e f o r e
h im ,” namety: exaltation to the “righthand o fthe throne
oJwGod” is held out as an inducement to the saints, to
bear patiently their persecutions, with the exceeding
great and precious promise, that4
4if we suffer, we shall
also reign with him.” (2 Tim. 2. 12.) The apostle also
gives them to understand concerning Christ:4
4Though he
were a Son, he learned obedience by the things which
he suffered, and being made perfect, [that is, exited into
the presence of God,] he became the author of eternal
salvation, to all them that obey h im ” (Heb. 5. 8, 9.) All
that will obey him, shall be raised to the same glorified,
and dignified station which he himself occupies, as the
result of his unfeigned obedience» Query: If it were
necessary for Christ, the lovely Lamb ot
*48 UNIVERSALISM
the cross and be made perfect by obedience,in order to
obtain a seat at his Father’s right hand, as we are here
informed; what should we think of the man who would
dare affirm, that the wicked, who live and die in utter
rebellion against Christ, will be just as infallibly certain
of that crown, and wreath of everlasting honor, as the
Messiah himself ?
A Q 4
4Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal
life? (1 Tim, 6. 12.)
Remarks: I have, in the preceding chapter, proved,
that neither Christ nor the apostles speak of 4
4eternal
life? o r4
4everlasting life? only with direct reference to
the immortal state of existence. I here re-assert, that
there is not one text to be found in the New Testament,
where the phrase eternal, or everlasting life, signifies
the present spiritual life of the Christian. But admit-
ing, for the sake of argument, that such was sometimes
its signification, still it could not possibly have that
meaning in the above text. Timothy was undoubtedly
a Christian, and in actual.possession of all the present
spiritual enjoyment, which the Gospel in its nature was
calculated to afford; yet he was not in possession of eter­
nal lifei for he had to fight the good fight of faith, before
that celestial boon could be enjoyed! He was also to
instruct others, who, though like himself, were in the
enjoyment of the present salvation; to lay 44up in store
for themselves a good foundation against the time to
come, that they may lay hold on eternal life? (Ibid.19.)
These facts and considerations dSTnonstrate beyond con­
troversy, that 4
4eternal life? belongs to the future stale;
and it just as evidently follows, hence, that our endless
beatitude depends upon the characters we form here in
time!
9 A u Behold I Paul say unto you, that if ye be cir*
cumcised Chbist s h a l l p&
oott y o u NOTHING!*
(Gal. 6. 2.)
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 24S
Remarks: Our salvation for time and eternity, as
Universalists admit, is staked upon the merits of Christ*
“ N e it h e r is t h e r e sa l v a t io n in a n t o t h e r , for there is
none othenname under heaven,given among men, where-
by we m ust be saved” (Acts 4. 12.) And had not Christ
have died, the whole human race would have been eter­
nally damned, or saved in their sins; for, Mwithout shed­
ding of blood, there can be no re m issio n (Heb. 9. 22.)
Yet notwithstanding all this, the apostle taught the
brethren who were converted from among the Jews,
that should they renounce justification by the faith of
Chri&t, and seek it by going back to circumcision and
the law of Moses, Christ should profit them NOTHING!!
It would be precisely the same as though Christ had not
died; for the apostle does affirm, with direct reference
to this point: If righteousness came by the law, then
Christ is dead IN VAIN!!” fGal. 2. 21.) If Universal­
ists, to escape this difficulty, snould take the ground, that
Christ benefits men only with respect to time, and-that
they mav be saved eternally nevertheless, they only re­
nounce tJniversalism in another way, by giving up the
promise to Aoraham; as well as three-fourtns of all their
other proof-texts, for they are based upon Christ as the
Saviour, of the world! But since the Saviour has posi­
tively affirmed, that no man can come unto the Father
but by him, (John 14. 6,) it follows, therefore, that had
not Christ have died, the posterity of Adam would have
eternally perished, or been saved without coming to
God! Take the argument which way you will, it is a
death-blow to Universalism!
u For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath
ceased from his own works, as God did from his;
let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any
man fa ll after the same example of unbelief.” [Heb. 4.
10,11.]
Remarks: This is our closing argument, and a most
sweeping one it is. The apostle here mfoxmaxiVtaaX
we must labor to obtain that rest, into w
V
vvcX
vCtaraX«er
UNI VERBALISM
I
MO
tered, when he had finished the work of redemption, as
God rested when he had consummated the work of crea-
tion. In order to know what rest Christ entered into,
when he had finished his work, we shall hear the apos­
tle in the same connection. “ Seeing, then, that we have
a great High Priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus
the Sdn of God.” [Ib. 14.J “ Let us labor therefore to
enter into fttrTHAT REST!” But the apostle makes
the matter even stronger, if possible, in the first verse of
this chapter: “ Let us therefore fear, lest a promise be­
ing left us of entering into his rest, any of you should
seem to comu s h o r t o f it .” From all this it is as evi­
dent as language can make it, that “ His Rest,” or
“ That Rest ” most unquestionably signifies “ Heaven It­
self,” into which, as Paul here affirms, Christ has enter­
ed, High Priest over the house of God: and it is also as |
manifestly evident, that this rest can be forfeited by dis­
obedience, and that it actually will be, unless we “ labor*
to enter into it! But Universalists will try to evade this
argument, by assuming that the rest here referred to, is j
the spiritual rest of the believer in the church: and will
quote the third verse of this*ohapter, no doubt, as proof!
“ We which have believed, do enter into rest” This, it
is said, proves that rest to be then present. Not quite
so fast. Paul, speaking of the general resurrection, says:
“ But some man will say, how are the dead raised up?
and with what body do they come!” [1 Cor. 15. 35.1
Here is the same word do, though present in its natural
signification, it is applied to the future resurrection. It
signifies the same precisely, as if he had said: “ With
what body shall they come?” Thus we understand the
apostle: “ We which have believed,shall enter into rest*
at the resurrection of the dead!! But the whole con­
nection forbids the above assumption. Those brethren {
had just been addressed as holy. “ Wherefore holy
brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling.” [Ib. 3. 1.]
Hence, they were then in the enjoyment of the present
rest o fthegospel: and it would have been the very quint­
essence of nonsense* for Paul to exhort toecn to to <
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 26!
er into that rest, when they were already in it, just
much as they possibly could be!
leader: beware, “ lest there be in you an evil heart
jnbelief, in departing from the living God,” [lb. 12,]
nd he swear in his wrath that you shall never enter
j his rest!” [Ib. 13.]
“ And should your ears refuse,
The language of his grace;
And hearts grow hard like stubborn Jews,
That unbelieving race:
The Lord, in vengeance drest,
Will lift his hand and swear:
You that despised my promised rest,
Shall never enter there.”
\
\k
ä
CHAPTER V. *
P E R S O N A L I T Y O F T H E D E V I L .
»RESIST THE DEVIL, AND HE W ILL PLEE FROM YOU.”—Jw .4.7.
Universalists deny in toto, that there is now, or ever
was such a spiritual being as the devil, either real or
personal; and contend, that all the idea designed to be
conveyed by that word, is a personification of the prin­
ciple of evil, in its various forms. It is applied in a met­
aphorical sense, they tell us, to various objects, such as
human nature,—the Roman government,—wicked men,
such as Judas,—the lusts of the flesh, &c., &c., but in j
every case it is to be understood as a figure of speech,
and nothing more. !
This figure was known, in days of old, and designated \
by many titles, expressing his character, attributes, and !
offices. He was called “Abaddon,”—4
4
Apolion? —“Be- \
Hal”—“Accuser”—44The B east”—“The Angel of the
bottomless pit,”—4
4The great Dragon?—4
4
Beelzebub? !
“Deceiver,”—“The E vil One,”—“ The God of this !
world?—“A Murderer? —“A Liar,”—“The Prince of !
this world?—“The Prince of the power of the air? —
“The Old Serpent?—44The Devil?—44The Father of
lie s ? -“The Tempter?—“Satan?—and “The Prince
o f D evilsfU [Rev. 9. U . Yi. \9,20. 12.
9. l Pet. 5. 8. M a t h . Y l . V a .
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 253
4. 4. John 8. 44. 2 Cor. 6. 15. 1 John 3. 8. Eph.
2. 2. Eph. 6. 12. Math. 4. 3.]
He must truly have been an extraordinary metaphor,
possessing doubly as many names as the Almighty him­
self! And I will disprove the existence of God, as a real
personal being, upon the same principle precisely, that
Universalists make out the devil nothing but a figure of
speech,—a personification of a mere principle of evil!—
If because Judas was called u a devil” [John 6. 70,] and
Peter “ Satan,” [Math. 16. 23.] there is therefore no
other devil, except Judas and Peter; then, according to
the same logic,because Moses wag called 44a god,” [Ex.
7.1,] and Abraham “ lord,”[Gen. 18.12,] there is there­
fore no other Lord God except Abraham and Moses!
if, because God is said to perform many wonderful and
mighty works, he is therefore a real being, and not a
personification of a good principle; then, according to
the same logic, the devil must be a real being, and not a
mere personification of an evil principle, for many won­
derful works, in the scriptures, are ascribed to him. He
appeared in the presence of God, and they held a con-
^ versation together concerning Job. Mark the fact: they
^, both conversed together; and if it be consistent to say
^ that one was a mere principle of evil, the other was
t r nothing but a mere principle of good!
^ Again: He caused a wind to blow down the house on
Job’s children, and kill them:—brought the Sabians upon
lit Job’s oxen, who took them all away,—caused the fire
^ of God to fall from heaven, and burn up all Job’s sheep:
& and finally, he smote Job with sore biles, from the crown
of his head, to the soles of his feet. If this was all done
by a figure of speech, they must have had rather a sav-
u age sort of metaphors in Job’s time!! This same figure
f of speech conveyed the Saviour around from place to
1 place,—conversed with him,—quoted scripture,—fell
4 from heaven like lightning,—broke chains and fetters,—
0 had power to cast men into prison,—to walk about as
£ a roaring lion,—to work miracles,—lo overcome
r mans o f one Sceva, a Jew,—to bind a woman
254 U N IV ERSA LISM
years,—to possess a herd of two thousand swine, and
drive them down into the sea, and drown them,—is in
possession of a kingdom,—is to be judged at the last day,
— was conscious that there was a time coming, when he
had to be punished,—confessed Jesus Christ to be the
Son of God, is finally to be tormented in the lake of fire
and brimstone, which is the second death: and strange
to tell, all this is spoken of with reference to an eastern
metaphor,—a figure off speech; and not any real being,
visible or invisible, neither in heaven above, earth be­
neath, or the waters under the earth! [Job 1st and 2d
chap. Math. 4. 6. Rev. 13. 13» Rev. 2. 10. 1 Pet
5. 3. Acts 19. 16. Luke 10.18. Luke 13. 16. Mark
5. 12,13. Math. 12. 26. Mark 5.4. 2 Pet. 2.4. Rev.
20.10. Math. 8. 29.]
If the devil, possessing all the foregoing characteris­
tics, and performing all these wonderful exploits, be
nothing but a metaphor, a mere principle of evil, then
1 defy a Universa!ist to prove, that God is any thing
more than a mere principle ofgood* the opposite of evil;
and that the bible is any thing more than a mere prin­
ciple of humbuggery!
God and the devil are always spoken of in the scrip­
tures as exact opposites, just as much so, as are the prin­
ciples of good and evil. God is the author of truth, and
the devil is the father of lies. God is the Father of
lights, and the devil is the Prince of darkness. Hence
we read: “ Ye cannot serve God and mammon —“ In
this the children of God wee manifest, and the children
of the devil” 4
4The things which the Gentiles sacrifice,
they sacrifice to devils, and not to God.” 4
4What con­
cord hath Christ with Belial ?” 44He that committeih
sin is of the devil,—whosoever doeth not righteousness,
is not of God” 4
4If God were your Father, ye would
love me,—ye are of your father the devil*” [Math. 6.
24. 1 John 3. 8-10. 1 Cor. 10. 20. 2 Cor. 6. 15.
John 8. 42-44.]
AH good, as the reader can discover from the forego­
ing quotations, is ascribed to God;
i
l
]
3
\
<
I
n
*
M
P
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 9 »
ken of as the author of all evil. Now as God is not
merely that goad principle, of which he is the author,
neither is the devil that evil principle of which he is the
author. Is the principle of evil the author of itself? If
so, then the principle of good is the author of itself, and
consequently all the God there is in the universe! Just
as certain as God, the author of good, is a real being,
just so certain is Satan, the author of evil, a real being,
and not that evil principle of which he is the author.—
Thus, upon the same principle, that the devil can be
philosophized into a figure of speech, or a personifica­
tion of a bad principle, can the Almighty Jehovah be
figured out of existence as a real being, and proved to
be nothing more than an Eastern metaphor, or rhetorical
flourish.
But let us try some of the real significations of the dev*
il, according to Universalism, such as the wicked Jews,
—the Roman government,—Judas,—Peter*—human na­
ture,—the lusts of the flesh,—the carnal mind, &c.
The best plan of testing a doctrine, is to substitute the
definition for the word itself, and see what kind of sense
it makes. We shall thus give the Universalist theo­
ry of no-devil-logic a fair trial. “And his fame went
throughout all Syria, and they brought unto him all
sick people that were taken with divers diseases and
torments, and those that were possessed with Raman
governments, and he healed them.” [Math. 4. 24.]—
u Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, de-
Eirt from me ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared
r the Rem an government and his angels.” [Math. 25.
41.] “And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to
Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon: and after the sop, Peter
entered into him.” [John 13. 26, 27.] Or perhaps
Judas entered into himself, since he was as much of a
' devil as Peter was! and of course before that he was out
of himself! “ Resist Peter, and he will flee from you.”
Kam. 4. 7.J “ Be sober, be vigilant, for your adversary,
Her, as a roaring lion walketn about, seeVivna
may favour.” [1 ret* 5. 8.] “ And tine \jnxa
456 U N I V ER S ALISM
mon, Simon, behold Peter hath desired to have you, that
he might sift you as wheat.” (Luke 22.^1.) “And the
God of peace shall bruise Judas under your feet shortly.”
iRom. 16. 20.) 4
4There was given me a thorn in the
lesh, the messenger of Judas to buffet me.” (2 Cor. 12.
7.) 4
4
And he was casting out a Judas, and it was dumb:
and it came to pass; when Judas was gone out, the dumb
spake, and the people wondered. But some of them
said: he casteth out Judas through Peter, the prince of
Judas.” (Luke 11. 14,15.) “ jfe are of your father
Peter, and the lusts of Peter will ye do. He was a
murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth,
because there is no truth in him.” (John 8. 44.) 4
4
And
he asked him, what is thy name! And the human
nature answered, my name is legion, for we are many:
—and all the human natures besought him saying, send
us into the swine, that we may enter into them. And
forthwith Jesus gave them leave, and the huim nnor
tures went out, and entered into the swine, and the
herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea, and
were choked.” (Mark 5. 9-13.) “As they went, behold
they brought to him a dumb man possessed of a human
nature: and when the human nature was cast out, the
dumb spake, and the multitude marveled, saying, it was
never so seen in Israel.” (Math. 9. 33.) No wonder
the people would marvel, that a man could speak, after
his human nature was cast out of him! “ Now when
Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he ap­
peared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast
seven human natures.” (Mark. 16. 9.) I wonder how
many she had left?! “And the Lord God said unto the
carnal mind, because thou hast done this,thou art cursed
above all cattle, and above every beast of the field, upon
thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the
days of thy life.” (Gen 3. 14.) The carnal mind must*
surely have a singular mode of traveling, and live*upon
extraordinary diet!! “And I saw an angel come down
from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit, and a
great chain in his hand*, and he \aSdYvo\d onta&tasUtif (
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 257
the fleshy that old carnal mind) with is Judas and Peterf
and bound them a thousand years.” [Rev. 20. 1, 2.]
“ Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness
io be tempted of the lusts o f theflesh: and when he had
fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterwards an
hungered: and when the lusts of theflesh came to him,
they said unto him, if thou be the Son of God, command
that these stones be made bread. But he answered the
lusts of the flesh, and said: it is written, man shall not
live by bread alone; but by every word of God. Then
the lusts o f theflesh taketh him into the holy city, and
placeth him on the pinnacle of the temple, and saith un­
to him: if thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down, for
it is written: He shall give his angels charge concerning
thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at
any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. Jesus an­
swered the ¿uste of theflesh: it is written, thou shalt not
tempt the Lord thy God. Again, the lusts of theflesh ta­
keth him up into an exceeding high mountain, and show-
eth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of
them, and said unto him, all these things will I give un­
to thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then
said Jesus: get behind me, thou lusts of thefleshy for it is
written: thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him
only shalt thou serve. Then the lusts of theflesh leav-
eth him, and behold, angels came and ministered upto
him.” [Math. 4. 1-11.] Had Christ no lusts of theflesh)
before the devil came to him? And after the devil left him,
had he no more lusts of the flesh? If his own lusts, or his ,
own carnal mind, was the devil that tempted him, was
he not sinful? He certainly was: 6
6Because the carnal
mind is enmity against God.” (Rom. 8. 7.) His lusts
were most unquestionably sinful, if they were the devil
that tempted him; for that which is holy, will not try to
tempt any one into wickedness! When the Pharisees
told Christ he had a devil, it was looked upon then, and
has always been, by professed christiaYis, va
sheer blasphemy) until Universalista have x&aàfc
the discovery that the Pharisees lo\d live
258 U N IV E R S A L IS M
Christ had just as big a devil as any body! If the devil
which came to Christ, and went away from him, wa3
not a real being—nothing but a figure of speech; then
what were the angels, which came to him, after the dev­
il left him? If they were nothing but metaphors, then
how can any man on earth prove that Christ was a real
being? He cannot do it, as we have two metaphors
against the idea, and there is just as much reason in sup­
posing that Christ was a metaphor, as either of the others!
But if the angels were real beings, and Christ a real
being, how can it be supposed, that the devil was noth­
ing but a figure of speech, when he had fully as much
to do in the performance as any of them?
4
4
Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with
the lusts of hisfleshy he disputed about the body of Mo­
ses.” (Jude 9.) Thus, according to Universalism, a spirit
had a contention with the lusts of his fleshy and the
Saviour teaches, that4
4a spirit hath notflesh and bones.”
[Luke 24. 39.] If Universalists, to avoid this absurdity,
should prefer the ground, that the archangel, did not
contend with his own lusts, but with the lusts of Moses’s
dead body; still it will not help them: for they teach,
that when the body dies, tire lusts of the flesh becomo
extinct; and thus the archangel was found combatins j
something that had no existence, and fighting, as Paul
says, like one that beats the air!
“And there was war in heaven: Michael and his
angels fought against the dragon: and the dragon
fought, and his angels.” (Rev. 12. 7.) As the dragon
s and his angels, were nothing butfigures of speech; it is
' not likely that M ic h a e l ana his a n g e l s were real be­
ing! Thus, we have two mighty armies of figures,
meeting in battle array on the plains of heaven, with
two great metaphors at their head as commanders-in-
chief!
“And the seventy returned again with joy, saying,
even the lusts o f the flesh*** subject unto us through thy
name. And he said unto them,\hehe\& lusts oj tV* I
Jlesh as lightning, fatt from heaven? \\jaVe
A G A IN S T IT S E L F :
* And no marvel, for the lusts of theflesh is transformed
into an angel of light.” [2 Cor. 11. 14.] “And when the
thousand years are expired, the lusts of theflesh shall be
loosed out of his prison.” [Rev. 20. 7.]
Prom the foregoing, we discover that the lusts of the
flesh does not suit exactly, as a definition for the devil:
out we shall turn the matter, and try it the other way.
If the devil mean lusU ofcourse then lust means the devil.
“ Now these things were our examples, to the intent
that we should not devil after evil things, as they also
deviled” [1 Cor. 10.6.] “ When the devil has conceived,
he bringeth forth sin.” [Jam. 1. 15.1 “ You ask and
receive not, because you ask amiss, that you may con­
sume it upon your devils.” [Jam. 4. 3.] “ Abstain from
fleshly devils, which war Against the soul.” [1 Pet. 2.
11.] “ All that are in the world, the devil of the flesh,
the devil of the eye, and the devil of life, are not of the
Father.” [1 John 2. 16.] “ The world passeth away
and the devil thereof; but he that doeth the will of God
abideth forever.” [Ibid. 17.] “ The flesh devils against
the Spirit, and the Spirit devils against the flesh, and
these are contrary, the one to the other.” [Gal. 5. 17.]
“But they that will be rich, fall into temptation and a
snare, and into many foolish and hurtful devils, which
drown men in destruction and perdition.” [1 Tim. 6. 9.]
“ That ye put oflj concerning the former conversation,
the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful
devils.” [Eph. 4.22.] “ For of this sort are they, which
creep into houses, and lead captive silly women, laden
with sins, led away with divers devils.” [2 Tim. 3. 6.]
“ The time will come, when they will not endure sound
doctrine, but after their own devils, shall they heap to
themselves teachers having itching ears.” [2 Tim. 4. 3.]
“ How that they told you, there should be mockers in
the last fme, who should walk after their own ungodly
devils.” [Jude 18.] “ Flee also youthful devils.” [2 Tim*
2. 22.J “ And they slew of Monb at tbat tvrcve *5c*sq\.
ten thousand men, all devilish, and a\\ mew
(Judg, 3. 29.) Thus. according to \3n\vet3sX\OTu
MO U N IV E R S A L IS M
have divers kinds of devils, such as 4
4f o o l is h d e v il s ,” —■
44UNGODLY DEVILS,” ----44 DECEITFUL DEVILS,” ----- 44 FLESHLY
DEVILS,” ----44 HURTFUL DEVILS,” ----44 YOUTHFUL DEVILS;” a n d
as all positive adjectives, imply their opposites: we must
also have an other class, such as,4
4w is e d e v il s ,” — 44 god-
• LY DEVILS,” ----44SPIRITUAL DEVILS,”----44PEACEABLE DEVILS,”
44 o ld d e v il s,” &c. &c., and the Lord only knows how
many more kinds of devils there are, if Universalism be
true! Thus Universalists defeat their own object: for in
trying to oppose the existence of o n e devil, t h e y make
out almost as many devils, as there were frogs in Egypt!
They thus out orthodox old orthodoxy herself!
I wish here, to answer a very common objection, which
Universalists almost universally urge upon this subject
4
4Every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his
own lusts, and enticed.” 4
4Christ was tempted in all
points, like as we are.” (Jam. 1.14. Heb. 4.15.) Hence,
the conclusion is, that the devil which tempted Christ,
was his own lusts. But we have examined Christ’s
temptation, and have found that the devil which tempted
him, could not possibly have been his lusts; for it is most
absurd to suppose that his lusts were away from him
forty days, came to him ,—stood before Aero,—got behind
him, and finally left him for good and all!! Hence this
objection can not be well founded. But, says one, how
will you dispose of it? Easily enough! 44Every man
is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lusts and
enticed:” but who is the tempter? Who is the enticer?
Not his own lusts, certainly; for they are. the principle
by which he is induced to partake of the temptation,
after it is presented! But who‘presents it? .That’s the
point. The answer is, the devil! Is he who presents
the temptation, and that principle, which leads you to
partake of it, after presented, one and the same thing!
Not exactly! Jiames does not say, that a man’s lust is
the tempter. Here is where Universalists mistake the
whole matter. Let us illustrate it. Suppose, reader, a
worthless and abandoned speudt\*tiSt comes to
lays every possible inducement Vieiove ^ou, to enty&o\
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 261
tempt you to leave your work, and go with him to the
“grog-shop.” You résistât first, knowing that such a
course of conduct is utterly repugnant to your profession
as a Christian. But “ your adversary, the devil,” through
that wicked agent, (as all wicked men are agents for the
devil,) still persists in his devices, and taxes the last cof­
fer of his sagacity, in order to lure you from the path of
duty. Your old contracted love for ardent spirits,—that
lust of the flesh, which you had once overcome, is now
excited and roused, and finally you yield the point, and
are led away captive by the devil at his will! Now any
man, with half an ounce of perception, can see that lust
is not the tempter, or enticer ; yet, when the temptation
is presented by the devil, either personally, or by human
agency, and we give way to it, then is the time that we
are wdrawn away of our own lusts and enticed.” Thus
would the Saviour have been tempted, had he yielded to
the propc
“tempted .
the lusts of the flesh before the devil came to him that
he ever had, and that he retained them all after the ad­
versary left him, ought to be of itselfsufficient to convince
any man, that the devil which tempted him, was not his
lusts; and this being so, it follows, that the scriptural
doctrine of the devil is against Universalism; although
the devil himself may be in favor of it!!
In conclusion we remark, that there is not a text in the
table, which speaks of the devil as being the lusts of the
flesh:—no, not one? But suppose there were a text,
which figuratively applied the term d e v il to the l u s t s ox
t h e f l e s h ; if this proves that there is no real personal
devil; and that the lusts of the flesh is all the devil there
is: then it follows, according to the same logic, because
Paul says concerning some fellows, who were the ene­
mies of the cross of Christ: “ Whose god is their bellyf
(Phil. 3. 19,) that there is therefore no other God \rv
universe except the belly! If this was ah the
bible held out, tnethioke t h a t A t h e is t s
salists, would be scarce!
“drawn
CHAPTER VL
FORGIVENESS OF SINS.
«BUT HE BEING FULL OF COMPASSION, FORGAVE THEIR INiaOTTY,
AND DESTROYED THEM NOT.**—Psalm 78.38.
Of all the unscriptural, unphilosophical, and incoher­
ent speculations, connected with the theory of modem
Universalism, that which relates to the forgiveness of
sins, is the most perfectly preposterous and unreasona­
ble. This system of faith holds out the idea, that the
sinner, by an immutable decree of the Almighty, is
doomed^ unconditionally, to suffer the full demands of
justice, for every sin he commits (let that demand be
little or much) before he can be forgiven; and that /or-
gweness, in no case, has the least tendency to shield off
deserved punishment! This theory holds forth the sen­
timent, that, notwithstanding all the benevolent efforts,
on the part of the Messiah, in bringing about a remedial
system,—notwithstanding all the merciful provisions of
the gospel of peace, with all its exceeding great and
frecious promises, and notwithstanding the God and
'ather ofour spirits, out of the most pure and unbounded
compassion, bowed the heavens, and gave his only and
well-beloved Son, to suffer and die for the sinner; yet,
there i* no way made possible, by which he can escape
the inflexible penalty of a broken \aw,—there \s no rwsr-
c j can be extended towards h\Tn,nnb\he baa
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 263
the last bitter dreg from the cup of punishment; and
then, and not till then, will God forgive his sins!!
We expect, in this chapter, to urge several weighty
considerations against this hypothesis; and endeavor to
prove from the plain teachings of revelation, and the
nature of God’s moral government, that the forgiveness
of sins consists, in a very especial manner, in the rernis-
sion, or warding off of deserved punishment; and that
there would be no such thing as the exercise of mercy
in the economy of salvation, were such not the case!
Universalists make capital of several texts of scripture,
which we shall examine, and which they claim as posi­
tive proof in favor of the assumption, that God never for­
gives the sinner, until he has inflicted upon him all the
punishment his sins deserve. “ Speak ye comfortably
to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare is ac­
complished, that her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath
received of the Lord’s hand double for all her sins.”—
[Is. 40. 2.] This is the most prominent text in the bible,
upon which Universalists rely, as favoring the above
position. But does this verse prove, that Jerusalem was
pardoned, because she had received punishment to the
full demands of justice? By no means, as we shall show.
But suppose we admit, for the sake of argument, that
“ doublefor all her sin s” does, as Universalists contend,
relate to punishment, it would prove altogether too
much for their theory, and consequently prove nothing.
For if God did not forgive Jerusalem, until he had in­
flicted 4
4double” the amount of punishment due “/o r all
her sin s” then,4
4take heed, lest he spare not you.” Is
thi3 forgiving upon receipt of the full amount of pun­
ishment? Thus, you observe, reader, that this text re­
futes Universalists, take their own exposition of it. If
God forgives the sinner, after inflicting double the de­
mands of justice; may he not vary as much the other
way, and forgive him when half the just amount of pun­
ishment is inflicted? And if God varies so tuodcvVeova
the Umversalist rule9as to inflict putnsbmeoV Vo farifeXo
the demands o fjustice9as they here admit*,
964 U N I V ERBA LISM
on the same hypothesis, punish to alt eternity? Is it j.
not a true principle, that he who will be unjust in little,
will also be unjust in much?
But the “ double ” which Jerusalem received, did not
refer to punishment. The prophet, speaking of Jerusa­
lem, bears me out in this assertion. “After all that is
come upon us, for our evil deeds, and for our great tres-
?uss, seeing that thou our God hast punished us LESS |
HAN OUR INIQUITIES DESERVE, and hastgiy- 1
en us such deliverence as this.” [Ezra 9. IS.] Thus itis \
manifest, that the double, does not refer to punishment;
for Ezra positively informs us, that they were punished
less than their sins deserved; and hence the “ double”
which they received, has reference to something else.
But what! “ For your shame you shall have double,
and for confusion, they shall rejoice in their portion:
therefore in their land they shall possess the double;
everlasting joy shall be unto them.” [Isa. 61. 7.] This
will suffice upon that point.
Again “ Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall
not be unpunished.” [Prov. 11. 21.] This is read in ev­
ery book, and heard in every sermon in defence of Uni-
versalism. But even taking it in an unconditional sense,
it contradicts Universalism; for, according to this doc­
trine, hundreds and thousands of wicked men, in the
very height of their wickedness, fall instantly dead, and
consequently slip off to heaven, and that too, unpunish­
ed! Universalists dare not take the ground, that death
is the punishment for sin; for they universally teach, that
God designed, when he created man, that he should die,
and that death is in no sense of the word a consequence
of transgression. (They thus make out God himself to
be the cfei^Jnstead of the lusts of the flesh; for Christ
came to destroytfeo/A,—Universalism teaches that death
is a work of God, and John says, he was manifested to
destroy the works ofthe devil:—hence God and the devil
signify the same thing!!) Neither dare they take the
position, that those wicked feWowa w\vo\eeve tkv*\&wW i
without punishment, receive \XVa \\ve
A Q A IN ST IT S E L F .
are compelled to admit, according to their own theory,
that the wicked, (many of them,) shall go unpunished/
But in this text, as well as many other such expres­
sions, there is a condition implied*though not here ex­
pressed, as in the promise to Abraham. (See exam, of
Gen. 22. 18. chap. 1.) It is to be understood the same,
(as we shall prove from another text,) as though it read
thus: 4
4Though hand join m hand, the wicked shall not
be unpunished, unless they turn from their wickedness*
This condition is implied in this case, because expressed
upon the same subject in another connection. Hear it.
“ The soul that sinneth it shall die. [This is as emphatic
as the expression,4the wicked shall not go unpunished.9
]
But if the wicked will turn from all his sins tnat he hath
committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which
is lawful and right, he shall surely lvee9he shall not diet*
[Ezek. 18. 20, 21.] or, (which is exactly the same#) the
punishment which was threatened shall not he inflicted/
Thus, notwithstanding God should threaten a wicked
man with death, (which was deserved punishment un­
questionably, or else God would not have threatened it,)
still that wicked man can escape this punishment, by
reformation and obtaining pardon, as certain as the
prophet’s words are to be believed. Hence, there is a
condition implied in all such declarations, find them
where you will in the bible! This rule of implication
will be found an exceeding troublesome thing to Univer-
salists, and in this, as well as in many other cases, it
will put them to their wit’s end perfectly!
Another text is presented. 4
4The Lord God, merciful
and gracious, long suffering and abundant in goodness
and truth; keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving ini­
quity and transgression, and sin, and that will by nomeans
clear the guilty.” [Exodus 34. 6, 7.] According tothe
Universalist exposition of this text, God will certainly
punish a wicked man, all that his sins deserve, let
him repent, turn from his wickedness, or do what he
will! This makes the text most positively to coikVce&aX
HseK « The Lord God, m erciful and graeiesu^tatg-mf»
23
UN IV ERSALISM I
* 6
firin g and ABUNDANT IN GOODNESS;” and there-
tore he will never cease to punish the sinner, let him
repent ever so much, until the very last stripe demanded
by inflexible justice, is inflicted!!! Two declarations,
more palpably contradictory, are not to be found. It is
about like this: “ The Lord God,merciful and gracious,
long-suffering, and ABUNDANT IN GOODNESS,
therefore he will damn the whole human family without
fail!!
But it may be thought that my view of the subiect pre­
sents as much of a contradiction as the above. Not so,
I contend with the bible, that God “ will by no means clear
the guilty”—no, not by forgiveness, nor punishment, nor
any thing else! But Universaiism teaches that God clears
the guilty by punishment! When in fact, let a man be
C
unished ever so much, he is just as guilty as though he
ad not been punished at all. Put a man into the peni­
tentiary three years for theft, and when he serves his
time out, he is no more innocent, than when he com­
menced! But you ask how this apparent difficulty W
ill
be disposed of? In this way, and iii this way only.—
The goilty man must cease to be guilty, by becoming
innocent; and he must become innocent, by complying
with the Lord’s own terms, and receiving the forgive­
ness of his sins, and the removal of guilt from his con*
science ! Thus, God can be abundant in goodness, and
yet by no means clear the guilty. But he can clear the
innocent, and be good to the guilty, in giving them an
opportunity of becoming innocent,—obtaining the for­
giveness of sins, and thus be cleared from suffering that
punishment, which would most inevitably have been in­
flicted, had they continued guilty! This text, as we dis­
cover, proves the exact opposite of thé Universalist theo­
ry, that forgiveness does not shield from justly deserved
punishment. If there be no provision made, by which
4he sinner may escape the sentence of retributive jus­
tice, then the “ goodness” of God is far from being
¿‘abundant?’ Talking of a “ God of cruelty,” and “ a
system o f vindictive tyranny ” com**
A G A IN S T IT S E L F ,
grace from those who look upon the character ofGod, as
do Universalists! If the God and Father of oar spirits
be as destitute of the principle of mercy and goodness,as
the doctrine of Unirersalists represents him, how they
can infer a universal salvation, from Ins character and
attributes, is a mystery which I do not, nor never expect
to understand!
Let us now look at a few texts of scripture which
clearly prove, that the mercy, or goodness of the Lord,
being exercised in the foigiveness of sins, has shielded
men from justly deserved punishment. The verse at
the head of this chapter, is one directly to the point:—
But he being fell of compassion^/ftrgtzre their iniquity,
and destroyed them n et1
9[Psalm 78. 38.] From this it
is evident, that the only reason they were not destroyed*
was, because God “ forgave their iniquity ” This can­
not be disputed. Now since God would certainly have
destroyed them, had he not have fovgiven their iniquity,
it follows indisputably, that foigiveness in this case de­
livered from deserved punishment; for had they not de
served this destruction, there would have been no danger
of the Almighty inflicting ill This testimony cannot be
set aside!
Again: “ The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to
anger, and plenteous hi mercy;—he hath not dealt with
us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our tnt»
quities; for as the heaven is high above the earth, so
great is his mercy towards them that fear him: as far as
the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our
transgressionsfrom u s” [Psalm 103.8-12.] Had we no ,
other testimony, this one text would be of itself, all suffi­
cient to eternally capsize the whole superstructure of
Universalism, relative to the forgiveness of sins. It
teaches, most unequivocally, that on account ofGod being
m e r c if u l and g r a c io u s, he did not deal with men accord­
in g TO THEIR SINS, n o r REWARD THEM ACCORDING TO THEIR
in iq u it y , but removed their t r a n s g r e s s io n s from them,
as far as the east is from the west! This
exercises mercy m forgiving men's am», Vy
986 UN I VERBALISM
with them according as their sins deserve, or rewarding
them according to their iniquity! Jeremiah prays to
God concerning the wicked who had dug a pit for him:
44F o r g iv e n o t t h e ir in iq u it y , n e it h e r b l o t o u t t h e ir
sin s from thy sight, b u t let them be o v e r t h r o w n .” This
proves that they would not be o v e r t h r o w n , if God
should forgive their iniquity; and as God would not over­
throw them, unless they d e s e r v e d it , it follows hence,
that forgiveness shields from deserved punishment!
Now hear the language ofGod to the prophet concern­
ing Judah: “ It may be that the house of Judah will hear
all the evil which I purpose to do unto them; that they
may return every man from his evil way, that I may fo r ­
g iv e t h e ir in iq u it y a n d s in .” [Jer. 36. 3.] And what
would be the result? 4
4If so be they will hearken, and
turn every man from his evil way, that l may r e p e n t of
t h e e v il which 1 purposed to do unto them. [Jer. 26. 3.]
Thus, when God f o r g iv e s a man’s sins, he secures him
from the p u n is h m e n t , or evil which he bad purposed to
bring upon him, and consequently from the punishment
which his sins deserve, for God would not, as we have
before observed, purposed to bring punishment upon
men, which they did not deserve.
The Sodomites were destroyed for their sins, and
Christ informs us, thaf ^ * 1 1 1 4
4would
would, consequently,have escaped deserved punishment;
lor Universalists dare not contend, that God inflicted
upon them above their just deserts! Christ says:4
4Ex­
cept ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.” (Luke 13.
3.) Universalism says:4
4Ye shall all likewise perish, if
ye deserve it, whether ye repent or not; for neither re­
pentance, forgiveness, the mercy of God, nor any thing
else, can possibly shield a man from deserved punish­
ment.” Here we are compelled into one of two conclu­
sions: either that Universalism isfalse,or else that Christ
did not understand it!
Am in: Christ brings forward a similitude to illustrate
the doctrine of forgiveness. u TYvfcre
have remained unto They
AGAINST IT SE L F.
itdr which had two debtors; the one owed him five hun­
dred pence, and the other fifty; and when they had noth­
ing to pay, he frankly forgave them both.” (Luke 7. 41,
42.) The great matter in getting the true idea of a sim­
ilitude, is to understand exactly the points of compari­
son; and not to make points, where there are none. In
this similitude the points are four:—1. C r e d it o r :—2.
D e b t o r :—3. D e b t : and 4. The amount of money due in
the debt The creditor represents God: the debtor re­
presents man: the ddbt represents sin; and the amount
of money due, stands for the punishment due on account
of sin. This cannot be disputed, with any degree of re­
spect for common sense. Now we all know, that when
a debt is forgiven, the debtor, as a matter of course, is
released from paying the amount of money for which that
debts calls: and who must not see, (if there be any sense
in the Saviours comparison,) that, when God forgives the
sinner, the debt of sin is canceled,—the sinner released
from paying the amount of punishment due on account
of the debt, and God relinquishes all former claims
ogainst him, and both parties stand in the same relation
P
recisely, as though the debt had not been contracted!
'his argument can be fortified by collateral evidence.
We are taught by the Saviour, in what is commonly
termed the Lord’sprayer, to petition our heavenlyFather
thus:4
4Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors
(Math. 6. 12.) Now, in order to be certain what is
meant by the debt here spoken of, let us read Luke’s
version of the same prayer:4
4Forgive us our sins, for we
forgive every one that is indebted to us.” (Luke 11. 4.)
Thus it is incontrovertibly established, that sin is the
debt for which we are to petition forgiveness. All we
have to do, in order to arrive at a correct understanding
of the manner in which God forgives sins, is to ask our­
selves the question: How do we forgive our debtors?—
Commonsense tellsus, byrelinquishingour claimsagainst
them, and releasing them from paying the amount the
debt calls for. This Universalists themaetae*
mkf if they have the ¡east particle of honesty •
x*
«70 UNIVERSALISM
not follow then, most unquestionably, that God forgive»
us by canceling the debt of sin, and releasing us from
paying the amount of punishment due on its account?—
Universalists, as a matter of course, will try to twist out
of this difficulty, (and well they might, as it subverts and
uproots the very foundation of their theory;) and in or­
der to this, they will no doubt deny that punishment is
the amount called for, in the debt of sin; as there is no
other position they possibly can take. But they admit,
and contend, that'there is punishment due for every sin
we commit; and that it must certainly and inevitably be
inflicted« We say so too, that is, unless the debt be
forgiven. But if there be punishment due on account of
our sins, as Universalists contend; who is it duoto? Not
to man certainly, although he has to suffer it, just as the
man has to suffer the loss of ten dollars, when he pays a
debt to that amount: but the amount of punishment is
due to God, and to be paid or suffered by us, unless for­
given. Universalists deny the absurdity, that man, by
any thing he can do, can bring God in debt to him; and
hence the amount of punishment due, in the debt of sin,
is due from man to God, and not from God to man!
. A prominent Universalist once, when hard pressed
upon this point, took the position, that love was the
amount included in the debt which we owe to God; and
quoted the Poet to prove it:
4
4But tears of grief can ne’er repay,
The debt of love I owe.”
But this does not help their cause in the least. We
freely admit, that we owe even a whole lifetime of love
and gratitude to God; but this is far from being the debt
of sin. 4
4The debt of love we owe,” is on account of
what God has done for us; whilst the debt of sin is on
account of what man has done against God. But sup­
pose we should admit, that love is the amount included
in the debt of sin, then it follows, when God forgives our
sins, he releases us from the obligation of ever loving
him any more!! But when the individual, above refer­
red toy discovered the absnxdvty Vnta wYnOnY» Y
aAxul
A G AINST I T S E L F . m
himself, he changed ground, and took the position, that
God requires obedience on account of our sins; and that
this is the debt to which die Saviour refers in the Lord’s
prayer. But this does not better the matter in the least.
For, in the first place, it was due to God that we should
obey him in every thing, even before we had sinned; or,
whether we committed sin or not: and sin cannot cer­
tainly make that adebt, which was due before the sin was
committed. And worse still; if our obligation to obey
God be the amount due for the debt of sin, then, when
the debt is forgiven, all claims for obedience are relin­
quished, and we are forever released from all obligation
to obey.GodH But from this position also, our hero soon
fled, and assumed another, which he was certain would
hold him safe. Forgiveness consists in God punishing
men for their sins, as much as they deserve, and then
saving them from committing sin in the future! Sure
enough! This is certainly an improvement. Well, as
we are to forgive ourdebtors asGodforgives us, wemust,
therefore, when a man owes us five hundred pence, make
him pay up the last farthing, and then be sure to never
let him get in debt to us again!! Reader, what would
you think of us, if you were indebted to us one thousand
dollars, and we should forgive you according to the phi­
losophy of Universalism! I know scores of individuals
who would become very benevolent characters in for­
giving poor men their debts, if they were only initiated
into the sublime mysteries of Universalism!
But if God in all cases punishes the sinner all that his
sins deserve, what then does he remit! Not deserved
punishment; for that he must inevitably suffer. Not
the sinner; for he goes free as a matter of right Not
future sins; for sins must first be com-mitted, before they
are re-mitted. Not future undeserved punishment; for
such punishment God never intends to inflict! What
then, 1 ask, does the forgiveness of Universalism consist
in! Ans. Nothing. Christ suffered and died for noth­
ing, because man was in danger of «kanX
»
which he would have to suffer any how *
U N IV E R S A L IS M
whole bflffwn fee ' eternally saved from noth*
the anecdote of an infidel, who joined the Universalists,
at the organization of a church in one of the eastern
states. When the meeting had broken up, one of the
by-standers addressed him: Mr. F. what made you join
the Universalists! I thought you professed to be noth«
ing. I do, replied he, and that is the very reason why
I pined them, because they come the nearest nothing,
of any thing I oversaw!!
As Universalists contend, that God never remits the
punishment for sin, it follows hence, that the Sodomites
will never be raised from the dead; for they died as a
punishment for sin. How, then, can they be made holy
and happy in the resurrection! And if, (as Universal*
istssometimescontend,) forgiveness isalwaysconsequent
upon a full receipt of punishment, and that too, in order
to prevent crime; then the Sodomites are not yet for­
given, as death, which was their punishment, yet holds
its dominion over them; and they will not be, till they
are raised from the dead, if that event should ever occur:
and then we should like to have Universalists tell us,
what crime forgiveness will restrain them from commit­
ting beyond the resurrection!
if Universalism be true, then there can be no such
thing as repentance, in the common acceptation of that
.word, expected of any man in the universe. No man
can repent of sins he has never committed: and as for
repenting of past sins, it is all of no avail, as he knows
he must suffer for them, penitent or impenitent, to the
full demands of inflexible justice. Hence the doctrine
of repentance is utterly out of the question, and ought
to be expunged from the vocabulary of Christianity.
Universalists sometimes speak of God in such a pa­
thetic manner, that one woula suppose,himcomposed es­
sentially of love, and that mercy was his only attribute:
and then again, when we hear them descant upon his
iMcompromising strictness andseverity,in punishingthe
flbM f with the very lent stripe damandad^
mg!! Glorious I am here reminded of
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . m
laidunmingled justice, let circumstances be as they may;
we are led to conclude, that, instead of mercy forming
any part of his character, be has far more the resem­
blance of .a cruel and vindictive tyrant, than a God of
unbounded compassion, and infinite benevolence! Look
at the premises and conclusion. * God loves the sinner,
with an undying and everlasting love; and is infinitely
better to him than the most affectionate earthly parent
can be to the son of his delight,” and therefore he will
never forgive him, and never cease to punish him, until
he has made him to suffer the last stripe his sins deserve,
let him be ever so penitent and humble!! What logic!
What logic!
Yes, when God forgives a debt he makes the debtor
first square up to the very last farthing,and then forgives
him, after the debt is paid! Foigiveness is everywhere
held out in the bible as a great blessing: and the way
God blesses the sinner, is always to inflict upon him the
severest penalty of a broken law, and make him suffer
all that his sins" deserve!! It is also a doctrine plainly
taught in the bible, that God will curse men for their
wickedness; and the way this is done, according to Uni-
rersalism, is to bless them with stripes of forgiveness!!
Thus, to bless with punishment,and curse withforgive*
ness, are all one and the same thing, if Universalism be
true!
Now if this doctrine be not one solidcompound ofnon-
sense^andan incoherent bundle ofabsurdities, thenIknow
not where such a bundle could be found* Universalists
have certainly an altar erected and inscribed to an un­
knownGod;forhowthey can professtoworshipand adore
a being of infinite goodness, and believe in the revolting
and withering sentiments they do, relative to forgiveness
of sins, is a problem which none can unravel, except the
rabbinical literati of modern Universalian-divinity!
What would a prisoner, in the Ohio penitentiary,
think of the Governor, if he should come to him, after he
had served his time out, and offer him
be weald look upon it as an insult to common
874 UNIVERBALISM
he would no doubt answer the Governor: I have a right i
to my liberty now, and no thanks to you, sir, for I have
earned it by the hardest. I would have* taken it as an
act of kindness, had you pardoned me two years ago,
and released me from the remainder ofmy deserved pun­
ishment; but now to offer me pardon and liberty as an
act of mercy, when I have as good right to it, as any
man in the state, is an imposition too gross for any mao
of. principle to be guilty of.
Neither would Se prisoner ever be induced to love
the Governor from such sheer mockery, but exactly the
reverse, as any one can see. All this applies in full
force, to the deity of Universalismi If the Governor !
should forgive the convict in the midst of his punish- |
ment,it would have much the appearance of mere}'; ;
and would naturally call forth corresponding love and 0
gratitude on the part of the prisoner. But there would |
be no mercy in the Governor forgiving the convict, and P
still keeping him in prison; neither would there be the r
least particle of mercy in pretending to forgive him, af- *
ter he had suffered all the punishment that the law de- :
manded. Hence we are inevitably driven into the con- 1
elusion,ifUniversalism be true, that mercy should not be
numbered among the attributes of God! But suppose
Universalists, to avoid this conclusion, should take the |
position, that, after the sinner is punished all that his
sins deserve, God exercises mercy towards him, in ward- ;
ing offfuture punishment? To this I would reply: that j
the future punishment to which he may be exposed, is
either his just deserts, or it is not. If it is, then the |
mercy of God exercised in forgiveness, shields from de­
served punishment, which upturns the whole fabric of
Universalism. But if this future punishment, to which
the individual may be exposed, be not just, it requires
nothing but justice on the part of God to shield himfrom
it, and mercy has no hand in the matter! Hence, every
exertion, made on the part of Universalists, to extricate
themselves from the innumerable absurdities of their
contradictory theology*the deeper uwddee^x
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . STS
involved in the midst of insuperable difficulties, which
are but the spontaneous products of the soil of Univer­
salism.
But the doctrine of Universalism, upon this subject,
can be also exposed, by comparing it with the forgiveness
which Christians are to exercise towards one another;
for the apostle exhorts: “ Even as Christforgave you, so
also do y e ” [Col. 3. 13.1 Now, suppose a brother has
trespassed against you, Dy maliciously slandering your
character, or by fraudulently taking away your property;
all will admit that such an one justly deserves to be pun­
ished. But suppose he comes to you, confesses his fault,
and desires you to forgive him; you are bound to do it.
Now do you not, by this act of mercy, shield the offen­
der from deserved punishment? If you do not, then
there is no mercy in the forgiveness, for he is precisely
as well off without it as with it. But it should here be
remarked, that God sometimes chastises the offender, in
order to bring him to reformation, (as will be discovered
in another part of this work,) and when this end is ob­
tained, the transgressor is pardoned. But it does not
follow from this, that the offender, in such a case, was
punished all that his sios deserve. This assumption goes
upon the-hypothesis, that all punishment is disciplinary,
and that sin, in no case, deserves any more punishment
than will be for the good of the transgressor. But a
more baseless fabrication has never been erected, as will
be hereafter shown. But as God punishes, or chastises
his children, to make them reform, and when this end isef­
fected, forgives them, in order to shield them from the re­
mainder of the punishment which their sins justly de­
serve; the same thing is also required of the church; and
we have an example recorded in confirmation of this
very position. “.Sufficient to such a man is this punish*
merit, which was inflicted of many: so that contrariwise
ye ought toforgive him.” [2 Cor. 2. 6, 7.] But did he
receive all the punishment nis sins justly deserved? By
no means: but his punishment was “sufficient” torefotvfc
him; andhence the church is exhorted to
U N IV E R S AL18M
m
towards him in forgiving his iniquity, and not to punish
him according to the strict demands of unmitigated jus*
tice!
But there is another view of the subject, which we in­
tend now to present, which must lay omt the doctrine of
Universalism, and put it forever at rest. We take this
position at the start: that if there be no such thing in
the economy of salvation, as releasing the sinner from
suffering any punishment which his sins justly deserve,
then Christ suffered in vain, and mightfes well never have
left the bosom of his Father, for all the benefit we can
derive from his death! In sustaining this position, it
will be discovered, that the whole theory of Universal-
ism, connected with this subject, is based upon a palpa­
ble misunderstanding of the atonement ot Christ It
may be considered almost like attempting to prove that
fire will burn, in arguing the above proposition; for it is
as axiomatic as that two and two make four. If man, by
an irrevocable decree of Jehovah, is doomed uncondi­
tionally to suffer all that his sins deserve, as a pre-requi­
site to pardon; could he not then, I ask, have suffered this
full amount of punishment, as well without the sufferings
of Christ, as with them? Again: If all that is necessary,
as a pre-requisite to forgiveness, is for the sinfter to suf
fer out the full demands of justice; then could not God
have been just, and the justifier ofhim who was sufficient­
ly punished, as well without the death and sufferings of
Christ as with them? Once more: If Christ suffered and
died for the sins of men, and if men have to suffer for
their own sins ail the punishment they deserve before
they can be forgiven, then does it not follow, that either
Christ or the sinner suffers unjustly! But finally: If the
scriptures do teach that.Christ suffered and died, on ac­
count ofour sins, does it not follow, incontrovertibiy, that
when we accept of the merits of Christ, we are thereby
released from suffering the punishment due on account
of our sins, because of the sufferings of our surety? If
not, then in the name of reason, what benefit do we de­
rive from the sufferings of CYvfxsVt Just wm* at
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 277
F ro» this it is roost indisputably evident, if Universal-
ism be true, that Christ might just as well have saved
himself the trouble (I speak with reverence) of coming
down into this sinful and wretched world, and suffering
the shameful and ignominious death of the Homan cru-
eifix, for the sins of men; since, in fact, all his prayers
and groans, and sweat and blood, are of no avail, and
have not the least particle of tendency towards better­
ing the sinner’s condition, or shielding him from any
punishment to which he is exposed! For,according to
this cruel and hard-hearted system, God had decreed by
Jus immutable council, that no reprieve,—no sacrifice,—*
oo atonement,—no mediation,—no pardon,—no justifi­
cation,—no repentance, nor any, nor all other things
combined, could have the least tendency towards mitn
»ting the sinner’s punishment! No, reader, nothing
does this system of rentiess tyranny hold forth, as the
4
4glad tidings of great joy9
9to the sinner, let him be
ever so penitent, but the bitter cup of sufferings, which
he is compelled to drink to the very dregs, before ever
the sceptre of pardon can be extended!
4
4If such the sweetness of the stream,
What must the fountain be?9
9
Paul affirms that 4
4Christ died to save sinners;" but
what from? Not from sin, for punishment does that—
Not from punishment, for this they are compelled to sufi
fer! The penalty of the bfoken law must in all cases be
inflicted, and never, until this is done, can the sinner be­
come righteous: and thus it is demonstrated, if this view
of the subject be correct, that righteousness comes by
the law; and hence we are compelled to come to the
same conclusion the apostle did: “I f righteousness
come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain” [Gal. 2.
21.] Hut as righteousness does not come in this man­
ner, we are bound still to believe with Paul, how much
soever it may cross the track of Universaiism, that
“Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the Iota,
being made a cursefo r u s ” [Gal. 3. \3.*\
Universelists contoad thatUhrist died
278 U N I V E RS ALISM
love of God to man, and quote the apostle to prove it: j
u But God commendeth his love towards us, in that, while l|
we were yet sinners, Christ died for u s ” [Rom. 5. 8.] 1
This, however, is a fatal text to Universalism : for if God |;
commanded his love towards us, in giving Christ to suffer
and die; then it is certain that we must derive some ben­
efit from his death and sufferings, which, we have dis­
covered, cannot be the case according to Universalism!
Had Paul believed the absurd and blasphemous assump­
tion of Universalism, he would undoubtedly have ex­
pressed himself differently. wBut God commendeth his
vengeance towards us, in that whilst we were yet sinners,
in great need of assistance, he made his only begotten j
Son, to suffer and die the shameful and ignominious death I
of the cross, for nothing at all; as every sinner has to !
suffer just as much exactly, as though Christ had not
died." If this is commending the love of God to man,
then love and wrath are synonymous terms! ,
Some of the orthodox have gone upon extremes the
other way, and Univcrsalists have taken advantage of
this circumstance, and made it a pretext for denying in
toto, the doctrine of vicarious atonement. Jt is true,
that one extreme naturally begets another; but still this
is no reason, because some have abused the doctrine,
that Universalists should therefore deny it altogether. 1
It is argued by some, that Christ absolutely paid off the
debt of sin to God, and suffered in his own person all the
Îunishment due, for all the sins of Adam's race! Then,
taiversalists ask, do the sins of men deserve endless
damnation ? If so, did Christ suffer endless damnation?
If so, then he is suffering still, and will continue to suffer
to all eternity! This difficulty cannot be disposed of,
according to the above position. Another objection
urged against this view of the subject, is, that if Christ
paid off the debt, and suffered all that our sins*deserved;
then no thanks to God for our salvation, for the glory
and gratitude are all due to Christ alone! But a third
objection urged against the doctrine of pay-up, is, that it
Z&kes it absolutely necessary for
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 279l
mit jast so much sin; ifnot, then there would be a danger
of Christ paving too much, or else not enough! But all
these difficulties can be easily and satisfactorily disposed
of, if we look at the object of Christ’s sufferings, in the
true light of revelation. Although Christ suffered in our
stead, and bore our sins in his own body, yet it does not
follow hence, that Christ must necessarily have suffered
all the punishment our sins deserve. The true doctrine
is this, as the scriptures clearly and abundantly teach,
that Christ as a days-man, suffered only enough to make
a reconciliation possible, and make it just for God to for«
give the sinner, and shield him from his deserved punish*
ment. The apostle declares: “ Whom God hath set
forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to
declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are
past, through the forbearance of God. To declare, I say,
at this time his righteousness, (or obedience in suffering
upon the cross,) that he m ight be hist, and the justifier
t f him that believeth in Jesus. £Rom. 3. 23, 26.J—
Hence, God could not, without violating his justice, have
pardoned the sins of one of Adam’s race, had not Christ
have suffered for our sins-—the just for the unjust. Thus
Christ having suffered enough, and only enough, to bring
man within the reach of God’s mercy, that he might be
just, and at the same time deliver him from the punish­
ment which his sins justly deserved, upon the condition
of submitting to the terms of pardon, makes the debt of
gratitude for this great salvation, due from the sinner,
equally to God and to Christ. God was willing to save
the sinner from the punishment due on account of his
sins, providing the sinner was willing to be saved; yet he
could not do it, without violating his immutable justice,
unless Christ, as an infinite sin-offering, should volunta­
rily suffer in our stead, enough, that mercy might reach
us, and the justice of God be sustained. Universalists
may laugh at this idea, but, in doing so, they are only
laughing at the apostle Paul, and unvailing their infidel­
ity, which always laughs at any doctrine which hold*
forth the real character and heinousneaa ot %
\n*
WO UNI VERBALISM \
■ I
We shall now close this chapter, by presenting tty
contrast between Universalism and the bible, with refer- |
ence to the sufferings of Christ:
Bible: 44Being justified freely by his grace, through
the redemption that is in Christ Jesus.” [Rom. 3* 24.]
Universalism: Being justified out of pure necessity,
through the virtue there is in punishment
Bible: 4
4Surely he;hath borne our griefs, and carried
our sorrows.” [Is. 53.4.]
Universalism: Surely we shall bear our own griefs,
and carry our own sorrows; and therefore, Isaiah, surely j
you are mistaken!
Bible: 44He was wounded for our transgressions, he
was bruised for our iniquities.” [Verse 5.]
Universalism: We must all be wounded for our own
transgressions, and bruised for our own iniquities, just as
much as though Christ had not been bruised at all!
Bible: 4
4The chastisement of our peace was upon
him.” [Ibid.1
Universalism: The chastisement of our peace must be
upon our own heads, notwithstanding!
Bible: 4
4With his stripes we are healed.” [Ibid.]
Universalism: With our own stripes we are healed,
and not until we receive the very last one!
Bible: 4
4The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us
all.” [Verse 6.] I
Universalism: The Lord hath laid on us all our own
iniquity, and there is no possible way for us to escape j
the penalty, any more than if Christ had never died!
Bible: 44For the transgression of my people was he
stricken.” [Verse 8.]
Universalism: The people shall be stricken for their
own transgressions, and the sufferings of Christ cannot
help them in the least.
Bible: 4
4By his knowledge shall my righteous servant
justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities.” [Verfp
i l ]
Universalism: By the virtue there is in p»?ni«lyn«nfr
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . m
¿all my righteous servant justify many, for they shall
ill bear their own iniquities!
Bible: 6
4Forgiving one another, even as God for
Christ’s sake hath forgiven you.” [Eph. 4. 32.]
Universalism: Forgive one another, even as God for
the sake of punishment forgives every one that is for­
given!
Bible: 4
4Repent ye therefore and be converted, that
your sins may be blotted out.” (Acts 3. 19.]
Universalism: Wait patiently, until you are punished
as much as your sins deserve, and they shall then all be
blotted out, as a matter of course, and you need not ex*
pect it before!
Bible: 4
4For Christ hath suffered for sins, the just for
the unjust, that he might bring us to God.” [1 Pet* 3.
130
Universalism: Every unjust man must suffer for his
own sins, until they are paid up, and thus punishment
will make him just, and bring him to God, independent
of the sufferings of Christ!
Bible:4
4Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the
law, being made a curse for us.” [Gal. 3. 13.]
Universalism: We must redeem ourselves from the
curse of the law, by suffering all the penalty which the
law demands, and ergo, Christ suffered the curse for
nothing!
Bible: 44He that believeth and is baptized shall be
saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned.”—
[Mark 16. 16.]
Universalism: He that believeth and is baptized shall
not be saved, unless he has first suffered all the punish­
ment his sins deserve; and he that believeth not shall be
damned, and he shall be damned any how, if he deserves
it, whether he believe or not; for every man must first
pass through the punishment of damnation, before his
sins can be forgiven!
Bible: 4
4Who his own self, bear our sins in his own
body on the tree.” [1 Pet. 2. 24.1
Universalism: w e our own selves^ axe
24 r*
U N IV E R S A L ISM
bear our own sins, in our own bodies, until we have {
suffered all the punishment which justice demands; and
the death of Christ is of no more avail, than the death |
of Nero!
Now reader, can y o u believe Universalism, and at the
same time believe the bible! If so, may the Lord assist
you to open your eyes, unstop your ears, and stir up I
your conscience, whilst you examine the following arti­
cle:
CHAPTER VII.
COMPUNCTIONS OF CONSCIENCE.
«B A K IN G LIES IN HYPOCRISY. HAVING THRU CONSCIENCE BEAR»
ED WITH A HOT IRON.”—1 Tim 4. S.
tJniversalism confines all punishment for sin to this
life; and as it is a stubborn fact, which Universalists, as
well as others, are compelled to admit, that wicked men,
as a general thing, in point of worldly prosperity, are
equally as successful as the righteous, and many times
more so: hence, it is contended, that the punishment
which God invariably inflicts upon the sinner, is mental
anguish, or remorse of conscience.
Universalists have been allowed to say and write ai>
most any thing and every thing upon this subject, with-t
out being formally and effectually opposed; and some
have even yielded up the whole ground, as being too
metaphysical and abstruse to do any thing with; whilst
others have conceded enough, (by admitting, that God
does sometimes punish men severely for their sins, with
the upbraidings of a guilty conscience,) to give Univer-
salism a good foot-hold, and a firm clinch with both
hands!
It is true, I have sometimes seen this subject casually
noticed, in works opposed to UmveTsa\\am,nxv& <&
&
&
:
aonaUjr, perhaps, a difficulty or dilemma \t
opposition to the doctrine; but nearly a\woya
884 U N I V ERS A LISM
enough in the same connection, not only to strengthen
the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees of Univer­
salism; but also to nullify the force of all the arguments
they had there presented. For this reason, I have con­
cluded to devote an entire chapter to the consideration
of this supposed intricate question, and if Universalism
be not weighed in the balance and found wanting, then
set me down as a false prophet.
It must be admitted on all hands, that the punishment
which God inflicts for sin, must be dealt out upon the
principles of equality and justice, that is, the man who
is the greatest sinner, should suffer the severest penalty.
This will not be disputed. But is such the real state of
the case, admitting the truth of the assumption, that re­
morse of conscience is the only divine punishment now
to be inflicted for sin? Nay, verily! To this the read­
er’s attention shall now be directed.
The apostle declares, in the text quoted at the head
of this chapter, that certain characters had become so
wicked and depraved, that their conscienceswere seared
with a hot iron. In another place he gives us to under­
stand what he means by this phrase: Who being PAST
FEELING, have given themselves over unto lascivious­
ness, to work all uncleanness with greediness.* [Eph. 4.
19.] Now as certain as the apostle has told the truth,
that wicked men can become so debased, and that their
consciences will become seared to such an extent, that
they get past feeling, and consequently are devoid of all
remorse; then it follows, that the more wicked men can
{get, the less punishment they have to endure, until final-
y they can get so bad, as to get out of the reach of all
punishment, and then they can go ahead, and the Al­
mighty can do nothing with them, since their consciences
are so seared as to be past feeling any thing like remorse;
and he dare not, according to Universalism, punish them
in the future state!
We not only have the testimony of the apostle, that
a man may become so hardened, as V
o have no more
compunctions of conscience*, V
>
nVv\\e
AGAINST IT S E L F .
cry reader must bear witness to the same fret. Ob*
serve that youth, when he commences the practice of
profane swearing. The first oaths he utters, strike to
nis heart a dagger of the keenest guilt, and haunt his
midnight hours of slumber. But, he continues the prac­
tice, and, like all wicked men and seducers, waxes worse
and worse. But, as he becomes more and more profane,
the Universalist’s hell, instead of getting hotter and hot­
ter, as it should, grows cooler and cooler, until finally
the last spark ofñame becomes extinguished, and the fire
goes out. And now the result is, ne can utter oaths,
(the sound of which, would at first have made the blood
to chill in his veins,) without feeling the least compunc­
tions of conscience, and could even, almost at every
breath, blaspheme the name of God, and damn his own
soul to perdition, with a smile upon his countenance,
and in the very height of worldly enjoyment! He is
certainly situated in a very comfortable ksU and the
thoughts of leaving it, and going to heaven, I will ven­
ture the assertion, would be the most wretched feeling
he ever experienced in his life: and I also firmly believe,
that could he be induced to pray at all, his first, and
most fervent petition would be, for God always to keep
him iu just sucha hell as that! He could not be pleas­
ed better than to be eternally roasted in the fires of Uni-
vefsalisml!
It iscertainly an incontrovertible position, which no
one in his senses will dispute, that as men increase in
wickedness, the lashings of a guilty conscience become
less and less severe, until all moral susceptibility finally
dies away,—the conscience grows callous, by oft repeat­
ed wounds, and the individual gets pastfeeling! This
is seen in a boy, who commences his career of wicked­
ness, by stealing a pin from his mother’s sleeve. He has
been taught that it is wrong to steal, and hence his con­
science goads him for the deed. His next effort is in tak­
ing fruit from a neighbor’s orchard. From this he
goes to the store, and when unobserved, ha
Juúfs ¡ato his pocket, worth half ado\W » Tin
UN IV ERflA LV SM
2ft
ceeds to the gambling shop, where, by drinking and gam­
ing, he spends all his money; and, to make up his loss,
he takes his stand in the highway with sword and pis­
tols, and robs a traveler of a thousand dollars! And
from this he is seen as a pirate, traversing the high seas,
and with the most perfect impunity, butchering hund­
reds and thousands of men, women and chrildren, and
sinking them to the bottom of the ocean; and all, too,
with less remorse of conscience :than he experienced,
when first he took the pin from his mother’s sleeve!—
Now, according to Universalism, when this individual
had committed the most trifling offence, and was conse­
quently the least guilty, he was in the very hottest part
of hell; but when he became the most wicked, and of
course deserving of the severest punishment, the hell
of Universalism cooled offjust then, and this conscience-
seared wretch, found himself entirely free from all re­
strainV—he had sinned himself clean out of Ae&,and was
on the broad road to heavenly bliss, destitute of all pun­
ishment, wading up to his knees in the blood of slaugh­
tered innocence!! It isof no avatWor Universalists to con­
tend here, as did George Rogers in the Pro and Con, that
the fact of men being past feeling, and having their con­
science seared, is punishment of itself! Singular pun­
ishment truly, and they cannot feel it1
. We might just
as logically contend, that the swine which wallows in
yonder mire, because insusceptible of feeling remorse,
ib punished for the sin of rooting down the fence, as to
take the absurd position, that men are severely punish­
ed, when all the men in the universe could not make
them believe, but that they were the happiest beings in
the world! Go to that bloated sot, who is now, perhaps
for the thousanth time, reeling under his load of strong
drink, and, according to Universalism, in hell torment;
look into his blue-red bloated face and blood-shotten
eyes, and ask him how he feels; and if his tongue is not
too thick to articulate an answer, he will tell you, he
M rer felt better in his life! Ask him if he desires to be
more happy, and he will te\\ 'yenhe Aoeenau
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . tsr
as happy as he can be: and yet he is in hell, where the
worm dies not, and the fire is <not quenched! If you
wish to make that man miserable, only convince nim
that Ids destiny is to go to heaven, and your object will
be accomplished; unless you should convince him at the
same time, that there would be a distillery carried on
there; and even then, he would prefer remaining in this
Universalian hell, where he could be certain of it! It
may be said, that although the man does not get his pun­
ishment whilst in this condition, hut just wait till he gets
sober! But how about that man who is always drunk,
and never sober, until he wakes up, sober, in the para­
dise of God?! Such a man, according to Universalism,
must certainly get to Heaven free-toll, because he had
got too bad to be punished! He had become so wicked,
that the Universalian hell would take no hold on him;
and hence, he must either be saved in his sins, or handed
over to the orthodox!
Universalists appear te know, and talk, and write
more about the terrible feelings of a guilty conscience
than any body else.; and 1 have sometimes been curious
to know, whether they speak this of themselves, or of
some other men. But I wish it to be understood, that
I do not deny-that men will have a guilty conscience,
when they commence practicing iniquity: but I do con­
tend, and every candid person must admit the same, that
when they get so depraved as to be “pastfeeling,” their
conscience no longer goads them; and hence, if that be
the punishment inflicted for sin, they go clear when they
deserve the most, utterly destitute of any punishment
at all! This doctrine must aiso naturally encourage the
sinner, to push on as fast as he possibly can in the ways
of wickedness, in order to get his conscience seared, and
get past feeling as soon as possible, that he may then,
and forever afterwards, be clear of punishment! But it
may be-objected, that although his conscience ceases to
upbraid him, yet he is punished in another way; for the
scriptures declare, that the wicked sV
tidY ho\A\n^
halftheir d a y s [ P s , 55. 23.] So much \Yve \fe\X£t Sat
UNI VERBALISM
him, as he will get to heaven as quick again as he would 1
had he been a decent man!
The wicked shall not live out half their days,
But, on account of their ungodly ways,
Shall die, and strait to heaven then they’ll go,
To be forever free from pain and woe!
’Tis true the sting of sin is quite severe,
But still there is no ground for men to fear;
For wicked men will get to heaven first,
And hence the best way, is to be the worst!!
No man will feel remorse of conscience for going to
heaven, even if he should get there twice as soon as the
Lord intended he should! If a man was a firm believer
in Universalism, and should murder his neighbor, would
he feel guilty for it? Why should he? God foreordain*
ed it, and the blessed doctrine of Universalism informs
him, that it will all be overruled fort his good! And as
for the man whom he murdered, he has done him a kind­
ness, by sending him off to heaven! Why then should
his conscience goad him? No sir, ’tis all a hoax! No
man, who honestly believes Universalism, will feel the
least remorse, let him do what he will. As well might
a big stone have compunctions of conscience, for rolling
down a hill, after some one had started it, as for a man
to feel guilty for doing what God had absolutely decreed,
and what would be overruled for the greatest possible
good of all parties concerned!
If a man is, as Universalism teaches, a mere machine,
and not a moral agent, then there can be no such thing
in existence, as compunctions of conscience. Let a
man be convinced, when he steals his neighbor’s horse,
that he acts out of pure necessity, and not from freedom
of will,—that God from all eternity bad decreed that
very act,—at that very time, and by that very instru­
mentality, and how much will his conscience goad him?
Just as much, verily, as it wovM n tnanAot
A G A IN S T I T S E L F .
born with but one eye! As certain as *afreew ill is a
chimSrcb” which the Pro and Con asserts, (page 390,) so
certain is every thing like guilt or remorse of conscience
44a chimera^’ and hence, Universalism, from root to
branch, is predicated upon a chimerical baseless assump­
tion. And here we discover, by logical deduction, the
shere infidelity of the whole system, in denying in toto,
human responsibility and divine punishment. a What
need we of farther witnessP*
But admitting all for which Universalists contend,
upon this subject, still there are difficulties which must
forever block up their way. They are compelled to take
one of two grounds; either that conscience is, in all cases,
and at all times, an unvarying guide, and an infallible cri­
terion relative to the exact amount of punishment due
for sin; or else that it is noU If it be not acorrect rule,
and infallible minister of justice, then it cannot be the
Lord’s plan of punishing sinners; for all must admit his
rule to be like himself: “ Without variableness or shadow
of turning.” But if it be in all cases an infallible guide,
then it demonstrates the truth of endless damnation, for
the consciences of hundreds and thousands of wicked
men, have borne witness to this doctrine. Myriads
have gone into eternity, with the most perfect assurance
of their own consciences, that eternal perdition was to
be their inevitable doom! Thus, let them meet which
horn of this dilemma they please, it gores their doctrine
to death!
But why should Universalists condemn usf They
admit that punishment is a motive to deter from the com­
mission of crime. If so, why condemn the orthodox,
since they believe in the compunctions of conscience-
all the punishment for which universalists contend,and
in addition to this, they believe in punishment beyond
death; and hence, have all the incentive that Universal*
ists have, and a great deal more! But they tell us, that
from the penalty of Universalism, there is no escape for
the transgressor; and “herein consists the
Universalism.” But the orthodox contend «a **
9b
» 0 U N I VERBALISM
do the Univexsalists, that it is impossible for the sinner
to escape the compunctions of conscience, that is, until
his conscience becomes seared, and hence they have all
the moral power for which Universalists contend; and
in addition to this, they hold out the infinite motive of
future and eternal punishment, which will be as certain*
ly and inevitably inflicted as the other, unless a reform*
Nation of life takes place before death. More than this;
the compunctions of conscience, under the belief of or*
thodoxy, must necessarily be much more severe, than
under the belief of Universalism. A man dying in the
thraldom of iniquity, with the firm conviction that ever*
lasting destruction is to be his doom; who can paint, or
even imagine the torment he must suffer, from the goad*
ings and upbraidings of his guilty conscience? But let
a man be brought upon a death bed, a firm believer in
Universalism, (if such a case could be found,) and let
him, if you please, be the wickedest man on earth, and
where is his remorse of conscience? He has none, as
every man, who can reason logically, must decide. He
looks back upon his past life, and concludes, that notwith*
standing he had done many things that people looked
upon as wrong, yet God had decreed them, and hence
they were right, as they would all certainly be overruled
for good. And the thoughts of sin being such a harm­
less thing, as only to affect him in this short life, and
even here, not enough to cause the loss of a minute’s
sleep on its account; and in addition to this, the thoughts
of being transported, in a few minutes, from the domin­
ions of pain and sickness, into the gardens of fadeless
beauty, and the realms of uninterrupted felicity, would
drive remorse as far from his conscience as the east is
from the west! . And if the doctrine of Universalism, as
its advocates are compelled to admit, will let a man die
in his sins, and die happy at the same time; will it not
also* on the same principle, cause a wicked man to live
in his sms, and at the same time go on his way rejaidngi
W hite then is the moral power Umvetsalism? The
yfifeQfitjyf*ett> of Deism beam leaxnte d
A G AINST I T S E L F .
restraint, connected with Universalism, and at the same
time does not hold out such infinite inducements to
prompt men to practice iniquity, as does the system we
are opposing, as will be shown in another chapter. As
a philosopher or philanthropist, I should therefore feel
myself bound to preach unadulterated Deism in prefer­
ence to Uniyersmismi
But what benefit, in point of punishment, do Univer-
salists expect their doctrine will be to men in general?
Cannot a sinner feel the compunctions of conscience
until a Universalist preacher tells him how bad his con­
science will goad him? If not, then for nearly eighteen
hundred years of the Christian dispensation, before Ho-
sea Ballou made his important discovery, there was no
such thing as punishment in existence! But if sinners
can feel the sting of remorse just as sensibly without un­
derstanding the theory of Universalism as with it, then
where is the necessity of preaching the doctrine? It
saves no one from punishment. It holds forth no pun­
ishment, except that which the sinner understood just as
well before. It takes no one to heaven, and saves no
one in any sense, except the preacher perhaps from star­
ving! Methinks the power of Universalism is not so
much moral as physical.
But the great truth relative to this whole subject, and
one of which Universalists appear to be entirely igno­
rant, is, that remorse of conscience, or anguish of mind,
arises from the fear of God. Accordingly, in proportion
to the amount that a man fears God, will be his guilt of
conscience when he commits a sin: and if a man has be­
come utterly destitute of fear, he must necessarily have
no remorse, let him do what he will. Now all that is
necessary, in order to effectually sift Universalism, is to
show that some men are destitute of fear. Paul speak­
ing of the character of wicked men, says: 4
4Their feet
are swift to shed blood; destruction and misery are in
their ways, and the way of peace they have not known,
there is nofea r o f God before their eyes”
18.] Such characters must necesaariVy «A
U N I VERBA LISM
all remorse, and hence, if the guilt of conscience be the
punishment for sin, then Universalists are bound to ad­
mit, not only that myriads of wicked men go to heaven
without any punishment; but that all a man has to do to
get clear of punishment, is to persevere in the practice
of iniquity, until he becomes so outrageously wicked as
to have no fear of God before his eyes! Then he is
clear of all remorse, and consequently of all punish­
ment, if Universalism be true! And as this doctrine
teaches, that God is a being who is not to*be f eared, it
follows that no mem will fear Ged, if he believes in
Universalism, and hence, let this be the prevailing doc­
trine and remorse of conscience will come to a perpetual
end.
But another difficulty facing this theory, will be seen
in the fact, that the scriptures every where hold out the
idea that God is to punish the sinner; but, according to
this hypothesis, the sinner punishes him self by making
his conscience goad him; and thus the Lord has no hand
in the matter! The Psalmist says, that 4
4the wicked
shall be turned into hell.” [Ps* & 17«} If a guilty con­
science be the hell, threatened against the wicked, then
the only way the wicked can be turned into hell, as the
Indian told the Universalist, is to be turned wrong side
out! If the punishment for sin be no more than the
compunctions of conscience; and if, as Universalism
teaches, sinners are bound to suffer all the punishment
that their sins deserve, I see not what need we have of
a Saviour; for a man’s conscience, according to this
theory, is his God, hell and Saviour, and could have an­
swered every purpose, as well without the death and
sufferings of Christ as with them.
It is certainly a most singular and unaccountable fact,
if all the fearful denunciations and threatenings of the
bible, against sinners, be no more than a little remorse
of conscience, which nine-tenths of the wicked would
rather endure eternally, than go to heaven the best way
you could fix it. The everVasUtv^destruction,”—4
4lake
o ffire and brimstone,”—* aeconddea.t\\”—*
A G A IN S T I T S E L F .
nation,” — tt fiery indignation,” — u everlasting punish-
ment,”—“ day of judgment, and perdition of ungodly
men,” etc., etc., are all, according to Universalism, in­
side of the sinner; and strange to tell, more than one
half of them know nothing about it!
Universalism teaches that this present time is all the
day of judgment there is, or ever will be. But. accord­
ing to this view of the subject, is it not most remarkably
singular, that hundreds and thousands have lived all their
lives in the practice of wickedness, and have died and
gone into eternity, without having the least intimation,
that they had passed through the day of judgment, and
perdition of ungodly men; but were always looking for
it ahead? Yes, if Universalists had told them, that they
were then in the lake of fire and brimstone, suffering the
everlasting destruction and eternal damnation of which
the scriptures speak, they would have called such preach­
ers a set of fools. What! we suffering everlasting pun­
ishment in the fire prepared for the devil and his angels,
and not feel it? Away with such nonsense! It must be
admitted by all, that the penalties annexed to the laws
of God should be as much severer than those inflicted in
any human government, righteously administered, as the
laws of God -are superior to those of man. And there
must necessarily be as much difference between the laws
of God and the laws of man, as between the authorities
by which they are established. Now suppose the laws
and penalties of a State government such, that a crimt*
nal, for the most vile and outbreaking offense, could be
arraigned before the judgment seat,—tried,—condemn­
ed,—sentenced,—and executed,—and never know that
any thing under the heavens had happened him! what
would such a government come to? Would it lead the
abandoned, profligate wretch, to fear and tremble at the
awful calamity that would come upon him, which would
be so terrible and dreadful that he would pass through
it all, and never know nor dream that any thing had
hurt him?!
Again: It isf a fact worthy of observation^tivaX toen
2*
294 UNIVERSA LISM
may become so wicked, that they will experience more
anguish of mind when they do right than when they do
wrong. Mark that miser, wallowing in wealth, which
he has wrung, with a tyrant’s grasp, from the tears and
groans of widows and orphans. The poor are crushed
beneath his feet, and those from whom he had wrench­
ed the last farthing of all their earthly support, are
thrown out upon the charity of a cold and merciless
world, whilst their proud and cruel oppressor is revel­
ing in all the pomp and grandeur of a monarch’s palace,
and feasting upon the dainties and luxuries of distant
lands; but, strange as it may appear, he is all the time in
hell torment, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire, and
has never lost an hour’s sleep on that account! Whilst
the honest poor, who have been robbed of their hard-
earned living, and are starving in their naked cabins, are
now, according to Universalism, “ eating of the tree of
life, that is in the midst of the paradise of God.” If this
be the incorruptible inheritance, promised in the gospel,
what an inducement to the saints! But that tyrant is in
hell! Yes, and what better could you please a wicked
man, than to threaten him with just such a hell as that!
But I remarked, that it would cause such an one more
anguish of mind to do right than to do wrong* I appeal
to the good sense of the candid to decide, if the thought
of giving up to the widow and fatherless that which he
had taken from them wrongfully, would not cause him
more unhappy feelings and anguish of soul, than to keep
what he had, and get more in the same way! Whilst
he thinks of nothing except hoarding up gold and silver,
he rests contented; but when he receives intelligence
that he must restore to the poor their earnings which he
had kept back by fraud; his countenance changes, sleep
flees from his eye-lids, and he pines under sorrow ana
distress* But what’s wrong! Why, the poor fellow has
to come up to the work, and do that which is lawful and
right, and it breaks his heart, and almost grieves him to
death!
But conscience cannot be a numaVex ot
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 380
the fact that it is more severe under some circumstances)
than others, even when the crimes are exactly the same*
For example: a practical highway robber murders a man
and takes his money. He nas followed the business for
years, and has become so habituated to cruelty that his
conscience no longer upbraids him; and he has no more
remorse for murdering a man, if he is certain it will not
be divulged, than for killing a serpent. Accordingly he
secures*the victim of his savage cruelty, in such.a man«
ner as precludes all possibility of discovery, and he is
seen strutting the streets as independently, and as little
conscience-smitten, as though his hands were pure from
the blood of all men* But suppose just as he had per­
petrated this horrible deed, he should be arrested and
Drought to justice, and hear his sentence to hang by the
neck till he was dead, dead! He is then thrust into
prison to await that awful crisis. But O, the terror and
dismay that now takes possession of his bosom, and the
fearful forebodings of the awful destiny that awaits him,
which now rake up his guilty soul! His conscience,
which so long had slumbered, is now aroused, and lashes
the wretch with scorpion stings of guilt, whilst within
him is kindled afire of the keenest anguish! But all
this suffering, let it be observed, resulted from the mere
accident of his being arrested. But had not this cir­
cumstance occurred, he would, as a matter of course,
have escaped all this inexpressible anguish; and had he,
at some future period, have fallen instantly dead, he
would thus, according to Universalism, have escaped ail
punishment, and as no man can be forgiven till he is
punished, he would consequently have been launched in­
to eternity in his sins! And as he cannot be punished
there, he must therefore remain in his sins eternally,
and consequently remain eternally under the sentence
of condemnation! This is the inevitable result, admit­
ting the truth of the Universalist theory relative to the
compunctions of conscience!
But the scriptures clearly teach, that the wicked {at*
better in this world than the rigjkoWMU YrftfiY
996 UNIVER8ALI6M
afflictions and persecutions of the righteous, enumerated
by the apostle m the Uth of Hebrews: “And others had
trials of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of
bonds and imprisonments: they were stoned, they were
sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword,
they wandered about in sheep-skins and goat-skins, be­
ing destitute,afflicted, and tormented” [Heb. 11. 36,37.]
Tne Psalmist declares: “ Many are the afflictions of the
righteous” [Ps. 34. 19*] But how is it with the wick­
ed? The Psalmist shall answer: “ For I was envious at
the foolish, when I saw theprosperity of the wicked.—
They are not in trouble as other men, [righteous men of
course,] neither are they plagued like other men.—Their
eyes stand out with fatness, they have more that heart
could wish. They are corrupt and speak wickedly con­
cerning oppression, they speak loftily: they set their
mouth against the heavens. Behold these are the un­
godly who prosper in the world.” [Ps. 73. 3, 5-9, 12.]
It is true, as says the prophet, that the wicked, before,
their consciences became seared, are like the troubled
sea when it cannot rest, whose waves cast up mire and
dirt# and also that there is no peace to the wicked, whilst
in this condition. But it is also true, that when the
wicked become conscience-seared, and past feeling re­
morse,they “ have pleasure in unrighteousness.”[2 Thes.
2.12.] It is true tnat they “ enjoy the pleasures of sin ”
[Heb. 11. 25.] It is true that they “ count it pleasure to
riot in the day-time,—sporting themselves with their own
deceiving.” [2 Pet. 2. 13.] It is true that they “ have
lived in pleasure upon the earth, and been w a n to n and
that thev are “ lovers of pleasure more than lovers of
God.” [Jam. 5. 5. 2 Tim. 3.4.] It is true, that with such
characters, “ wickedness is sweet” and “ their rejoicing
is to devour the poor secretly.” [Job. 20. 12. Hab. 3.
14.] It is true that “ they delight in lies,”—that “ their
soul deligkteth in their abominations” that “ they rejoice
to do evil”and that they “ not only do the same, but have
pleasure in them that do them.” 62. 4. Is. 66. 3.
Prov. 2. 14. Rom. 1. AudwHa Vme
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 297
be just men, unto whom it happeneth according to the
work of the wicked: again there be wicked men to whom
it happeneth, according to the work of the righteous.”
[Eccl. 8. 14.] Thus we discover that the righteous in
this world are compelled to endure all manner of af­
flictions, and privations; and many times to receive the
reward due for the works of the wicked; whilst the
wicked rejoice to do evil, delight in lies and abomina­
tions,—and have pleasure in unrighteousness! If this
be the manner in which God rewards the righteous for
their good deeds, and punishes the wicked for their evil
deeds, then no rational man can look upon the moral
government of God as any thing better than a system
of shere hypocrisy and injustice.
But Anally, we take the position, that compunctions
of conscience, let them be experienced to ever so great
an extent, are not punishment at all; and that Univer-
salists must therefore admit that the wicked are punish­
ed in the future state of existence, or else deny punish­
ment in toto; and thus strip the disguise from their doc­
trine, and give us what we ought to have had long ago,
—ir unmasked!
T a difference between the punishment for sin,
and the natural effect of sin, and more than this, the
natural, or immediate effects of sin, are no where in the
bible spoken of, as the punishment which sin deserves.
We shall, therefore, present several arguments to prove
that compunctions, or remorse ofconscience, are not the
punishment for, but the natural effects of, sin!
The Jew, who broke the Sabbath by.picking up sticks,
had, doubtless, as much remorse of conscience, or an­
guish of mind, as any man can have now; yet this was
not his punishment,—he had to be stoned to death,—die
without mercy under two or three witnesses. This was
called “ a just recompense of reward.” [Heb. 2. 2.]—
Does God, at this time, punish sinners only with com­
punctions ofconscience, when, three thousand years ago,
he inflicted all that, and more than three VhovmrA
as much t Can God do this and be Vn\Tnn\»XXe\
298 UN 1V ER SA LISM
i
truth is, remorse of conscience was no punishment then,
neither is it now. If it is, then God is a respecter of ¡a
persons, a position which the apostle emphatically de- jc
nies. There have occurred only a few cases of divine "
punishment, under the Christian dispensation, such as h
the death of Herod, when the angel of the Lord smote <
him, and that of Ananias and Sophira. [Acts 5. 5-10, i
12, 23.] But did not these individuals experience as
much remorse of conscience as do other sinners? And
is it not frequently the case, that sinners die suddenly
upon their beds, whilst enveloped in slumber, and thus
i'o into eternity without a groan or struggle ? Such cases
requently occur. Now if remorse of conscience be
punishment, and if the theory of Universalism be true,
then God is a respecter of persons, and punished Herod,
Ananias, and Sophira unjustly. If not, then Univer*
salists are bound to admit, according to their own logic,
that remorse of conscience is not punishment, and that |
the wicked, who now go into eternity with nothing but :
the upbraidings of a guilty conscience, will receive their
just deserts at the day of judgment, and the perdition of
ungodly men; and in admitting this, they will agree with
the apostle exactly: 4
4The Lord knoweth how to deliver
the ungodly out of temptations, and to reserve the un­
just unto the day of judgment to be punished.” [2 Pet
2. 9.1
When Christ said: 4
4These shall go away into ever­
lasting punishment,” he referred, according to Univer­
salism, to the Jews being driven away into captivity, at
the destruction of their city. Well, if they were then
driven away into punishment, it proves that remorse of
conscience was not punishment, for they had this, as
much as other sinners, long before their dispersion!
God has frequently threatened men that he would
punish them for their sins, after a certain lapse of time;
when, according to Universalism, he was punishing
them all the while, and they did not know it!
But it may be thought that the ^eace of mind, which
a righteous man enjpys,\s\ttsTevm&\exA\^eTL>^e^Masfc.
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 299
principle the anguish of mind which the wicked suffer,
is their punishment. Yes, one is just as certain as the
other; but neither of them is true. Isaiah tells us that
4
4the effect ofrighteousness, is quietness?' [Is. 32.17.] and
the Saviour, instead of teaching his disciples that they
received their reward in their consciences, points their
minds forward:4
4Great is your reward in h e a v e n and
taught those who performed acts of kindness and benev­
olence; in calling m to their feasts, the poor, the maimed,
the halt, and the blind, that they should be 4
4recom­
pensed at the resurrection of the just,” and not that their
recompense was the effect that those benevolent acts
had upon their consciences!
Sin may produce many effects, and we have a right
to infer one effect to be punishment for sin, as well as
another. Let us see. Suppose you get in a passion,
and strike your neighbor with an axe. It has produced
two effects: your conscience goads you, and your neigh­
bor is severely wounded. Now which effect is the pun­
ishment for sin? Not the one produced upon the wound­
ed man; for that would be punishing him for your offence.
This being true, there is no proof that the other effect
is punishment either. If you think there is, then look *
at another case. Suppose you strike that man with your
fist, instead of an axe;—the result is, the man gets a
moderate bruise, but by accident you break your arm*
In this case you did not commit as great a crime, as in
the other; yet you have to suffer inconceivably the most*
You not only have to suffer the lashings of a guilty con­
science, but the additional pain of a broken arm. If
the effect of. sin be the punishment for sin, then which
of these effects is the punishment? If either of them is,
then they both are; for it would be the extremity of non­
sense, to contend, that the effect upon the mind was
punishment, and that the effect upon the body was not?
But suppose they are both punishment; then the remorse
of conscience which you experienced as an effect of the
first crime was not just punishment; or eYse t\\e el-
tecta produced by the second crime were mote
800 U N IV E R S ALISM
tice demanded! But as Universalists contend that re*
morse of conscience is the full demand of justice, it *
lows that the other effect cannot be punishment; as we
have seen that one effect cannot be unless they both are1
. *
There is another substantial reason that can be as­
signed why remorse of conscience,or anguish of mind, is
not the punishment which God inflicts Tor sin. It is a <
truth, which Universalists themselves admit, that God i
never punishes the sinner after he forgives him. Now
look at the case of Mr. W., who, in a fit of intoxication,
murdered his brother Thomas. In an instant is laid dead
at his feet, the husband of an amiable and confiding
wife, and the father of six lovely children. No mortd
can paint, or even imagine, the inexpressible grief which
now takes possession of the hearts of that bereaved fam­
ily; The man awakes from his rum, and beholds the
outrageous crime he has perpetrated. He looks upon ,
that heart-broken, and disconsolate widow, and those J
bereaved orphans, whose cries and lamentations pierce
the wretch to the inmost recesses of his heart. O, had
he ten thousand worlds, he would most gladly and wil-
lingly give them all, could he but undo that dreadful
- act. But alas, it is too late! That deed cannot be re­
called, and its effects must remain, not only upon that
afflicted family, but also upon the heart of that cruel
wretch as long as life shall last. Although he may re­
form his life, and become a pious and devoted Christian,
and consequently his sins all be forgiven; yet that effect
remains; and although God has, as a matter of course,
ceased to punish him, if he ever punished him at all; still
that anguish of soul remains; and at every sight of that
distressed family, whose happiness he had wantonly de­
stroyed for life, his sweetest reflections are mingled with
the bitter dregs of sorrow and regret! This proves be­
yond all controversy, that the effect which sin produces
upon the mind of the sinner, is not the punishment for
his sins; for none dare contend that God wiW punish a
man for his sins after those sms axe forewent
Having thus shown thal there eraaotV» ^
AG AINST I T S E L F . 301
as remorse of conscience experienced by any true be­
liever in Universalism,—that the theory of conscience-
punishment exhibits the most positive scheme of injus­
tice,—that it holds out the strongest conceivable induce­
ments to encourage the sinner to persevere in his wick­
edness, in order to get beyond punishment by becoming
conscience-seared,—that the wicked do absolutely pros­
per more in a worldly point of view, than the righteous,
and that they enjoy pleasure in unrighteousness,—and
finally, having shown that remorse of conscience, or an­
guish of mind, is not punishment for sin in any sense of
the word, it follows hence, that Universalists do not be­
lieve in punishment at all! This is a grave charge, I
admit, to prefer against any people, professing faith in
the word of God; nevertheless it is true; and for their
benefit especially, do I thus expose their infidelity; and
I pray God that they may receive it as it is presented,
in all kindness, and leave that muddy, rocky, snaggy
pond, and come out where they can have fair sailing
noon the broad ocean of consistency!
CHAPTER VIII.
T E S T I M O N Y O F O N B H U N D R E D W I T N E S S E S .
« h e r e b y k n o w w e t h e s p ir it o f t r o t h , a n d t h e s p ir it of
ERROR.”—1 John 4.6.
l t Bible: 4
4If any man serve me let him follow me; and
where lam, there shall also my servant be/’ [John
12. 26.]
Universalism: Where Christ is there shall also the
servant of the devil be!
2. Bible: 4
4Repent ve therefore and be converted, that
your sins may be blotted out.” [Acts 3. 19.]
Universalism: Your sins shall all be blotted out, wheth­
er you repent and be converted or not!
3. Bible:4
4Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the
prophecy of this book.” [Rev. 22. 7.]
Universalism: The man who disobeys every word in
this book, is just as certain of being blessed•as the
most obedient man on earth!
4. Bible! 4
4If any man serve me, him will my Father
honor.” [John 12. 26.]
Universalism: If any man serve the devil all His life,
him will the Father honor, with a seat at his own
right hand!
6* B ible:4
4The world p a s a e \ l v a w \oa\a
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . SOS
of, but be that doeth the will of God abideth for­
ever.” [1 John 2. 17.]
Universalism: There is to be no difference in the out-
J come between them who do the will of God, and
those who do the will of the devil!
6. Bible:4
4That ye may be counted worthy of the king­
dom of God, for which ye also suffer.” [2 Thes. 1.
5.]
Universalism: All shall be counted worthy of the
kingdom of God, whether they suffer for it or not!
7« Bible: 44For many walk, of whom I have told you
often, and now.tell you even weeping, that they are
the enemies of the cross of Christ, whose end is de-
destruction.” [Phil. 3. 18,19.]
Universalism: For many walk, of whom I have told
you often, and now tell you even laughings that al­
though they are the enemies of the cross of Christ,
yet their end is salvation!
8« Bible: 4
4And being made perfect, he became the au­
thor of eternal salvation, to all them that obey him.”
[Heb. 5. 9.]
Universalism: And being madjs perfect he became the
author of eternal salvation to all them that disobey
him!
0. Bible:4
4Wherefore my beloved brethren:—work out
your salvation with fear and trembling.” [Phil. 2.
12.]
Universalism: Wherefore my beloved brethren, you
‘
shall all have salvation whether you work or not!
And as for fearing and trembling there is no neces­
sity for it, as you are certain of salvation, let you
do what you will!
10« Bible: 44He that believeth and is baptized shall be
saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned.”
[Mark 16. 16.]
Universalism: He that believeth and is baptized shall .
be saved, and he that believeth not shall be!
11,Bible: 4
4To the*weak became 1 as \
might gain the weak, I am made ^
804 U N IV E R S A L IS M
men, that I might by all means save some*” [1 Cor.
9. 22.]
Universalism: What was all that for Paul? when all
were certain of salvation (not some) without all that
trouble!
12« Bible: 4
4There remaineth therefore a rest to the
people of God.” [Heb. 4. 9>]
Universalism: There remaineth therefore a rest to
the people of the devil, as well as to the people of
God!
13. Bible: 4
4The Lord knoweth how to deliver the
godly out of temptation, and reserve the unjust un­
to the day of judgment to be punished.” [2 Pet. 2.
9.]
Universalism: The Lord knoweth how to deliver the
godly out of temptation, and reserve the unjust un­
to the resurrection to be savedl
14. Bible:4
4He that overcometh shall inherit all things,
and 1 will be his God, and he shall be my son.”—
[Rev. 21. 7.]
Universalism: 4
4He that does not overcome, shall in­
herit all things, and 1 will be his God, and he shall
be my son if he die*as wicked as Nero!
15. Bible: 4
4For this ye know that no whoremonger,
nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an
idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of
Christ, and of God.” [Eph. 5. 5.]
Universalism: For this ye know, that all whoremon­
gers, and unclean persons, and all covetous idol­
aters, are just as certain of an inheritance in the
kingdom of Christ and of God, as they are certain
of being raised from the dead!
16. Bible: 4
4Blessed are they that do his command^
ments, that they may have right to the tree of life,
and may enter in through the gates into the city.”
[Rev. 22. 14.1
Universalism: Blessed are they that do not his com­
mandments, for they shaU have right to the tree of
life, and enter in through the gate*vu\o >3ae
AG A IN ST I T S E L F .
17. Bible: 4
4When lust hath conceived it bringeth forth
sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death.”
[Jam. 1« 15.]
Universalism: Lust when it hath conceived, bringeth
forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth
eternal life!
18. Bible: 4
4Blessed are the merciful, for they shall ob­
tain mercy*” [Math. 5. 7.]
Universalism: Blessed are the unmerciful, for they
shall obtain mercyi
19. Bible:4
4Blessed are they that hear the word of God,
and keep it.” [Luke 11* 28.]
Universalism: Blessed are they that hear the word of
God, and disobey it!
20. Bible: 4
4Blessed are they which do hunger and
thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled.”
[Math. 5. 6.]
Universalism: Blessed are they that do not hunger
and thirst after righteousness, for they shall also be
filled!
21. Bible:4
4Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit
the earth.” [Math. 5. 5.]
Universalism: Blessed are the wicked, for they shall
inherit heaven!
22« Bible: 4
4Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is
the kingdom of heaven.” [Math. 5. 3.]
Universalism: Blessed are the proud in spirit, for theirs
is heaven itself, and that is better still!
23. Bible:4
4Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall
be comforted.” [Math. 5. 4.]
Universalism: Blessed are they that will not mourn,
for they shall be comforted!
24. Bible: 4
4Blessed are the peace makers, for they
shall be called the children of God.” [Math. 5. 9.]
Universalism: Blessed are the quarrelsome, for they
shall be called the children of God!
25« Bible: 4
4Blessed are they that are persecuted for
rigbinsagflegg* sake, for theirs is me
heaven” iMaih. 6 .10.]
906 U N IV E R S A L IS M
Universalism: Blessed are those who persecute the
righteous, for theirs is the kingdom of glory!
26. Bible:44Blessed are the pure in heart, tor they shall
see God." [Math. 5. 8.]
Universalism: Blessed are the impure in heart, for
they shall see God,as certain as fate!
27* Bible:4
4And we know that all things work together
for good to them that love God.” [Rom. 8. 28.]
Universalism; And we know that all things wilt work
together (and be overruled) for good to all men,
whether they love God or not!
28. Bible: 4
4He that believeth not the Son»shall not see
life.” (John $. 36.)
Universalism: He that believeth not the Son, shall see
eternal life, no mistake about it!
20. Bible:4
4Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord,
we persuade men.” (2 Cor. 5. 11.) »
Universalism: Knowing therefore that God will save
every body, we let them do just as they please!
30. Bible: 441 press towards the mark, for the prize of
the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.” (Phil. 3.14.)
Universalism: I will not press towards the mark foi
the prize; as I am just as sure of it without pressings
as I am with it!
8 1. Bible: 4
4But these, as natural brute beasts, made to
be taken and destroyed.” (2 Pet. 2. 12.)
Universalism: These, although as natural brute beasts,
are nevertheless made to be taken and saved!
32« Bible: 44Blessed is the man that endureth tempta­
tions for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown
of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that
love him.” (James 1. 12.)
Universalism: Blessed is the man thnidoes not endure
temptation, for whether he is tried or not, he shall
receive a crown of life, which the Lord has prom­
ised to them that hate him!
33. Bible: 441 am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ,
for it is the power of God wrAo to every
one that believeth.” (Jtom.
AGAINST IT SEL F. SO
T
Universalism: I am not ashamed of the gospel of
Christ, for all that are not saved by this means, will
. be saved by some other; and hence we are safe any
how!
84« Bible: “ If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the
Lord Jesus, and believe in thy heart, that God
hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved,"
(Rom. 10. 9.)
Universalism: If thou shalt deny with thy mouth the
Lord Jesus, and disbelieve in thy heart that God
hath raised him from the dead, and even die in this
condition, still thou shalt be saved!
35« Bible: “ Search the scriptures; for in them ye think
ye have eternal life, ana they are they that testify
of me: and ye will not come unto me that ye might
have life.” [John 5. 39, 40.]
Universalism: You shall all have eternal life, whether
iou come unto me or not!
lible: “ With the merciful, thou wilt show thyself
merciful.” [Ps. 18. 25.]
Universalism: With the unmerciful thou wilt show
thyself merciful!
37. Bible: “ From men of the world which have their
portion in this Ufe.n [Ps. 17. 14.1
Universalism: The men of the world have as great a
portion in the next life as any other men!
38 Bible: “ The wicked is driven away in his wicked- *
ness, but the righteous hath hope m his death.”—
[Prov. 14. 32j
Universalism: The righteous have no more hope in
his death, than the wicked, that is, if the wicked
only understand Universalism, for all are equally
safe after they die!
39. Bible “ When the wicked spring up as the grass,
and when all the workers oi iniquity do flourish, it
is that they shall be destroyed forever.” [Ps. 22. 7.]
Universalism: When the wicked spring up as the
grass* andm
when all the workers of \mcfnVj ddfasax-
ish; it is that they may be saved fotcvevX
I
Mt UNI VERBALISM
40. Bible: 4
4The wicked shall be turned into hell, with
all the nations that forget God." [Ps. 9. 17.]
Universalism: The wicked shall be turned into heav­
en with all the nations that forget God!
41. Bible: 4
4He that being often reproved, hardened!
his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and thattr&A-
oui remedy” (Prov. 29. 1.)
Universalism: He that being often reproved harden­
e d his neck, shall suddenly be saved, and that with­
out injury. Or, if he be destroyed in his sins, it is
not without remedy, for the resurrection will prove
an effectual panacea!
42. Bible: “ Mara the perfect man, and behold the up­
right: for the end of that man is peace.” [Ps. 37. 37.1
Universalism: Mark the imperfect man, and behold
the downright ruffian, for the end of that man is !
E
eace!
iible: 4
4But the transgressors shall be destroyed
together; the end of the wicked shall be cut off9
(Ps. 37. 38.)
Universalism: But the transgressors shall be savedto
*
fether; the end of the wicked shall be eternal life!
lible: 4
4Precious in the sight of the Lord, is the
death of his saints.” (Ps. 116. 15.)
Universalism: Precious in the sight of the Lord, is
the death of his sinners; for they are all his, and j
will be saved together: hence the death of sinners, |
is equally as precious in the sight of the Lord, as i
the death of saints!
46. Bible: 4
4To him that ordereth his conversation
aright, will I show the salvation of God.’9 (Ps. 50.
23.)
Universalism: To him that does not order his conver­
sation at all, or that orders it wrong, will I show
the salvation of God!
40. Bible: 4
4For whosoever shall call upon the name
of the Lord shall be saved.” (Rom. 10. 13.)
Universalism: They sh&\\be \key call
upon the Lord or nol\
AGAINST IT SE L F.
7. Bible: “ It pleased God by the foolishness ofpreach­
ing to save them that believe.” (1 Cor. 1. SI.)
Universalism: It will please God without preaching,
' to save them that do not believe!
8« Bible: 4
4Whosoever believeth on him shall receive
remission of sms.” (Ac. 10. 43.)
Universalism: All mankind shall ultimately have re­
mission of sins, whether they believe on Christ or
not! For they are all to be saved,end they can’t
be saved in their sins!
9. Bible: “ In every nation, he that feareth God and
worketh righteousness, is accepted with him.” (Ac.
10. 35.)
Universalism: In every nation, he that feareth not
.God, and worketh unrighteousness, is accepted with
him!
0. Bible: 4
4
For as many as are led by the Spirit of
God, they are the sons of God.” (Rom. 5. 14.)
Universalism: As many as are led by the spirit of Dir
abolas, they are also the sons of God!
1. Bible: 4
4Come unto me all ye that labor, and are
heavy laden, and I will give you rest.” (Math. 11.
28.)
Universalism: Come unto me all ye that labor and
are heavy laden, or stay away from me, which ever
Sou please, and I will give you rest!
ible:4
4Take my yoke upon you and learn of me,
and ye shall find rest to your souls.” (Ibid. 29.)
Universalism: You shall find rest to your souls, ifyou
never learn of Christ, and if you utterly refuse to
take his yoke upon vou!
3« Bible: “ Kepent ana be baptized every one of you,
in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of
sins.” (Ac. 2. 38.)
Universalism: You shall have remission of sins with­
out repentance, baptism, or any act of obedience
whatever!
4. Bible: u JPAatmust I do to be save&V
Universalism: Answer: Nothing aw'-
»10 U N I V E R B A LISM
9ft* Bible: «Are there m that be saved?” (Luke 13.
23.) 1
Universalism: Answer: Not a few, but a l l !
50. Bible: «Know ye not that the unrighteous shad
not inherit the kingdom of God?” (1 Cor. 6. 9.)
Universalism: Answer: No, I did not know it!
57. Bible: “ What is a man advantaged, if he should
gain the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast
away?” (Luke 9. 25.)
Universalism: Answer: He would be cast into heaven,
and there he would find himself, so that it would be
a great advantage in the outcome, foe a man to
lose himself and be cast away!
58. Bible: «Good Master: what'good thing shall Ido
that I may have eternal life?” (Math. 19. 16.)
Universalism: No good thing at all; you shall have it
anyhow!
60. Bible: «What shall the end be of them that obey
not the gospel of God?” (1 Pet. 4. 17.)
Universalism: Answer: Their end shall be everlasting
salvation!
60. Bible: «What shall it profit a man, if he shall gain
the whole world and lose his own soul?” (Matthew
16. 26.)
Universalism: Answer: He shall gain his own soul 1
back again; and get immortality and eternal life to j
boot!
61. Bible: «If the righteous scarcely be saved, where
shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?” (1 Pet.
4. 18.1
Universalism: Answer: They shall appear in the pres­
ence of God, where there is fullness of joy; and at
his. right hand, where there are pleasures forever
more!
62. Bible:« How shall we escape if we neglect so great
salvation?” t(Heb. 2. 3.)
Universalism: Answer: Easy enough; by slipping the
halter around our necks, and «srinqja% into paras
(Use!
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 411
3. Bible: “ Wo unto you that are rich, for ye have
received your consolation,” (Luke 6, 24.)
Universalism: Blessed are you that are rich, for you
shall have an abundance of consolation in the next
world, besides all you have in this!
Bible: “ Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is
your reward in heaven.” (Math. 5.12.)
Universalism: You need not rejoice, expecting a re­
ward in heaven; for all the reward you will ever
get, will be here on earth!
5. Bible: “ Wherefore he is able also to save them to
the uttermost, that come unto God by him.” (Heb.
7. 25.)
Universalism: Wherefore he is able also to save to
the uttermost, those that will not come unto God,
just as easily as those that will come!
6. Bible: “ We pray you in Christ’s stead, be ye re­
conciled to God.” (2 Cor. 5. 20.)
Universalism: We inform you by the authority of
Christ, that if ye will not be reconciled to God, you
shall be, any how; for he is going to reconcile all
things unto himself, whether they are willing or not!
7. Bible: “ Not the hearers of the law are just before
God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.”—
(Rom. 2.13.)
Universalism: The hearers of the law, the doers of the
law, and the breakers of the law, shall all be justified
together!
8. Bible: “ Wide is the gate, and broad is the way that
leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go
in thereat.” (Math. 7. 13.)
Universalism: Wide is the gate, and broad is the wav
that leads to glory> and none there are, who will
notjgQ in thereat!
9. Bible: “ For here have we no continuing city, but
we seek one to come.” (Heb. 13. 14.)
Universalism: Here have we no continuing city, but
we shall have one to come, whether w*
or not!
it* U n i t e r s a l i s m
70. Bible: 4
4Then shall he say also unto them on the
left hand, depart from me ye cursed, into everlast­
ing fire, prepared for the devil and his angels.”—
(Math. 25. 41.)
Universalism: Through this 4
4everlasting fire,” which
was at the destruction of Jerusalem, the 4
4cursed”
the devil and his angels, and a l l shall depart safely
into everlasting glory!
71. Bible: 44Litt!e children let no man deceive you; he
that doeth righteousness is righteous even as he is
righteous.” (1 John 3. 7.)
Universalism: Little children, let no man among the
orthodox deceive you: he that doeth unrighteous­
ness, shall be as certainly righteous, as though he
did righteousness all his life.
72. Bible*. “ Layup for yourselves treasures in heav­
en.” (Math. 6. 2Q.)
Universalism: You shall all have treasures in heaven,
whether you lay up any there, or not!
73. Bible: “ Whosoever therefore shall confess me be­
fore men, him will I confess also, before my Father
which is in heaven.” (Math. 10. 32.)
Universalism: Whosoever therefore shall deny me
before men, and shall die in the Yefy act of blas­
pheming my name; him will 1 also confess as an
heir of salvation, before my Father in heaven!
74. Bible: “ Wherefore come out from among them
saith the Lord,—and touch not the unclean thing,
and I will receive you.” (2 Cor. 6. 17.)
Universalism: Stay in among them saith the Lord,
and touch all the unclean things on earth,nnd I will
receive you as freely, as though you should abstain
from all appearance of evil!
75.. Bible: “ Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ,and thou
shalt be saved.” (Acts 16. 31.)
Universalism: Believe on Jo Smith, Mohammed, the
devil; or believe nothing at all, and you shall be
saved!
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 31$
5. Bible: “ If ye forgive not men their trespasses, nei­
ther will your Father forgive your trespasses,”—
(Math.. 6. 15.)
Universalism: If ye forgive not men their trespasses,
and die with your hearts full of hatred and malice
towards your fellow mortals, your heavenly Father
will, notwithstanding, forgive your trespasses, or
take you to heaven in your sins, one or the other;
for you are bound to go there, at all hazards!
7. Bible: “ Now if any man have not the Spirit of
Christ, he is none of his.” (Rom. 8. 9.)
Universalism: All men are Christ’s, whether they have
his Spirit or not!
8. Bible: “ So then they which be of faith, are blessed
with faithful Abraham.” (Gal. 3. 9.)
Universalism: So then they which are unbelievers,and
die Atheists, are as certain of being blessed with
Abraham, as the most faithful man on earth!
9. Bibhe: “ Who shall tell thee words whereby thou
and all thy house shall be saved.” (Acts 11. 14.)
Universalism: He, and all his house could have been
saved,just as well without those words as with them!
0. Bible: “ With the mouth confession is made unto
salvation.” (Rom. 10. 10.)
Universalism: Salvation is absolutely certain without
confessing with the mouth, or any other act of obe­
dience !
1. Bible: “ Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord,
and he shall lift you up.” ^Jam. 4.10.)
Universalism: Exalt yours¿Ives in the sight of the
Lord, and he will lift yea up to heaven, as sure as
fate!
2. Bible: “ Wo unto the wicked, it shall be ill with
him.” (Is. 3. 11.)
Universalism: Peace unto the wicked, it shall be well
with him, for the more he sins, the sooner he will
get to heaven! •
3. Bible: “ Let me die the death of the
b t m y last end be like his.” (Nurtv. S3.
|14 U N I V E R B A L ISM j
Universalism: The last end of the righteous is no bet­
ter than the last end of the wicked! They are ex­
actly alike!
84. Bible: “ To present you holy, and unblamable, and
unreprovable in his sight, i f ve continue in the faith.”
(Col. 1. 23.) # |
Universalism: You shall all be presented holy, and 1
t unblamable, and unreprovable in the sight of God,
if you deny the faith, and turn out to be worse than
infidels!
85. Bible: “ If a man also strive for masteries, yet is he .
not crowned except he strive lawfully.” (2 Tim. '
2. 5.) I
Universalism: All men will be crowned with immor­
tality, if they strive unlawfully, or if they strive not
at all! I
80« Bible: “ So run that ye may obtain.” (1 Cor.9.24.)
Universalism: All mankind shall obtain the incorrup­
tible crown, if they never run a step!
87. Bible: “ Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my j
way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your
sins; whither I go ye cannot come.” (John 8. 21.) 1
Universalism: You shall all die in your sins, of course,
but that makes no difference, for whither I go (that
is to heaven) you shall certainly come!
88. Bible: “ Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord.1
7
(Rev. 14. 13.) ,
Universalism: Blessed are the dead that die in their *
sins!
80. Bible: “ God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace
unto the humble.” (Jam. 4. 6.)
Universalism: God will bless the proud, and give grace ,
to the wicked!
80« Bible: “ And shall utterly perish in their own cor»
ruption.” (2 Pet. 2. 12.)
Universalism: They shall be eternally saved out of all j
their corruption, even if they die in it! |
P I . Bible: “ Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh |
to you.* (Jas.4. &) ¡
A G A IN S T I T S E 1 F . *4«
Universalism: God will draw high to you, whether
you draw nigh to himor not!
2« Bible: 4
4Be diligent that ye may be found of him
in peace, without spot, and blameless.” (2 P et 3« 14.)
Universalism: You shall all be found of him in peace,
and shall not be blamed, if you are as spotted as
leopards.
9m Bible: 4
4To declare, I say, at this time^hisrighteous­
ness; that he might be just, and the justiier of him
that belreveth in Jesus.” [Rom. 3. 26.]
Universalism: God would be unjust and cruel, did he
not justify unbelievers and all, without exception!
tm Bible: “I f we confess our sins, he m faithfal and
just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from
all unrighteousness.” (1 John 1. 9.)
Universalism: If we will not confess our sins, yet he
would be unjust if he did not forgive them; and he
will ultimately cleahse us from all unrighteousness,
let us do die very worst we can!
5m Bible: 4
4Humble yourselves therefore under the
mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due
time.” (1 P et 5. 6.)
Universalism: God will exalt you in due time to a seat
in glory, just as much without humbling youselves
as though you do; for the proud and the meek shall
be saved and exalted to the same station!
5. Bible: 44Shall we not much rather be in subjection
to the Father of Spirits and live?” (Heb. 12. 9.)
Universalism: We shall all live, and that too, in end­
less felicity, whether we are in subjection to the
Father of Spirits or not!
7« Bible:4
6If ye live after the flesh ye shall die; but
if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the
body, ye shall live.” (Rom. 8. 13.)
Universalism: If ye live after the flesh, God doth
know that ye shall net Surely die, and if ye through
the spirit of the devil do gratify the deeds of the
body, ye shall live any how!
B
UBible: “Raging waves of the see*
SI* UK1 VERBALISM
their own shame; wandering stars, to whom i?re­
served the blackness ofdarkness forever.” (Jude 13.)
Universalism: Those raging waves of the sea are
rolling on towards heaven, at every heave; and to
those wandering stars is reserved the blissful pres­
ence of God and the Lamb forever!
99. Bible: 4
4Wherefore the rather, brethren, give dili-
fence to make your calling and election sure.” (2
>eW1. 10.)
. Universalism: You need give no diligence concern­
ing your election, for that is unalterably fixed, and
the whole human family are unconditionally elect­
ed for eternal life; no man therefore can make his
election sure by giving diligence!
100, Bible: 4
4Blessed is he that readeth, and they that
hear the words of this prophesy, and keep those
things that are written therein.” (Rev, 1. 3.)
Universalism: Blessed are they that will not r e a d ^
that will not hear, and that will not keep the com­
mandments which are written in this book; for they
shall all be made like unto the angels of God,
whether they are counted worthy to obtain that '[
world or not! ^
CHAPTER IX.
D E B A T E ON T H E PERFECTIO N S AND A T T R IB U T E S
OF D E IT Y .
BETWEEN ALPHA AND OMEGA.
«CAN8T THOU BT SEARCHING FIND OUT GOD? CANST THOU FIND
OUT THE ALMIGHTY TO PRRFECTION?"-Job 1L 7.
[The following is a fair representation of the facts and
arguments adduced in the discussion, which were taken
down and reported, exactly as they were delivered, by
the disputants. We shall express no opinion, with re
gard to the merits of the discussion, but let each readei
decide for himself, after giving the matter a thorough
examination.—A. H.]
ALPHA’S FIRST SPEECH. •
Ge n t l e m e n M o d e r a t o r s, a n d F e l l o w -c it iz e n s :
A question of deep and thrilling interest, is about to
elicit the attention of this large and intelligent audience:
“Can a Universal Salvation of Adam’s race be proved
from the attributes of God?” This is the question; and,
as you perceive, your present speaker takes the affirma­
tive. I profess td be an advocate forthe final holiness and
happiness of all mankind, irrespective of any condvtxon
to be performed in this life. I feel strong, and
110 UNITERS ALISM
fortified in the question now pending, knowing the tent'
Ueness of the ground I occupy. I take the attribute»
and perfections of Deity as my exclusive source of posi­
tive evidence in this controversy not, however, giving
up the direct teaching of the scriptures, in favor of uni­
versal salvation; yet 1 am bound to confess, that we Uni*
versalist preachers, by making every thing figurative,
which appears to militate against us, have somewhat
crippled and nullified our arguments from that source.
For it is .evident that our opponents, by adopting the
same logic, can make all our proofs figurative, as we do
theirs: and thus, from our own example, they may suc­
cessfully defy us to prove our doctrine, had we the most
positive testimony in the world!
But leaving that ground m the possession of my oppo­
nent, if he desire it, I expect to labor under no such em­
barrassments in the present question. I start out upon
fire admitted position, that God is unchangeable, the
same yesterday, to-day and forever, without any varia
Ueness, or shadow of turning. *This is the chief corner
stone of the edifice I am about to erect; and as this isnot
only an axiomatic position, but one which my opponent
will not dare to call in question; I feel as though I had
dug deep, and laid my foundation upon a rock. I have
no faith in this thing of limitarianism; for I believe that ,
God is infinite in power, wisdom, and goodness. The
scriptures are plain and positive upon this point, and as
my friend will no doubt admit it, there is no necessity for
quoting much scripture. One of the principle sins of the
children of Israel in the wilderness, was, that they lim
­
ited the Holy One of Israel.” [Ps.*78. 4U] Our oppo­
nents are daily guilty of committing the same sin; but w
e
are no Kmitarions. We believe with the Saviour that
« with God ad things are possible.” [Math. 10« 26.1 Hence
it is possible for God to save all men; and we shall endea­
vor to prove from several considerations, before we close
the present investigation, that such will be the glorious
result. Before taking my seat^ (as I wish at present
m erely to introduce the
AGAINST ITSELF. *19
lirect, and as I think unanswerable argument, in favor
of my position. God must have known before he created
man what would be his destiny: and if he created him,
knowing at the same time that he would be eternally
lost, he must have willed his destruction, and as God’s
will is that all shall be saved, he must have created none
therefore, only such as he knew would be saved; and if
le had foreseen that any one of his intelligent creatures
vould be finally lost, his omnipotence could, and his be-
levolence therefore would, have withheld his existence!
Here is my first positive argument, and I cannot see
how it can be possibly met. In the mean time, I shall
tear what can be said in reply.
OMEGA’S FIRST REPLY.
G e n t l e m e n M o d e r a t o r s, a n d r e s p e c t e d a u d ie n c e :
I feel truly the importance of the day’s labor before
us; and concur heartily with my friend, that this is a
question of momentous importance; that is, providing I
am on the right side of the question; but it my friend
should succeed in proving his side to be the true ground,
it is of but little consequence whether the question be
debated or not; for it can be the means of saving no one,
as all are as certain of salvation without this discussion,
as they can-be with it But if it be demonstrated, that
I occupy the correct ground, it may be the means of
some persons fleeing for refuge, and laying hold on the
hope set before them, who would otherwise have rested
supinely, in the false security of a delusive error;—think­
ing that all is safe and certain, with respect to the future;
and as regards the present short life,it is but little differ­
ence. Hence the importance of this day’s occasion is
wholly suspended upon the fact of my side of the ques­
tion being correct.
I agree with my opponent with regard to the un­
changeableness of God; but he will find this, I opiné, a
poor prop for Universalisai, and may possibly be glad to
take it back, before this discussion comes to a close*—
Me is quite libérai in dealing out the nam* Umfeoorvùé*»
UNIVERS ALISM
82Ó
and charging us very charitably with the sin of limiting tt
the Almighty; and yet, in almost the same breath, he k
commences telling what Godmust do, and what he must ¡
3
not do! We shall see,doubtless; before long, who have *
best claims to the title limitarían, they or us. My friend ¡
;
has been so long in the habit of garbling the word ofGod,
that he cannot debate the present question, I perceive,
without garbling his attributes. He takes power^ wis 3
dom, ;irui goodness; and says nothing about justice and 1
vengeance. These five attributes should not be separa« £
ted, but taken together, as they are all necessary to the 8
harmunious operations of the moral government of God. c
They each have a list of names in the scriptures signi- t
fying nearly the same thing; and are frequently used by 5
inspired writers interchangeably. When classified they )
stand thus: r
1. POWER: To this belong ‘omnipotence] ‘might! 5
4strength] and 4abilityP
2. WISDOM:----- 4knowledge] 4understanding¡
4perception] and 4discernmentP
3. GOODNESS:------4loving-kindness] ‘ mercy! ..
4long-suffering] ‘compassion] ‘pity] and 4benevolence/
4. J US'l ICE:--------4righteousness] ‘equity] 4
judg* .
merit] ‘truth] and 4
faithfulness] I
5. VENGEANCE:----- ‘wrath] ‘indignation] ‘ha- ¡
tred] ‘anger] ‘severity] ‘jealousy] and ‘fury-
This filth list, is an entire stranger to my opponent’s |
creed. I doubt exceedingly whether he has any faith ia
it, notwithstanding vengeance is more exclusively God’s
attribute than either of the other four; for whilst power,
wisdom, goodnessand justice, are attributed of God, they
are, at the same time, attributes ofman; and essentially
necessary for him to possess in order to comply with the
demands of God’s law. The relation which he sustains
towards God, and his fellow men, requires that he should
possess to some extent the attributes of power, wisdom, 1
goodness, and justice; but 4
4vengeance is mine, I will
repay, saith the Lord.” [Rom. 12. 19.] The great apos- 1
tie to the Gentiles has also vn \he samfe
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . m
bidden us to exercise this attribute in any case whatever;
because God is the rightful and exclusive owner of it* I
am perfectly willing that my friend should proceed with
his arguments; and I have no doubt, but that I can prove
a universal damnation, by the same logic he makes use
of to prove the position he now assumes.
Having thus premised, I shall now take notice of the
argument adduced, at the close of my friend’s address.
The gist of the argument is this: that God must have
known before he made man, what would be his destiny;
and hence, if he be finally lost, God wills his destruction;
or, in other words,' God must w ill or decree whatever
he foreknows will take place! This being the real
ground of my opponent, let us look at a few logical con*
elusions. Thus: ail manner of theft, debauchery, witch­
craft, emulation, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies,—all
kinds of fn licking, carousing, gambling, drunkenness,
profanity, and even blasphemy against the Holy Ghost,
are in exact accordance with the will of God; for, ac­
cording to the premises assumed by my opponent, God
must have known that all these abominations would be
practiced, and hence he must have willed that such con­
duct should exist;—if not, why did he create those indi­
viduals, knowing that they would be guilty of such abom­
inations? Yes, my audience, the only legitimate con­
clusion deducible from these premises, is: that all the
covetous, proud, boasters, implacable and unmerciful,—
that all blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful,
unholy, ungodly, profane,—truce breakers, incontinent,
fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady,
high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God,
murderers of fathers, and murderers of mothers, man-
stealers, liars, drunkards, sorcerers, and those that are
abominable, disobedient, and unto every good work rep­
robate;—the conclusion, I say, is unavoidable, that all
such abhorrable and detestable characters are daily en­
gaged in doing the good, acceptable, and perfect will of
God: for, according to Alpha’s argument,God musthwve.
known what would be their characters, awiVvYte
nst UNIVERSALISAI
designed, and trilled such to be their conduct, his omnip­
otence could, and his benevolence therefore would, have
prevented their existence! Christ says on one occasion:
4
4Whosoever shall do the trill of my Father in heaven,
the same is my mother, and sister, and brother” The
argument of my friend being correct, what a lovely and
excellent brotherhood Jesus Christ must possess!
I shall again hear my opponent either mend up his old
argument, or present a new one.
But before I take my seat, I wish to inform the audi­
ence that it is not my business, neither do I intend to
take any definite position upon this mysterious and un­
fathomable subject. I simply wish to show my friend,
that no important theory can be built, and no certain
conclusion can be drawn from such an incomprehensible
source as the attributes of God! It is unsafe and pre­
sumptuous, to risk so much upon such hypothetical as­
sumptions:
ALPHA’S SECOND SPEECH.
Fellow citizens: It is well for my friend that he made
the remark he did, just before taking his seat*—that he
did not intend to establish any definite positions, but
simply to raise difficulties and objections. This we can j
discover to be his object from the way he argues. But 1
have positions to establish, if not beyond quibble, at least
beyond successful refutation; and I expect in the mam, |
to sustain my ground, let my opponent raise as much
dust as he pleases.
As regards thé conclusion deduced from my premises, j
that God trills all manner of wickedness, I shall attend |
to that in due time, and prove that sin must exist ac­
cording to the will of God, or it could not exist at all.
Br. Rogers has argued that point successfully in the Pro
and Con, and proved that foreknowledge and foreordi­
nation imply the same thing; and as God must have
foreknown that men would practice wickedness, he
mast also have foreordained or decreed such to be the
A ct; but for no other purpose \\\an\.o\>%
A G A IN S T IT S E L F .
the good of the ¿inner* This is my faith exactly, as it is
the belief of all Universalists, east and west* I know of
no Universalist preacher who does not believe and
preach, that God designs to overrule sin, as well as mis­
ery, for the good of the transgressor*
As I am just now upon this point, I think it best, prob-
ably, to carry the argument a little farther. The truth
is, God is the author of sin; not directly, but through the
agency of man, who only does what God foreknew and
foreordained that he should do. This is clearly taught
in the bible. The apostle declares, that 4
4
All things are
of God.” [2 Cor. 5.18.] And the Lord himself declares
by the mouth of the prophet: 441 form the light, and cre­
ate darkness; I make peace, and create evil: I the Lord
do all these things.” [Is. 45. 7.] This is sufficient for
the present. God is not only here declared to be the
indirect author of sin, but it is here said, emphatically,
“I create evil,”—which is sin, and of course one of the
all things, which the apostle affirms to be 4
4of God ”—
My opponent will find this an exceedingly hard argument
to meet; but I presume he will try to twist along over
it, in some way.
The apparent difficulty presented at the close of his
speech is no difficulty at all. We have a right to reason
a priori, from what the attributes of God are, to what
they will necessarily lead him to do. This is logical,
and we intend to make good use of it in this discussion.
We shall now present an insurmountable argument:—
God is infinite in power, wisdom and goodness. 1. His
infinite goodness would prompt him to desire the endless
happiness of the whole human race. 2. His infinite
wisdom was sufficient to devise means adequate to bring
about the end desired; and 3. His infinite power was suf­
ficient to carry into effect the means which infinite wis­
dom had devised, so that the end prompted by infinite
goodness will be attained! This argument can also be
presented in another form, which will give it perhaps
more force. One of three grounds must beu.dm\\XaA\—
Either L God can save all men, but will not; ot
324 U N I V ERS A LISM
will save all men, but can not; or 3* God can save all men
and will save all men? If you take the first, and say he
can but will not, you limit his goodness* If you take the
second, and say he will, but can not, you limit his power;
but if you prefer the third, and say he can and will, you
have universalism, the very thing for which I am con­
tending! The whole argument in favor of universal sal­
vation is based upon the omnipotence of God. What
infinite benevolence can prompt, and infinite knowledge
can devise, infinite power can carry into exection; and
thus, in every way it can be turned, universal salvation
is the inevitable result. But I have argued the point
now, till I have got almost out of sight of my opponent,
and I had better probably rest till he overtakes me! I
wish the congregation, however, to take particular notice
of the manner in which my arguments are met.
OMEGA’S SECOND REPLY.
Gentlemen Moderators: In proceeding with this dis­
cussion, I have one suggestion to make, and one favor to
ask, since to elicit truth, is the object for which we have
convened on the present occasion. I do hope that my
opponent will not present too many points in one speech.
I wish to meet every argument, and my friend, no doubt,
is desirous to have the whole ground fairly canvassed;—
and he should know, as I presume he does, that to rebut
an argument requires more time than to present it, ad­
mitting the disputants to be on equal footing. This,
doubtless will be acceeded to. The audience will re­
member the conclusions which I deduced from his first
argument—that all manner of wickedness, and abomina­
tion was according to the will of God* This, you per­
ceive, he readily admits, and attempts to justify it, by the
assumption, that God is the author of sin, and that every
act a man performs, is in perfect accordance with the im­
mutable decree ofJehovah. This may be strange ground
to many in this audience; but, as my opponent remark­
ed, it is the ground of all standard authors, in the Uni-
versalist ranks. Had 1 not mad tan samn
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 325
*he Pro and Conrad some other standard works, I should
have been utterly astounded, in hearing, as 1 conceive,
such an unrighteous and pernicious sentiment, thus un-
blushingiy advocated 1 But I am not at all taken by
surprise. I am fully prepared, I think, for the system in
its worst forms. Yes! all that men do, is according
to the will of God! Christ says: “ Not every one that
saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom
of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which
is in heaven.” [Math. 7. 21.] No wonder my opponent
believes that all will be saved; for, according to his view,
let a man do what he will, he is doing the will of God,
and is consequently certain of the kingdom of heaven.
Is it not also unaccountably strange, that my friend
should reprove a man for getting drunk, as he did the
other day, when he knew the man was doing the will
of God,—the very thing that God had decreed, or foreor­
dained, from all eternity, that he should do; and which
he could no more have avoided than he could have
plucked the moon from her orbit?
God had foreordained, or decreed, according to this
doctrine, that Adam should eat of the forbidden fruit.—
Then it follows: 1. That God acted the hypocrite with
Adam, in trying to keep him from eating, when it was
his wül that he should eat. 2. That he acted the part
of a cruel tyrant, in punishing Adam for doing his will.
3. That the devil was a better friend to God than he
was to himself; for whilst God tried his best to keep
Adam from doing his will, the devil persuaded him to do
it. And, 4. That God commanded Adam not to eat, and
at the same time had decreed that he should eat;—thus
placing him between the horns of an unmerciful dilem­
ma, either to break God’s command or his decree/
My friend if strong in the belief, that foreknowledge
and foreordination imply the same thing; or, that when­
ever a thing is foreknown it is decreed. We shall at­
tend to this subject more fully by and by; but for the
{»resent we shall adduce one argument, to show thaA.C*c<L
a* foreknown certain things which he hnh tvo\
»26 U N 1V ER S ALISM
And in the first place, we take it for granted, that Christ,*
whose meet was to do the will of his Father, and to do
those things that were well-pleasing in his sight, could
not labor to break any of his Father’s decrees; yet we
have an abundance of evidence on hand, to prove that
he did both desire and labor to prevent a certain trans­
action from taking place, which he and his father both
knew would certainly come to pass, and which had been
predicted by a number of the prophets. I mean the de­
struction of Jerusalem: “ O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which
killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto
thee; how often would I have gathered thy children to­
gether, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings,
and ye would not* Behold your house is left unto you
desolate.” [Luke 13. 34, 35.J Thus, Christ labored to
prevent Jerusalem from being destroyed, which proves
that God had not decreed its destruction, although he
foreknew and predicted that such would be the case.
But “ God is the author of sin!” Let us examine this
for a few minutes* My opponent quotes in proof of this
position: “AU things are of Ood” But all what things?
Not all bad things, certainly: but all good things! The
same apostle asserts, that charity “ betieveth all things
[1 Cor. 13.7.] That is, all true things; for no one can sup­
pose that charity binds a man to believe a lie! Yet, the
way my friend argues, we should be led to that very con­
clusion* But let us see how the apostle John agrees with
my opponent: “All that is in the world, the lust of the
flesh, and the lust of the eye, and the pride of life, is
not o fthe Father.” [1 John 2.16.] Hence, the all things
which are of God, as I before observed, must be limited
to all good things, and ergo, does not include sin* “ Ev­
ery good gift, and every perfect gift, is from above, and
cometh down from the Father of lights.” j]Jam. t. 17.]
Does sin come down from the Father of lights? If so,
is it a good and a perfect gift? “ The fruit of the Spirit
is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness,
faithf meekness, temperance; against such there is no
Jaw,” [Gal. 5. 22, 23,] but no meu&on\a xoaAa ot sin, in
AGAINST IT SE L F. 3m
this list of all the fruits of the Spirit; and as sin is not of
the Spirit, it is not of God, for « God is a Spirit.” [John
4. 24.] But sin is a work of the flesh. « Now the works
of the flesh are manifest, which are these: adultery, for­
nication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witch­
craft, hatred, variance, emulation, wrath, strife, seditions,
murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like: of the
which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time
past^’ that they are all o f God? Nay, verily! My op­
ponent says they are; but Paul says: «that they which
do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.”
[Ibid. 19-21.] Thus the apostle contradicts Christ, by
teaching, that those who are guilty of the above conduct,
(which my opponent says is according to the will of
God,) shall not inherit the kingdom; and Christ affirms,
that those who do the will of God are the very ones who
shall be admitted into it! But my opponent may urge
that God is our Father, and is the author of all that we
do. But my bible informs me, that the father shall not
4
4bear the iniquity of the son.” [Ezek. 18. 20.] Yet my
friend wishes to throw the blame of all manner of wick­
edness upon the head of our heavenly Father! We are
informed in the scriptures, that4
4God hath made man
upright.” [Ec. 7. 29.] Did God make man an upright
sinner? Again we read: 4
4And God saw every thing
that he had made, and behold it was very good!” [Gen.
1.31.] Is God the author of sin? If so, is sin very good?
If so, can you think of any thing that is very bad ?
But Goa says: “ I make peace and create evil” But
what kind of evil? Not moral evil, or sin, by any means;
but physical evil, such as was threatened against Nin­
eveh. «And God saw their works, that they turned
from their evil way: and God repented of the evU that
he had said that he would do unto them, and he did it
not.” [Jonah 3. 10.] Did God repent of the sin he was
about to commit against the Ninevites? My opponent
no doubts think so! But all evil, which God is said to
create, we understand to be judgments which he brings
upon men for their disobedience. Thgfi Y
V
\a
328 U N IV E R S A L I8M I
there be evil in a city, and the Lord hath not done itf
[Amos 3. 6.]
But my opponent argues, that no blame can be at­
tached to the character of God, although the author of
all the sin and misery in the universe: from the fact that
he designed it for a wise and benevolent purpose, that
he might overrule it for good! This is however a sheer
subterfuge. If God designed to introduce sin, and then
to overrule it for the good of the sinner: we may well
ask: 4
4Why doth he yet find fault?” Why does he la­
bor so hard t6 get sin out of existence, since it is de­
signed for a good end? Why does he manifest such
mighty displays of wisdom, power, and goodness, to do
away his own benevolent enterprise of sin? Why con­
demn it with such awful threatenings, and terrible denun­
ciations if it be right, and designed to be overruled for
good? Why bring such direful calamities, and such un­
paralleled judgments upon the children of men, for be­
ing instruments in his hand of doing that only which
will result in the greatest amount of good; and which
they no more could have avoided, than they could have
prevented their own existence? Why say 441write unto
you little children that you sin not?” when if they did sin,
they were only doing the will of God,»—the very thing
that would be overruled for their good? Why be 4
4an­
gry with the wicked every day?” Why 4
4hate all work­
ers of iniquity?” Why have 44no pleasure in wicked­
ness?” Why, let me ask, cannot God look upon sin
with the least degree of allowance, since it is his own in­
vention, and calculated not only to add to his own glo­
ry, but to result in good to the transgressor? As sin is
designed for a good end, and will certainly result in good
and not evil, so that every sinner will be the gainer by
it; why does not God command, and encourage his chil­
dren to practice vice, rather than virtue ? Would not a
wise and benevolent earthly parent, place all the induce­
ments possible before his children, to lead them into the
path which would result in their best good? If so, would
not our heavenly Father manifest more
AGAIN ST ITSELF.
for his dear children, if he should encourage wickedness,
with all the benevolence of his soul, rather than curse
men for doing that which they could not help,—which
was bound upon them by the immutable decree of Jeho­
vah, and which, if wrong, no one was to blame for but
God himself? I am astonished that my friend, with all
hisintelligence, could ever have imbibed such a doctrine.
That God would make a man commit sin,and then bring
down fire and brimstone upon his head, for that which
he could not possibly avoid. Like the father who whip­
ped his boy to make him drink whisky, and then whip­
ped him for getting drunk! What would my opponent
think of me if I should knock him down, and then kick
him for falling? Just as much, verily, as I do of the God
he professes to worship! •
But the doctrine which my friend is endeavoring to
inculcate, is most pernicious in its tendency, and is cal­
culated to encourage sinners to continue in the practice
of wickedness. It holds out the very strongest induce­
ments to commit sin,whenever the doctrine is fairly un­
derstood. It is an undeniable fact, that the more God
overrules forourgood, the more good we will experience;
and as all sin is to be overruled for our good, it follows
then,—the more sin the better! Sin is preferable to vir­
tue for several considerations: for when a man performs
a virtuous act, the good resulting from it he receives as
he goes along; but when he commits a sin, and is pun­
ished for it, he derives present consolation, from the con­
sciousness that the sin he committed was according to
the will and decree of God; and the anticipation ot the
whole matter beingoverruled for his good, would inspire
more bliss than would over-balance the punishment he
then endured; and as God inflicts no punishment now,
except the compunctions of conscience, it is as clear as
demonstration, that the sinner gets all the good resulting
from sin, both by anticipation, and actual possession ot
the result, when God shall overrule it for his good, and
that too, without any punishment at all; for what man?*
conscience would lash him for doing that
28 ec#
U N 1V ERS A LISM
not avoid, and which he knew to be the eternal and un- p
changeable will of God? As well might his conscience H
goad him for not being six feet high! From this it is «
most manifest that my friend’s doctrine holds out a two­
fold greater reward for vice than for virtue! Should a !
man live the most base and profligate life;—should he •
continually blaspheme the name of God, and trample i
under foot, with the most ineffable contempt, the com- 1
mandments and authority of Jesus Christ; it shall all <
work together, and be overruled fot his good! Should '
he wantonly and maliciously imbrue his hands in the
blood of his own wife and children, my opponent would
inform him, (if he should act out the principles of hones­
ty,) that all this was according to the will of God, and
that it would result in the best possible good to him, as
well as to the victims of his cruelty! And should he be
hung for the crime,God will overrule it for his good; and
upon the same principle, 1see no good reason why the j
good Lord might not damn him, and send him to hell for i
his good!
But my opponent believes that righteous men will not
be rewarded for their virtuous deeds, only in this life,—
the reward is never postponed till a future state* This
is another demonstration, that his doctrine holds out j
more inducements for vice, than virtue* A man dies,
in the very act of committing murder, and thus is launch­
ed into eternity, without having the murder overruled
for his good; and hence, as all sin is to be overruled for
the good of the sinner, it follows that this sin will be
overruled for his good in eternity: and thus, whilst my
friend teaches, that virtuous conduct will not benefit us
in a future state, wickedness would be an eternal advan­
tage to us by being overruled for our good! If I believ­
ed this doctrine, I should considermyself morally bound
to-commit all the sin I possibly could, that it might be
overruled for the good of myself and others! Thus “ the
goodness of my God,” in overruling all sin for good, in­
stead of leading me to repentance, would lead me to J
continue in sin that grace ttugjnt exA \lwaxthe j
AGAINST ITSBLF. 881
goodness ofGod might overrule it all for my good: or if I
repented at all, it would be because I had not committed
more sin, that I might have more overruled for my good!
It is an absolute contradiction in terms, to say that the
goodness of God will lead a man to repent of his sins;
and, a t the same time, lead him to commit sin, by assur­
ing him, that the very worst thing he could do, would
result in good, and would inhance his happiness for eter­
nity ! Suppose 1should ask my friend, why he preaches
Universalism: his answer doubtless would be, to make
men happier in this life, by doing away the unnecessary
and servile fear of a future belli But if his doctrine be
true, that God will overrule every thing for good, why
not let them fear ahead? The more hell and damna­
tion is preached to them, the more they will fear, nnd
the happier they will be, when it comes to be overruled
for their good! If I believed the doctrine of my friend, I
would preach up endless damnation nevertheless; for it
would, in the outcome, benefit those who feared it; and
I would lose nothing by preaching such abominable false­
hoods, (if such they be,) for they too, would be overruled
for my good!
But my opponent is verily found fighting against God,
in trying to do away the fear of a future hell; for God
foreoredains whatsoever comes to pass; and it has come
to pass somehow or other, that a very large majority of
the world believe in a future hell; and hence God has
foreordained or decreed it: and as God would not decree
a thing that was not right, it is right, therefore, for the
orthodox to believe just as they do! If my friend admits
this, which he cannot avoid; then he is doing wro:ig
whenever he opposes them; for it is most unquestionably
wrong for a man to oppose that which is right. Will
he argue, that God has willed and decreed, that men
should fear hell and a lake of fire and brimstone, wide >
do not and never will exist? If he has thus decreed,
then it follows,that some men will eternal!v fear hell;
I formy opponent, at the commencement ofthis discussion,
I built his citadel upon the position, that God U
UNIVERSALISM
variableness or shadowof turning: andhence thosew
ho \
are now tormented with that fear, which owes its exn> |
tence alone to the decree of God, will be thus tonnest- i
ed td all eternity; and whatwill become of my friend’s ,
universal happiness and holiness? I .think, from hisap­
pearance, he is getting a little ashamed of this idea of
sin being overruled tor good; and if I am not very
much deceived, he will leave that doctrine before night.
If he does not, I have an abundance more, off the same
piece.
But as I have already spoken somewhat longer than
I hadintended, I shall again hear my opponent!
ALPHA’S THIRD SPEECH.
Fellow citizens: My opponent manifested quite an
anxiety, at the commencement of his speech, that I
should not present too many points; and that he wished
to have sufficient time to examine thoroughly every ar*
gument I adduced. I think he has no ground for com­
plaint, and in his next speech, he had better request me
to make no arguments at all; for he has utterly failed to
notice those upon which I relied in my last address, in sup­
port of universal salvation.
It is true, he examined the doctrine of God being the
author ofsin, and of sin being overruled for good; but
did 1 make that a point in this discussion? By no means.
I simply referred to that idea, as the only reasonable
way to account for the existence of sin, and from the
fact-that my first argument necessarily leads to the con­
clusion, that sin is according to the will of God: hence
the necessity of making him the author of sin, that he
might overrule it for good! I was aware also of the ,
difficulties and absurdities, that might be presented ac- I
cording to this ground; and am not all indebted to my
opponent for the information, as I had thoughts of the 1
same conclusions years ago. Hence, I have never argued
that point very strongly, neither do I think it would be
detrimental to my doctrine, if I should throw that mat- i
r up a/together, and adimt \Yvo\avn wto wik* (
AGAINST ITSELF. m
lence contrary to the will of God. But here again d&
ficulties would stare us in the face. Let my friend first
tell us, why God, who is almighty in power, did not pre­
vent the existence of sin, if it be an evil of a positive
character, (that is, one that shall not be overruled for the
good of the sinner,) before he undertakes to expose the
absurdities of my position. If I cannot reconcile the
tendency of my doctrine, in all sin being overruled for
good; neither can he account for its existence at all, so
that he is as deep in the mud, as I am in the mire«
But my arguments, as I observed before, upon which
I based my doctrine, have not been met, neither do I
think they can be. The audience no doubt recollects
them. I will however state them again, God is infinite
in power, wisdom, and goodness. This proposition, my
friend does not call in question. From this, we drew the
following conclusions: 1. His infinite goodness would
prompt him to desire the endless happiness of the whole
human race. 2« His infinite wisdom, was sufficient to
devise means, adequate to the accomplishment of the end
desired; and 3. His infinite power is all-sufficient to
carry into effect the means, devised by infinite wisdom;
so that the end prompted by infinite goodneds, will be
attained! The result is Universalism!
I predicated another argument upon this same foun­
dation, arranged in a different manner. One of three
grounds must be admitted: either 1. God can save all
men, but will not, or 2. God will save all men, but eanr
not, or 3. God can save all men, and will save all! If he
should take the first, and say that God can but will not,
he limits his goodness. If he should prefer the second,
and sav that God will, but cannot, he limits his power:
but if he should choose the third, and say he can and
w ill, he admits Universalism, the very doctrine for which
I am contending. But more still: God is perfectly holy
in himself, and it is not at all likely that he will permit
unholiness eternally to exist in direct opposition to his
nature! And if, as my friend argues, the Almighty has
no pleasure in wickedness, will
IN -UN1VERSALISM
permit a thing to exist to all eternity which is opposed
to his pleasure? Nay, verily! I t‘must, it will be de­
stroyed, as certain as 6
4the Lord God omnipotent reign-
eth.”
But my opponent says I do not believe in the attri­
butes of justice! But I say to him, in the language of
scripture: 4
4Thou art the man.” Universalists are the
only men on earth who believe in the justice of God.—
This I say, fearless of contradiction; and for this reason:
All men originally belonged to God, and it would be
unjust for him to lose any thing that is rightfully his!
Would it not be unjust for the devil to drag down to
everlasting destruction, those who were the legal pro­
perty of God? The justice of God is infinite, and re­
quires the universal salvation of all men; and it is notin
toe power of man, or the devil, to rob God, or to cheat
him out of that which is justly his due. But more still:
the infinite justice of God requires, that his glory should
not be diminished: and if some are eternally lost, it will
be curtailing that glory which is due to God alone. But
as no man has power to add to, or diminish from the
8
lory oi God, it follows hence, that infinite justice must
e satisfied, and the declarative glory of God.sustained,
by universal salvation, and nothing less! I hope the
congregation will bear this argument in mind, and see
what way myfriend will attempt to meet it, if he attempt
it at all!
He did not object to my a priori logic, and I presume
from this, he admits it to be correct. I have accordingly
reasoned from what God is, to what he must do, and
Universalism is the inevitable result. Let these argu­
ments be first replied to, and we shall be forthcoming
with an abundance more. I expect he will excuse him­
self, as be did before, for want of time, inorder, doubt­
less, to get rid of noticing them;—but he shall have as
much time as he desires; and I hope the Moderators will
put him in mind of them if he inclines to pass them by!
< Before I take my seat, I wish to observe, that this die-
tis notmerely for fta aak&of who «hall
A G A IN ST IT S E L F .
gel the mastery, as far at least, as I am concerned; but
my sincere object is truth. And certain it is, if I am in
an error at all, it is one of an exceeding dangerous char*
aeter. 1 shall therefore give my friend a fair chance to
set me straight if he can, and at the same time, I shall
endeavor to observe the “ golden rule,” to do to him as I
would like to have .him do to me!
OMEGA’S THIRD REPLY.
Respected audience: There is to be more spirit and
interest, I perceive, in the present discussion, tiian I had
at first anticipated. I am glad to find my friend of such
an affable turn, and to possess such an accommodating
disposition. I conceive it to be worthy of a better cause
than Universalism. But he has, as I predicted, given up
the theory of God being the author of sin, and overruling
it all for the good of the sinner. He says he had seen
its absurdities years ago, and that he did not make it a
point in the present discussion. But I leave it to the
audience to judge, if he did not, when he introduced the
argument, referring to the Pro and Con, and admit it to
be the faith of all Univerealists.
But he appears to have one thing to console him, and
that is, (to use his own language,) that I am as deep in
the mud, as he is in the.mire! He tells me to account
for the existence of sin, on my principles: how it is, that
sin couM be introduced contrary to the will of that God
who is infinite in power. But it is his place to account
for it, as much as mine, as it is no more my doctrine than
his, since he has yielded up the other notion, and ac­
knowledged himself in the mire; and also that it leads to
absurdities which he had seen years ago. And as no
doctrine can be true, that can be logically reduced to
absurdities, he must therefore believe with me, that sin
was introduced contrary to the will of God. Now let
him account for it, as he understands the attributes of
God so well, as to risk his salvation on a theory, which
has no other foundation. I said at the commencement,
and 1 say so still, that I do not ptofesa Vo o&taxtimk
UNIVERSALISM
every thing, connected with the attributes of the incora- 1
prehensible Jehovah, There is one thing, however, un* 1
avoidable, if sin came into existence contrary to the will }
of God, as we see must have been the fact, then no other
conclusion can follow, only that God could not prevent
it. But I know it is urged that all things are possible
with God. This however is not true, without being
qualified; for it is 4
4impossible for God to lie,” [Heb. 6«
18.] and “He cannot deny h im s e lf[2 Tim. 2. 13.]
Upon the same principle, it would be impossible for God
to make man a moral agent, and make him a machine at
the same time, and thus only, can we account for the
fact, that it was impossible for God to prevent the exist*
ence of sin.
He appears to intimate as much as that I have con­
ceded his a priori logic to be correct. In this he is mis­
taken. I do admit, however, the true system of a prim
reasoning, which is to draw conclusions from established
premises, or to trace out effects from known causes. But
the system adopted by my friend, is not to be found in
any logic in Christendom. Who can know the cause or
the premises, from which he deduces the conclusion of
universal salvation? None but God! Well may the
question be propounded, 4
4canst thou by searching find
out God?” My opponent answers yes! 4
4Canst thou
find out the Almighty unto perfection?” Yes, says my
friend, I can know him like a book: and one would
think, from the positive manner in which he speaks of
what God’s attributes must do, and what they must not
do, that Jehovah was nothing but a play thing in his hands!
But in vain will he attempt to fathom the incomprehen­
sible Deity. Infinity is an ocean without a shore,—a
center without a circumference. All is mystery,—crea­
tion responds Amen; and echo answer m ystery!! No
more can we comprehend the infinite I AM, with finite
powers of perception, than we can measure unlimited
space with a ten-foot pole. We may tell what the pow­
er, wisdom, and goodness of man may do; for this is
within the limits of our hut no man can
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 33?
tell what the definite attributes ofGod will do, only from
w hat they have done. This is the a posteriori system
of reasonings—the true, and the only true philosophy
connected with this awfully sublime and mysterious sub­
ject; and as God, in all his judgments inflicted upon the
human family, has manifested nis infinite wisdom, pow­
er and goodness, in separating the righteous from the
wicked,—in destroying the rebellious, and saving the
godly out of temptation; it is illogical and unreasonable
to infer that he will not continue to do the same. And
as he does not now, in the present state of being, cause
such separations and destructions of the ungodly, as he
did in days of old, in follows unavoidably, that such will
be the case in the future state. This must be done, as
certain as God is unchangeable, a proposition which my
friend says is the very chief corner-stone of the edifice
he is endeavoring to erect But a mote perfectly suici­
dal effort, methinks, he could not have made, than to
erect his cause upon the immutability of God. Look
at the premises ana conclusion. God nas never justified
the wicked; but has in all cases poured out his vengeance
and indignation upon their heads, for trampling under
foot his authority: but God is unchangeable,—the same
yesterday, to day, and forever; therefore he will fail to
do in eternity what he has always done in time!! This
is the logic of Universalism.
Having now laid my foundation, I shall attend to m y.
friend’s arguments. He states his propositions thus: —
1. God’s infinite goodness would prompt him to desire
the salvation of all mankind. 2. His infinite wisdom
was sufficient to devise means adequate to its accomplish­
ment; and 3. His infinite power was all-sufficient to carry
those means into execution, so that the end, prompted by
infinite goodness, wilt be attained! This is a correct
statement of his first aigument, and it shall be fairly m et
But why did not my friend bring into his aigument all
God’s attributes as well as these threet The truth is,
there would have been too many strings to \\v j
o f Universalism1 Suppose the infinite nXVxtaite wsp
U N I V ERBA LISM
geance had been substituted in the place of goodness, it
would have created the very harmony of discord with
his doctrine! Let us try how that string will vibrate,
1. His infinite vengeance (abstract from goodness) would
prompt him to desire the damnation of the whole human
family. His infinite wisdom was all-sufficient to de­
vise means adequate to bring about the end prompted
by infinite vengeance; and 3* His infinite power was
sufficient to carry those means into execution, so that
the end prompted by infinite vengeance, which is univer­
sal damnation, would be attained! This is as sound
logic as his!
But let us look at it from another angle. 1. God’s
infinite goodness would prompt him to desire the holi­
ness and happiness of all men in this life. 2. His infi­
nite wisdom was sufficient to devise means adequate to
its accomplishment: and 3. His infinite power was all-
sufficient to carry into execution the means devised by
infinite wisdom, so that the end prompted by infinite
goodness, (a present universal salvation from sin and mis­
ery,) would be attained! Thus, fellow-citizens, you dis­
cover that my opponent’s logic contradicts plain matter
of fact; and ergo, cannot be sound. He is compelled to
take one of two grounds: either 1. That God is now in
favor of universal holiness and happiness, or 2. He is op­
posed to it. If he choose the second, then God will al­
ways be opposed to universal holiness and happiness; for
(mark the fact!) he is without variableness or shadow of
turning! But if he prefer the first, and say that God is
now in favor of present holiness and happiness, then let
him. give us the reason why all aré not now holy and
happy! The very reason he will assign, why ail are
not now holy and happy, I will also assign, why all will
not be holy and happy in the future state! Will he tell
us that God’s goodness is now deficient? Then he will
never be any better, unless he is changeable; and conse­
quently those whom his infinite goodness will not now
save, will remain unsaved eternally! But will he take
its,g ro unA that lúa wisdom *\saXfovtaA,
A G A IN S T IT S E L F *
w h o fail to be saved now, will be lost forever; lor God is
n o w as wise as he ever will be! But will he take the
ground that the power of God is lacking, and that this is
the reason why all are not now saved? If so, then it
follows that infinite power is not strong enough to save
some men here; and as nothing stronger than infinite
power can be expected in eternity, it is mcontrovertibly
evident, that such men cannot be saved there! But
should he, in the last place, take the position, that God’s
wisdom, power, and goodness, are as perfect, and as
much in favor of universal holiness and nappiness now,
as they ever will be, but that the fault is all on the part
of man; then it follows, that man, as a moral agent, has
power to frustrate a plan, prompted by infinite goodness,
devised by infinite wisdom, and which infinite power
was about to carry into execution; and also, that God
exercises his attributes with regard to man’s salvation,
only in such a manner as will comport with man’s moral
agency, as a being subject to moral government! This
latter is unquestionably the true ground, and of course
operates as much against universal salvation at one
time, as another!
But the same argument, to which we have now re­
plied, was presented in a different form. Thus: One of
three grounds must be admitted: either l. God can save
all men, but will not; or 2. God will save all men, but
cannot; or 3. God can save all men, and will save all.
If you admit the first, and say he can, but will not: you
admit his power, but limit his goodness. If you admit
the second, and say he will, but cannot: you admit his
goodness but limit his power. But if you choose the
third, and say he will and can, you admit Universalism!
Here, then, is the argument, and my opponent, no doubt,
thinks it unanswerable. But if his mind is just as lop­
sided, as this argument, I am uot at all surprised that he
should believe Universalism, or any other dogma that
would happen to get on the upper-hill-side of his intel­
lect!
One o f three grounds most be admv\te<l% V«
840 U N IV E R S A L IS M
God can damn all men, but will not; or 2. God w
ill
damn all men, blit cannot; or 3. God can damn all men)
and will damn all? If my opponent should admit the
first, and say that God can but will not, he grants him
power but denies his vengeance. If he admit the second)
and say he will, but cannot, he grants him vengeance)
but denies his power: but if headmit the third; and say
he ioill and can, he will have universal damnation, or
his own logic is good for nothing!
But this can also be disposed of, by bringing it
along side of facts as they now exist. Let us try it—
One of three grounds must be admitted: either 1. God
can save all men from sin in the present life, but will not:
or 2. He will save all men, but cannot: or 3. He can
save all men in the present life, and will save all! If
my friend admit the first, and say he can, but will not;
he grants the almighty power but denies his goodness.
If he prefer the second; and say he will, but cannot; he
admits his goodness, but denies his power: but if he
adopt the third, and say he can and will save all in the
present life, he will say that which every one knows to
be falsei Here, then, goes his adcaptandum logic by the
board, and let him gather up the fragments if he can!
After all my friend’s reasoning and philosophy, he
finds the stubborn fact of present sin and misery, (and
that too, as he has to admit, contrary to the will of God,)
staring him continually in the face; and as long as his
hypothetical speculations contradict known and acknowl­
edged matters of fact, the whole scheme must be con­
sidered sophistical and false. Notwithstanding before
ever God created the earth, his wisdom, power, and
goodness, were just as infinite as they are now, or ever
will be; and yet, for all this, sin and all its concomitant
woes were introduced into existence. This being the
fact, it must either have been according to God’s will, or
against it. If we say against his will, then it may con­
tinue against his will to all eternity; for his will can be
no stronger at one time than at another. But if we say
according to his express aanA
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 841
rrisery will eternally exist, as God is unchangeable! It
rill be a difficult task for any man to prove, that God,
riio is without variableness or shadow of turning, will
o vary , and so turn, as to decree out of existence, that
vhlch exists alone by the good pleasure of his counsel!
The angels in heaven might have been cheated by this
rery system of logic, had my opponent been there, be-
ore the earth was created! The angel Gabriel comes
x> him, and informs him, that the-Almighty was about to
create a world, and to people it with a race of beings,
who, he predicted, would sin against God, and thereby
introduce sorrow, sighing, sickness, and death: and that
more than eighteen hundred millions of those intelligent
beings, whom God was about to create in his own image,
would fall in the field of battle,—would hew each other
to pieees with the sword,—would burn each other at the
stake, and roast them alive,—would commit each other
to the dens of ferocious animals, to be furiously torp in
pieces, and that the earth was to be no better than a
slaughter-house,—a valley of carnage and blood-shed for
six thousand years! No! no, (says my opponent,) Ga­
briel, you are deceived upon this subject: in thinking,
that the Almighty is a being who would permit such an
enormous amount of sin and suffering to come into ex­
istence. I can demonstrate from the attributes and
perfections of God, that you are a false prophet, and that
such a disastrous result can never occur in all the uni­
verse of created intelligences. One of three grounds you
must admit: either 1. God could prevent such a state of
things from coming into existence, but will not; or 2.
He would prevent it, but cannot; or 3. He can and will
prevent it. If you choose the first ground, Gabriel, and
say that God can prevent such a state of things, but will
not; you limit his goodness, which all the angels in heaven
know to be infinite. If you adopt the second ground, and
say that God would prevent all that suffering, but cannot,
you admit his goodness, but limit his power, which is too
absurd to be admitted for a minute. Bui \i
the third ground, and say that God can preveul
D
D
#
UNIVERSAL! SM
state of things, and will prevent it, you not only allow «
the attributes of God to exist, in infinite fullness and per-
fection; but you give up your cruel dogma, of sin and s
misery, and'admit that universal love, joy, and peace will *
=
e
be the ruling, and predominant principle, in that beau- -
tiful world which the Almighty is^bout to create!! At "
such profound reasoning, and astonishing powers of intel- -
lect, that mighty seraph would doubtless have yielded --
the point, and remained firm in the faith of universal -
holiness and happiness, until facts to the contrary had
stared him in the face! Such loo, may be the condition
of my opponent, should he continue in his present faith
till the great and terrible day of the Lord!
But I am not yet done with this subject, as I intend
fully to explode this new system of a priori logic, before
I take my seat; since my opponent offers me all the time
I desire, and wishes me to set him straight, if I find Mm *
crooked!
The assumption that the nature of God, because he is
perfectly holy, will not permit sin and misery to exist in
the future state, is as baseless as a castle built in the air.
Sin and misery are either opposed to the nature of God
now or they are not. If they are not, then they never
will be, for his nature changes not; and consequently
they will always exist. But if sin and misery are now
opposed to the nature of God, this proves that they may
exist notwithstanding God’s nature is opposed to them!
And if they can exist six thousand years contrary to the
nature of God, they may, on the same principle, exist
eternally, for all the nature of God has to do with the
matter. But as sin and misery do now exist, and that
too, in opposition to the nature of God, it must be for
one of two reasons; either 1. God is willing, a thing
should exist, in opposition to his nature, or 2. He can­
not possibly prevent it. If we admit the first, then God
will always be Willing for wickedness to exist in opposi­
tion to his nature, (for he is unchangeable,) and will con­
sequently be eternally opposed to himself! But if we
admit the second, and say tiaaVGod
AGAINST IT S E L F . t*»
the existence of that which opposes his nature, then he
can never prevent it, for he is as wise and as powerful
now as he ever will be.
Because God has no pleasure in wickedness, my oppo­
nent thinks he will certainly destroy it, and that it can­
not possibly exist to all eternity. But the arguments
relative to sin being opposed to the nature of God, will
apply equally to this case. But if, as my friend thinks,
God will absolutely destroy out of existence that in which
he has no pleasure, then it proves the utter destruction
of some men, as well as wickedness, for it is written con­
cerning them: 441 have no pleasure in you, saith the
Lord." What then, according to his own logic, becomes
of my opponents universal salvation!
Again: If God ever intends to destroy sin by absolute
force, why did he not put a stop to it in the garden of
Eden, when he would have had much less to do, than at
present, or at any future period? Or if, as my opponent
argues, the whole matter relative to the destruction of
sin, depends upon the omnipotence of God, why did he
not act consistently, and exert this attribute in putting
a veto upon the power of the devil, and thus have pre­
vented the existence of sin altogether? And as God did
not prevent the existence of sin by absolute force, it was
either because he could not or would not. If you say be­
cause he would noty then sin will eternally exist, for my
opponent will tell you, as he has already done, that the
will of the immutable God cannot change. But if you
say, that God did not prevent the existence of sin, from
the fact that he could not, then it follows that infinite
power (consistent with the moral agency of man, and
the moral government of God) could not prevent its ex­
istence; and as nothing stronger than infinite power can
be expected in eternity, we can but reasonably infer,
hence, that sin will exist there, as well as here! For if
Almighty power was not strong enough to prevent the
existence of sin, how can it be proved that the same pow­
er will cause it to cease, after obtaining the f e v W i
hbos? A ny one can saef that it woukd o t raviOtw
«44 UNIVERS ALISM
to prevent that mighty rock from starting down the bill,
than to put a check upon it, after it gets under head­
way!! So much for die existence of sin.
. But still my friend thinks that the attributes of God
are in favor of a future universal salvation. Granted:
but no more so, than they are in favor of a present uni­
versal salvation. This I have hinted at before. If, how­
ever, God’s infinite goodness wills the present salvation
of all men, which it certainly does;—if his infinite wis­
dom has devised the best possible plan for its accomplish­
ment, which it certainly has; and if infinite power has
been exerted to its utmost extent to put that plan into
execution, which is most unquestionably the case; why
then are not all men saved? One of two answers must
be given: either God is to blame for the failure, or else
the fault is on the part of man. If we say God is to
blame, then he will always be to blame, for he is with­
out variableness or shadow of turning, and hence, all
men will never be saved! But if we say the fault is on
the part of man, then this admission proves that God
exerts his attributes, with reference to man’s salvation
only in such a manner as will comport with man, as a
moral responsible agent. And if man, acting upon the
principle of moral agency, can frustrate the plan of God
with regard to his present salvation, even when that
plan was brought into operation, by his infinite good­
ness, wisdom, and power combined; can he not then, I
ask, on the same principle, and acting upon the same
moral agency, frustrate the same plan also, with regard
to his eternal salvation? God either intends to save all
men by absolute force, or else their salvation depends
upon their own conduct. If the latter, then it is condi­
tional; but if the former, why does he not act consistent­
ly, and save them all at once, and have done with it?—
As he'does not now save men by the bare exercise of ab­
solute power, it is either because this is not his way of
saving men; or else he is perfectly willing that some men
should remain guilty, and condemned. If the latter,
then they will always remain gpftty und condemned***
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 345
certain as God is immutable; but if absolute power be
not God’s way of saving men, then all arguments, based
upon the omnipotence of God, with reference to man’s
salvation, are of no avail! But finally; if God’s attri­
butes ever save the wicked, whom they fail to save here
in time, it cannot be till his attributes get stronger, or
till wicked men reform and get better. If they are not
saved till God’s attributes get stronger, then they will re­
main eternally lost, for my opponent boasts of the pro­
position that God is unchangeable* But to take the
ground that the wicked must reform and get better be­
fore the attributes of God can effect their salvation, is to
renounce Universalism, by admitting the eternal destiny
of man to be suspended upon his own conduct!! Thus
my opponent is cornered and hemmed in, until escape
from the foregoing doubled and twisted dilemmas, and
trilemmas, is rendered, I conceive, utterly hopeless!
There are some other things I had intended to take
notice of in this speech, but I perceive, from the appear­
ance of the audience, that some are getting anxious to
hear the opposite side. I shall for the present, therefore,
desist.
ALPHA’S FOURTH SPEECH*
Fellow-citizens: Tour attention has been invited, for
a considerable length of time, to the arguments of my
opponent. There nas been considerable ingenuity mani­
fested, I admit; but I am glad the audience have the
power to discriminate between real argument and so­
phistry* His effort during his whole speech, has been,
as any one can see, not so much to elicit truth, as to as­
sail my a priori logic. How he has succeeded, the au­
dience, of course, will judge for themselves, let me say
what I would* I have no disposition, neither should I
take time if I had, to follow him through all his whys
and wherefores, dilemmas and trilemmas, &c., &c., for
this would not onty be calling my attention from my reg­
ular congeries of arguments which t vatendAo
this discussion, but it would also
346 U N I VE RS A L I SM
the patience of my audience, which I, by no means,
would feel justifiable in demanding, and to which, doubt­
less, they would not submit
The principal argument in my last speech, which was
predicated upon the justice of God, has not so much as
been noticed. 1 proved, as the audience will recollect,
that God’s justice demands the salvation of all men, and
that neither man nor the devil can cheat him out of that
which justly belongs to him. I showed, also, that his
glory could not be diminished, and that the declarative
glory of God demands universal holiness and obedience!
Will this demand ever be satisfied? But where is the
justice of endless damnation! It is a solemn farce; and
the God of orthodoxy is a cruel and vindictive tyrant,
rather than a God of justice! He may ask me why God
permits men to suffer at all? I answer, that they may
know how to appreciate happiness! It is only by con­
trast that we can. know when we are happy; and we
could not enjoy the pleasure of holiness and purity, had
we never committed sin! This accounts, also, for the
present existence of sin and suffering.
My opponent’s arguments from first, to last, are pred­
icated upon the assumption, that man is a moral agent;
or, in other words, thatlie is in possession of a free will!
This is one of the greatest errors of the present age.—
The doctrine of free agency is argued at full length, in
the Pro and Gon of Universalism, by brother Rogers: and
we are all compelled to come to the same conclusion he
did,namely: that the notion of* a free will is nothing but
a chimera! Hence, whatever we are to do, as involun*
tary instruments in the hands of God, we will certainly
and inevitably do,and the idea ofvolition, choosing, refus­
ing, etc., are all out of the question. Man acts, oniy as
he is acted upon, by decree, by motive, or some othsr
moving cause! Where, then,is the justice or propriety
of eternal punishment?
1 will here introduce an argument, which, if correct,
will shiver my friend’s doctrine to atoms. I refer to the
true and scriptural design of pnn\aVvmenx, v
&every
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 347
•where in the bible proved to be for the express benefit
of the punished. God chastises for no other purpose
than for our good*—in order to a reformation. This 1
shall abundantly prove hereafter; but, I have only time
here to introduce the matter for further consideration.
I will now offer another argument, and carry it out
legitimately, which is of itself sufficient to establish Uni-
versalism without the assistance ofany other. It is pred­
icated upon the acknowledged position that “ GOD IS
LOVE!” I intend here to borrow the language of this
argument, principally from brother Skinner, in his de­
bate with A. Campbell. I am not at all ashamed to bor­
row from that source, as it is the best upon that subject
I have ever heard!
G od is in f in it e l y good. David says: 4
4The Lord is
good unto all, and his tender mercies are over all his
works.” [Ps. 145. 9.] Solomon says: 4
4Thou lovest all
the things that are, and abhorest nothing which thou
hast made; for never wouldst thou have made any thing
to have hated it” Christ says: 4
4There is none good
but one, that is God.” [Mark 10.18.] John says: 44God
is love.” [1 John 4. 8,16.] Thus the very essence, the
whole nature of God, is benevolence, goodness, or love.
Dr. A. Clark has well remarked: 44God is never said in
the scriptures to be justice, or patience,cor holiness; but
he is frequently, in one form or other, said to be love.”
When, therefore, we say, God is infinitely wise, power­
ful, just, merciful, &c., we do but say: Love is infinitely
wise, powerful, just, merciful, &c., these being but the
modifications and attributes of infinite love. When we
say, all are created, controlled, governed and disposed
by God, we do but say: Love creates, controls,governs
and disposes of alk The goodness or love of God being
coeval, and coextensive with his wisdom, and even with
his existence, must extend to every being he has ever
created, and attend that being through every period of
his existence. If there be m the universe of intelli­
gences a solitary being to whom God \s tycA.
his benevolence9being limited to less \Y
y
0l
T
y
348 U NI VERBALISM
not infinite. But as all allow that his goodness «
'a
nite, no other legitimate conclusion can follow, but that
his love extends to every being he has ever created !--*
When we say God is omnipotent, omniscient and omni­
present, it is but the omnipotence, omniscience, and om­
nipresence of infinite love. And as love, is omnipresent,
we cannot go therefore where infinite love does not
exist. No man can go beyond, or get out of the reach
of, infinite goodness. All mankind, not excepting saints
nor sinners,—every intelligent creature throughout the
vast and unbounded empire of Jehovah, are forever sur­
rounded, encircled, upheld, above, around, beneath, in
life, in death, in timé present, and time to come, by Al­
mighty, and infinite goodness, and by all pervading, and
omnipresent lave l Moreover, God being love, he can­
not exist aside from his nature; and if God should ever
cease to love the sinner, that moment he ceases to be
God, for God is love! From all this I draw the unavoid­
able conclusion: universal sal
should try it; and will there!
introducing any other matter, to call his attention from
this, for fear he will have some excuse for not taking it up.
OMEGA’S FOURTH REPLY.
Respected audience: I know not why it is, that my
worthy frjend is almost in every speech insinuating, that
I will feign some excuse, for getting rid of grappling
with his arguments: I have felt no such disposition, and
am perfectly willing the people should judge for them­
selves, whether I do or do not come up to the work.
Whilst this last argument is fresh in your minds I will
examine into its merits. But, in the first place, I will
offset it, by giving another, built upon the same prin­
ciple.
God is in f in it e in v e n g e a n c e . Paul says, “ Ven­
geance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord.” (Rom. 12.
19.) David says, “ Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and
ye perish from the way, when \\\s wts.\îo*
\s v
dispose of this argument!
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 349
a little.” (Pf. 2. 12.) The apostle says,4
4Indignation
and wrath, tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of
man.” (Rom. 2. 9.) 4
4It is a fearful thing to fall into the
hands of the living God.” [Heb. 10. 31.J And finally
says Paul: 4
4Our God is a consuming fire.” (Heb. 12.
39.) Thus the very essence, the whole nature of God,
is indignation, vengeance, or a consuming fire. God is
never said in the scriptures to be justice, or patience,
or holiness; but he is frequently in one form or other,
said to be a consuming fire. When therefore we say,
God is infinitely wise, jealous, powerful, and just, we do #
but say that a consuming fire is infinitely wise, jealous,
powerful, and just,—these being but modifications and
attributes of infinite vengeance. When we say all are
created, controlled, governed and disposed by God; we
do but say, that a consuming fire creates, controls, gov­
erns, and disposes of all. The indignation or vengeance
of God, being co-eval and co-extensive with his wisdom,
and even with his existence, must extend to every be­
ing he has ever created, and attend that being through
every period of his existence. If there be in the uni­
verse of intelligences a solitary being to whom God is
not angry; then his vengeance, being limited to less than
the whole, is not infinite. But as all must allow that his
vengeance is infinite, no other legitimate conclusion can
follow, but that his vengeance extends to every creature
he has ever created! When we say God is omnipotent,
omniscient, and omnipresent; it is but the omnipotence,
omniscience, and omnipresence of an infinite consum­
ing fire. And as God is a consuming fire, and at the
same time omnipresent, we cannot go, therefore, where
infinite vengeance does not exist. No man can go be­
yond, or get out of the reach of infinite wrath. All
mankind, not excepting saints nor sinners,—every intel­
ligent creature, tnroughout the vast and unbounded
dominions of Jehovah, are forever surrounded,, encir­
cled, upheld, above, around, beneath, in life, in death, in
time present, and time to come, by Wvc\\^\\y
its vengeance; and by an all pervadua^ axA
850 U N IV E R S A L IS M
ent consuming fire? Moreover God being a consuming
fire, he cannot exist aside from his nature; and if he
should ever cease to burn the sinner, that moment he
ceases to be God, for God is a consuming fire! From
all this I draw the logical and unavoidable conclusion,—
universal damnation!
I might leave the matter here, as being satisfactorily
met and set aside; but I have a few remarks to make
upon this declaration—* God is love.” The truth is,
neither love, nor consumingfire is the nature of God; but
they are each his character towards men under different
circumstances* Truth and holiness form the very es­
sence and nature of God. Hence, the Spirit of God, is
called the “ Spirit of holiness ” [Rom. 1.4,J and the “ Spi­
rit of truth;” [John 15. 26,] but it is never called tne
Spirit of love. But let us inquire, if the fact, that God
is love, will prove universal salvation, admitting love to
be his nature. Not exactly: for the text speaks of him
in the present tense: MGod IS love,” not, will be love at
the resurrection: but he is as much love now, as he ever
will be; and he is just as omnipresent now, as he ever
will be; and yet, notwithstanding all this, sinners can
live in the midst of this infinite, and omnipresent love,
guilty, miserable, and condemned; and finally die in
their sins, and go into eternity, a monument of corrup­
tion, dissipation, and depravity, and all the time too, en­
veloped and encircled m the embraces of infinite love!
The proposition that God is love does not appear to help
the cause of my opponent, any more, than if God was
something else: for, if men can be guilty, miserable, and
damned, threescore and ten years, and all the time sur­
rounded with omnipresent and infinite love, they may,
on the same principle, be damned to all eternity, not­
withstanding this infinite love; and more than that, they
actually will be, as certain as God is immutable! God
is not however omnipresent, in the sense in which he is
love, any more than omnipresent in the sense in which
he is a consuming fire.
I remarked a minute ago, \5cveae
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 351
sent the character of God towards men in different rela­
tions, or under different circumstances. 4
4God was in
Christ reconciling the world unto himself” [2 Cor. b. 19,]
and m this sense only are we to understand the propo­
sition: 4
4God is love.” Those who are in Christ, are in
love; for the apostle informs us that the love of God 44is
in Christ Jesus our Lord.” [Rom. 8. 39.] If the love of
God was omnipresent, or if God was omnipresent in the
sense in which he is love, then there would be no such
a thing possible, as getting out of the love of God: and
this being true, there would be no sense in the apostle's
injunction: 4
4Keep yourselves in the love of God,” [Jq.
21,] for let a man do the very worst he could, he would
still be in the love of God, and could not possibly get
out! But those who were out of Christ, the apostle says,
are without hope, and 4
4without God in the world,”
[Epb. 2. 12,] that is, they are without God, in the sense
m which he is love! But in the verse preceding this
proof-text, the apostle shows that God is not omnipresent
in the sense in which he is here speaking, for he says:
4
4Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God,
God dwelleth in him, and he in God;” [Verse 15,] and if
God was omnipresent in this sense, he would dwell in
God, whether he confessed that Jesus was the Christ or
not! And in the very verse, where this proof-text occurs,
the apostle pointedly teaches, that God is not omnipres­
ent, in the sense in which he is love. 4
4God is love, and
he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God.” [Verse 16.]
Do all men dwell in love? How about those that are
4
4
haters o f God?” [Rom. 1.30.] Do they dwell in love?
If*not, then they do not dwell in God, and hence God, in
this sense, is not omnipresent; and all the argument of
my opponent upon this text, is not worth a straw!
I snail now attend to my friend's argument, based upon
the justice of God. He was mistaken when he said that
I charged him with denying the attribute of justice. I
did say, however, that he had no faith in the attribute of
vengeance; and his arguments so far, have
assertion to be correct; for he has not as 'jeX
UN IV ERSA LISM
although I have repeatedly made it a point m this dis­
cussion.
He thinks that the justice of God requires universal
salvation. I grant it. 6ut, says he, God cannot be cheat­
ed, or wronged out of any thing that is justly his due. I
deny it The service of all men in this life, justly and
rightfully belongs to God; yet hundreds and thousands
serve the devil with all their might as long as they live!
Now one of two things my opponent is compelled to ad­
mit: either, that God is unjustly wronged, or cheated out
of the service of those who serve the devil; or, that the
devil has a perfect right to it! If he says that God is
wronged out of their service, in this world, then he may
be wronged out of their service in the next world also,
and to all eternity! Bert if he prefer the ground, that
the devil has a just right to their services in this world,
he may on the same principle hold on to his claim in the
next! Truth is, the justice of God just as much demands
the salvation of all men here, as hereafter; and if man or
the devil can violate those claims here, they can also be
violated in the world to come!
But he still argues, that the ultimate glory of God re­
quires universal salvation, and that his glory cannot be
diminished* But here again he errs, not knowing the
scriptures, nor the power of God. Is not the salvation
of all men as necessary, and desirable at one time as an­
other? If so, would it not just as much enhance the de­
clarative glory of God, for all men to be saved jn time as
in eternity? Most assuredly: yet all men are not saved,
and consequently God’s glory comes minus so much. My
friend appears to be entirely ignorant of the fact, that
men can add to, or diminish from the glory of God, by
their conduct here in time. Payl, in describing the char­
acter of the world, before the first advent of Christ, gives
us to understand, that “ all had sinned and come short of
the glory of God.” [Rom. 3. 23.] In another place he
enjoins: “ Whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God.”
[1 Cor. 10. 31.] Thus we may come ^vorct o\
of God, by serving the dev\\, end thus ^ssc*\
A G A IN ST I T S E L F . 35*
or we may add to, or enhance his glory, by acitnowl-
edging his authority in all our words and actions. Now
if man has it in his power, to diminish the glory of God,
to the amount of the worth of his own salvation and
services, for the term of three score and ten years, may
he not also, on the same principle, diminish the same
amount forever?
But where is thejustice, my opponent asks, in endless
damnation? Before he asks this question, let him com­
pute by figures, and tell the enormity of one sin commit­
ted against an infinite God, and the exact amount of
heinousness attached to a whole life time, spent in rebel­
lion against Jehovah; and then let him makean estimate,
and report to this audience the exact amount of punish­
ment necessary to satisfy the demands of infinitejustice!
Let this all be done, before he talks of injustice, and
cruelty.
But he argues that man is not a moral, responsible
agent; and that consequently he is not to blame, for his
conduct, in the least! Yet he contends that God has, and
does punish men severely for their sins: where then, per­
mit me to ask, is the justice of this? Can my opponent
justify the character ofGod, in such a course ofconduct?
First make man a mere machine,—to act, only as he is
acted upon:—second, decree that he should commit sin,
which he is compelled to commit, and which he is no
more to blame for, than for being created, or than the
wagon-wheel for turning, when the horses move; and in
the third place, lay the blame all on poor innocent, unoff­
ending man; the victim of hisvindictive cruelty, and beat
him with many stripes, for nothing under the heavens, but
for doing that which he could not possibly have avoided?
Talking of a God of cruelty,—a vindictive Tyrant—
comes with an exceeding poor grace from one who be­
lieves with my friend? But he may endeavor to save
appearances, by the plea, that God will not, according
to his doctrine, inflict eternal punishment. But it is a
principle established, not only in the ordinary eSum
life, bat also in the bibJe, that he who w\\\ he
30 EE*
U N I V E R S A L I S M
*
354
little will also be unjust in much! And as the God of
Universalism punishes one innocent man, and that too
unjustly, ofcourse, he may, on the same principle, punish
all innocent men unjustly, and that too with endless
damnation, which is only an extension of the same cruel
principle! None therefore, according to my opponent’s
doctrine, are safe under the control of the Almighty!
But my friend urges, that it is necesessary for men to
be sinful and miserable, in order that they may appreciate
holiness and happiness! This doctrine of contrast, will
get him into a difficulty, I fear, ofwhich he was not at all
aware. In the first place, it holds out the strongest con­
ceivable motives to prompt men to commit sin. The
more a man sins, the greater will be the contrast, and
of course, the more happiness he will enjoy when he be­
comes holy; and he shall certainly be made holy, no mis­
take about it, let him do the very worst he can! But,
says my friend, the more he will be punished too! So
much the better; for, the greater will be the contrast,
and he will consequently be the happier, when the pun­
ishment ceases. The base and profligate drunkard,
would delight to lay up treasures in heaven in this way,
and would swallow down my friend’s doctrine with
greediness. Yes, the drunker he can get, the sweeter
will be his holiness, when he wakes up sober in heaven!
And if he should happen to get punished, by having his
heel bruised, or his head broxen in some of his drunken
frolics, yet he has all assurance from the doctrine of my
opponent, that it will work out for him a far more ex­
ceeding and eternal weight of glory! That dissipated
wretch, under the conviction that this doctrine is true,
and with the glorious anticipation which it inspires in his
bloated soul, could bear with the patience of Job, all his
bangs and bruises, with the absolute certainty of being so
much the happier when it was ail over with.! Like the
man who beat his shin with a stick, that it might feel the
better when it was done hurting! My opponent told us a
while ago, that the reason wh^ he preached against or-
thodoxy, was to do away the VormenVvn*
AGAINST IT SE L F, 3
*
a
r
Bat why does he not act consistently, and let them be
tormented with the fear of hell as much as possible, that
the contrast may be so much the greater, and their bliss
so much the sweeter, when they come to find out their
mistake!
But there is another difficulty attending this doctrine
of contrast, and that is this. Those abominable char­
acters, after being in heaven a few thousand years, will
forget how they felt when they were drunk; arid will
need what some folks call a memory-refresher, in order
to keep up the happiness of contrast! As the Pro and
Con testifies, it will be like fire, that will go out, unless
occasionally renewed by fresh supplies of fuel! Hence
the necessity of having a distillery in heaven, that the
glory and blessedness of contrast may eternally be en­
joyed!
But it is impossible, says my opponent, for any one to
appreciate the bliss of holiness and purity who never
committed sin. Then the holy angels of God, are un­
doubtedly the most unhappy beings in the universe, for
they have never sinned, and I doubt very much, wheth­
er they have ever been sick: so that they are entirely
destitute ofthe happiness of contrast! The whole crea­
tion of infants will be utterly destitute of the sweets of
purity and innocence, as they have never practiced in­
iquity! And finally, if my opponent’s doctrine be true;
it is the duty of every true philanthropist to start into
operation, the most successful schemes of wickedness;
and to encourage the most abominable, and diabolical
practices* both by precept and example, which are the
best calculated to decoy men into the sinks ofcorruption!
The more inquisitorial racks, faggots, and engines of tor­
ture are put into successful operation, against all ranks
and conditions of men, the more extatic will be their bliss,
when it all comes to beoverruled for their good, and they
Sit into the full fruition of the blessedness of contrast!
ere then we leave this argument, and the audience con
do with it as they choose. But stop, says my
they have no choice in the matter, for they axe M m ov
356 U N IV E R S A L IS M '
al agents! Sure enough! But let us look at this mat­
ter for a few minutes. I expected, since the commence­
ment of this discussion, that the infidelity of his doc­
trine would leak out, and here we have it in all its
native ugliness! He admitted a while ago, that sin was
not according to the will of God; and that the doctrine
of God decreeing sin, that he might overrule it for the
good of the sinner, necessarily led to absurdities, which
he had seen years ago! But now he has got back into
the old absurd doctrine, that man is nothing but a ma­
chine, and can do nothing except what he is compelled
to do by the immutable decree of Jehovah. I wonder
how many times more he will back out, and back into ,
these absurdities, before this discussion comes to -a close. |
In denying a free will, or moral agency, he denies the
whole revelation of God; for I assert, fearless of contra­
diction, that there is not a chapter in the bible, but that
holds man as a voluntary, responsible agent,—praise­
worthy, or blame-worthy as his conduct is good or bad!
If the doctrine of free will, or moral agency, be not cor­
rect, then no moral responsibility can be required of
man, and the idea of blame and praise is out of the j
question altogether. But if such a thing as volition, free­
dom of action, choice, blame or praise, is to be found
taught in the bible, then the doctrine of my opponent
is but the quintescence of Deism! Let us examine: “I
call heaven and earth to record this dav against you, that
I have set before you life and death, blessing and curs­
ing; therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed
may live.” [Deu. 30. 19.] “-And Moses said unto Aa­
ron, choose us out men, and go out, fight with Amalek.”
iEx. 17. 9.] 4
6Go and say unto David, thus saith the
-.ord, I offer thee three things: choose thee one o f them,
that I may do it unto thee.” [2 Sam. 24. 12.] “ Then
shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall
seek me early, but they shall not find me, for that they
hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the
Lord.” [Prov. 1. 23, 29."\ “ TVvetefore will I number
you to the sword, and ye A\sA\ \&
> <
AGAINST IT S E L F , 857
slaughter: because when I called, ye did not answer;
when 1 spake, yc did not hear, but did evil before mine
eyes, and did choose that, wherein I delighted not" [Is.
65. 12.} “ By faith Moses, when he was come to years,
refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter;
choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of
God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season."
[Heb. 11. 24, 25.1 So much {or choosing and refusing.
which is but a tithe of the testimony upon that subject
Again: “ When Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood
him to the face, because he was to be b la m e d [Gal. 2.
11.] “ Who shall also confirm you unto the end, that ye
may be blameless m the day ol our Lord Jesus Christ"
[1 Cor. 1. 8.] “ Do all things without murmurings and
disputings, that ye may be blameless and harmless
[Phil. 2.15.] wNow I praise you brethren that ye re­
member me in all things, and keep the ordinances as I
deliver them to you.” [1 Cor. 11. 2.] “ What shall I
say?—Shall I praise you in this? I praise you not? pb.
22.] Paul asks: “ Am I not free?” [1 Cor. 9.1.] My
opponent answers. No; you are a machine; you can
move, only as you are acted upon; and you have just
about as much volition as a water-wheel. Christ says:
“Freely ye have received, freely give." [Math. 10. 8.]
My friend says: ye can do nothing freely; for ye are all
involuntary agents. Once more: “ I make a decree, that
all they of the people of Israel, and of the priests and
Levites, in my realm, which are minded of their own
FREE WILL" to go up to Jerusalem, go up with thee."
[Ezra 7. 13.] My opponent, as well as the Pro and
Con, replies: God has made a decree, that no man shall
have afree will any more than a big stone, after it gets
to rolling: and that the notion of a free will is all a
chimera!
From the foregoingtestimonieswe discover, that man
possesses volition,—the power of choosing or refusing:
that he is responsible forhis actions,—that he is blamed
when he does wrong, and praised when he doe*
and that he possesses a free will; none of w
Y
nricvco.n'oe
u n i v e r b a l i s m
m
the cage, if the doctrine, my opponent is endeavoring to
inculcate, be the truth! Every phrase made use of, to
express the freedom of the Almighty, in choosing and re­
fusing, is also applied to man; and thus (rod himself, is
proved to be a creature of fate, by the very same logic,
which my opponent applies to man! Not only so, but
God in the creation, has stamped a lie upon the con­
science of every man in the universe. There is no man,
in any nation, but has a consciousness of certain actions
being right, and others wrong: and that he could have
done differently from what he did,and will acknowledge
himself to blame for doing as he did«
This all goes to stamp infidelity upon the doctrine of
my opponent But the genuineness of a doctrine, may al­
ways be known by its inevitable and necessary tenden­
cy. And if my opponent will but look at the natural
tendency of his doctrine, for a few minutes, methinks
he will give it to the moles and bats. Suppose he
should gp to the legislature of this State, and succeed in
convincing that body, of the truth of his doctrine,—that
man was not a moral responsible agent, and that he
was not in the least accountable for his conduct, from
the fact, that he was merely a machine, acting only as
he is acted upon; and hence, that it was cruel to enact
laws to inflict punishment of any kind upon wicked
men, os they were not at all to blame for their actions.
The legislature, of course, breaks open the penitentiary,
and annuls all laws, relative to crime of any kind, and
enacts a statute, that no man shall be punished for any
offence ho may commit. Suppose, in the next place,
my opponent should call a general convention of all the
cutthroats, horse-thieves, black-legs, murderers, robbers,
gamblers, drunkards, liars, profane swearers, debauch­
ees, scoundrels, and villains in the State, and congre­
gate them upon some vast theatre; and then let him
commence lecturing them upon his most salutary doc­
trine, of no responsibility, and prove to their entire con-
victioDf that they were not to blame for any thing they
might do,—Jet them rauTdet, cheat, he, fcosafo,,
A G A IN S T I T S E L F .
blaspheme the name of God, or do what they would,
they had no choice in the matter,—were only doing that
which God had decreed, and which they were no more
to blame for, than for having an existence! And not
only so, but that no human punishment should be inflict-
ed upon them: and as for divine punishment, there was
not the least danger;—their sins should all be overruled
for their good: and they would only be the happier in
heaven, when they come to experience the wonderful
contrast that would exist. Then fancy, fellow-citizens,
a thousand hungry wolves, let loose among a flock of as
many sheep, and if your imaginations are sufficiently
acute, you have an imperfect miniature representation
of the wretchedness and devastation which would fol­
low in the train, at the breaking up of my opponent’s
convention! Such is, unquestionably, the natural, and
pernicious tendency, and such the inevitable and ruin­
ous result of this dogma of fatality, wherever it obtains
to the extent supposed. Having now noticed the prin­
cipal arguments, in my opponent’s last speech, I shall
again hear what he can add in response.
ALPHA’S FIFTH SPEECH.
Fellow cititizens: It will of course be expected that 1
should say something in reply to the speech to which
you have been listening, before proceeding with my reg­
ular congeries of propositions. My opponent-has been
endeavoring, during the greater part of his address, to
rivet the charge of infidelity upon the cause of Univer-
salism,—the cause for which I am contending. The
congregation will just look at the charge, whilst!, in one
word expose its fallacy. My opponent, as you are aware,
believes that Christ will only save a part of mankind,
whilst I believe in Christ as much again as he does!—
This is certainly a new plan of testing infidelity! The
man who believes in Christ the most is the greatest in­
fidel! My friend looks upon Christ as a part of a Sa­
viour; yet he is the believer, and I am VoSA&\ \
see several gentlemen sitting back there, sovr\e cA
860 UNIVERSALISM
Calvinists, and some Armenians; and they appear to be
exceedingly interested in my opponent’s arguments.— I
Gentlemen, by your permission, I will put two of you
together, and make a first rate Universalist! The Cal­
vinist believes that Christ will save all for whom he
died; and the Armenian believes that he died for all!— 1
Hence, all will be saved! Now I will leave it to the au-
dience to judge, whether I am an infidel, when I believe
in Christ as much as both those gentlemen put together?
[A laugh!]
But my opponent endeavors to justify the dogma of
endless damnation; and a miserable defence he has made!
He tells me to calculate the exact amount of punish- I
ment due, for sins committed against God. I will in- j
form the audience that man is a finite being, and all his
actions are like himself,—finite in their character. No
man can commit an infinite offense, hence the injustice
of inflicting infinite punishment. Punishment should
always be proportioned to the sin for which it is inflict­
ed; and as sin is finite, punishment must be also; actions
in time can, in no case, extend in their effects into eter­
nity! This is my doctrine exactly;—sin belongs to this
life, and does not extend into the future state at all.—
Hence, punishment belongs to this life, and will in no
case extend into eternity. Whenever a man’s body
dies, then the very fountain and foundation of sin is
destroyed. Sin originates in the flesh,—belongs to the
flesh, and is not in the least attached to the soul, or spir­
it. This being incontrovertibly true, it follows, that
whenever the flesh dies, the individual is free from sin.
The apostle testifies the same thing. u He that is dead,
is freed from sin.” {Rom. 6.7.] Hence, whenever a man
leaves this fleshy, sinful state, he has nothing to do, but
to regale his spirit, in the elysian fields of the paradise
of God! How transcendently sublime is the faith of ,
universal salvation! I
But how mighty the contrast, between this and the I
| soul-benumbing dogma of en&Xesa ^d \t\o n . Many, in *
the belief of this doctrine, \\ave Yiecome \osss* v
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 861
Acs, and have gone into eternity, in the act of commit­
ting suicide! What a horrible death for any rational
being to die* And look, also, at the cruel persecutions
that have bee.nconducted bv the believers in that wretch­
ed doctrine* Look at the hundreds and thousands who
have fallen victims to death, under the withering influ­
ence of the dogma of endless damnation. My heart is
chilled when I think of the myriads who have been hur­
ried into eternity, by the wicked and cruel doctrine of
partialism. None have ever been guilty of such barbar­
ous and outrageous conduct, except such as were be­
lievers in that heart-withering sentiment!
But my opponent is strong in the faith that those who
die in their sins are lost forever! But this must lead
him into a difficulty, from which he cannot possibly es­
cape. There is no man perfectly free from sin in this
life. The greatest saints die in their sins, to some ex­
tent; and consequently the whole race of Adam will be
eternally lost! The only perfect freedom from sin is in
the ordeal of death, when the mortal flesh,—this 4
4body
of sin, is put off*”
But I will now carry out the argument on the design
of punishment, introduced in my last speech* Or, at
least, I will give my positive testimony upon that point,
and then call upon my opponent to refute it if he can.
God says to the children of Israel: 4
4Thou shah consider
in thy heart, that as a man chasteneth his son, so the
Lord thy God chasteneth thee." [Deu* 8. 5.] Thus the
chastisement of the Lord is compared with the chastise­
ment of man; and what father, possessing the feelings
that should rule in the breast of every parent, would
punish his son with ceaseless perdition ? But this is not
all the testimony direct upon this point* The apostle
Paul has placed this position beyond the reach of con­
troversy. 4
4My son, despise not thou the chastening of
the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him; for
whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth ev­
ery son whom be receiveth. If ye en&uxe
God dealeth with you as with sons, flu W
fcftX
303 UNIVERSALISM
wliom the father chasteneth not? Furthermore we have *
had fathers of our flesh .which corrected us, and we gave | a
them reverence; shall wc not much rather be in subjec­
tion to the Father of spirits and live? For they verily :
for a few days, chastened us after their own pleasure; j
but hefo r owr profit, that we might be partakers of his \
holiness! Now no chastening lor the present seemeth
'to be joyous but grievous: nevertheless afterwards it
yieldeth thepeaceablefru its ofrighteousness.” [Heb. 11
£-11.] This is as positive as testimony can make it,
that God punishes only with regard to reformation, that
the subjects of his chastisement might be partakers of
his holiness; and he here emphatically testifies, that it is
fo r our profit, and that it will yield the peaceablefruits
o f righteousness! This is the true and scriptural design
of all punishment. This chastisement is not only inflict- l
ed in order to reform the sinner; but God in his benev­
olence places punishment before men as a motive to de­
ter them from the commission of crime. I could present
several other considerations in confirmation of this po­
sition; but I will preserve them until I hear how my ,
friend will endeavor to evade those already adduced.— !
As I said before, I wish him to have all chance possible, 1
to grapple with my testimony, and dispose of it, if he
can; and if he cannot, I hope he will possess the spirit
of candor and honesty, enough to confess it. He may
now try his hand again, and the audience will watch the
movement of the waters!
OMEGA’S FIFTH REPLY.
.Fellow'citizens: Were it not that my opponent would
make capital of it, I would honestly confess that I know
not how to dispose of his last speech; not because the
arguments which it contains are unanswerable, but be­
cause it is the most perfectly heterogeneous tangleation
of incongruities and contradictions that I ever heard in
so short an address. If I can succeed in untwisting and
gling its innumerable Yervemoua*and sophistical
i f f ¡flog tionftyiri.three timesits\engfc^\ v
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . £63
more than I now expect. We shall try however, to be
as brief and as systematical as possible!
In the first part of his speech he endeavored to escape
from the charge of infidelity, and I did not at all won­
der that the audience should be diverted at the funny
little twist he took! He says he believes in Christ twice
as much as I do, because he believes that he will save
all, and I believe he will only save a part! Hence, he
concludes that I am more of an infidel than he is! Very
cute indeed! But stop a little: it is just as much infi­
delity to believe that Christ will do, wnat he says he will
not do, as to disbelieve every thing he says! But my op­
ponent did not think of this! He believes that Christ
will do what he has repeatedly said he will not do. I
might argue, on the same principle, that I was still more
of a believer than he, and contend that Christ would
take all men to heaven in their sins! He would object
to this, and charge me with infidelity for believing a
thing which is so manifestly contradicted by reason,
common sense, and the bible! But why, my dear sir,
do you charge me with infidelity, when 1 believe in
Christ so much more than you do? Look at it if you
p ease! Neither does it follow, because I do not believe
that Christ will save all, that I hold him only as a part
of a Saviour. Suppose a physician, with medicine suf­
ficient to cure every case of sickness that might occur,
should locate in this town; and suppose a half dozen men,
out of sheer negligence, or contempt for the physician,
should refuse to take his medicine, and consequently die,
could it with any propriety be said, that the man was
only part of a doctor?
But my friend proved his doctrine, by putting a Cal­
vinist and Armenian together. One believes that Christ
will save all that he died for; and the other believes that
Christ died for all, and hence all will be saved! This I
confess, is a powerful argument!! Well: Armenianism
teaches that one sin deserves endless damnation, unless
this punishment be shielded off by forgiveness. Cwwt-
salism teaches that forgiveness in no case s\\\e\As eSAer
864 U NI VE RS AL ISM
served punishment: hence as all have sinned, if you put
an Armenian and Universalist together, you have uni­
versal damnation!! Again: a Calvinist believes, that
those who die in their sins will be eternally lost. My
opponent affirmed in his last speech that there were
none, not even the greatest saints, who did not die in
their sins* Hence, put my friend and a Calvinist toge­
ther, and you have a universal damnation!!! So much
for that argument.
But as we are now upon this point, let us inquire into
this matter of the greatest saints dying sinners! He
first states such to be the fact, and in the next sentence
he contradicts himself, by saying that the moment the
body dies, sin is put off, and the individual is perfectly
freed from it! Thus, instead of dying in his sins, death
is nothing but a leap out of sin and all its contaminations
into the presence of God! But this idea, that no man
can be perfectly free from sin till death, is most prepos­
terous and absurd! Cannot a man die forgiven? Cer­
tainly: if he attend to the means which God has appoint­
ed, before death* When God forgives a man’s sins, is
the man yet a sinner? This is truly a singular idea, that
God cannot forgive a man’s sins, but that there will be
some sin left unforgiven! Let us hear how Paul agrees
with this doctrine, u And you being dead in your sins,
and the uncircumcision of your fiesh, hath he quickened
together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses
[Col. 2. 13.] Suppose God should forgive a man all
trespasses, (which he certainly would, if he forgave any.)
and the man should then die, what would become of my
opponent’s theory? Universalists will not contend, but
that Christ was perfectly pure, and died without sin!
Now what says John? 4
4When he sh ill appear, we
shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is: and ev­
ery man that hath this hope in him, purifieth himself\
EVEN AS HE IS PURE!” [1 John 3. 3.] But how
is this to be done? John answers: “ I f we confess our
sins, he is faithful and just, to forgive us our sins, and
to cleanse us from ALL»
ai
te
&
Q
&
it.
L
i
a
*
\
r
'a
in
|i
it;
AGAINST ITSELF.
T ib. 1. 9.] , Thus, if a man should confess his sins, in all
sincerity of soul, before death, God would forgive “ all
trespasses”—cleanse him from “ all unrighteousness”
and he would die uncontaminated,—“pure, even as
Christ is pure.n Such are the characters referred to by
the Revelator: “ And I heard a voice from heaven, say-
iug unto me write: Blessed are the dead that die in the
Lord;” [Rev. 14. 13,] that is, according to my friend’s
logic; Blessed are the dead that die in their sins,
for all men die in their sins, whether they die in the
Lord, or out of him!! The apostle, in speaking of those
ancient worthies who walked with God, says: “ These
all died in faith;” [Heb. 11. 13#
] that is, they all died in
their sins! What an interesting commentary my oppo­
nent could write on the New Testament, if he should
once set himself about it!! Christ says: “ If ye believe
not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins.” [John 8. 24.]
Alpha says: ye shall die in your sins any how, whether
you believe on Christ or not; for the greatest saints die
sinners!!—Solomon says: “ He that justifieth the wicked,
and he that condemneth the just, even they both are an
abomination to the Lord.” [Prov. 17. 15.] And I would
say to my opponent: “ thou art the man!” He con­
demns the just, by saying, that the most just man that
ever lived, died in his sins, and he justifies the wicked,
by making out, as you have heard him do, since the
commencement of this discussion, that his sins were all
according to the will of God,—that he was an involun­
tary agent, and consequently not to blame for any thing
he did, and that sin should be no injury to him in the out
come, as it should be overruled for his good! Thus, as
certain as Solomon has told the truth, my opponent is
an abomination to the Lord, because he both justifies the
wicked, and condems the just?
But another argument is presented:—Sin belongs
wholly to the body, or to the flesh, and is not at all at­
tached to the soul or spirit; and hence, when the body
dies, or the flesh returns to the dust, s'ui
ter o f coursej L otus first examine tV
ve teak
F F #
806 UNIVERSALISM
•in has nothing to do with the spirit, or that the spiritin
the worst sinner remains uncontaminated! 4
4Having
these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves
from allfilthiness of theflesh and sp irit” [2 Cor. 7.1.]
It appears from this, that the spirit gets contaminated
by sin, as well as the flesh. 4
4Do ye think that the scrip­
ture saith in vain? the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth
to envy!” [Jam. 4. 5.] If the spirit in a man lusteth to
envy, it is sinful;4
4For where envying and strife is, there
is confusion and every evil work” [lb. 3. 18.] But if
this should be denied, and it be contended that the lusts
of the flesh are the only things that are sinful, and that
they cannot affect the soul: we answer in the language
of Peter: 4
4Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers
and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war I
against the soul” [1 Pet. 2. 11.] raul offers up a sin- |
gular petitition, my opponent’s doctrine being true: 441
pray God, your whole spirit, and soul, and body, be pre- a
served blameless, unto the coming of our iiord Jesus 1
Christ.’* [1 Thess. 5. 23.] If there can be no blame at­
tached to the soul and spirit, then two-thirds of the apos­
tle’s prayer was perfect nonsense! If the spirit cannot
be unholy, why does Paul make this remark? 4
4The un­
married woman careth for the things of the Lord, that
she be holy, both in body and in sp irit” [1 Cor. 7. 34.]
Solomon does not agree with my opponent, for he came
to the conclusion that 4
4the soul of the wicked desireth
evil” [Prov. 21. 10.] Neither does Ezekiel: 44Behold
all souls are mine, as the soul of the father, so also the
soul of. the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it shall
die” HEzek. 18.4.] Neither does the prophet Micah: I
4
4Shall I give my first born for my transgression, the fruit
of my body, for the sin of my soul?” [Mic. 6. 7.] Such '
are a few of the many testimonies sustaining the posi- I
tion, that sin is connected with, and has its seat in the I
soul. Truth is, an action that does not originate in the
soul, or that is not first resolved in the heart, before be­
ing carried out into practice, is not recognized by the |
Jaws of God or man, as e\tkic good ov evil. The more j
AGAINST ITSELF. 867
the spirit or soul has to do with an evil act, in premedi­
tating, planning, resolving, etc., the more heinousness is
attached to the crime. But it is most unaccountably
strange, that God should inflict all punishment for sin,
according to my opponent’s creed, upon the spiritual
part of man, the satd9or the conscience, when nothing
was engaged in the practice of it except the body! Why
not punish the part that is guilty? This, however, is not
the only absurdity connected with this theory. My op­
ponent believes that Christ came to save alt men from
sin. But he cannot save the souls or the spirits of men
from sin, forthey are perfectly uncontaminated, and pure
from its defilements! He cannot save the body from
sin; for my opponent believes, as does a majority of his
brethren, and as I heard himassert last Sabbath, that the
body returns to dust no more to rise. Hence, Christ is
neither to save the soul nor thebodyfrom sin; and as there
is nothing else to be saved, it follows that my opponent
does not believe that Christ will save men from sin in
any sense! But if the spirit, being separated from its
polluted habitation, can be understood asa salvation from
sin, then Christ coming to save men from sin, was to kill
them, and separate their souls from their bodies; for my
friend teaches, that no man can be freed, or saved from
sin, until death! Hence, as Christ did not kill any body,
but just let them die as they always haddone, he did nor
therefore save any one from sin, and consequentlycame
for nothing at all!
As no man can be freed from sin,until death separates
his soul from his body, it is our^duty therefore, to kill as
many men as possible: for we are to be instruments, m
the hand of God, of turning many to righteousness, and
of converting our fellow creatures from sin to holiness!?
If I believed the doctrine of my opponent, I should arm
myself with a brace of pistols, and shoot every man I
could find in the neighborhood; and I would not be asha­
med of powder and feosi, for it would prove the power
of God unto salvation, to every one that I could bring
under its influence! But says one, yen
Me UNIVERSALISM
well as the rest! Then we would all go to heaven to*
Esther; for my opponent says, a man, when he dies, let
m be ever so wicked, has nothing to do but to regale
his happy spirit in the elysian fields of the paradise of
God. Those cruel persecutors of which he spake so
pathetically in his last speech, were the greatest bene­
factors of mankind that ever lived! Alpha said it chilled
his heart to think how many myriads of men and women
they had put to death, and hurried into eternity! But
he should rather rejoice to think they had succeeded in
making so many sinners holy and happy, by thus send­
ing them off to heaven in droves! What a pity the
apostles had not have understood this way of converting
sinners! Paul succeeded admirably in this business be­
fore his conversion, but it is not recorded that he ever
made a man holy, or turned one sinner to God, after he
became an apostle, although that was the very object for
which Christ appeared to him! The true philanthropist,
under the influence of this doctrine, whenever he saw a
man in trouble, or his familyin distressed circumstances,
would kill them and send them to heaven! This would
be perfectly safe on his part, as it would be overruled for
his good, and it would be conferring on them the most
unspeakable blessing!
More than this; ml the wicked in former times, whom
God swept away with the besom of destruction, instead
of being punished, were honored with the most distin­
guished and exalted favors, which any beings have ever
yet enjoyed. God threatened the wicked antediluvians
with a dreadful calamity, but he deceived himself, and
them likewise; for instead of punishing them as they ex­
pected, he sent a flood upon them, and took them all
through the door of death into the enjoyment of unspeak­
able felicity! But Noah, instead of sharing the same
blessed and glorious privilege, was compelled to wander
up and down this unfriendly world, three hundred and
fifty years, after the wicked were safe in heaven, subject
to pain and infirmity, and Anally to experience the or-
deal o f death as much as any body e\ae,enA ot&y
AGAINST ITSELF.
heaven at last! Thus the wicked had a decided advan­
tage over Noah, and would hold it to all eternity! For
there would never be a period when the wicked would
not be three hundred and fifty years in advance of
Noah, in point ofcelestial enjoyment!
When the Lord thought to punish the wicked Sodom­
ites, he deceived them; for they found themselves, after
one pang, transported into the beatific, and paradisical
presence of God. But righteous Lot, for his unfeigned
obedience to the laws of God, was debarred from the
unspeakable privilege of sitting down in the kingdom of
glory above: but was compelled to remain for many
years, in this world of sorrow, vexation, and disappoint­
ment, whilst those filthy and detestable fellows, wno had
vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their un­
lawful deeds, were in full possession ofheavenly blessed­
ness,—drinking of the erystal fountains of eternal love,
and basking in the sunshine of immortal deliverance!
Such was also the case with the hosts of Fharoah in the
Red Sea; the Canaanites whom Joshua slew with a
sword, and such was the case with the wicked Jews,
when the Roman army was sent upon them for rejecting
the Saviour, and drove them all out of this suffering,
miserable, and sinful world, into the presence of God,
where there isfullness ofjoy, and at his right hand, where
there are pleasures forever more! Whilst the humble
and devoted followers of Christ, instead of being taken
to heaven as the wicked Jews were, had to wander in
sheep-skins and goat-skins, in dens and caves of the
earth,—being destitute, afflicted, and tormented;—expe­
riencing trials of cruel mockings, and scourgings; yea,
moreover, ofbonds andimprisonmerits; theywere stoned,
they were sawn asunder, and were tortured with the
most lingering and excruciating deaths that the ingen­
uity of men and devils could invent; whilst those wicked
Jews, who were killed by the Romans, to use the lan­
guage of my opponent, were regaling their happy spirits,
in traversing the eJ/sian fields of the paxastoae GoA'i
370 UNIVERSALISM
4Thus Pharoah and his mighty hosts.
Had God-like honors given:
A pleasant breeze, brought them with ease
And took them safe to heavenI’
4So all the filthy Sodomites,
When God bade Lot retire,
Went in a trice, to paradise,
On rapid wings of fire!’
4Likewise the guilty Canaanites,
To Joshua’s sword were given;
The sun stood still, that he might kill,
And pack them off to heavenl’
4God saw those villains were too bad,
To own that fruitful land;
He therefore took the rascals up,
To dwell at his right handl9
The men who lived before the flood,
Were made to feel the rod;
They miss’d the ark, but, like a lark,
Were wash’d right up to God!
But Noah he, because you see,
Much grace to him was given;
He had to toil, and till the soil,
And work his way to heaven!
The wicked Jews, who did refuse,
The Lord’s commands to do;
Were hurried strait to heaven’s gate,
By Titus and his crew!
How happy is the sinner’s state,
When he from earth is driven;
He knows it is his certain fate.*
To go strait up to Y\eaven\
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 37i
There’s Judas too9another Jew,
Whom some suppose accurs’d;
4Yet with a chord he beat his Lord,
And got to heaven first!’
My friend looks with horror upon the idea of men
committing suicide. But if his doctrine be true, it is the
most fortunate and blessed act they can possiblyperform*
But he says men have become religious maniacs from
the fear of endless perdition, andhave ended their exist­
ence in this wretched manner! But no man will be­
come a religious maniac, or be led to commit suicide, if
properly instructed in the religion of Christ, let hell and
damnation be preached to him ever so much; for he is
then told just what he has to do, in order to secure eter­
nal life, and that there is no necessity of his going to
hell, if there were five hundred of them. No man under
such teaching will ever become deranged, so as to put
the poisonous bowl to his mouth. But teachingmen, as
my opponent does, that they are creatures of fate,—that
they can donothing, only as^ome superiorpowermoves
them; and they, believing such to be the fact, look into
the bible and see that they must do something, or be
eternally lost,—this is what leads« to suicide: the false
and infamous dogma of fatality, amalgamated with the
scriptural and restraining doctrine of eternal punish­
ment! This is not only what leads tosuicide,but the the­
ory of my opponent—the doj^maof fatality,—led to one
of the most bloody persecutions that the hitsory of time
records. I refer to the infidels of France, who were
firm believers that man was a creature of fate; and I
presume my opponent will not contend that they were
stimulated to that persecution by believing in future
punishment of any kind!
But suppose men, under the influence of insanity, and
believing in endless perdition, should commit suicide;
my friend should not let it benumb his soul, or chill his
heart, as much as he let on for in his last speech. Whatl
a soul-benumbing and horrible \dee^ \.o ^
372 UNIVERSALISM
man should slip off to heaven, out of this wicked
troublesome world, into the inconceivable enjoyment of
perfect and endless fruition?! My opponent must pos­
sess a singular heart, to be chiUed and withered at such a
glorious transition, from the abodes of wretchedness to
the realms of extatic bliss! But should he commit sui­
cide believing as he does, so far from his being derang­
ed, 4 should consider that his most sober moment, and the
most rational and consistent act of his whole life! At
that instant he would obey the injunction of the apostle,
perhaps for the first time: “Think soberly, as you ought
to think.”
My friend’s doctrine being true, that no man can be
free from sin in this life, and that death is the ordeal of
freedom, he is morally and scripturally bound to commit
suicide, and it can be demonstrated beyond all contro­
versy. He is morally bound, from the tact, that a desire
for happiness is the first law of our nature; and my op-
C
onent believes that sin and misery are always insepara-
ly connected. Hence it is a man’s duty, out of love to
himself, to put an end to his existence, in order to be
perfectly free from sin and its consequent misery, and
come into the enjoyment of perfect bliss! He is scrip­
turally bound to commit suicide; for it is positively en­
joined: “Be ye holy, for I am holy” [1 Pet. 1. 16.]
Not only so, but we are commanded to “perfect holiness
in the fear of the Lord.” [2 Cor. 7. 1.] Now, since no
man can become holy as God is holy, only in the article
of death; and as becoming holy, or perfecting holiness, is
here made a personal duty; it follow’
s hence, that death
is a personal duty, and that suicide is one of the greatest,
most positive, and most sublime injunctions of the bi-
ble!
But my friend quotes the text: “He that is dead is
freed from sin,” ami applies it to a natural death, or the
death of the body. Permit me to adopt the same meth­
od of quoting and applying the word, and he will tell us
romore about the horrible idea of suicide/ Christ says:
I lay down my life that 1 rcvvgjat take \va%a\a% mate
A G A IN ST I T S E L F . 373
taketh it from me, but I lay it down of m yself” Peter
says: 4
4Christ has set us an example, that we should
follow in his steps” Hence, we must let no man take
our life from us, but follow the example of our blessed
Master, and lay k down of ourselves! as he says in
another place: 4
4Except a man take his cross, and fob
low me; he cannot be m y disciple” But do you say you
are bound to love your present life? Not so; for Christ
says: 4
4
Except you hate your own life also, you are not
worthy of m e”
But for additional proof, in favor of suicide, listen to
the invitations of the Saviour: “Come unto me, all ye that
labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest;”
and how can this be done, but by voluntarily leaving
this sinful world, and going to heaven, “where Christ sib
teth on the right hand of God.9 The Father also invites:
“Come oatfrom among them, and be ye separate, and
touch not the unclean thing” and again: “Come out of
her, O m y people, that ye be not partakers of her sins,
and that ye receive not other plagues.” And as this earth,
with all it contains is unclean and sinful; and as all men
are the people of God, the injunction to come out of her,
is unquestionably to leave this sinful world bv suicides
and “L ay hold on the hope set before you” And when­
ever you form the resolution to 4
4choose that good part
that shall not be taken awayfrom you”just say with the
prodigal, “I will arise and go to m y Father!” 4
4
Look not
behind you, neither continue in all the plains” And as
you cut the cable that binds you to earih, you will hear
it said: 4
4W ell done thou good andfaithful servant,enter
thou into thejoys of thy L ord” Dread not the momen­
tary pain of dying, for “these light afflictions which are
butfo r a moment, will work outfo r you a fa r more ex­
ceeding and eternal weight ofglory ” Remember: you
are commanded to “deny yourself” and “endure hard­
ness as a good soldier ”with the exceeding great and pre­
cious promise: “He that overcometh,shall not be hurt of
the second death” Slack not your
glorious enterprise, but 4
4add to i/our Jatth «murage?
374 U N iV E R S A L IS M
then “fight the good fight offa ith and lay hold an eter­
nal life ” And since it is most manifestly evident,that
“He that is dead is freed from sin ” I beseech you to
“go and sin no m ore!” And as you start on your
heavenly journey, say with the aposile, “ Shall toe con­
tinue in sin?—Godforbid” “To die is gain? and “to
depart and be with Christ is fa r better” You would
thus literally “put off the old man with his deeds” and
“crucify theflesh with the affections and lu sts” • The
testimony of raul would then befulfilled,and “Old things
would pass away, and behold all things would become
new”
Another strong reason, why my opponent should ex­
change this tempestuous ocean of sin and sorrow, for a
world of unsullied and beatific fruition, is, that the apos­
tles have also set us an example; and that “toe are to be
followers of them, even cls they were also o f Christ
and my Universalist friends you have recorded for your
special benefit, the death of one of them, namely, your
beloved brother, St. Judas Iscariot, “who staggered not
at the promise of God through unbelief” but went to
heaven on a rope ladder! And the Saviour most appro­
priately enjoins: “Go thou and do likewise” This is
undoubtedly that to which the Scriptures allude: “ The
kingdom of heaven suffered violence,and the violent took
it by force” You need have no fears with regard to
the expenses of the voyage, as they will be but trifling.
Take six cents worth of laudanum, and a few yards of
Judas’s rope, to keep it down: and when “the time ofyour
departure is at hand” say to the deluded Orthodox,
Good-by, gentlemen, “Iw ill show you m y fa ith by my
works” You will undoubtedly swing safely; for “I f
. you do these things you shall never fa ll, for so an en­
trance shall be administered unto you abundantly, into
the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ.” But should you have any misgivings, with re­
gard to this plan, you can get to heaven, if you prefer
by a far shorter cut, that is, a cut from ear to ear!
You will thus make sure wot\i tot eternity
your hand trem ble, as the Wife
AGAINST IT SE L F. 875
tot it not deter you from being consistent, as it will be a
proofofyoursincerity,inobeying the apostle’sinjunction:
u W ork outyour salvation with fear and tr e m b lin g It
can then be said¡«yourfa ith hath saved you,” and upon
your tomb-stones, shall be inscribed to your everlasting
memory: Behold a Universalist indeed, in whom
there is no guile!”
But enough of this, I can prove any thing, and every
tiling from the bible, by actbpting the system of quoting
and applying scripture, made use of by my opponent,
and his brethren generally. But if my friend should ac­
cuse me of plagiarism, and of garbling authors, I have
only to admonish him in the language of an old maxim:
4
4
Satan should never reprove sin/”
But he has finally made a calculation, of the just amount
of punishment, due for transgression. Sin, he tells us,
is finite, and hence finite punishment, or punishment of
a temporal character, is all that justice demands. He
also informs us, that actions in time, cannot, in any case,
efiect us in eternity! But let me ask my shrude, and
erudite friend, if the sufferings and death of Messiah,
were not actions performed in time? and if they do not
in their effects and consequences extend into, and affect
us, in eternity!. He will most unhesitatingly answer
yes: for Universalists, as well as others, admit, that our
future and endless felicity depends, entirely, as far as
merit is concerned, upon the actions of Christ here in
time. If such were not the case, we could well soy
with the apostle*: I f in this life only, we have hope in
Christ, we are of all men most miserable.” Now if
Christ’s actions towards us in time, extend into eternity,
and in their effects, endure forever; are not the actions
of men, which caused those actions on the part of Christ,
equal in duration ? The audience must see that they
necessarily are! My opponent is compelled to take one
of two grounds, and I know not which he will prefer, ei­
ther that Christ was an infinite being; or else that he was
a being, finite like ourselves! If he whypXAW
proves to a demonstration that one swa Ha Hn^aaxe^Sxoww
the fact, that it coat the life’s blood ot the
376 UNIVERSALIS M
God to destroy it; and still, even this cannot be done,
by this infinite remedy, without the exertion, and co­
operation of the finite power of man: and consequent­
ly, if one sin is so much more than infinite, that it re­
quires an infinite and finite exertion combined, to over­
come it; how much more than infinite, would be ten
thousand crimes, or a whole lifetime spent in rebellion
against Jehovah? If my opponent will work this sum
out by the single rule of three, and give us the answer,
the audience can then judge something near correctly
of the exceeding sinfulness of sin. He can state the
question thus: As (me sin, is to finite power over and
above infinity; so are 10,000 sins to the answer !
But should he choose the second ground, that Christ
was nothing but a finite being like ourselves; theu it
proves, that a finite being can perform a single act,
which will have, not only an infinite and endless effect,
but will produce that same effect in millions of cases,—
all that will be eternally saved by his death! Now if
one finite act, can produce effects equal to millions of
infinities; what amount of consequence, will 10,000 fi­
nite acts produce? This sum can also be ciphered out
by the same rule, and according to the same statement.
My opponent contends that punishment should always
be proportioned to sin. I admit it, and hence punish­
ment must be infinite, for, according to the foregoing
argument, such is the case with sin. And it cannot be
otherwise than infinite, for it is committed against the
infinite God: and as certain as the infinite Jehovah is
offended at the sins of men, so certain is it an infinite
offense! Can an infinite God be offended, and that of­
fense be finite? Impossible! If my opponent should
take the ground, that those sins, which have 4
4grieved,1
n
u insulted,” 4
4provoked,” and 4
4offended” the Almighty,
and which make him 4
4angry with the wicked every
day,” are only finite; it proves, to a demonstration, that
the Almighty Jehovah is nothing but a finite being!
Thus my friend is compelled to admit the transgressions
o fmen infinite, or else deny the \nl\n\Vj ell latSL Ven-
* vnent, as m y opponent, admits^ \%e motvoe taxsst
AGAINST I T S E L F . 377
men from the commission of crime. Query: Is this mo­
tive held out by infinite benevolence? If so, is it an in­
finite motive? If so, must it not be infinite punishment?
It certainly must; asfinite punishment cannot be an infi­
nite motive! From this it follows that sin is an infinite
evil; and this is in exact accordance with the bible: “ Is
not thy wickedness great, and thine iniquities INFI­
NITE ?” [Job 22. 5.] My opponent is compelled, on his
own principles, to admit infinite punishment, for punish­
ment and sin, he tells us, must always be in proportion
with each other; and as we have positive testimony that
one is infinite, the other must therefore be also.
But if sin be not infinite, where was the necessity of
an infinite God bringing into requisition his infinite wis­
dom, power and goodness, to put a check to it! If it
were only finite, it would have required only a finite
cause to annul it. But it was of such a heinous char­
acter, that it caused God to exercise his infinite benevo­
lence in sending down an infinite Saviour, who offered
himself up an infinite sacrifice, to make an infinite atone­
ment, in order to bring about an infinite system of re­
conciliation, that men, being redeemed from their infi­
nite transgressions, might be made heirs to an infinite
inheritance, and enjoy it forever, in the presence of the
infinite God!
But if sin be measured by man, as my friend thinks
it should be, still it jdoes nothing for the doctrine he is
endeavoring to advocate; for man is not finite, only as
regards his mortal body. His soul or spirit is an infinite
principle, and will endure as long as God himself; and
as we have before proved, that sin originates, and has its
seat in the soul, it must therefore be the product of an
infinite principle; and if my opponent’s logic be correct,
that our sins are like ourselves, it is demonstration in
favor of the infinity of sin! But if sin be like its author,
as my friend contends, then he is bound to admit its in*
finity; for he has contended, since the commencement of
this discussion, that the infinite God was the author of it.
Hence, let him turn which way he there
32 g o *
«78 U N IV E R S AL1SM
mg this conclusion. He may tell me, that sins commit­
ted under the old covenant were punished only with tem­
poral destruction, and that consequently they were only
finite. But suppose we should admit, that sins committed
against Moses were of a finite character: this does not
settle the question with regard to sins committed against
Christ! The apostle, in speaking of Christ, says: “ For
this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses,
inasmuch, as he who hath builded the nouse, hath more
honor than the house.” (Heb. 3. 3.) From this it is
evident, that Christ is as much greater than Moses, as a
human being is greater than a heap of inanimate matter.
This certainly makes an infinite difference. Hence
punishment for sins committed against Christ, must be as
much severer than that inflicted for sins committed
against Moses, as Christ is superior to Moses: and as
there is an infinite difference between them, it follows
that sins against Christ are infinite, and must necessarily
deserve. infinite punishment. The true ground upon
this subject has been lost sight of by my opponent en­
tirely. He supposes that sin must be measured by the
dignity of the offender. But such is not the fact. The
meanest slave, might murder the king upon his throne,
as easily as the most dignified nobleman in the whole
realm. Hence the heinousness, or enormity of sin, con­
sists altogether in the'dignity of the character insulted.
“He that despised Moses’s law,” says Paul, “died without
mercy under two or three witnesses; of flow much sorer
punishment suppose ye shall lie be thought worthy, who
hath trodden under foot the Son of God?” (Heb. 10. 28.
20.) 1 answer: just as much sorer than death without
mercy, (which was the very utmost extent of finite pun­
ishment,) as the creator is superior to the thing created;
or as a man is more dignified than a piece of wood!
From this, and the foregoing arguments, it must be evi­
dent to this audience,as well as to my worthy opponent,
that sins committed against God, and against Christ are
infinite offenses, and, as such, must deserve infinite pun-
- ishmenL 1have taken uv>a\\ \W novn\s v
cv\w
vf o^oncnl’s
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . m
last speech, that I now recollect, and will therefore give
Way and hear his defense*
ALPHA’S SIXTH SPEECH*
Gentlemen and ladies: I am still alive; notwithstand­
ing my opponent manifests such uncommon anxiety that
I should commit suicide, I presume he would be glad to
end to live as long as I
He informed us that he replied to all my arguments, or
all he could recollect! He must have a wonderful treach­
erous memory, for the principal argument upon which I
relied in my last speecli, and which I introduced in the
one preceding that, has been passed by with sheer neg­
lect* Those points which he thought he could succeed
in turning into ridicule, he has assailed, and he unques­
tionably deserves a pewter medal, for the extraordinary
dexterity and adroitness with which he can build up
cob-houses, simply for the fun of kicking them over! But
the argument to which he has not replied, is based upon
the true and scriptural design of punishment* I have
quoted several texts of scripture to prove that punish­
ment is always for the good of the offender, and that it
has no other object in view, than his reformation. I shall
not consume time to requote these texts, as I presume
the audience recollects them, if my friend does not. I
intend however to argue the point still farther.
As punishment is to be inflicted for the good of the
offender, it will continue till he is reformed, and no long­
er. This is self evident. Whenever punishment goes
beyond reformation, or ceases to be corrective, it is un­
just and vindictive. But we are not to look upon God,
as possessing such a character as this view of the subject
holds forth: neither could we love him if we did* My
opponent would make us believe, that the God of love,
the Father of mercies, and the God of all consolation and
comfort, was a being to be feared: but this shows the
state of his own soul* His love is not yet perfect; for
John says: “ There is no fear in love,b\A
MO UNIVERSALISM
\
casteth out fear: because feair hath torment. He that
feareth, is not made perfect in love.” (1 Jo. 4. IB.) I
wish to make the people understand, that God is not the !
being he is represented to be: that although he will pun- 1
ish the wicked; yet he is not to be feared, since, like a
a kind father, he chastises us for our profit, that we might
be partakers of his holiness! God never holds out pun­
ishment as an end, but always as a means. Here is
where my friend misunderstands the whole economy of
salvation. He looks at punishment as an evil of a posi­
tive character: but if an evil at all, it is a necessary evil,
as no man can be reformed without it. It is the true
panacea by which the malady of sin is healed. This is I
the only reasonable view of this subject; and in no other i
way could God manifest the character of a father, than
to punish us for our benefit.. What father would see his
child weltering in flames, and not take him out, when he
could do it as well as not: even supposing the child had
transgressed his commands? If the father should not
make his son happy, and deliver him from his suffering
condition, it would be either because he lacked ability
or a disposition. And as God lacks neither ability nor
disposition, he must therefore make all his creatures as
happy as they can be. This being true: way goes the
cruel dogma of endless torment.
But nature, as well as reason, is in favor of Universal
salvation; and opposed to the doctrine of my opponent.
In nature we can see the reason of things, and the adap­
tation of means to ends; but what is the use of a devil,
and a future endless hell? No man can account for this!
yet it is but one absurdity, out of a great multitude which
no man could number, attending the system of ortho­
doxy! Look how God has garnished the earth and the
heavens with riches and beauty?. See how he pours
down the refreshing showers of Tain, and makes the
earth to bring forth food to all alike. Here you see none
of this partiality in the works of nature, which is contin­
ually preached up by our opponents, as the works and
ways o f God. Hence, 1 c\vum tvaXwxe a. and
insurmountable proof in favor of toy ^o*\\aow
. ^
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . 98!
Bat so many facts, and so many different ideas have
presented themselves to my mind, that I had like to have
forgotten the main argument in this discussion, upon
which I started out: that is, the foreknowledge of Ood!
When the discussion commenced, I had intended to
make this my strong ground; but I have been led into so
many other matters, that it is almost too late, (as I have
but one speech more,) to carry out the argument very
extensively! But I shall endeavor to give the audience
an idea of the bearing of this argument^ upon the issue
of this discussion.
I have taken the ground before; but 1 take it now es­
pecially, that foreknowledge does, and must imply fore­
ordination; or that whenever God foreknew that a thing
would take place, he that instant decreed it. My friend
may bring up the idea, as one of his colleagues did in a
recent discussion, that the astronomer may foreknow
and foresee that an eclipse will darken the sun, at such
an hour, and at such a minute: yet his foreknowing it,
will not have the least tendency to bring about that
event! I admit this to be correct: yet it is not a paral­
lel case by any means. The astronomer had no hand
in establishing the laws by which that eclipse was
brought upon the sun at that time. But suppose the
astronomer had created the sun and the moon, and
knew at the same time he was making them, that this
eclipse would.occur at this precise time: and not only
so, but even then he established the law which he knew
would certainly result in that very manner: I ask, did
he not design such an event to take place? You must,
my fellow-citizens, admit he did. The man who makes
a watch, knowing, when he is framing it, that it will run
down in twelve hours after being wound up, designs it
to run that long and no longer. This is an undeniable
fact. Thus it was when God made man. He knew,
when the idea of the creation of man was first conceiv­
ed, all the various, and inconceivably complicated cir­
cumstances and vicissitudes through which he would
pass, from his creation, to the most remote
UNIVERSALISAI
existence. When God said, “ let us make man,” he
knew exactly his destiny, and he made him in such a way,
and gave him such powers and propensities, as he knew
would lead him into just such a course of conduct; and
hence he must, knowing all these circumstances, have
designed him to be just what he is, and just what he ever
will be to all eternity. If any are the eternal loosers by
their existence, God knew it before their creation, and
I do contend, that if God created them with this certain
knowledge before him, he must have designed them to
be, whatever iff the history of time and eternity he
knew they would be. From this there is no way of es­
cape. If any one can evade this conclusion, my oppo­
nent is undoubtedly the man; for he has twisted out of
as many hard places since the commencement of this
debate, Pll venture the assertion, as any other man ever
did in so short a time. I have several other things to
present, in connection with this last argument; but will
reserve them for the next, which will be my closing
speech. I now have the platform effectually laid, for
turning topsyturvy the whole citadel of orthodoxy; and
if that platform be not moved out of the way, his cause
must come down. I hope the audience will bear in mind
my position, that God acting, when he knows that what
he is doing will result in a certain way, designs such to
be the result.
Respected audience: I say with my opponent, that I
hope you will bear in mind the argument last presented,
lintil the close of my s 3ch; when I shall take it into
punishment is now presented, and it is as well fortified
as I ever heard it. I either lost my notes of that argu­
ment, or omitted taking any, and this is the reason why
I did not take it up in my last rejoinder. I am now clad
that such was the case, for not more than one half of the
cnent was then presented.
y friend has taken the broad gcovnvd that all çun-
OMEGA’S SIXTH REPLY.
consideration. The w e argument on the design of
A G A IN S T IT S E L F . S83
ishment is disciplinary, and inflicted for the reforma­
tion of the offender. He quotes a text: 4
4Thou shalt
consider in thy heart, that as a man chasteneth his son,
so the Lord thy God chasteneth thee.” This is true:
When God administers chastisement, or disciplinary
punishment, he does it upon the same principle, that a
father would correct his son. But how is it, when God
takes vengeance upon the wicked? Is this chastise­
ment? By no means. The apostle Paul makes it ob­
ligatory upon the father to correct his son for his bene­
fit: 4
4For what son is he whom the father chasteneth
not!” But he forbids man to take vengeance in any
case whatever, assuring him that4
4Vengeance is mine, I
will repay saith the Lord.” This demonstrates that ven­
geance and chastisement are two things entirely differ­
ent. If not, why enjoin one, and so pointedly forbid the
other? From this it follows, (as chastisement is for the
benefit of the punished, and vengeance is an entirely
different thing,) that vengeance is not executed for the
good of the offender; and as vengeance is punishment, it
follows, beyond controversy, that my friend is wofully
deceived, when he contends that all punishment is dis­
ciplinary. If vengeance be for the good of those upon
whom it is inflicted, why did the apostle forbid men to
inflict it? Did he forbid men to do good to their neigh­
bors? No, for he commands us to 4
4do good to all men,”
aud if vengeance be for the good of man, we have a right
to inflict it.
My friend is altogether mistaken, when he supposes
the reformation of the offender, the only design of pun­
ishment. Punishment may be inflicted for three other
objects, under any well organized government, and these
objects are necessary and essential to the existence of
any government, in its relations to the governor and
subjects. They are 1. To sustain the honor and dignity
of the authority, by which the government is established
and administered. 2. To guard the innocent from the
danger to which they would be exposed, by leVV\o%\!&o
wicked go unpunished. 3* To be an exam^Xe Vo
384 U N IV E R SA LI SM
who should afterwards live ungodly: and 4« The re­
formation of the offender. My opponent appears to be
a man of one idea: hence he can ?ee but one design in
punishment when there are four! Whenever God pun­
ishes the wicked, for trampling under foot his authority,
he does it for the purpose of sustaining his majesty and
honor, and sach punishment can be strictly termed ven-
Íreance» But if its object be simply to reform the of­
ender, it is called chastisement, which is as far from the
idea of vengeance, as day is from night. In not one
instance where vengeance occurs in the bible was it for
the good of the punished; neither is chastisement ever
called vengeance: but its first and leading object, was
to sustain the character and veracity of God, as a wise
and just Lawgiver. Were the Sodomites punished for
their reformation! Not exactly, neither was their pun* '
ishment ever called chastisement. Jude says: they were i
4
4set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of |
eternal fire.” [Jude 7.] The wicked who fell in the 1
wilderness, were not punished for their benefit, but to (
sustain the honor of God, and to be an example to oth* I
ers: 4
4All these things happened unto them for ensam- -
plesy and they are written for our adm onition” [1 Cor. j
10. 11.] In each of these cases, the punishment was
not only an example to others, but also for the purpose
of delivering the godly out of temptation. If pouring
down fire and brimstone upon the heads of men till they
are burned up, be designed for their benefit, in order to
reform them; it is certainly a reformation with a ven­
geance. But the final destruction of the wicked at the
end of time, it may be said, can neither be an example
to others who would afterwards live ungodly, nor add to
the safety of the saints in heaven. But who knows bat
that myriads of those worlds, which are now swimming
in the void immense, will exist ages after the dissolution
of this earth, whose inhabitants will need something of |
this kind as a warning? And Who knows, but that the
ñmü destruction of the wicked will serve to them, as I
the history of Sodom and Gomorrah and inalterable I
AGAINST IT SE L F.
destiny of fallen angels do to us? As regards the safety
of tiie saints, I conclude, that if the wicked, who are so
incorrigible here, as to confront the power and auth' nty
of God; and to endanger the peace and safety of ¿he
saints, should be involuntarily taken to heaven, the
saints would be no safer there than here. But be this as
it may, the veracity of God must be sustained; and he
has threatened the wicked with an everlasting destruc-
tion from his presence, as an infinite motive, to deter
from the commission of crime, and he is bound to inflict
it, as it is impossible for him to lie.
But my opponent says, that whenever punishment
ceases to be corrective, it is unjust and vindictive. He
contends also, that God punishes the wicked every day,
as long as they remain wicked. These two declarations
prove positively, that God is cruel and unjust, if he pun­
ish the wicked at all; for the apostle says: 44Evil men
and seducers wax worse and worse, deceiving and being
deceived.” [2 Tim. 3. 13.] Hence God dare not inflict
punishment upon such characters, upon the peril of his
justice; for they would only grow worse and worse under
it, and consequently it would not be corrective! Now
let my friend avoid this difficulty if he can. God wifl
not punish a man who will not be reformed by it; and
such cases there are in almost innumerable instances!—
All wicked men and seducers, because punishment in
their case would not be corrective, must slip off to heav­
en without any punishment at all: for God would be un­
just and vindictive in punishing them, when their pun­
ishment, so far from' being corrective, would only make
them worse, instead of better! Here then my friend’s
doctrine lets the profligate conscience-seared wretch run
at large, free from all restraint, because God dare not
punish him, if the punishment did not make him better!
But he may say God designed the punishment to reform
him, and, hence it is not unjust. But stop: God designed
it to reform him, and that design be frustrated? Why
then may not the design of universal aalva&yct VfeSxev
anted upon the same principle!
33
m U N IV E R S A L IS M
If all punishment be designed only as a mild chastise­
ment, as my friend argues; it is singular that God should
express himself as he does, when declaring his intention
to punish the wicked. Suppose a father is about to cor*
rect his son for misconduct, and designs only adminis- 1
tering a few disciplinary stripes for his benefit, in order
^to reform him, and makes use of the following language:
*Come up here sir: “ Vengeance is mine, and I will repay
h.” 4
4My fury is waxed hot, and my wrath is kindled
against you,” even 4
4wrath without mixture.” 4
4Good
were it for you had you never been born;” for 441 will
never forgive you, in this world, nor in that which is to
come;” but will4
4punish you with an everlasting destruc­
tion in the lake that bumeth with fire and brimstone,
where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched,
and where you shall be tormented day and night forever
and ever, with hypocrites and unbelievers; and where
there shall be weeping and wailing, and gnashing of
teeth.” You “ shall have no rest day nor night;” for you
shall experience a far sorer punishment than dying with­
out mercy, when “ indignation and wrath, tribulation and
anguish ” shall be poured upon you, and you shall hear
me say: “ Depart from me thou cursed boy, into ever­
lasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels!IP-
One of three conclusions must the boy come to, when '
he hears his father make such horrible threats: either 1.
That he has become perfectly insane: or 2. That he is
jesting; or 3. That endless damnation is to be his inev­
itable doom, just as certain as his father has power suffi­
cient to inflict it! No man, with a thimble mil of moth­
er-wit, would think, that by such terrible denunciations,
he meant any thing more or less than eternal perdition.
Yet my opponent would endeavor to make us think, that
all such fearful threatenings, which is but a tithe of what
the bible contains, only convey the idea of a mild dis­
ciplinary correction, designed solely for the benefit of
the transgressor!!”
B a t i f it be true, as my fnend allpunish­
ment is designed for the good oSthe o^exvdet^ea
AGAINST IT S E L F . 387
cea, to cure the disease of sin; then all the curses of the
bible are immediately converted into blessings. Would
my opponent, if he were very sick, consider that the phy­
sician was going to curse him, if he should come to ad­
minister a dose of medicine, in order to cure his disease?
According to this doctrine, when God threatened men
with punishment, it signifies in every case a blessing, as
it is invariably designed for the benefit of the punished.
Thus we read: 44Depart from me ye blessed, into ever­
lasting medicine, prepared for the devil and his angels.”
[Math. 25. 41.] 4
4Who shall turn the heart of the fath­
ers to the children, and the heart of the children to the
fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a blessing.”
[Mai. 4T 6.] Sodom and Gomorrah were 4
4set forth for
an example, enjoying the blessing of eternal medicine.”
[Jude 8.] 44Tne fearful, and unbelieving, and the abom­
inable, and murderers and whoremongers, and sorce­
rers and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in
the lake which is blessed with medicine and brimstone,
which is the second d o s e [Rev. 21. 8.] 4
4The Lord
Jesus shall be revealed from neaven in flaming medicine,
pouring mercy on them that know not God, and that
obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall
be blessed with an everlasting panacea from the presence
of the Lord and from the glory of his power.” [2Th. 1.
7-9.] What a blessed figure Uiversalism cuts with the
bible! But if all curses are blessings, why not make it
a good rule, and let it work both ways? Thus: 44Then
shall the King say to them on his right hand: Come ye
cursed of my father, inherit the kingdom, prepared for
you from the foundation of the world.” [Math. 25. 34.]
^In thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be cursed.”
[Gen. 22. 18.] 4
4Cursed are the dead that die in the
Lord.” [Rev. 14. 13.] 4
4Cursed are the poor in spirit,
for their’s is the kingdom of heaven.” 4
4Ctirsed are they
which mourn, for they shall be comforted.” 4
4Cursed
are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.” 4
4
Cwr-
eed are they which do hunger and thirst after t\$$\teewsr
nessf for they shall be filled.” “Cursed axe
888 UNI VERBALISM
for they shall obtain mercy.” wCursed are the pure m
heart, for they shall see God.” uCursed are the peace­
makers, for they shall be called the children of God.”
[Math. 5. 3-9.J In the language of my opponent: How
transcendantly sublime is the faith of Universalism?
But he tells us that punishment is the medicine for sin,
and that no man can be reformed without it. Let us
now look at a case: A man lives in sin all his life, grows
worse and worsen the longer he lives, and is punished all
the while: and finally, when he becomes the most de­
praved, and consequently the most deserving of punish­
ment, he is struck instantly dead in the very act of com­
mitting murder; and thus goes into eternity unreformed.
Now since no man can be reformed without punishment,
it follows, incontrovertibly, that this man will remain unre­
formed to all eternity ; for my friend has argued strong­
ly, since the commencement of this discussion, that pun­
ishment will in no case extend into eternity! Hence,
all those who die in their sins, or die unreformed, will
remain sinners eternally: and as sin and misery are in­
separably connected, as my friend contends, it proves
endless misery to a demonstration! But should he back
out of his old ground, and admit that punishment may
extend into eternity, in order to reform those who go
there unreformed, still it will not better the matter in
the least; for, as we have a right to infer what will be
from what has been, wc can draw no other conclusion,
than that they will continue to grow tvorse and worse in
eternity, notwithstanding all their punishment, tor such
verily was the case with them here! Will he tell us,
that surrounding circumstances will be more favorable
in eternity, for their reformation, than they are here?
Not so: for as one man goes into the future state unre­
formed, myriads of others will go in the same way, and
be hail! fellows, well met! They can thus, instead of
being weakened, assist and co-operate with each other,
in carrying out their hellish schemes of wickedness, un­
til they get as bad as the devil himself; who, methinks,
would be a hard candidate to V
>evioxVeA ono\ vote a
AGAINST ITSELF. 389
Christian, since he has been taking medicine for nearly
six thousand years, and is not much better now , I reck­
on, than he was at first!!
But my opponent tells us, that punishment is always a
means, and never an end! In this again he is mistaken.
Paul says, concerning the wicked, who were past being
reformed, either in lime or eternity: “ WHOSE END
IS DESTRUCTION.” [Phil. 3.18/] Disciplinary pun­
ishment is always a means, I admit; but when punish­
ment amounts to a destruction, it is no longer disciplin­
ary, neither is it any longer a means ; but is in reality
the end, which the wicked bring upon themselves by
their evil conduct. The chastisement spoken of in the
12th of Hebrews, which my friend quoted, was punish­
ment, when it was used only as a means: for the apostle
says, it is “ for our profit, that we might be partakers of
his holiness.” But who will be partakers of his holiness,
through this chastisement? My opponent did not quote
the whole text or it would need no remark. “ Never­
theless, alterwaids, it \ ieldeth the peaceable fruits of
righteousness, to them who are EXERCISED thereby?
Bm how ¡ibout those who will not be exercised by it?
Th<.’\ v
nill riot be reformed by it, of course, and conse­
quent! \ it will not‘work in them the peaceable fruits of
righteousness!
Bi t die strongest reason of all, why punishment is not
alwn\ s l«»r the good of the sinner, is because it is some­
times inflicted without mercy! If it were for his good,
it would, ns I have already shown, be a blessing, and
would consequently be an exhibition of the purest mer­
cy. Such is the case with all disciplinary punishment,
or chastisement; it is administered in mercy: but when
it amounts to vengeance, it is administered injustice; but
mercy is utterly excluded: and hence it cannot be for the
benefit of the transgressor. Am I sustained by the law
and the testimony? “ He that despised Moses’s law, died
without mercy? [Heb. 10. 28.] Was this for his benefit
A^.ou : •• fin-u-efore will I also deal in fury, ^uengeauce^
iijitw e y e suali not spare, neither wi\\ IWdNfc pUy?
HIT
980 U N IV E R S A L ISM
8.18 J When God deals infu ry , or exercises vengeance,
it is not as a father chastises his son, for it is without
mercy, and without pity! Is such punishment for the
good of the punished?
But my fnend asks: would a father see his son per­
ishing in the flames, and not help him out, if he could?
and has not our heavenly Father as much compassion as
man? All I have to do, in answering that question, is,
to get my friend to try the experiment. Let him get
drunk, and fall into the fire, and see how long he would
lay there, before the Almighty would pull him out! Or
let him go out and crawl into the snow, and wait for
God to help him out, and he will lay there till doom’s
day. His earthly father might take compassion on him,
and help him; yet God does not, and will not do it.—
Perhaps at this very instant, there is a ship in a storm,
with five hundred passengers, all just about going to the
bottom of the ocean. How easily could the Almighty
say: 44Peace, be still;” yet he does not, and they go
down amid cries for mercy. Would not the President
of the United States have stayed the wind, and calmed
the tempestuous ocean, had he possessed power ade­
quate to the task? He certainly would; yet the Al­
mighty did not, although one word would have smooth­
ed the bosom of the boisterous deep, as the polished
surface of the granite marble.
My friend concludes, that if God does not make all
men as happy as they can be, he lacks either ability or
disposition. But God has just as much ability and dis­
position now, as he ever will have; and thus the con­
clusion is avoidable, that all men are just now.as happy
as they ever can be! Hence, my opponent is.compelled
to admit, that God cannot possibly make some men hap­
pier than to keep them in their sins forever!
But the feelings of an earthly father is no test of the
feelings of God. It is the natural feeling, and inclina­
tion of the father to screen his son from the-demands of
justice, when he has been guilty of some capital offense.
But who can impute sucta a. ^ —
a g a i n s t i t s e l f .
3 once passed a law against parents9 screening their
ildren from the demands of justice, which proves to a
monstration, that in cases of stubbornness and rebel-
n, justice demands more than chastisement: “ If a
in have a stubborn and rebellious son, which will not
ey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother,
d that when they have chastened him, will not hearken
ito them; then shall his father and his mother lay hold
ihim, and bring him out unto the elders of the city, and
to the gate of his place: and they shall say unto the
iers of the city: this our son is stubborn and rebellious,
will not obey our voice, he is a glutton and he is a
unkard: and all the men of his city shall stone him
Ith stones that he die” [Deut 21.18-21.] Thus, after
astisement was resorted to, and it proved ineffectual,
must then die without mercy, or in other words, ven-
ance must be taken. My friend would hardly select
ch a father, to prove his doctrine by; yet it is precisely;
bat God commanded! It is certainly an uphill bust*
ss, and my opponent has found it so, to prove Univer-
lism from our limited ideas of God. The Sodomites
ight have reasoned the eyes out of the angels, when
ey came to warn them of their destiny! Why, God
too good to destroy us. What! talk about a God of
?e,—the Father of our spirits, pouring down fire and
imstone upon the heads of his children! Not so: here
3 are,—we did not create ourselves, and God knew
fore he made us what would be our destiny, and had
seen that such was to be our end, he would most cer*
inly have withheld our existence! More than this:—
)d does not punish, only for the good of the offender,
order to secure his reformation: and what good do you
ink it would do us to be roasted to death in fire and
imstoneT How could such punishment produce re-
mation? What earthly father would be eo cruel, as
pour fire and brimstone upon the heads of his offspring,
d see them bum to death! How much less would
>d,who is infinitely better than any earthly parent can.
smUy bet Thus could the Sodoautaa
U N IT E R S A LIS M
\
phized, and logically inferred, that the angels were i
preaching a false doctrine, and that no such dreadful i
calamity should ever come upon them! But the fire and
brimstone burnt up their philosophy, and left them naked
and exposed to the ire of infinite wrath!
My friend comes to the conclusion, that God is' not to
be feared. This is perfectly compatible with his other
views: for ifGod punishes men only for their good, where
is there necessity or ground for fear? But here again,
is my opponent m direct opposition to the whole tenor
of revelation. 4
4Work out your salvation with fea r and
trem bling” [Phil. 2.12.] 4
4Let us thereforefea r, lest a
promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of
you should seem to come short of it.” -[Heb. 4. 1.]—
*
4Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade
men.” [2 Cor. 5.11.] 4
4Let us have grace, whereby we
may serve God acceptably, with reverence and godly
/ear, for our God is a consuming fire ” [Heb. 12.28,29.]
u lt is afearful thing to fall into the hands of the living
God.” [Ibid* 10. 31.] Such is a sample of the testimony
in direct contradiction to my friend’s theory: and can it
be possible, that a doctrine so diametrically opposed to
the bible, can be the truth? It some how finds advo­
cates,—true or false!
But there is a text in John, which my friend thinks in
favor of the position that God is not to be feared.—
4
4There is no fear in love;» but perfect love casteth out
fear: because fear hath torment: he that feareth is
not made perfect in love.” [1 John 4.18.] But suppose
this does teach what he thinks it does; it would only be
arraying the bible against itself. But the apostle, in the
verse preceding this text, tells us what he is speaking
of, and what it is that the Christian does not fear. 4
4Here­
in is our love made perfect that we may have boldness
m the day ofjudgm ent” [Verse 17.] No man who loves
the Lord, and obeys his commandments^will fear the day
o fjudgm ent:—4
4There \s no (such>>tear \n\cNe'
feet love casteth out (all sucK) fenv. hecanse
hath torm ent: he that feareth (the day of
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 893
not made perfect in love.” My friend would do well to
take into consideration, when he reads a text, what the
writer has before him.
But nature, he thinks, is against me. God sends down
the refreshing showers of rain, and makes the sun to
shine on all alike. True: but what good will all this do
us, if we do not improve it in cultivating the soil?—
The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; he
shall therefore beg for bread in harvest and have noth­
ing.” Notwithstanding 4
iGod makes his sun to shine on
the evil and the good, and sendeth rain upon the just
and the unjust,” yet he will let a man starve to death,
if he will not attend to the ordinances of nature, and re­
ceive the bounties of providence, in God’s own appoint­
ed way! Just so, has God made provisions for tho spir­
itual necessities of man, in the plan of salvation. The
Son of Righteousness was given for us all, but the man
who will not receive his benefits, by attending to the or­
dinances of religion, will be as certain of losing all inter­
est in Christ, and consequently eternal felicity, as the
man is certain of death, who will not comply with the
demands, or ordinances of nature! Hence, nature is
against Universalism; and as the God of nature is the
God of the bible, my friend is compelled to give his doc­
trine up! All the blessings of providence are suspended
upon conditions, although the blessings themselves are
freely provided, and extended to all alike. How then
can my opponent infer an unconditional heaven, from
the system and operations of nature? I fear his purblind
theology will lead him into difficulty, unless he come out
like a man and give it up.
Every thing in nature goes to prove, first the prepar­
ation, and then the enjoyment of the blessing. Spring
is the time to prepare for summer, summer for autumn,
and autumn for winter. That which nature has allot­
ted to spring, is not to be put off till summer; and the
business of summer cannot be delayed till autumn; nei­
ther can the work assigned to autumn be
w interT hus every thing in nature sustain* tine
394 U N IV E R S A L IS M
of probation. Suppose my friend should act consistent­
ly, and preach the same doctrine concerning nature, that
he does with reference to the bible. He convenes a
congregation of farmers together, and commences: “God
is infinite in wisdom, power, and goodness;—he is good
to all, and his tender mercy is over all his works. God
is love, and loves all men alike, and will be infinitely
better to all mankind, than an earthly father can be to
his own dear offspring; and hence you will all be certain
of an abundant harvest next-fall, whether you plow,
sow your grain, or make any preparations for it, or not.
You remember the covenant with Noah: that ‘summer
and winter, seed-time and harvest, should continue,’and
will God be guilty of breaking his own covenant? By
no means: harvest must then certainly continue! It
cannot be otherwise: for how can God be good to all, if
he should give them nothing to eat, and thus let them
starve to death? It is true, it is right, and best for you
to work, and cultivate the soil, for God has commanded
it, and it is necessary in order to your enjoyment before
harvest. You will feel better to exercise yourselves, and
you will have a clear conscience, and enjoy better health
than if you should be idle. But still an abundant har­
vest is just as certain if you do not work, as though you
do.” No doubt the farmers would at once be taken with
the idea of getting such a cheap harvest: and although
they might all be willing to admit, that men would feel
better to work than to be idle, yet they would play,
notwithsanding; for who would have so little sense as to
plow and sow, when he was just as certain of a crop
without it? It is true, they might occasionally feel hun­
gry before harvest, if they did not work; but still, the
absolute certainty of plenty, would make their hunger
easy to be borne; and knowing that God was so good,
that he would not let them die, they would play any
how, and contend that if they should be hungry, it would
only give them a better appetite for the coming feast!
And they would even laugh at the \>oor deluded farmer,
v/ho had so little brains, as to thvcvVhevnusx
395
A G A IN S T I T S E L F .
by the sweat of his face! But when harvest comes, my
opponent’s converts go out to their fields, expecting to find
ihem lined with the rich products of nature: but, to the ut­
ter destruction of their hopes, they see nothing but a bar­
ren waste: whilst their orthodox neighbors are thrusting
in their sickles, and gathering richly the golden sheaves!
But these Universalian farmers, poor fellows, must starve
to death,notwithstanding God is love, and notwithstand­
ing his infinity of wisdom, power, and goodness!
But still farther. Every thing in nature, is under the
influence of two equal powers. The earth, in its revo­
lution round the sun, is equally governed by two forces
acting in unison upon it. The centripetal force attract­
ing it to the sun; and the centrifugal, propelling it the
contrary direction. Should the centripetal overpower
the centrifugal, the earth, would be whirled to the great
center, and confusion and chaos would be the inevitable
result. But should the centrifugal overcome the centri­
petal, the contrary effect must ensue;—the earth would
leave her orbit, and fly uncontrolled through regions of
unlimited space. But both these forces operating equal­
ly upon the earth, cause it to keep its proper orbit, and
to perform its revolutions in the most perfect order and
harmony! The vegetable creation is equally under the
control of two influences—the root in the ground, and
the top in the air. Take it up, and leave it wholly in
the air, and it will die. Cover it entirely under ground,
and it cannot live. So is man, as a moral being, under
the influence of two equal and antipodal powders, name­
ly: hope and fear. Let him hope for that, which he fears
he will loose, and if any exertion can be made on his
part, adequate to securing the desired object, that exer­
tion will be made! But let him hope for a thing, and
desire it ever so much; yet if he has no fear of losing the
desired object, will such a hope cause him to act? Nay
verily! But let that hope be balanced by fear, and it
will produce exertion. Hope is a powerful incentive to
action, when properly balanced*, but vf\W ^ ^
feet by itself. Induce a man to Yvopo for
896 U N 1 V E R S A L IS M
harvest, which will be certain, whether he cultivates the
soil or not, and such hope will never produce action.
But make him hope to get a crop, if he till the ground;
and if he will not, make him fear he will starve to death,
and if any thing can be done on his part, that will secure
the object desired, he will most unquestionably do it—
Hence the necessity of having the hope of immortality
balanced by fear, which is equal to it. But Universal-
ists have it all hope and nojfear, except the fear ofa little
remorse of conscience, which will be about the same,
when compared with the hope of endless felicity, and the
man possessing it, will be about jn the same condition, as
the earth, if deprived of nine hundred and ninety-nine
thousandths of her centripetal force! The audience can
guess the result. But let a man be equally balanced by
the centripetal and centrifugal forces of the hope of eter­
nal beatitude,and the fear of endless destruction; and
let them both operate in unison upon him, and they will
keep him in his proper orbit of moral rectitude, and cause
him to sustain his proper relation to the Son of Right­
eousness, the great center of the moral heavens?
But my opponent thinks all things in nature very ea­
sily accounted for; but he can’t see the use of a future
hell! But suppose I could not account for a future hell,
that is no sign that God could not. The man who looks
upon a steamboat could not, perhaps, see the use nor
propriety of all the wheels, balls, pivots, screws, rods,
&c., whilst the engineer, at a single glance, could under-
derstand the use and adaptation of every part. The only
idea 1 have of a future hell is, that it was “ prepared lor
the devil and his angels.” Ah, say you, that’s it: not
for men! True enough, it was not prepared for men, but
a great number of men, I fear, have prepared themselves
for it: and many, who, like my opponent, are very curi­
ous to find out the use of a future hell, may find out soon
enough. But the idea of a future hell is an absurdity of
the first magnitude, in the estimation of my friend. But
w here was the propriety, permit me to ask, of God creat­
ing' so many mountains, vAudn are cA no \^n^\x,Wt. vua
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 397
frequently a great curse, and many times cast forth riv­
ers of melted lava, upon thousands of innocent inhabi­
tants, who perish amidst the common devastation?—
Where was the necessity of making such trackless wastes
of waters, and so many unexplored deserts, where noth­
ing is to be seen but perpetual sands: and nothing felt,
but the scorching rays of an angry and indignant sun?
Can my friend account for this? He cannot. And no
doubt, had he been the Lord’s counsellor, such unneces­
sary and troublesome things would never have had an
existence! Had the affairs of the universe been entrus­
ted to the astonishing wisdom of some penetrating Uni-
versalist, we would now have no snakes to bite us, or
earthquakes and pestilence to make us afraid! No tor­
nados would ever have, come near our peaceful dwell­
ings; whilst the unreasonable extremes of summer’s heat,
and winter’s cold, would have been entire strangers to
our terrestrial paradise! Delightful, beautified, and va­
riegated would have been the scenery spread out contin­
ually before us, to enrapture our vision; whilst odorifer­
ous fragrance, floating on the aromatic gales, would have
charmed away all sorrow from our Eden of love!
But finally, he has gone back to the old starting place,
and brought up a reinforcement on the foreknowledge
of God. This appears to be his last resort. Hence, if
this gives way, his cause must come down! He lays
down the position, that God, foreknowing that man would
sin, and then creating him, with this certain foreknowl­
edge before him, was designing him to sin! I have
thought of this difficulty before, and I freely confess, that
I have never been able fully to dispose of it; neither did
I ever find a man that could. But we have examined
the doctrine of God decreeing sin, and then punishing
man for doing what he could not help; and we have
found that it leads to innumerable absurdities and con­
tradictions, which neither I nor my opponent can recon­
cile. This he has acknowledged since the commence­
ment of this debate. Hence, that cannot be tha
ground; and as I cannot dispose of my Wfc*
398 U N IV E R S A LISM
elusions, there is no other way possible, for both of us,to
avoid difficulties and absurdities, except to deny his pre­
mises, and take the ground, that God did not, neither
was it necessary for him to foreknow that man would
sin, when he created him! This may be a brand new
position to my opponent, as well as to many in this au­
dience; but lay aside your prejudices, all of you, until
the point is fairly argued, and then decide! Now do
not understand me to say, that God could not have
known that man would sin, had he been disposed to
know it; this is not my ground: but my position is, that
it was not necessary for him to know it, and that he had
power enough to keep from it! My opponent may ac­
cuse me of limiting the knowledge of God. But I do
not; yet I do contend, that God had power sufficient to
limit his own knowledge; and that he has exercised that
power in certain cases. But I shall not anticipate my
opponent’s objections. He shall have the privilege of
doing his very best, in his closing speech. I wish it to
be remembered, however, that my opponent boasted, at
the commencement of this discussion, that he was no
lim itarían/ No, no, not he; yet he is the very man who
lim its the power of God to such an extent, that he CAN­
NOT possibly keep from foreknowing every event that
takes place! Yes: he is no limitarían^ yet God MUST
know, from all eternity, every thing that comes to pass;
and he had not power sufficient to keep a single thing
out of his mind, had he wished to ever so much! Yes,
my friend is no lim itarían; yet he teaches, that by some
irresistible necessity, over which God has not, and canr
not exercise the least control, he is compelled to foreknow
every conceivable circumstance, that would ever occur,
even if the destiny of his Almighty throne should be at
stake! Now let my ground be fairly understood,—that
God has power to foreknow an event, or he has power
to keep it out of his mind, whichever he prefers; and if
my opponent deny him this power, then he is the limit-
arian, and not I! Neither do 1 take the position, that the
attribute of knowledge \s not. injimU. \\^w«vd4he an
AGAINST ITSELF.
absurdity to suppose, that a finite attribute could belong
to the infinite God! But the attribute of power is just
as infinite as that of knowledge; yet it does not necessa­
rily follow, because God’s power is infinite, that he must
therefore do every thing that is, or has been done: for
man has done many things that God did not do, nor ne­
ver will do, to all eternity. By infinite power, we under­
stand, not that God must necessarily do every thing, but
simply the infinite ability to do any thing he pleases, or
any thing that will be compatible with his other attri­
butes! Thus we understand the infinite attribute of
knowledge, not the knowing of every thing, but simply
the infinite ability to know any thing, and every thing
that will harmonize with his other attributes, and the
nature of his moral government! Or, in other words,
my position is, that God can do what he pleases, and
know what he pleases, and that no man can “ find out
the Almighty unto perfection? This view of the subject
will, if sustained, not only effectually kill Universalism,
and pluck it up by the roots; but it will exonerate the
character of God from the foul aspersions my opponents
doctrine is calculated to throw upon if, by making him
out the arbitrary author of sin and all our woes!
But, before taking my seat, I wish to present some four
or five scripture testimonies, in favor of my position, that
certain things have occurred that God did not foreknow;
and then hear my friend dispose of them if he can.—
“And they have built the high places of Tophet, which
is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons
and daughters in the fire, which I commanded them not,
neither came it into m y heart” [Jer. 7. 31.] This testi­
mony is pointed and emphatic, and those abominations,
which the Jews practiced, never entered into God’s heart!
This is most unaccountably strange, when he had decreed
them from all eternity! “And the Lord said, because
the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because
their sin is very grievous: I. will go down now, and see
whether they have done altogether accoT&vcv%Vo
ofit, which is come unto me, and i f not I M
aSXIcwadu"
400 U N IV E R S A L ISM I
[Gen. 18. 20.] Thus, according to this testimony, the f
Almighty did not know how bad the Sodomites had act­
ed, until he went down to seel This, to the mind of
some, might convey rather a diminutive idea of God;
but it is not to be supposed, that he could not have
known without going down to see; and hence, it gives
me a far more exalted idea of the perfections of Jeho­
vah, to suppose him a being, capable of doing and know­
ing what he pleases,—making use of means, or working
without them, just as he sees cause—than the theory
which chains down the Almighty with the fetters of fa­
tality, to the stake of the absolute necessity of foreknow­
ing every event; whilst over the attribute of knowledge
he cannot exercise the least control! But we have an­
other evidence, which is even more pointed than the
one just referred to. “And it repented the Lord that he
had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his
heart: and the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have
created, from the face of the earth. [Gen. 6.6,7.] Now
if God foreknew from all eternity, that men would prac­
tice wickedness; and if this knowledge was always alike
perfect and present before his mind; why did he not re­
pent, and why was he not grieved from all eternity, as
well as when he saw that the wickedness of man was
great upon the earth? If knowing that men had sinned,
would cause the Almighty to be so grieved as to destroy
them; why did the knowledge that they would sin, (if he
possessed it,) cause him to be so grieved as never to cre­
ate them? Could God consistently seek to grieve him­
self ? If not, why did he make man, knowing, to an ab- 1
solute certainty, that he would practice iniquity, until
he would have to repent, and be grieved at the heart, and
finally be compelled to destroy man whom he had cre­
ated, from the face of the earth? The only refuge is,
upon the position, that God did not know, before he cre­
ated man, that he would sin; for the reason that he did not
see cause to know it, and he had power sufficient to keep
from it! Once more: u And \\ve \ u c r c d the |
evil, that he thought to do unto Y
v
\%
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 401
14.] Query: Did God think he would do that evil unto
his people? Yes; for the bible says so. Did he know, at
the same time^ that he would repent of it, and not do it?
If so, then his thoughts contradict his knowledge; which
is the same thing, as for the Almighty to think that a
thing would be one way, and know, at the same time,
that it would be exactly the reverse! But such an ab­
surdity could not exist: hence it follows, that just as
certain as God thought to bring an evil upon his people,
which the bible positively affirms, just so certain he did
notforeknow that he would repent of that evil; and not
do it! This is an unavoidable conclusion, and my oppo­
nent may dispose of it the best way he can.
ALPHA’S CLOSING SPEECH.
Gentlemen moderators and fellow citizens: You have,
no doubt, become wearied somewhat, in listening so at­
tentively to this discussion, for so long a time without an
intermission. But we shall soon, now, come to a close,
as this is my concluding address. I have endeavored,
since the commencement of the debate, to make short
speeches, and I supposed my opponent would do the
same: yet his speeches,upon an average,have occupied
nearly double the time mine has: but as there was noth­
ing said in the preliminaries, with reference to the length
of the speeches, he had a right, of course, to do as he
pleased, and so had I.
My opponent is the greatest quibbler (not to use an
approbious epithet) with whom I ever held a discussion«
He puts me in mind of a wheel-wright in London, who
put over the door of his shop:4
4All sorts of twisting and
turning done here.” I thought, when the argument on
the design of punishment was presented, there was no
way of evading it: but like the philosopher’s stone,
which turns every thing it touches into gold, so he can
turn every tiling he gets hold of into sophistry! When
my last argument, on the foreknowledge of God, was pre­
sented, I was in anxious suspense to know in what way
he would attempt to meet it: and lol and
3 1 a*
402 U N IV E R S A L IS M
thing under the sun made its appearance! God did not
know before he made man that he would sin! Well,
this is certainly a new doctrine, and it looks as unrea­
sonable to me, as it is new. For the sake of brevity, I
will leave the other points which have occupied the
attention of the audience, m the former part of this dis­
cussion, and let them go for what they are worth; (al­
though I had intended a brief recapitulation,) and will
enter into an examination of this new theory of fore­
knowledge, during the short time I have to occupy in this
speech.
I object to the doctrine of my opponent, for several
considerations: 1. It would make out that the Almighty,
at one time, was nearly a fool: and knew scarcely noth­
ing at all? This is most preposterous and ridiculous:
and the doctrine holding forth such a sentiment, cannot
be regarded otherwise than false. This objection, un­
less moved out of the way, must sink the doctrine into
oblivion.
2. My second objection is, that the Almighty would
find out some things he did not know before, and conse­
quently would be disappointedf This, of itself, would
be all sufficient to make me disbelieve the doctrine; for
what better would God be than man, if he could expe­
rience the chagrin of disappointment?
3. 1 object also to the doctrine, from the fact that it is
a contradiction in terms, to say that God could keep from
knowing a thing, before he knew it, that he might keep
from it. As a matter of course, he must first know it
before he could make up his mind not to know it! Here,
then, is another absurdity, and one which condemns the
dogma of my opponent!
4. I object to the assumption of God having power to
curtail the attribute of knowledge, from the fact, that it
necessarily leads to Atheism. If God can destroy one
attribute, he can, on the same principle, destroy another,
and in fact destroy all his attributes, and finally destroy
himself, and cease to exist!
5. Another objection is, that God is ALLWISE,
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 409
^whilst my opponent’s theory makes him out only part
wise! If he be all arise, then he must havefore known
from all eternity every event that could possibly have
occurred! Can my friend dispose of this? Not ex­
actly!
6. I object, in the sixth place, to the theory of my op­
ponent, from the consideration, that the scriptures most
pointedly teach, that 4
4God foreknew from all eternity
whatsoever cometh to pass.” The Lord declares by the
mouth of the prophet:441 am God and there is none like
me, declaring the endfrom the beginnings and from an­
cient times, the things that are not yet done.” [Is. 46.
10.] James the apostle also testifies: 4
4Known unto
God are all his works* from the beginning of the world.”
[Acts 15. 18.] The apostle Paul affirms: 4
4
All things
are naked and opened unto the eves of him, with whom
we have to do.” [Heb. 4. 13.] * This testimony, with
many other texts as directly to the point, goes to show,
beyond controversy, that God always foreknew every
possible event that could ever occur in the history of
all time, and all eternity!
7. I object to his doctrine, (that God did not know
before he made man, that he would sin,) for this reason:
The apostle testifies concerning Christ as a Saviour, that
he 4
4verily was foreordained before tne foundation of
the worlds [1 Pet. 1. 20.] Now if God, before the
foundation of the world, ordained Jesus Christ to be a
Saviour, as the appstle here declares; then it follows,
that God must have known, before the foundation of the
world, that man would need a Saviour, and this could
not possibly have been, had he not have known that
man would commit sin in order to have something to be
saved from! This argument, when fairly presented,
speaks for itself, and needs no ingenuity to make it more
forcible? The fact that God ordained Christ to be a
Saviour before he had created man, proves to a demon­
stration that he knew that man would need a Saviour,
and have something to be saved from. Let it not be
contended, to escape this difficulty, that the4
4foundation
404 U N IV E R S A L 1 S M
of the world” has reference to the commencement of the I
age; for this will not work. The original text strictly I
forbids such an exposition. The word is cosmos, (not "
aton,) which never signifies an age or dispensation, but I
in every case refers to this literal mundane sphere! I
8. I object, in the eighth place, to my opponent’s
theory, because he had to pervert the text in Jeremiah,
to sustain it. “ Which I commanded them not, neither
came it into my heart:” that is, neither came it into my
heart to command it! The idea is, not that it never
entered into his heart that they would do such things;
but it never entered into his heart to command them!
Let this be borne in mind.
9. I object, in the ninth and last place, to the conclu­
sions of my opponent; from the consideration that repen­
tance and grief\ when spoken of with respect to God,
have not at all the same signification, as when applied
to man; and we cannot tell to a certainty, or draw any
definite conclusion from such premises, unless we are to
understand repenting and grieving^when applied to God,
the same as when applied to man! The above position
my friend has assumed, without the least particle of evi
dence; whilst there is every probability, as well as plain
matters of fact, in direct opposition to the assumption!
He should have known e’er this, that language, when
applied to God, is used in an accommodated sense. But
he appears to be ignorant of this fact, and has based his
whole theory upon an assumption, w'hich every student
of the bible knows to be fallacious.
Having now presented my objections to his theory, it
appears to me impossible, that any one in this audience
can believe such a contradictory assumption. It must
be evident, methinks, if we pay any respect to the bible
or consistency, that God must have foreknown before he
made man, that he would sin; and also that he made
him so, that he must be whatever he foresaw that he
would be, as his foreknovAed^e cauld not be disappoint­
ed. Hence 1contend that. end\*%*
the question. For if such a rKvcv« vV\«ve *»«***
A G A IN S T I T S E L F . 405
ing to God’s good pleasure, or it would not be, as God
knew from eternity whether such a thing would be need­
ed or not. And if he had foreknown that such a wretched
disaster would have occurred, his infinite goodness would
have withheld existence from those, whom he foresaw
to be candidates for this interminable misery!
My opponent says but little in favor of this cruel and
vindictive theory of ceaseless torture! And well he
may; for what heart would not bleed, and what soul,
that has ever been touched with the finger of God’s love,
would not revolt and shudder at the direful and horrible
thought of endless wo! How dreadful the thought! And
how little do the advocates of orthodoxy comprehend
the idea conveyed by that word endless!—e-n-d-l-e-s-s
t-o-r-m-e-n-1!!! Think, O think my audience, before
you subscribe to such a soul-benumbing, heart-wither­
ing, and God-dishonoring sentiment Fancy ten thou­
sand times ten thousand of the longest conceivable ages
in futurity, and then multiply them into themselves tea
thousand times, and has endless suffering come to an
end? Nay verily, it has only just commenced! Then
extend your imaginations .on a million times farther, if
possible, into boundless futurity; and then subtract all
these innumerable ages from the misery of the damned,
and they have just as long to writhe in ceaseless torture,
as when those ages of suffering first commenced!
4
4When these are gone, as many add to these,
As leaves, and buds, and blossoms crown the trees!
When these are gone, as many millions more,
As grains of sand upon the ocean’s shore!
When these are gone, as many more shall pass.
As in the verdant fields are blades of grass!
When these are gone, as many more snail rise,
As stars and gems, that decorate the skies!
As many millions more their rounds shall run,
As rays of light, which burst from ponder sxhA
When these are gone, as many more
A s drops o f water in the sweWuvg Ude\
406 U N ÍV E R S A L 1 S M
When these are gone, as many millions more, I
As moments in the millions gone before! I
As many more, this mighty sum shall swell,
But still the sinner groans in endless hell!!”
Great God! is such an exhibition of thy long-suffering?
Are such the displays of the unbounded benevolence of
our compassionate Saviour?!
I have never heard any man attempt to justify endless
sufferings, or reconcile such a sentiment with any thing
less than inexorable cruelty! And I expect nothing
better of my opponent, than those who have preceded
him!
But I am now, fellow-citizens, through with my ar­
guments, and if my friend can dispose of the foregoing
objections and difficulties, I am no longer an Universal-
ist!
I close my part of this discussion, with perfectly good
feelings towards my opponent; and as this debate is to
be published, and committed to the rising generation, I
sincerely desire that nothing of an unkind or unchristian
spirit may be discovered in the speeches of your humble
servant. I am glad that this large and respectable aud­
ience have waited and listened so patiently to the vari­
ety of facts and arguments presented to their consider­
ation this day; and may they ponder them impartially,
and make up their minds and act accordingly.
I must not forget to return my warmest respects and
gratitude to the gentlemen who have presided so wisely j
and respectfully over our investigations. May you, with |
all who are now present, be guided in the ways of wis- ¡j
dom, and be preserved blameless unto the appearing of ^
Jesus Christ. ^
OMEGA’S CONCLUDING REPLY. {
Respected auditors: I shall promise to detain you but \
for a short time. My opponent seercv& lo nar-
t o w the whole subject down, and suspend \
the present question upon tbe n\ne
AGAINST IT S E L F , 407
?rou have heard presented. I will therefore, like nim,
eave all previous matters, to be read, and decided by
the public, whilst the present speech shall be particular­
ly devoted to the consideration of the foregoing objec­
tions. 1. His first objection was, that my doctrine
makes out that the Almighty at one time was nearly a
fool! Strange indeed! Suppose the Lord at one time
knew nothing at all about this earth, or its inhabitants:
the man who would suppose him nearly a fool on that
account, must have the most insignificant conception of
Jehovah imaginable. To suppose the Almighty a being,
with no other dominions, and having nothing else to
think about except this pitiful earth, (which, if struck
out of existence, would leave no more of a blank, to an
eye that could encompass creation, than would a single
drop of water taken from the mighty Pacific!) is a far
lower conception of his greatness and majesty, than I
had ever yet formed an idea!
But I will now prove, according to my friend’s doc­
trine, that the Almighty, at one time, was not only “near-
/y” but altogether a fool, to use the modest language of
my opponent! He contends, that whenever a thine is
foreknown, it is foreordained; or, in other words, that
foreknowledge andforeordination imply the same thing.
We admit this, for the sake of argument, and it follows,
that there w>as a time when God foreknew nothing, as
there must have been a time, when nothing was ordained.
This I can demonstrate. If a thing be ordained, there
is a tim e when it is done; and if a time when it is done,
there must have been a time before it w>as done; and if
a time before it was done, then it was not done from all
eternity, unless eternity had a beginning. And as there
Was a time, according to this argument, when nothing
W as ordained or decreed, then it follows unquestionably,
th a t there was a time when nothing wasforeknown; for,
le t it be borne in mind, my opponent has repeatedly af­
firmed, since the commencement of this
the foreknowing and foreordaining of a\\ evexvVa «ssw-
iltaneous; or, the instant a thing is ^
468 UNIVERSA LISM
decreed! Here, then, is my opponent caught in the
meshes of his own net, and his favorite hobby redutík ]
ad absurdum! He is compelled, inevitably, to adopt
one of two positions, either that God could have fore­
known that man would sin, without having decreed it;
or else, that he did not foreknow from all eternity that
man would sin, neither did he foreknow any thing else!
Either ground kills Universalism, and of course his doc­
trine is dead, let him go which way he will!
2. His next objection is, that if God should find out
something he did not know before, he would be disap­
pointed! But here again he limits the Almighty. How
does he know that God would be disappointed, even if
he should find out something new? How does he know
but that God has power enough to keep from being disap­
pointed, even if five hundred events should occur which
he did not know before? And suppose he should be dis­
appointed, how does my friend know that he would feel
as we do when we are disappointed? And suppose he
should; has he not power to feel thus? “ He that form­
ed the eye, can he not see? and he that formed the
ear, can he not hear?” And I might ask, on the same
principle, he who gave man the susceptibility of feeling
disappointed, coula he not feel so too? You recollect i
how my opponent charged us with lim itarianism at the I
commencement of this debate! “ They who live in »
glass houses, should not throw stones at their neighbors,”
is a maxim containing an excellent moral. I
3. The third objection my friend endeavors to urge \
against my position is; that it is a contradiction in terms, c
How, he asks, can God keep from knowing a thing, be- i«
fore he knows it, that he may keep from it? I unequiv- u
ocally answer, I cannot tell! But must I disbelieve all I*
things, connected with the incomprehensible God, be- Id
cause I cannot understand them? My opponent appears |&
to think so! But let me ask him a question which w
ill g
offset this. How can God foreknow that any event | &
will take place one thousand years previous to its ac- *
complishment? If he w\U answer this query, I pledge a
A G A IN ST IT S E L F . 4 0 9
my word, to solve the hardest puzzle upon this subject,
he can conjure up. Is it unreasonable to suppose, that
the inconceivable power, which so far transcends all hu-
man thought, and which enables the Almighty to look
through the dark vista of untold myriads ot ages:—is it
unreasonable, I ask, to suppose, that by such incompre*
hensible power, the Almighty could keep from knowing
an event, even before that event ever came into his mind?
One is no more unreasonable to me than the other!—
Eternity, or duration, may be to God, what distance or
space is to us. Suppose an avenue ten miles in length,
hung with curtains, at the distance of one hundred yards
from each other, which hide from view every thing
beyond them* Then suppose you stand at one end of
this avenue, where are suspended a number of chords
attached to each of these supposed curtains, which you
have the privilege of raising at will. Now you have it
in your power to know what is beyond the first curtain,
the second, the third, or any, or all of them; or you have
it in your power not to know, whichever you prefer. If
iron raise the curtain, you will know,—if you choose to
eave it down, you will not know! Thus you would have
E
ower to keep from knowing a thing, even before you
new it, that you might keep from it! Might not the Al­
mighty Jehovah, on the same principle, have resolved not
to Tift the curtain of futurity, until he had accomplished
the work of creation, and pronounced all things good?
when, if any evil should occur, the Almighty would be
clear, as he had made all in such a manner, as that there
was no necessity for the existence of evil in any sense;
and consequently the blame would fall justly upon the
head of man. But when he saw, that man had abused
the privileges and abilities which he had bo bountifully
conferred upon him for another purpose; he then lifts
the vail of fdturitv, and devises the best plan of saving
as many as he possibly could! Hence, according to this
view of theistioject, God could keep from knowing that
man would sin, and my opponent’s objection is therefore
weighed in the balance and found w
&
aV
m
&
W
3 5
410 O N IV E R S A L ISM
4. His next objection to my theory of foreknowledge I !
is, that it leads to Atheism. He concludes, that if God 1
could destroy one of his attributes, he could destroy all,
and finally destroy himself, and cease to exist! But why
does my friend combat positions that are not in my pre­
mises? Who ever heard me take the ground, that God
could destroy one of his attributes? None of you! But
*1do say, that God has power to limit the exercise of his
attributes; if not, then the whole bible is a perfect enig­
ma! Cannot God limit the exercise of his power? If
not, then he must do every thing that ever has been, is,
or ever will be done to aU eternity. He must, on this
principle, be guilty of all the abominations he has con­
demned in his word. My friend backed out of these ab­
surdities, at the commencement of this debate, and con­
fessed that he had seen them years ago; yet he seems
still anxious to get back into the very same old absurd
dogma, of God being the author of sin! But suppose
God cannot limit the exercise of any of his attributes;
then it follows, that he must lave sin, the devil, and eve­
ry thing that is mean and hateful! Now since God can
limit the exercise of some of his attributes, as must be
admitted, he can» on the same principle, limit the exer­
cise of any of them, or else some of the attributes of an
infinite God are inferior to others. As this will not be
contended, my position is therefore fairly made out, that <
God could consistently limit the exercise of his knowl­
edge. This is sufficient for that objection.
Now since our view of the subject does not lead to
Atheism, permit me to ask, what is the result of my op- <
ponent’s doctrine? If it do not lead to Atheism, it leads
to fatality, and that too, of the very worst kind. It j
makes God himself a creature of fate, which is no bet­
ter than to deny his existence. It not oply binds man
to an unalterable destiny, irrevocably marked out, mil­
lions of ages before Adam was created, by the immuta-
ble foreknowledge of God, which VaowsVo N
m eat: but it also chains down >he
with the unyielding fetters of \heshs<A\xtc
AGAINST I T S E L F . 411
foreknowing every event, and thus giving him a certain
amount of knowledge, which he can neither add to, nor
diminish from: in fact, it binds all his other attributes to
the same point of unchangeable necessity; and thus we
have the Father of spirits deprived of the principle of
volition, and every thing like freedom of thought and
action, and hand-cuffed perfectly, by this overruling sys­
tem of super-Almighty fatalism!
5. Another objection, which my friend urges against
my position, is, that God is Allwise, and must necessarily
foreknow from all eternity, every thing that cometh to
pass. But this does not follow, any more, than because
God is A lm ighty, he must therefore do every thing that
ever is done, which we have shown to be preposterous.
The idea of God being A lm ighty, is, that he can do what
he pleases; and, on the same principle, the fact of his
being Allwise¡ is, that he can know what he pleases.
This makes his attiibutes equal, the way every consist­
ent person is compelled to view the subject.
6. In the sixth place, my friend objects to the view I
have taken of the foreknowledge of God, from the fact,
that the scriptures teach that“ God from all eternity fore­
knew whatsoever cometh to pass.* But I would inform
my friend, and all concerned, that there is no such text
in the bible, never was, nor never will be; although I
have heard it quoted, perhaps a thousand limes. There
are texts, however, which speak of a very extensive fore­
knowledge, I admit, but not one which covers the whole
ground taken Ly my opponent. For example: “ I am
God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from
the b e g i n n i n g If this signifies foreknowledge, then let
me nbk: did he know the end of sin, before it had a 4
4be­
ginning?” If not, then he did not know it from all eter­
nity ! If it was from 4
4ancient tim es” as the text declares,
then it was not from all eternity, for my friend would
not, I think, argue that there were 4
4times ” in eternity
before ever tím e had a beginning'. Agavcu
God are all his works from the cA
.
W hy say, “ from the b eg inning o\ \Yve low ld? \X.
412 U N I V E R SA L ISM
from all eternity? The word world here, Is not cosmos
in the Greek, but aionos, signifying an age, or dispensa­
tion. Neither does the text,4
4All things are naked and
opened to the eyes of him with whom he have to do,”
help the objection of my opponent. Look at the lan­
guage: 4
4All things ARE naked and opened,” in the pre­
sent tense, not were naked and opened from all eternity!
Mark this. There is no other text more to the point,
than those my friend brought up; yet they come not
within a thousand miles of disposing of my argument.
7. His next objection is, that God must have fore­
known before he made man, that he would sin, from the
fact that he ordained Christ to be a Saviour,4
4before the
foundation ofthe world” I admit the word, in this case,
to be cosmos, referring to the literal earth which we now
inhabit. But I cannot believe that God would ordain
Christ to save man from sin, before he was created; for
upon this principle, as my friend has already urged, he
must have decreed that man should commit sin, in order
that Christ might perform the work, for which God had
ordained him. I had always thought that a Saviour was
prepared for sin; but according to tins view of the sub­
ject, the Saviour was first prepared, and then sin was
prepared for the Saviour, so that he should have some­
thing to do in his office.
God must have foreordained that toankind should sin,
That Christ might perform what was ordained for him;
As Christ was ordained, and his work he m ust do:
Then mankind must sin for to carry it through!
This is the puzzling point. If God foreordained that
Christ should save man from sin, and then went to work
and made him, with the certainty that he must sin, (as
the decree concerning Christ could not be broken,) it
follows inevitably, that God designed, in the creation of
man, that he should sin, just as much as he designed that
Christ should save him from it! This conclusion cannot
be avoided,*upon the ground of my opponent; and for
this reason I do not at
AGAINST I T S E L F . 413
Christ to be a Saviour before he created man! But here
the question comes up: how will you dispose of the testi­
mony ofPeter, that Christ was ordained before the found­
ation of the world, since you admit the word world to
signify the literal earth? We shall let Peter settle the
question: but in the first place we ask: Was there not a
literal earth existing, before the one which we now in­
habit? Peter answers. 4
4For this they are willingly ig­
norant of, that by the word of God, the heavens were of
old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the
water, whereby the world (cosmos) that then was being
overflowed with waterperished; but the heavens and the
earth which are now, by the same word are kept in store,
reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and the
perdition of ungodly men.” [2 Pet. 3. 5, 6.] This testi­
mony is clear and pointed, that the world, or cosmos,
which existed before the flood, being overflowed with
water perished, or was destroyed; and that since then,
*there has existed another earth. Hence you discover,
that the apostle keeps up the contrast between the cos­
mos or earth that then was, and the earth which is now9
proving conclusively, that the earth which is now9is not
the earth which existed before the flood! I know it is
objected, that the earth was not destroyed,—that it was
only the people. But I object to this objection for two
reasons: 1. If the earth was not destroyed in the flood,
then there is no sense nor propriety in the contrast kept
up hv the apostle, between the earth that thenwas9and
the earth that is now, one being literally deluged in wa­
ter, and the other destined to be as literally deluged in
fire: and 2. My bible teaches positively that the earth
was destroyed. 4
4
And behold,’
” saith God,441 will destroy
them with the earth ” [Gen. 6. 13.] 4
4And I will estab­
lish my covenant with you, neither shall all flesh be cut
off any more by the waters of a flood, neither shall there
be any more a flood to destroy the earth? [Gen. 9. 11.]
What this destruction of the earth was, is not for me to
say; neither do 1 take the ground \\xat lY
ve feV
which the earth was composed, were desWo^ ^ e\.
414 U N l V ER SA LlSM
earth itself was destroyed, for so the bible repeatedly
affirms. Suffice it to say, that some transformation, or
disorganization of the earth took place in the flood, which
justified the inspired writers to designate by the term
destruction! Having thus premised, we draw the fol­
lowing irresistable conclusion, that Christ being “ fore­
ordained, before the foundation of the world,” was some­
time before the flood, in the antediluvian age, after sin
was introduced! This is my sincere conviction upon
this subject, neither do I believe it can be refuted. I
do not see how men can believe with my opponent, and
keep out of fatality. If they can, they possess powers
of intellect, to which 1 am, and always expect to be a
stranger!
8. Again: he objects to my application of the text
from Jeremiah: 4
4Which I commanded them not, neither
came it into my heart,” that is, according to my oppo­
nent’s objection, neither came it into my heart to com­
mand it! But this will never do. The grammatical
construction of the language strictly forbids it. Now
mark the phraseology:4
4Which I commanded them not.”
What? Ans: the burning of their sons and daughters
in the fire. 4
4Neither came i. e. the very thing which
I commanded them not, namely, the burning of their sons
and daughters in the fire; “ neither came IT into my
heart.” The relative which refers to the act of burning
their sons and daughters in the fire; and the pronoun it,
personates the same thing precisely. The Lord says in
another place:4
4They have built also the high places of
Baal, to burn their sons with fire for burnt offerings unto
Baal, which I commanded them not, nor spake t/, neither
came it into my mind.” [Jer. 19. 5.] 4
4Which 1command­
ed them not,” namely, the act of burning their sons in
the fire:4
4Nor spake tV
,”—the thing, of course, which I
commanded them not:4
4Neither came i t ”—the same it,
and the sarfle thing which I commanded them not:—“nor
spake IT, neither came IT into my mind;” that is, it
never came into my mmi, VW
\. \.V
\*y would be guilty of
such wicked conduct., as \w
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 41»
burnt offerings unto Baal! This is most unquestionably
the true and obvious idea of the text, as every gramma­
rian must see.
9. We come, now, to the examination of his last ob­
jection, which is, that grieving, and repenting, and all
such phrases, when applied to God, do not have the same
meaning, nor convey the same idea, as when applied to
men; that they are used in an accommodated sense!—
This appears to be his last struggle« Well, we shall
see. An accommodated sense! Who does it accommo­
date? Not God, certainly, for he needs no accommoda­
tion; and more than this, the'revelation was not made to
him, but to us. Hence the language must be accommo­
dated to us, if accommodated at all« Now if the lan­
guage be accommodated to us, then it must convey to
us the same idea, that we generally attach to such lan­
guage, or it is no accommodation! So much, to accom­
modate this very accommodating objection.
But if grieving^ and repenting', because applied to
God, are to be understood as signifying something en­
tirely different from what they do when applied to man;
then how ought we to understand the text: (if we could
find it,) “God foreknew from all eternity, whatsoever coni-
eth to pass!” We must not understand it to signify what
it says, by any means; but give it my fi‘end’s accom­
modated meaning, which is, to make it signify the exact
opposite of what it says! We could thus pro re, accord­
ing to my opponent’s logic, that God did not know from
all eternity any thing that corneth to pass. One text with
respect to God’s foreknowledge should be just as ac­
commodating as another! Again: if the g rief and re-
pentance of God be entirely different from the grief and
repentance of man, then I contend, that when the bible
says: “God is good unto all,” the word good, on the same
principle, is to be understood in an accommodated sense,
as signifying something altogether different from its com­
mon acceptation. Hence we can draw no definite con­
clusion from the goodness of God; fox we
what it signifies, since it must be accommodated te d «
U N I V E R S A L I S M
41*
logic of my opponent! As all such words, when applied to
God, cannot mean what they do when applied to man,
we cannot tell, therefore, but that the goodness and
mercy of God will damn the whole human family, rather
than save them! I might admit, with all safety, the logic
of my friend, and challenge him to prove the salvation
of any body,from the attributes of God; for all language,
when applied to God, he tells us, is to be understood out
of its common signification. Thus he is used up, let him
take which ground he will.
[Alpha here interrupted the speaker, and said:] I wish,
gentlemen moderators, to correct a mistake into which
my friend has fallen. I do not contend that language,
when applied to God, is to be understood as meaning
exactly the reverse of what it says, the way my oppo­
nent represents me: but I understand it to be used in
an infinitely greater sense* For example: when we
read that God loves all men, I understand his love, not
as being the opposite of ours, but as being exercised in
an infinitely greater degree!
[Omega proceeds*]
Very good: I am glad my friend explained himself;
for we can now understand the text which says: God
repented that he had made man, and it grieved him at the
heart* ^It is not to be understood as being different from
the g rief and repentance of man, but simply that his
g rief and repentance was infinitely the greatest!! Now
if the sins of men caused infinite g rief then they are
infinite offences, and consequently deserve infinite pun­
ishment!! I hope my friend will explain again*
One of two positions must be taken here, either of
which plucks up the doctrine of my opponent by the
roots. We are compelled either to take the ground,
l that the foregoing phrases, such as knowings loving,
I grieving, repenting, &c., mean the same when applied
f to God, that they do when a^hed to man^ or that they
do not* If they do, then my \a wA&t
out, that God did not iotehnow horn etethwy
nvesc Cometh to pjUS, for \h\e,ne\h»Ne
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 417
repeatedly affirms. But if we take the position that they
do not mean the same, that they do when applied to man,
then we cannot tell what they do mean; and conse­
quently, as all such matters, connected with God, are in­
comprehensible, we cannot therefore draw any definite
conclusion in favor of universal salvation from what we
know of God;* neither can we present any rational ar­
gument against the doctrine of God having power to
limit his knowledge, since we know not what the word
knowledge, orpower, signifies when applied to him!
But he brings his speech to a close, by an appeal to
the sympathies of his audience. Such ad captandum
logic is general!*' resorted to, and found more successful
in advocating the cause of my opponent, than any testi­
mony that can be adduced from the word of God. He
has given us an awful representation of endless misery!
He speaks o f6
4ceaseless torture,”—4
4irretrievable ruin,”
—44endless torment,”—“ interminable wo,” &c., &c., in
order to make the audience horrified at the idea;—just
as if that were any argument in favor of universal sal­
vation. But I have three or four considerations to pre­
sent, relative to this matter: and in the first place, I
would inform my opponent, and all present, that I have
not come here to advocate “ endless misery,” or any
other affirmative; but simply to oppose Universalism.—
Hence I am not bound to defend “ ceaseless torture,”
but my business is, to show this audience, that the argu­
ments of my opponent do not prove universal salvation!
This I conceive to have been effectually done, since the
commencement of this discussion.
But my friend appears to think, that should he suc­
ceed in putting down “ endless misery,” it proves uni­
versal salvation! This, however,does not follow, as the
only alternative, by any means. There can be as plau­
sible arguments adduced, in favor of the position, that
the wicked will never be raised from the dead^as can h*
presented in favor o f Universalism.
declared, “I f by any means he irnght aVVsiva
resurrection o f the dead.” [Phil. 3. T h e
418 U N I V E R S A L I S M
speaks of those “ who shall be accounted worthy to ob-
tain—the resurrection of the dead.” [Luke 20. 35.]— 1
From this testimony it might be argued, with all the j
plausibility of Universalism, that the wicked would not
enjoy the resurrection, because they did not labor to ob­
tain it, and hence, they would neither be saved nor suf­
fer “ endless misery.”
Again: It might be argued, and (Jniversalists, accord­
ing to their own doctrine, can be compelled to admit the
same, that the wicked will be raised from the dead, and ,
utterly destroyed or annihilated! Paul says concerning
them: “Whose end is destruction.” [Ph. 3.19.] It might
be asked: How can their end be destruction, unless they
come to an end? And how can they come to an end, un­
less they are annihilated; or unless they «utterly perish?
as says the apostle Peter; or how can they live, after
they die “ the second death.” [Rev. 21. 8.J How, it
might be asked, can the punishment of the wicked be
compared to the burning up of “chaff?—H ares”—“dry
branches”—“hay¡wood,stubble?—“thorns and briers?
—and they be always burning, and never burn up?—
[Math. 3. 12; 13. 40. John 15.6. 1 Cor. 3.15. Heb.
6. 8.] Would there be any similarity between endless
misery, and the burning up of chaff? The whole fra­
ternity of Universalists contend, that the destruction of
death, and the devils signifies their utter annihilation!— i
that death,and the devil will no longer exist, after Christ |
destroys them! Now as the same being is to destroy
the wicked, who is to destroy death and the devil; and
as they are to be destroyed at the same time, and in the
same place,—4
4the lake of fire and brimstone,” (Rev.
20,) will it not be the same destruction; and, according
to Universalism, will not wicked men, as well as death
and the devil be annihilated? They certainly will,
which disproves universal salvation, and is not “ cease­
less torment” either'. ButUnvrosaUsts will tell us, that
the destruction of the mcVed,ut
as such, that is, the destrucUou ol vWw
w hatever is destroyed \s punished.
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 419
Í
finished with everlasting destruction” [2 Thes. 1. 9.]
s it the man who is punished, or his sins? The man
certainly; and hence my opponent is compelled, accord­
ing to his own theory, to admit that it is the man who is
to be annihilated! Thus he is completely driven, by his
own arguments, out of Universalism, and if he can’t go
the horrifying theory of “endless torment,” he can just
step over into 4
6
destructionism ” and have a much more
consistent theory to contend for, than the one he is now
advocating.
But, in the last place, I will take a position, and prove
it, too, by the very logic of my opponent, that the wick­
ed can suffer endless torment, and rejoice all the while!
This being proved, away goes all the whining about
“ ceaseless torture,”—“vindictive hatred,”—“ inexorable
cruelty,” etc., etc. Let us see. My opponent has taken
the position, and argued it strongly, since this debate
commenced, that all men are punished in this life, all
that their sins deserve; and that they are punished every
day, as long as they continue to sin. Very good: let
us now look at what the scriptures say, concerning the
wicked, who, according to Universalism, were at the
same time suffering the “everlasting punishment” threat­
ened in the bible! We are informed, that they “have
PLEASURE in unrighteousness—that they “ENJOY
the PLEASURES of sin ”—that they “countit PLEAS­
URE to riot in the day-time,—SPORTING themselves
with their own deoeivings,”—that they “ DELIGHT in
lies ”—that “ their souls DELIGHT in their abomina­
t i o n s and that they “REJOICE TO DO EViLll”^ )
[2 Thess. 2. 12. Heb. 11. 25. 2 Pet. 2. 13. Ps. 62. 4. Is.
66. 3. Prov. 2. 14.] These individuals, let it be re­
membered, are all this while suffering punishment for
their sins! Yes, according to Universalism, they are
now enduring the awful judgment threatened by Christ
and the apostles,—the damnation of hell*, and nd
while too, they have pleasure^ they sport,
io do evil, and delight in lies and abomxnatxous\U ^
man is always the best judge, as
4*0 U N I V E R S A L ISM
he feels happy or miserable! Now suppose you offer |
a helping hand to one of those conscience-seared bloats,
who is now delighting in his lies and abominations,and
sporting and rejoicing in the pleasures of unrighteous-
ness, and he will tell you, he wants no better times,
and desires no better company than he is now in! If
you wish to make him feel wretched and miserable,
make him think he is compelled to go to heaven, but if
you wish to make his heart leap for joy, convince him
from the bible that he is now in the very hottest hell
there is, and that he will have to remain in it to all eter­
nity, and your object is attained. Such fellows would
hardly thank my opponent for preaching against such a
hell as that! It is a great consolation to them, however,
when they hear a talented Universalist combating the
hell of orthodoxy! As an old toper once told a preach­
er, (when he saw he was about to stall upon the text:
4
4These shall go away into everlasting punishment,”)
4
4Make it out if you can, Mr. T.—if you don’t, I’m a
gone sucker!”
Now permit me to ask my friend, and all Universal-
ists present, whether it would be very “soul-benumbing,”
or 4
4heart-withering,” to think that such abandoned and
profligate characters are doomed to suffer 4
4endless pun­
ishment,”—or “ceaseless torture,” when they are now in
the very hottest of it, and 4
4enjoy” it so well, that the
highest and strongest motives of heaven and earth can­
not induce them to leave it?! Does it 4
4
benumb” your
soul, my dear sir, to think that they enjoy themselves so
well now, and that they will continue to be tormented
with such delightful punishment,as will make them “ re­
joice” to all eternity?! Singular logic, indeed, to be
horrified at the idea of a sinner remaining eternally in a
condition, which, if he could be induced to pray at all,
would be his first and most fervent request! And would
it be “vindictive hatred” and4
4
inexorable cruelty,” on
the part of God, if he shovdd center
which he desired above a\\AY\vngp \aheave\xjeoA
Ail w e go in for, is the pumshraexvX
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 49t
the sinner is now suffering that punishment, according
to Universalism, and rejoicing at the same time, why
should my opponent object, and why should he make
such a tremendous fuss, because the sinner is destined
thus to “ enjoy the pleasures of sin 9
9to all eternity ?!
But he tries to tell us how long eternity is, and I con­
fess he gets about as far into it, as I have ever seen any
one go; yet it is no objection to endless misery, he is
compelled to admit, as has just been demonstrated. But
Universalists may be deceived, as regards sinners being
punished here in time, and my opponent cannot but have
serious doubts, I am confident, with reference to all men
being saved in heaven. Now as heaven is a most glo­
rious and desirable place, and if a man lose heaven he
loses all, and as my opponent must admit, at least, that
he may be wrong, and that there is a risk, in preaching
Universalism, of the loss of heaven, both to himself and
hundreds of others, hence, the length of eternity is
against him, and not against us! O think of the sweets
and joys of endlessfelicity, which my opponent is jeop­
ardizing for himself and others, every time he preaches
the untenable, at least doubtful theory of Universalism!
Suppose we could enjoy more present happiness, if we
all believed in Universalism, than we now do, (which is
exceedingly doubtful,) then compare this paltry differ­
ence with the illimitable and inconceivable contrast be­
tween this short life, and boundless—shoreless e-t-e-r-
n-i-t-y, and it follows, if there be but one probability in
a million against Universalism, it utterly forbids any
man to preach the doctrine? But how much greater is
the hazard in preaching Universalism, when there is not
one probability out of a million in its favor?!
I hope my opponent will remember the poetry he
quoted from Dr. Somebody, and let that give him an
idea of how much he risks, every time he preaches his
doctrine! He enumerated all the blades of —
grains o f sand,—drops of water,—ra^s eft
o fheaven, and leaves, buds, and blossoms eft >
5cve S&wX*
and even y e t, he had not gone over vYve veto ^
422 UN1VERSALISM
suburbs of eternity! Let us try, if possible, to look still
farther. Suppose ail this countless number to be mul­
tiplied into itself as many times as it contains units, and
this whole amount set down in as many different places
as there are atoms of matter in the whole universe, the
largest of which could not be observed through the finest
magnifying glass;
Then add this number up without delay, |
And mark the ages that have pass’d away:
Then set this number down ten thousand times,
Make each of these to head ten thousand lines:
Let every line ten thousand miles extend, !
Make line and number each so closely blend
That microscope can not discern between,
Nor mark the distance that shall intervene:
Then strike a line below, and add again; I
And take this mighty sum you thus obtain; j
Make every unit stand for ages vast,
And wait until those ages long have past: i
Then strike, and add as many millions more,
And still you have e-t-e-r-n-i-t-y (grbeforef j
There’s none but God can know this mystery, i
This awful, wondrous word ETERNITY!! j
Thus you see, my audience, how much my opponent
is hazarding whenever he preaches the system of Uni-
versalism, based as it is, and as he must see, upon a most
flimsy and precarious foundation! How a man can pos­
sess the unblushing audacity, to put up his own vain phi­
losophy and conjectures, in opposition, not only to more
than nine-tenths of all Christendom for eighteen centuries,
but in opposition to the plain and unequivocal testimony
of the bible; and at the same time run the risk of losing
an e-t-e-r-n-i-t-y of felicity, with which the picture just
presented bears no more resemblance, thain the smallest |
conceivable speck compared with the entire universe of
God! Let ithe remembered,then, that whenever a Uni- I
versa]ist attempts to portray ^
AGAINST I T S E L F , 423
is against himself, and no objection to “endlessmisery:”
as every Universalist is absolutely compelled to admit«
that men may be endlessly punished and REJOICE all
the while. I hope this will satisfy Universalists, and
that we shall henceforth hear no more of their whining
about* endless misery9
’ and “ ceaseless torment!”
I have already continued my speech longer than I had
intended; but I felt it my duty to say something, in re­
ply to the concluding part of my friend’s address, from
the consideration that such sympathetic appeals are
generally resorted to, as a valuable substitute for bible
testimony, and as a most excellent bait with which to
catch the vulgar!
I hope you will ponder well the things you have heard,
and reflect seriously upon the danger of embracing any
theory,except the one proposed by Solomon: “ Fear God
and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty
of man; for God shall bring every work into judgment,
with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether
it be evil.” [Ec. 12. 13, 14.] May the Lord keep us
from the snares and devices of the adversary, and pre­
serve us blameless unto his heavenly kingdom!
CHAPTER X.
A B R I E F R E V I E W O F T H E P R O A N D C O N .
«EVERY PLANT WHICH MY HEAVENLY FATHER HATH NOT
PLANTED SHALL BE BOOTED UP.”—Matt. 15.1&
The Pro and Con of Universalism, by George Rogers,
is undoubtedly the strongest work now extant, in de­
fence of that doctrine; and its author is admitted to pos­
sess a greater amount of caution and foresight than any
other advocate of the system, living or dead. I state
these facts that the reader may see (when the gross ab­
surdities, and outrageous blunders which the author has
perpetrated, are laid out before him,) that the system is
radically defective in itself—that it isfalse, or so many
and such palpable contradictions would not, and could
not, have occured in so small a work, (356 pages,) and
under the dictation of so wise and prudent an author.
I calculate, in the following strictures, to study brevi­
ty, and give only samples enough from the work under
review, to satisfy the intelligent reader that the cause
of Universalism is not founded in truth, and that it car­
ries its own refutation^ engraven upon its very front So
far as the author of the work under review has relied
on scriptural testimony in support of his peculiarities, it
needs no examination here, as aY
Ysw
c,Y
ymatters have been
fully canvassed in the forgoing
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 426
shall therefore proceed immediately to point out some
of the difficulties, absurdities, and contradictions in
which the Pro and Con has involved himself, in his
infatuated endeavors to sustain the difficult, absurd, and
contradictory system of Universalism.
He contends, as the first point to be noticed, that
God is the author of sin.
“ Believe me, readerjt is not possible to avoid the conclusion that all
events take place agreeably to the unalterable decrees of Jehovah.” —
Page 300.
“ T h e scriptures are most satisfactory, most philosophical upon this
puzzling point, [the origin of sin;] they teach that *of God are all
things,’— they represent Jehovah him self as saying, *1 form, the light
and create darkness, I make peace and create cm , I the Lord do all
these things.’ ” —p. 81.
“ ‘ So! then,’ exclaim s the Arm inian objector, ‘ the author really
seems bent on proving, that as Jehovah foreknew the existence of sin,
he m ust also have designed it!* Yer, such is really my purpose.” —
p. 286.
“ Having then, as I think, established the conclusion that absolute
foreknowledge implies absolute foreordination, I proceed to notice the
objections which seem to lie against it. I have already considered the
most form idable of these, viz., that it makes God the author of sin; and
I now ask, how, on any ground, is this to be avoided? I assert more,
over that it is plainly scriptural.” —p. 287.
This will suffice upon this point for the present. He
here asserts, not only that God is “the author of sin,”
but he quotes and misapplies scripture, to prove that he
made and created itjust as he created “light ” and “dark­
ness.” Bear this in mind, reader, and observe how it
corresponds with the following:
“ But in accommodation to our lim ited conceptions the retributive
dispensations of hi* providence are term ed his anger, because they
display the repugnance of his infinitely pure nature to all unholiness”
p. 121.
“ If sin shall alw ays exist, it will be owing either to a w ant of pow-
er in God to destroy it, or to a want of disposition. To the former it
cannot be, for he is A lm ighty; neither can it be to the'latter, for it is
a thousand times declared in his word, in one form or other, that sin is
utterly odious to him.”—p. 61.
Then, sir, it is a “thousand times declared in his word
that” Universalism is false; for how can GtodAsc'i&Ra\ir
L L *
36
426 C N I V E R S A L I S M
thor ot a thing, and form it by the creative act, as he j
formed light, and that thing be “utterly odious to him?” ,
How can he be the author of all the wickedness in ex- |
istence, and yet possess an “infinitely pure n a t u r e I f
God can be thus pure, and at the same time be the direct ,
author, or creator of sin, then there is no danger of any '
man becoming impure by practicing it! And if one *
thing that God has created be “ utterly odious to him,”
may not all his other works be equally repugnant to his
infinitely pure nature; and if God will utterly destroy or
annihilate one part of his creation, (which the Pro and \
Con asserts concerning sin,) and that part, too, which j
was designed for a good end, where is the proof then,
that he will not utterly destroy any other, or all other
parts of his creation; and especially the human family,
who, the Pro and Con asserts, were designed like sin for
“some future purpose ofgoodness?1
7 (p. 103.) But if
God is the author of all wrong, and has created all the
sin that ever existed, then we cannot reasonably expect
him to do that which is right at any future period, for
he is without variableness or shadow of turning. This
author asserts the same.
“ Convince me that my m aker can do w hat is throng*, or omit to do
what is right at one time, and I shall at once despair of hie doing other­
wise at any tim e! p. 300.
Kow the Pro and Con is necessarily compelled to admit
that God will continue to do what is wrong to all eterni­
ty, or else deny that there is any thing wrong in the uni­
verse ; for he has repeatedly affirmed, (as before quoted,)
that God is the author and creator of all things univer­
sally ! If an evasion be attempted by assuming that
God created sin only as a temporary wrong, to be over-
ruled for a good end, still it leaves the difficulty as bad
as ever; for we may expect him to do the same thing
at any other, and at all other times, and thus he may ,
continue to create sin and misery to ail eternity for a I
good end! How will they ever be destroyed, according |
to this? Finally: if ^
in the eternal God, as five Pro and. Ctoa
A G A I N S T I T S E L F ; iff
will be absolutely eternal in its duration, for he asserts
that
44M oreover life must be absolutely eternal, having its well-spring in
the eternal God.” — p. 187.
So much for God being the author of sin. But this
is not the worst of it. The doctrine inculcated by the
work under examination must necessarily, and inevita­
bly encourage men to commit sin. This I will now
prove. In the first place it is most reasonable to suppose
that sin cannot be a very dangerous thing, since God
went to the pains of foreordaining it; but viewing it as
the Pro and Con does, it is far preferable to virtue—
most salutary and glorious in its result, and must neces­
sarily prompt every rational man to have as much of the
article on hand as possible. Reader, this is no fiction;
if you suspect it such, read the following: .
“ T h at God has no pleasure in sin for its own sake is clear, for it is
opposed to his nature— hut that God does will its existence, for the
present, and with reference to some future purpose ofgoodness, it
w ere the essence of folly to deny, for otherw ise it would not be.” —p.
103.
4
4Love can approve of all things as they are, because it looks forward
to w hat they are to he; it can approve of present evil with a view to
jfuture and greatergood; it can smile upon a short night of tears, which
is to issue in an ever-enduring day of joy, the brighter for those
tears!”—p. 126.
“ O f all people on earth, we have the least reason for being dissat­
isfied w ith the present life; for according to our view, all its sorrows,
tem ptstion8Ttrials, disappointments, &c., are appointed by infinite love,
to exercise us here for our hereafter advantage.”- p. 151.
4
4T ruth is, our Creator has designed that this existence should be
one of partial suffering— moral as well as physical suffering; and in
appointing the end he has also appointed the means. Sin is the main
means, by which the former is brought on.— All this, I know, would
reflect no glory upon the Creator’s character, but for the foct—the glo­
rious heart-cheering fact, that out of all this shall issue an universally
benevolent result: ‘ our light afflictions,’ [sin and its consequent mis­
ery.] 4which are bur for a pn°mem, worketh for us ma far more ex-
teeding and eternal weight ofglory.' ” —p. 297.
41T he tiger is loose, (by which I would personate sin and m is e t^
whether by appointment or perm ission you m ust sat
U N I V E R B A L I S M
ehitteter it equally concerned in the event. Shall it roam and make I
havoc amongst God's offspring forever? or shall it be destroyed—the '
wounds it has inflicted be healed, and the subjects o f its violence be
brought to see and experience, that, all things considered, it wa$better
for them to have suffered from its fury for a time, THEREBY
their H A PPIN E S S might be ENHA NCED P O R E T E R N IT Y .”—p.
313.
Here you have it, reader; not only that sin was de- I
signed for a good end, but that it will “enhance our hap* |
pinessfor eternity!” Who, then, would not desire as
much sin as possible, seeing it is “fo r our hereafter ad­
vantage” and will result in “greater goody” than we
could have possibly experienced without its “means?v
But the Pro and Con tries to avoid this difficulty.
“ He who sins most, has most moral suffering: God has joined these
two things together, and no m an can put them assunder. T he reader I
will therefore learn not to plead this doctrine as an excuse for sinning
the more, for, so sure as he does so, he must suffer the more.”— p. 297.
If I believed “this doctrine,” I should not only plead
it “as an excuse for sinning the more,” but I should feel
it my imperative duty, a - * ’ 1 self, and desired
practicing wickedness: a: cause me to shed
tears of sorrow and regret, I would rejoice in such suf­
fering, knowing that it would ultimately “issue in an
ever-enduring day ofjoy, SCATHE BRIGHTER FOR
THOSE T E A R S . W h y should not I desire sin, i
since thereby my “happiness would be enhanced for eter­
nity?” and why should I not desire, and earnestly crave
the sufferings which will result from sin, since the Pro
and Con has given us the assurance that this light afflic­
tion which is hut for a moment, will work out for us “a
far more exceeding,and eternal weight ofglory ?” Thus,
if the doctrine of the Pro and Con be true, we have in­
finite motives held out, as inducements to practice sin,
rather than holiness. But as sin is “utterly odious to
God,” and nevertheless m \\ enhance W happiness for
eternitys it follows that this e t e m a \ ^
be “u tte rly odious” to
happiness, to embrace opportunity of
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 42»
higher than the fountain, and the effect cannot exceed
the cause that produced it Hence, as sin will be de­
stroyed, this eternal happiness will go along with it
But, according to the Pro and Con, sin must necessarily
continue to all eternity, in order to keep up this eternal
happiness. See the following:
“ T h e sou! (by w hich I mean the moral nature) is so constituted,
th a t none o f the affections thereof can be exercised forever, w ithout a
perpetual action ofthe exciting cause! T hey may be compared to fires,
w hich will burn out in time exceptnewfuel be added: or to springs
w hose w aters will exhaust, fj^ y exceptkept up byconstant new supplies.
T ak e, for instance, the affection ofjoy; you know, that to however rap­
turous a degree it may be excited, it will subside at lengthy unless it be
(g p renewed byfresh objects.”—pp. 252-S^
Now as sin is to enhance our happiness for eternity,
it is most evident that sin itself must necessarily endure
to eternity; for he informs us that the affection ofjoy or
happiness “ will subside at length unlessrenewedbyfresh
o b je c ts It will go out, like fire, “except newfu el be ad­
dedf or this happiness which is the result of sin and mis­
ery, like springs of water, will exhaust, “ except kept
up by constant new supplies” or by “a perpetual action
o f the exciting cause” If this, does not prove that sin
and misery must endure eternally, off and on, as we
sometimes say, then nothing can be made apparent by
the English language. Once more upon this point
“ T o the first question I reply, that sin, though odious in itself, m ay
yet, as overruled by the divine Being, be made to eventuate in ogreat­
ergood than could be effected without its means. I say not that God
appointed it to that end; but that he will so overrule it that such will
be the result. How otherwise can hia perm itting its existence be vindi­
cated ? ” —p. 62.
After stating that sin will “ be made to eventuate in a
greater good, than could be effected without its means”
ne makes this declaration which I wish the reader par­
ticularly to notice: tCr”“I say hot that God appointed it
to that end'' Now one of two things must follow inev­
itably, since God did not appoint sin. Voa. good, end..,
ther he did not appoint it at a\\, or
bad end. I f the Pro and Con meant, tnat.
U N I V E R S A L I S M
appoint sinr at all, but simply permitted it, (which is I
quite evident from his language,]) then he contradicts
himself most pointedly. In replying to the Armenian
objection, that Universalism makes God the author of
sin, he remarks:
“ W e m ake him the author o f all things, indeed;—It can make no i
actual difference betw een us in this respect, that you say God permits.
while we sayhe A PPO IN TS, for the result is the same in both cases.”— I
pp. 311-12. 1
Here he gives us his real views, (I presume,) that God
did actually appoint sin, but as he did not appoint it toa
good end, he must therefore have appointed it to a bad
end; and thus God is not only disappointed in having
sin result in good, when he appointed it for the oppo­
site, but he is proved to be a cruel tyrant; for if he cre­
ated and appointed one thing to a bad end, we cannot
possibly infer, with any degree of propriety, but that he
created all other things with the same design. But again:
According to the argument of the Pro and Con it is per­
fectly reasonable and consistent for sin and misery to
exist in the eternal state of being. This I will prove.
u I believe that this view obtains very generally am ongst the Unita­
rians of this country, and the author will confess it is that to which
bis own judgm ent the most strongly inclines. T h e only objection (so
far as I know) to which it is liable, is, that it represents Jehovah as
partial, in m aking some of his creatures to be eternally superior to oth­
ers. But then it is adm itted that some are actually made superior to
others in time-su p erio r in person, intellect,a
/brtenc—and moral qual­
ities. W hy not these facts, as well form a ground of impeachm ent
against the im partiality of God as the other? ”—p. 334.
Sure enough! The Pro and Con, after all his philo­
sophising upon the unreasonableness of sin or punish­
ment existing in eternity, now comes out, and proves
that some men will “be eternally superior to others,*
from the fact that they are so here in time! and that it
will not impeach the character of God for the same dis­
tinctions to exist between men in eternity that exist here
in tim e! Truly this is a new way of defending Uni-
versalism. But hear Yv\ma%a\xv\
1
1It ii against reason, because from wbax. b po»sftikva y a -
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 4dl
ent mode of beings it is unreasonable and presumptuous to infer with con­
fidence, as to what is, or is not possible to every conceivable mode of 6e-
ing.”— p. 343.
Hence it is possible and reasonable for men to be sin­
ful and miserable in the eternal state of being, as much
so as here; and the Pro and Con has demonstrated him­
self to be one of the most “unreasonable and presump­
tuous ” men on earth, because he has, in a number of
cases, inferred most positively and dogmatically, that it
was not reasonable nor possible for sin and misery to
exist in the future state ! But here he kills his doctrine
at a single blow, by admitting that it is reasonable and
possible for sin and misery to exist in the future state,
from the fact that they exist here. Once more:
“ W e here experience that effort is the price of all attainment, both
moral and intellectual—that all advancement, as well as retrogression, is
progressive. These things we know to be the case at present, and wê
have no reason for supposing that they will be different with us, when
we enter upon a new stage ofexistence/ / ” —p. 346.
4
1Yes, “all advancement, as well as retrogression is
progressive7
7 Look at this sentence. Some men advance
in virtuous improvement as long as they live, whilst
“evil men and seducers wax worse and worse,7
9 or pro-
gress in rétrogradation. This is true: and as “we have
no reason for supposing it will be different with us, when
we enter upon a new stage of existence,” it follows that
the retrogression of the wicked will be progressive eter­
nally;—they will continue to “wax worse and worse,”
whilst the righteous will continue to advance in moral
improvement'forever and ever. How, then, will the
Pro and Con get the wicked saved, if they continue in
the future state in their retrograde progression 7
“ Nevertheless, as ‘ one star differetli from another star in glory, so
also is the ressurrection ofthe dead.' I t seems anything but reasonable
to suppose that there will be no difference, at that era, betw ixt Paul,
(for exam ple,) and the individual who passed from time w ithout hav­
ing takcfn the first step in moral advancement—p. 346.
Thus we discover that these will he the same differ­
ence between men at the resurrection, \n\yovoX, eft '■
'■
«w
»-
483 U N IV E R S A L I S M
ral advancement,” that there is now! Then it follows,
as some men are entirely destitute of moral qualifica­
tion here, that they will be destitute of it there, or in
other words, they will be just as destitute of holiness in
the resurrection as they are here in time. They will,
therefore, be raised unholy, and consequently in their
sins! But again:
“ Our aouts (like gardens in nature) cannot be got into a condition
of yielding the fruits of the Spirit in any great degree o f excellency or
abundance, without sedulous and persevering cultivation.”-~-p. 246.
Then of course, since some men will continue in the
future state to progress in wickedness, as we have seen,
it follows that their souls will never yield the fruits of
the Spirit; for it is quite evident, if they continue to
“ wax worse and worse” in eternity, as they do here in
time, (which the Pro and Con asserts,) that their souls
will never come under the influence of very usedulous
and persevering cultivation”
‘But according to his views of the immutability of God,
it must necessarily follow that God will punish some
men to all eternity. Reader, mark me, if this be not so.
“ The mutability of God is manifestly implied in the common suppo­
sition, that although he will bear with the provocations of sinners dur­
ing the term of their stay on e&rth, yet so soon as they are removed
hence, he will utterly alter his course, and let loose his vengeance up­
on them without mercy.” —p. 55.
Now observe reader, that according to this argument,
it makes out God a mutable or changeable being, if he
should do one thing with a sinner in time) and do differ­
ently with him in eternity!! This makes God change­
able! Yes; and hence, according to the Pro and Con,
God is unchangeable, and consequently will continue to
do with sinners in eternity whatever he does in time.
This is his argument without exaggeration. Now does
it not follow that God will continue to punish wicked
men eternally, since, according to Universalism, he pun­
ishes them as long as they live on earth, and he is un­
changeable!! Thus the-Pro and Con is compelled to
admit) according to Yus own \o%\^ ^ wracked will
have to endure end\ess
A G A I N S T IT SE L F. 4SS
We shall now examine his views on punishment
“ Punishm ent is of two kinds as to its nature,—several, as to its ob­
jects. One kind may be term ed arbitrary,—the other necessary, A r­
bitrary punishm ent is such as results from the mere will of thepunish*
er; it has no Q ^r natural connection with the offense, Necessary pun­
ishm ent is such as necessarily proceeds from the sin itself; it is«an un­
avoidable consequence of it. In 'the one, an outward executioner if
required; in the other, sin is its own executioner, T he stroke of the
one m ay therefore be dodged; the stroke of the other is as inevitable
as fate.—Hence it will be seen, that between m urder and hanging
there is no natural connection. T he connection is orbit ary, hence its
uncertainty, Now let us see w hether divine punishment can be thus
eroded,”—pp. 249*3.
We will “see? sir, and will provebyyourself, that eve­
ry thing you have said in thisconnection against “arbi­
trary punishment,” as you define it, casts most impious
reflections upon the character and government of God!
I say I will prove it by yourself! Reader, before pro­
ceeding, please turn back, and read this last quotation
again, and mark particularly those words in italics,—
You will discover that “arbitrary punishment”isthe op­
posite of “necessary” and consequently unnecessary,—
Mark this! Then observe that “arbitrary punishment”
“has no natural connection with the offense,”—“results
from the mere will of the punisher,” and needs “an out­
ward execu tio n erHence he concludes that “hanging?
or any other punishment which needs “an outward ex­
ecutioner” is arbitrary,—unnecessary, and having “no
natural connection with the offense!” But has not God,
in numerous instances, inflicted arbitrary punishment?
Most certainly. Was not the fire and brimstone, which
God poured downupon the Sodomites “an outward exe­
cutioner ?” Was not the floodupon the antediluvians?—
the Red Sea upon the Egyptians ?—the swordof Joshua
upon the Canaanites, and the Roman soldiers upon Je­
rusalem ? Were not these outward executioners 7 The
man who was pelted with stones, for breaking the sab­
bath, by the express directions of the Almighty,—whe
“died without mercy under two or threewitnesses,”haf.
he not an outward executioner? What sayyou mad&il
$r
434 UNIVERSALISAI
|f so, was it not “arbitrary punishment” according to i
the Pro and Con? But I said I would prove it from I
himself and here it is ! I
" I do not affirm that in the adm inistration o f the divine government, |
arbitrarypunishment* have never occurred ; in scripture times it would ,
see no,’the divine dealings with m en were more direct and visible than
they have since been. In those dajrs, outward and sensible expression*
'of his displeasure against sin, sometimes occurred; as in the deluge, |
the destruction of Sodom, Babylon, Tyre, Sidon, and Jerusalem .”—!»
.
345. I
Here, then, we have it,that God has, on various occa­
sions, inflict«! “arbitrary punishment? and ergo, has
inflicted such punishment as is unnecessary, and which
‘»has no natural connection with the offence!” Now as
God hasinflictedarbitraryand unnecessary punishment,
(according to this author,) upon some of the transgres­
sors of his law, will he not, if he be impartial and im­
mutable, inflict similar punishment upon all transgresr
sors? The Pro and Con shall answer :
“ Now it is absolutely pitiful, yea, contem ptible, to give to passages
of this nature a partial application, as if Jehovah does not in his deal­
ing» with each and all of the transgressors of his taw, observe the same
sternalprinciples ofmercy andjustice.”—p. 347.
May I not add, that “it is absolutely pitiful, yea, con­
temptible,” for the Pro and Con to argue as he does :—
first come out and ridicule and lampoonthe idea of “ar­
bitrary punishment,” as being calculated to encourage ,
crime; in the second place acknowledge that God had
adopted this very ridiculous scheme of “arbitrary pun- '
ishment,” in a numberofinstances ; and lastof all, con- f
tend that God must necessarily “observe the same eter­
nal principles,” in punishing “ each and all Ofthe trans­
gressors of his law,” which will be to inflict “ arbitrary
punishment” upon every individual who dies in his
sins !¡—Hence, as hundreds and thousands of wicked
men have gone into eternity with no punishment except
remorse of conscience, which, the Pro and Con terms
“necessary p u n ish m e n tar\hw\\vàv\Va^e ticiovrawA.
.former chapter to he no puoiahTOfctA N
much characters vri\\ receive «ftterar;
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 435
hand of God in the eternal world, as certain as he is
immutable, and deals with all upon the same eternal
principles ! The Pro and Con himself admits, as before
quoted, that God does not now, in this dispensation, in­
flict " arbitrary punishment,” as he did in "scripture
times,” as he expresses it: and I really believe the man
thinks he has got entirely out of scripture times, from
the shere indifference with which he treats the bible.
He tells Us that arbitrary punishment, which God in­
flicted upon the Sodomites, (fee., is called his “ strange
work.”—p. 245. But strange as it is, this very Pro and
Con tells us, that the calamity which befell the Sodom­
ites was no more than a " suitable distinction ” between
the righteous*and the wicked!—pp. 262-3.
Now if God made a "suitable distinction” between
the. righteous and wicked, by pouring down fire and
brimstone upon the latter, who, as the apostle teaches,
suffered "the vengeance of eternalfire”will not such a
distinction be required in the future state, seeing we have
no such distinction now, and since God will deal upon
!he same eternal principles, "with each and all of the
transgressors of his law!” Now since the Pro and Con
is compelled to admit that God will inflict " arbitrary
punishment” in the eternal world, can that punishment
be endless misery? Yes, for he tells us that such is "ar­
bitrary punishment.” Will you hear it ?
41Can any body see any necessary, any reasonable connection be­
tw een the eating of an interdicted apple, and the suffering in cease­
less lire? It is not even pretended by those who take this view of the
subject, that the penalty threatened was otherwise than arbitrary.”—
p. 245. *
“ For is it pretended that between the sinful acts of men, and their
suffering in ceaseless fire, there is any necessary connection? If not,
then the penalty is arbitrary—p. 73.
Take notice; Jesus Christ is to "execute judgment,”
and consequently to be the “executioner,” under the pre­
sent dispensation, as all the apostles have taught. This
proves that all punishment for suns arbitrary
o fit that “necessarypunishment,” oi
Con speaks, for he positively teaches, as
436 UN 1V ER SA LIS M j
that in such punishment, “sin is Us own executioner.* .
Hence, it must be evident, that this is not the punish- I
ment ot the New Testament, for Christ is the execution- I
er of that! But hear him again: |
u Have punishm ents a reforming tendency? I f they have not, then
m ast it be adm itted that they are iiseless; for they cannot repair the
injury done by the offender; they do not prevent othersfrom commit­
ting thesame offense,”—p. 242.
Observe, reader, that if punishment has any other de­
sign, except the reformation ofthe offender, it is “use­
less* and hence, it must have but one object! This, the
above quotation plainly teaches. Now for a contradic­
tion.—Take notice, that the one, and only object of pun­
ishment is reformation. On the same page"he declares
that “punishment is of two kinds as to its nature, 23=»sev­
eral-, as to its OBJECTS” Now if reformation be the
only object of punishment; where, I ask, does he find
his “several objects?” But hear him again: After ad­
mitting (as before quoted) that God had inflicted “arbi­
trary punishments,” in the case of Sodom, Babylon, Je­
rusalem, &c., he remarks:
“ It is not pretended that in this class of punishm ents, the reformation \
of the punished is the immediate object; they are m eant as examples to '
oilers, and therefore they are benevolent, although not directly so to ths i
su’
jects themselves.”—p. 245. '
In the above quotation he contends that if punish­
ments be not for the reformation of the offender, it is
“useless.” Then, of course, God inflicted useless pun­
ishment upon the Sodomites, and hence the fact of end­
less misery being “useless,” as the Pro and Con argues, j
is no proof that God will not inflict it! But he admits
that the punishment of the Sodomites was “ meant as
an example to others,” and of course-to prevent oth­
ers from committing the same offence. In this he agrees
with the apostle Jude; but in agreeing with him, he
contradicts himself, for he declares in one of the above
quotations, that punishments “ do not prevent others
from committing the same OFFENSE,” and hence he
concludes thatthey are “useless” if they have any other
uobjectn except the ot t a s
a g a i n s t i t s e l f . 4S7
If this be not a jumble of contradictions, then I know not
what is. —
But more about this “reforming tendency.”
u B ut why should we be censured and punished for nnt if its com­
m ission be but the result of foreordination? You are answered, read­
er, so soon as you answer yourself, why you crush with detestation the
odious reptile under your foot, when you know that it cannot help be­
ing the reptile that it is.” —p. 297.
I answer, that I do not “ crush the odious reptile un­
der my foot” for its reformation, certainly; neither does
George Rogers, but simply to get it out of the way:
hence, as God punishes the sinner for the same object,
he does not therefore punish him for his good, but for the
good of others!
But should the Pro and Con design to be understood
as teaching that the reformation of the Sodomites was
the remote M eet of their destruction, as he appears to
intimate byme statement, that their reformation was not
the “immediate object,” still it leaves a serious difficul­
ty; for he there teaches that the “immediate object” oi
their punishment was to give us an “example,” and as
the remote object, must be farther distant than the im ­
mediate one, it follows that their reformation is not yet
effected! And as they have been in eternity nearly
4000 years without reformation, it is quite probable that
they will not be reformed till the resurrection; and ii
the resurrection reforms them, it will not be their pun­
ishment, and hence the great design, which the Pro and
Con holds out as the only design of punishment, was
not included in their case, neither immediately nor re­
motely! But if God reformed the Sodomites by their
destruction, when ail moral means failed, is it not our
duty to kill every man that will not be influenced by
the gospel, since we are to be instrumental in reforming
the world? Next comes the judgment
* 1 cannot be peTauaded, my hearers, that the doctrine o f a judg­
m ent after death haa been productive of any benefit to m ankind; w hat­
ever tends to encourage the impression that the retributions of guilt
are distant, end uncertain as distant—must necessarily he pernicious in
its influence.”—p. 218.
This, reader is a fair specimen of the "Pto w A Ciosx.—
MM*
4S8 U N I V E R S A L I S M
A judgment that is distantand uncertain^ is pernicious ’
in its influence.” Then, according to this, Christ and the I
apostles taught a most pernicious and licentious doc­
trine; forthe “everlasting punishment,”—“eternal dam­
nation,”—“fieryindignation,”—“everlasting fire,”—“un-
a
uenchable fire,” <fcc., <fcc., with which they threatened
le wicked, were all distant—yes, distant to the destruc­
tion of Jerusalem!! And they were as “ uncertain as
distant,” for the wicked Jews could have sinned on, till i
just before that judgment, and then have committed sui­
cide, and escaped safely to heaven. Or the very mur­
derers of Jesus Christ could have continued in their
wickedness until just before this calamity occurred, and
then embraced Christianity; and the Pro and Con informs
us that not one Christian perished in that seige. Thus
also they might have escaped, and thus the wicked had
two chances of escape from the “judgment day” of
Universalism, whilst they have but one chance to es­
cape the future and “eternal judgment” of the apostles,
and that is, by a reformation of life. And can a doctrine
be pernicious in its influence which holds out an “eter­
nal judgment,” from which there is no escape but by sub- I
mitting to God’s law? The Pro and Con should remem- j
ber that “they who live in glass houses should not throw I
stones at their neighbors.” He quotes Solomon to prove !
that the wicked will take advantage of this doctrine.
“Because sentence against an evil work is not executed
speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully.
set in them to do evil.” [Ec. 8. 11.] It is true the wickecl ,
may take advantage of this doctrine, but the feet that 1
they have no lease of their lives, and not knowing what
instant they may be struck dead, and knowing also, that
if they die in their sins, their destiny is eternally fixed,
no man, therefore, except one who is given over to hard­
ness of heart, and a reprobate mind, would risk his eter­
nal all, if he firmly believed this doctrine; and if he had j
become thus depraved, there is no probability of his ever J
reforming, if he should take advantage of this doctrine, j
and hence w ill meet with that ^
a g a i n s t i t s e l f . 40®
Pro and Con should be the last man to talk about the
wicked taking advantage of the doctrine of a future
judgment when he is inculcating a doctrine which is
calculated in every way to console a wicked man, and
encourage him to continue in his sins, with the absolute
certainty, that they shall all be overruled for his good,
and will enhance his happinessfo r eternity! The most
palpable subterfuge, to which the Pro and Con resorts,
is, that the penalty of Universalism is absolutely certain,
and from it there is no possible escape. I have noticed
this in another part of this work, (chap. 7,) but will here
remark, that we believe, as much as do Universalists,
that from remorse of conscience, (all the punishment
Universalism holds out,) there is no possibility of escap­
ing until the conscience becomes seared, and hence we
have all the punishment for which Universalists contend,
and just as certain too, as it is with them, and in addition
to this, we hold out an eternal penalty, which the sin­
ner is assured, will be as certainly inflicted, unless a re­
formation of life takes place before death. Thus we
have the advantage of the Pro and Con, every way it
can be turned. Suppose, as Solomon says, that the
hearts of the wicked will be bent in them to do evil, be­
cause the penalty against an evil work was not execut­
ed speedily, would it not be worse, if, when the penalty
was inflicted, they would know nothing about it? which
is absolutely the case, as regards the penalty of Univer­
salism, with perhaps three fourths of all the wicked on
earth!—When Noah (the preacher of righteousness)
was proclaiming to the antediluvians, that in a Hundred
and Twenty Years a most dreadful calamity would
come upon them, if, they did not repent;—the Pro and
Con would have informed him, had he been there, that
he was preaching a most “pernicious,”—most licentious
doctrine, in putting the judgment off sofar! And would,
no doubt, have challenged him to a discussion of his
orthodox principles: and yet, that old orthodox Noah
preached nothing but what the Aim fchfty
Bear him again:
440 U N IV ER & AL iiS M
* T he Jews deemed better of their God,—more philosophically—aa ]
all-seeing—all-pervading spirit—all just, and pure, and good—whost |
tribunal is in the bosom of every thinking being: w hat needs he of an
external bar?—of books and witness, and other o f the forms and cere­
m onies of trial? The Jewish scriptures sanction no such puerile rep­
resentations of the infinite Jehovah. Sham e to C hristians, that they
have copied the crude conceptions of heathenism ? ” — p. 216. I
Truly this is wholesaling business with a rush! “The
Jewish scriptures sanction no such puerile representa­
tions of the infinite Jehovah.” This is not true, (leaving i
out the “puerile,” for the Jewish scriptures inform us, j
that the Almighty himself, did require, in order to carry
on his government, an “external bar,” “books and wit­
nesses;” and a man was brought before that “ external
bar,” and his case was decidedaccording to the “books”
of Moses, which God had given, and which he had writ­
ten with his own finger;) and “died*without mercy un­
der two or three witnesses.” If God’s “tribunal is in
the bosom of every thinking being,” and he has no need ,
of “books” why did he give us die Old and New Tes- !
taments? If the Almighty had no more need of those
books than the Pro and Con has, then surely he would
never have been to the trouble of making them!
What a “puerile” and ridiculous thing it was, forthe
Israelites to sprinkle the blood of the paschal lamb upon
their door-lintals, that the “infinite Jehovah,” when he ,
came down that night to slay the Egyptians, might not
make a mistake and hit upon the wrong ones!!! “Shame
to you, Moses, that you have copied the crude concep­
tions of heathenism.” It is really time, in all gravity, j
that such scepticism, especially among professed believ­
ers, was done away with. And the Pro and Con does
absolutely repent of it, when he gets over towards the
close of his book.
UI ira sick of this hypercritical scepticism, [good!! !1 w hich is ever
directing its vulture glance to the spying out ofdifficulties in every
thing proposed to itsfaith, and rejecting, [just a t you did, sir!] with fey
complacent decisiveness all that comes not within the narrow compass of
its apprehension/” —p. 344.
No wonder the iron gob state. Yef^^T&cal
a g a i n s t i t s e l ,*\ 441
scepticism,” for whoever reads the three hundred and
forty pages of his book preceding this quotation, if he
does not find enough of that commodity to make any
reasonable man sick, then I’ll give up! Universalism
and scepticism are so near identical, that let a Univer-
salist preach many of his peculiarities in an infidel
neighborhood where he was not known, and he would
be claimed as a fellow-helper by all the Deists in the
audience. The author of the Pro and Con, in his Me­
moranda,” gives an incident of his labors, which proves
this assertion:
u R eturning to Delhi, I had a less pleasant m eeting than before. I
then discovered that the principal men of the town were sceptics, of
the Owen School, and that they had m istaken me to be of sim ilar sen­
tim ents.” —p. 102.
He howeverproceeded, as he tells us on the next page,
to correct their mistake, and accordingly pointed out
the difference between Universalism and Scepticism,
and in conclusion he informs us that “this address was
respectfully received by the audience.” No wonder,
for they were all Deists, and they are the very men who
will receive Universalism with “all readiness of mind,”
as the best cloak fortheir infidelity! Hence, you hard­
ly ever find an avowed infidel where Universalism flour­
ishes. The latter is the most popular of the two, and
hence names are shifted, which is the only thing requi­
site in making sceptics converts toUniversalism! This
same author in his “ Memoranda” bears me out also
in this statement:
“ In any comm unity, of which Uuiversalists compose a considerable
portion, you shall invariably find fewer infidels, [i. e. avowed infidels,]
th an w here orthodox forma of religion have exclusive sway.” — p. 107.
This can all be accounted for, without admittingUni-
versalism to be either true or reasonable, neither of
which it is, most assuredly!
Speaking, in the same work, of yonng Universalist
preachers opposing orthodoxy, and showing off their
“smartness” by lampooning creeds, spurred onward
by the "smiles,” "nods,” and “grins” ot \\ve.
makes the following very true remark*.
44* U N I V E R S A L I S M
“ B ut ah, m e! how little worth 1a this tort of incense? [these tigni of
approval.] From whom cornea it in general? From the wise? the
good? the sincere? the lover of Christ’* cause?— Seldom from either.
More generally, rather, from those who would applaud tonne's ribald­
ries at the expense ofall religion—p. 997.
Now does not the reader know, if he has ever heard |
a smart Universalist preacher declaim against ortho- ]
doxy, that the whole audience of Universalists, littleand I
big, will cheer him up with just such “smiles,” “grins,” |
and “nods,” which this author testifies tocome, not from
the wise, the good, the sincere, or the lover op
Christ’s cause ; but from “those who would applaud
Paine’s ribaldries at the expense of all reli­
gion.” From this it is evident that nineteen twentieths
of all Universalists are infidels at heart,—neither wise,
good, sincere, nor lovers of Christ’s cause ! Apoor
recommendation truely!
“ ‘ W hat can we reason but from what we know ? 9 the P oet asks;
and from all that we can know at present, the probabilities' seem de­
cidedly against the supposition, that it is possible for Jehovah to create
sentient creature« who, from the com m encem ent of their existence,
•hall be in possession of absolute and unmixed felicity; it seem s a fair
presumption, that, were it possible, his infinite goodness would have so
created and circumstanced them, that to all eternity, all creatures should
be utter strangers to want, or pain, or to anything which would render
their happiness incomplete”—p. 327.
Now, reader, take notice;—the Pro and Con has ab­
solutely come out, and acknowledged that it was not
possible for God to create man and keep him from being
sinful and miserable, and that if he could have done it
he would have so created him, that he would to all eter­
nity be an entire stranger to everything like want, or
pain, or anything that would render his happiness in­
complete. Well, since God could not possibly prevent
sin and suffering from having an existence, how in the
name of reason can he ever annihilate them, since his
power can be no stronger at one time than at another?
If God, in the creation could not make man so, but that
he must necessarilybe smfvd andmiserable, bow can the
I
AGAINST ITSELF. 443
Pro and Con infer that God, who is without variable­
ness or shadow of turning, will be able to better the
matter in the resurrection? Butupon this point also he
contradicts himself.
“ On this ground alone, as I conceive, [i. e. that sin shall result in
good,] can the Alm ighty ruler of the universe be acquitted of folly or
cruelty, in having perm itted sin and suffering to enter the world— for
Qgrnone arc so W EA K as tosuppose that he could nothave had it other-
w iser—p. 91.
Yes sir, you are just that “weak” yourself! and it is
my candid belief that you do not know what you dobe­
lieve, or by what motives you are actuated. Do you
think, reader, that I am too h^rd? If you do, read the
following from the preface to his “ M e m o r a n d a .”
“ W hen a man takes it upon him self to write his own history, he is,
we may suppose, either moved thereto by a propensity to egotism, orhe
is persuaded that he i§fulfilling a duty to the public.—W ith the former
of these motives the author feels that he is liable to bo charged, with
what truth Godonly knows? for he confesses thathehimselfdoesnot.m
But we pass on to notice about a dozen more contra­
dictions. In trying to dispose of two texts of scriptuie,
which he had brought up as objections to answer, [i. e.
Dan. 12. 2.: John 5. 28,29.] he gives us the following:
“ It is granted that the above texts are parallel, but this very adm is­
sion is fatal to the objection; for Christ has fixed the time of the event
to w hich they refer, [ootk, m ark it,l at the period of the overthrow ofthe
Jewish state.’--T hus much as regards the timeof this resurrection, which,
instead of bein^ at the end ofthe world, as our opponent thinks,
past by nearly eighteen centuries.” —pp. 221-2.
The reader will bear in mind that the resurrection
spoken of in these two texts, “is past by nearly eighteen
centuries” as was fulfilled at the destruction of Jerusa­
lem, or, “the overthrow of the Jewish state” Now turn
over only one leaf and read:
“ On the whole then, it must, I think, be m anifest to the enlight­
ened reader, that the import of the passages before us is, that Christ, by
the word of his gospel, and the m inistry of his apostles, was about io
call m en forth from the graves of superstition and ignorance, in which
they had long been buried.— This important work had aheady begun in
Christ's day, [not at the destruction of Jerusalem l\ b a t it vr*&
U N I V ER S A L IS M
linedtoon to uke effect upon a much wider male, and, erentuallr,
0^ -tl thaU te UNIVERSAL in iU extent!! p. 224.
How a man can so flatly contradict himself within
two page8| is wholly unaccountable, only upon the
ground that he is endeavoring to defend an irreconcila­
ble and erjntradictory system! First he tells us that it
referred to the “overthrow of the Jewish state,” as the
time of its fulfillment, and then informs us that it was
fulfilling “in Chrisfs day ! ” First tells us that it ispast
by nearly “eighteen centuries,” and then informs us that
“eventually it SHALL BE universal in its extent”
This, mark it, is his own language, “ IT SHALL BE,”
which places this resurrection still in the future to us!
and still it was fulfilled “nearly eighteen centuries”ago!
If the Pro and Con can have a universal resurrectionful­
filled “eighteen centuries”ago,may nothis universalsal­
vation be all over with, ever since the destruction of Je­
rusalem, and all who have sincelived be eternally lost?!
But if the Pro and Con would prefer the name of con­
tradicting himself, rather than to have his universal sal­
vation end at the “overthrow of the Jewish state,” he
may have it so; and then it follows, that, as this resur­
rection is to be “universal,” it will embrace the Sodom­
ites and antediluvians, which proves it to refer to the
literal resurrection; and thus the Pro and Con is una­
voidably compelled to admit that in the literal resurrec­
tion some shall come forth “ to the resurrection o f dam­
nation ! ” Hard, I know, but it is fair! It is a trap of
his own setting. But when Christ speaks of “graves,”,
“resurrection,”coming forth, etc., he does not mean what
he says, according to the Pro and Con: no, he means
something altogether different! Mark this, and read
again:
“ I sincerely thank my friend for the conciseness and explicitness of
his objections; it shall not be the fault of my will if my replies are not
equally concise and explicit, lat. He grant» the gram m atical correct­
ness o f the criticism on the text, which makes nations (not individu­
als) the parties arraigned and separated in the judgm ent th at it fore-
te}l$; yet he thinks C hrist covrii not \\a\e. dcugned xckat his language
fairly meantl Thisyin eject, is to accuse him of not howvrvg W*t
to exprrtt hie m ea n in g .'M Yl%—
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 445
Yes, and George Rogers is the very man who has
made out Christjust that ignorant, in his comment on
John 5. 29, just examined! “Out of thine own mouth
will I condemn thee.” Again:
“ It is a common practice to rtfer this passage to the literal term i­
nation of this world, but such is obviously not the scriptural meaning
of the phrase ‘ end of the w orld;1 it never requires such an interpreter
turn, but on the contrary invariably meant the consummation of the Jew
ith economy! Paul calls the period at which Christ died. ' the end of
the world.’ [Heb. 9. 26.]” — 170.
Hence “the period at which Ch r ist d ie d ” was “the
consummation of the Jewish economy” for he tells us
that “the endof the world” does refer to Christ’s death,
and “INVARIABLY means the consummation^ of the
Jewish economy” Then, of course, when the disciples
wished to know of the Lord what should be the “sign
of his coming, and of the end of the world” (Math. 24.
3,) they referred to his death! Bear this in mind:
“ T hirds ‘ And of the end of the w orld?’ This, however, is not
properly a third question, but m erely a m em ber of the second: *the
sign o f tby coming, and of the end of the world,’ (tou aionos) end of
the age or Mosaic economy; for the disciples understood that the de
struttion of the city and temple would close the Jewish dispensation—
p. 183.
This is so gross ahd palpableacontradiction, thatthe
most superficialreadercandiscover it, withoutcomment.
Again : in commenting on 2 Pet. 3. 5-7, he admits that
the antediluvians who were destroyed in the food are
yet to be destroyed by fire! Read what follows:
“ Should it be objected, that, inasmuch as there is an allusion in the
connection to the destruction of the old world by water, and it took
place literally,.therefore we ought to understand the predicted de­
struction by fire in a sim ilar sense. I answ er that in point of fact, the
old world was not, itself, destroyed by the deluge; inhabi­
tants only were destroyed—and the writer him self saith
SAME WORLD IS KEPT IN STORE RESERVED UNTO FIRE.” —p. 207.
Now as the old world which was destroyed, s;gnifies
the inh abitants, and as “the same would is kept in
store reserved unto f i r e ,” as the Pro and Con here
testifies it follows that the inh a b it a n t s,
446 U N I V E R S A L I S M
1
stroyed in the flood are yet to be destroyed by f i r s ; .
and this cannot be, as a matter of course^ till the resur- '
rection,when the antediluviansshall come forth “tothe |
resurrection of damnation.” Thus the Pro andConad- j
mits that Peter is speaking of a judgment at the end of i
time! But now comes the contradiction:
“ From the whole then it must be apparent to all m y attentive hear- |
era, that Peter is speaking of no other judgment than that which was
to accompany the dissolution of the old covenan r, and the usheeu» I
in of the new.” — ibid.
And as the end of the old covenant, or the Jewish
dispensation, was at the death of Christ, which the Pro
and Con asserts, as already quoted, it follows that the
whole of this judgment scene was past, when Peter
pennedthis prediction,andyettheignorant apostleknew
no better than to put the matter off still in the future!
We shall now notice his comment on the text, “And so
all Israel shall be saved.” Rom. 11. 26. You will ob­
serve that he quotes this text to prove the universal sal­
vation of theJewish nation, and hence must, as a neces­
sary conclusion, understand “all Israel” to embrace
those millions of the Jews who had already been dead !
and in eternity for hundreds of years. j
“ T hat Paul was not speaking of Israel i/1 any such restricted sense, j
is exceeding obvious. ‘ A ll Israel shall be saved,’ the same Israel that [
were yet in their sins, that ‘ were blinded,’ that ‘were enemies to j
the gospel,’ that were all *concluded in unbelief.’ A nd this is to be
effected when ' the fullness of the Gentiles be come in ." '— p. 117. I
This proves that those wicked Jews who had fallen j
in the wilderness “were yet in their sins,”—“ were in­
cluded in unbelief” and “were enemies to the gospel? 1
1
Consequently they had been suffering torment in the i
eternal world for nearly two thousand years, as thePro !
and Con teaches, that sin and miseryalways go handin
hand! Does this look like all sin and suffering being
confined to this life ? Not hardly! But again:
( “ I choose to assum e that man is in some degree m aster ofhisvoli­
tions, and the actions thence ensuing; that in many cases he OMI0
both w il l , and do, otherwise yule ia vre. uova.” —q. 133.
AGAINST ITSELF, 447
Observe new how this will harmonize with the fol­
lowing:
“ You m ust see, reader, that the notion of a free will is a chime­
r a .” —p. 290.
“ Believe me reader, that it is not possible to avoid the conclusion,
th a t all events take place, agreeably to the unalterable decrees of Je­
hovah.” —p. 300.
Now I ask common sense, how a man “could both
w ill and do otherwisethan as he does,” if “the notion of
a free will is a chimera,” and if “all events take
place agreeably to the unalterable decrees of Jeho­
vah? Did God unalterably decree that man should do
just as he does? Yes, if he decrees all events. Can
man do differently from what he does? If so, then he
can break “the unalterable decrees of Jehovah.” IfGod
had unalterably decreed all events, then it would beout
of the question for a man to feel the least responsibility
for his conduct, unless he thinks he has it in his power
to break those “unalterable decrees/ ” Does the Pro
Con think theycan be broken? He does, as I will now
prove:
“ On the 5th the congregation were moat im m inently endangered by
a storm which blew np, just aa I had got through prayer. T he storm
w hich arose was one of wind, lightning, and h ail; I confess that I felt
a fearful responsibility resting on me, in having been the occasion of so
m any people being brought together in so dangerous a situation.”
“ M em orandap. 321.
This is trulysingular,—he “felt afearful responsibil­
ity resting on him,” for doing what Goa, from all eter­
nity had unalterably decreed that he should do at that
very time! andwhich he was no more to blamefor,than
he was for that storm coming up, since “the notion of a
fr ee will is a chimera!” Suppose that storm had
blowed the house down, and killed Mr. Rogers and the
whole audience, it would have been nothing to fret
about, as it, too, would have been according to the un­
alterable decree of Jehovah! Why then feel a “fearful
responsibility,” let come what will? But more upon
this point. It must,according to,the Pro and Con, have
been unalterably decreed from all eternity, that ChtvgX
should die at the very time he didl
448 U N I V E R S A L ISM
“ We find, indeed, that Jesus seized upon everyfittingoccasionfor
com m unicating these stupenduous m atters to his countrym en, not, to
be sure, in plain language, for they would net have borne it; he would
thus have enraged them against him , and the catastrophe o f his death
w ould have been hastened before tho other great objects of his mission
were fulfilled.” —p. 172.
u W e are directly informed that ‘ the common people heard him glad*
ly ;* (Mark 12. 37,) but for them , he would have fatten a victim to the
m alice of His foes before he did,”— p. 190.
Thus, we learn,that had it not been for the mere cir­
cumstanceof Christmakinguseof mysterious language,
and of the common people being present on one occa­
sion, the priests and Pharisees would have killed Christ
long before his time, andthushave broken “the unalter­
able decree of Jehovah!” These circumstances were
possible, hence it was possible to break that unalterable
decree; andifoneofGod’sunalterabledecreescouldhave
been broken, may it not be possible for another to give
way? And where then is the absolute certainty of uni­
versal salvation, even admitting thatGod haddecreedit?
“ It is som ewhat singular, nay, it is very rem arkable, that while all
other nations had their respective hells, the Jews, who w ere especial­
ly instructed in religion by Jehovah for the space of 2000 years,
0^7" were without any ideas on that subject.”—p. 278.
Yes, these Jews had no idea of hell punishment, yet
he tells us, that in the days of the Saviour rd5
*
“ these
classes themselves believed in endless m is e r y (p. 190.)
Yet they 4
4were without any ideas on the subject! ”
1
1T o me this seems the most probable construction of the tex t; for
gehenna was associated in the minda of the Jews, with everything hor­
rid, loathsome, and abominable.”—p. 277.
Weil, as the Jews had an idea of 6
S
endless misery ”
they must have understood gehenna to signify that: {or,
mark the fact, it “was associated in the minds of Jews,
with every thing Ed^HORRID, loathsomeand abomina­
ble /” Now let us see, if the Pro and Con will notcon«
tradict all this, and tell usthat gehenna,(thewordtrans­
lated hell,) was not understoodtosignify any such thing!
“ Others again think* that Jehtfvah is alluded to, as the object to be
feared, not on the ground of him ability to destroy in a hell beyond the
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 44*
grave, for gekenna* in that day f t j - wat not received in any tuck sense.”
—p. 277.
Then it was not understood as signifying every thing
“ h o r r id ” for the Pro and Con tells us that the Jews at
that time held the 4
4h o r r id ” dogmaof an endless hell, so
that there is a contradiction out some place! But again:
“ But my opponent represents it [Universalism] as holding out en­
couragem ent to sin, by telling men, that the shorter they render their
stay on earth by their crimes, the sooner they will get to heave».*Now
th is objection to Universal ram rests upon the false assum ption that men
pass, according to this theory, imm ediately from earth to heaven. T his
is a mistake!”—p. 149.
Now you will observe, that men do not go to heaven
when they die, but to an intermediate state, where they
remain until the resurrection, when they are admitted
to heaven; and this is the only reason he can assign
why men should not commit suicide, if Universalism be
true! As this is the only objection to suicide, we will
let this author clear it up in his “Memoranda.”
“ During the day the preaching was done in the woods, and at night
in the Union meeting-house. T he assemblage present was large, per.
haps num bering two thousand persons. Many were present from dis-
tances of fifty or sixty miles, and many also who were zealous and
strong m en in our Israel. T here were Jacob Felter, XTnowin HEAV­
EN.” —p. 183.
Thus JacobFelter wentto h e a v en when he died, with­
out waiting for the resurrection, and as Universalism
teaches that sin cannot extend beyond this life, and con­
sequently that all are equally safe after death, it follows
that other folks can go to heaven at death, as well as
Jacob Felter, it matters not what death they die, only if
they die by suicide they will set there the sooner, which
makes it preferable to any other f But he admits that
Paul expressed great anxiety with regard to the ultimate
salvation of the Jews. Notice his language.
wNow for the Jew s. W as Paul a believer in their ultimate salva­
tion? What, then, m eans the anxiety expressed in the following Ian.
guage? ‘ Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is,
that they might -be saved;* (Rom. 10. 1,) and the following is even more
expressive of anxiety, [i. e. anxiety of course for their ultimate salva­
tion/) *l*ar the truth in Christ, I lie not, my
3S KN*
450 U N I V E R B A L I S M
m e witneM in the Holy Ghost, that / havegreatheavinessand continual
sorrow ofheart, for I could wish that m yself were accursed from Christ,
for my brethren, my kinsm en according to the flesh.9 (Rom . 9. 1*3.)"
p. 115.
The reader will bear in mind that all this a n x ie ty
so rro w , and h e a v in e s s o f h e a r t which the apostle expe­
rienced, was with regard to the Jews, “ultimate salva­
tion,” which is a palpable acknowledgment that their
ultimate salvation was exceedingly d o u b tfu l. But the
Pro and Con, as usual, turns round, and contradictshim­
self; or rather, he contradicts himself before he hastime
to turn round.
“ T his language, dear reader, is easily accounted for, w ithout resolv­
ing it into the fears he entertainedfor theirfate beyond the grave; for on
that head, as shall be shown, he had no fears w hatever.99-r-ibid.
He admits that Cornelius would not have been saved
in the future life had he not have feared God and work­
ed righteousness, and had he died without knowing
Christ.
“ T h at Cornelius would hove been saved in the future life, even
though he had not known Christ in this, is evident from Peter's own
toords on the occasion: ‘ Of a truth,9 said he, ‘ I perceive that God is no
respecter of persons, but in every nation he that feareth God and work-
eth righteousness, is accepted of him.999—Memoranda, p. 135.
Thus, the only reason why Cornelius would, have
been saved in the future life, had he not known Christ
in this, is, thathef e a r e d G o d a n d w o rk e d r ig h te o u s n e s s !
Had he not have feared God and worked nghteousness,
and had he died before he came to know Christ, he
would, according to a fair construction of this author’s
language, have railed of the ultimate salvation!
After quoting the text which speaksof the destruction
of both soul and body in hell, he gives two reasons why
it cannot refer to punishment beyond the grave, the lat­
ter of which we quote.
“ T he second fact is, that the body, which those whom they were
told not to fear had the power to kill, is not liable to destruction m a
hell beyond the grave, but returns to the dust ofthe earthfrom whence it
originated. How, then, can gehenna, in this instance, im ply a place
o f torment in a future et&tel It cm oO''—
AGAINST IT S E L F . 45!
In this, as the most superficial readercan discover, he
denies the resurrection of the body. It cannot, he tells
ns, be punished beyond the grave, from the fact that it
r e tu r n s to th e d u s t o f th e e a rth , fromwhence it originat­
ed. See, now, if he does not get “ s ic k ” of this likewise!
4
1Paul assuredly speaks of a rising again of the tame body which is
laid in thegrave. So also is the resurrection of the d ead: it is sown in
corruption, it is raised in incorruption.”—p. 343.
This, mark it, is the same page where he got “ s ic k o f
that h y p e r c r itic a l s c e p tic is m , which is ever directing its
vulture glance to the spying out of d ifficu lties in every
thing proposed to its faith,”just as he had done in more
than fifty instances before, oneof which is quoted above.
It was “proposed to his faith” by the Lord himself, that
we should not fear man who only had power to kill the
body, but that we should fear God, who was able to de­
stroy b o th so u l a n d b o d y in h e ll: butthis “hypercritical
sceptic” commenced immediately to the “spying out of
difficulties.” This is one way he has of disposing of a
text which contradicts his theory; and another is, by
making it part literal and part figurative, or by making
it all figurative, whichever suits his purpose best. This
I will show to be no misrepresentation. Look at his
exposition of the rich man and Lazarus.
“ By the ‘ rich man* is m eant the Jewish nation, which for centuries
had abounded in all spiritual privileges, in this sense4they fared sum p­
tuously every day,9 and in the persons of their priesthood were literally
slad 4in purple arid fine linen.' C hrist represents A braham hs saying
in regard to them, 4I f they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither
will they be persuaded though one rosefrom the dead,’ which was lit­
erally true, for Christ had actually raised one Latarus to life, and they
yet rem ained as unbelieving as before.” —p. 168.
Thus the “ ric h m a n ” was a figure, but his “ p u r p le
a n d f i n e l i n e n was l i t e r a l :—Lazarus was lite r a l, and
Christ lite r a lly raised him from the dead; but the gulf
was a figure, and signified moral b lin d n e s s ! This is
certainly an accommodating parable. But there is a
serious difficultyhere in the way, according to the above
e x p o sitio n . T h e ric h man, who had died. and.
m U N I V E R B A L I S M
hell, signifies the whole Jewish nation. But he had
five brethren, who were they? O, they were the Jew­
ish nation too, according to the,Pro and Con, for he takes
the language of Abraham concerning them, “If they
hear not Moses and the prophets,7
’ &c., and applies itto
the Jewish nation, as you will see by the above quota­
tion.
I shall now notice his evasion of the text in Peter, re­
lative to the “new heavens and the new earth,” as a
specimen of Universalism upon all puzzling points. By
a little attention to this example, the reader will be ena­
bled to foil this system in its most successful attempts
at evasion.
u Now that the 13th verse figuratively represents the gospel state, no
attentive student of the bible w ill Question. *N evertheless, we, ae- 1
cording to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein
dwelleth righteousness,’ [2 Peter 2. 13.] W ith this com pare the fol­
lowing in Isaiah: 'F o r behold I create new heavens and a new earth,
and the former shall not be remembered nor come in to m ind. But be
Je glad and rejoice forever in that which 1 create; for behold I create
eruealem a rejoicing, and her people a joy; and the voice o f weeping
shall no more be heard in her, nor the voice o f cry in g ; T h ere shall be
no more thence an infant of days, nor m old m an th at b ath not filled i
his days; for the child shall die an hundred years old-; but the sinner j
being an hundred years old shall be accursed. A nd they shall build j
bouses and inhabit them , and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the |
fruit of them,9 dec. [Is. 65. 17-20.] T his cannot belong to eternity, for j
it is presum ed that people will not there build houses, nor plant vineyardt,
nor die even in their hundredth year.” —p. 206. j
You will discover, reader, that in order to carry his
e
the Pro and Con first assumes that the text in I
is figurative;—then quotes the text in Isaiah to
prove it; but in order that this text prove his point, he
assumes that building houses, planting vineyards, &c.,
are tobe understood literally,and this being so, it follows
that the new heavens andnew earth arefigurative ! But 1
I wonder if thePro and Con thinks us all a setof dupes, I
and that we will sit dormant, and let him assume the
eyes out of our heads? Not exactly. We have as good
a right (yes, far better^ to assume that the new heavens
and new earth (the ot\\y verj va tbe (
AGAINST ITSELF 453
prediction) are literal, and that the inferior and minor
points, such as building houses and planting vineyards
are to be understood as a figurative representation of that
46moral advancement” which the Pro and Con has
taught us will be “progressive” in the eternal world!
This is a principle, I venture the assertion, that Univer-
salists never thought of. They consider themselves a
superior class of beings,—a highly favored and privi­
leged people, and that the orthodox are compelled to bow*
with all reverential submission to all their whims and
assumptions! But it is hoped that the above will learn
them a lesson worth two of that! Reader, when a Uni-
versalist attempts to offset your arguments by quoting
and applying scripture as above, give him this principle,
and the ship BALLOU will just then run foul of a break­
er! But the Pro and Con must necessarily contradict
himself upon this point, as it would be a departure from
a general principle should he not! He argues, as above
quoted, that the new heavens and new earth meant the
gospel dispensation, and that they were created« of
course, when the church of Christ commenced*
“ T hanks be to G od! I lie under no such obligation! T he light o f
his word shines sufficiently bright on the pathw ay of m y inquiries on
these subjects to satisfy my understanding and my hopes. It inform s
m e that *in the beginning God created the heavens ana the e a fiV but
no m ention is made of his having created a hell. So also a t the eon»
elusion it speaks o f 4a new heaven and a new earth,» but nothing w hat­
ever o f a new hell.” —p. 280.
Thus he admitsthatthe “new heavens and nbw earth”
are put in contrastwith the4
4heavens and earth ” which
God created “in the beginning,” which were literal of
course; and hence the “new heavens and new earth”
must also be literal, as the apostles could not be guilty
of such nonsense, as contrasting the commencement of
a dispensation with the creation of the literal heavens
and earth! But the first heaven and earth was created
“in the beginning,” that is, the beginning of time, and
the Pro and Con puts the new heavens and new earth
us t the conclusion ” which places them vcv
«84 U N I V E t t S A L I S M
aft-time has not yet certainly come to a “c o n c lu s io n i
Again: After telling us that the text in Isaiah, relative
to the new heavens and new earth, could not refer to
the future state, but signified the Christian dispensation,
he adds:
“ John, in Revelations, describes the same state of things.—‘And I
mw a new heaven and a new earth; for the first heaven and the first
earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw
the holy eity, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven,
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great
voice out of heaven, saying, behold the tabernacle of God is with men,
and he will dwell with them and they shall be hia people, and God
himself shall be with them and be their God. And God shall wipe
away all teartfrom their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither
sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any morepain; for theformer
thingwarepasted away.’
*”—p. SOi
The reader will bear in mind that this all is figura­
tive, according to the Pro and Con, belonging to this
world, and does not refer to the future state! No more
death—no more tears—no more sorrow, “fo r the former
things are passed away?—all this isfigurative and be­
longs to this life! But let us read again.
“ Undoubtedly the several passages in this book {Revelations] which
«peak of these events, are to be understood as implying, that under the
benign government of Messiah allevils, both physical and moral, shall |
come to an ultixat« end; no more teart—
no more night—NO MORE
DEATH—no moretin—no moresickness, nor sorrow, ‘for the formbi
m ixes SHALL be done away 9
—no farther need ofJun, nor moon, furthe
quenchless, and unsettling glorv of Jehovah, shall be thefuture light tf
all ittteUigeneesforever.m —p. 217.
Ten pages back, it all belonged to this present-time,
and did not refer to the future state at all; but now he
pets “sick of this view, and comes to the conclusion that
it refers to that period when “all evils,both physicaland
moral;shall come to an ULTIMATE END,”and that
it refers to that state of existence where (?
Jehovah shall
he the future light of all intelligences forever,” which
most flatly contradicts his former position, that it be­
longs to this life; for the Pro and Con will not contend
that uall intelligences” enjoy that light in this world!
u We aae not, as aeea the aW-«ee\Tig he aaw
•xsmple, suffering under the oi Cct\av.
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 455
oft seen others suffering under the cruelties of Montezuma, and in that
case the sufferings of tne latter were but ajust measure ofreiribiuiion”
—p. 201.
But suppose Montezuma had escaped these cruelties,
he would consequently have gone into eternity without
“ a ju st measure of retrib u tio n and as certain as God
isjust, he would have received it in the eternal world!
—Look at that sailor—that pirate, whohas tortured and
butchered his hundreds of innocent men, women, and
children, and fiually he drops into eternity with less suf­
ferings than men in general experience:—where does he
get his ‘'just measure o f retribution ?” Not in this life
certainly, and hence he must get it in eternity! But the
Pro and Con will say, as he frequently does, that his
“just measure of retribution” was the compunctions of
conscience which he experienced, as he committed the
crimes. But how did it happen that Montezuma did not
get his “just measure of retribution” from the compunc­
tions of conscience, without having to suffer under the
cruelties of Cortez? Conscience, it appears in that case,
could not meet the demands of justice! But we will
now let the Pro and Condecide how conscience operates
upon that sailor.
u The cheek of the mariner is blanched with dismay, and the prayer
of agony quavers on his lips, when his storm-tossed vessel seems on
the point of being engulphed in.the troubled element beneath him;
but the danger passed, he laughs at his fears and blasphemes the name
of God without compunction! ” *-p. 199.
This is admitting that the conscience of a wicked man
will not goad him, only when he is about to be launch­
ed into the realities of a dreadful eternity. Had that
mariner been a regular Universalist, his conscience
' would have felt no remorse, and his soul would not have
been thus overwhelmed with alarm, when he came to
stand upon the precincts of eternity. It was the fear of
a judgment after death which so harrowed up his guilty
soul, as the Pro and Con admits, in the sentence just
preceding this quotation! Now, as he confesses that
those wicked mariners will “blasphemethe
witAout compunction,” how will they ever qpy^a yu&t
<56 UNIVER8ALISM
measure of retribution? if they continue thus to bias- *
pheme the name of God for years, as hundreds of them
do, and finally go into eternity in an instant, without
even time to feel remorse? If Montezuma got “ a just
measure of retribution? and no more than justice, then
these blaspheming mariners must suffer for their sins in
the future life. But how much punishment must they
endure? Read the following.
44T he la v of God, «peakingof it not in a particular, but in a general
sense, is a copy of his eternal perfections—is a necessary emanation
from his pure and holy nature. On his law, therefore, the divine being
has stamped the impress of himself. No thinking m an w ill hesitate a
m oment to adm it this fact.” —p. 70.
Thus he admits that the “law of God ” is infinite, as
it is “ a copy o f his eternal perfections ”— ua necessary
emanation from his pure and holy nature? on which
he “has stamped the impress of himself!m
} As the law
of God is thus declared to be infinite, its penalties must,
like itself, be also infinite, as penalties, in one sense, is
a component part of the law; and thus we have infinite
punishment as a necessary and logical conclusion. But
he makes out that the Almighty himself will not endure
in the future state. j
4
4M y opponent’s supposition, then, you perceive, thnt the everlasting \
kingdom ofChri»t in in eternity, is quite wide o f the fact.” — p. 140. '
Thus he makes out that the kingdom o f Christ will I
not extend into eternity, but will end with time.
u T he rining from them a line of prophets reaching dow n ia unBro- I
ken succession to the rise of the prophet of prophets, C hrist Messiah, ]
through whom a more glorious kingdom should be established aa wide
in its sway as the extension of being, and as lasGng as the age of the '
Most High.”—p. 287.
Then, ofcourse, if the kingdom of Christ is “as last- i
ing as the age of the Most H igh? and still, will not ex­
tend into eternity, follows it not, then, that the age of
the Most High will cease with the duration of time!
But this is not the worst of it, for the very logic of the
Pro and Con makes owl that there is no God, never was,
nor never will bel
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 407
'•♦It is know n to every attentive bibJica! student, that in figurative
language a person was said to be the child of any circumstances, or ah
tlract quality by w hich he was distinguished; hence we read of chil-
dr n if light—of the day—of darkness—of Belial—of Qod. I f we are
to understand any of these expressions in a strict sente, why not aUt
Is it not obvious that neither ofthese were designed for a literal inter•
prelation.' ”— p. 83.
Hence we are driven into the conclusion that Ood is
no more than an “ abstract quality”—nomore of a real
being than “Belial.” which the Pro and Con asserts to
be nothing more than a mere principle of evil! I have
always thought that Universalistscould philosophize the
Almighty out of existence, upon the same principle they
do the devil; but I never knew before that any of them
had tried the experiment! When Tcharge the Pro and
Con with absurdity,the reader must discoverthat I have
ground for the charge. See another example:
••U niversalists maintain that God’s love is at strong beyond, as on
this side of the grave; and that w hat it fails of accomplishing here, it
wiil infallibly accomplish hereafter.” —p. 67.
Yes! because “God’s love is as strong” and no
stronger beyond the grave than it is this side, therefore
it will certainly do in eternitywhat it cannot do in tim e!
Of all men to draw conclusions, that Pro and Con takes
the lead!
•• For we think (as my opponent has said) that a doctrine matt be
false. w hich can fairly be reduced to an absurdity.”—p. 148.
Then the Pro and Con “must be false,” for a greater
bundle of absurdities and contradictions was never,
wrapped up in the same amount of paper!
u It is adm itted that if a doctrine be of badpractical tendency, how­
ever plausible in itself, the divine sanation must not beclaimedfor it”—
p. 44.
We shall now close these strictures, by taking up the
Pro and Con at his own offer and upon his own admis­
sion. We have already proved Universalism to be of
“bad practical tendency,” as it holds out infinite motives
to encourage the practice of wickedness! But I will now
prove the doctrine “of bad practical tendency” from
another source—from facts—stubborn fa&te)
U N I V E R S A L I S M
\
458
Pro and Con, (with all the fraternity of Universalists,)
cannot—and dare not controvert. These facts will be |
adduced from one of their own party—a strong defender i
of their faith, and one in high standing with them as an
editor, and the author of a took which is lately from the
press, and now being actively circulated by the denomi­
nation. The individual to whom 1 refer is known by
the name of Lewis C. Todd, who once renounced Uni-
versalism, after preaching the doctrine twelve years, but
has now gone back, and is acknowledged by the party,
as above stated, to be an honest man, and an able advo­
cate of the doctrine. If L. C. Todd was now opposed
to Universalism9 I should deem it puerile, in the extreme,
to quote from him; for let his testimony be ever so true,
it would still have no weight with Universalists ; but as
it is, they are bound to receive his testimony, so far as i
he statesfacts to which he was an eye and ear witness! '
Upon such matters he could not have been mistaken, as
his acquaintance, with the character of Universalists
generally, was so extensive; and hence those facts
which he states ta have seen and heard, are true,or else
L. C. Todd was a dishonest man—a black-hearted hyp­
ocrite : and if he was dishonest then, he is dishonest yet; j
but as all Universalists admit him to be an honest mau |
now,they are compelled to admit that he was an honest |
man then, and ergo, the facts he states are prim a facie
evidence in this case. No man can disprove them but I
the authoT, and there is no Way he can do it, but by ’
proving himself oneof the most base and malicious fal­
sifiers that ever lived! This, I presume, he will not un­
dertake, and it is just as presumable that none of his
brethren will undertake it for him ! Hence.his testimo­
ny, relative to the practical tendency of Universalism,
ana the character of its professors, {J^3m ust be received! I
I quote from his “defence? •
111 had seen the blessed influence of the doctrine
spread out often on paper, but I could not see them any
where else! No—God knows I am honest in this asser­
tion. I do not feel to abuse is
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 489
true that I could not for my life see any good resulting
to society from the sentiment.-----How it may be in New
England I do not know; but this I knew that it is not a
misrepresentation of their religious condition so far as I
know anything about them. I would not speak harsh­
ly of them. My affections have clung to them with al­
most the grasp of desperation. Certainly as a people
they deserve no evil at my hands. I only wish to
speak of the general effects of the doctrine. I know in-
dividuals among them, of the most amiable dispositions
and characters, that would honor any profession. But
I do not think their doctrine ever made them so. I can­
didly aver, in the fear of God, that 1 do not believe the
doctrine ever made a single soul any better than he
otherwise would have been, while it has been the means
of removing necessary restraints, and giving latitude to
thousands, whose propensities and passions needed re­
straint, whereby they have indulged in criminal pur­
suits and gone to perdition. I only fudge from what 1
know—from what I have seen, in reference to the gene­
ral effects of the doctrine. *The tree must be known
by its fruits:’—And after taking the fru its of the tree of
Universalism, into long, deliberate, and prayerful con­
sideration, so far as I have ever seen them,I am compel­
led to conclude the tree is radically defective. When I
learn of a single drunkard, or swearer, or gambler, or
debauchee, or knave, being reformed in consequence of
the Universalist doctrine, I shall think better of its in­
fluence than I do now, for it is my solemn opinion that
such an instance never occurred.---------
u All that, and much more, I told him, [Mr. Stacy.] ex­
pressing in the most pointed terms that I was dissatis­
fied and disappointed with the denomination, on account
of their indifference to piety, the profanity, gambling,
and other bad habits so common among them .—Making
a few exceptions, I still say, that I have all the evidence
that such a case admits o f that a majority of the called
Universalists, are so unfriendly to religion, that they
would do ten times more to destroy all religion. Ita& ta
460 U N t V E R S A L I S M
support any. They will support Universalism, but not
as religion, nor for religion, but for the purpose of de­
stroying religion, as it actually does to a great extent
where it prevails. M any of them have told me so!
—There are some, very few, real Universalists, who
will pay from principle—there are, besides, Atheists,
Deists, gamblers, drunkards, and most all the opposers
ofreligion, who are pleased with Universalism, and take
that name. All these will pay for it, as the surest way
to do away religion ! Had I been a sceptic and hypo­
crite, I might now have been a professor of Universal­
ism in the «full tide of successful experiment.”----- 1
have had a great opportunity to know the character,
views, and feelings of professed Universalists,—full as
good an opportunity as Mr. Skinner. There are some,
but not many Universalist preachers in the United States,
that have had a more extensive opportunity to judge of
the practical effects of the doctrine, from the conduct of
its professors, than myself. I have found worthy and
amiable persons attached to the doctrine—this is true—
but such ones would freely acknowledge that the num­
ber of such was very small “around there.” They gen­
erally thought its friends away off somewhere else were
better; but I am satisfied that their leading characteris­
tics, in any place or village, are the same in all, or near­
ly all places where they are to be found. As a general
remark, wherever I went to promulgate the doctrine,
many who stood forth as its friends were of the lower
part ofsociety. Sabbath breakers,scoffers, tiplers, swear­
ers, and gamblers would gather around me with a
warmth bordering on devotion. They found little to
please them, however, in my preaching, except the doc-
( trine; and often when I pointed out these vices in all
their blackness to them, they would be offended; say I
was bad as the orthodox; and swear they wanted Uni­
versalism, and not any of such 4
4reformation stuff? and
the like. Often have I been accosted in company, by
men, reeling under their load of strong drink, who have
held me by the hand, to hear their assurances of ap-
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 461
plause, affection, and good will; and to hear them des­
cant upon the “glorious plan of universal salvation,"
the “boundless extent of divine love," and to adduce
their reasons, “ strong as holy writ," to prove the truth
of that sentiment, and the folly of everything else, till
pale with disgust, or suffused with shame, or half suffo­
cated with their breath, I have forced myself away.------
So there is a kind of religious quackery in the land,
which affects great sympathy for the occasional evils
connected with the doctrine of future retribution, but has
no sympathy for the sufferings resulting from the vices
which that doctrine would suppress—has no tender
heart to “wither” over the dissipation, the licentious­
ness, the crimes, the murders. the blasted hopes of pa­
rents, the sighs of heart broken wives and husbands,
the anguish and misery of children beggared and or­
phaned in the appalling career of vice, the agony, and
tears^ and shame which mark thefootsteps of sin which
every where increase and spread with the increase and
spread of Universalism and infidelity. I say Univer-
salism and infidelity, because one is the general precur­
sor of the other.
“Let these men boast of their charity; I know the
doctrine they profess requires the exercise of charity—
so does Christianity in all its forms. But I have read
t k k p e r i o d i c a l Un v e r s a l i s t p a p e r s for two years,
and the s a r c a s m and m a l i g n i t y running through
these papers against everything but their own interests,
had a powerful tendency in opening my eyes, and con­
vincing me that there was l i t t l e o r n o r e l i g i o n
a m o n g t h e m .— In the winter before the renunciation,
L. Davis, Esq., of Carroll, returned from Cincinnati, au­
thorized to engage me to go there. He held out the most
encouraging prospects in a pecuniary point of view, and
urged me to go. And I will here remark that he is
well known as a Universalist of the conscientious kind.
And h e a d m i t t e d t o m e t h a t U n i v e r s a l i s t s g e n ­
e r a l l y w e r e n o t p i o u s , and that he had, for years,
M OURNED OVER T itE COURSE T H E Y Y U M W EH Y E
no*
408 U N I V E R S A L ISM
t i o n t o religion.------Mr. Stacy cannot deny that ever
since he has been in the western country, for some two
or three years, whenever I have had an opportunity, I
have been complaining of the swearing, drinking,
gambling, and other vicious habits among Universal-
ists, and the entire want of anything like a religious
course among them. Mr. Stacy too, always used to
admit that things were so; and often expressed re­
gret that it was so, but hoped that Universalists would
some day take a different course. Almost a year before
the renunciation I was at Warren, (Pa.,) preached in the
morning and evening, and Mr. Sweet in the afternoon.
Mr. Sweet was a Universalist preacher from Ohio, who
had come there that day with Mr. Stacy.—We there, in
company with others, were talking, that day, on the
character and religious course of Universalists generally.
Mr. Sweet said he was generally and extensively ac­
quainted with Universalists in Ohio,—that there was
V E R Y L IT T L E T H E A PPEA R A N CE OP R E L IG IO N OR PIE­
T Y a m o n g t h e m ,—that societies almost without number
had been formed, but the members seemed to take do
interest in the cause, and generally, within two or three
years after their formation, some would join the ortho­
dox, but most would avow Deism, and they would cease
to be, as societies. He represented them to be in a very
dead, low, and miserable condition, as it respects reli­
gion; and he considered this to be the general condition
of Universalists. Mr. Stacy was by, and did not deny
that it was so, but said that we must try to bring about
a better state of things. Others were present to hear
some of the conversation. A person present at that time
asked me why it was so, that Universalists would take
such a course as they did; and I answered, 1The reason
is, that the principal part of Universalists are Deists in
realitythe person replied: 41 believe in my soul they
are.’ This was in the presence of Mr. Stacy, and he
smiled, which I considered his assent that it was true.
I told Mr. Sweet that his description of Universalists
would apply generally \ bad been ac-
I
}
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 46S
quainted with them; and he toldme he did notcare about
going among them if that were the case.—And the ‘un­
obtrusive practical virtue of Universalists’ is, generally,
Sabbath-breaking, profanity, intemperance, contempt of
all the appearances and means of piety, horrid fears of
priestcraft, but no fears about any other craft; gamb­
ling, LAUGHING, SCOFFING and SWEARING ABOUT
PRATING, PREACHING, RELIGIOUS MEETINGS, and RE­
LIGIOUS people, finding contradictions in the bible, and
other great difficulties, etc., etc., etc.-----The author
saw these things till his heart sickened. He was read­
ing many Universalist periodicals, and became fully sat­
isfied from the drift and general course of them, that
their secret object appeared to be, and their actual effect
was, to raise doubts in the minds of their readers, on
one religious subject after another, till they should
believe in none; and by inuendoes, and sarcastic re­
flections upon the errors of Christians, to spread abroad
a deep ana universal prejudice against a gospel minis­
t r y , the BtBLE, and all religion. He became satis­
fied beyond a single doubt that all this was true.
He conversed also with many,professors of Universal-
ism at different times, and found most all o f them to
view the subject in the same light. Most all of them
to be enemies to Christianity9and consider the whole
engine of Universalism now in the United Stages, to be
a shrewd and well concertedschemeto bring together the
elements and efforts of unbelief, to overthrow in the end,
the Christian religion. His candid opinion is, and has
long been, that ninety-nine out of a hundred who pro­
fess publicly to be LJniversalists, are unbelievers in di­
vine revelation. I say this in the fear of God, as the re­
sult of all I know of them. That the nature of their doc­
trine is such that most of them [the preachers} as weB
as their hearers, become so much tinctured with scepti­
cism, that their teachings lead to the same end that open
infidelity would. That there are some honest and sin*
cere both among teachers and people. I have no doubt
There are a few learned, gifted,andt&WXj&TD&a
464 U N I V B R S A L 1 S M
1
the preachers, who would be useful in a good cause; but j
many of them are illiterate, and only qualified for levity, <
scurrility,,and miserable satire. Winchester and Murray,
I think, werepious, but their system was no soonerabroad
than infidels, who had been foiled in their recent open
attacks on religion, discovered in Universalism a disguise
for their doctrines, and spread it forth with zeal, fully
satisfied that it would answer their purpose just as well.
Hence the numerous conversions of infidels to Univer­
salismo which signifies nothing more than the shifting
of an unpopular name for one more plausible. Infidels
and loose wicked men have cherished the doctrine
enough to make it suspicious, and offensive to the Christ­
ian, were there no other objection to it----- The author
of this work once preached Universalism in Ripley,
Chautauque co., (N. Y.,) where he found among his
hearers a Universalist drunkard—he had been a.preach­
er ! But he was a constant attendant on the preaching.
He extolled it—he praised the glorious sentiment, till
we preached directly against drunkenness, and then he
fled—we have never seen him since. His name was
Winslow. He liked the doctrine; but to hear a Univer­
salist preacher condemn drunkenness so pointedly, was
more than he could bear. So it is with the wicked
generally; they love the doctrine, and love their sins
noth at once. How often do we hear men and boys
talking of the Unbounded love of God,9with a profane
oath in almost every sentence! The most abandoned
swearers, and most abominable characters through the
States, are frequently found advocating, amidst shocking
oaths and drunken revelry, the 1liberal sentiment!’ We
should be sorry to state such things if we thought it pos­
sible TOBE MISTAKEN. BuT WE CANNOT BE, SHUN­
LESS OUR VERY SENSES HAVE DECEIVED
US.”=Ca [Pages 14, 16, 17, 34, 38, 40, 44, 45, 51, 55,
63, 64, 80, 81, 84, 89, 97, 98,123,124.]
So much, reader, for the w
practical tendency5
9of Uni­
versalism, and the influence it has upon the characters
o f "NINKTY-NINB O
U
T of ATATOBVcaw1^\Av^\<£es&sts!
i
A G A I N S T I T S E L F .
It is true the author of this testimony, since going back
to the Univetealists, has published to the world that he
was affected with a mental derangement when he pub­
lished his book! ~But how does he know but that he is
deranged now? for if his senses deceived him then,
he is no better off now, and has no stronger evidence to
prove that he is now in his right mind! It is my
emn opinion, that if ever the man was crazy, it was at
the time (“after being clean escaped from them that live
in error”) when he went back and had his name enrolled
among a brotherhood of “Infidels,” “Atheists,” “gamb­
lers,” “drunkards,” “scoffers at religion,” “ profane
swearers,” “sabbath breakers,” “debauchees,” which he
knew to be such from his own “senses,” the best evi­
dence in the world, and the only testimony by which
he now knows he has an existence! The reader can
judge for himself, from the foregoing extracts, whether
he writes as if under the influence of insanity.
Now friend George, I bid you farewell;—I believe
you to be an honest man, but wofully deceived; and
hence I impute your contradictions, and incoherent sui­
cidal speculation, not to any lack on your part, either
morally or intellectually, but to the sheer deficiency, and
the radical rottenness of the system you were endeavor­
ing to defend! I have nofeelings towards you butthose
of kindness and friendship, and should I ever see your
face, you will, I trust, find me what I here profess to be,
your iriend and well wisher. May we all desire, and
seek after the truth, that it may make us free indeed !
U N I V E R S A L I S A I
CONCLUSION.
A W O R D T O U N I V E R S A L I S T P R E A C H E R S .
Gentlemen: Permit me, in the plenitude of yourchar- I
ity, to address you one word, in the conclusion of this i
work, relative to the subject therein discussed, and the '
position which you occupy to the public, as preachersof !
universal salvation. If you have read the foregoing pa­
ges, as you doubtless have, and are still inclined to be­
lieve in Universalism, you nevertheless, I think, will not
hesitate to admit that it is not altogether and absolutely
certain that all will be saved, and that something at
least, can be presented against your doctrine, and in fa­
vor of the opposite theory. I do not look for this ac- i
knowledgement to be made to me; but to your own con- \
sciences you are compelled, methinks, to make this ad­
mission. Having read the ten preceding chapters, can
you, in the presence of an all-seeing God, lay your hand
upon your heart, and say that Universalism is not at
least doubtful, and that there is not at least a probabili­
ty (weighing all the evidence in the case) that a partof
mankind will be eternally lost? If you do admit the
bible to be in realitya revelation from God, and to bean
umpire in this question,permit me to ask again: Would
you be willing, at this time, to risk your life, or even
your earthly fortune, upon the certainty of Universalism
being true, and let omniscience decide the question to­
morrow ? What say you? I make this solemn appeal
to your honesty, and you will undoubtedly, if that be
one of your attributes, answer this question in the nega­
tive. Well then, if Universalism be not so absolutely
certain, that you would be willing to risk your present
life upon its verity, how then, in the name of reason and
consistency, dare you venture upon it your eternal all,
which bears no mote n
X
\£,forces than
the smallest conce\vab\o specks n
throughout the bo\vn&\ess oVWawwa&.'t
Suppose we grant you,for tVe
A G A I N S T I T S E L F ,
Universalism is calculated to give more present enjoy­
ment than the opposite faith; still consistency and pro
priety most emphatically forbid your preaching the doc­
trine for any earthlyconsideration whatever, unlessyou
have testimony most positive and unequivocal in favoi
of universal salvation. In order that your testimony be
positive, it must be such as excludes all possibility ol
doubt, and such as precludes all necessity for inference,
or if you must infer, let it be the only possible in ference
that can be drawn! With this definition ofpositive tes­
timony, which I think you will not hesitate in admit­
ting. you must see that you have nothing you can claim
as positive testimony, in favor of your doctrine.—Take,
for example, 1 Tim. 2. 4, “God will have all men tobe
saved.” This, as you will admit, is as near positive
testimony as anything you have in the bib!e. But so
far from its being positive, it is no testimony &
t all, as
you will see by referring back to the article upon that
text, Chap. 1, page 116. Your argument, in this case,
is based upon no less thanfour inferences. 1. You tn-
fer that this language has reference to eternity and not
to time. 2. That God’s “will” is always and in every
case accomplished. 3. That “saved” here signifies de­
liverance from sin; and 4. That “allm en” here embra­
ces the entire posterity of Adam! This is but a fair
sample of your inferences upon every proof-text in the
bible—whilst a majority of all those inferences can be
refuted by positive testimony to the contrary, and the
remainder can be nullified and set aside by just as plau­
sible inferences in opposition to yours. Where, then,
permit me to ask, is your positive testimony ?
In order farther, that your testimony from the bible
be positive, it must agree with the following sources of
evidence. 1. It must be that construction which makes
best sense of the text itself. 2. That construction must
agree with the context, and with the circumstances of
the case. 3. It must agree with a\\
and 4. It m ust harmonize with the Vsosst «sh.
*cope o f the bible upon th a t suhyj&VA
4
468 U N I V E R 8 A L I S M
should fail in either of these particulars, it most inevita­
bly fails of positive testimony. Prom this argument also, j
you must discover, methinks, that your doctrine, when
weighed in the scripture balance will be found wanting, I
as regards positive evidence! There may be a possi­
bility of a doctrine being true, but all the possibilities in
the world, in favor of a doctrine, would not amount to
positive testimony. Again: there may be even a prob­
ability in favor of the truth of a doctrine, but this, like­
wise, falls immensely short of positive proof. Suppose
we grant you, for the sake of coming at the point, that
your doctrine has a possibility, or even a probability in
its favor; still the fact of its not being positive, proves
that there is at least a probability against it; and this,
under a most solemn responsibility, forbids your preach­
ing the doctrine; as a probability against it will weigh |
as much more than one in its favor, as the infinite con­
cerns of eternity are superior to those of time. But sup­
pose the two doctrines on an equal footing, as regards
probabilities in favorofeach, still, gentlemen, you would
act far more wisely and consistently in running the risk
of loosing the small pittance ofpresent enjoyment, which
your doctrine is calculated to yield over and above the
other, (admitting such to be the fact,) which can be re­
alized but a few years at most, rather than run the risk
of losing the sublimated joys of an endless life—the im­
perishable and unsearchable riches of eternity! If there
were but a single probability against your doctrine,
whilst you had ten thousand in its favor, still this bears
no comparison with the incomprehensible difference be­
tween this rivulet of time, and the shoreless ocean of
eternity! Think, then, of the untold and numberless
myriads of ages, of deathless felicity, which many, by
the instrumentality of your doctrine, may lose, if there
were but one probability in a million against it. This,
o f itself] is a sufficient reason wh^^onahouldcease pro­
mulgating it; but how inucYy greater are
tions to renounce that unsafe an& Aan%wso&
when, as your candor m«s\. consgeX
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 409
is not a single text in the bible in its support, whilst
there are scores of passages which most pointedly teach
the opposite doctrine! Will yourconsciences, then, per­
mit you to continue propagating a theory which is cal­
culated, as you admit, to better the condition of no man
in the future world, when at the same time you hazard
the loss of an eternity of bliss?
But matters stand vastly different with us. We are
perfectly safe, yourselves being judges, as regards the
future life, if we have but. a single probability in favor
of our theory, whilst there are five hundred against it;
or even if the doctrine should prove utterly false. We
can lose nothing, yourselves admit, by rejecting Univer-
salism, except a paltry pittance of present enjoyment,
which, if so, will be no less in the outcome; for if your
doctrine prove true, we shall be the happier when we
come to find out our mistake! Though in this world
we sometimes “heave the pensive sigh,” when looking
over the wickedness of men, and thinking, as we sup­
pose, of the awful destiny that awaits them, yet we shall
be doubly paid for all such ignorant fears, in the event
of universal salvation, for we shall all be happily disap­
pointed, and the wonderful contrast between what we
supposed, and what will really exist, will tend to aug­
ment our future and eternal bliss; and hepce, we can
lose nothing either in time or in eternity, in believing
and preaching the falsehood of orthodoxy as long as we
live, providing only, we should be disappointed in the
end, and your doctrine should prove true!
Will you not, then, choose the safe side of this momen­
tous question? If you were going to take a voyage
across the ocean, would you embark in that large vessel
which is both rotten and leaky, and will stand three
chances out of four of going to the bottom before it
reaches the opposite coast; or would you prefer a berth
in that smaller one, which, although not so roomy and
commodious in.some respects, is
sound and safe, and will convey yon mosV
yourpoint ofdestination1 Yon won\A Y*
470 U N I V E R S A L I S M
regard your own safety, rather than make the trip in
that large ship Universalism , and be furnished with
the most extravagant accommodations,) prefer taking
even a deck passage on that little brig Orthodoxy, u
you should therebyevenbe exposed to the piercing wind,
and an occasional drenching from the surging billows!
Why not, gentlemen, manifest the same amount of cau­
tiousness and consistency with reference, to the incon­
ceivably more important concerns of eternity? Why not
prefer a certainty to an uncertainty? If you have not
positive testimony in favor of your system, which you
must admit you have not;—why then preach the doc­
trine? What blind infatuation must influence that man
who is willing to risk his immortal inheritance upon a
game at chance, when the probabilities are decidedly
against him—a chance, upon which he would not ven­
ture to hazard one hundred dollars!
Dear sirs, permit me to speak to you freely:—let not
“the pride of life,” I beseech you, or “the God of this
world” blind your eyes to your highest—most exalted
interests. Whoever would not be on the safe side of a
doubtful question, especially one which involves as much
as the one now under consideration, must be most self-
willed and presumptuous, having shut his eyes to the
light of self-interest, and closed his ears against the voice
of reason!
Permit me, then, in the conclusion of this short, but
friendly address, to remark, that as you admit us to be
perfectly safe in our theory, as regards the future life;
and if we do experience some trials and sorrows, as the
result of our orthodox heresy in this world, still your
doctrine informs us that this shall all be overruled for
our good hereafter, and will work out for us a far more
exceeding and eternal weight of glory;—hence you have
no motive which you can hold out, to induce us toleave
orthodoxy and embrace Universalism, let it be ever so
true, and therefore you need not make the attempt.
We would have you know that we are perfectly un-
convertible to that system, which* if true, gives us to
A G A I N S T I T S E L F . 471
understand that although we do not enjoy as much hap­
piness without it here, yet we shall possess the more in
the future world on that account, and that" thereby our
happiness will be enhanced fo r e t e r n i t y Hence, we
have no reason in the world for becoming converts to
your doctrine, whilst on the contrary, from the uncer-
tainty of your theory, and the safety of ours, you have
every reason, both in this world and in that which is to
come, for renouncing Universalism and becoming con­
verts to the orthodox faith! I think, gentlemen, houestly
and candidly, you had better give it up. You have had
rather a hard tussel for it so far, and you have saved no
one by your effort. Just, then, please be consistent for
once, and throw away that thing of Universalism; for
why waste paper and puff out your breath of life in de-
^ fending a cause so perfectly barren and unfruitful, as is
the one in which you are now engaged ? I subscribe my­
self most truly and benevolently, your friend, A. H.
T O T H E R E A D E R .
Reader: You are now through the book, and have
doubtless detected many imperfections, both in style and
language: but a few words of explanation will perhaps
apologize for such, and all other defects which you may*
have discovered in the foregoing pages:
Six months only have elapsed since the author first
commenced writing this work, during which time his
attention has been engrossed by many cares and per­
plexities, which are not very great facilities in the pro­
secution of a work of this character. Being engaged in
a partnership manufacturing establishment, the concerns
ofwhich must necessarily demand a share of his thoughts,
and the additional concern of providing for the contin­
gent necessities and accommodations o\ a
o f boarders, all served as impedimenta \n
tying out this work as perfectly a s It
472 U N I V E R S A L I S M
done, perhaps, under more favorable circumstances.—
The ministerial duties of the author, likewise, in atten­
ding to his appointments, sometimes at the distance of
thirty or forty miles from home—during the same peri­
od receiving, and replying to, about one hundred and
fifty letters—and the additional loss of two days in each
week, in riding to St. Clairsville, (and back,) in orderto
“correct proof,” have levied a heavy tax upon his time,
leaving but little over three months for the writing of
the whole work.
The book was commenced being printed when but a
few pages of the manuscript were written, and frequent­
ly the author found himself under the necessity oi writ­
ing the greater part of the night, in order to supply the
printers with copy. We have had a pretty tight race
for it, but fortunately I have come out a little ahead!
These facts are stated, courteous reader, not with the
view of begging mercy at the hands of Universalist prea­
chers and editors, as far, at least, as argument is con­
cerned, for in such matters the author neither gives nor
asks quarter:—but he supposes that these considera­
tions, in connection with his own age and inexperience,
(this being hisfirst book,) will serve as an apology for all
literary and scientific aberrations, from which he cannot
possess the vanity to suppose his work entirely exempt.
The author does not design to leave the impression
that he claims originality for off the arguments herein
presented; yet he believes that the main body of the
work is new, and has never before been presented tothe
{mblic. This consideration has induced him to send it
orth as bread cast upon the waters, hoping that it may
Srove instrumental, in the hands of an overruling provi-
ence, of turning many from the error of their ways, to
which end, may God grant it abundant success.
TH E AUTHOR.
St. Clairsville, June 15, 1846
k
A TABLE GF REFERENCES.
chap.
Oencai*«
verse. page.
1 31 327
2 16,17 215
3 14 256
6 6,7 400
a 13 413
u 17 62
a 19,20 61
7 21 36
8 22 184
9 11 184,413
15 13-16 8
18 12 258
18 20 400
22 18 5,387
7
E x W u .
1 253
12 25 9
17 9 356
23 14 400
22 104
28 35 181
34 6,7 265
9
Leritfcaa
22,23 182
11 46 127
14
Nuabcn.
28-35 10
23 10 234,314
27 16 36
DeateroBMiy.
5 1 83
8 5 361
18 64 51
20 20 111
21 18-21 319
28 — 189
30 19 356
82 19 44
7
M m .
25 83
3 * 3 7 i m w
8 27 83
11 33 112
23 127,308
5 44
23 287
4 296,419
3,5-9 296
38 262,267
i
4 7 4 A TABLE OF REFERENCES.
chap.
22
25
verse.
11
8
2 5 , 10,11
27 11
3 2
35
40
45
17
10
2
7
45 22-24
page.
20
24
25
44
2 9 9
119
2 6 3
323
25
46
53
55 7
55 10,11
57 16
57 20,21
61
63
65
10 2 8 ,4 0 3
4-11 172,280
7 20
30
31
32
2 6 4
104
357
4 52
3
3
3
8
16
16 53-63
18
18
18
20
33
chap. verse. page.
33 13-15 11
33 16 225
37 12,13 227
D an iel.
4 35 28
5 19 52
7 10,14 16
12 2,3 94,2 1 9
7 221
13 2 2 2
H osea.
13 14 190
J o el.
2 6 24
2 6 187
30,31 217
Auio«.
3 6 326
Jonah.
3 3,10 ‘ 6,327
5 125
1911cah.
6 7 366
lla b a k k u k .
3 14 2 9 6
Zachartnh.
9 9 146
10 38
M alachl
1 10 34
2 10 35
4 6 387
M atth ew .
1 21 38
3 7 21
12 418
4 3 253
4,11 2 5 6
24 255
5 3,11 305
12,16 6 9,238
17,18 40,184
SO
44,45
9
10
1
1
12
13
15
16
12
15
19,20
24
12
13
21
28
29
32
6
8
22
23
28
32
21,22
23
28
29
13
24
26
31,32
36
41,42
50
17
VI
\oo\
4^.\S
34
38
40
41
13
18
23
26
27
28
Y
Y
VI
page.
269
52
241
37,254
196
311
56
228
254
256
142
357
60
142
197
110
185
268
29
309
65
252
254
211
177
188
37,56
22
203
37
49
48
424
88
253
310
5 0 ,1 2 4
144
64
475
r
r
A TABLE OF REFERENCE8.
4»p. verae. jage-
2 6 318
21 5 143
2 2 3 0 45
2 3 29 2 2 8
33 195
37 29
2 4 3 4 4 5
14 143
2 2,27 136
2 9 ,3 0 137
31 139
3 4 140
35 184
3 8 ,3 9 156
41 219
50 2 18
2 5 31 15,153
32 155
3 4 387
4 1 ,4 6 2 65,163
2 6 28 126
27 5 1,53 2 19,227
2 8 18 3 9,62
J91xuh
3 29 215
5 4 ,12,13 254
9 2 56
6 12 109
8 25 65
38 144
9 1 144
10 14 71
18 347
11 32 60
12 37 448
13 27 139,160
14 28 56
15 46 228
16 9 2 5 6
16 40,2161
Kaike.
1 76,77 3 9
■2— _____1
___ __ 1.27/
chap.
6
7
9
10
11
12
13
14
16
19
20
21
22
24
1
10,11
24
14,15
4 1 ,4 2
25
27,31
5 6
pa*e. chap.
50
311
2*29
269
3 1 0
145
196
17,18 25 4 ,2 5 8
2 6 134
30-35 204
4 269
14,15 159
2 8 305
4,5 198
32 241
3 2 68
16 254
23 310
34,35 57 ,3 2 6
14 2 3,240
22,23 203
10 54
34-36 45,187
2 3,24 138
27,28 159
31 154
35 155
36 46
31 2 5 6
32 67
4 2 29
39 152,258
JTohn.
7
8
9
11
12
13
14
11
29
5
17
39
52
36
55
18 187,216
15
16
17
19
35 3 8 \
3 6
3 9
8 3 \ 4 \
vene.
2 4 3 2 7
4 2 5 3
2 2 171
2 3 109
2 4 2 2 8
2 5 2 2 9
2 8 ,2 9 2 2 2
3 9 ,4 0 2 9 ,7 3
3 7 58
39 5 6
4 0 5 7
4 4 59
7 0 2 5 3
39 2 3 6
21 3 1 4
23 2 1 3
2 4 3 6 5
31 116
4 2 ,4 4 37
31 5 7
3 9 56,171
2 3 ,2 4 231
38 2 2 8
25 2 1 3
2 6 3 02
31 172
3 2 58
4 2 111
48 58,231
2 6 ,2 7 2 5 5
3 169
6 2 4 9
51-17 97
6 4 1 8
2 6 3 5 0
18 60
2 38,61
4 4 \
V i s a
Vo
VS »
4
\
«re A TABLE OF REFERENCES.
r
A TABLE OF REFERENCES. 477
▼
en
e.
25,26 H e eh?
▼MM;
4 84.W
chap. ▼MM.
14 m
28 112 16 104 16,17 113
34 63 5 2 248 20 113
35 159,250 4 72 21 114
39 36 17 259 22 244
42 95 19,21 . 327 23 1151,129
51 70,116 22,23 326 27 229
52 157 24 14,96 28 107
53,54 95 6 8 76 2 13 364
19 22 42
1 **9,11 106
14 41,142
9 C o rla U lu u . 3 1,2 239
2 6,7 275 21 214 4 161
4 4 252 22,23 115 13 275
17 236 2 2 253 1 T h w lo a ia — .
5,6,8,9
10
236
99,175
10
12
110
351
1
2
10
14,16
21
165
11 306,392 14 142 4 3,6 56
15 109 15 165 13 101
18,19 115,323 16 114 14,15 102
20 114 3 9 113 16 1521,157
6 1 72 17 229 18 162
15!253,254 4 19 284 5 2,3 155
17,18 37 22 259 17,18 56
7 1 366 32 281 «1 5
10 122 5 5 304 23 366
10 5,6 73 23 87
11 8 89 24 88 1 5 237,303
14 259 30 39 7,9 1631,387
12 2,3 235 6 12 253 10 161
7 256 Pfclllppia»*.
i * i 1 1 1 2 1 140,160
13
1
2
1 191
»■ H a lt— »
8 115
11 257
2
20,24
28
9,11
12 1
236
200
108
111,303 3
2
3
12
2
150
151
296
97
21 219,277 14,15 37,141 10 43
3 7,9
■ 8
10
13
14,96
13
62
277,281
3 8,10
11
14
18,19
100
47
306
95,303
t T n o tfty .
2 3,4
5,6
8
A K
116
119
117
fia
19,24
26
166
14,36
20
21.
160
101,111 *
V
2.
ov
v r .
27
OQ
1U7
14j 1 13 15&\
\
4 7 8 A TABLE OF REFERENCES,
chap
6
9,10
page.
120
7 212
9 259
12 73,248
17 212
19 243
9 Timothy.
2 5 314
10
. 12
13
18
22
4
6
12
13
1
3
3
243
247
336
66
259
296
259
159
40
158
259
6,8 163,240
10 213
16
18
T itu s.
16
11
12
13
14
10,12
13
2
3
5
9
10,15
13
1
3
12,13
19
1
10,11
119
237
63
122
213
153
106
190
214
297
310
214
123
2 14
235
250
378
251
10'
2 4 8 \
iap. verse. pace. chap. * verse. page.
14 2 50 14 132
15 2G0 16 35
5 8 2 47 J a m e s .
9 85,303 1 12 306
6 1,3 194 14 260
8 418 15 259
13.18 336 17 326
7 16 100 2 5 212
25 112 10 42
28 25 13 21
8 9 44 3 16 366
11 63 4 3 259
12 124 5 366
9 6,7 181 6 314
22 249 7 252
26 166 10 313 !
27,28 179 5 5 296
10 26 116 8 148
27 177 1 P e te r.
28 20 1 3,5 # 245
31 2 0 0 12 245
34,35 239 13 162
37 148 16 372
38 35 2 0 403
11 5 70 2 2,23 234
6 34 2 5,9 ,1 0 235
13 365 6 187
24 357 11 259
25 2 9 6 15 56
36,37 2 96 17 200
12 1,2 247 2 2 123
5 >362 2 4 281
9 315 25 235
11 362 3 18 281
14 241 4 5 173
15 7 2 7 150
16 243 13 * 162
17 244 17 173
28 2 0 0 18 310
2 3 <
5A °\ 'a X V63
1 3
i
5 S>,Yo\ 'b
3
TtS
479
/
A TABLE OF REFERENCES.
chap. verse. page. chap. verse. page. chap. verse. page
9 Peter. 15 351 12,13 217
1 9 235 16 347 15,17 217
10,11 234 17 212 7 9 189
16,18 145 18 280 14 237
2 4 178 5 12 229 15,17 190
6 18 16 118 9 11 252
7,9 185 19 126 10 6 231
12 128 Jude. 7 232
13 296 1 5 116 11 15 232
3 4 151 6 178 12 7 258
5,6 413 7 18 9,10 252
7 183 8 387 13 13 254
8 150 9 258 14 10 21
10 165 13 95 13 103
13 166 14 153 19 19,20 252
14 315 15 156 20 1,2 r 257
%John. 18 259 6 103
1 9 365 19 97 7 259
2 2 125 21 351 10 254
3,4 63 Revelations 12,14 189
16 326 1 3 316 15 191
17 * 56 4 89 21 3,4 130
18 246 7111,152 5 184
3 2 161 2 1 89 7 37
3 364 7 235 8 131
4 70 10 254 24,27 131
7 71 11 131 22 7 302
8 253 3 * 12 131 11 94
10 254 21 246 12 148
4 6 631 5 12 218 14 242
8 3471 13 127 17 60
14 #3l 6 10 192 19 129
INDEX TO CHAPTERS.
Page.
C h a p. 1. Proof-texts of Universalisai examined, 5-134
Chap. 2. Coming of the Lord, 135-170.
Chap. 3. The general judgment, 171-233.
Chap. 4. Twenty-five distinct arguments in
proof of the conditionality of eternal life, 234-251.
Chap. 5. Personality of the Devil, 252-261.
Chap. 6. Forgiveness of Sins, 262^282.
Chap. 7. Compunctions of Conscience, 283-30i.
Chap. 8. Testimony of the 100 witnesses, 302-316.
Chap. 9. A debate on the perfections and at- \
tributes gf Deity, 317-423.
Chap. 10. A brief review of the Pro and Con, 424-465.
Conclusion, 466-471.
OirThe Author having removed his residence will be
hereafter addressed at St. Clairsville, Ohio.Içfl
He would also inform the public that he has on
hand a laree quantity of his discourse on 4
4Christian
Baptism, ” first published October last, at Findlay, Ohio.
The price of this work, per single copy, is 12* cents.
It contains matter equal in amount to 50 pages of U—
A—I—! Any persons wishing to obtain a quantity for
distribution, shall have sixteen copies for one dollar!
OirAll communications, relative to the book business,
should be post paidj which will insure them prompt at*
tentioo._ço
