{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1846__jennings___ship_of_glass.pdf","mytitle":"Ship Of Glass","mylang":"de"}
THE
SHIP OF GLASS;
O
R,
T H E M Y S T E R I O U S I S L A N D .
A ROMANCE,
I N T H R E E V O L U M E S .
BY
HARGRAVE JENNINGS.
AUTHOR O f “ I f f MARIHB MEMORANDUM BOOK,” &C.
"‘ There was a Shit,’quoth he.”
Coleridge’s Ancient Mariner.
VOL. L
L O N D O N :
THOMAS CAUTL1Y NEWBY, PUBLISHE
72, MORTIMER S t ,CAVENDISH Sq.
1846
IQS' L.
l€
If a bulky book be an evil, a long preface may be
regarded as a still greater nuisance. It is like a
long tiresome bow from a master of the ceremonies
when he is keeping you froma view of the “ divine
partner'’ he is assiduously bused in introducing.
Sill the Author could not direst himself of the
idea that a pretending work in Three Volumes re­
quires a word or two. lest it should he abruptly
thrust into the reader’s hands.
These volumes contain Two Talas of very opposite
characteristics■
the one being a direct Romance;
the other a sort of Novel, where the writer speaks
more
“ Like a men of thi* world."
But of the two tales, the leading one, though by no
mama the longest, the writer considers may be
safely depended on asthe principal
u PREFACE.
The Sure or B u m Is an attempt to retire some
of the more sober attractions of the old romance.
In this dry age of utilitarianism, when everything
seema about rewiring itself into sums and machines
—to figures and fact—it may not be amiss to en­
deavour to qualify some of this correct rigidity by
giving the reins to fancy. It may be feared whether
we are not becoming too mechanical; and, if relax­
ing, indulging ourselves by laughing too freely at
everything which bears the shape of sentiment.
We have so many books of fret—travel, science,
biography, and reality of all kinds—that a good
wholesale fabrication may be welcomed as relief. In
such spirit is the Snip or Glabb offered.
The Author believes the Rye House Plot was
introduced is a work of fiction published some
year or two since. In the instance of Atcbkkley
then Is no imitation, for the book was planned in
a much more compendious form, and the two first
chapters written (afterwards laid aside) so far back
as tire year 1836.
London, Augtul, 1846.
THE SHIP OF GLASS
CHAPTER I.
WHEREIN A GREAT DEAL IS SAID, THOUGH THE
READER SCARCELY GOES HIS FIRST STAGE.
“ But whit’s this to the purpose 1 you will say.
Gent reader, nothing; a mere speculation,
For which my sole excuse is—’tis my way,
Sometimes with and sometimes without occasion.
I write what’s uppermost, without delay;
This narrative is not meant for narration.
But a mere airy and fantastic basis,
To build up common things with common places.
Yon know, or don’t know, that great Bacon sailh.
‘Fling np a straw, ’twill show which way the
wind blows /
And such a straw, home on by human breath.
Is poesy, according as the mind glows;
A paper kite that flies ’twixt life and death,
A shadow which the onward soul behind throws :
And mine’s abubble, not blown np for praise,
But just to play with, as an infant plays.”
Byron.
That our good-natured reader may be in no
doubt as to the locale or particular place of
VOL. L B
2 THE SHIP OP OLASS.
our atory, we will at once define it as being
the coast of Spain in the modern province of
Murcia, and somewhere between the boundary
ofthat district and the old Moorish kingdom of
Grenada, andCapePalos on the Mediterranean.
For our time we must go back to a remote
period. The settling of it in our own minds
may be of certain difficulty, since if we were
to carry it past the dark ages, and into those
still darker, a warning fear might steal u p *
us that our inch of candle would be insufficient.
That we should need the lantern of more anti­
quarian lore and more historical precision than
we may boast orhave industry and perseverance
competent to master.
In this respectable and well-conducted dread,
and with this doubtful diffidence, we own to a
laudable disposition to grope about a little
with our stiok, as we have noticed a blind man
do when arrived at a crossing and distrustful of
the self-possession of Tray, or Trotter, or in
whatcver designation the canine creature may
delight, which serves to guide his master’s
THE SHI? OF GLASS. 3
trembling steps. With this inclination to
pause, we say we offer our peruser the best
guarantee, let alone our own eharp-sigbted-
nne and fidelity, that he shall not be carried
on into the dark ages without, at all events,
knowing where he is going. He shall have
the option of providing himself with a better
guide, more abundantly furnished with artifi-
rial illumination, even perhaps to a real bull’
s
eye or a double lens.
Nobody shall suppose, if we can do aught
to Under it, that we have an ungenerous design
to take our reader’s hand, offered in all confi­
dence, while he, in his simplicity and open-
hearted trust, shots his eyes and resigns him-
aetf to our guidance, aud lead him into places,
and forward into time where be cannot be
sere of his feet. It shall not be charged upon
us that we seduce him into regions that he
knows so little of, as to be in danger of stum­
bling from ignorance of tike ground on wbioh
b 3
4 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
he tread?, or want of knowledge of “ the time
of day.” If we see anything particularly
green, it shall be on the ground, and not
in the optics of our companion. We will
not introduce him into the dimness of by­
gone ages without at all events supplying him
with the tinder-box to strike a light.
He shall, if he pleases, nay, we will urge it
upon him, take care to indue his best double-
milled spectacles, or in other words, and sober
and untecbnical English, his superfine ground
Brazil pebbles, in which, sooth to say, he shall
see the sun shine at noon-day if he looks in the
right place for him.
No, we abjure, and detest, and abnegate,
and put behind us; and entirely and utterly
put out of sight, put up, shut up, and bag out
of the way, any unfair design to practise on
the reader’s innocence and curiosity. We will
not build up towers where no towers stand ;
raise towns where there are not even stones;
and supply a fine race of inhabitants, and a
THE SHIP OP OL. 5
pattern peasantry, and an unexceptionable
lord, and spick and spaq satin heroine, or
white muslin maiden, all in the turning
of a band. Not should this be done,
even had we those wonderful powers of
creation, and that rapid resource and happy
mode of throwing stones wherewith Deucalion
and bis wife Pyrrha re-peopled the world
after the deluge, saving an incalculable amount
of time and trouble, and all effected as *
*di­
rected by the oracle.”
It was, then, at a time of which, unfortu­
nately, there comes down to ns no record, or
such a tattered one as we, being very parti­
cular and most fastidious as to completeness,
could not piece together, that our story opens.
Most happy should we have felt ourselves if
we could have succeeded in fixing our date
within the Christian chronology with that pre­
cision which should have placed our narrative
beyond question. We have, however, not
been bo fortunate.
A certain trembling beset us when we
« THE SHIP OF GLASS*
found we were rapidly losing sight of that
consistent time when church-spires were in
fashion, and people wore stockings. For this
latter peculiarity we are forced to confess we
have always retained predilection, though
we are free to allow that what has been
gained in comfort and propriety has been sa­
crificed in personal picturesqueness. Conld
wo have persuaded ourselves that the events
of our story occurred in those comfortable
days when people lived indoors, and such
things bad disappearedfrom the face ofthe earth
asheroesand finecurlybeadsandotbernuisances,
and wild-boars with awful tusks, and boar-
spears as long as lamp-posts, and tiger-skin
jackets, such as we see see in old pictures,
infinitely happier as well as more cosily-hearted
should we have felt ourselves. But as our rigor­
ous Fate with her “ nose as sharp as a pen,”
and her shining green spectacles and skinny
arms, and her long scissars gronnd up sharpest
and thirstiest upon the swiftest grindstone, for-
THB SHIP OF GLASS. 7
bade such a hope, all that remains to us is
submitting with a good grace.
We will now, if the reader pleases, proceed
at once to the first round bold sweep of the
outline of our story.
At a very remote period of Spanish history,
indeed it is so distant in its antiquity that we
sue loth to fix it at either the did Gothic
or Moorish epoch, or ascribe it to later
and more christian*like and Christian times,
that a certain district bordering on the sunny
shores of the wide Mediterranean, and called
the CostaI*Ore, wasagitated byvarioussingular
rumours, and disturbed by impressions of an
extraordinary character. Civilization and the
arts had happily here developed themselves
much more broadly than elsewhere. The con­
sequence was a high state of refinement of the
inhabitants.
To this might be owing the speculation im­
plied in, and fanciful characterof the persuasion
upon which the reader shall shortly perceive
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
the interest of our story hangs. This per->
suasion was so dim and shadowy, and at the
same time so improbable, that I feel fearfnl of
proceeding.
“ Plague this fellow!" cries the reader.
“ H ere he goes again 1 When will he leave
off these tedious digressions! Here has he
been at it for the last half hour, hovering
about his story without commencing it. Nib­
bling like a child at a cherry, taking a ridicu­
lous and misplaced pleasure in going all ronnd
it, and never attacking it honestly at once. Is
his story so hot that he cannot handle it?”
“ Dear reader, be not impatient. Smooth
that ruffled front, and pray consider that if you
do not permit ns, like Sancho, to tell our story
in our own way, the chances are that you will
get no story at all. And that would bea great
pity, we can tell you; for we take it
upon our conscience to aver that our tale will
be, if not the longest in the world, (which is a
blessing), the most—”
THB SHIP OF GLASS. 9
“ Amusing, of coarse. Oh, we understand
all that! But, good sir, you are—”
“ Becoming tedious. We fear so. Patience,
considerate reader; and as Durandarte says,
4 shuffle the cards,’ which being interpreted,
means shuffle off, if you please, the first
chapter. We have but three words more before
we plunge in madias ret. Well then-—
”
Our dread is that geographers instead of
holding up their hands In wonder, and opening
their eyes in astonishment, as we should desire
them, might disappoint us, and 'when they
have held up their heads tarn them away
meeringly and in impatience, which would be
worse work than the shaking them in simple
incredulity.
Greatly is it to regretted, and deeply to be
deplored, that there should be so much reluct­
ance to believe. To acknowledge assertions
which, though true, must be necessarily desti­
tute of evidence, and the means of confirma­
tion, in proportion to their strangeness. Of
b 5
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
the ordinary and the usual there is fortunately
abundance of proof. Everybody is ready to
stand forward and aver to it, and perhaps with
all the greater readiness because there is no
need of it.
But he who would relate new things, and
impart singular truths, is ungratefully met
with that solid, not to call it stolid, sort of
disbelief, which, like a great hard wall, opposes
itself stoutly and immoveably to the thrusts
of the light lances of the extraordinary.
Certain things, though unlikely, may be none
the less true. This is an axiom in physics;
as, that if you employ a medical man he may
omit to send you in the bill.
The learned classes, too, are, we lament to
say, ordinarily found much too selfishly and
obstinately aggravated to that which were
they to examine might prove as equally worth
credit as some of their own theories.
It istherefore witha movinganxiety as to this
difficulty of reception and hardness of heart,
T U I SHIP OP OlaAMa 11
and stifneas of neck and grievous apathy to
the startling, that we proceed to enlighten all
who remain of the curious as to the nature
of these rumours which were circulated in
this unknown place, province, principality or
kingdom.
CHAPTER II,
AN OLD SPANISH DRINKING-HOUSE.
“ This will prove a brave kingdom to me.”
Tempest. Act iiL Scene 3.
“ Whether thou bee’et, or no.
Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me,
I not know.”
Shakespeare.
“ You do yet taste
Some subtilties o' the isle, that will not let you
Believe things certain.” •
Shakespeare.
It had been for a long time, indeed, as high as
tradition reached, for in legal phrase the fact
was not contradicted by historical abstersion,
TIB* SHIP OP GLASS. 13
and the “ memory of man ran not to the con­
trary,” a settled belief in the province of Al-
tosierro that an island existed out at sea, which
was susceptible of discovery, but yet was
eternally baffling all attempts at falling in
with it.
Perhaps this might haw been owing to the
fact that the inhabitants of this portion of
Spain shared but little of the slowness and in­
activity of other Spanish tribes. On the con­
trary, they were of a bustling, enquiring char­
acter, of vivid imagination, and as it would
have been designated in modern phraseology,
of a castle-building chateaux d* Espagne turn.
Their situation on the seashore, with such an
ample line of coast, might have assisted them
in their dreams of what, at that time, lay un­
discovered in the impenetrable solitudes of the
vast ocean.
Their usual habit of life was quiet and ro­
mantic. They were not much disturbed, or
permitted themselves not to be so, with the
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
noise of commerce, though their trade was ex­
tended into many parts and strange regions,
and into the corners of the then mysterious
Europe. From these places their travel­
ling merchants, and the more enterpris­
ing of their mariners, brought back strange
stories, which served to amuse the winter’s
hearth or beguile the long summer day.
This singular belief that there existed such
an extraordinary island, had descended from
times of antiquity; altered indeed, and modi­
fied in its passage, but still preserving more
than might be expected of its original “ form
and pressure.” There was evidently a dispo­
sition amongst this primitive people -to believe
according to the good old standard. And when
the uncouthnesa and inaptitude to modern cus­
toms of the legend, and its contradictionto the
persuasions of later times presented difficulties
somewhat troublesome, there yet lingered a
desire to assign it in the new modifications to
THE 8HIP OF GLASS. 15
whicb, in course of years, it became subject, as
much as possible to the reverend and dearly
cherished original
Many were the stories associated with this
singular belief. Thus safe and unshaken had
it come down, altered, perhaps, in particulars,
but still perpetuated in its form of a convic­
tion ; nor did advance in education, or dis­
coveries in science, or the growing reluctance
to believe accompanying the progress in re­
finement and enlarged knowledge, do more
than adjust to present tastes the old fashioned
prejudice.
There was scarcely a family but possessed in
its archives some tale or ciroumstance which
bore relation to it. A predecessor bad in some
way oonneeted himself, or been connected with
the legend, and had contributed some marvel,
or bad rendered assistance of less pretension to
the general, nay the national article of faith.
Indeed, in time, it came to blend itself with
the religion of the country, and it was con-
16 THE SHIP O t Q U M .
sidered equally ns great a crime to question a
dogma of the sacred creed, as to infer a doubt
of the existence of this unknown and tantalis­
ing island, which was always hiding itself, and
would never be discovered.
At this present time, curiosity was excited
in the question of the reality of this island
to an extraordinary degree. A notion of
wonderful wealth associated in some way with
its discovery, generally prevailed. It was the
first dream of childhood... it was the re-
very of youth. Occupied with the ne­
cessary occupations, and the noise and the
business of the world, men in middle life
would yet recur to it as a something in the cor­
ner of their hearts, and a point to wonder and
speculate upon. It would creep into the
drowsy talk of old age, and generally wound
up every old woman’s — aye, and every old
mans gossiping. In fact, it was the dream of
a whole people, which had a mischievous and
damping effect upon attention to everyday and
THB SHIP OF GLASS. 17
useful matters. It encouraged listless vaporing,
and a continual desire for unattainable good, and
all sorts of idle dreams, to the prejudice of
wholesome activity and the exertion of plain
common sense.
When a whole people could not escape the
infection, it may be readily supposed that it
was the quick and imaginative youth, who ear­
liest gave in to this subdued but enfeebling
disease. Upon the young it exerted its great­
est power. The dreams of boyhood were im­
pressed with the besetting vision. All the
country was persuaded that there was some­
thing to be discovered ; and as from time im­
memorial it has been the peculiar pro­
vince and incontestible right of womankind to
unravel all secrets, it may be well imagined
that no pains were spared, and no female assi­
duity and perseverance were wanting towards
this grand eclairciuement
Every one tried their hand at it; from the
THE (!1IP OF OI.A8S.
cobbler’* boy who mended shoes on a three-
legged stool, to the governor of the country
who sat upon a dais of three grades, and dined
under a triple canopy.
Having made our reader acquainted with
the state of public opinion on this interesting
subject in the inquisitive country of Altosierro,
we will at once introduce himinto its principal
town, and per nit him to observe things a
little closer and more narrowly and particu­
larly.
It was a lovely evening in the fervid mouth
of August. There was that breathing warmth
in the sky, and poured abroad in the earth
that made itself felt as a new and enclosing
atmosphere. Notwithstanding the advancing
hour, everything out of doom, (for our scene is
an interior,) was intensely brilliant. You
would have thought from au observation of
things out of window, that it was high noon
and an unclouded sun, instead of half past five
of the clock.
■
1o < "
"
iiQ '! n
;::"
c>
THE SHIP OF OLAft: 19
• Everything stood silent in the strong hest
—for it is the property of a high state of tem­
perature and a steady sun, to create stillness
only equalled by that of night. All objects
were disclosed, as if there were some double
illumination—a sort of mighty artificial light
which might pat to shame the petty expe­
dients of gas, oil, and the new disooreriea in
chemical combustion.
The apartment thus brightly lighted by the
setting sun, which was going down royally op­
posite its principal window, and pouring in
every direction, and in at the open casements, a
whole kingdom of flame, was large, though cu­
riously shaped, and with a low ceiling. The last
was crossed and re-mossed, and marked and
divided, and cut into angles and squares, and
mathematical figures innumerable. These
seemed running inextricably together; in some
places clinging andreticulating likethe piecesof
a kaleidoscope; in others, with more orderly
20 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
propriety, joining edges and forming large tie- •
vice;*. This roof, which was a wonder of its
kind, was divided at stated distances by a
range of parallel beams, with a series of curi­
ous knots placed in a row and very much like
little round draughtmen, or the bezants of
heraldry, a resemblance the more striking as
they were of a dull gold.
A pewterlustre or chandelier, or to whatever
denomination it may have laid claim, of exceed­
ingly droll shape, with fifty arms similar tolong,
thin, curling snakes, withtheir mouths open like
bells, was suspended in the midst by a rope
of crimson silk twist and a bulging tassel of
dingy red bullion■
..reminding the observer of
the fringed decoration to the halberts or par-
tizans of the Roman soldiery, where Pontius
Pilate stands presiding in an old sacred
picture in his purple mantle and classic
gaiters.
The walls of the apartment were of a dark
THE SHIP OF Of ASS. 21
Wood, burnt black by a centnry or two of
Spanish sun, and gaping in innumerable
seams, their edges dry and sharp as a penknife.
They doubled in and doubled out with m ec­
centric inconstancy, as if the room had been
composed of one immense black folding screen
with the gilt leather and the shining nails.
Abundance of carving of the most outlandish
fashion was to be seen in the antique panelling
and the ranges of clumsy cornice.
Festoons of foliage, with a certain large star-
flower which was frequently repeated, or a
strange barbarous head, half Bacchante, half
Harpy, or half virgin, asthe taste or fancy of
the person contemplating it might suggest;
grotesque bodies with the heads wanting ; or
some tincorporated demi-angels or demi-devils,
with great staring eyes of blue glass or opal,
and oafish ears, twining in a kind of ludicrous
and unnatural conflict, met the eye in every
direction. There was also a curious up and
down, triplicated zig-zag kind of ornament,
22 m SHIP Of OtA8fc
ending in mighty bosses winged with dragon’s
wings like the flying globe of the Egyptian
hieroglyphics, with a claw on a gigantic scale in
the centre, perhaps,grasping a ring of a singular
green metal—neither bronze, nor brass, nor
green copper—for which it would be difficult
to find a name.
All these out of the way carvings, old, bat­
tered and worm-eaten, decayed or deformed,
covered the walls, and gave the roomthe most
extraordinary look in the world, just as if
it had been an apartment in a house in the
moon.
Windows there were three, wide andgaping,
though set iu deep reveals. There were jing­
ling lattices and yellowish glass, and settees
and Indian mats, and various comforts of that
kind. Chairs with enormous high backs and
little broken pediments on tbe top of them or
round balls and spires, and rare devices in tur-
nery, the patterns for which seemed brought
M B SHU OF GLAM. 23
from some carious kingdom underground j two
tables which appeared to hare stood where
they were placed since the creation of the
world; and a pair of tall iron candlesticks with
pillars of wax in them, which looked as if they
had been abstracted, on a moonlight night,
from some Catholic chapel buried in woods or
raised on the summit of an inaccessible hill...
these formed the principal furniture.
There was a crazy beaufet, or court cup­
board, on one aide. Its shelves were disposed
like the advanced works of a citadel, and
gleamed with old pkte and some oddly cornered
dishes and platters, of such awful amplitude
that they looked as if they might have served
the giant Morgante and all his household, or
theCyclopsof Sicily when giving a ponderously
magnificent entertainment to their iron-visagcd
monarch, Vulean. So mysteriously dreadful
did these shining ateneils appear that they only
lookedfit chargers for Herodias, or appropriate
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
dishes to serve up men’s grisly bearded heads
in, with their skins of leather and brazen ear­
nings, at an Ogre banquet.
The whole style and arrangements of the
place were of the quaintest character. Even
the glass of the windows, and the wood of the
furniture seemed to be different to the glass and
wood found elsewhere.
No signs of abandonment or neglect were to
be discerned about this curious apartment. The
table was covered with drinking vessels of all
kinds. So various was their description, that
one might have fancied to supply the stock all
such stores hadbeen ransacked from the creation
of the world, or from that period at least when
mankind took to drinking — which, we may
presume, was tolerably early, considering the
proficiency to judge fromthe instance of Noah,
at which they so soon arrived. These
utensils for liquids were of every conceivable
shape, and of all metals, or rather of all mate^
rials.
THB SHIP Of GLA88. 25
There were long-shanked affairs with a sin­
gularly twisted curl for handle, tall beakers
like flower-pots, and flat receptacles like
saucers. Some were rotund and burly; others
squat; and a third class were of all the family
of ups and downs. There were blue glass and
glass ; grey pottery and red stone; pew­
ter—nay, silver, or silver plate; and silver-gilt,
if not solid gold.
Scattered aroundthis mighty club-table, was
an assemblage of hearty gentlemen, who might
from the clatter they made, and the evident
state of jollity and sun shiny excitement to
which they had attained, have been mistaken
for the knights of King Arthur’s famous Round
Table, except that unfortunately their table was
square.
■There were about eight or ten individuals
seated, or if not, strictly speaking, seated, at
least deposited in chairs, or on stools or seats
of some kind. Their attitudes displayed all
possible modes of a bestowal of their persons;
and the angles of the seats seemed in' particu­
lar and remarkable request- There was not
one whohad the courage, or, to do him justice*
perhaps the ability, to sit straight up in his
chairL
like a Christian and a gentleman- The
only use these personages appeared to make
of their seats, was to employ them as a sort of
peg on which to bang themselves. Some leant
back and gazed up at the ceiling in edifying
bewilderment Some with their heads declin­
ing over their shoulders, and their long hair
depending, and perhaps with one arm and
hand idly dangling, might as well have been
upon the door for all the reasonable purposes
they exhibited in sitting up. Others again sat
propping themselves as courageously as they
could up in their seats, with their steady eyes
carefully fixed, alive enough to the predica­
ment in which they were placed; and, as their
attitudes hinted, as much afraid, and as grotes­
quely excited, as if they were sitting at the
edge of a cliff, and were in momentary and
fearful expectation of heing tilted over.
THK BMP Of GLAB8. 27
Behind these, veterans who stuck to their
colours as long aacolcnm remained for than to
cleave to, were scattered group of less
persevering disciples of Bacchus. These noisy
and riotous neophytes, who invoked the rubi­
cund god with shout and seream rather than the
tokens of grave attachment, and with the silent
devotion of older devotees, were throwing
themselves into all sorts of attitudes, which
would have struck as more impressive and ex­
traordinary than graceful on canvas.
The dress of all these worthies, was droll and
fantastic in the extreme. There were one or
two with good headsand fine features, but their
faces were encased perhaps in a blue woollen
hood, or a high peaked cap, which spoiled them*
or their effect was changed by small round cap,
like ordinary plates, and a high feather, so tail
that you might think there would never be an
end of it. Small indeed was the number who
displayed themselves to advantage.
The strangeness of the dresses, the swartbi-
c 3
28 THE SHIP- OF GLASS.
neas of the men, their long, dark hair and
twiated moustachios, long handa and long legs,
the eagle eyea which abounded, with a glance
as sharp as a javelin; and, with these character*
istics, the multitude of chalices and drinking
cupa,andthe outlandish furniture, the uncouth*
ness of the language, and the glorious aum-
set, made up as extraordinary and as pictures­
quely peculiar a scene, asperhaps was ever shut
in by walla and ceiling..
CHAPTER IIL
THE DISPUTE.
"Now, dose font ears to *pleadings. Stir not
hence,
T il you hare trounced him soundly. Such a brag­
gart
Moon neversaw, much less the searching sun.
Which ’tw irl the bright east mid the cold grey west,
Pours thousand beams far Bitting. Tie him up I
And strangle pity, that dies hall not stretch
Her piteous hands to save him."
Old Play.
“ Fang.—A rescue 1 A rescue I
HotUu Quickly.—Good people, bring a rescue or
two.”
Second Part of King Henry the Fourth. Act n.
Scene i.
P erhaps the most conspicuous figure in this
aompany of boozers, was a young man of con-
m
ane ship or s u n .
siderable height, but with legs of a longitude
greater in proportion than his elevation war­
ranted. He was of a high and determined
bearing, with bright dark eyes, a long face,
long nose, well-shaped chin, and an olive com­
plexion.
His movements were hasty and vehement,
and betrayed emotions of no very peaceable or
probably easily mollified character. His right
■run was extended, in a sort of accusative im­
petuosity, towards a small thin man, dressed
in three or four colours, whose face was red
with mingled shame, anger, and ruffled
pride, whilst he seemed to shrink away
like the sensitive plant every time the fist
of his opponent was even shaken. Around
the two, many of those present bad gathered
and the rest looked on over the backs of the
chairs, or ova the shoulders of such of their
companions as were nearest the disputants, or
np in a dull sort of vague half-fuddled oorio-
sity from the table, from which they seemed
TUB SHIP OP GLASS. 31
indisposed to stir to satisfy beyond this the
fresh interest which had arisen in their minds.
“ Don’t make so much noise, Pietro,” said
one of the pacific order, of which there were
few enough present. “ Pimpernel* can hear
JOB«
“ Hear me I of course he does,” cried
Pietro, the young man whom we have described
as being in this high state of excitement,
and the object of attention to the company.
“ The walls hear me, and so I should wish
them, for I never listened to such a mean,
baokdrawing, withdrawing, parleying recanta­
tion. Would you have believed it ?”
“ I believe every thing,” said one of the
wise men at the table, “ and that, I take it, is
the best mode of managing, for then you can
never encounter contradiction.”
" Comrades and friends,” cried Pietro,
“ you pay me a very indifferent compliment in
clasping our dear Pimpernella so affectionately
round the collar. “ Do not be afraid. I am
32 THE 8HTP OF GLASS.
no bulldog; and he may smooth his ruff in
full confidence that I shall not dart at his
throat and rumple it. Does he mean to say
that he must talk, and brag in his drink, and
tell lies, and swagger, and that as privileged
buffoon and ticketed bravado nobody is to cut
me off his copper gilt tassels?”
“ Yon won’t let the poor fellow have a
word,” chimed in a pitying acquaintance.
“ See, his eyes are fixed on yon, Pietro, as if
he were conjuring something up from the
depths of his stomach if you would let him ar­
ticulate.”
“ Let the white dog speak,” returned Pietro,
in tones like growling thunder, “ and the shep­
herd shall withhold his club for a time.
“ Come, we shouldn’t have any quarreling,
for the bet-was made in bnmour after all,”
said one of the group, named Hap Warmhose,
a middle-aged, contented-looking individual,
with a round, happy-looking face, and a sly
eye. “ The Senhora Phroditis would fed
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 33
herselfbut ill complimented, if when her name
was brought in question there should be bard
words and harder fists over her.”
“ But you all heard the bet I made,” said
Pietro, his eager face first turning to one of
his comrades, and then to another, as if he
were seeking confirmation of what he was de
mantling. “ Pimpernella, the fool, knew fast
enough what he was advancing, and what he
was engaging to do. By the ten stars of St.
Packthread! if 1 don't make him hold his en­
gagement. He shall put his courage to issue
this eve, spite of all the bearded custodian’s
vials, powders, and imps.”
“ ’Tis but fair,” said a noisy member of the
society named Pickaxos. “ Pimperuella must
run the gauntlet through the risk; or we shall
first submit him to his penance, which won't
be white wool, and then kick him out of our
all honourable society.”
“ He’sa slippery knave,” cried Hap Warm-
hose ; “ but what can you expect of a tailor?”
c 5
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
“ Tailors were bona for needle and thread as
naturally,” said Fickaxos, “ as the big ox eats
grass.”
“ Peace, senhors, peace 1
” cried Pietro. “ I
will give the tailor his present chance. Per­
haps he’ll pluck heart of grace, and say like a
Trojan he’ll beard the white-headed owl for
the sake of the young dove. Come, Pimper-
nella 1 up with your heart and let ns hear the
few false notes of that cracked instrument of
music of yours. Give the bellows wind, and
let the puppet gorge squeak.”
“ Speak, man, speak ! Have yon put your
voice in your pocket ?” said two or three,
roughly shaking the poor tailor.
“ By our holy lady, you would shake the
breath out of a giant,” said Pimpernella, en­
deavouring to disengage himself, and placing
his hands on the arms of two of those who
detained him. “ How can you expect that I
should speak, if you keep thrusting your big
hands into one’s mouth, and marking those
''1
..
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 35
iron knuckles of yours in my flesh? Besides
you’re all upon me, and I have nobody to
reply to you, or to take my part, or wield an
arm for me but myself. Thank Heaven, when
I like I can find myself not the weakest in
the world! but no thanks to you. Very un­
friendly of you, Mends! very; though you
mayn’t think so. As to Pietro, I shouldn’t
have answered him, or have spoken a word to
him, did you not all look to me as if there
were something in particular between me and
him. I don’t see it But we’ve already
wasted so much time, that I think it would
be better to discuss—”
“ Now 1 now! No, you don’t get off in that
way,” shouted several to the mortified tailor,
who was looking anxiously about, as if he
were in an extreme state of desire for some
honourable mode of retreat from the per­
plexity into which he had contrived to intro­
duce himself
“ Don’t press upon me so, gentlemen,” cried
36 THO SHIP OF GLASS.
Pimpernella, beginning to fed really alarmed
at tbe threatening gestures and eager and
wild-looking and inflamed visages of his com­
panions. “ You have really no mercy on toes,
heels, or elbows.’’
“ Will you do it, then? Will you do it?”
shouted Pietro. “ Will you force your way
into Klypp Heufueros’ garden, and will you
make him show you his daughter ?”
“ Oh I that’s demanding too much,” cried
the tailor, expostulating]/, “ Achilles himself
wouldn’t have done it. I never—”
“ Did he not,” cried Pietro, turning sud­
denly round. “ I appeal. What was his
offer?”
“ Something very like it,” cried Pickaxos.
*' Too much like it, at all events, for him to
escape. Didhenot say thathecoulddosomething
that none of uscouiddo? Did he not com­
pare himself to me ? and I flatter myself I
have as lovely a face for bold doings as most
He shall redeem himself, or we will mark him
THE SHIP OT GLASS. 3?
with ten thousand hot irons. Diavolos! By
Saint Stampos* black moustachios, but he shall
do all that he has said he’ll do j”
“ Oh senhors! Oh good friends! you never
supposed that I could mean to dare the mighty
Klypp’s black images and all his devils. All
the town trembles at him; aud you’ve beard
what they say—that when he snores the foun­
dations of the city rock.”
“ He’s afraid 1 Ahl he’s afraid. He won’t
do it. He’s streaked—streaked with white!”
shouted a dozen in gleeful chorus, delighted at
the opportunity of punishing the tailor and
affording themselves amusement at the same
time.
“ Come, will you swear upon my holy silver
ring to do it or not T demandedPietro, fiercely,
and grasping Pimpernella by the collar, which
gave way is in his hands as if partaking, of
the fright of its owner, and fell in a pitiful
rent adown the doughtytailor’sdoublet.
. Pimpernella was so terrified at this sudden
38 TUB sn ip OF GLASS.
assault, and discomposed by the awful tear­
ing of his somewhat pretending frill, which
stuck out bombastically and seemed always in
the way, that he fell down on his knees and
clasped his hands oven his tom collar, as if it
had been a wound and he desired to Btop the
blood.
“ I will—
I will do it some time,” moaned
the tailor. “ I will do it perhaps next Christ­
mas.”
“ Christmas I He mocks us—he jeers—he
laughs at us,” cried a roaring dozen, amongst
whom Pickaxos was foremost *
*Away with
him I”
“ Aye! away with him,” cried Pietro;
“ and away with every craven who walks upon
two legs. He may think it well that we do
sot mark him with the bloody cross. Better
men have suffered it for more pardonable
self-vaunting. Fix him to the post, and let
Mm have his silver run.”
This referred to a custom wMch obtained in
TUB SHIP OF SLABS. 39
this curiously constituted club, and by the
laws of which it was permitted that a member
whowent from his word, and refused to redeem
when called upon any engagement into which
he had voluntarily entered, or to make good
any boast made in the assembly, should be
fastened op to a post, and that every individual
present should have the privilege, if he chose
to exercise it, of casting anything which might
be to be found upon the table at the head of
the general victim.
“ Oh 1 no, my masters,” shrieked the tailor.
“ Allot me any penalty—give me any penance,
but don't fix me up to that horrid beam.”
“ You should have thought of that before,
senhor,” said Pickaxos, amidst a whirlwind of
laughter, stamping on the floor, mook howling,
oaths, and invocations to all the saints that
could be remembered presiding over correction
of offenders,
“ The wooden spine is too good for him,”
said a grim short man, with an eye which might
40 TUB SHIP o r GLASS.
almost have J)een called of a cold green.
“ I’d rather break his bones on marble
than wood. Hark yo, senhors'; it would be a
capital punishment for his bragging to make
Pimpernella, the tailor, sew up his owu
mouth. And we might guide his fingers.”
At this savage but ingenious proposal there
was a general laugh, which ended off in a de­
lighted whine from the most brutal.
Every person more peaceably and mercifully
disposed slupk off to the entry of the room,
while the more boisterous and the most intoxi­
cated bustled eagerly forward and felt about
the table for the heaviest goblets, which they
grasped with a nervous trembling anxiety and
relaxed fingers. Others, cooler in their move­
ments, and more refined and scientific over
their expected banquet of blows, picked out
with fastidious nicety, and to indulge a certain
luxury in cruelty, all the articles which pre­
sented the hardest bosses and the sharpest
corners,
tub an* or cnyysa. 41
ll was evident that although ml those pre­
sent would have been more or less indisposed
and disinclined themselves to have performed
the bold task for refusing whieh they were
about to indict such severe and summary casti­
gation on the tailor, they felt high pleasure in
venting the mischievous and violent tarn which
their revelry had taken upon the body of their
companion, least able as he was to take care of
Mmaelf, and, therefore the eafest to practise
upon.
In fact the mirth of the company had risen
to a dangerous pitch. All was noise and up­
roar, with the figures of the malevolently
bustling boon companions intermingling and
twisted in all directions, as they made for the
table and armed themselves with the projectiles
they chose, or struggled forward with Pimper­
nel* in their arms, who kicked, and cried, and
wrestledin impotentdespairand vain contention
with his burly associates, whose ribs were like
non and arms brawny to the last degree. He
42 THE SHIP or GLASS.
looked like some poor weak animal—a sheep,
for instance—about to be sacrificed by a herd
of red-eyed wolves.
The poor tailor cast piteous looks around, in
vain imploring assistance. At last his fright
and distress became so great, that be ceased
actual resistance, and had to be dragged along
the floor by his relentless and now evidently
savagely excited associates. His small thin
limbs traded resiatlessly behind him; his curi­
ous peaked shoes scraping the dark planks
as if he wasentirely benumbed with terror, and
deprived, much less of struggling, of the
capacity of even uttering a cry. He looked
an effigy of a man: and was now seen, now
lost in the midst of the pushing, straining,
whooping band, with seemingly nomore feeling
or volition in his limbs than if they had been
stuffed with sawdust.
In a multitude of sunburnt faces with the
hair streaming wildly, the eyes starting, and
the cheeks heated and swollen with intern-
•BBS 8H1T OP GLASS. 43
peranee; inacrowd suchasformed perchance by
the mad priests of Bacchus at a Saturnalia;
amongstlong arms and short arms, rough boots
and galligaskins, spurs like small fire-shovels,
and long Spanish rapiers with bulbs of metal
at their top, which swung, and hitched, and
bumped,and clattered—surrounded with figures
adorned as thus, and tossed and bnfieted about
amidst a heap of brown cloaks and redjackets,
yellow skirts, broad brimmed tombrerot^ which
were dropping from their owners’ heads or
hastily replaced and that perhaps awry, and
drooping or broken feathers, was the body of
Pimpernella raised on its tiptoes and fastened
up, tied tightly with three dozen scarfs, to
the penitential beam.
This was a curious kind of column against
the wan with a twisted capital, and its base
formed of a coiled serpent resting on a square
plinth.
The larger vessels on the table were already
in the hands of the fiercest members of this
44 TUB SHIP ©» GLAM.
persecuting convocation. On the table rested
the remainder, all laid together and piled up so
as to form a reserve of ammunition when the
continuous fire usual on such occasions should
have exhausted the projectiles appropriated
beforehand.
“ Oh! mercy, senhors,” cried Pimpernella,
his eyes glancing with alarm from one drink­
ing goblet to another as he saw them grasped
in three dozen flinty flats.
" Speak truth, then, another time, and don’t
brag. * We are now going to give you a lesson
on vain speaking,” cried Pickaxes. I shall
make you bow to my particular reproof, I can
promise you.”
“ Cease howling, you cur!” cried another,
deliberately taking aim at the unfortunate
tailor’s head with an enormous pewter flaggon,
the handle of which was formed by the curled
tail of a scorpion in act to sting. “ Cease
howling,” he cried, taking Ms sight coolly with
one eye, as he seemed with a waving motion
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 45
of his hand to be timing himself before he
threw. “ Cry not out before thou art hurt, or
I will give myself a pace of advantage over
thine inviting sconce.®
“ Oh don’t throw f Have pity. Withhold
those fearful things for the love of all yon
hold holiest 1
” cried, or rather screamed, the
nnhappy Pimpernella. “ Oh! don't throw for
the sake of all the saints.”
“ 1 shall, for the sake of the father of all
the lies,” returned hie tormentor.
“ Now, then, are we ready ? Clear the
course! Yiva! viva! Here are the bulls!”
(a proverbial Spanish exclamation of delight.)
* Pietro, thy granite nozzle should be first in;”
cried Fickaxos.
As Pickaxos said this, he unbuckled his
rapier, as if to bestow upon himself greater
freedom for his intended assault upon the
tailor. Another careful individual, as if pre­
paring for the scene of penance with business­
like coolness, took off his short sticking-out
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
cloak, folded it carefully in longitudinal divi­
sions, and hung it up by the collar on a long
brass peg.
Pimpernella’s entreaties were unattended
to ; and in the narrow space to which he was
limited, he was endeavouring to shuffle round
so as to prepare himself for the metal shower
by presenting the side of his head and his ad­
vanced elbow to his ruthless persecutors.
All arranged themselves in rank, a formid­
able row of sacrificial ministers, armed with
implements of punishment dreadful enough to
look at and overwhelmingly terrific to expect
The apartment echoed with the noise. Some
danced; some knocked their metal vessels on
the floor; aud the female domestics of the
posada crowded into the doorway, holding up
their upper dress before their faces, but peep­
ing over with round intent eyes, and a sort
of wincing yet eagerly excited curiosity.
" First place to Pickaxoa,” cried Pietro.
TUB SHIP O f BLASS. 47
“ Advance one lag:—one; two; tliree; and
throw.”
“ Oh! saints be merciful to my sinful souL
Here it comes I” ejaculated Pimpernella in
anguish, and making the pout actually shake
in hisanticipatory writhing.
“ Off with you, Pickaxos!” cried two or
three.
One, two, three, was counted; and forward
lew the missile with which Pickaxos was
armed—an immense pewter goblet with arise
of bone. It struck the poor tutor on the
shoulder and fell crashing to the floor, along
which it first bounded and then rolled.
“ A clumsy toss,” cried one or two.
“ I’ll lay a wager our friend Kot will mend
it,” said Pietro. “ He snarls like a dog, but
tosses coppers and kettles like an emperor.”
“ Don’t praise him to his face,” said Pick­
axoe, Mor we shall hare for the future every
vessel, as soon as he looks into it, blush extern-
pore."
*
48 THS SHIP OP GLASS.
“ Now, Kot, now 1
” cried Pietro. *
*A tight-
fitting crown for the tailor jammed down on
his sconce, with the tankard lid hanging down
behind to keep the rain off”
“ Why, goesipe, he’ll beat King Charle­
magne with that plated pot on his head,”
said one.
“ Knock in the top, hearts of oak, and yonll
crown him with the iron crown,” said another.
“ We shall have him nailed to the post,”
said a third, “ like a Babylonian foot-soldier
skewered up with his own spear to a tree by
the victor Numidians.”
“ Break up the shell of the tortoise! Tumble
the stones about the ears of the ass! Let
daylight into Ms cave of thought,” were the
ones of some of those more behind,
Kot, the moat brutal of the whole assembly,
rough as they might have been considered,
stept forward with malicious alacrity mid
turned up his cuffs. He then grasped a great
stone jug, and balancing it with dexterity
THE SHIP OP GLAM. 49
between finger and thumb, so that It might
swing whirling round when he let it fly, took
cool aim at the poor tailor’
-e exposed head.
“ Viva! Long live the great Kot! King of
the Bullies, and Tetrareh of the Tagraga,”
shouted the savage Fickaxos. “ Pietro, you
look grave at that granite water-bason.”
One; two ; were counted; and at the third
exclamation the poor tailor would without
doubt have been levelled with the floor, if not
killed, had not just as Kot was opening his
lips to enunciate the fatal “ three,” and swing­
ing bis arm back to its full length to give it
further force, a terrible crash of one of the
diatnond-paned windows scattered glass in all
directions in a sharp rattling shower.
At the same instant the no less extraor­
dinary apparition than a loose heavy boot, with
about half a hundred weight of brass on its
heel, and a huge jingling spur, came flying in
at the hole in the window in the midst of the
shower of glass, astonishing the assembly, au.l
VOL. L D
■
O'I)
m TBS 81IIF OF GLASS.
causing them to drop the terrible implements
which were intended for the poor victim’s
head.
There was a pause. Kot stood arrested in
his attitude; and then several rushed to the
broken window, shouting out with wild glee,
and kicking and capering about as if they were
possessed.
“ Cunique 1 Cunique! That’sthe madman’s
tread who runs up the aides of people’s
houses, and dances on weathercocks. Cuni­
que ! Here he comes 1 Cunique the Roarer I’*
THE SHIP OF' GLASS. 51
CHAPTER IV.
A STRANGE CHARACTER.
“ While I .may scape,
I will preserve myself; and am bethought
To take the basest and most poorest shape
That ever penury, in contempt of man,
Brought near to beast; my face 111 grime with
filth,
Blanket my loins, elf all my hair in knots,
And with presented nakedness outface
The winds and persecutions of the sky.
The country gives me proof and precedent
Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
Strike, in their numbed and mortified bare arms,
Pins, wooden pricks, nails, sprigs of rosemary.
And with this horrible object, from low farms,
Poor pelting villages, sheep-cotes, and mils,
Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
Enforce their charity. Poor Turlygood ! poor Tom 1
That’s something yet Edgar, I nothing am 1
”
Shakespeare.
Fob poor Pimpernels the interruption of the
boot occurred at the best of times. The at-
d 3
; / ! ... nil'll . e
5 2 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
tention of the busy assembly seemed instan­
taneously diverted from their victim to the
new comer, who was, judging from the
noise and exclamations given utterance to at
the announcement of his close neighbourhood,
a personage of no little consideration.
Even the tailor lifted his head, and inwardly
poured out a thanksgiving for his narrow escape
from the formidable presents of his.incensed
colleagues. The windows were crowded with
eager heads as the buzz and the bustle testi­
fied that Cunique, whoever he might be, was
approaching.
Soon afterwards a loud voice, but exces­
sively sw eet in some of the upper notes, was
heard singing out in the street. There was
an affectation of hoarse roughness which might
have promised a burly, bulky exterior, heavy
as a cart-horse, wheu the musician should
make himself visible. But with wild caprice
the hnrsh bass note would dwindle away into
a thin piping treble, and the sonorous shake
THE SHIP Of GLASS. 53
first tremble and then wind away into a delicate
falsetto, light as woven glass. As the voice
drew near, the words of the song took some­
thing of this form—
“ O mine is a noble lineage.
And mine is the haughty name ;
A broad gold piece defends my heart,
A sword my hand may claim.
A sword to win a new world’s wealth,
And tame the old one’s pride—
Over, over, over, over,
Over the double bridge;
Like stars we fly through the drooping sky
And skirt the ragged ridge.
Nay, M at not now, what matters it,
If slowwedraw our breath I
If the thicket makes to-night our bed
Or the wild uni lonely heath.
Or this, or that, or anything,
Nought care I what I be ;
If the wide Ay makes my lofty arch.
My canopy a trm
I'Ci'b
34 THE feHIP OF GLASS.
My banquet spread of dockleaf dead,
An acornfor my cup—
And all the day
No single ray
Of sun peep through the shade ;
But a thick wall wove
Of the dark green grove—”
At this moment there were heard three
thumps on the door, ae if a battering ram was
al work.
“ Bun and open the door, Marcus, or the
wild fellow will run his spear through the
wooden breast-plate,” said Pietro.
The door was quickly opened, and in stalked
one of the most curiously disguised figures
which perhaps ever greeted the eye.
The new comer was a young man of slender
form and middle height, with a face which,
spite of the wild and gipsey-like length and
plentitude of his hair, and the reckless, ragged
way in which it dung about his ears and cheek,
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 55
sad twined and twisted when he turned his
bead about, might have been termed startlingly
handsome. His forehead was high and smooth,
and white as ivory. His complexion was a
clear olive, with a tinge of rich colour in his
cheek, which would every now and then
deepen and increase the brilliancy of his fine
teeth, and add to the effect of his faultlessly
curved lips. His eyes were blacTc and sharp
as cut jet. His eyebrows were of an unex­
ceptionable shape, though from his usual pene­
trating mode of regarding an object, they
slanted in towards his nose when he bent his
browe with a greater concentration of thought
than usual.
As for his dress, it was a masquerade. He
wore a wrapping sort of tunic, which slanted
over his chert and was brought round and
fastened behind. Strangely enough in such a
dimate, it was trimmed with fur. The colour
of this frock was dark green; and at regular
intervals along its top, there were long pea-
THE SHIP OF O U K .
dants of plaited straw. His waist was bound
in with a belt of embossed leather, ornamented
with large silver broadpieces by way of me­
dallions. He wore tight hose on his legs, and
short gaiters round his ankles. His left boot,
the counterpart of the truly formidable mis­
sive sent forward to announce his approach,
was on his foot, and he limped in with the air
that a man who had but one foot comfortably
shod might be supposed to have. He bad an
ancient cloak on his shoulders, with a cape
- hanging low, and the lining turned out and
streaming like a tattered ensign. A cloth cap,
something resembling the Cap ofMaintenance,
was upon his head, and stuck so upon one side
that it looked almost tumbling off. A band of
large, flat, ragged shells, strung upon gold
twist, encircled bis head covering, in front of
which was mounted an oyster shell emblazoned
with some armorial bearings, and forming an
ornamental base for three immensely long pea­
cock’s feathers with as many emerald eyes.
nil O
tsub flam* o* g la s s . 5 7
For arms th is e c c e n tric b o re a sin g u la rly
elegant ra p ie r In a parchment sh e a th , and sus­
pended from over Ms shoulder by a plated
chain of plain rectangular links. In his rig h t
h a n d , inarching in w ith all the pomposity of a
tambour-major, he flourished a huge baton
w ith a gilt h ead , about the siae of an ordinary
bedpost, and decorated, instead ofa tassel, with
■even long ribbons o f different colours, the
tints exactly th e sam e as those of the rainbow.
On his entrance he rolled his eye round and
seemed to comprehend the scene in a moment
“ Just in time, Roarer; just in time for the
best sport in the world. We’ve broken the
chicken’s first wing already.”
“ Not a word, not a word, till the head of
my foot has been thrust into its leather house
again,” returned Cunique, waving his hand
round to silenee them. “ One of you, senhors,
just lift my tramper hither.”
The boot was instantly given Cunique, and,
standing upright, he pulled it on in an instant.
» 5
68 THE SHIP OF QLASfl*
“ What bring’st ' thee hither, Wildfire ?”
asked Pietro.
“ You.”
“ You heard our uoise, I suppose, and stum­
bled on our rites.”
“ Rites are holy; it seems I stumbled on
your orgies,” said Cunique. “ What have
you been about? You’ve set your brains a
swimming. One dozen and a half goodly
barks, with high top-gallants and an universe
of sails, three gold ribs and bows of sawdust,
laden with lead, with feathers for rudders and
the devil’s pockethandkerchief for your scarlet
ensign. G iv e me a cup of wine, if you have
not dived down to the metal of your last pot-
tlepot.”
“ Wine! why you’re always drinking, or if
you do not do that, for you never show its
effects, you always make it seem as if you
did,” said Pietro. “ Bullies, turn the tum­
blers up I Over with them, and see if you
THE SHIP OF GLASS. A
9
cannot squeeze out o f th e ir pewter flanks a’
few drops of white blood."
“ What*s the meaning of this sight?” said
dunique, pointing w ith . h is lo n g stick to th e
tailor, and then with the reverse end pushing
off sundry drinking vessels from the table,
■which fell clanking and clattering to the floor.
“ Don’t scatter our ammunition, devil’s
bellows,” said Pickaxos, postulating
“ We’re only flashing some fire out of this
roll of damp tinder. We were only inter­
rupted by your unexpected appearance.”
“ Like an angel on a silver wire for a long
strait beam, or a Gorgon with its moving hair,
and its eyes of cold blue stone,” returned Cu-
nique. “ What has the poor wretch done ?
for his look is horribly scared."
“ Boasted of what he couldn’t do; bragged
of being able to do a certain thing which he
couldn’t even think,” returned Pietro. “ He
has h ad th e face to compare h im self with
m e I”
60 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
“ Well,” said Cnnique, folding his arms,
andlooking with much complacency in Pietro’s
face.
“ Weill” repeated Pietro. “ I think that’s
enough.”
“ So it is,” said Cunique, “ considering
that you’re the head of the Salamanders, and
he’s the tail. But methinks you’ve made him
one presentalready; for yonder flagon with the
lid,” he continued, pointing to the floor,
“ gapes as if, like a leech, it were already
gorged with blood. That’s been at him, has it
not?”
“ That was the firstinstalment,” saidPietro,
“ and as yet the only one. We’ll give you a
handsome card, if you like to take a hand in
our game.”
“ Muchas gracias” returned Cunique, “ but
the spots don’t suit me. It’s easy hitting when
the bird’s bound. But what was this bold
feat, or high achievement, which Pimpernella
has vaunted his capacity to compass the accom-
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 61
piishment of. Something sharper than aneedle,
and longer than a yard of thread, I suppose.”
“ Something sharper than a aword, and
tougher than an inch rope, yon should have
said, senhor Cnnique,” cried Fickaxos. It
would well try the bravery of a valiant man,
and be something that he might boast of after­
wards, if, like our friend here, he happened to
be one of the boasting brotherhood. I must
confess I should myself like to Bay I had done
the deed, and I have not altogether the heart
ofa mouse, but 1 couldn’t promise to undertake
it half a mile this side of a demi-gallon of
brandy.”
*
*And yet you’d punish this poor animal for
only declining to do what you confess you are
afraid of, yourself,’’ said Cunique.
“ Afraid1 Who’s afraid ?” roared the bully,
suddenly.
‘‘ I am,” was Cunique’s reply:—afraid of
you; for if you commenced the task, I should
62 THE SHIP OP GLAM.
sadly fear your magnanimity and self sacri­
ficing spirit might induce you soon to resign
the tempting honour in favour of some humbler
rival. But, Senhor Pietro, what is the poor
tailor’s derelict ?”
“ We’re only punishing him according to
our laws, Senhor Saint, “ replied Pietro.”
Pimpernella, the tailor, chose to lay a wager
with a simple man named Pietro, that he
would do what nobody has done yet, see the
daughter of that old wizard and crazed
mathematician, old Klypp Heufueros. Nay
he said he would get into the house, and
speak to her in her own chamber.”
“ Has old Klypp a daughter ?” asked Cu-
nique.
“ Has he ?” returned Pietro, “ aye! you
may ask the question, for nobody knows ex­
cept from common report.”
“ She must be seventeen years by this time,”
mid one of the more quiet of the company.
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 63
“ and it is bruited abroad that she is lovelier
than the sun at noon day.
“ That may well be,” said Cunique, “ I
found the sun at noon this day far more ardent
than lovely. Say the moon, aenhor,” he con­
tinued, with a droll assumption of fantastical
gallantry. “ Say the moon; lovelier than the
loveliest moon.”
“ Nobody can say that they have clapped
eyes on her,” said Pietro.
“ More the pity, per dm , then!” said Cu­
nique, *
*if she be such a charmer. But what
could have possessed the poor simple Pinuper-
nella to make such an ill-advised boast ? What
miserable demon of vanity could have so piti­
fully deluded him as that he was to fancy this
magnificent feat of arms was reserved for him?
He couldn’t have understood her, if he had seen
her.”
“ All the to w n rings w ith her praises,” said
Pietro; “ and lucky would the man be who
should catch a glimpse of her; fortunate as
THE SHIP OF 0 I.A8 *.
he who is to, oae day, hit upon the famous
island.”
“ Talk not of islands, they’re clouds,” cried
Clinique, “ and we shall go on dreaming
that folly until we’re islands ourselves—islands,
washed by a sea of ignorance.”
“ You may jeer, senhor,” rejoined Pietro,
“ but there is some man who will one day im­
mortalize himself by a discovery of this nota­
ble island. I only wish I could flatter myself
with an expectation that it might be my lot.
1 don’t want for courage; but I scarcely think
any sea-captain would ship me, promising ad­
venturer as I am.”
“ Put to sea yourself in a drinking bowl,”
suggested Cunique, “ and be independent;
your ship, your own, and your crew, yourself.”
*
*Oh I for a tithe ofthe wealth which would
flow to us if we could but hit the longitude of
this tantalising island,” ejaculated one of the
assembly.
“ I’d bit my courser with the finest gold,
THE SHIT OF GLASS. 65
build my stable of silver plate, and have a
mangerof ivory,”
“ And yen would do well when you haddone
testable yourself init,* said Cunique, “ for an
san, Ferdinando de Coarsewita An aaa who
longed for the unattainable golden eats, and
starved himself in despising his wholesome
native beams.”
“ Excellent, Cnniqne 1 excellent for the
Roarer,” cried Pietro, “ who never had but one
small silver piece in his poach, and that he
threw to a dog, like a half wit as he was.
Well, I shall suppose in future that the gid­
diest pated, the vicious and the wildest, the
rover and the rapscallion, the hunter and the
hunted, the three-tailed cloak and the single
button.—
-Wei, I was going to say something,
bat I will not.”
“ Say it,” murmured Cunique, looking
with his sharp eyes, though good natoredly, at
Pietro.
“ Pcrdiot! I shall come to yonin future for
#6 THE SHIP OP or,ASS.
advice. He’d not make a bad cura, with that
hat with the Vandyked brim, and that green
fringe for a jacket,” said Pietro.
“ By St. Michael’s staff, which he thrust
down the dragon’s throat, it’s all that’s left,
cried Cunique. “ The wardrobe that I ought
to have, is a walking one—for it ia all upon
other mens' backs. ■ They carry about with
them my scattered reversion of habiliments.
I’m possessed of a blessed independency, for I
move with all my property about me. Houses,
land, jewels andchains, and a sackof doubloons,
I carry it all upon me: and you see I tread
lightly enough.’*
“ You’ll lose your character,” said Hap
Warmhose.
“ That’s lost already,” returned Cunique.
“ All that remained of it is sunk to the bot­
tom, never to rise again. The last torn rag
which flattered in the air, and flashed in
the last sunset gleam, has gone down for ever
and-a-day, and left the gazing crowd to blame*
>
THE SHIP OF OLA88. 67
tr curse, or pity, as it seemed best to them
and its humour prompted. I’m a wretch,
mighty potentates, a wretch: all that remains
of a once goodly ship. I go drifting from
rock to rock, and breaking my heart upon
each ; and sometimes I strike shore, as I
have this afternoon burst in upon your most
noble deliberations and still more magnani­
mous practice. You saw my boot. ’Twas
my last mast, brought by the board, as the
nation say, and you know I’m half a one—
and tossed ^ to land before the ribbed
wreck.”
“ What can yon expect, Cunique ?” said
Hap Warmhoee, rather more seriously than
usual. “ You’¥e always been so wild a
slip 1
”
“ And am likely to be wilder,” returned
Cunique. “ The dog’s bit through bis silver
collar.”
“ YouVe turned yourself out of house.”
T«E SHU* OF GLAUS.
“ 1 have, until I turn, and tom in again,”
■aid unique. “ Houses ! little ones were
Imilt lor dogs. Large ones sure for women,
and not for men. They are the twinkling light*
which exhale if they are exposed to the sir.
Man is the steadier candle.”
“ And you go wandering about the
streets roaring ami screaming like a wild
creature I”
“ Like a striped zebra, or a grizzled hyena,”
returned Cunique. *
*A hyena with a moat me­
lodious laugh. My dear friend, I hare the
world to myself, whilst you boast but a miser­
able dog-bub”
“ And the people stare at you, and your
good careful uncle has been obliged to de­
sire you, and it was with tears in Ms eyes, to
quit his honest, steady roof.”
“ It was too steady for me,” said Cunique,
I should bare liked it to come down that I
might hare propped it up again.”
:
kx
TBS SKIT OS GLASS. 69
“ How Cunique subsists, nobody knows,”
chimed in Pietro.
“ It’s supposed he lives on bits of rusty steel
with » sauce of diluted gunpowder,” said Pick­
axos.
“ If you didn’t let fall a sensible word now
and then,” said Hap, “ people would set you
down for mad, Senhor Cunique.”
“ That isdie worst accusation which has been
brought against me yet,” cried Cunique. “ I’ve
been trying to escape from sense all my life, and
such must be my stupidity it seems, that I
have not succeeded all this time. In the
meanwhile,senhors, you’reforgettingthe amuse­
ment I so seasonably, and perhaps so unrea­
sonably interrupted.”
“ Aye, but we intend to resume it with an
increase of spirit,” said Pickaxos. “ Now,
senhors, to arms, or rather to pipkins I and Cu­
nique the Roarer shall take the .lead in the
shower. He shall be first river-godwith a mighty
water-pot.”
THE SHIP OF QT.A88.
" Oh I mercy, dear and considerate sen-
hors,” interrupted Pimpernella. “ Oh ! most
noble Cunique, won’t you say a word—will
you not interfere for your poor unfortunate
townsman ?”
“ We won’t admit a syllable,” said Pietro,
“ unless Pimpernella swears to beard Klypp,
the magician. He shall produce to us
bis steeple-crowned hat, and his silver
beard, as proofs that he has annihilated hint.”
“ Peace, gentlemen. Back 1
” cried Cu­
nique ; “ and down with your weapons. Pim­
pernella consents.”
“ Does he ?” cried Pietro. “ What does Pim­
pernella say to that!”
“ At least I do for him," continued Cu­
nique. “ Unbind him, senhors. I’ll redeem
his engagement, and I’ll see this unknown
fairy myself, ask her her name—nay, marry
her, if that will satisfy you, spite of her father’s
teeth and all his wondrous engines and his
workshop of devils.”
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 71
• “ Bravo 1 Long live Cunique !” cried all
the company.
“ You'll never do it 1
” said Pietro,
doubtfully ; and looking with a serioussmile at
Cunique.
Will I not ?” said Cunique. “ I never
stumbled at anything yet, and I am not
likely to be soared by an old bald eagle.”
“ ’Tis fearfulodds,”ejaculatedHapWarmhose
—“ single rapier to the firebrands of fiends.
Think about it, Cunique.”
“ Do you for me, Hap,’’said Cunique, “ and
give me the result to-morrow.”
“ 0 1 ten thousand thanks. May all the
saints bless you, and preserve you, my guar­
dian angel — my noble deliverer 1
” cried the
tailor, clasping his hands. “ What can I do
for you to show my gratitude?”
“ I’ll tell you what you can do for me, Pirn-
pernella. Make me a suit, and have it
ready by eleven of the clock this night,”
said Cunique.
j*
72 THB SHIP OP QLASS.
“ By the saints, to do that the tailor most
prick his fingers,” said Pietro. “ *Twould be
almost as hard work for him to support such a
scamper over cloth, as to stand up against our
shining shower.”
“ If I cannot make the noble Cunique a
glorious suit by that hour — and it is really
not possible else it should be done, if all my
journeymen—supposing that I had any—lay
up for a week after it,” said the tailor, “ I
can, at least, furnish him forth Eke any
prince from my store ready at hand. Let
him only depart with me thither, and
when he cometb oat you shall mistake
him for the governor of the province, or a
walking ingot.”
“ Unbind Pimpernella, and let me see
what bravery he can provide me,® said Cu- „
nique. “ You’ll find he’ll rig me out like any
St. George.”
“ St. George 1
” cried the delighted Pim-
perneila. “ Like St. Michael glittering in
THE SHIP OT OLAJB3. 73
harness from top to toe, and with the ran for
a shield.”
Pimpernella was almost as quickly unbound
as he was fastened up to his penitential
beam—and when free, he committed all sorts
of extravagances in an attempt to display his
gratitude.
In a little while all disappeared, and
Pimpernella was leading Cunique to hi*
work-shop.
vou L
74 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
CHAPTER ¥ .
THE NEW ARCHIMEDES J WITH AN INSIGHT INTO
HIS WORKSHOP.
“ I’ve got new mythological machinery,
And very handsome supernatural scenery.”
Don Juan.
“ Forsooth, a great arithmetician.”
Shakespeare.
“ You show too much of that
For which the people stir.
The people are abused."
Shakespeare.
W e have slightly glanced in the last chapter at
a personage who is destined to make no small
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 75
figure in our “ strange and eventful history.\
Klypp Heufueros was descended from an an­
cient family, whose genealogy stretched up
into the earliest times of the province. But
Klypp’s genealogical tree had grown straight
up Independently like a poplar. Its source
was hid in darkness, and only known to the
antiquarian mole, whose especial province it
^
is to burrow into secrets hidden in the mould
of antiquity.
Klypp Heufueros, the last and the present,
was so proud of this uninterrupted and, as
he would have thought, unspoiled descent,
that he had a mighty parchment, which took
about three days to look at, hung up on his
wall, detailing all the names in large letters,
—but unfortunately of a crooked, perverse,
and unintelligible character to all but himself,
of a regiment of ancestors, all marching
down, with their best foot foremost, in open
column, upon the large black circle which
was meant for Klypp himself, and the white
e 3
THIS SHIP OP GLASS,’
open one intended for his wife. Below, the'
line of ancestry ended in the neatest of all
possible medallions, emblazoned pink and gold,
and onwhich was inscribed the nameof Klypp’s
only daughter, the fair Phroditis,
The country of Altosierro knew nothing of
Klypp’s grandfather. Indeed, a grave charge
was brought against hin», in which all of his
house participated, that the first founder of
the family must have been the deviL So
greatly had Klypp shocked the prejudices of his
Catholic neighbours by his strange studies and
stranger discoveries. He had arrived in the
country in an unaccountable, and unaccounted
for, manner. In his intercourse with the in­
habitants of the particular place where he
fixed himself, be had restricted himself so
cautiously, and with such jealousy to those
communications only rendered absolutely ne­
cessary by his domestication in a new region,
that «ll the people were puzzled and very dis­
satisfied. When astray question was hazarded
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 77
m to his previous life, or any curiosity evinced
■m to hie objects in his change of abode, or in
anything relating] to him and his affairs, he
either preserved a moody silence, with his eyes
fixed on the ground,like the madman Cardenio,
or os the table, according as he happened to
be without doors or within. Or he quietly
and steadily looked his questioner full in the
face, without saying a syllable, which gene­
rally had the effect of calling up a blush in the
cheek, or precipitating some trifling confusion,
of which Klypp would take advantage by
turning the conversation. These little circum­
stances would make the inquisitive all the more
vexed with him. Under any cironmstaneee,
so uncomfortable did people foel when Klypp
looked at them io this manner, that they soon
gave up the asking of him questions. However
the public made amends for this discomforture
in Klypp's presence, by making pretty free
with his name when they were by themselves.
So yean passed on. Some timeafter he was
78 TH6 SHIP OP GLASS,
settled in the city, Klypp’s wife died; and he
seemed grievously afflicted for a long time
after herdecease, and redoubled hie pains upon,
and attention to the education and bringing
up of his daughter. At least so the world
said, for folks knew nothing of him as an ac­
quaintance ; and very slight and limited was
their knowledge of him in business trans­
actions.
During all this time he lived the most se­
cluded live possible. So remarkable did this
separation from and abandonment of the world
become, which was shared by all his house­
hold, that Klypp and his family grew into a
veritable marvel to his neighbours, and ended
in being the constant subject of their gossip-
ings in tbe evening—nay, of their noonday
talk, for tbe matter of that.
Years fled away. Nobody could tell whe­
ther this hermit-like life was agreeable to, or
an infliction upon the daughter of old Klypp,
for no one could boast of having seen, much
THE SUIP OF GLASS. 79
less conversed with her. There were females
in the household, and they were permitted
sometimes to show themselves abroad; but
scanty enough was the intelligence which could
be extracted from them, even by the most
persevering or adroit of their own sex. All
that was known, was that a young female,
called Klypp’s daughter, lived in his house
with him; and report whieh will be most busy
when it has least to occupy itself upon, de­
clared that she was the most beautiful creature
that ever was seen. It was on this account
that the world said Klypp was so careful of his
jewel.
Klypp was a mathematician, and a mighty
man of science, from which he had earned the
ungenerous and illiberal rumours which had
been spread abroad concerning his character.
Like all people who ascribe to the devil know­
ledge and inventions out of the common way,
and which they do not understand, the good
folks of the town confidently affirmed that
80 THE SEIF O f 3LASS.
Klypp's acquirements were more than mortal.
They said that Ms erudition was incalculable ;
that his philosophy was unfathomable (which
might have been possible); that he knew every­
thing, and was studying more; that he was
deep as a well (they might have said as deep
as Garrick, had Garrick then lived and the
expression been a common one); and as wise
as Solomon, or the three Kings of Cologne.
Altogether these sinister reports and disad­
vantageous whispers must have been very un­
pleasant to a respectable old gentleman of
quiet habits, who only desired to be left at
peace, and to live his own way.
Klypp’s genius was speculative as well as
practical, and his house was filled with carious
engines of a mostpuzzling character, and com­
plicated apparatus dll tending to some dis­
covery, or discoveries which nobody could
comprehend or get to the bottom of. He was
strongly suspected of having wasted some of
his best years in an unprofitable pursuit of the
•MB SHIP 07 GLAM. 81
philosopher's stone, the elixir vita, an univer­
sal dissolvent, and various of the secrets of
the IHuminati, the Boncrncians or Brothers of
tho Rosy Cross, and the Cabalists, for whom,
and for the great dead of past ages, he had a
becoming reverence.
There were either pictures or representa­
tions, or, as he might hare styled them, eido-
inu or icon*in bis house of the remarkable, and
especially the divinities of all ages. There
was the great Amoun, or Amoon-ra; Thoth,
or Mercury Trismegistus; Isis, Ioh, or lo;
Osiris-Anndphris; Anubis and Typhon, or
Khons-Kneph. Then there was Bubastes, the
Egyptian Diana, and there was Phtha or Vul­
can; Sate, Harsapes, Athor, Athyr, or Ha-
thor, Themis, Pasht, or the embodiment of the
Vindictive Principle, Horus-Apollo, and others,
g®* of the people of the Nile. Then came
others, Fohe or Fohi of the Chinese, with Con-
facias for moral philosophy, and Budha, Brah­
ms, Vishnu and Sieva for the great Indian
s 5
ice.
THE SHIP OF GLASS
continents, and Ashtaroth or Astarte of the
Phoenicians, and Omtnanes and Mithras, Oraa-
mades or Orasmade, and Ahrimanius, and
Rostan, and Zerdusht for the Chaldasans, and
the Magi, and the anoient Persians, and the
Guebres. Next came the gods and heroes of
the Veda or Vedda, and the Volluspa, and the
Princes of the Valhalla and Hela, not for­
getting the white horse of the Saxon Hengist,
and Sleepner, the matchless steed of the great
Woden, Waden or Odin; Loke, and the Runic
Friga. There were serpents from Midgard,
and little figures of penates, and names of the
mystic Valkyria, pagoda, Lapland idols, and
the great and little Lama.
Besides all these strange gods and monstro­
sities, Klypp’s house was garrisoned with a
battalion of upright mummies and eyeless
marbles, ami there were long Egyptian pro­
cessions about his dwelling upstairs and down,
with crowds of grim flat-nosed figures with
their clefts and gems, and the oskh, the oft, the
ice.
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 83
ptchenty the shaa, the shenti, the tosh, or royal
military cap, and heaven knows what a ll!
His laboratory was the most curious place
in the world, so was it provided with such
means as might enable
“ A mighty mechanist,
Bent with sublime Archimedean art,
To breathe a soul into the iron heart
Of some machine portentous, or strange gin,
Which, by the force of figured spells, might win
Its way over the sea, and sport therein;
For roundthe wallswere hung dread engines, such
As Vulcan never wrought for Jove to clutch
hrion or the Titan; or the quick
Wit of that man of God, St. Dominic,
To convince Atheist, Turk, or Heretic;
Or those in philosophic councils m et:
With thumbscrews, wheels, with tooth and spike
and jag,
With fishes found under the utmost crag
Of Norway and the storm-encompassed isles ;
And other strange and dread
Magical forms the brick floor overspread------
Proteus transformed to metal did not make
More figures, nor more strange; nor did he take
Such shapes of unintelligible bras,
i -........
C
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
Or heap himself in such a horrid mass
Of tin and iron, not to be understood.
And forms of unintelligible wood,
To puazle Tubal Cain and all his brood.
Great screws, and cones, and wheels, and grooved
blocks,
The elements of what will stand the shocks
Of wave, and wind, and time.—Upon the table
More knacks and quips there were than I am able
To catalologise in this verse of mine :—
A pretty bowl of wood—not full of wine,
But quicksilver; that dew which the gnomes
drink
When at their subterranean toil they swink,
Pledging the demons of the earthquake, who
lepiy to them in lava cry, halloo 1
”
Here, surrounded with such uncouth and un­
christian articles, would old Klypp for hours
sit.
“ Like some weird Archimage,
Plotting dark spells, and devilish enginery,”
or with his books before him, above which
his head would be only visible, in deep ab­
straction, and with lowered brows, anatomizing
.ex:.;
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 85
“ The purposes u d thoughts of men, whose eyes
Were dosed in distant years.”
His shelves groaned with musty tomes.
Amongst his books were to be found Aristotle
de phygica, de anima, de ccelo, de generatione et
corruptione, et de teruu: also Diogenes Laer­
tius, and Sextus Empiricus, Plato and Zeno-
phon, Thales and the Physiologists, Anaxi­
mander of Miletus, Pythagoras, Zenophanes
and the rest of the Eleatics, Heraclitus and
Anaxagoras, Empedocles and Democritus:
also Socrates and the Sophists, Antisthenes,
Arcesilaus and Carneadea: also the philoso­
phical school of Alexandria, and the round of
Neo-Platonism, and the Alexandrian Dialec­
tics and Trinity, and the doctrines of Emana­
tion, and Proclus, and such a cloud of Mystics,
and so fearful and totally unexpected a mob of
long-gowned old philosophers, as would have
frightened Minerva herself; nay, struck terror
into the breast of a BelIona. Dominie Samp-
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
86
son would have been beaten from his retreat
like Don Quixote from the Cave of Montesi-
noe by the swarm of crows; and that reverend
virgin, Learning, would have been fairly, or
very unfairly, stifled in the embraces of the
multitude.
Countless manuscripts of all sizes and of
all shapes, thick and thin, curled and muggy,
dusty and dogseared, lay piled in heaps in the
corners of his studio, like “ altars strange.”
Huge folios, so large that they would have
served Polyphemus, seated on tie top of a
“ Heaven-kissing hill,”
for his afternoon reading; with vellum covers
of all the dingy varieties of green and red.;
volumes bound in leather, and bulky books
bound in boards of goatskin, and with brazen
backs and copper clasps, adorned with the
beards of the goats for tassels of parti-coloared
hair, like the three tails of a Pacha, were to be
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 8?
seen. Such unheard of furniture as this, and
triangles and multangles of brass, and hour­
glasses as big as pier-glasses, and globes celes­
tial and terrestrial, and crucibles and all sorts
of retorts, and bottles and bags, and electrify­
ing machines, and things like gibbets, and
others like mousetraps, and others resembling
corkscrews, and others similar to wheels, and
some again of which no person on earth could
make either top or tail, were scattered about
“ In most admired disorder.”
In this antediluvian apartment would be
continually perceived all kinds of strange
odours, suggesting to those of acute sense
of smelling, and perhaps at the same time
of readily susceptible imagination, the droll­
est and the wildest fancies. Some of these
were delicious, such as would raise dreams
of intoxicating delight and produce the
sweetest sensations, and othershad enough. It
•m s SHIP Of* OLAM.
might have b e e n surmised that the countless
spirits of Klypp's nomeoclature werewandering
about o n ly revealed to a single avenue of per­
ception, the nose, and that they were thus kept
evaporating, and commingling, and condensing
as semi-bodiless objects, until their great
master, the Prospero of this haunted cell,
should from time to time call upon them to
oemmit and p e rp e tra te themselves into more
distinct existence.
Klypp’s ostensible profession, in which he
was renowned throughout the whole country,
was that of shipbuilding. To the construction
of his vessels he brought the most powerful
science, and all the resources of incessant study
and the abetrusest mathematics. Most elabo­
rate as well as numerous were the plans and
specifications, which he would prepare be­
fore he attempted to realize in practice the
notions whieh were labouring in his mind.
Ships were in his baud* much m ore than
ships. They were laid down with the utmost
TUB SHIP OV GLA; 89
ceremony, and all the arrangements of his
shipbuilding-yard were upon the most costly
wale, and of the most fastidious accuracy.
But he was little seen amongst his shipwrights.
The work proceeded in his yard; hammers
nag—men came and went—the great bell
sounded thrice a day and dismissed all the
quaintly contented operatives to their meals;
sad sounded again another three times and
recalled them, after an interval of a full hour
devoted to refreshment, for Klypp was very
careful of, and attentive to, his men; but the
misterwas very rarely seen. Everyone, how­
ever, knew his comprehensive mind and active
intellect were overlooking and directing all
which was done. There was little or no
curiosity in looks evinced, and seldom if ever
expressed, at his absence, even though he should
not shew himself for a week together.
His men were all of an orderly, painstaking
character, slow of speech and ever thoughtful
The goodly ship would silently grow in their
tH E SIH t OF GLASS*
50
hands, and gradually swell into a hull from its
keelson and floor timbers, and naval timbers
or ground futtocks and lower futtocks, from
the vertebrated links of its long spine. In the
summer’s sun, and the moonlight night, would
its long curved timbers seemingly extend and
then return as arching ribs to enclose the
hollow trunk in barred and flesbless sweep.
Indeed,thesehonest shipwrights looked, when
hammering in silent industy at the sides of the
skeleton ship, like a set of Frankensteins,
building up in glum array and ghastly still-
ness some strange and immense monster. Or
they might have been supposed, in their curi­
ous sticking-out skirts, grave faces, and out­
landish caps, a crew of shipwrecked spectres,
endeavouring to effect an escape from some
unknown, and unearthly coast.
Klypp’s leisure time, of which he had
abundance, was devoted to abstruse studies,
and countless speculations upon that which
was monopolising the attention of all the
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 91
country far and wide—the existence of the
mysterious island out at sea.
All his thoughts were bent upon this one
grand discovery; and, to tell truth, if the
island was susceptible of being discovered at
all, and no mere image from the mischievous
jack-o’-lantern of imagination, Klypp from
his accomplishment in art, and his unheard of
learning, seemed the individual marked out
for the distinction of settling the wonder.
For some reason or other he felt persuaded, or
he had succeeded in convincing himself, that
he was destined to have a high hand in the
laying open the treasures of this undiscovered
region, the surprises of this enchanted paradise,
to his longing countrymen.
Actuated with the hope, and impelled with
this fond desire which bore him up through
the most enormous fatigue, and such toil as
perhaps no man but himself could have sup­
ported, did Klypp labour on with his geogra­
phical books, his globes, his quadrants, his sex-
TBS SHIP Q t GLASS.
tants,and his astronomical instruments. Charts,
yards square in size, did he travel over and
retraverse with the most indefatigable dili­
gence, by the aid of an enormous pair of iron
spectacles which were especially appropriated to
this kind of rough work. All his brass imple­
ments and philosophical apparatus were put in
requisition, until there wassuch a wheeling of
wheels, and screwing of screws, and jingling
and clicking of clockwork, and such an occa­
sional clash when any of his complicated scien­
tific mechanism went wrong or got foul, that
he would have finished any old nervous lady
in two days. When seized with one of these
fits, which sometimes lasted weeks at a time,
you would have thought his house turned into
a vast machine, with shifting doors, and port­
cullises for gates, and windows which would
push either one way or the other, and quite
evade you if you wanted to lode in, much
worse if you wanted to look out. All bis
household clattered like a steamengine, puffing
THIS MB® OF GLASS. 93
and blowing, and hastening forward to over­
take this grand discovery.
Notwithstanding this continual and remorse­
less poring over his books, which wore them
out by so much looking at them, Klypp kept
up a sharp supervision over his household: and
his daughter, if she had ever so much desired
would have found it as difficult to have ob­
tained egress from her father's dwelling, as
from a windmill with the Bails whirling round
and momentarily flying by the only door.
_iOO£
THE SHIP OF CLASS-
CHAPTER VI.
TOMANRAITA, THE WILD PROPHETESS.
“I conjure you, by that which you profess,
(Howe’eryou came to know it) answer me.”
Shakespeare.
“ Mark, Marcus, mark I I understand her signs.'
Shaketpeare.
Kltpp’s occupation of ship-building, and the
frequent intercourse it superinduced with
mariners afforded him many opportunities of
obtaining information respecting hie chief
object, of which he always greedily availed
himself. Every seaman he saw waB questioned
THE SHIP OF GLASS.' m
and requestioned, until his rigid cross-exami­
nation had sucoeeded in eliciting all that the
other could supply him of new. These im-
partments he would compare with his own
observations and the conclusions arrived at
from his studies. Not a word concerning this
famous island would he suffer to escape him;
and it was only necessary to mention it to
secure at once his full attention.
Assisting the suppositions and guesses of
the inhabitants of this country, and throw­
ing a sort of light upon the problem, if light
that can be called which scarcely sufficed for
more than to render the darkness visible, was
a very ancient prophecy, preserved with most
religious care, and continually repeated when
the all-engrossing topic became the subject of
conversation, or occupied men’s thoughts when
there were by themselves. It would quite
transcend our power, even with a fresh packet
of a hundred quills and a gallon of ink, to put
the reader in possession of one fiftieth part of
THE BHTP o r OTUES.
the superstructures raised upon the base fur­
nished by this suggestive prophecy. Truly we
suspect the individual who offered it had more
mischief than good will in her head, when,
like the Sphynx, she propounded such a man-
killing conundrum.
It literally wore the brain to pieoes—the
attempt to unravel this inextricable tangle.
Whether it had an end, or, as the Irishman
declared, somebody had cut it off, nobody
could telL But everybody’s fingers were em­
ployed upon it—men, women and children,
bespectacled dames and infant eyes, the rich
and the poor, those with furred gowns and
those with no gowns at all, twining and wind­
ing, and twisting and disentangling, and pull­
ing out and unthreading, until you might have
conceived the bishop of the province had set
the population of the whole country in ludi­
crous and wholesale penance unravelling one
mighty skein of thread.
The prediction was a godsend to the inquiei-
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 97
tive natives of a country which wa« so bent
upon information. The only regret that min­
gled with their joy at the possession of it, was
that it was so short. The populace would have
preferred it to have been presented to them
in three volumes octavo, as a means of in some
degree satisfying their intense desire of know­
ing all about it, with a supplement for the
countrypeople, and for whom it was thought
secondhand information was all that could be
expected and was necessary.
But as this was unattainable, all that could
be done to make amends and atone for the
cruel brevity of this interesting fragment of
intelligence, was to provide a diffuse com­
mentary. And the deficiency was so well
supplied, and this latter became so voluminous,
that we seriously question whether the famous
library of Alexandria itself would have con­
tained it. As for the text itself, the foun­
dation of Buch a pyramid—the substratum
of such a mountain—the key-note of such a
VOL. I. F
m THE SHIP Of GLASS,
never-ending fantasia—the hint for such a
wonderful sermon—the great book of Heavi-
tome, which is described as taking eight oxen
to draw and giving you a headache for a week
to look at the title at the back, was a foul to it.
The oracle was pulled to pieces, and examined,
and dissected ; turned upside down, and read
backwards, looked at in all lights, weighed
with all weights, and considered so many
times, that it would be no exaggeration to say
that every letter was uprooted and scrutinized
at the back of, and the very places in the paper
fingered and looked through from which they
had been extracted.
Three hundred years before the date of our
true history, had this famous prediction been
promulgated. Tt had so been by an old woman
of snch extraordinary age that no one dare
think bow old she might be.
The history of the country, in which of
course she made considerable figure, repre-
THE SHIP OP OI.A8S. 99
seated ber as living in a cavern by the side of a
mountain, totally separated from humankind,
her only companion an immense raven, whose
glossy black hadchanged to silver grey through
age.
Very rarely, perhaps not more than once in
twelvemonth, did she condescend to emerge
from her gloomy dwelling and show her­
self.. And at last, these u angel visits, few and
far between,” altogether ceased ; and the in­
habitants of the country were left to their
wonder alone respecting her life, or to the fact
whether she were living or dead.
It was during one of her singular visits to
the peopled districts of the countrythat onbeing
met withmany anxious inquiries asto the means
of finding out the island, and an entreaty for
the course to be taken with the pro­
bability of meeting with it, she, after long re­
pulsing all her eager questioners, in the end
exhibited some disposition towards a waver-
p 3
TEE SHIP Of GLASS.
ing in her determination to keep her lips
closed.
So did the multitude throng after her, and
so impatient were they in their attemps to ab­
stract from her some oracle, having so high
an opinion of her judgment and the miraculous
penetration with which she was gifted, that she
turned abruptly round, probably before she had
completed the distance she had intended when
she emerged from her retirement.
As she turned to retrace her steps; she raised
her head to the sky and tossed back her shriv­
elled arm, extending herskinny fingers towards
the noisy crowd whose curiosity and cupidity
she seemed to reprobate by the act. All shrank
back in terror at her fixed and stony glance,
and were crowding together and trying
to hide themselves behind one another to escape
from the glassy stare with which she reviewed
the assembly, apparently endeavoring to single
out some victim on which to fix her Gorgon
TH E SH IP OP GLASS. 101
gaze. At last, perhaps being disappointed or
baffled, and sensei with the agony of prophesy,
like another Cassandra, thongh her rhapsodies
were fated to encounter a much more flattering
reception, she threw both her hands oyer her
head, clasped and twined her fingers, and shook
from head to heel like one possessed She
then gave vent to such an •unnatural —so
unearthly a shriek, that the orowd trembled
again.
In an instant, the shriek died off into a wail
Eke that of a hyena crying for food. Throwing
hergaze once more to earth, in a fit of the deep­
est abstraction she began muttering and mum­
blingsome unintelligible jargon.
It was not long before her voice was again
elevated; and waving her arms as if to enjoin
silence, she addressed the awe-struck and ex­
pectant assembly with these singular words.
“ The bold must put forth with his one life
to win a double. His ship must be of woven
light, and shadowless most be bis crew. Touch
with the hands, and win I”
102 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
Little jnougfa, it must be confessed, could be
gathered from this; and the assembly looked
at one another puzzled and in doubt—and also,
it may be added, with a keen amount of disap­
pointment. As for Tomanraita, the prophetess,
she gathered herrusty mantle hastily abouther,
burying herself in it like a crysalis, and fled
away with a shambling gait, but with the swift­
ness of thought.
THE SHIP OF OI.ASS. 103
CHAPTER X.
THE e n ig m a ; a n d t u b g r a n d a t t e m p t a t
ITS SOLUTION.
"One ooBunon cause makesmyriads of one breast.”
B y r o n .
“ I tell thee, fellow, there are none w a n t eyes to
direct them tie way 1 ana going, but such as wink,
and will not use them.”
Cymbeline.
These few words recorded in the foregoing
chapter, contained the sum or substance of the
famous legend, or prediction, or whatever it
might be called, which had kept the whole
country in agitation for so long a space.
TBS SHIP OF GLASS.
In truth little enough could be made out of
it. It darkly spoke of some bold person who
was to put forth, (os it was supposed to sea),
naturally enough since these anxious people
were in search of an island. He was not
only to put forth, but was to embark one
life in an unaccountable and unreasonable at­
tempt at obtaining another ; for which
there could be little occasion, seeing that
he was already possessed of nature’s usual
bounty in that respect. The injunction which
followed put the enquirers out of all patience.
A ship of woven light might certainly be an
architectural achievement in the imagina­
tion of a poet, but it was feared that it
might prove an idea rather diaphanous and
shadowy transplanted into a more natural
and less incoherently luxuriant soil. Com­
mon sense, nay the commonest flense, rea­
dily suggested that many summers might
elapse before the frame of inch a sonny ship
waseven finished, and that under circnmstances
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 105
sodifficult its “ quick work,” to speak learn­
edly of eachmatters, might be very slow work
indeed. Even supposing that the loom of
man's all surpassing and conquering inge­
nuity should be found adequate to the delicate
task of weaving the rays of light into sails
and cordage, and the Midsummer sunbeams,
as thestrongestprocurable, had been fabricated
into glowing timbers and shining spars, how
thenthis sunshiny ship should be manned with
a ihadowless crew, was a puzzle flying in the
very face of light itself, and so contradictory
that it outraged even the decency ofpossibility.
Perplexity thickened to the last clause of
thisbaffling and vexatious prediction.
“ Touch with the hands and win!”
Now, though it was easy, enough to touch,
everybody’s experience went to satisfy that
one might touch just one hundred times with­
out winning anything, except disappointment.
r 5
ill)!.)1
1
!
:
:
,
,
!
1
1
I t!
106 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
More “ poohs I” and “ pshaws!” and “ im­
possibles!” and “ monatroos follieiT’ were
lavished on this unlucky annunciation of the
poor prophetess, than we could number
with a calculating machine of twenty-horse
power.
It was abandoned, and scowled at, and
sneered it, and treated with the utmost in­
dignity over and over again, in spite of the
awe and reverence which the name alone of
Tomanraita inspired. Constantly would it be
taken up again however, and re-examined, and
then laid down with hopeless despondency and
humiliating mortification. The wisest heads
could make nothing of it; and these, it might
have been reckoned surprising, very often
drew the most illogical and quickly
contradicted conclusions. It formed the
bugbear at once, and the laugh of the
whole country, until almost the discovery
of a rational solution to this national
enigma would have been looked upon aa
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 107
fcsurprise ts great, and brought as much credit
to the individual, as the discovery of
the wonderful island itself.
Klypp laboured on with painstaking per*
severance towards unravelling this secret which
baffled the united endeavours of the public.
Long did he sit in debate with himself as to
the meaning of this speech of the prophetess.
When other people were comfortably bestowed
in their beds, Klypp’s lamp might have been
seen burning; and he was all the time occu­
pied with incessant attempts at deciphering
that which perhaps was never capable of being
made out.
It was after three hours one night of inde­
fatigable poring over this mysterious fragment
of intelligence, and he had just completed the
copying it out for perhaps the fiftieth time
in order to impress every letter more strongly
on his memory, when in turning over in his
mind that passage relating to the necessity of
the ship for the discovery of this extraordinary
THE SHIP OV GLASS.
island ,being of no less novel material th an
woven light, a Budden light, surely of kindred
brightness to that which was to compose
this dazling vessel, burst upon his mind.
“ Eureka 1 Spirit of Archimedes, I have it
at last T he cried, starting up quite delighted,
pulling off his spectacles in agitation, and
twisting up his black buckram gown behind
into a sort of tail, which he swung backwards
and forwards as he paced very fastup and down
his ancient chamber. “ At last I have arrived
at the meaning of this part of the prophecy at
all events, and it is the principal one. The
■hip must be of woven light. That means,
being interpreted and its figurative language
translated into common sense and pure Spanish
at the same time, the ship must be of
glass. She mast be of glass. I see it now,
plain.as the sun, at noonday. A glass ship is
destined to make tins extraordinary discovery
which willimmortalize me.”
Klypp was so overjoyed at having made this
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 109
grand discovery, and he felt so confident of his
interpretation of the injunction ofthe prophecy
being the true one, that notwithstandinghis ex­
treme desireinstantlytoenlightenthe world with
the effect of his unparallelled penetration, and
at once dazzle and confound everybody with
die sublimity of his genius, he placed such
guard over himself, watched himself so closely,
and so heroically managed and mastered the
turbulence of his spirits, and restrained his
impatience, that he shut himself up three days
and never spoke to a soul. He had his pro­
visions meantime introduced through a chink
in the door.
At the end of this time, he came forth; but
his secret remained double-locked in his own
bosom and he might have been said to have
swallowed the key.
He 6et immediately to work with his plans,
and his sections, and schemes for the build­
ing of this fragile argosy.
All shook their heads, and said that the
110 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
Senhor Klypp Heufueros was gone mad, or
building a toy ship, or constructing a some­
thing which was to be the eighth wonder of the
world.
Klypp’s best men were devoted to this un­
heard of work. While he abandoned to the
supervision of his two trusty foremen, grave
personages of staid demeanor and such merito­
rious silence that they limited themselves to
two words per diem on working days and one
on Sundays—while we say he confided to these
two “ reverend seigniors,” whose names were
respectively Andreas Stiffaspoker and Toss
Tongueless, all the duties of his shipyard,
and the construction of all other argosies, he
took entirely upon himself the direction and
management of the building of this ship of
ships.
At the present time this matchless vessel
had far progressed towards completion. So
excellent were the hands employed upon her,
and so first rate were they in all qualifications
THE SHIP OF GI.ASS. I l l
that pertained to shipwrights, and so distin­
guished in their honourable “ calling,” or to
speak more “ by the card,” their honourable oc­
cupation, since the two respectably quiet over­
seers, Senhor Andreas Stiffaspoker and Senhor
Toss Tongueless, might have objected to the
former clamorous designation of their trade:
of such a character, we repeat, were the
workmen employed upon this particular
craft, that the Ship of Glass promised to be the
most perfect, as she would certainly be the
most original specimen of ship-building ever
laid down.
112 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
CHAPTER VIII.
RLYPP’S SHIPBUILDING YARD, AND 1IIS
d a u g h te r’u PROMENADE.
“ You know the peril.—
I’ll fetch a turn about the garden, pitying
The pangs of barred affections.”
Cymbeline.
“ Some lively touches of my daughter’s favour.”
At You Like It.
“ Marry, HI teach you. Think yourself a baby.”
Hamlet.
“ So stiff; so mute, some statue, you would swear,
Stepp’d from its pedestal to take the air.”
Imitations of Horace.
It was about twilight of the same evening
which witnessed the bet between Pimpernella,
THE SHIP Of GLASS. 113
tie poor tailor, and the fiery Pietro; as also
the interruption of Cunique, aDd Ms rash en­
gagement to take the tailor’s penalty on
Ms own shoulders, and perform what he had
absurdly undertaken to do himself, that the
fur Fhroditis was walking in the shipyard of
her father, the great Klypp Heufueros.
It is certainly unfair, and very ungallant to
let a single word be said concerning the place
wherein tie fair Phroditis was taking her
evening exercise, before we impart a full, true,
and particular description of her person, with
the colour of her eyes and colour of her
ribbons, and so forth.
But do not let the reader be offended with
us, for if we pause in our description of the
beauty, it is only that by a word or two we
may, like prudent men and cannie writers,
clear away the rubbish before we display to
view that “ bright particular gem” which is
is to flash from amongst it. Or, if you better
like the figure, before we shovel away the
114 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
bricks and scrape away the mortar, or clear
away the mould to lay open to the eye this
peerless flower, we must stipulate for, or re*
quest, a rapid glance at all which environs it,
that there may be the necessary previous ac•
quointance with the nestling place of this
tender, blushing bud of beauty.
Klypp’a old ship-building yard was per­
haps the most extraordinary thing ever seen
this side the deluge. It was of good size,
with various slips adapted for craft of differ­
ent lengths. But a modern would have been
singularly amused with its eccentric appur­
tenances. The quaint yard, rigid and narrow
In its Spanish sternness, in which the ship
of Columbus, fated to discover a world, was
built, was nothing at all by the side of it.
The stocks on which the renowned Hendrick
Hudson’s ship of discovery, the Half Moon,
was constructed, would have been laughing
stocks when mentioned in the same breath
with it. Nay, we think the classic dock in
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 113
which that Hellenic seventy-four, the immor­
tal Argo, with her hundred pink feet and her
gilt eyes, was framed and planked, could not
have presented so droll an appearai.ee to the
eyes of a modern master .sMp-wright of an
English dock-yard, as Klypp’s salt water pre­
serve o f monster fish.
There were tali wooden towers, with hang­
ing windows bmied in carvings and shaking
with innumerable lace-work casements—little
peep-hole eyes in the roof—wooden galleries
and multitudinous grotesques; pendants be­
yond calculation, and demi-goblins guarding
comers, and tall, straight figures, neither
ghost nor devil, squinting up at great pro­
jecting beams like gibbets for giants. There
were yellow ropes and red Hocks, clashing
cranes and mighty engines in which you
might have swung a small bill in mid-air.
There seemed to have been a shower of pin­
nacles over Klypp’s wild buildings, soplentifully
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
were they scattered in all directions. Besides
all these monstrosities, there was such a scent
of tar and pitch, though here again there
was an astonishing difference to the usual
vitramarine.' may we call them, odours of ship­
building yards; for Klypp’s pitch seemed to
have something of an unexpected and won­
derful if not magical property in it, as it
smelt a great deal more like incense or a
mixture of curious aromatic gums. The yard,
indeed, with its fantastic buildings, its gro­
tesque minarets, and its strange colours, looked
greatly like a scene in a London pantomime
—and no one need have been surprised to
have beheld some outlandish figures, ani­
mated anamorphoses, with great heads and
unoouthly ludicrous gestures, come emerging
from behind the intercepting objects, as if
they were.quite at home and it was the natural
place to find them.
.All this was seen under a witching light, in-
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 117
describable in its purity and yet its doubt.
Clouds there were, and yet seemed not to be.
Light there was, and yet you seemed to see
object* by their own reflection. It might have
been not too much to say that the light was
in character with the scene and was ancient-
old fashioned light—reverend and grey—blue
and elfish, as all such weird light should be. 01
the twilight was romantically lustrous in sooth.
It would have driven Salvator Rosa wild.
As toPhroditis, charming creatureasshe was,
we tremble when we approach her. To expect
to do justice to her beauty with such a very
poor and inefficient—so miserable an imple­
ment as a pen, and a few high-flown flourishes
to result from the handling of it, would be
about as sane an expectation as to render the
glory of a morning midsummer sun with yel­
low ochre and flimsy canvas. We confess that
in the description of beauty we feel a certain
sort of dazzling and bewilderment. An un­
certainty seemetb to pervade us where we
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
should begin. Whether we should commence
with the toe and working upwards approach,
but approach with befitting caution and doubt­
ful and shame-faced sinuosities, the marvels of
the face, or at once fly at higher game, boldly
proceed with hair and eyes, and compel
our diffident brush to expatiate upon the coun­
tenance.
Phroditia was neither tall nor short, but of
the most charming of middle heights. Her
face was not so oval but that the roundness
imparted by liveliness and laughter was to be
traced. Her skin w&b white as milk, or white
as snow —snow being ordinarily more to be
depended upon for its whiteness, we will use
the comparison to it iu preference; but her
cheeks were of the most delicate rose colour,
just like the reflection of a rose leaf on a
lily when the sun shines through it. As to her
small round chin, and the little dimple by the
side of it, and her two cleft rose-buds of lips,
and the dazzling teeth, embattled pearls, which
THE SHIP OF O'ASS. 119
were disclosed from within, ‘they were ravish­
ing. For her pair of quick, mischievous eyes,
with their long silken fringe, which, when she
lowered those stars of gentle light, or deep
wells of feeling, totally concealed then!, like
black silk curtains veiling the glories of some
magnificent and dazzling shrine, they would
have routed an army of saints. These lottrous,
swimming, witching orbs, black to the very
extremity of blackness, would regard you with
all the innocent quietness in the world until
you ceased to speak, and then they would be
suddenly, and coquettishly, and consciously
snatched away, only to steal back to your coun­
tenance with a certain speculative alarm and
bold timidity, if there be such a thing, and
rogueish curiosity. Her eyes were, indeed, the
most difficult things to fix. They would close
into their white lids, and down would be let
their curtains, to be peeped through with a de­
nture watch, and a sharp, observant, sly sort of
_
_ .. '<?le
120 THE SHIP OF GL4S8.
fanciful neglect, and piquante indolence, whilst
her thoughts would seem to rise like rosy clouds
in her face when one looked in it.
As to her shape, it was faultless. The
smallest feet, and prettiest ancles in the world,
peeped out from beneath her ample skirt; and
her hair fell blackly and gloriously in abun­
dance of large, rich, flowing tresses, covering
her neck, and forming an ebon frame for her
lovely face, which glanced out like that of one
of the youngest angels.
Phroditis’s beauty in short was of that cha­
racter that you were struck dumb by it. You
could see in a moment that she was perfectly
well acquainted with her power, and was m
high and triumphant over her loveliness as it
was fit and proper, and all in the nature
of things, such a dear “ fragment of heaven”—
such a charming creature should be.
Her companion in this quiet twilight walk
was a—woman j which is saying as much as
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 121
could be expected after the introduction of
such aparagon. Truly, in other company, and
when left a little to herself and permitted
fair play, unexposed to such exterminating
rivalry, the Senhora Castilda would have been
reckoned pre-eminently handsome.
But by the side of her fair charge, you
might as well have talked of the most twink­
ling of the little twinkling stars in comparison
with the glorious sun—or of a mud hut (not to
speak it profanely,) in the same breath with a
magnificent marble palace with a thousand
columns. Phroditis's beauty, indeed, was of
that cast that it might have led captive a chain
of emperors half a mile long; while the exer­
tion of that of Castilda, perhaps would have
contrived and effected the attraction after her
of two score pikemen with a fat halberdier at
their head.
“ You are walking to-night my love,” said
Castilda, “ as fast as if you were seeking to
v o l. l a
...... '
122 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
make up for your father’s prohibition of
the streets by gathering to yourself as
great an amount of ground passed over as
possible.”
“ You should be very angry with him for
shutting you so up to look after me,” returned
Phroditis. “ And pray, what should I say,
who do not know what a paving-stone is like out
of doors.
“ A h! my dear child, you cannot tell what a
great town is like !” raid Castilda, throwing up
her eyes and crossing herself.
“ No, I cannot, indeed,” replied Phroditis ;
“ but I can understand what a tolerable amount
of discontent is.”
“ Do not say that, for 1 am convinced you
are very happy if you would but permit your­
self to think so.”
“ I should be very ready to think so,” was
Phroditis’s answer, “ if I could persuade my­
self of it—for I can comprehend that happi­
ness is something to be desired—though I
THE 8HIP OF GLASS. 123
confess I urn rather ignorant of the absolute
value of the word. I do not hear any bells
to-night, Castilda. What can be the meaning
of that ? I suppose it is because there is
no wind to put them in motion. How cu­
rious that the windshould be able to play those
pretty tunes f * ^
“ I have told you before, my love, I think,”
said the sage Castilda, “ that the bells are
played by men who pull the ropes. If I
could have prevailed upon your father to
allow me to show you how his great bell is
sounded in his yard, you would not at the pre­
sent moment be labouring under such a pitia­
ble delusion, for I should have removed a
few of your silly notions. But you know
your lather, for excellent reasons of his own,
will not—”
“ Let me come out out in the yard in
the daytime when the men are at work. But
I’ve seen them all in spite of him,” said Phro-
ditis, “ and they’re curious creatures. Why,
o 3
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
I’dratherlookatyou, Castilda,thansomeofthem.
Pray hare all the men out of doors long yellow-
hair and freckled faces ?”
“ You must really not ask me so many
useless questions,” replied Castilda, “ and I
think that your curiosity might be better
directed than inquiring after the looks of the
citizens of this good town. There are a
great many of the folks in Tafna-Khalifas
much uglier than your father Klypp’s handi­
craftsmen.”
“ And what do the men do in Tafna-Kha­
lifas, kind Castilda ?” queried Phroditis. “ You
have been out in the streets, and you can tell
me. Do they all hammer at ships as my father’s
people do?”
“ Some do, and some do not,” was Castilda’s
limited reply. “ There are various occupa­
tions which are followed, as you know by your
books. Tafna-Khalifas is a town like other
towns, and the people in it exercise various call­
ings or professions.”
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 125
“ I know I have read so,” said Phroditis,
“ hot I never could understand the use of it.
Why should they work so all day, and keep so
perseveringly at it, instead of looking out of
window and amusing themselves in the sun in
winter and the shade in summer ?”
“ Why, my love, for the best of reasons, and
that you might learn by experience were you
not so happily situated as you are with a
father so well able to provide for you, and so
careful of you that he cannot let you out of
his sight, or of my sight, which is the same
thing, you know. These poor people are so
compelled to labour to maintain their families;
and were their industry to cease, those who
have claims upon them might discontinue to
have their daily necessaries.”
“ But why should they be so fearful, Cas-
tilda?” enquired the inquisitive Phroditis. “ I
have everything brought to me without my
seeking it. But 1 am tired of walking up and
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
down this tedious yard. It is a lovely
twilight; but I can see it better from my
window. All else is denied me, and my
father seems determined to make life nothing
to me but one dull constant panorama, working
round and round like a silent picture that I
am to form no part of, and only to be its dumb
spectator, with you, Castilda, for the showman.
I am wearied of gazing at the voiceless figures.
Come, let us go in.”
The two females stopped themselves in the
middle of their turn from the house, and Cas­
tilda silently followed Phroditis, who had too
energetic a will of her own ever to be contra­
dicted when she set her mind upon any­
thing.
There. was, probably, some vexation
mingling with Fhroditis’s hasty determination
capriciously to abandon the yard and betake
herself indoors—but however that might have
been, and however disposed the Senhora Cas­
tilda might have felt herself on this particular
i J'C.)
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 127
occasion to prolong their walk, she sub­
mitted to the (in somethings,) imperious
young beauty, and returned in with her with
every token of complacent and uncomplain­
ing acquiescence.
THE 8BUP OP GLAM
CHAPTER IX
THE CHAMBEB OF THE PAUL PHBODITIS,
“The high moon sails upon her beauteous way.
Serenely smoothing o’er the lofty walls
Of these tall piles and gleamingpalaces.”
Marino Faliero.
“ ’Tis herbreathing, that
Perfumes the chamber thus. The flame o’ the
taper
Bows towards her, and wouldunderpeep her lids
To see the enclosed lights, now canopied
Under thesewindows, White Mid asure, laced
With blueof heaven'sowntinet. But my design
To note thechamber: I will write all down:
Such, and such pictures: There the windows :
Such
The adornment ofher couch : The arras figures,
Why, such and such.”
Shaketpeare.
P droditis and Castilda ascended several steps
introducing to a narrow door on one side of
THH SHIP OF GLASS. 129
the enclosed yard. This led them to apassage of
no great length, terminating in a high staircase,
which they ascended. Passing then through a
chamber of small size, which constituted a
sort of ante-room, they entered Phroditis’s
apartment.
This room was one of the most extraordi­
narily pretty which the fancy of man, or
woman either, generally, and, we think, justly,
reckoned more adroit and clever in the pictur­
ing of all things pretty, graceful, or in taste,
could have conceived. No pains indeed, and no
forethought seemed to have been wanting;
and, what is more, no expense was certainly
spared to render it worthy of the purposes to
which it was destined, and the use of so fair
and graceful a tenant as the Senhora Phroditis.
The boudoir, as it would have been desig­
nated in modern and fashionable phraseology,
was not so small in size but that it admitted of
considerable display in the way of furniture,
and afforded abundant accommodation. It had
o 5
130 THE SHIP Of GLASS.
t'VO narrow though very tall widows; and
here the jealous watchfulness and precaution
which had dictated tie strength of construc­
tion observable in the mannoa, were visible,
for the deep reveals, or rather the embrasures,
in which the lancet-shaped, mathematically
leaded casements were set, would have denied
anything like amusement from an approach
to the windows, had not in one merciful
instance the comfort of an inmate been
provided for. The second window was so cat
away at the sides that a species of bay or oriel
was formed in the thickness of the wall, ex­
ceedingly snag, and permitting a close proxi­
mity to the glass and consequently a capital
view out of doors.
The walls were composed of a rich wood,
excessively delicate, of a light colour, highly
polished and scattered over with eyes in the
grain.
There were large frames of panelling ex­
quisitely carved, and embracing within a
waving narrow silver moulding flat spaces of
THE SHIP OF SLABS. 131
dark blue tapestry. This latter was evidently
of the very richest and thickest kind, and
was covered with gorgeous arabesques. The
ceiling was of a dark shining wood, reticu­
lated diamond-wise or lozenge-fashion. The
windows were capable of being concealed,
when so it should be desired, with flowing
draperies ofcrimsonsilk; though the heavy folds
and droopingfringesof thelatter wereat the pre­
sent moment eitherloopedupwith goldpendants
of Saracenic slenderness and the chasest and
most elegant pattern, or, as might have been
observable in one or two instances, tossed
carelessly over the backs of the seats.
A square Persian carpet, bright with a thou­
sand colours, with a wide marone fringe,
was upon the floor ; the boards round it were
inlaid with red, white, and amber woods. Tiger
•Hus, or the coats of rare animals, were scat­
tered for repose. Mingling on the floor were
scented paper, rose leaves, gold threads, and
the many coloured feathers of fancy birds.
THE SHIP Of GLASS.
The furniture in the room was quite in a
moreaco taste. Cushions were piled one on
the other in the corner. These, and one or
two chairs very low in the seat and exceed­
ingly high in the back j some tables of filigree
upon which stood rose water jars and agate
vases, silver candelabra, and tall thin gold
tripods for incense and aromatics, from which
the blue smoke was lazily and fragrantly curl­
ing, like gay and festive altars silently burning
in a romantic atmosphere of their own, in
honour to the genius of all things graceful,
elegant, or physically refined; and a few other
quaint articles of furniture formed the move­
ables.
Upon an ornamental bracket sat a superbly
sculptured Cupid of ivory, with a silver collar
round his neck on which was engraved some
sentence in Arabic; and with a chain
of the same metal fastening him up to a
cross of saudal wood that boasted an abundance
of silver decoration. This little enchained
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 133
innocent, whose looks pleaded like a stray
cherub in distress, as well as he could contrive
to manage it from its size, was holding up a
clock in an octagonal case of cabalistic design,
some concealed machinery withinside setting
in motion every fifteen minutes a round of
chimes, cleartinkling bells, with such aflowing
and inexhaustible profusion of silver notes, as
might have been heard, an elfin curfew, softly
sounding in moonlight in fairy land, when from
their tiny gleaming arcades, and emerging from
nnder myriad little glowing domes, glancing
like babbles, Oberon and Titania, and all their
starry court, should trip forth in long and
dancing procession.
There were four female figures of exquisite
beauty in the four corners of the room, riding
on winged serpents, whose barbed tails curled
round into -a sort of arch, or' curve, or a some­
thing which might have been construed a magic
shell. These miniature divinities bore each a
torch of wax in a chased cup of solid silver.
THE SHIP OF GLA33.
The destination of this weird nook in the
old tumbledown mansion, and the tastes of its
lovely owner and her daily employments, were
evinced in the number of tapestry frames, balls
of worsted and coils of silk, and other ap­
pliances of female labour and female art.
which were to be lighted open everywhere.
Canvas for paintings, papers for drawings,
boards, easels, and the various utensils ana
small implements necessary to the artist, tes­
tified that Phroditis’ pretensions to talent
were not confined to the female domain of the
thread and needle casket.
Phroditis walked into this apartment with
the air of its mistress, and threw herself
languidly upon some of the cushions which
seemed to lie there for the very purpose. She
tossed her head carelessly and languishingly
back, permitted or rather could not hinder all
her shower of curls falling adrift over the rich
silk, and fixed her eyes upon the ceiling. As
if the ceiling, however, could not present to
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 135
her any feature of novelty, she soon relapsed
into indifference, softly let her long dark eye­
lashes close over her eyes, and appeared
gradually to decline into a soft voluptuous
t
revery, in which she lay as still as a piece of
lovely sculpture.
“ Now do, my kind, good Castilda, say some­
thing, or do anything that might put me
in a good humour, or in some humour," said,
or, rather, playfully and perhapB somewhat
affectedly drawled, Phroditis. “ 1 am fearfully
aweary this night of everything Even
my accustomed evening walk, and the lustrous
twilight, and the gaunt shapes and giant
curves of some two dozen argosies which my
father is concerned in building—nay, even
thine high and mighty presence, and that
staid, and solemn, and highly improving air
of gravity and dignified monition which you
put on sometimes, all have failed to have any
any effecet upon me. Everything seems
to. conspire to deny me feeling as happy as I
THE SHIP OP QT.ASS.
sometimes feel even in this gilded cage.
Would it be too poetic to suppose that
sometimes witching visions of lawns and
sunny slopes, and deep blue islands set like
sapphires in a sunny southern sky—aye, and
the air, open as the grateful heart and sweet
as liberty herself, visit the languishing, the
slow, long, weary dreams of the imprisoned
bird. I have birds—lovely, innocent, noisy
things, specks of sunshine, shivers from gems,
animated dew-drops, as an Arabian poet,
and I at humble distance, might call them,
whose scarlet, and purple, and orange fea­
thers are of Nature’s own embroidery— and
these poor captives are detained to pleasure
me ! My pleasure then makes other’s pain,
none the less acute for being supported within
gilt wires. Castilda, I have never thought
of this before.”
“ And I wish you had not thought of it
now,” murmured Castilda, though in so low
TUB SHIP OF GLASS. 137
a tone that nobody could hear her. “ This
girl will never let me be at peace. I warrant
shell next ask me to bring ell her cages
to her.”
“ I will get up,” continued Phroditis, as if
seized with a sudden thought, sitting straight
up in the cushion. “ I will get up, and I’ll
open all the doors of my cages. But would
not this evening air be too doubtful and dark
for them, delicate little things as they are;
and by freeing them at this present moment,
should 1 not be exposing them to greater tor­
ment than they can suffer from me within those
hateful prisons, which I detest now from the
bottom of my heart.”
“ Your last recollection, you see, by far the
most sensible—and one that 1 highly approve,
has corrected the ill-advised impetuosity ofyour
first resolve,” returned Castilda. “ My dear
love, you are much too quick.”
“ No, not the least shadow of a shade of it,”
THE SHIP OP GLAM.
was Phroditia'a instant and vigorous rejoinder;
“ only you are so—so immensely slow. Pri­
thee, Castilda, go to the window and look out,
and tell me if there is the evening star shi­
ning in the twilight.”
“ My dear child, it is as yet much too light,”
again murmured Castilda in a rather sleepy
tone, the disinclination to stir, and the evident
desire to keep the restless Phroditis quiet, ex­
pressed in which, was fully justified, and ren­
dered exceedingly consistent, by Castilda’s
comfortably recumbent attitude, as she lay
with her feet upon an ottoman, and her head
buried in the very softestcushion to be found in
Phroditis’ apartment—through which any rea­
sonably wearied man, or woman, either, for the
matter of that, might have sunk for ever, and
than without forming one wish to be extricated
to the ^lrface.
“ Besides, do you not see,” resumed Cas­
tilda, who was afraid ofthe quiet as dreading its
THE SUIT OF GLAM. 139
introduction of some new whim into the brad
of her wayward pupil, as the duenna fidgetted
her head a little about In her pillow, “ do
you not perceive, my dear, that the effect of
your evening star will be very considerably
heightened when it becomes a great deal
darker than it is at present. The twilight,
beautiful as it is now, most deepen greatly
before the thin lines of light grow into
strength, and the star, at present flickering
faintly, offers ,itself as the glorious object
it will be some time hence. Also
before the sky deepens sufficiently into its
dark, deep purple tint, to form the loveliest
back ground for the planet in its efful­
gence.”
“ Excellent, upon my conscience, Castil-
da I” answered Phroditis. “ Sentences as well
put together as could have been linked in
the brain of a professor after a day’s re­
flection. Except that, perhaps, he would have
improved on the delivery, or been justly
TBS SHIP OF O
LA
S8.
chargeable with indifference and mumbling.
But perhaps your sage lecture is as well
and as lucid as anything could be expected
from such a cushion as you have. No!
I cannot rest here any longer. If this
be your idle time, and a season for self-in­
dulgence, or, as perhaps you may exalt and
dignify if, for rumination, I will prefer to
ruminate gazing at that glorious sky. And I
will watch the little stars peep cautiously forth
one after the other, like sparks of boats
launched into the interminable sea. How
many of those stray lights are scattered every
night!”
“ How shouldl know 1
” was Castilda’s pee­
vish exclamation, after a pause as if she
was disinclined to give herself the trouble of
replying though there was no need of it, for
Phroditis was rather speaking to herself than
addressing her companion.
Phroditis, as if tired of her position of ease,
started up and stepped to the window. It was
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 141
of course that which permitted of a con­
templation of objects out of doors. SI;a un­
fastened the lattices, and threw them widely
open.
It was a lovely night As the soft air,
balmy and languishing in its voluptuous,
almost enervating mildness, found its way into
the apartment, a scarcely perceptible flutter of
the draperies was all the indication that the at­
mosphere without was not still as the motion­
less forms of the circling trees. It was the
loveliest stillness. It seemed to breathe—to
be conscious—to respirate, almost, in the
thoughtfulness of its quiet. You might have
fancied all nature in repose. That its
widely spread—searching activity was in sus­
pense.
A good third of the heavens was still palely
though rosily illuminated with the reflection
of the now long-departed sun. The broad
even reflection was neither red, nor yellow,
143
« of water
I the tower-
a obscurity
lt» or some
sinters, in
twilights,
may be,
lguishing
of struc-
rhieh in
ia g or
maness
•iality
ight,
am i
“g
%
THE SHIP OF CLASS.
nor lucent blue; but a mixture of all the three
colours, as if liquid lights, if there could be
such things, of various tints had flowed into
one another and united to where the lustrous
red predominated stretching along the horizon.
Dark crowded objects rose distinct and
awful below, aud the deep dark blue asserted
its prerogative above.
The rest ofthe sky was of a placid purple—
a very world for Milton’s Penseroso, or mild
Urania with her dovelike upturned eyes,
clothed in the holy garb of contemplation and
diademed with stars. The stars were indeed
slowly—very slowly, with their long, straight,
tiny rays, timidly and yet earnestly tharpening
Into existence, as if they were the waking eyes
of the expanse; the nightly outguard of the
frontiers of heaven with their thousand beacon
fires lighted; or the.glittering population of
the azure fields of the night air.
Phroditis’ window looked down upon the
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 143
ancient shipyard, where the slips of water
gleamed, and all remote objects, and the tower­
ing buildingsintermingled in dubious obscurity
like the chmro ’scuro of a Rembrandt, or some
of the oldest of the old Spanish painters, in
whose umber shadows and dusky twilights,
fiat, even, and uniform as the tint may be,
you are deceived into gradually distinguishing
unsubstantial and incoherent shapes of struc­
tures and representations of objects, which in
their uncertainty might be anything or
nothing. In fact, in the very picturequeness
of the doubtfulness and immateriality
and uncertainty of this southern twilight,
filling and penetrating into the depths and
closing up into the corners of the shipbuilding
domain, you might have laid out, and arranged,
and pictured to yourself a whole region of
things, and persuaded your readily credulous
imagination that there had been, and was still
going on an actual wreathing into forms and
embodiment of articulated shadows.
144 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
Gaunt, giantlike—nay awful, rose spire and
turret. Doors looked more than doors. Holes
looked dens. Every shadow quickened as if it
could breed its ghost. Out of the depth and
darkness below, rendered more curious from a
strange sort of blue glow which spread abroad,
you might have thought the moresco steeples,
and the fretted and crocketted pinnacles, were
happy in escaping into air and catching the
last waning light and a glimpse of pale unde­
cided mootishine, too grey for starlight, as it
was too watery and shimmeringly yellow for
moonlight.
Phroditis put her head out of window and
looked abroad, as if she desired to give herself
the sensation of being out in the open air, and
surrounded by these interesting sights, whils
she should not escape that reserve in remem
brance, and the comfortable conviction that-he
feet were within her own room.
“ Tis these beautiful sights which make
me feel more poignantly the being shut up
THE 8BIF Or GLASSl
. 145
here, cried Phroditia: “ but I acknowledge to
a certain sort of fear at this mysterious, nay
awful-looking twilight, for one may well call it
awful when my father keeps each hideous
ships in his yard, whose prows look like b o
many—I do not know what to style them.
Those figureheads are frightful things! They
grin and stare at you with unnecessary
and uncalled for pertinacity, and sometimes
look askance as if they were very devils ham­
mered out of wood—as if, spite of the leers
and smiles assiduously bestowed upon
them in liberal fellow spirit by the
more amiably tempered carvers, they could
not escape the original perversity of
their grain nor its occasionally demoniacal
twist I am like a princess of an old romance
planted down amidst monsters. All these
creatures overlook my walks, nay overlook my
looks; and they are glancing up at me now
with their sightless eyeballs. We are garri-
▼
OL. X
. H
C
M
.
TUB SHIP OF GLASS,
soned with a wooden battalion packed from
every age and all the kingdoms which
have existed since the creation of the world.
And this wooden population is branded with
my father’s mark, and claimed to himselfas his
handywork and the production of his genius,
and as Neptune’s children, christened with a
fiery christening into their watery life. How
ealmly the stars shine down on all this trum­
pery ! and there is the broad round moon in
her yellow illumination, sad as the veiled
mourner by the marble urn, when the low
wind alone speaketh for the lonely dead, and
watching life becometh as living death. Pale
and wide, a sphere of watery light, she arises
over the dark towers and ancient tops
of the distant buildings, and will soon glean
in the ghastly faces of our wooden sentinels..
One; two; three; four s five face her. They
will see her mount into the thin blue air, the
one wakeful eye of the silent night; and fiur
off aill the thousand stars bum, the scattered
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 1 4 ?
light* of a right royal fleet, or lamps to mark'
the tracks and pilot the passage of the sea of
air!”
“ Sorely, Phroditis, you cannot want those
easements open,” cried Castilda, with Borne
impatience. “ I assure you, night is not the
time for you to be gazing out, and
gratuitously making all sorts of silly observa­
tions upon the poor wooden faces of your
father’s figureheads. Who could see, except
yourself, all that nonsense you have been talk­
ing ip a fine twilight? And besides I cannot
fancy, nor can I approve of all those strange
speculations you have been hazarding on the
carted figures which grow up out of the stemh
of the Senhor Klypp’s argosies. To pat such
astring of mysterious and objectionable con­
templations upon stocks and stones and sense­
lessshapes into language, has a certain sort of
sinister and dark power; and 1 am sure Father
Bonifacio would not like that you should be
the one to too rashly handle edge-tools, which
a 3
THE SHIP or GLASS.
are words even In the hands of foolhardy and
inexperienced young people. So if you will
not draw your head inside and shot up the
lattices, I must really rise; and though it is
putting me greatly out of my way, I must go
away into my own chamber and say my
evening service to myself.”
“ Well, if you prefer it,” said Phroditis,
returning into the apartment, but without
closing the windows, “ go by all means; and
when 1 am tired of looking out into the yard
and the moon has fairly risen, and the
last gleam of twilight has faded into that
void which has swallowed up so many twilights,
why, I will do as you. So acUat, dear Castilda 1
and a good supper to you.”
“ Adim, Senhora 1
” answered Oastilda; and
rising and gaping, Castilda retired towards the
door, opening which she let heraelf out and
left Phroditis alone, or with the stars for com­
pany.
And sometimes do we not find the stars the
THE 8Uir or GI.A88. 149
belt of company ? and such companionship as
we would not forego or abandon for the
finest society which this glittering and showy,'
bat empty and disappointing world can
affordns?
150 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
CHAPTER X.
SOLITUDE.
* He whohath loved not, here would learn that love
And make his heart a spirit; he who knows
That tender mystery, will love the more,
For this is Love’s recess.
He grows
Into a boundless blessing, which may vie
With the immortal lights, in its eternity.”
Childt H arolds Pilgrimage.
“ These are mypleasures, and to be alone.”
Byron.
There is sometimes a relief is hearing a door
shat and being left alone. It seems as if you
TlBE SHIP OT Gt,A8$. lol
'wereonce more abandoned to your own court;
that the busy and inquisitive were removed
and that you could look around you unde­
terred in the vagrancies of your thought by
observant eyes, and the consciousness of inde­
pendent and unaccording motions around.
The mind is -expansive when left to its own
play,and not repelled and cast back upon itself
by the recollection that it is to be accommo­
dated to the unknown, and unfathomed, and
uncertain whims and commonplace caprices,
which are every second in action or
expectation, when there is living, and
breathing, and human companionship, or rather
watch.
It is this ill-assorted communication, or
rather want of communication, which becomes
so burthensome. That sense that it is ex­
pected and necessary for you to
eontroul yourself, and not merely express
yourself but also think “ by the card.”
That regularity which you must prescribe for
152 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
your behaviour, and the precision which will
be needful to secure you in the conventional
path along which all who have the ticket of
leave to traverse the beaten walks of the world
permit themselves or love to move. When
submitting to this supervision—when so well
guarded with this visible sign of the real
and conformable, and probable sentinel
from tiie battalion of the jealously correct,
with this possible witness against you, you feel
contracted to the circle in which the proprie­
ties expected and exacted confine you, and
remain persuaded that thfi first duty of m u,
at least in such an artificial state, is to exist,
and that is all.
Your kingdom is then a kingdom of chairs
and tables, in which you become sensible of
the value of such articles of furniture, nor dare
or wish to exalt them, or, as in your then state
of mind you think, to pervert their intention
beyond their real solid honesty of usefulness
It
re SH
IP or GLASS. 163
mad unromantic plainness. Yon an enclosed
by four walls, and seem to perceive that it is
a wry comfortable boundary ; at all event*
safe from all delusions of fancy or assaults of
the mysterious, the sentimental and irregularly
exciting. You felicitate yourself on your
quietness, and feel the snugness, and above all
the convenience of the plain and natural,
in contradistinction to the dangerous intoxica­
tion iand expensive .because enervating and
spoiling luxuries of the fanciful and en­
thusiastic. Tending to this end, and greatly
assisting the placidity and composure which
supervene upon the subsiding waters when
the wind of the stirrings of our nature
withdraws, is the presence of tome one
with us. Though but an individual we
feel that we are in the face of the world, and
bound to regulate our behaviour by its judg­
ments of right and wrong—of the correct
and incorrect. But take away this look
out upon our minds, and the fetters so willingly
154 THE SHIP OV GLASS.
worn are suddenly found to encumber, and
we readily, and without thought about it throw
them aside to enjoy the exercise of our free
limbs. We then walk into new wisdom, but it
is the wisdom born of solitude.
Then indeed we gather heart and look about
us. The heart seems to revive—the eyes are
raised—there is returning animation, and
awaking interest in things mundane: and the
wavering and wandering scintillations, which
were every second becoming fewer, retrace lack
as lights. The sonl, sensible that the obser­
vants upon its house have betaken themselves
away, returns to its windows. Then comes the
flattering remembrance, that
“ In solitude, when weare least alone," .
W
e have travelled back again to our strength—
that we are no deposed kingg| treading over
the dust which we sure aware contains jewels,
though we dare not stop to look for them.
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 155
We are compelled b o longer to submit to the
principle that through our ears we must not
bear, nor through our eyes see, nor that we
must speak the words of our hearts. On the
contrary, our life begins, our guard is with*
drawn, and we may step up our throne and
call our court, which has only impatiently de­
ferred its homage until we should become free
men and therefore worth}- to receive its
tribute.
Belief like this was felt by Phroditis—
dreamer, enthusiast, visionary as she wac,
when the starched formal figure of her
matter-of-fact duenna, or abigail, we know
■ot which to style her, nor do we much care,
disappeared behind that happy door, which
seemed to close the quicker and with all the
greater alacrity that the personified propriety
was to be shut upon.
Phroditis’s r^gm seemed to become her.own
oncemore, and not the mere case for a wooden
dummy as Phroditis’s rather too vehement itn-
......i
1 5 6 TUB SHIP O f OLA6&
patience at ber half jouvemante and whole
companion petulantly denounced her. She
seemed to be restored suddenly to autho­
rity over the articles devoted to her use
and her ease, and released from the nega­
tive thraldom of having to hear, though she
never troubled herself to reply oftener than
her humour suited with an answer, all the insi­
pidities, and wearisome bewailments, fretful-
ness over trifles, and even good-natured though
idle and mistaken chat, poured out by the per­
severing Castilda.
Phroditis already looked about as if her
most active part of the day—at least as far ss
the exertion of the mind was concerned, was
coming.
•*Let me see. I cannot ait still,” thought,
m i almost said, Phroditis. “ Mow that that
tiresome old woman has taken herself of£ for
she is old, spite of all her et^savours to per­
suade me, and perhaps others with more earn­
estness, that she is a young woman spoiled by
ice.
n s SHIP o r GLAUS. 167
■offering or endurance, or what not, as they
all are, instead of years: now that mistress
Castilda has gone, let me consider what I can
best do. And that odious garden where no­
thing grows, or yard, or whatever my father
and his people call it! What is the use
of going out into it when I can see nothingbut
walls and the stars above me, which are cer­
tainly very pretty, but yet not all that I should
like to see. I declare I feel almost tempted to
make a solemn vow upon my pincushion that
1 will not again don my mantilla to go out into
it. I am sure I need not be so careful in hid­
ing my face when there is nothing but old bat­
tered images to look at me. Now first I will
have all my lights lighted; and then I must
take but one peep at the mirror, to see if this
m e agrees with my black hair ; but
what does it matter if it will when no one
looks at me b it the prim Castilda, who shuts
her eyes and yawns when 1 turn round to ask
bar her opinion, or my father, who says
tfHE SHIP Of GLASS.
*seventy-three,* if I put it to him whether he
does not like white better than black. I am
sure I ought to be considered an unhappy
young creature, when I have a father in black
buckram with an extinguisher upon his head,
end a guardian angel about me in the shape of
a rush candle, quite as white or, rather, yellow,
and as tall as a steeple with a cap like a holy
water bason.”
Pouting her lovely lip, which waB ripe and
as red as a polished cherry, Phroditis stepped
Up and down the rooma few turns, went to the
window, put both her little white bands upon
the window-sill, and lookedout.
But she soon returned with a look of weari­
ness, and sat down to a tapestry frame.
“ And here are all the stitches hanging out
just as I left them when I started up from my
frame, delighted at Castilda’s insidious propo- -
sal to go out and take the air—in the ship­
yard 1 Where are my needles ? I will
%-ork well for some time at this, until I render
fa s amp op g la s s . 159
the unfinished Bide something even. There is
Joseph’* coat of many colours has not half the
colours y et; and Rebecca’s robe seems as if a
slight acquaintance with the scissars would not
be amiss, as it looks rather ragged and trails
behind her. Jacob’s beard wants trimming;
and the sky calls aloud for the flying threads
to be taken out of it. Santa Maria 1 if I have
not forgotten the head of that sheep. And the
wolf in the background looks a little too much
as if he has been making a prize of it whilst
the heads of the others were turned, and is
slyly moving off. I must put in a little wool
and soften the sharpness and vicious angularity
of his physiognomy; and insinuate a
little more grief into the face of that man with
the indigo sheet upon him.”
So saying Phroditis took up her implements
- settled herself down in her seat—
and seemed
really as if she was disposed to recommence
her work in earnest, with her thoughts all in
it. Her eyes were tent in attention upon the
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
colours of her embroidery frame which glowed
in the strong yet soft light, and her mind
seemed suddenly to have become all red, blue
and green, and their shades, the varieties of
the silk, and the still more puzzling though
less brilliant differences of woollen. But
looking at her, and thinking of the tints
which were passing under her fingers, you
could not—nor would you if you could, have
been able to fancy them ordinary red, or
blue, or so forth, the colours that a heavy
mindless rustic might look at or any or­
dinary person, but on the contrary fiury
hues — strips of the rainbow, which had
been suddenly brought down to earth and
woven into the domesticities of household and
familiar life.
It would have been no easy task to have
guessed at all the thoughts, which at first may
be said to have passed, but then ran through
Phroditis’ head while she remained thus em­
ployed. In truth, she was very inconstant in
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 161
her thinkings; and, slier full twenty minutes
perhaps of sober, steady—nay, philosophic
thought, as she concluded—all of it tending
to improve her mind, and form her intellect,
and extract the full and fair share of useful­
ness out of the Senhors Castilda’s sage lesson*,
prudential maxims and general direction^ she
would be suddenly taken in hand against her
will, and notwithstanding her magnanimous
efforts to free herself, by some high-flown
romantic fancy, some whim, or wild wish, or
buoyant and heady train of thought, which
would fairly lift her out of herself. And it
would soar away sky high, an enormous dis­
tance from all the sobriety, and the formalities,
and all the unpretending safety and correctness
which ever kept aspiring spirit down.
Phroditis used always to be ashamed of
these wanderings, and lamented excessively
that there should be some deficiency, as she
imagined, which should prevent her maintaining
attention to graver subjects of thought. But
............
C
>
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
she was of a very rapid imagination, rendered
perhaps all the stronger by the worldly igno­
rance in which she was rigorously and relent­
lessly kept. It might not, absolutely, have
been difficult to persuade her of the most
extraordinary contradictions: that is, contra­
dictions to reality, but not of the truth of
things in themselves not correspondent.
Shq had a happy judgment, which saw, as
we might say, by its own light, as it was de­
barred from that to be supplied by stranger
experience. So intense was her desire to be­
lieve and credit out of the common track,
that there was no extreme, hardly, of conduct,
provided always it was graceful or enthusiastic,
or reconcilable to the all-pervading elegance
which filled lier mind, and which she fancied
must be of necessity as fully shared by others,
that you might not have persuaded her of. As
she was totally unacquainted with mean or low
motives or inferior inducements, and could not
reconcile their existence with her own free
*H B 881# O f 61L46S, 163
asd lofty inspirations, and events of her
experience, since she found nature ao noble
and her own feelings m impellant towards
the high and great, she imagined that the
W
orld must be a sort of paradise, in which
people lived, and moved, and acted, as if the
daysbefore sin destroyed the order, and concert,
and beauty, and elevation of being, were not
dready past,
Phroditia’lovely countenance, full ofheaven,
in which the rapid imaginings and tender
dreamsascended and chased each other as the
clonds of a rich and glowing sunset, was
a glass for innocence herself to have looked
in. In the soft voluptuous light of her now
dashing, now downcast eyes, a thousand loves
might have sprung. Warmed to life in the
sweetness and alluring placidity of her pre­
sence—fired to wildness in her smile and her
glanceoffascination. In the steady depth and
holy contemplation of her intent eyes, which
at other times possessed an inexhaustible trea-
THE SHIP Of O
X
.A
38.
sure of tenderness, when their lull, cold, col­
lected meaning rested upon you; and in
the mortifying sense of the might of her
haughty and removed beauty—its distance as
far as heaven from earth—its aspect all purity,
■II spirit—its separation, its hopeless excess of
elevation, a thousand desires and a thousand
dreams would have been chilled to death.
And yet they would have found a blessed
tomb and happy burial since they met
annihilation at her hands.
Phroditis’ face was a paradise, whose ex­
pressions and changeful witcheries were the
spirits to inhabit it. They would be all beau­
tiful, but the loveliest would come last.
And Phroditis’ heart was a treasure. Richer
was it than the land that ever adventurous
■hip in quest of left her native shore. Untold,
undreamt, unfathomable, were the extremities
of devotion—the height of enthusiasm of which
it was capable. All of beauty or grace; all of
THE SHIP OF OHA88. 165
tenderness and rapture, dwelt within, lived
within, clustered around and clung to it.
There was a perpetual sunshine of not the
presence, but the capability and susceptibilities
of love around it and upon it. Love lit his
choicest lights in her eyes.
If the altar of her heart lay as yet flameless
and solitary in the midst of its own beautiful
loveliness, it was only because though the cir­
cling wreaths did blush with their thou­
sand rosy blossoms, and the votive garlands,
heaped in their profusion and sinking in the
sweetness of their own odours, trailed around
it and along, and the freshest and rarest
offerings rose upon its top, that the sparklesa
torch lay crossing the golden base not in for­
getfulness but repose until that certain hand
guided by fate, should arrive to be stretched
forth and then to kindle a quenchless but
the holiest Are.
Oh! Phroditis’ love was as a stately temple
already springing into height, and breadth.
:iC3C3"i:?'!t:!:
166 THE SHIP OF GLA88.
and length, adorned with every gift, boasting
every glory in the resources of art, hung, and
twined, and spiring, a marvel and an
awe; extending wide and deep in the super­
natural splendour of its perspective, with the
soft blue plains afar, and the distant mountains
faint and dim in the strength of their own
beautj. Now still and echoless, it rears itself
a solid dream wrought whole and rich out of
the panorama of the spirit. Called it is into
existence by fairy spells; words breathed in
the witching night; thoughts burning for ex­
pression in the summer day; wrought stone by
stone, piled column by column out of the
mines known amongst the principalities of
the mind as revery, and hope and longing,
and the eager and gushing imagination,
best and latest dowry, with its countless
shades for people and colours for tribes.
Erect, majestic, wonderful in its symmetry and
its vastness, matchless in its magnificence, it
only awaits the warming, penetrating rays
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 167
of the rising sun at once to be turned to
gold.
Phroditis's mind, and heart, and soul, formed
and fashioned as they were for all the melting
tenderness of woman’s nature and her softest
capabilities, full of impassioned dreaming and
a world of those uncertain, hesitating, and con­
sciously cautious emotions which frequently
rise to a state of feeling equal to all extremi­
ties, powerful when it seems to be most power­
less, burning when it would appear to be slum­
bering over its unsuspected, unthought-of in­
tensity, might have been likened to a beau­
tiful and wonderful country which only wanted
to be inhabited. All her fine feelings, all that
groundwork of passion which should have
transformed her into a lively, active and im­
petuous type a.id votary of love, at present lay
waste, or expended and exhausted themselves
in aimles* luxuriance and indefinite
display. She was a perfect child of Na*
THE SHIT OF GLASS.
ture, whose very thoughts were colours from
her—whose every notion was a flower from her
garden. Her thoughts were reflections from
the changing expression of that one lovely,
placid face, whose happy, chaste glow and
spiritual radiance have converted the thick
stained lights of the material universe into
illumination clear as the eye of heaven, and
the palpabilities of dull, unrefined, undecorated
form and hard plasticity indeed to
" Somethingrich and strange !”
•THE SJBBr or M .AS8. m
CHAPTER XI.
MOW CUNIQUS 18 ENGAGED IN THE REDEMP­
TION OF HIS PROMISE. SOME OF HIS COGITA­
TIONS ON MIS SITUATION.
“ I’mcold—
I’m dark. 1’ye blown my fingerenumbered o’er
And o’er my steps-and knock’d my head against
Some fifty buttresses: and roused the rats
And bats in general insurrection, til
Their cursed pattering feet,and whirlingwings,
Leave me sauce hearing for anothersound.”
Werner.
“I do follow here in the chase, not like a hound
that hunts, but one that fillsupthecry.”
Shaketpeare.
W* must now return to Cunique, who is en­
gaged in the redemption of his promise to per*
T
O
IL
. I, i
170 TH U SHIP Of GLASS.
form the hard task declined by the vain glori­
ous and over confident tailor, the boastful
Pimpernella. Nor have we very far to trans­
port ourselves from the scene of our last chap­
ter and the chamber of the fair Phroditis, be­
fore we encounter our hero in rather close and
curious—and as far as Phroditis herself was
concerned, greatly as she was interested in the
fact, and much as the future modifications of
her fate depended on it, very unexpected
proximity to her. How near was he now to
the principal object of interest, always ex­
cepting the renowned and undiscovered island,
to the good people in general, and the inqui­
sitive class in particular, of the magnificent
town of Tafna-Khalifas on the Costadoro and
the extraordinary country of Altosierro.
Cunique was in the dark, and feeling his
way along by the wall in a bewilderment which
would have been ludicrous, had it not been for
the eventful nature of his errand, his generous
daring to save another, even the consequences of
tub snip or g la ss. m
his own folly, and the dangers which environed
him. These threatened limb and life from the
jealous vigilance and formidable anger of the
suspected and dreaded magician; nay, even
offered risk to the stability of his intellect and
the health of soul, since arrayed against him
were the unearthly powers of which it was sup­
posed the mechanician Klypp had the com­
mand, and the sort of visionary and terrible
servants that attended his pleasure, and
kept watch and ward over him and his man­
sion.
How Cunique got there, was a marvel which,
considering the intricacies about the old
building, and also taking into view bow
large it was, he was not prepared to solve him­
self. He could only be conscious of the fact,
as far as his judgment served him, that he was
there present in his own person ; but he pre­
served a very indistinct and shadowy remem­
brance of the process by which he arrived
there, and the succession of the metaphorical
13
THE 8UIP OF OLAS8.
as well as actual steps by which he had
mounted to the pleasant state of darkness,
doubt and difficulty in which be found
himself.
“ My life certainly has done'justice,”thought
he, “ to the predictions of that old vagrant
Egyptian whoforetold that I should have a s irt
of piebald life: chequered good and evil, black
■nd white, like a chess-board; with so many
events, and so many escapes, and so many
wondrous leapings, and runnings, and occa­
sional screwings of myself, and embar­
rassments, that I should resemble contin­
ually a man caught in a net. I suppose
I amin such a net now, and striving to extri­
cate myself The latter I am, there is no doubt
of How I got here I cannot tell I Whether
I am in heaven, or earth, oi under the earth,
ought puzzle sharper brains and more ingenuity
in disentangling, and fingers of greater nimble­
ness and dexterity at drawing straight than
Cunique the Roarer could ever boast. Dark-
i.: il'lt
TUB SHIP QT GLASS. m
sese is round me. I feel a floor under my feet—
of wood, 1 suppose—but I may be deceived in
that, and it may be stone; although wood is
more likely, as I came up a staircase and am
now in a gallery, I think. East, west, north,
south, every point of the heavens seems to
have changed place. I might fancy myself a
thing spawned of this darkness—a walking
error, -dark enough prudence will bear me wit"
ness—• locomotive mistake, to whom, or to
which, (for in this blaokneaa 1 cannot settle the
question whether I am entitled to assume
the dignity of pronoun, or should aban­
don myself as a very unsound substantive)
exactness of place was of very little moment.
Truly, 1 might remain content and comfortable
with the aseuranoe that 1 was a yard-and-a-half
square of darkness, and needing no light,
were I not contradicted—thrown back into the
world by all this silk bravery. Very pretty
to have disguised myself thus handsomely to
waste all my splendour upon a dark passage;
with an ultimate hope only of by-and-bye
encountering some tasteful owl, that denied
all show and any brightness in his own
plumage, knows yet how to estimate and ap­
preciate it in other stray birds. Fool so to
deceive myself 1and to imagine because I so
cleverly vaulted, favoured by the night and a
moon labouring through a world of clouds,
also by the ins and outs, the comers and
squares, and buttresses, and angles pro-
traded, and all the other shapeless and pur­
poseless heapings and pilings of this quaint
old palace of plank —this tumbledown castle
of nails and knees, riba and rope s because I
stepped lightly enough over the wall, and
came down on my feet like the great enemy
of mankind alighting in the Garden of Eden,
I was to suppose that I could win my way to
the tanctum sanctorum; the jewel casket which
is to contain this precious gem set in gold,
with such a superabundance of magic chasing.
Now the clubs of all her father’s fiends, I
■ME SHIP OP GLASS. 1?5
W ill not say beat me to the ground, for that
would be an unholy and ominous aspiration
which I would rather avoid in the present
posture of my affairs: let all the wizard
dubs, wielded by unseen hands, which ever
started at old Klypp’s most potent spell,
hammer away at his finest model of a ship
until it shall be reduced to sawdust, if I ever
undertake such a hopeless task, and such an
unproductive and unsatisfactory feat again!
But 1 have promised j and Cunique's word, at
any cost, andat ail risks, must be redeemed. I
must see this famous Phroditis, if I hunt
about these holes and corners for a twelve-
month. What if her father, being a magician
as he is, should by his prescience foresee I am
coming, and lock her up or put her out of
the way somehow? I cannot try all his
doors and rattle the handles until I have
stumbled npon the right apartment. Besides,
he might change her ; alter her bodily pre­
sence on purpose to delude me; extinguish her
3C
176 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
beauty, and then how should I know her ? I
might pass by a high-backed chair, little dream­
ing that it was she. She might be a short gob­
let, or a black cat, or Proteus only knows what,
could I see any of them, and that is an impor­
tant and not to be forgotten or lostsight of con­
sideration. I might be feeling the very object
of my visit to this den of terrors, and nothing
suspect. 1 might walk by with all the self
satisfied, ridiculously confident indifference
in the world:—nay, bear a bird sing, without
surmising that it was the song of the enchanted
Phroditia I was listening to.
THE SHIP QP GU4SB. 177
CHAPTER XII.
CLN1QUE DISCOVERS PHRODITI8.
“ A lordly and a lofty room,
Part lighted by a lamp with silver beam,
Placed by a couch ofAgra’s silkenloom,
And part by moonshine pale, and part was hid in
gloom.
Fair all the pageant—but how passing fair
The slender form which lay on couch of Ind !
O’er her white bosom strayed her hazel hair,
Pale her dear cheek, as if for love she pined :
All in her night-robe loose, she lay reclined.”
Lay of ike La*t Miiutvd.
C unique, still uncertain o f where he was
going, put himself in motion towards the end
i 5
«
1)1! ji: 1... .
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
of the passage. Wandering about without di­
rection, and with no knowledge of where his
steps were leading him, he yet had, or seemed
to have, some sort of imagination that he was
not very far from the object of his search:
that he was in the neighbourhood of that
“ cynosure of neighbouring eyes,” to satisfy
his judgment of whose beauty, and perform
what he had solemnly undertaken, he had
penetrated and persevered thus far.
Before him now he was able to perceive a
glimmering light, which diffused a mild and
gentle radiance upon some forms which resem­
bled columns. On a nearer approach be found
himself in a circular sort of vestibule, with
four doors round it, or what he supposed to be
doors, with dark draperies hanging before
them, and with horseshoe architraves of rich
design in the regular Moorish taste.
A profound silence reigned around. Every­
thing waa motionless, and not a fold of the
draperies moved. All that he could distinguish
THJ3 SIIP OF GLASS. 179
on listening intently was a low subdued kind
of ticking. This he had no great difficulty in
concluding proceeded from a clockj and as lie
thought it not unlikely that the object of his
search might be to be found in its vicinity, he
cautiously proceeded towards that door from
beyond which the sound seemed to issue.
Cunique applied his ear to the chink, but
could hear nothing beyond the low regular
tick of the dock, which was in fact the curious
one in Phroditis’ apartment. Grown bolder
by the perfect absence of all other sound, Cli­
nique drew himself up as if relieved, though
a certaiu amount of curiosity and excitement:
gathered in his eyes. He thought that it was
possible that nobody might be in the room,
and that if he opened the door and looked in,
it would not much signify, and yet he though
there might.
Gathering courage, for there was something
awing in the perfect quiet aud yet the recol­
lection that it was impossible he could be very
180 TUB SffltiP or GtABS,
far'off some of the inhabitants of the bonne,
Cunique laid his hand softly to the handle of
the door: and after a few moments’ pause
upon it, as if he were in debate in his mind,
suddenly withdrew it, or lightly shook it off
as if it were hot.
With his senses keenly alive, and an atten­
tion which was almost painful, drawing his
breath regularly and with the utmost quietude,
and treading on tip-toe,
“ So that the blind mole couldnot hear him,”
he left the door, but extended one hand me-
ehanioally towards it as if he would keep it
shut to prevent its being suddenly opened
from witliiuside and a surprise offered him.
He walked with the utmost softness some
puces down the gallery, and listened. Nothing
stirred. Then he returned; and looking at
the lamp which burned so quietly, and yet as
he could have fancied consciously, a notion at
THE SHIP OP OLA88. 181
which he smiled passed through his mind. It
was that the lamp, if sensible, might have
knowledge of all that transpired in the house,
andthat there was the power in it as he looked
at it to inform him of what he so desired to
know, secretly and apart, as it were, without
breaking confidence.
There is certainly a strange feeling in being
ina lighted vestibule all in silence in a house
of which you are ignorant, and where you
have no business, listening for nothing, and
withthe recollection that there must be people
about, to whom, if you were stumbled upon,
you would take just such sudden and unex­
pected effect as an apparition,
Cuoique, quite in doubt, and feelingjust like
a knight of romance in an old enchanted
castle expecting an adventure at any effort in
a fresh direction, walked back to the door;
and this time, determining to net boldly,
compressed his lips, ns all people do when they
THE SHIP Of CLASS.
are about to tax themselves to anything, and
laid his hand firmly upon the handle which
at his previous attempts had seemedso difficult
to clasp.
He turned it softly—most slowly in his
hand, though it seemed to circle easily and
slipperingly enough, and then he felt the sen­
sation in his fingers’ end of having the power
to push open or swing to any distance he might
like this inviting but mysterious door. How­
ever he did not go*rashly to work, and only set
it, as it is called, ajar, amusing himself as he
did so in perceiving a single straight thin line
of light. This mysterious strip of light from
withinside was bright, though unsatisfactory,
tantalising and suggestive enough, and Cuni-
que felt half afraid of his next step, lest any­
body should be in the room and the movement
of the door might catch the eye.
He waited a few moments gazing at the
chink, in a sort of dreading expectation, as if
.C
M
,
TUB SHIP OF GLASS. 183
he should hear somebody rise all at once and
then steps across the room, and that the door
should be suddenly opened, and be as sud­
denly disclosed. And at this time he heard
the ticking of the clock distinctly enough.
But nothing stirred. Now concluding that he
had made a mistake, and there really was no
one in the room, and that there was much less
to fear if anything, he permitted the door to
slip forward to greater width. As it slowly
opened, were disclosed to view first the antique
carved wood-workj then the arabesques; then
the silver moulding; and lastly some imple­
ments for work and other little matters
which hinted that the chamber was the haunt
of a female.
“ I’m right,” thought Cunique, as his heart
gave a sudden leap, and he could almost be
said to have felt that his eyes sparkled.
The other side of the room as he glanced in,
from the way he was hampered in his move­
ments, looked half a mile off, so distant in his
THE SHIP OF Q1.ASB.
possibility or practicability of arriving at it
did it seem. The space over the floor looked
a voyage; so Cunique recalled his eyes to his
own neighbourhood, and with a sensation of
pleasure, and as if he could see a snug and
comfortable retreat, nay, a home, he detected
a most opportune curtain close to him, and at
no farther space removed than the side of the
door. The friendly folds of the curtain seemed
to stand out as if kindly inviting him behind
their protection. But how to get there, was
the question, should there be a “ wide awake ”
person in the apartment.
Cunique, however, after a little while, hear­
ing nothing stir, put one hand to -the edge
of the curtain, and under favour of the
door passed himself insinuatingly behind it.
As he did this, though he managed it as ad­
roitly as possibly, he could not prevent some
unfortunate shaking of the curtain, and a slight
rustle, which went to his heart, and which
nobody could appreciate but any one who
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 185
happens to have been in the like situation,
and felt as if they were trembling on the verge
of a similar discovery. He felt just like a man
on the perpendicularly sloping -face of the
summit of ahigh cliff, with fingers caught round
a knot of grass, perhaps the sea murmuring,
from its vast diatanoe, under a cloud below,
and with the creeping, giddy sensation of his
weight, as if he was suddenly grown stone
instead of flesh, whose only safety depends on
a strained tuft of grass and the crumbling
earth about its root.
Cunique oontrived to place his eye just
behind the junction of two draperies, and his
perseverance was rewarded by the sight not
only of Phroditis’ chamber, such as we have
described it, but of Phroditis herself, who had
now grown tired of her work, and also ap­
parently of book and everything else, for she
was reclining on her cushions with her eyes
dosed, her hair dependant, and one fair hand
with its taper fingers white as snow, and blaz-
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
ing with jewels lightly laid upon her gently
heaving bosom. He might justly have ex-
♦
claimed in the words of Iaohimo, that “ Italian
lend,” who seems a man of taste,
“ Cytherea!
How bravely thou becom’st thy couch I fresh lily!
And whiter than the snow. That I might touch,
But kiss; one kiss. Rubies unparagoned I
How dearly they do’t.”
Cnnique truly was struck dumb. He had
never seen so beautiful a creature in his life—
never had such a form, such a face, visited his
wildest dreams, and they had been wild
enough. With intent eyes he gazed with rap­
ture on that lovely form as it lay extended in
repose upon her crimson cushions, like a single
sweet lily on a heap of roses.
A multitude of new and thrilling, and as
it seemed to him very strange sensations came
upon him. He felt change come over him;
as if what he saw was the work of
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 18?
enchantment, for he thought it impossibly
beautiful for reality. He could have fancied
that he had climbed to heaven, and with pro­
fane eyes was gazing on an angeL As if he
had suddenly stumbled upon a sleeping fury,
nestled amidst tall flowers whose colours were
of more than mortal brightness, and canopied
with a thousand interweaving branches—as if
spreading above might be the sylvan frame­
work of a roof of reticulating twigs and
sinuous arm8, sheathed and smothered with
sheaves o f leaves, each sta n d in g fixed and
bright in the magic atmosphere like a glowing
emerald in the thick yellow flames and liquid
gold o f a blaring su n set.
H e rich chamber looked a strange place
now, aa if it could not be of earth, nor belong
to it, nor be on it. It was as a dream wrought
to daylight, and the peerless shape in the midst
the point round which the radiations had
strengthened and settled, and worked out of
ice.
Tims SHIP OP OLASS.
188
their shadowy gleam and unsubstantial ne­
bulosity in to brightness and b o dy.
Cunique could hardly reconcile with the
right which h e saw his last day just passed.
It seemed as if h e bud arrived is some
new region, o f w hich at some strange decant­
ing time he m ig h t have caught a something of
a glimpse, but th e transition from his remein-
branoes of the doll matter of fact, “ of the
earth earthy ” day he badjust spent, to the daz­
zling, the bewildering, the entirely novel reve­
lation which beset his vision—altogether
confounded him, seemed so sudden ami
unexpected, so inconsequential in facf, that it
looked like magic.
It was as if there came upon him a sort ot
shame at the kind of character he was support­
ing. A regret and vexation, coupled with
risin g pride, and an anxiety to sta n d fo rw ard
as himself, an d in the presence o f beauty like
this to cease to take advantage o f concealment
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 189
in his contemplation, or to abuse the consci­
ousness that the lovely figure before him must
have that she was alone and sacred from pry­
ing eyes, took possession of his mind. Then
a bitter feeling seemed to come upon his heart
which melted into tenderness as he convinced
himself of the loveliness of this fairest of
Eve's daughters, and then, casting back his
glance, recurred to his own uuworthiness.
He felt mean and pitiful, and very strange to
say tears sprung to his eyes: it would have
been an odd effect to ascribe to the revelation
of beauty, but Cunique’sfancy was impressed
unaccountably, and the next moment his eyes
darted light, and his lofty brow contracted
for an instant with high pride and determina­
tion.
He was restless and anxions now, though
the step was very hazardous and sure to startle
if not alarm Phroditis, whoof all things in the
world could not have fancied a stranger and a
youth uuebasCuniqtwwas nearher, to make his
190 THE SHIP OP SLABS.
presence visible, and, during everything, to
epesk to her. Indeed had be been in a situa­
tion to reflect quietly, which he was not, he
would have seen that some communication
with her was necessary to his plan. But Cu-
nique did not reflect at all. His plan, his
promise, his comrades, everything seemed ab­
stracted from him. He only was a something
in the room with Phroditis; and whether he
sawher with his eyes, or bysomestrange physi­
ological or physchological perception—
whether
he was not a piece of furniture, he would
have been puzzled to say, so was he engrossed,
so entirely taken up and all his sensations ab­
sorbed by a something, which was hardly a
sense, that he was gazing at the most beautiful
creature be had ever beheld.
It seemed a sin to stir. He was half
afraid that a movement — a breath would
break the spelL Nay, the fancy oc­
curred to him that even by admitting an in­
stant’s change of thought the whole scene.
THE SHIT OF GLASS. 191
beauty and all, might waver and become in­
distinct, if he did not combat and persevere
until he had driven out the invading idea, and,
insupportable recollection! perhaps altogether
disappear. He felt a feverish anxiety—an
eager, spurring, covetous desire to fix this
vision for ever, and he longed—madly longed
for some words of might, some potent spell
which might force it into actual, palpable
truth, so that he might be relieved of that
great dread that it should escape him.
Time however was precious. Ashamed
of the motives which had drawn him there,
and struck dumb by the result—blessing bis
fate a thousand times for the lucky accident, he
silently Btepped one short pace behind the
drapery, and cast about in his mind for the beat
means of preparing the maiden for the intro­
duction of himself.
Perplexed and excited as he was be could
think of no expedient, or such only occurred
TI1B SHIP 0 7 GLASS.
to him as were disadvantageous, or only prac­
ticable with some sacrifice which he desired
not to make. At last he reached out bis hand
in a sort of despair, and a determination to
abide results whatever they might be, and to
follow on as he best might. Pausing a
moment, at last he extended his hand behind
the door, which was slightly open, and gave a
knock upon it as if of somebody outside the
room and asking permission to enter.
From bis concealment he \\atched its effect
upon Phroditis. She started up from her re­
clining position, and was for a moment in a
state of mute surprise. This might have
been somewhat owing to the knock being
uncertain and irregular—a diffused sort of
knock, which betrayed trembling fingers; and
Phroditis knew of nobody who was likely to
so approach her, or would have occasion to
announce their neighbourhood with such eo-
oentricity of fear. Nay die could pretty well
• m Bmp OP OLA88. 193
calcoltie the knocks of all her visitors, and
thiswas a strange one. The telegraph pre~
testeda figure which was not to be found in
herkey-book of signals.
He pause was only that of a moment; and
Fhroditis said “ come in” in perhaps rather a
higher key than would have been consequent
upona freedom from surprise, and at the same
tim
eperhaps from timidity.
Ctmique’s situation at this “ come in” was
certainly rather peculiar, and excessively em-
tanasing. What to do he did not know:
whether to walk oflf and betake himself out of
thehouse as fast as possible, never to see this
eacbantreas again but to dream for ever after
of her; or whether to walk in mechanically
sodwithout a thought about it, and let fate
for him, sinoe he felt that he had not
the power of a word or scarcely an idea.
Without doubt Cunique bad chosen the
drollest mode to introduce himself which
ever entered into the brain of man; but he
vou i. &
{ :n ;;j <
THE 6HIF OF GLASS.
thought that he was already so very far gone
in Ms task, that *
*returning was as tedious,”
nay as impossible, as going on. Besides be was
courageous enough 5 though the greatest cou­
rage will often fail where a woman is con­
cerned.
It is our private and particular opinion,
and we do not ray that it may not be
shared by others who have accustomed them­
selves to look a little more deeply than usual
into the phenomena of feeling, and the peculiar
and all-powerful influence which the presence
of woman asserts, more particularly over the
refined and high-minded, and those of the true
nobility of mind, that under some circum­
stances it would challenge more courage to
address a female than to storm n fortress.
As it was Cunique could not help himself;
and nervously expecting the effect the sight
of him would have upon Phroditis; very much
like a cowardly spirit compelled to walk his
•
.CM
THE SHIP OP GLASS, 195
round in the haunts, but dreading of all things
the eye of mortal, he poshed open the door,
and at the same time put back the drapery and
stepped forward into the room, making it so
appear that it would hare been difficult to as­
cribe his entrance to the ordinary access to
the room or from the door, or from behind
the draperies.
Phroditia of course screamed when she saw
him, saysthe reader. No, indeed, she did not;
the effect ofhis appearancewas striking enough
upon her; but she did not ory out or utter
a sound. In fact she did not change her
position. All she did was to open her eyes
wide and stare at Cunique as if he had
been a picture stepped down from its frame.
It really may be matter for guess whether she
did not at first sight Bet him down for an
automaton image, sent up as a surprise by
her father; except .that second thoughts as­
sured he would not have been so indiscreet
and cruel, and so she dismissed the fancy with
k 3
■
..-c
1 9 6 THE SHIP O
F G
LASS.
a coolness which did wonderful credit to her
nerves.
But there is sometimes an actually fortifying
and strengthening quality in astonishment. At
the sudden display of somethimg sounaccount­
able that we cannot understand and credit it,
there is an arrest of the sensations, fixing of
the faculties, but no fear. It is revealed
suddenly as an object which our eyes would
seem to shew is there, though we at the same
moment see in our minds, nay we feel all over
us that the thing ought not to be. We have
been so often cheated with shadows—so many
times have images been presented to us which
shifting of the light or readjustment of our
eyesight from its momentary derangement
have corrected—so in some moods have we
confounded and intermingled things seen “ in
the mind’s eye” with objects corporeal, and so
in the mystic operations of revery and deep,
settl d, and settling down thought have
they been forced together, that we are
THE SHIP Of GLASS. 197
from experience very naturally distrustful.
The mind of itself is but of gradual grasp,
—
can apply itself only to one object at one
time. Impressions must be piled before we
can deduce, as a spark, meaning from them.
And then has that meaning to be reconciled
in bodily objects to the historical register of
our senses. Violation of nature is a shock;—
violation of expectation and probability one
ofsmaller force.
While weare engaged in dissociatingand ana­
lysing to build up our idea, the mind isoccupied,
but intent on its own task, and reserving its
judgment, it is not fear that occupies it. It is
only when we become convinced that the thing
shouldnotbe—
thatthereissomeinfraction of ne­
cessityimplying menace and danger; that some­
thing is discovered which we cannot account
for, and that in its unknown depth, because we
have no light to guide us in its explora­
tion, there may be, since we cannot feel
to the contrary, all that may be hurtful.
T i l SHIP OP GLASS.
nay, as we are not limited, an universe of
unwelcome possibilities—it is only when thus
the edifice of thought is constructed—built
completely up and crowned, that we see it has
no business in the place we perceive it, and
therefore danger must follow its presence.
Phroditis remained looking at Cunique in
astonishment so long, and be on the other
side with no less steadfastness maintained his
gaze upon her, that the old dock which Cupid
was industriously occupied in holding up
over his head, remained the only voice and only
tangible and palpable communication between
them. Its tick, tick, seemed the click of the
screw-barrel which was mechanically but cor­
rectly turning the scenes changing with each
catch Of the other’s mind.
Phroditis, like Miranda, to whom in her
solitude, and the fact of her never having
seen any specimen of mankind scarcely, but
her father, she bore a strong resemblance,
might have exclaimed with delight, and in the
THE SHIP OP G
LA
SS. 1 9 9
words of her sister beauty of the enchanted
island, when looking up in answer to the
amused glance of pleased forethought of what
must naturally come after, and admiring and
tender love of her wizard father,
“ The fringed curtains of thine eyes advance
And aay, what thou see’st yond—
What is't—a spirit 1
Lord, how it looks about I Believe me, Sir,
It carries a brave fo rm B u t ’tis a spirit.
I might Him
A thing divine; for nothing natural
I ever saw so noble.
There’s nothing ill can dwell in such a temple :
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
Good things will strive to dwell with’t.
This is the third man that e’er 1saw j the first
That e’er I sigh’d for : pity move my father
To be inclined my way."
Cunlque would at present have done justice
to the flattering observation of even a Miranda
herself. The tailor, Pimpemella, impelled not
only by gratitude, of which we are not un-
o o
willing to ascribe him a due share, hut per-*
haps at the same time a not unequal amount
of content and satisfactiou at his own escape
through the instrumentality of his new friend
and protector, had been as good as his word,
and had turned Cunique out from under his
hands as brave and gallant a figure as ever
stept in lordly hall or mounted a destrier.
Cunique’s fine yet slender form was dis­
played to the utmost advantage in the really
elegant and recherche costume with which he
was now provided. There mingled in his
attire a seductively wild air. No harsh lines
met the eye, but all was graceful and flowing.
His habiliments fitted faultlessly, according
with all the curves of his figure; and an air
of the spirituel and fantastic, just slight enough
to add a high tinge of romance, and impart
a character of wildness to his appearance, and
keeping carefully within the limits of the de­
licate and attractively eccentric, was infused.
He might have been a Prince of Elfland, a
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 201
Knight of Bom&nce supernaturally gifted,
or some visionary form known only to the
glittering fancies of the Fabliaux, or to be
found in Praoenqallay, Such a form might
havestood forward out ofthe fancifully lighted
recollections of legendary lore, or been found
in the speculative dreams, and absorbing and
beautiful reveries of poetry.
He wore a short frock of blue velvet, tight
to the body, with a trimming of deep gold,
and broad gold bands passing overhis shoulders
and meeting in a point in his waist. The lower
edge of the gold band which ornamented the
skirt of his upper garment was profusely de­
corated with gold pendants. Tight-fitting
hose covered his legs, and shoes with silver
clasps defended his feet A belt of gold cinc­
tured his waist, from which depended his long
rapier blade in his own scabbard of parch­
ment. A sash of snowy silk, embroidered with
a red cross, passed athwart Ms body, and was
tied in a careless knotbehind. His sleeves were
K 5
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
long, and slashed up to the elbow; and a num­
ber of trembling tags shook and glittered at
their laced edges.
He wore bis long hair arranged with a
species of studied carelessness; and on his
head was a small black velvet cap, with a long
red feather placed straight up, and continually
nodding and quivering.
Altogether, he presented as gallant and
handsome an exterior as any woman on the
right side of forty could have desired to be­
hold. And in such guise did he introduce
himself to the fair Fhroditis.
THB im r Of GLASS. 203
CHAPTEB, X III.
A SCENE BETWEEN TWO LOVERS.
“ And now, fair dames, methinks I see
You listen to my minstrelsy:
Your waving locks ye backward throw.
And sidelong bend your necks of snow :
Ye ween to hear a melting tale
Of two true lovers in a dale ;
And how the knight, with tender fire.
To paint his faithful passion strove.
Swore, he might at her feet expire.
But never, never cease to love j
And how she blushed, and how she sighed,
And, half-consenting, half-denied,
And said, that she would die a maid.”
Lay of the Latt Mimird.
CtraiWE, as was quite correct, was the first to
break the silence which reigned, nnd his first'
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
actually distinct impression, at least of reality
and life and the things of this world,
was that his voice sounded as it had never
sounded before. There, in that room, and
above all in that presence, it seemed as if it
didnot belong to him, but that it had somehow
come to him with his dress, with which latter,
however, he felt on much easier and self-
oblivious terms.
His tones were at first low, and they trem­
bled. But gradually a strength seemed to
come to him, and he could speak firmly.
“ Lady, your eyes tell me a tale of susprise
of much higher intensity than I might gather
from your lips, even should you open them to
question the apparition before you as to the
place from which he came, and the meaning
of his being here. Scarcely should 1 be able
to afford you a rational answer, seeing that I
am yet undecided whether I am in a fairy-
palace and the victim of enchantment,
therefore to be pitied, or living and breathing,
b
yGoogle
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 205
and one that might answer to his own
name.”
Cunique’s voice seemed bo natural and was
bo soft, and his expressions were so mild and
inoffensive, that a good share of Phroditis’ fear
evaporated. She gave up suddenly the notion
that it was some visitant from the world of
shadows, or rather the idea took itself away
from her.
But a new and wonderful leaf seemed sud­
denly turned over in her history. She was so
much puzzled and bewildered with her novel
sensations, that although her eyes became
fixedly brilliant, her face grew pale as mar­
ble.
A moment after, a spot of pink, about the
size and of the tint of the moBt delicate rose­
bud, shone in her cheek—her bosom heaved—
she clasped her hands unconsciously together,
and cast her eyes to the ground.
She felt that she should say something—
that a word ought to be spoken—it did not
206 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
much matter what—that the very walls were
asking it of her; but beyond the painfully
acute sensation that she should open her lips
and speak, nothing would come to her mind.
A pause ensued.—A most singular one.
Cunique was looking intently, but with the
respect with which he might have regarded an
angel, in the face of the witching inhabitant
of this mysterious chamber.
He seemed to feel it a profanation to break
with coarse words the delicious silence of the
room, hallowed as it was by her presence. But
a few moments after, it occurred to him that
something at least murmuringly said might not
be inappropriate, nor sound inconsistent, though
he feared that if he let fall a word, the lady of
the scene might start up and fly, and that he
should himself be the cause that he should
never see her more.
“ If it be true that my presence surprises
you, so that alarm—but how should it be other­
wise, sweet lady, for they say that you are not
vGoogle
THE SHIP OF SLAB?. 207
accustomed to the world’s commonest present­
ment*. That you live in it as if not being of it.
And what have you in accordance—what is
there In that air and face, which should
claim kindred with the rough common­
places, the weariness and idle vanity, the
emptiness and ignorance, the coarseness and
earthiness of the world I To it you would be
as a spot of light in an universe of darkness.
Oh! I feel as if I were now—now in a dream,
and had left the world behind me. And fain
would 1 for ever gaze on thee, asking no other
pleasure—no other employment than ever to be
in that same room which has contained thee,
even though thou should’st be withdrawn from
my sight for ever. Could I have dreamt that
in this one wide world dwelt that which should
shoot to the heart of Cunique pain like
this at the lowness of its lot!—shame and con­
tempt—such contempt at all which might have
formed objects of desire, of ambition and
struggling!—no longer lights to have incited
2 j8 THE SHIP OF GLAM.
him on, even had his steps not strayedfar—far
away fromthebeaten tracks which shouldintro­
duce to such, but pallid sparks birthed in the
blotted fogs of seething marshes, and glim-
meringly drooping over that which at once
produced them and is destined to be their
grave. I may offend thee with my presence.
Thou must be astonished to see me here. Ask
as many questions as shall seem fit unto thee,
and 1 will reply as if I were indeed questioned
by one of Heaven’s ministers j—one to whom
the thoughts of my heart must be as evident
as the words with which I might essay to invest
them. Language fails me when I most need
it. In one word, and I may defeat myself in
the intensity of my desire to strengthen it with
the fullest force of persuasion, do not fear me!
for if you can form to yourself the lighest
wish that I should depart, so instantly am 1
prepared to obey—so would I exhibit the com­
mand a glance of that eye could exert, that
ran ssi* of Qtjua. 205
I could throw myself readily—cheerfully from
the topmost height of your loftiest tower, and
only bless those hard stones, which should
receive me in so holy a cause. I am breathless
with eagerness to speak, and yet my words
come tumultuous and confusedly, nor am I
conscious of aught except that thy presence
is the reason they crumble thus before
thee as dust. But speak one word, and
it shall be received as a decree from
Heaven—at an injunction from the highest,
holiest shrine at which devotee ever bent a
knee, or before which the haughtiest head
bowed lowliest. Thou mayest pronounce my
death; thou mayest withdraw thy light from
my life to come; denyto my fearful, trembling,
yet ravished steps those stars which could lead
me on to deedsearth ne’er yet saw. Descending
from thy throne' of beauty, thou mightest
trample on thy worshipper; though from that
210 THE SHIP OP GLASS,
dear eye I read that thou would’st be
pained whilst thou should’st sacrifice. Thine
arrow might’st pierce my heart, but its blood
should pour forth, a sacred torrent, and blush
in the glorifying light at its unworthiness and
yet its honour in streaming for thee! Oh
that my words were fire! that, standing in
burning characters, I might with finger trace
to thee that magic story I would yet cannot
telL Paltry, poor, wretched are words! Tones
fail; heart fails; fancy fails! Contemn me—
despise me, for I am an automaton to which
Love supplied flame, Prometheus-like snatched
from the starry altars of Heaven; but it is
gone, and I am earth once more I”
Who shall not say that there can be love
at first sight! What could have induced
Cunique’s sudden enthusiasm—caused those
feelings which were burning to make them­
selves known; but yet through tfieir
very fervency, and the multitude of new-
thronging thoughts which rushed to him, failed
Digitized b y G o O g l e
THE im p OF SLABS. 2 ii
in the assumption of shape even to himself
perhaps, much less of interpretation to the
idol before whom these hasty and precipitate,
nay incoherent offerings were scattered:—
what might have caused this extraordinary
forgetfolnesB of self, of his errand, and all
belonging to him, and of the great world he
had so lately quitted, but the universal tyrant
and irresistible conqueror—love?
They err whoadvance that love requires time
—that the tender plant demands its due
nourishment, its sunshine, nay even its tears,
before it can spring. It is subservient to no
elements; to no exactions or necessities of
nature: it is not amenable to time, but con­
trols and subjugates time himself
Has it to gain its knowledge step by step—
denied to move forward until, committed to
and deeply impressed upon memory, its earliest
elements and initiatory constituents, are duly
measured, and appreciated,and recorded in the
heart’s judgment ? On the contrary, it can
N
212 THE SHIP O f OXiABS.
start up with the most rapid growth: rise
from nothing, flourish, expand into the flower
before others dream the seed has even alighted
Its recognition is spiritual and mysterious,
coming we know not whence—constituted we
know not how. That strange instinct which
prompts to the instant acknowledgment of the
twin of the heart—long lost, seen before alone
in dreams, but now found living, breathing,
real, capable of affection, of the entire, rap­
turous giving up of self; and, what is more,
competent to resign itselftons, loving us wholly
purely and trnly: this quick instinct is un­
doubtedly not of man, but somethingfar beyond
worldly scope and compass, and rapid as light
and as direct.
In the very singularity of her position—in,
as she felt, its eventful nature, there wassome­
thing whioh gave Fhroditis confidence. She
rose up, and though with some tremulous­
ness, and the fitful coming and going
...
C
>
THE SHIP Of GLASS. 213
of colour, she with tolerable firmness
spoke.
“ 1 ana too great a stranger to the world to
understand whether your address has
m it any of those forms of speech customary
on an occasion when stranger meet stranger. I
cannot tell who thou art, or from whence thou
contest, or what may be tby purpose here.
But frankly 1 could listen to more that thou
should’s! say, did I not fear that I might be
wrong in opening mine ears to words which
sound singular and unusual, and such that
though sweet seem inconsistent to me. Pardon
my foolishness if 1 say aught which should not
be according to the fashions that prevail out of
this house, for I am little more than a child,
and these things which you see around have
alone been my instructors. Treat me as a
child, then; but do not abuse my simplicity,
and if I can trust your face, and I am a reader
of countenances, and in my own fancy have
214 THE SHIP OP GLA88.
acquired some skill in that language of nature’s
own making, 1 think that you would not; nay,
something whispers to me, that you could not
say with your lips those things which should
not be reflections from your own heart I never
do. I could not”
“ Oh, rare excellence! Oh, divine inno­
cence IConvince me that youare not so perfect,”
cried Cunique, “ or I shall thinkreally that I yet
dream: that I am oheated with some lovely
delusion'which will dissolve and leave me to
darkness and tears. Drive me not from thy
presence. Question me — ask me what has
brought me hither, why 1 am here, and what I
am, and I will answer with pure solid truth,
entire and sacred as that of thine own heart.
I will be thy question’s reflection. Echo of
thine own imaginings. And as far as my im­
perfect nature will admit, 1 will glass back
in the mirror of my own mind accurately
to each thought which shall rise distinct in the
TEE SHIT OF GLASS. 215
dear table of thiae ow d. Faith shall be
faithlessness to the exactness of my replies.
Oh! only trust me—only try me.”
Strangeit was, or perhaps it was not strange
atnil, that Phroditis should first blush a “ celes­
tial rosy red,” and then that, raising her eyes
inthe purestconfidence, with a childlike, touch­
ing appeal, and an invitation to interchange of
confidence which was all nature and no
doubt, and where all form was banished,
andwhich would have been in the judgment of
the world, hasty, thoughtless and indecor­
ous in the highest degree — we say it was
strange that those tender orbs—now orbs of
watery light, should fill with tears. But so it
was. Phroditis wept: her eyes were suffused
with the sweetest tears that ever dimmed
theirglory.
“ OhI if you want proof,” she cried, “ that
I amprepared to believe thee—take my hand.
I know that you are full of truth, for heaven
eannot deceive, and it has set its stamp of
216 f i l l SHIP Of CHAUS.
credit in thy forehead. Oh 1 pardon me,” she
ejaculated the moment afterwards, clasping
her hands and throwing up her eyes, and then
as quickly letting them fall to Cnniqne’s feet:
“ pardon me if I have done wrong I”
“ Wrong 1
”echoed Cunique; “ wrongI How
can I repay such truth I What can I do to
convince you that I am not unworthy of that
high and noble confidence you so promptly ex­
tend. Lady, a base, and unworthy motive
brought me hither. Humour with her hundred
tongues, hath been busy about this place in
which thou livest. She has noised thee abroad
as beautiful. I heard perhaps—little I heeded.
Perchance, 1 disbelieved. Curiosity induced
me to seek out tby concealment, and to decide
with my own eyeB the justice of the praises
lavished on thee. Thus do I come. Wretch
that I am, and despicable, for I seem to despise
myself for it, I have with profaning foot and
careless thought broken in upon the sanctity
which should surround thee, and gazed with
TH E S H I? O ff GLASS. 217
sacrilegious eyes upon a treasure too peat,
too rich for earth! Can you forgive me
that 1 scaled these walls in defiance of your
father’s name of terror, and that reputation
which assigns to Mm unearthly command,
and power over spirits to work ill and mis­
chief, to consume and destroy those who
provoke his anger ? Out of that black,
dim, dreary world,” continued Cunique, point­
ing with his finger to the window, “ have I
come; my unhallowed foot has trespassed
upon enchanted ground. I am a blot from
its blackness — a leafless twig from the
withered, blasted forest, sapless, motionless,
seized with the dry decay which permeates
and crumbles root, trunk and branch, at once
consuming in slow but certain and silent de­
struction a thousand stems and a thousand
arms. 1 am a wandering bird from that
world of owls, bearing upon my beating,
sooty, impatient wings, nought tat polluted
fog and thick and poisonous darkness. I have
VO L. X, L
218 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
blindly straggled into light ; and now daz­
zled benumbed and weak, crushed and con­
founded, I am fluttering in an exhausted at­
tempt to get back to my kindred obscurity.'
“ Tour words remind me of something I had
quite forgotten,” said Phroditia. rt My father.
A y de m il if he might suspect that such as
you were here: if the Senhora Castilda, whose
restless disposition will, I dread, not detain
her where she has retired—if she should re­
turn, woe be to you; woe to both of us! Oh !
go: quit me. I may believe thine assertion
that some idle whim—
some vague, indefinite
curiosity hath brought thee hither, and that in
thine attempts to find this room thou hast
been assisted by chance, but I could not see
thee a victim. Oh heaven 1 what was I about
to say 1 What did I think 1 Dear stranger, quit
me quickly. If all in the outer world, of which
I know nothing, and now behold thee as its
first specimen, be as thou, my wretchedness at
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 219
being thus confined—
thus imprisoned will be
aggravated tenfold, and I shall lose that poor
peace andslight comfort, and that meagre con­
solation which 1 possessed before. 1 shall
know my misery-feel my deprivation ; but I
must learn—
I must teach myself to languish
and endure. Oh! waste no more words I De­
lay not. Fly while thou hast time. And—
and farewell—
farewell for ever, forI shall never
see thee again!”
“ I have sworn to leave thee—quit thee at
thy lightest wish,” cried Cunique. “ 1 was
prepared to obey though my heart should
break. Thy last word will make me traitor
to my pledge, and linger when perhaps I ought
only the rather to hasten. But if I go answer
me but one thing. Could, oh loveliest-most
precious creature that these eyes ever beheld I
mightI in the innermost recesses of my soul—
in
the depth of my conscious abasement...in the
knowledge and conviction of presumptkma
aspirations, mad while they are most raptur-
l 3
220 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
ous ; with that flame starting from my heart
—
ambitious flame perhaps only instantaneously
to be trodden out—
dare I hope that thou
would’st say farewell and retain one remem­
brance-one tender thought of him who crossed
thee like a shadow, to be removed from thy
path and leave thee light. But thou ! Oh 1
thoughts of thee shall be the flowers which
ehall adorn that mournful altar upon which I
sacrifice my hopes, my dreams, my all—my­
self! Bid me go; but say it as if thou
should’st like to see me again, though thou
never shalt. I go—
never to forget thee: my
closing hour shall testify to my unaltered—
my
imperishable devotion ; ages should see me the
same. Thou wilt forget me; soon, perhaps,
very soon; but say that thou wilt remember
until to-morrow 1
”
“ Until to-morrow 1 Oh, how little thou
knowest of what I am capable. Do—oh, do
you love me?”
Cunique clasped his hands in an agony of
THE SHIP OF OUL18, 321
joy, threw himself on one knee before Phro-
ditis, bowed down his head in token of his
inejprewibje devotion, and gasped in a vain
attempt to apeak, At last large tears sprang
to his eyes; and then he looked up and gazed
upon Phroditis with all the touching tender­
ness in the world.
A moment after he sprang to bis feet, and
trembled with his excitement and eagerness, as
the thought struck him that he must have de­
ceived himself. That he had heard something
too sweet, too delicious to be true—too rap­
turous to be trusted.
He looked to Phroditis in mournful doubt
as if he must have mistaken her, and have
wildly flattered himself with a hope which
madness could alone have suggested.
“ Love 1—do I love? Can you ask? Oh,
that all these thousand stars could each stand
witness to the truth that 1 do fondly—passion­
ately—madly love you I Let each in his magic
circle now attest—may they to everlasting
222 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
bum an ever-living, eternal token and
record that I pledge to you my heart’s dearest
affection;—its hopes for the future, resigning
to you all memories of the past Sweet is
the thought that I am even permitted thus
much to tell thee. Oh, bright, beautiful being!
for a smile from thee I would scale earth’s
highest peaks, daring the icy terrors of the
loftiest mountain which ever shot, (eternal and
ambitious watch-tower) towards the blue depths
of the impenetrable, ever-rising Heaven. For
thee would I brave winter’s keenest snow;
the sharp artillery of the rattling hail poured
from its magazines of cloud: the mountain
fires starting from livid and gaping craters,
Whose harsh dry lips and crusted throats alone
in the rending agonies of their fiery fever vomit
Bhowered dust and ashes, below thrice sifted
in the uiad whirl ot the volcauicconflict. Earth’s
wildest rocks and broadest rivers—its dragon-
haunted caverns, and its nodding cliffs—its
shapes of mystery and scenes of loneliness—
its
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 223
BDpieroed solitudes and desert silence—its tor­
ture in the storm; its ruin in the earthquake;
its slow consuming waste and eating decay,
all could I cheerfully endure, more could I
undauntedly face for thee. To gratify a single
wish of thine, 1 would persevere to the world’s
hopeless heights; descend to her lowest, darkest
depth. Oh, say this is no boast 1
—I know it
none. 1 feel the strength of hundreds in these
arms. I have the devotion of an incalculable
love within this heart. Strength that should
nerve me to the combat of the wildest things
of fright i—all monstrous forms and legendary
goblins; all shapes, all shadows. My weapon
should be the love of thee, which should van­
quish all1
”
What could Phroditis say, half inclined as
she was already to believe all that Cunique
poured oat and grant the best portion of his
prayers. She experienced so many new feelings
—such a world of irresistible emotions opened
to her, that though she would willingly have as
■
OIK
THE SHIP Of OLAS8.
fully expressed herself; she could only think,
without capability of giving utterance to it,
that sudden, glowing affection which dictated
the happy language, meltingly powerful in its
sweet artlonmeas and conquering trust,
“I do not know
One of my sex; scarce woman’s fttceremember,
Save, frommy glass, my own; nor lave I seen
Morethat I may call men, than you, good friend.
And my dearfather : how features are abroad,
I am skill-leas of; but by my modesty,
(The jewelin my dower) 1would not wish
Any companion in the world but you;
Nor can imagination form a shape,
Besides yourself, to like of; but I prattle
Something too wildly and my father's precepts
Therein forget.
Hence, bookful cunning 1
And promptme plainand holy innocence !
I amyour wife, if you will many me;
If not, I'll die your maid: to be your fellow
You may deny me,but 111be your servant,
Whether you will or no.
Dostthoulovemet I know thou wilt say—ay ;
And I will take thy word; yet, if thou swear’st,
Thoumay’s! prove false; at lover’s perjuries,
O »
"
!
:
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 925
They stay, Jove laughs. 0, gentle stranger,
If thou dost lore, pronounce it faithfully :
Or if thou think’st I am too quickly won,
Til frown, and be perverse, and say thee nay,
So thou wilt wooi but, else, not for the world.
In truth, fair youth, I know I am too fond;
And therefore thou may*st think my ’haviour light.
But trust me, gentleman, 111 prove more true
Than those who have more cunning to be shy.
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
But that thou didst impel, ere I was 'ware,
My true love’s passion; therefore pardon me ;
And not impute this yielding to light love,
Which but surprise hath so discovered,”
226 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
CHAPTER XIV.
A CHAPTER ON LOVE.
“ And if this be the science of the stars,
I too, with glad and zealous industry,
Will learn acquaintance with this cheerful faith.
It is a gentle and affectionate thought.
That in immeasurable heights above us.
At our first birth, the wreath of love was woven,
With sparkling stars for flowers.
Not only roses,
But thorns too hath the heaven.”
Coleridge.
Of all passions in the world, love not only is
the most tyrannical, and takes the deepest
0■
■
’ Google
THS SHIP OP GLASS, 227
hold, but isalsospeediest in its transformation,
and in its change of the scenery round us;
nay the scenery environing the heart
That love is the great sweetener ofexistence
—the active and stirring principle—that
spring which sets everything in motion—the
vivid awakener, exponent and representation
of all the finest, most delicate, and subtlest
movements in our spiritual nature, who could
deny1 But it must differ in all minds; the
tasteful can love but with taste; the delicate
with delicacy; the fervent and eager with
high impellant strength, and burning com­
pleteness and abandonment There is love
which once aroused—called to the surface
from its tender fountain, and boiling up out of
its placid depths, becomes like the torrent
sweeping on in impetuosity, rising up against
and surmounting with fury all the petty ob­
stacles and small interruptions which the envy
orcaution* policy, the coldness or worldliness
of man seek to interpose to it.
228 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
Love is such a giant power that it seems
to gather strength from obstruction, and at
every difficulty rises to higher might. It Is
all dominant—all conquering; a grand leveller
whichcan bringdown to its own universal line
ofequalization the proudest heights,andremove
the stubbornest impediments. There is no
hope of resisting it, for it outwatches watch;
submerges everything, acquiring strength as
it prooeeds; ever-growing, nay, growing out
of itself.
Instead, of exhausting itself...instead of
weakening or wasting itself at those times
when it putteth forth its greatest strength;
draweth moat upon its rigour, and summon-
eth out most severely its force from the depth
from which that force ascends, it seems actu­
ally to beget a new abundance, and thereby to
secure the vivacity and permanence of the
supply out of its very expenditure.
From a very harmless, merely pleasing,
scarcely more than exciting affection of the
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 229
n ir l ; from a small caprice, so light and un­
substantial, so thin and vapoury, with so little
root, and with a flower of so diaphanous and
shadowy, yet withal fancifully tender colour,
if left to itself how insidiously does it spread,
and grow, and strengthen. It will take up
more of the time; it will be quitted with more
and more regret; it will be returned to with
more and mere pleasure. We shall then com­
mence looking for it at times that we ought
not to want it...that we ought to know we
should be better without it We shall be
missing it when we shall still have our usual
employments!, and the everyday moulds into
whichweare accustomed to pour our thoughts.
It may then be said to have strengthened in
thehead, and to have taken up its station there,
supplying new lights to our eyes, pouring
unexpected, and yet, as they came, welcome
tones into our ears; and we shall continually
find new strange words rise to our lips, of
230 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
which we only become conscious in time to
stop.
Thisis a transition state, which should awake
the jealousy. It is a time to seize, and make
the most of for your own preservation; to
arrest those “ thick coming fa n c ie s to bestir
yourself in, if you desire to successfully com*
bat that cunning viridity and eagerly springing
luxuriance of what may afterwards bear bitter
fruit. You may rest assured that your out­
works are carried; and though you may re­
main satisfied with the thought that when
you rise in your strength you can check
and repel the advances of an enemy who
perhaps all the more formidably approaches
with smiles, it Is not to be forgotten that your
adversary is one that never sleeps; that when
to all appearance he is most quiet he is the
most intent, and the most industriously occu­
pied iu plotting your mischief. His hostility
is managed with such a lowly perseverance,
THK SHIP OP GLASS. 231
and his triumphs over you lire so persuasively
assumed and gracefully registered, that
your discomfiture is turned into delight, and
he saps and mines with such flattering perti­
nacity that you feel only pleased and hon­
oured at the very success which is your undoing,
and that so redoubted a conqueror, who fights
with Us eyes, and vanquishes in embracing,
should have selected you for his object of
attack.
This is your dangerous time. Your flag
stills flies iu the wind upon the citadel, but
you are not aware that the very sky has
changed; that yonr colours are altering, your
ensigns brightening but brightening on the
opposing side. You do not see that rosy
gleams, fatal to their security, play on your
battlements; that your fierce pennons lan­
guidly siuk in the enervating air; that a
warmth and glow are growing round your
hold, to cause the eyelids of your watchmen
to fall, their glances to be diverted, their
232 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
vigilance to be charmed away, their arms to be
laid aside as suddenly found encumbrances.
Nay, the rigid hardening and bristling menace,
defensive self-possession and stony-hearted
determination of the rocky girdle which fences
your “ power,” are melting in the soft and
sonny beams which are playing towards and
converging into straight lines directly levelled
at your defences. Your fortress is dilapidated
rampart by rampart: no longer able to retain
their mutual hold, stones fall from each other,
and part in the loosening warmth, and seduc­
tive and charmingly treacherous indolence
which widely work and interpenetrate among
them. The sharp and thirsty points which
edged your lines of fortification, fall off appa­
rently without visible agency, and your forces
are routed unconsciously, .even when most
strung to the watch, and armed with their
firmest resolutions, and the fixed obstinacy
not to be conquered. Then the rays of love
strengthen and broaden, and with more and
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 233
more boldness tend, without disguise, and with
no more circuitous inflections, to their grand
object. The; lengthen towards the heart:
some most forward pierce it, and pus quickly,
sharply through, though the very sensation,
painful though it be, is delicious pain and de-
lixiouB delight. Those eager, arrowy flames,
thin as lightest rays of light, thicken and in­
crease, until Love’s quiver ia exhausted, or
darts no longer are needed, and you rapidly
fall towards him and decline into bis arras. In
that finallyvanquishing and overwhelming em­
brace, you own him as your dearest friend and
most powerful protector, whom you before but
looked upon as canning foe, and an enemy
whose very footsteps spoke of mischief and de­
solation.
And Love has so many disguises...takes so
many shapes...weaves around him such diver­
sity of colouring...presents so many phases of
beauty, for even though mournful, terrible, or
despairing may be his aspect, there is a sof-
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
tening power and beautiful enchantment that
always invests it, beoause these changes of
mind are all owing to him and flow to exist­
ence in his shadow. Love numbers up so many
transitions j such a multiplicity of appearances,
that we can scarcely point the finger uni say
that love is there, or that it is not.
Cunningly does it evade...slyly will it slip
from observation. As the touch to the
sensitive plant, so is the cold common eye
of the cheerless, matter of fact world, which
would recal with cold monitory look, and un*
sympathising surprise, and contemptuously
pitying if not stern discountenance, springing
affection, and all the glowing impulses of love.
Love knows that it is no fit thing for earth, or
the barren platitudes of worldly scenes, and
therefore shrinks away and tries to hide
4
itself...to escape observation by mingling in
and becoming something else. Its best justice,
and greatest truth, is to forswear itself.
Closing over and brooding upon its precious
THB SHIP OP GLASS. 23d
secret, even as the dope closes her snowy wings
over her frightened heart, will it lose itself
in and e&twine and identify itself with the
paltry things of a world of wood and varnish,
though in its retiring track it invariably illu­
minates with its own passing glow the soulless
forms and plastic conventionalities through
which its way to escape is taken.
Love is the light, the majesty of life: that
principle to which after all oar straggling, and
writhing, and twisting, all things must be re-
solved. Take it away, and what becomes of
the world f It is a barren wilderness. A
world of monuments, each standing upright
and crumbling: an army of grey stones,
without a chaplet, without a leaf to take off
with its glimpse of green their flat insi­
pidity and offensive uniformity, upon
a Shrnbless plain. Things base and foul,
creeping and obscene, withered and blood­
less and brainless, oould alone spring
THE (U P OF GLASS.
236
from snob a marble-hearted boll Its vegetal
uoa must be flint; its gram but fields of
tpicula, like whit# coral, shivering to the loot.
Heaped sand, springiest berbtas; slaty rocks
and limestone splinters, oold sod impenetrable
asEgyptian obelisks,scattered to stood forever
in the profundity of their oyra desolation, and
to rear their giant shapes to a heaven pf lead,
whose clouds sluggishly andponderously move,
like marble islands, in an atmosphere of hope­
less depression, stagnant and unmoving.
Love is the sun of the moral world; which
revives, invigorate^ cals into life, and illu­
mines all objects; gives strength to the weak,
fire to our plans and purposes, brings about
great things, and is at once the mainspring and
grand stirrer of ail that is not only sweet,
graceful and beautiful iu our oonstitution, but
noble, bold, aspiring.
Love’s darts are silver when they leave his
quiver, but they turn to fire in the noble heart
THE SHIP OF GLAM. 237
They Impart a portion of that heavenly flame
which is their element. Love is of such a re­
fining, elevating character, that it expels all
that is mean and base; bids ns think great
thoughts, do great deeds, changes our common
day into fine gold. It illuminates our path,
darkling and mysterious as it may be, with
torchlights lit from the one great light
Ob, poor, weak, inexpressive are words
when sought to strew, as with stars,
the path and track of the expression of love’s
greatness, and love’s power1 Dull, pitiful,
and cold, a cheating, horny gleam, as strong
stones by the tide of precious gems, and the
far-flashing of the sparkling roby with his
heart of fire 1 The bine eyes of turquoises, or
the liquid light of the sapphire, should alone
be tasked to spell along, and character our
thoughts of love. Fixed, flaming, and con­
tinuous, then truly
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
“ Thoughts that breathe, and words that bam,’’
would dance, and sparkle, and brightly
flash a thousand jewels twined into language;
hooked, and linked, and strung as flowers of
flame, whose dazzling petals, and scorching
scrolls, and ever changing, ever springing
blue, and amber, and ruby beams, would twist
and Banned into chain of hieroglyphics keen
and shiny as Love’s own lucent alphabet, or his
diamond diadem in his own blue heaven. Then
might we indeed
“Glow while weread, andtremble while we write.”
But now a night of coldness is round us.
The stringB of the harp are cut, and low they
hang; binding yet up in fond and faithful
clasp the broken frame of gold. The wreath
is dead which is caught upon its topmost
curve, and the lovely notes are still. They
THE SHIP OP GLAM. 2 3 9
have sped away and evaporated as glancing
fays from the moonlit cape of drooping bell­
flowers. The roses are dead; their colours
hive fled away and melted into the twilight:
m i one by one are coming down, silently and
sadly, odourless and still reluctant, those
tender blushing leaves which were once so
beautiful.
And what total and all pervading interest is
suppliedby love ! Verily a new heaven seemeth
to be above us; a new earth beneath us. The
sceneryof the world hasits sunshine let in npon
it; everything appears not only of the cmtleur
i t rote, but of the brilliancy of gold. Sorrow
sod disappointment may come; but nevermind
them, we have love—we have that inexhausti­
ble fountain of joy within us. Love has fbr-
nished ns flaming armour from the cold shot
of the world. The stormy hail may beat and
rattle on our harness, bat it will melt, nor
shall it prevail against the never-dying bloom
of the myrtles which are wreathed about our
THE SHIP OF GLAM.
silver crest Who does not glow in the sum­
mer light, in the melting witcheries of lovely
eyes! And when they beam for os, or when,
alas! we can only persuade ourselves that they
do, with what power are they gifted I What
instant and unspeakable joy rushes through
ns ! And those moments of giddy happiness
who would exchange for the pomps and plea­
sures, the honours and wealth of a world
which is after all so poor as to be compelled
to borrow its best treasures from the imagi­
nation.
“ And say I that my limbs are old;
And say I that my bloodis cold.
Andthat my kindly fireis fled,
^ And my poorwitheredheartis dead,
And that I maynot sing of love1
How can I to the dearest theme
That ever warmeda minstrel’s dream.
So foul, so false, a recreant prove ;
How can I name Love’s very name,
Nor wakemy harpto notes of flame I
In peace, Lore tunesthe shepherd's reed;
TBS SfflP OF CLASS. 241
la war,be mounts the warrior’s steed;
In halls, ingaj attireis seen ;
In hamlets, dances on the green.
Lots rules the court, the comp, the grove,
And men belowand saints above;
For loveis heaven, and heaven is love.”
How will a glance thrill! How will a word
which seems to rise to the lips, and there
■top, send the blood like rushing fire through the
veins1 Oar whole being will tremble and tingle
with the hope, the rapture, and yet with the
certain tincture of dread that always accom­
panies an approaching confession. We shall
live on a look for a night, and bear it away as
a sacred gift which we shall never part fromi
and shall recur and fly back to when chilled
with the world, as a treasure ourown—dearly
oar own, and all the sweeter for its darling
secrecy. Unknown to—unseen by all, pass
these mysterious intelligences which tell such
242 THE SB ff OF W6.
tales of the heart. In them we read our fate
—find whole ages of p us or deBght.
The flashing glance—the timid look hastily
averted, the heaving bosom* the low struggling
sigh which only catobes your single ear, th e
hasty movement, the very avoidance of yon
sometimes, the parting word, the faltering
farewell which needlessly lingers, and caprici­
ously as it seems is snatched from you w hen
you would most wish to dwelt upon it, all a re
food for your long solitudo, aed restless ques­
tioning of what may, be possible,'and ■
*oh-
stunted dteams^and. yonr multitudinous gaerfeee.
numberless as the uncounted stain.
- “ And Love has marry languages, all o f
which ire more eloquent than words. H ow
ingenious are its artifices, how fertile, its re­
sources of expression.1 The language of th e
eye is dearer, tbaa the choicest plumes culled
by a poet’s inspiration. The language o f
touch, hath its own woiM of ftelhtg, apart
from all other mode* and forms oh emotion*3
3 )
THJ Stiff Of QLAM
. M3
Then with what prompt cunning doth Love
appropriate to itself the moet distant images,
and onfikelj things wherewith to oonvey by
parable some hidden meaning to the one
who earn alone understand its application. It
hath the skill to translate all things to its own
use, and to quicken, eiren without look, word,
or touch, the kindling fame by a happy dex­
terity in appearing to neglect it. Is not its
mote obedience a language full of purpose?
Is not its mercurial indifference, uneasily put
on and pettishly abandoned, a language beyond
speech ? Bat when it designedly transgresses
for the sake of the sweet reproof, and falls
into open rebellion only that it may be captured
and pat into chains again, hath it not in these
caprices Bnd vicissitudes a multitude of unspo­
ken languages, making themselves known
by visible signs the masonry of tire heart
— which none bnt the initiated can com­
prehend ?
“ Love makes us very conscious and auspi-
M 3
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
cions of every movement The lover imagines
himself to be no embarrassed that every body
must perceive it, and he is therefore constantly
employed in devising cunning schemes for
eluding and evading observation j forgetting
that the more he straggles to escape i t the
more he draws it down upon him.
*
*There are many ways of making love.
Indeed, the varieties of the art are endless—
it may be called an art, and certainly it is
not only one of the fine arts, bat unequivo­
cally the finest of all the arts. It would be
utterly impossible to imagine the diversities of
that sort that arise in the course of a three
months’ courtship, from the dawn of the sen­
sation to its final outbreak and confession, after
which it may may be said to lose half its charms.
You may make love with your foot, as Sterne
would say, and nobody in the world but the
Beloved would be the wiser of it. And then
how would she take such a strange and won-
drously intelligible medium of expression?
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 2 4 5
A h! her blue eyes, or deep hazel, or light ash,
or whatever colour they might be, would sud-
den sparkle as ifan electric wire had touched
her, and she would raise them with their new
born thoughts springing up in them to. look
into your face, not with a full gaze, but a half
downcast and thrilling glance ofan instant,likea
sunflash, and then ablush, burning and sudden,
would rush into her face, and she would un­
consciously squeeze her beautiful lips together,
and then turn away her head suddenly as if
provoked at having been betrayed into a recog­
nition of the meaning of your familiar, and,
we must odd, contraband mode of awakening
her feelings. And how many silly men are
there who, tongue-tied, make love with their
hands and their eyes.
“ Love certainly is not eloquent. It cannot
talk to, but it can talk for ever of the object,
That is to say, while the early season is full of
its clouds and showers, and the wooer is not
orer confident of the future. But when the
246 M B SHIP OF OLA88.
•on breaks oat mad there is assursuoe of hope,
then even the timid grow brave, ami become
as gmmlous as if they bad practised delicious
nonsense all their lives long. Yet it is odd,
that any man with the passion, which » eosta*
tic even in its uncertainty, throbbing like a
mad poise in his bonnm, eata sit, statoe-fsshion,
all dnlness and melancholy, lookings anii mop-
ing, and dreaming, whflethe fawn-dike B ang
is inevil ind him full of Gtace, and Joy,
nad Beauty. A maa, the most impassioned
on all other subjects, becomes very grave when
his heart is in question, just as if he felt, which
he does not, for be knows nothing about it,
that in that transition of his nature, his whole
world was about to be changed, and his soul
translated into a different order of existence.
One would think that his sadness wns contem-
pation, and that his thoughtfulness was thought
—
but It is no such thing. His mind—
with all
respeot for nature’s laws—
is a vacuum. He
is a person absorbed in spite of himself. He
2 4 7
aeithfer thinks, not wishes, nor fears, nor hopes.
He does nothiag but look stupid*, tad the best
of H is, that* nil the while, be is secretly per­
suaded tint he is doing miracles within Mthself;
towards the Mcomplisfament of some vague
achievementin the arrangement and subjugation
of his feelings.
“ The truth is, love is « parados. It acts
by contradictions. All we know is, that its
force is centrifugal We might as well attempt
to reap the winds, count the motes in the sun,
or swim in the sir, as to trace its rise and pro­
gress. The catechism of love—
that is Farqu-
har’s—
says, arbitrarily, that it enters at the
eyes. We have Shakespeare’s authority also
to the same effect
“ Tell me. where is fancy bred.
How begot1 How nourishedI
It is engendered in the eyes,
With gazing fedj and there it dies
In the cradle where it lies."
248 THE SHIP OF GLAM
“ The very notion is profane, for it limits
the universal influence of the passion. It
enters everywhere; it penetrates the tips of
the fingers, for we often fall in love with a
touch of the hand—
it is bom in the sound of
the voice, for we often fall in love with a mu­
sical tone—it comes, we know not how—
and
goes, sometimes we care not whither.”
CHAPTER XV,
CBSIQ
UE A SUBJECT Of A NEW EMPIRE.
“Alas, that love, so gentle In his view.
Shouldbe so tyrannous and rough in proof!
Tut,I have lost myself; I am not here;
Thisis not Romeo, he's some other where.”
Shakespeare.
C
bsiqub’s fate from that delicious moment
when he first saw Phroditis was sealed: whe­
ther happily or not, he could not te ll; but at
pretent he felt very miserable.
m 5
M B SHIP OP 6LAS8,
He could hardly believe himself the same
person. A change so sudden, so total had
come upon him—so complete and so unex­
pectedly dazzling was this new light which
had burst in upon the hollow caverns aud
drear crags of his mind, that its first effect was
to confound and bewilder him. His whole
previous life seemed a picture wanting light.
A landscape desolate and gloomy, with the
slow clouds trooping over it in blank and heavy
monotony; an abandoned fane, roofless and in
ruins, standing solitarily amidst the sombre
shades of a silent forest; a pale Hades, peo­
pled with wandering and shapeless shadows. It
all seemed discordant, unhinged, unfixed: and
its masquerade anomalies and coarse eccentri­
cities—nay, what he then considered pleasures
and excitements, now wore an air of disap­
pointment, weariness, flatness, and sickening
insipidity.
How ha could lave lived, and thought he
then lived, he was puzzled to imagine. T he
THE SHIP OF GLAM. 2 5 1
grand purpose of his life, nay, the grand pur­
pose of life in general, seemed wanting. It
was as body without soul...face without mind
...the earth without beauty...nay, the heaven
without ran. He contemned and despised
himself for hie easy compliance with the un­
satisfactory events of his daily experience.
How he hould have been interested at that
time, he could not reconcile to hia new percep­
tion. Life misspent, hours wasted, days ex­
hausted in frivolous pursuits and unbecoming
though not vicious irregularities, rose up
against him. By what strange blindness he
could have existed so long in ignorance of what
he had now found out, seemed the most as­
tonishing thing in the world to him: how in
that very town should have been so mooch—
that town with whose every street he was so
familiar, and the aspeot of each ofwhose build­
ings was as deeply impressed upon him as the
letters ofthe alphabet; whose people he thought
he everyone knew, and whose sources of inter-
2 5 2 THK SHIP OP GLA88.
est or excitement he thought he had drained
to the last...how in this his very birthplace
and daily haunt, should have existed without
his knowledge, or without the surmise cross­
ing his mind, the being who could supply
value to the world, or be a world, was a fact
which overpowered him.
Breath, heart, life was all Love’s. Cuni-
que’s mind at this period was ja maze. It
was filled with a thousand thoughts; but
likely or unlikely, consistent or inconsist­
ent, there was one image, Proteus like, which
would link and incorporate itself into alL His
thoughts would belie his words. While his
words might be sensible enough, and appro­
priate to the subject matter in hand, his
thoughts were the strangest rigmarole. They
kept not the least correspondence with them.
• His tongue seemed mechanically the imple­
ment of the world, and, taught by long prac­
tice, like any other machine, it did its work
well enough. It went on without requiring
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 2 5 3
direction or watch, and appeared to be in
action on its own account, and with an old
grafted force still maintaining itself and living
on its first impulse. But his thoughts were
so strained, disjointed, and twisted out of con­
nection, that they refused to hook, or in
their attempts to adjust themselves only ex­
hibited the greater confusion, and Berved to
render that irrelative disparity visible which
might otherwise have escaped notice.
Mis senses indeed seemed to decline their
several offices. His eyes refused to see; his
ears testified disinclination to hear; nay, his
hands and his feet showed symptoms of rebel­
lion. He was restless—pre-occupied—thought­
ful about nothing—talkative when he should
have been silent—silent when he should have
talked.
He had suddenly become convinced that he
had a heart: what is more he felt it faintingly
sink away in his bosom. lik e Sterne, he was
254 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
positive of it, and nobody could have per­
suaded him to the contrary. He felt it lan­
guishing when he thought of heb. Or if her
name was mentioned, how it beat I His cheeks
would glow—his conscious eyes sparkle, as if
something had suddenly touched him to which
his whole being responded.
r
Morning, noon, and night: with the rising
sun as he climbed boldly through the flaming
circlets of oloud, spreading a glowing blush
through the dim blue light and sleeping
vapours of early day; with the steadily burn­
ing orb, as with his broad yellow radiance he
poured his cheering light over the face of il­
luminated nature; and when the last lights
had faded one after the other like fairy torches
reversed and put out as at the constellated
funeral of the dying day, a thought—one
a
thought, one image, occupied Cunique’s mind.
When the long rays had drawn in, and the
glorious lamp had sunk to rest in the ardent
HE fB IP Of GLASS. U
glow of it* f ary ashes, then when the starry
host was paraded in all Its glittering pride,
and tdie Incest argosy of sight wss afloat to
steer her trackless way throagfa the deep un­
fathomable Hue of the still and solemn sky t
with the whispered vespers of the lonely
woods, and the thousand smokes of unseen
altars, tended by their shadowy guardians,
whose placid ftces and spirit forms sure folded
in the doubling embrace of their clasping
wings as the sleepy flowers dose in a myriad
of graceful involutions their tender bells at the
step of Night; at all these seasons—
-in a word,
at all times, did Cunique think of Phroditis.
To him there was a lovely shape—one airy
form exalted to heaven, to which his upward
wishes tended in one long fervent adoration.
His passage through Ms thoughts was lit by
love. He had parted with his soul—his dearer
half; its beauty only made apparent to him
when it rendered itself visible to steal away.
And now he seemed in restless yearning, and
...
C
>
2 5 6 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
long-languishing regret, to be looking after it
and tracing its way until he beheld it lost and
swallowed up in the embrace of that Lovely
Existence, whose path was sunbeams, and
whose presence was joy and life beyond name.
Cunique was only half himself. He had
lost his heart. It was away. He walked like
a man who had lost his soul. He was as the
gorgeous setting with his dearest jewel gone.
Them was a doleful sweetness about him,
which shed a strange melancholy fascination
upon the objects which surrounded him. He
seemed environed by touching memories, each
of which melted into his heart like the odours
of roses steeped and dropping with tears.
The steeples spoke to him. The chimes of
the bells seemed the voices of spirits, recalling
long lost but unforgotten glimpses of a fairy­
land of thought Musical memories were
wafted to him and stole away again upon the
wings of the floating wind. The sky shone
but deep mournful blue, and its beautiful
THE SHIP 07 GLASS. 261
silence seemed sympathy to which his heart
appealed. He poured Mb soul into nature;
and in its voiceless recesses—in its thousand
forms and countless aspects—in its heart of
hearts, he seemed to he answered. Into the
bosom of the Mighty Mother he poured his
sorrow; and though there was no tangible,
palpable voice, though she could but look with
her languid, tender eyes, though she might
not express save with those nameless hints and
vague whisperings which the ear does not hear
but the mind must catch as magic reflections
from a charmed glass, he knew she heard, and
he felt persuaded he was not alone in his an­
guish, but that agony found its pitying echo.
Fettered—bound to one place—languishing
for room, and je t condemned to stand, as in
a prison, in the hollow cell of his own dark
loneliness, how he longed for the ejes of a
spirit I Like those of Margaret, were bis
feelings.
3 5 8 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
“ Still her gaze
la fixed upon the clouds that roll and fall
Afarbeyondthe ancient city’s wall;
And ‘were I tat a bird,’so runs her song
Halfthrough the night, and allthe wholeday long 1
Cheerful awhile,but mostly pensive, she
Now seems aaif ontwept—and then will be
Composedapparently*—
btrtlove-sick ever."
Perpetually thinking of his darling Phroditia,
be might have exclaimed with the suddenly
impassioned Faust—
“ What 1in her anna are allthe joys of Heaven 1
Oh 1let the rapture beunto me given
To glow with paaaion on her yieldedbreast!”
Slowly—sadly passed the day. The hours
seemed to ereep. Well indeed might the com­
plaint of the midden in love, forgotten and
abandoned to her desolation, have sorted with
Cuniqne’s condition!
“ Beneathdhe mouldering wall, no footstep near,
Under the blue expanse, serenely clear,
I waste the alow day—count the crawling hours,
Watching the trembling of the silent flowers.
byGoogle
THE SHIP OP 0 1 ^ 83. 259
0 1heart of mine, whichever way I torn,
The brightest things seem sad as lonelyurn
Shrined in a dim retreat, or sculptures rude
Standing a silence in a solitude.
0 1dark in sunshine—lone in crowds, I dwell
As a Spirit in a melancholy cell.
Where gushes only of a fountain nigh
Shall a sort of sound ofsilentaea supply.
Ifhint! My heartis ridel The lagging clouds
In the culm azure look but snowy shrouds.
LonelyI sit, and o'erthe sunny land
I throw my Mass eyes—my head upon my hand!”
At times Cuniqne's lore took a more de­
cided, andhopeful and vigorous turn. He felt
that he must do something;—that there was
much for him to do. His blood would mount
to bis forehead, his eyes would glisten, and
with step emit, and high determination and
proud daring, he would walk to and fro with
die airof a prince. Such would be his bear­
ing, that success was written in every lines-
2 6 0 THE SHIP Of GLASS.
meat You could not doubt It. All things
you would feel persuaded must yield to that
strength of purpose, and noble and uncon*
querable contempt of obstacles.
TBS SHIP OF GLASS. 261
CHAPTER XVI.
DESPAIB.
* This is the very eestacy of love;
Whose violentproperty fordoes itself,
t And leads the will to desperate undertakings,
As oft as any passion under Heaven,
That does afflict our natures.”
Shakespeare,
C c x iq lb ’s employments were now all changed.
He led a wandering, unsettled and unhappy
life. His dearest pleasure was to haunt about
the street in which Phroditis lived, and to
i.; X
IIS THE SHIP o r OLAM.
watch for what he thought her window, for he
had had no definite means of distinguishing it
when he made his hurried visit on the night
when Phroditis and he met.
Cnniqne’s prospects were, as regards his
love, not only by reason of the character of
the father of his adored, and the jealous watch*
fulness and absurd guard which was main­
tained over her, but also because Cunique's
own position was so unfavourable, almost hope­
less, This conviction would continually seize
him, notwithstanding his determination to
banish all such thoughts, and his exceedingly
eager and sanguine temperament, especially
when heightened by the presenoe of such a
passion. Indeed to such a love as Cuniqae’s,
which was an intense burning fire, occupying
bis whole soul, and scorching up and consum­
ing all cold doubts and weak-hearted scruples,
difficulties were nothing. Nay, they only
added fiiel to the flame. He felt positive that
he oeukl have done the most impossible things
Tttfc ® lf O* A
U
L
A
S*. 293
to win her. That he could face armies—
-that
he co id undergo the sharpest torments, that
he could go through ire and flood.; beyond
this, that b» was prepared, m the inex*
haustihlf dep of M* devotion cheerfully and
joyously to lay down his life in her cause* that
he could poor out Ms Mood if he vaa to be
solaced with tbe> pewuaeicu that it was for
her, and that aha would appreciate the saorW
ice.
Lora like Cuniqoe’a, busy and intent every
moment, night and day, upon the object which
it bad to gain, and which was the world’s
ambition to it, could not but outwatoh the
sternest and most uqtiring vigilance-*-could
but tire out the most unflagging resolution, and
vanquish insurmountable obstacles. It would
have put to deep the hundred-eyed Argua. It
would have exhausted Time himself, aad com­
pelled in its intensity even necessity to at last
give in before it, and forego resistance found
impracticable.
THB SHIP OF QLASS.
It may be easily supposed that Camque’*
mind, disturbed and in storm as it was, could
not supply him much assistance towards a very
important particular, the improvement of his
fortunes. They were indeed sunk to the very
lowest ebb.
A hundred times did despair rash in upon
him like an awful tide, and sweep away love,
the sense of life, and hope in irresistible, and
bitter and pitiless fury before it. Then he
would give up all for lost, curse his miserable
destiny fifty times a day, and stamp upon the
ground and cast his accusing, haggard, tearless
eyes to heaven, as if he were possessed! H e
would seem to ask, in that attitude of fiery
grief, what he had done that he should thus
be abandoned—outcast from hope. Why he
ahould be singled out for adversity’s sharpest
darts to be lavished upon, at every fresh
puncture—at every new woond his very heart’s
blood rushing. He would try to extort an end
to his sufferings. To pray that the miserable
THB •Brit' Of QLA88, 265
conflict might cease. With pleading face, and
in heart-broken tones, would he beg on his
knees that his agony might find its termina­
tion, and, if fate frowned upon his love, that
he might fall the sacrifice and die, and then
that he and his love should be forgotten
together.
As suddenly would Cacique’s mood change.
His excitement would consume itself: the tu­
multuous rapidity of his feelings would subside.
His thoughts—his passion ran entirely in ano­
ther channel—took a new direction. He would
clasp and press hishands together; tears would
run in riven from his eyes, and Btrange as it
would appear, for Cuuique was firm as a rock,
bold as a lion, fearing nothing in the world
that did not assail his feelings, he would weep
like a little child.
He thought continually of abandoning
his native city, once more seeing and
bidding adieu to Fhroditis, and taking ser­
vice with tiie governments of either of
two neighbouring provinces which were car-
von. L H
§66 •THE SHIP OF GLASS,
rying on a desultory war with one another,
and seeking an honourable grave, wherein
he could bury at once his love and disap­
pointment.
Meantime he sought all modes of seeing and
addressing Phroditis; but he was rarely suc­
cessful Fortune had been singularly propiti­
ous to him on that occasion* She seemed little
inclined to repeat her favours. She will often
grant to daring, when our feelings are not
engaged, and a chance solicitation, that which
she will afterwards deny to perseverance and
more earnest attempts; when our heart is with
us, and we really stand most in need of her
pity and assistance.
In Fhroditis’a lonely walks, little square
folded notes, tied with ribbon, and breathing
all the perfumes of Arabia, such as might have
softened the most rigorous bosom, and dis­
pelled even the the frosty distrust of the vigi­
lant Castilda, had she known the source of these
winged missives, would continually fall at her
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 187
feet. They were filled with such moving adju­
rations and such vows of endearment, that
Phroditis's heart, which was rapidly running
away from her; if not entirely gone, never to
be at disposal again, melted at them. She
would weep for a week over one; and then her
sorrow was only to recommence with the next
tender and melancholy appeal Footsteps
would be round her when she least looked lor
them, and where they might have been the
last things expected. Sighs met her ear at
every turning. Boses seemed to start up
from the earth for her. She could hardly
go to her window without token, or re­
ceiving some evidence of the love which was
pining for her. A very atmosphere of love
seemed to surround her. Every tone spoke it.
Love haunted the lonely moonlight Its eye was
in the Btars, and its voioe was found in the
wind, and in the tinkling fountain; in the
bosom of the still, and the flowing heart of the
moving waters. It rank into and subdued her
h 3
•268 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
It discovered its moat eloquent interpretation,
and choicest, and happiest expression in
Music: really such music as melted the heart,
and seemedtodissolve your beingin exstacy, but
exstacy with no slight tinge of sadness at the
same time.
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 2 9 6
CHAPTER XVII.
THE OLD PHILOSOPHER UNB0 RTHEHS HIS MIND
OF SOKE OF ITS AJiXIETIES.
“Merchant.—How ia the man esteemed here in the
city t •
Angelo.—Of very reverend reputation, sir,
Of credit infinite, highly beloved,
Second to none that Uveahere in the city.”
Comedy of Errors.
O ld Klypp still kept on the u even,” if not
“ noiseless tenonr of his way.” Activity reigned
in his yard; bnt all solicitude was gradually
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
embraced and monopolised by the wonderful
Ship of Glass.
It was now fast approaching completion: its
transparent planks were laid, its timbers of glass
were bowed and fastened, and like silver pillars,
or, to speak poetically, like frozen lines of
moonlight,rose its spiry masts in slender, point­
ing diminution. The silver yards were crossed,
and the filmy cordage rove.
A t this stage of the construction of his
ship, the cautious old Klypp, though he would
by no means permit of indiscriminate examina­
tion, yet allowed the grandees and chief
people of Tafna-Khalifas and the country
round to enter bis yard under certain restric­
tions, and proper pledges that the satisfaction
of their curiosity should be limited to the magic
vessel.
All held up their hands at it. So remarka­
ble a thing was never seenj nor in all their
lives had the people heard of such a strange
vagary entertained, much less wrought up to
THE 8HIP 0F GLASS, 271
absolute fact) actually accomplished, and placed
there before their eyes, as a ship to be built
out of glass. But there it stood, in all its
magnificent dimensions, to contradict the per­
suasion of its impossibility;—an existing, sub­
stantial record of the originality of Klypp’s
genius, ami the transcend&nt and unapproacha­
ble capacity of his handicraftsmen. Glorious
—pretematurally brilliant did she look, yet so
light mid fragile, that she every moment
threatened to tumble to pieces and scatter her­
self in glass dust. As she upreared herself
there, shiny and silent, she looked like a pre­
cious monster silver model. She looked in the
light like a hail cloud momentarily reduced to
drop, its myriad of stary ice-gems prismati-
cally gUttering, and shooting abroad a world of
bright beams.
It was one morning that Eiypp in his furred
gown, with a'black velvet scull-cap on his
bald head, and his right hand, shrivelled and
yellow as parchment, with the stray bine veins
THE SHIP OF GI.AS8.
to bis long and attenuated fingers, grasping a
roll of that to which we have likened his hand,
was walking in his yard, before his famous
Ship of Glass, in company with Toss Tongue­
less one of his principal foremen already men­
tioned.
Klypp’a face instantly impressed the be­
holder. You were persuaded you were looking
on a remarkable man. The mental gifts of
nature, tokens of pre-eminent intelligence and
comprehensive capacity, were displayed in
every lineament.
His head was finely formed, and his fore­
head rose high and massive, without a wrinkle,
but with every inflection and indentation, par­
ticularly at the temples, and taking the form
of distinct and defined but not violent curves
at the sides of the lateral arch constituted by
the forehead, which phrenologists have been in
the habit of ascribing to men of commanding
talent. He was bald at the crown of the bead,
but tresses of silver grey descended on either
Google
THE 8HXP OF GLASS. 2 7 3
side, and Imparted such » majesty, such grave
handsomeness, It might absolutely have been
ealled beauty, to Ha countenance, that in its
noble expression and startling impressiveness
you could have thotigbt that you were contem­
plating, grown on to age, the impersonation of
the Phidian Jupiter.
Stately beyond all comparison was was the
step and gait of this old Spanish philosopher.
He moved slowly, and with all the dignity that
we associate with the venerated and and vene­
rable personages of antiquity. His features
were excellent, but his nose was sharpened
and his cheeks were fallen in, and there was a
•allow hue, though it was clear enough, on his
cheek, and precision and fineness in the lines
about bis face, and the acutely chiselled curves
congregating round bis lips and classic chin,
all which told of years of study and nightly
toil, and grinding, laborious and consuming
thought. His beetling brows gathered over
his thoughtful eyes like shaggy promontories
n 5
2 7 4 THE SHIP OF G
LA
SS.
crowning hollow caves, whose unfathomable
darkness invites and fascinates whilst it awes
and terrifies you, you scarcely know why.
His was the sort of face which might look
down upon you in an ancient bust, whose im­
moveable sternness and majesty sublime were
as the marble in which they were wrought.
That intent, self-wrapt visage, heavy like a
monster thunder-cloud,with its own weight of
thought, inflexible and passionless in its supers
naturaldreamsandmore than mortal light,seem­
ing deepened and intensified to that solidity by
the awe and terror of the secrets which it
hints, would have glared at you from dila­
pidated pedestals, shrouded in shadows, and
cold, and grey and ponderous — ponderous,
grey and cold as the Hand of Death
itseir.
Klypp Heufueros’ dress was a gown of
brown velvet with flowing folds, and with a
border of sables. He wore shoes of rough lea­
ther on his feet, each of which bore on the in-
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 275
step a small crescent of silver whose cuspid
points very nearly met
Kiypp’a companion, Toss Tongoelesa, was
more like an image than a man. So stiffly did
he step, that he hardly seemed to walk but
glide—to pass forward and away from you
like a mist or a ghost. So peculiar was this
walk, that be seemed to slip along on a plat'
form. And he always preserved such a com­
mendable silence, that he never spoke except
when he was obliged.
So upright was Tew in mind and body, that
he was a truer perpendicular than one of the
steeples on his master’s, the great Kiypp’
a
house.
Klypp Heufueroe, and his faithful compa­
nion, right hand man, and trusted adherent,
Tom, snrnamed Tongueless, were walking up
and downin the ship-yard, engaged in debate
upon Klypp’s grand scheme of discovering the
undiscoverable island by means of the Ship
of Glass.
2 7 6 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
“ How say you. Toss?” enquired Klypp.
“ Are the people so fearful? Do they so much
want courage ? Am I to be visited by the re­
collection that I belong to such a dastardly,
mean-spirited town, that nothing is to be ven­
tured in the cause of science, and the
resolution of that which has made the
whole country’s thought by day and dream
by night ?”
:: For time immemorial,”added Toss.
“ And at this moment, too,” continued
Klypp, “ when we may look upon the whole
work done, all labour, and all speculation
at an end, and the grand discovery made.”
“ Dear master, so it is,” answered Toss,
“ and it gr'eveth me sorely to have to report
such backwardness and backsliding to you.
People’s eyes sparkle when I talk to them of
making this grand discovery; men, women—
□ay, the.little children; old and young, all
crowd round me when I enlarge upon your
stupendous exertions towards this event which
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 2tt
is to enrich them for ever, uni immortalize the
age- Buttheyonlylisten. Intentlydothey dwell
upon each word which falls from my lips; and
when I speak of you, a murthur of admiration
runs through the crowd. All bow their heads
when you are named, as a man mighty
in renown, and worthy of all respect and
honour.”
“ Go on. I am shamed—I ampained; but
go on,” said Klypp.
“ Every one is in delight and wonder at the
Ship of Glass:—every one feels sure that you
have rightly read the prophecy of the wonder­
ful woman, Tomanraita. But, alas ! when I
propose the navigating of the ship; tell the
crowd she is destined to put out to sea and
brave the perils of the great trackless ocean;
that she is built and rigged, ready to launch,
and only awaits volunteers for crew and cap­
tain—when I approach the sum, and total, and
head and front and object of our business, all
draw back, their countenances sink, they drop
ii'O1
'C
218 THE SHIP OF OI.A&
from my side, and seek to discover in each
other’s looks that courage and devotion to
the mighty object each finds wanting in him*
self!”
“ 1 was not prepared for this,” murmured
Klypp. Grieved—deeply grieved do I feel I
I f that monumentOfmyskill, andtriumphofmy
penetration,” Klypp continued, pointing with
his roll of parchment to the Ship of Glass,
“ be destined to remain in inglorious inactivity
within the cinoture of my ship-yard, then I
am a lost man ! If her crystal prow be denied
to stem the bright blue waves—if it be pro­
nounced that she shall not cleave her arrowy
path of light across the sunny sea—if from
this place she may not move, forbidden to glide
into that wonderful element which inviteth her,
and to which she was born—which should be
her home, her kingdom, and the scene of the
accomplishment of her everlasting renown—
then am I nought I Spirits of the great philo­
sophers of old 1 mighty shadows of antiquity I
THE SHIT OF GLASS. 279
the great of ages long passed bat anforgotten
—the lights of an intelligence buried but un­
surpassed—all capableand unapproachable, if it
be written that the fruit of m
ay labour be never
to be gathered—
that that honour I may not see
for which I have so dearly contended—
to which
I have sacrificed peace, health, and life, 0 then
■naythy glassy ribs, thou mook, thou frostwork
bauble of the idle hourin which thou wert con­
ceived—
thou extravagant and impossible vision
of a besotted brain, thou taunt, thou toy, fall
like magic to pieces! May’st tbou be
dispelled like an ice-bespangled vapour; pass
away like a Dream whose shadowy shape con­
tracts, collapses and fieeth away before the
keen vengeful arrows of the God of Light 1
May thy translucent flesh wither, parch and
consume, and thy crystal armament of bones
fall crashing to the stones, at once thy cradle
and the giant grave into which thou sinkest 1
Fall thou in sparkling rain, like a cloud of
light struck by a spell and reduced to starry
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
drops, a victim to inexorable Destiny, and a
glorious mausoleum to the mechanician Klypp,
for I will be coffined within thee !”
There was a pause, for Toss Tongueless bad
too much respect to interrupt the fit of ab­
straction into which Klypp fell after his last
excited speech.
“ They are afraid, I suppose,” at length
asked Klypp.
“ They shake their heads, honoured master,"
returned Toss. “ They fear everything. Even
the mariners tremble, and, to say truth, a
voyage in a ship of glass would seem a formid­
able undertaking. They doubt the coherency
and substantiality of the material, dear sir, in
which we have worked. All admit that you
have made out the prophecy ; but the con­
ditions are very hard ”
“ They are so’” said Klypp; but I cannot
help that. Repeat to me, my dear friend, my
conditions and the prophecy, that I may com-
„Google
THE SHIP Of GLAM. 281
pure them. Bat I have already done so, and
see clearly that these are indeed the stipulations
of this too filial undertaking.”
“ ‘ The bold most put forth with his one
life to win a doable,’” said Toss Tongaeless
in obedience to the command of his master,
and he said the words as slowly and distinctly
aa if he wanted each syllable, and die extent
of what was expected, to beimpressed upon his
patron’s recollection.
“ The courageous and the bold mnst win this
alone,” cried Klypp; “ it could be no part for
the weak and faint-hearted. Winning, be
would win a doable life in glory and in trea­
sure, and in the greatness he would bring to
his country. I addressed myself to the great
of heart, bat I find not one—cannot find
one.”
“ ‘ His ship mnst be of woven light’" con­
tinued Toes.
“ His ship mast be of glass, and there she
stands,” re-echoed Klypp.
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
“ *Ami shadowless must be his crew,’ ”
repeated Tos?, endeavouring to make his
master understand the full force ofevery word;
—“ ‘and shadowless must be his crew.” ’
“ That I have already explained,” said
Klypp, “ and imposed it as one of my con­
ditions. By my prescience I perceive the
drift of this enunciation. Language may be
esteemed the shadow of man marking the way
his steps take. His mental path is as clearly
indicated by his speech—movement by move­
ment, step by step—as his bodily direction by
the shadow which accompanies him and follows
his earthly form as his words follow his
spiritual No tongue must be heard—no word
must be spoken aboard that ship, from the
day she leaves the land until that eventful
hour when she drops anchor on the unknown
bottom. A word would break the spell. Her
magic protection would cease, and some vast
and annihilating calamity would overtake her.
All my conditions observed, the ship will sail'
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 283
in safety—‘ hands will touch and win.* Oh
that they might, and that I might find the
hero who would navigate her.”
“ All are aghast at the shipof glass, andsacri-
icing their lives in what they denounce as cer­
tain rain-sailing to death.”
“ Men of little faith!” returned Klypp. “ Do
they not know that where the will is firm all
tilings yield ? That there is no danger to the
bold of heart and constant of mind;—that
nothing is impossible to the determined. That,
ander God, the elements themselves yield to
man when be is resolved.”
“ The men of the sea ask,”said TomTongue-
less with sincerity to his master, though with
some diffidence, “bow they should navigate a
ship, if they are not permitted to speak.”
“ By -signal,” returned Klypp. “ Signal-
sign by hand—each to other That ship must
be voiceless as the sea itself. She must be
Nature personified in discovery of nature, hat
nature silent—wordless with the words of mao.
284 THU SHIP OF GLASS.
Sacred, resigned, given up must Bhe be to the
spirits of the elements; and if the; be not
affronted with the nun talk of mortals, the;
will accept the trust. Toss, is there no man
who will undertake this glorious but daring
enterprise?”
1
1
1
1Not a man, my honoured master, that I
know o£ All shrink uni am silent.”
“ What is health, what life, what the world
to me, to this one grand object of my exis­
tence !” ejaculated Klypp. “ One other chance
■hall be tried. My daughterI Lovely is she
as the opening day, bright as paradise, holy
as the dream of dying sunt. She Bhall be
the prize of that man who shall navigate my
ship, steer her to sea, and, whether soon or at
some remote period, in whatever time he shall
effect it, or whenever he shall return with
those glorious proofs of his success, crown the
prime objeot, and dearest and highest hope,
and precious fancy of my soul with certainty.
And with this jewel of my life, my last, my
H B SHEF O f GLAM. 285
dearest treasure, my heart of hearts, my sun,
toy day, my fellow life, shall go the half of my
fortune.”
Toes Tongueless, surprised at this last decided
proofof hispatron’s munificence,tookoffhiscap,
knelt down on one knee, seized the band of his
master, imprinted a kiss upon it, then arose
and gave such a cheer that the very yard
re-echoed.
A t this moment a sound of military music,
as of the triumphant march of soldiery into the
town, disturbed the echoes of Tafna-Khalifas,
and was wafted over into Klypp’s shipbuilding
yard among his ships and machinery.
Klypp Heufheros cast his eyes np the avenue
and perceived four or five of his people, who
directly they caught sight of their, master,
approached him with high deference, though
with every token of haste. When they had
arrived quite close, they each gave a talaem in
the Moorish fashion, at which Elypp slightly
inclined his head.
THE SHIP o r GLASS.
“ What brought ye hither, my children?”
asked Klypp: “ what want ye with me,
and what is the meaning of this noise of
music I have beard, which just seems enter­
ing the city ?”
“ Noble sir,” answered the foremost, the
Governor has arrived, and asks to be ad­
mitted to the privacy of the renowned man of
science, the great Klypp Heufueros.”
“ Doth he wish to visit me here, or desireth
he that I should sally forth from my own
ground?" demanded Klypp.
■ “ Noble sir, he is waiting you at the gate of
Alcala-rosas, and he sent forward two of his
men of honour to request that you would
trouble yourself to attend him."
“ ’Tie.well! I come to him,” replied Klypp.
“ Toss, your arm. Let my great gates be
opened, and closed behind me, and all work
cease and no hammer ring whilst I confer
with our lord the Governor.”
........i
TBS SHIP OF GLASS. 287
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE GOVERNOR ARRIVES; AND AN UNEXPECTED
INTRODUCTION.
“ I sawhis heart in his face. Give me thy hand.
Be pilot to me, and thy places shall
Still neighbour mine. My ship is ready.*
Winter'* Talc.
“ Come hither, herald,—let the trumpet sound,
And read out this.
Officer. Sound trumpet {A trumpet sound*.)"
K%ng Iscar.
W hen Klypp emerged out of his -gates into
the street, he saw the gorgeous procession of
the Governor stopping at some little distance
288 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
off, apparently in expectation of the arrival
of the great philosopher whose fame filled the
country.
Klypp, followed by Toss Tongueless aud
Andreas Stiffaspoker, and a train of his prin­
cipal and best-looking artisans, made haste
past the glittering files of the guards of the
Governor, and presented himself in all form
to that magnificent functionary.
Tophaik Calumet, the ruler of Altosierro,
was a man of about fifty years of age. He
was attired in a glittering suit of armour, and
wore on his head a coronet indicative of his
/
rank, with four aspiring ostrich feathers. His
breast blazed with jewels; he grasped in his
hand an ivory baton tipped with gold; and
his mien was noble and imposing to a very
high degree. He was mounted on a superb
barb, whose matchless blood spoke out in every
movement. The animal was a pure white,
and the trappings with which he was loaded
clattered with gold and precious stones
a
y
Google
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 289
Tophaik was surrounded with knights and
gentlemen, all ia magnificent costomai, and
mounted on some of the finest horses to be
found in the whole country. Plnmes wared,
armour glittered, andswords and spears glanced
in all directions.
Pennons and pennoncelles, banners and
bannerolles gleamed above the heads of the
crowd, who were kept back to respectful dis­
tance by tall arbaletriers, or crossbow-men in
crimson kirtles and shining steel morions.
Behind Tophaik Calumet was carried a flag
bearing his ensigns armorial, ruby, two lions,
passant yuardaitt, in pale, topaz, for Altosi-
erro; a chief, topaz, fretty, sapphire, for
Tafna-Khalifas.
As Klypp approached the Governor, Tophaik,
as a mark of high respect to the philo­
sopher in receiving him |on foot beckoned
for two of bis pages to attend him, qne
to hold the horse, and another the stirrup,
and quickly and gracefully dismounted. He
VOL. L o
2 9 0 THE SHIP OF GI.ASS.
then embraced KJypp, who bowed Ijpad
with grave submission.
“ Distinguished for ever may tbip day be
in the calendar, and m^rk^ed for honour in all
the records of Tafna^Kbalifa$. pod Altoperro,
which affords me an opportunity of testifying in
person, apd upon ap occasion so niptqqntoqs,
my lpgh consideration fqr. thee, renowned
father. I have paid this visit to TafpprKhali-
fa? for the purpose of seeing apd embracing
thee. I comp to present thep a thousand
thanks, not only in,pry own qarpq, but fqr all the
people of a,couptry;which.shall be sq,ipdqbted
to thy genjup, apd who willjOwpthe. brightest,
page iu tjieir history, and.their chiefest, glory
to thy talents, thy perseverance, in short, to
thee. Thou art,frpm henceforth opr country^
gpjde, its light* ifc. trueaid- Wonderful man !
thou hast regd: tha,t mystic propbfcy. aright.
I. epvy thee the, profound, penetration with
which nature hath gifted thee. Most of all
I t Digitized by G O O O I C
■
•THE S ill)1 Ofr GLASS. 291
an I-dtfoek vt4(b Chat ‘happy guess by which
thou bast secured 'an ‘immortality -to thy­
self, %
od vt'dahli incalculable, and prot.t
vtot,%nd honoarenddringto tbit land which
hath bteodme the eOtiiftfy of tbinfe fedoption.
I have eotoe putffoeBly hOte Xo proffer toy as*
'sntonee riMmld’si *tbdu ftaild ia -need df -it.
•iak, led my 1»##er «MI I* 'totoUlei fen*thee,
i will ‘Stretch ftfth «iy Imid Ho 'Makfe thy
W
O
ffcf t hvWll.”
“ NdWe iirt #o#iKy of -all hidnetfr, and
much more thdS can be rendered thfeteby the
eld philosopher•3£lypp,‘” hepdiefl fhe-Mbchani-
•euU, “toy atrip is -built, and ready fdr ada:
-hat I have not a stogie Hdluntddr 9h this
-glorious dtttfte-; -no one is ‘
prepared, bWving
all the •risks of this mtoaefrtoto voyage, and
miking ail -HMrifioeh for Hhe honour f t con­
ducting it, to advance and place himself
in nJy bahds. ^No, though the rewards are
the applause df a whole country, and the
o 3
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
hand of the loveliest maiden in Tafna-Khtlifas.
Cold of heart, unsteady of purpose, weak in
resolution, dull, feeble and cowardly, they are
afraid of venturiug themselves to sea in a
ship of the apparently fragile material in
which, in strict and faithful accordance with
the oracle, I have wrought. There stands my
ship—the Ship of Glass! There is the vessel,
honourable spectators, destined to discover a
new world of wonders: but she requires a
captain; that captain stands in need of a ship’s
company.”
" And is it true there cannot be found
one man...none of our courageous mariners...
perilous though the enterprise must be ad­
mitted, bold enough to engage himself in the
cause! 1 could feel almost tempted to devote
myself to this marvellous trial,” said the
Governor.
“ There are multitudes of chivalrous and
knightly hearts,” said one of the Governor’s
rax satp o f o la sb . 2 9 3
attendants, whose name was Ferdinsndo <
Je
Ldon, “ -ready to dare <every*hing carrying a
cbance of ecmitag alive eat of the ordeal. I
m s answer for myself-^for all the noble
knights ahd gallant gentlemen in presence.
But to resign oneself to certain destruction, is
asking mere than may be expected from even
the fool-hardy.”
“ YoOr Ship of Glass, learned Klypp,” said
-theG overnor, “**urt beexposedto the dangers
incident to its material. Yoo bannot pro­
mise—
-it is faipeeSlble that yoit cha insafe, that
it e U he exempt from the oefb destruction
which weald folk* on its putting to sea and
striking aught.*’
*
*I cannot, noble jgovsrner,” answered
Klypp: “ no man could. -Still am I assured
confidence in me—faith in the fortunes of the
•hip would protect it If there he no fear, 'she
Will be indestructible.”
“ Bat where is sank firmness to be found ?’*
replied Tophaik with gentleness, and with a
294 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
troubled brow, for he heartily desired less dif­
ficulty to surround the undertaking. ■ “ And
you impose a severe and terrifying injunction.
There must be no word heard...nothing must
be spoken aboard this charmed ship.”
“ No word of man,” returned Klypp.
“ Then would the spell of safety be snapped in
twain. Destruction immediate and irreparable
would follow the breaking of my interdiction.”
•“ We are surrounded with perplexity,” said
Toph&ik. “ Nevertheless shall an exertion be
made to assist thine astonishing work to trial.
We will exhaust all means to bring that gallant
ship afloat; and, to that end, will I publish,
under my own authority, an invitation to the
people, that a volunteer may be found from
amongst them. Let us not yet despair, noble
friend!”
Saying these words, Tophaik Calumet, with
an appearance of hope which he did not feel,
mounted his horse, commanded the people to
be pressed back and a square to be made, and
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 295
placed himself, with Klypp At his right hand,
one hand grasped in that of the venerable
philosopher, and with all his glittering retinue
around him, at one side of it. He then or­
dered the trumpets to sound a flourish, the
banners to be widedisplayed, and the herald to
pronounce after him, with a loud voice, the
following proclamation.
“ The Lord and Governor, Calumet, Prince
of Tafna-Ehalifas and Altosierro, maketh
known, publisheth, and proclaimed, that any­
one willing to embark aboard and navigate the
Ship of Glass, destined for a voyage for dis­
covery of the Fortunate Island, shall step
forward. He must in all things submit to the
direction and impositions of the renowned
philosopher Klypp Heufueros, now in presence.
Besides the high honour, and all the rewards
consequent upon success, the Prince Tophaik
Calumet promiseth his favour and friendship,
and thirty gold ingots from the governor’s
treasury, each a foot and a half in circumfer-
2 m Tfrfc SBtt* -OF. ■UlAilS.
«nce uni three feet long. The -high and
mighty PrStacfeTophaik Calumet aJbo engageth,
upon hit safe return, to Create the successful
adventurer knight, and to augment his pater­
nal COM, should he hate each, if not to
bestow upon him, a new coat, to 1
m
s
grunted and Ceded to, end to be enjoyed by
him and his posterity for ever: Azure, a
galley, argent; in chief, a MarOf six points,
or; as emblematic and C
ommemorative of his
aohievcment, and the gliding and propitious
destiny which-presided over i t ”
When this proclamation was ended, the
trumpets sounded thrice. All remained silent
in the Crowd. The site was only teen to shine
in the breastplates of the Governor's guards.
A frown gathered over the brow of Top-
balkCalumet, and ht -was just about to turn
to the philosopher Klypp, with disappointment
msd mortification expressed in every feature,
when a voice was beard.
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 297
“ And is this all promised for the discovery
of the Fortunate Island, or will more follow ?”
All turned their heads to look at each other;
but die speaker could nowhere be seen.
Klypp and the Governor whispered together
for some moments; and then, in compliance
with fresh directions, the trumpets sounded
again, and the herald’s voice was heard.
“ This is not all! Klypp Heufueros, the
Mechanician of Tafna-Khalifas, promiseth his
fair daughter, Phroditis, in marriage, and with
her half Ms fortune, to the man who is suc­
cessful in discovering the island, and bringeth
back convincing proofs of his good fortune.”
At this succession of magnificent proposals,
inducements which might have tempted the
faintest of heart to risk something, and im­
pelled tie courageous at once to have offered
closed by old Klypp’s engagement, which
seemed the grandest and most valuable
of all, so surely as Phroditis was likely to be
coveted before all the honours, and all the gold
o 5.
THE SHI* OF GLASS.
»nd.jewels is the GrdFfcriKfr*s trt!a try, aye,
and fifty otbar treasuries betides as ridh
bribe -followed dn %
hb hfeete of the one pre­
ceding, there 'were murmurs ^ptfeai Ire in the
crowd.
Min’
* eyas r
gS4fehed. Th'Crfe W
ai as much
bustle -as could <beconsistent With 'tlie respetet
due to (the presence of 4hbii0v#ftidt, 'and the
awe in Whidh everybody -stood of ]flypp the
Philosopher. -At last,-aud when the prochrtna-
■tkm*was ended, breaking in like -a 'boidteVoas
tide O
n the «hriH ttnfcnpets, <rose a mighty
cheer. It shook the steeples, tod died off in
distant -echoes amongst the remote deserted
streets.
But now there Was an agitation in the
crowd. Men looked -bach. They tfe&nod to
-be making Way for some person who Was ad<-
vanoing through the multitude. There was '*
sound of voices, tod an -ekmtement
“ Among the gloomy cowls and glittering spears.'
TRP 8UIf Of OX^Km. 2 9 9
A,{jack of eoaijpotigp—>
a path of bustle, as it
might bpve been characterised, seemed to be
serpentining through tbe assembly. And at
lust, et one pqipt the crowd broke apart, two
crossbow-mpo stopped aside who were engaged
in endeavpuripg to restore order in this part
of tbe congregation, and Cunique, in the same
dress,in, which, he:made bis appearance before
Phroditis, but enveloped in a Urge mantle,
whose clustering folds thickened about bis
shoulders, stept, into tbe squares apd strode
quickly towards the group formed by the
Governor, Klypp, and tbe retinue.
“ Who have we Ippe?” cried the Governor.
“ A spiritedrlookiqg person; but rather;slight
for the task, if he. coppes to propose hiroaelf-
for it ! Who art thou, friend?”
“ Ope who presents himself before you,
mighty Prince,, to accept the conditions, navi-.
gate the Sh«P of Glass, and brave all risks. I
will embark in the glass Bhap, put to sea in
THE SHIT OP GLASS.
her, and, if heaven favour xny endeavours,
will discover the fortunate island I Blessed,
thrice blessed shall I be, if I am successful!
If I fail, I will bury myself and my misfor­
tunes together, sink in the vessel entrusted to
me, but never return to acknowledge a failure.
I devote myself to this trial, and am willing
and prepared,should such bethe decree of fate,
to offer myself sacrifice.”
“ Noble youth I he has my blessing,” ex­
claimed old Klypp, “ and fortune will go with
him. At last have I found one who will put
my scheme to test. Courage and perseverance
are written in his face. This is the youth of
whom I have dreamt. If he is fortunate, happy
—happy shall I be. But if he fails—I must
not think of it 1
”
“ Have you well considered your proposal ?”
asked Tophaik Calumet. “ Have you reflected
on the chancesagainst you—on the sort of ship
in which you shall be summoned to embark ?
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 301
Are yon prepared to share her fortunes, should
she swim or sink?”
u I am,” answered Cnnique. *
*Whether
die remain on the surface, and I draw breath
upon her glassy deck, or whether she go to
the bottom; for, in that case, life will be
valueless, and it will be happiness to forget
myself, and to be forgotten. 1 am
'prepared—
happy to venture all in her. To stake hopes
and life upon her. To abide her fortunes, be
they for good or be they for eviL Let me
be identified with her;—too happy to have
my name associated with hers, considering the
cause in which I am engaged 1
”
u What should he that cause?” demanded
the Prince. Is it the disclosure of this mys­
tery ? Is it the discovery of the Island ?”
“ It is not,” answered Cunique.
“ You say it is not,” repeated Tophaik.
“ What then can be this powerful motive which
leads yon to peril life in what all must allow
s desperate enterprise? Destiny, by rendering
VOL. Is P
THE SHIP Or GLASS.
the means of discovery so impossible, has
thrown an impassable barrier around this won­
derful island. Would'st thon dare natural
contradictions? and has thy motive force
enough to supply thee strength to do it ?”
. “ It has, and more,” replied Clinique.
“ T is a base thought to deem that the love
of gold—the lust of treasure, is what urges
thee forward in this thine absolute search after
danger. What other men avoid—what they
shrink from, thou covetest.”
(l I dare all,” cried Cunique, with a devotion
which spoke out in every word and look, *
*for
all that is dear to me on this side of the grave.
Happy shall I be if I win that jewel for which
I become pilgrim. If the risk is great, the
stake is coextensive with it. Through clouds,
storm and darkness ; through doubt, anddiffi­
culty, and danger; through all obstacles, and
in the face o f every discouragement—every
peril, will I onward:—onward still with the
constant heart and the unflinching hand. I
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 3 0 3
succeed $r perish;—happy to die in a cause
$osacred, to which my poor life were nothing!
I am here—I have spoken—I have professed
for the task. Am I accepted ?”
“ Thou art, brave youth,” returned the
Governor; "and may good fortune go with
thee, and that 1 may welcome thee back in tri­
umph! Thou shall have all thou askest to
speed thee in thy enterprise. Thou shall be
furnished forth like any prince. With the
concurrence of her projector and builder, the'
unapproachable Klypp Heufueros, I name and
constitute thee Captain of the Ship of Glass;
and all with which science ran furnish thee
or art supply, or my anxiety provide or autho­
rity exact, shall be thine to the utmost of thy
wishes. Say, reverend Klypp, have I spoken
well ?—have I spoken as thou approvest ?”
“ To the very letter, my most noble lord
and governor,” answeredKlypp.
“ Thus then shall we proceed,” rejoined
the Prince. “ Our business is for the present
304 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
condniei. Sir Stranger, thoo wilt have need
of men to navigate this vessel; bat I am
more than afraid that thou wilt look out in
vain for willing assistants. Be not east down,
for I have expedients to supply this want.
Ferdinando de Leon,” continued Tophaik, ad­
dressing oneofhis distinguished officers, “ how
many prisoners entered Tafna-Khalifas this day
underthine escort?”
“ One hundred and fifty Moore we cap­
tured,” replied Ferdinando de Leon. Each
is a heathen hound that worships idols of
metal, of wood, and of stone.”
“ How many men, respected father,” asked
Tophaik Calumet of Klypp,4
1must embark in
thine enchanted ship P
“ Five and twenty souls, resigning speech,
upon penalty of destruction, until they drop
anchor after leaving our port,” replied Klypp.
“ Thus then do we adjudge the number to
be made up,” said Tophaik Calumet “ Ferdi­
nando, choose twelve of the most active and
C,( c ;
THE SHIP OF GLA8S. 305
dexterous of these Moore, clothe them in a
sailor costume, and let them be prepared to
embark. Alphonso D’Astorga, thou art Admiral
of the Sallies, go, assemble all the seamen of
the port of Tafna-Khalifas. Inform them of
this arduous duty we impose upon those chosen
out of their number, and, if thou- should’st
hate no volunteers, cast lots, and take men to
the number of twelve. Should they refuse
or make resistance, they shall be sent to sea,
as punishment for their contumacy, in a boat
without oars, sails or rodder, and left to
perish. This double twelve, with their leader
and captain, this gallant stranger, will com­
plete the number twenty-five. 1 invest him
with absolute and unlimited command over
this number of twenty-four men, to be solemnly
sworn, the Christians upon the Holy Gospels,
and the heathen half of the crew by their
gods, to rest under his orders, and to obey
him as 1 should be obeyed. Language must
be dead amongst them from the hour they
THE SHIP O
F G
LA
SS.
embark, on pain of being cast into the sea.
Let them well understand the Ship of Glass
is a lost ship if a word be uttered aboard her—
if the silence be for an instant broken. At that
moment will she fall to pieces of herself. So
announces her constructor, and so do I be­
lieve. Ferdinando de Leon and Alphonso
D’Astorga, conduct your contingents to the
Square of St. Michael, whither 1 and the
architect of the vessel, and her captain, now
proceed. I will see these men, address them
and administer the oath myself. Death is their
lot if they infringe one tittle of these com­
mands.”
THE END OF VOLUME THE FIRST.
THE
SHIP OF GLASS;
on,
THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND.
A ROMANCE,
IN THREE VOLUMES.
BY
HARGRAVE JENNINGS.
AUTJIOB OF “ NT MARINE MEMORANDUM BOOK,” &C.
“ ‘ There was a Ship,’quoth he.”
Coleridgds Ancient Mariner.
VOL. IL
L O N D O N :
THOMAS CAUTLEY NEWBY, PUBLISHER,
72, M ORTIM ER S t., CAVENDISH Sq.
T! l SUIP OF GLASS.
CHAPTER I.
TAFNA-KHAUFA9. THE SAILING O
F THE SHIP.
" The ship was cheered, the harbour cleared,
Merrily did we drop
Below the kirk, belowthe hill,
Below the light-house top.
The sun came up upon the left,
Out of the sea came he;
And he shone bright, andon the right
Went down into the sea.”
C o l e r i d g e .
Three days after the events of the last chap*
ter, waB the Ship of Glass launched and
V
O
T. II. B
THE aun> OP GLASS.
riding in the harbour of Tafna-Khalifas, in
anticipation of her wonderful voyage.
Klypp Heufueros, who was an a trologer in
addition to all hia other acquirement*, had
constructed schemes and consulted the aspect
of the planets. He had approved the third
night, at the full of the moon, for the sailing
of his ship.
Bright, beautiful was the night. The sky
was of the richest purple hue—deep, placid
and profound. It is quite impossible to de­
scribe the transparency, the purity of it. It
looked like half a dozen Italian skies at mid­
night, all melted into one, with more stars
shining than have been visible on all the sepn-,
rate nights since the foundation of the world.
Clear, bright blue, like sapphire, or like liquid
blue light, poured and spread out like a sea,
and sparkling with ten thousand lights for ships,
grouped in places into squadrons and fleets,
and in other directions strewn and scattered
like single lonely cruisers steering in silent
:iC3C3"i:?'!t:
THX SHIP Of GLASS. 3
steady course % mighty continents of cloud
and floating islands, with innumerable broken
or sweeping shadows for rocks and cliff and
spiry points, on whose piercing tops would
perhaps burn small lancet-shaped flames—a
monstrous purple mantle like richest velvet
smooth and soft, powdered, or in heraldic lan­
guage temeed, with a myriad of silver dotting
spangles, were the heavens,
“Thestars came thick over the twilight sea.
Mountains of ice, Kke sapphire, piled onhigh.
Hemming the horison round, in silence lay
On the still waters,”
There were islands of the most beautiful,
and the most fantastic shapes in the sky. All
wei"e moving slowly—majestically,as onegrand
airy panorama. The sky was so flooded, so
suffused, so interpenetrated with moonlight,
that it was more than moonlight; it was only
a dimmer, holier kind of day—a spirit or a
fairy day. On one side of the heavens were
a 3
■
e
i >o lie
THE SHIP Of GLASS.
ramparts of cloud, Hack and solid as Mack'
marble itself, rolled, and graded, and serried—
nay, terraced in long embattled lines like the
bristling fortifications of some elfin king, or
the walls of one of the Kingdoms of the Invisi­
ble. As these giddy pinnacles, and haughty
promontories, and baseless turrets, screwed up
by the circularly moving winds from out
of the heart, of the pliant clouds, towered
aloft above the range of less aspiring
masses, each seemedto emerge, and spring into
a sky of light of its own. A little land of
such scenery as might be expected in the moon,
tossed into the strangest and most unnatural
shapes, and appearing like an illuminated
realm above the grandeur, and the darkness,
and the hollow mystery of the substantial,
gigantically deepened and broadened base,
extended with its shivered shadows, and its
profusely scattered lights, as a top stratum or
upper independent half, above those
THE SHIP OP GLASS. s
“Platforms-*f the wind.”
on which it was borne along.
Farther off were thousands of curls, and
wreathe, and twists of brilliant vapour, twining
and interweaving, and flung over the azure like
lucent fret-work Tie sky, indeed, was such
as might have been seen over an enchanted
island, or spreading above haunted ground,
from which the glancing fays and slender
spirits might be descried rising in tiny chains,
and joining hands and twining their gracefully
lithe limbs around the long straight moon­
beams, like lily bells and pearly pendants
scrolled and voluted around silver wires. One
touch of such a sky would make an artist’s
fortune, and be the wonder of the world.
In front was the wide trackless sea:—
a glassy desert whose ripples were light. It
extended, a shining plain, or rather a succession
of plains, some in shadow, some illuminated,
an J some in which both shadow and illumina-
6 TOE SHIP OF GLAM.
tion seemed contending. Then was the con*
flict between light and shadow, like the mystic
and spiritual antagonism between the Peri and
Dives powers of the ancient Persian mytho­
logy-
Over the sea shone the m o o n a gigantic
orb; a world of light, whose pure effulgence
invested and covered everything with surpass­
ing glory, marking oat every wave and firing
it with white light asit rose above the restlessly
heaving mass of waters. So thickly were
the moonbeams showered down, that they
looked like lines of nun ova the sea, except
that they were broader. If the sky was deep
sapphire set with the “ stelied ires,” the sea
was regal purple; but when It turned into
light it glittered ike shattered silver. ' The
round clear circle of the queen of night, broad
and bright as the shield of a Celestial Power
displayed for angelic conflict, was distinctly
printed on its dark back-ground, like the
curved hull of a lucent ship freighted with
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 7
light for a new world. On the gleaming disc,
plain and well defined as if marked on a map.,
were the eccentric wavy outlines, and irregul ir
dots and points, and grouped spots of light,
and disseminated shadows peculiar to the
hemisphere of the satellite of night.
Looking in towards the land, were found
the gubMmest aspects of coast scenery. There
was 4 deep, though not very large bay, shaped
semicircularly something like a half moon,
with one horn considerably advanced, and
composed of pled crags and shelving rocks,
so curiously and stupendously laid together
through the all-powerful industry of nature
that it looked like an artificial mole and the
work of the hand of man. Pointed rocks
of the moat fantastic and extraordinary shapes,
stood in the sea; some were like spires of
churches, some like bridges, and others again
resembled the columns, and wreathed but-
tresses, and wild, air-hung, dizzy arches of a
mighty basaltic grotto. Clouds of spray dust,
Turn im p OF G U M .
«
cast into the moonlit cur like the powder of
diamonds; millions of flashing drops which
flamed and disappeared, or fell in tiny ringlets
of light into the bright blue sea, were con­
tinually starting, and yet with some certain
sort of regular recurrence, from the juts, and
knobs, and splinters of smooth and slippery
rock. You might hare thought them flights
of water sprites in the shape of spouting foun­
tains of sparks.
Gaunt rough cliffs, whose cleaving summits
climbedto thestan,aboundingwithdeviousways
and cavernous passages to the sands and the
s e a “ looped and windowed” terraces whose
natural slits, and pendant creneUet, and gaping
embrasures wanted, to realize their character­
istics of warlike resistance, but an activity
which might have been supplied from the
magazines of monstrous loose stones, and riven
r
trunks of scorched, and blistered, and split
pines, which dong together and lay heaped
or stood toppling one on other;—firs of mighty
THE SHIP OF GtASS. 9
growth, bent to oil angles ont of the perpen­
dicular, round whose iron and bossybases their
tough and tangling roots around, and twined
and knotted as if they had been ropes, or like
serpents in mail of glistening silver grey or
green! such objects as these met the eye in
every direction, and assisted in making up the
scene. It was the most curious view one ever
beheld. It was romantic to the very extremity
of romance, and a place to dream about—
hardly to see.
Bound the bay was disposed the town,
with its linesofdefence, and many minarets, and
gleaming towers, of the aoeient Tafna-Khalifas.
Hie antique citadel, and the Governor’s palace,
both rich in all the elaborate and magnificent
detail of Moresco architecture, studded with a
thousand turrets,and abounding in buttress, and
bartizan, and battlement, Mood on highground,
and overlooked the wilderness of buildings.
There was a strong tinge of eastern wildness,
and eastern pomp in the aspeet of this quaint
TBS mtW OF LA88.
city. Its basons, were filed with glittering
craft, light caiques and sturdier vessels; argo­
sies with portly sides and drooping sails,
seemingly bull of gold; and a fleet of skills
and boats.
The whole city seemed afloat; there was
such a twinkling of innumerable lights about
it, one might have thought restlessly changing
place; now uniting and growing into steady
lustre, and now breaking away and dispersing
like fireflies or the gold, and blue, and crimson
rains of a rocket.
Lights glanced from every place. The win­
dows of the houses, the steeples of the
churches, the fiat terraces on the tops ofdomes­
tic edifices, columns and fountains, nay the
very rocks, sad the island stones in the sea
itself, blazed with light It seemed a gorgeous
festival, which indeed it was. Then there were
two lighthouses in the bay of so original an
architecture, and with such curious zigzags
and uncouth and incoherent appurtenances
THE SHU* OF GLAM. 11
about them* that they looked fitter for tiro
watchboxes for Gnomes, or cawed cells for
Afrites, guarding the approaches to some silent
and mystic city in which were accumulated
the faery treasures of countless ages. These
two structures were aow illuminated with a
species of Greek fire, which alternately burnt
bright red and threw a blood colour over the
whole strange scene, and then would turn to
blue and invest everything with a ghastly
supernatural hue 5—as if the old moon was
extinguished and a new and unaccountable
one introduced.
Dots of light covered the entire scene, like
pins’ points. Innumerable torches shone like
a new heaven no longer placid and silent, with
an universe of stars. Bows and ranks oi
light glittered everywhere, as if they had been
flambeaux borne by an army In regular and
systematic array. The hulls of the vessels in
the harbour were lustrous as if they had been
on fire. Lamps were displayed everywhere.
iif(X
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
They were hung out at the stems, over the
bows, and were fixed over the sterns and
glittered in the rigging and at the yard arms
of all the navy of Tafna-Khalifp. Changing
fires burned on the highest peaks of the rocks,
and paths of flame were traced in zigzags up
the sides of the distant mountains, till they
terminated on the bristling summits in stray
M e fixes which gleamed like mighty steadily
burning planets.
All the population was poured out upon the
walls and lines of fortification, and covered
every place, and clustered on every elevation
from which a sight of the harbour, and of the
sea could be obtained.
Upifa a large platform of stone in the centre
of the town was Tophaik Calumet and all his
retinue, surrounded with the ensigns of his
dignity, andall the panul®and attendance inci­
dental to his authority as Governor. The lines
of his guards and their glittering partizsms,
and the multitudinous emblazoned banners
THE SHIT OF 6LAJH. 1 3
flaming by the light of hundreds of flambeaux
held in rows like paths of stars, gradually
diminished in perspective until they were lost
in the soft shades of the moonlight night.
But in the centre of the bay, the object of
breathless attention to nil the populace, was
the wonderful Ship of Glass. Eyes were fas­
tened with wonder upon her, and every rope
and every spar was examined with a curiosity
which seemed as if it was incapable of being
satisfied. At intervals bursts of military
music would swell on the air, and then sink
into silence or float away in magic echoes over
the surface of the water. At different points
from hill to shore, from sea to strand, on either
side of the harbour, would the Slash of
cymbal, and the hollow beat of the eastern
drum be heard, as if sound answered to sound.
Magnificent in her proportions, symmetrical
in her curves of light, a fairy ship of giant
size, lay the Ship of Glass. She rose and fell
THE SHIT OF QLASSi
softly on the sleepy heaves of the shining ae&
She looked a vision conjured up out of the
Water. So thin and transparent was she, so
diaphanous were her glassy timbers and broad­
side, that you could see through her and discern
her portholes on the other side, with the figures
of people passing to and fro between upon her
deck. Her outline was graceful in the ex­
treme, and her tall aspiring masts, and her
multitude of giddy yards crossing and stretch­
ing their long thin arms like silver spears, her
prismatic cordage like woven ice, and the
filmy cloud of the upper rigging, which twined
and interleaved in lines so small that you
could scarcely see them—all the puzzling and
seemingly inextricable tangle of her rig, was
clear and distinct, and sharply though mioutely
traced upon a back-ground of sky which
seemed light of itself.
The Ship of Glass seemed to shine by its
own light, as if it were a lucid body and scat­
tered its pale illumination upon the blue water
THE SHIP OP 15
like a globe of crystal the hollow of which
wasfilled with moonlight. She looked built of
watery hate and moonlight, in feet; formed of
ten thousand sharp cold rays, keen and piercing
as the points of the finest darts, and crossed
and reticulating, and starting up and tending
down, and converging and diverging. As if
whole sheavesot elfin arrows had been arrested
in their sparkling flight, and, struck by the
spell, had arranged themselves in fanciful
groups suggesting to the eye the figure of a
ship. As if the discursive rays of the Aurora
Borealishad congregated andconverged into the
semblance of a luminous man of war.
Nobody that saw her but with the utmost
difficulty could believe that she was not the
work of magic- that she was not perhaps a
living thing, awful in its terrific beauty. She
hardly looked solid$ but perhaps owing to the
mystic and delusive light in which
“ All the diapes of this grand scenery shifted
Like restless clouds before the steadfast sun,"
iifCK
'
18 THE SHIP O
P C
JL
A
8S
.
it was bat fancy that she appeared to fade
and brighten again, not in her whole length
but in parts, to sink in and collapse, and then
recover the full value and extent of her pro­
portions, or the firmness and distinct severity
of her outline.
As it was, there was not a few who en­
couraged the idea that they should shortly see
her evolve the supernatural light with which
she seemed gifted, return that shape into the
witchlike and spell-transmuted air out of which
it was probably wrought, and shrink into and
disappear in a shower of dimpling drops, to
fall into the azure sea.
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 17
CHAPTER II.
THE SHIP AT SEA.
“ Alone, alone, all, all, alone.
Alone on a wide wide sea !
And neTer a saint took pity on
My soul in agony.”
C o l e r i d g e .
Mu l t it u d in o u s were th e criticisms hazarded
on the Ship of Glass, and innumerable were
the doubts as to whether she would, or could
evensail or not- The envious, who constitute
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
a very strong class everywhere, and formed a
by no means inconsiderable section of the
population, would have been loud in their
censures, even perhaps not sparing of ridicule,
had they dared. B ut they were deterred,
and faultfinders were overawed by the coun­
tenance which the Governor of the country
ha 1 bestowed upon Klypp’s momentous and
daring project. The incredulous were also
silenced by seeing the ship there present
before their eyes, launched and afloat, with
her crew on board, her captaia on his quarter
deck, and preparations making for slipping her
cable and quitting her harbour.
Such proofs of the reality of the intention
of sending the ship to sea, set all at rest. All
was eager attention, and there was such ex­
citement succeeding the late bustle, and
usurping the place of that which had seemed
nothing but pleasure and festival, that the
music ceased of its own accord, the people did
’HE SHIP OF GLASS. 19
not move about or even talk, but all eyes were
directed with greater intensity than ever
upon the theatre of operations, which was the
harbour.
Presently all lurking doubts and jealous
distrust were terminated by, at a certain sig­
nal, the sight of the sails of the Ship of Glass,
being loosed. They were cast from the yards
and fell in graceful festoons. The mari­
ners who were aloft discharging this to them
novel duty upon such material, appeared to lay
out upon the slippery yards with ease, and the
texture of the fabric of the sails, though
glossy like cloth woven out of glass, seemed
natural enough, except that, when the sails
were sheeted home and the yards hoisted, they
beamed with all the colours of the rainbow.
Astonishmentand admiration filled the txtlpds
of the assembly, when they actually saw
an anchor of glass and a glass cable rise
out of the water and slowly ascend to a
TBE SHIP OP GLASS.
crystal cat-head. Each fresh manoeuvre was a
marvel. i t seemed every moment as if ropes
mast part, or chains snap, or sails be blown
away, or masts split like frostwork, or hall
crash: but to the wonder and wild delight of
the spectators all held.
■ Then slowly the water slid away and fell
asunder from before the glistening, cutting
prow, as if the ship was propelled by some
invisible force; the sails touched and steadily
filled, the graceful fabric slightly swaying over
upon the swelling waves, and the Ship of
Glass was in stately motion. At this sight
there rose such a shout that the town seemed
alive with echoes, and the hill tops trembled
again. In fact the ship itself momentarily
oscillated on its nay, as its delicate slender
fabric answered to the sound; but there seemed
to grow strength out of itself, produced and
deepening out of its very progress, which in­
stantly restored it to equilibrium. Evenly,
steadily, silently, solemn and majestic yet
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 21
beautiful in its grace, its correctness, its fault­
less architecture, did the ship pursue her way,
straight as an arrow out of a bow out of the
harbour’s mouth, past the heads of the mole
crowded with people, and lighthouses blazing
with beacon-lights, and boldly out into the
open sea.
Minute by minute the buildings on the sea
shore became smaller and smaller. The horns
of the harbour seemed to close together, the
city receded, and the tall cliffs, the spiry rooks
and romantic uplands crowned with stars,
“Bowed their haughty cTesta,"
sinking like a panorama of cloud into the wide
sea, which seemed waiting to receive them and
to take them in into its blue bosom.
The ship held her way ou gallantly and left
the land, which qnicker and quicker glided
into distance as the broad ocean began to roll
and extend its mighty waves. The lights
22 t h e sh ip o p glass.
crowded together and began to twinkle like
distant stars; and the sensation grew around
those who were now the lonely wanderers of
the great deep, that they were exiles with
qature and solitude, abandoned in that great
silence, separate in that trackless desert, that
unsubstantial world without mark or sign or
path.
Smaller and smaller, dimmer and dimmer
grew the line of the coast. The lights disap-
pared waning in the moonlight. The cliffs
giid softly down, as it were, into the sea, and
were met with a ganzy track of vapour which
spread along the dubious line of the horizon.
All was now sea nnd sky, with the stars above
and the waves below. Unmingled, uninter­
rupted silence was everywhere; sod the Ship
of Glass sped onward with her cloud of gos-
somer sails like a phantom. She seemed to
glide softly and silently over the water, like a
pile of driving mist which a mortal bark cot^h)
have skimmed through.
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 23
Night gape place to day. The ship sailed
on. In compliance with the directions of
Klypp Heufueros, the Ship of Glass shaped
her course along the line of the Spanish coast
until where it narrowed to the Straits of Gib­
raltar, or, as they were then known, Hercules’
Pillars.
The haughty summits of Calpe and Abyla,
lost in the clouds, and rising into a heaven of
celestial, cerulean blue, were not long before
they showed themselves. The Ship of Glass
held her steady wiiy through the Straits
with a fair wind and with the most delicious
weather. And then was she seen stemming,
a silver spot upon the sapphire sea, the broad
waves of the mighty Atlantic.
Cunique now, in accordance with the direc­
tions of the projector of the expedition, and
after a careful examination of a heap of charts
and papers committed to him to supply him
assistance in his arduous and doubtful voyage,
directed his vessel’s head to be laid to the
The suit or o u m .
southward and westward. It was In this direc­
tion, and in a certain latitude indicated to him,
that it was anticipated he might fall in with
the mysterious island, destined indeed to be a
Fortunate Island should Cunique discover it.
To the astonishment and delight of Cunique
and his crew, especially to the pleasure and
admiration of the latter, who sadly rtood in
need of some confirmation of their resolution,
and direct evidence that their mortal fear of
the security of the Ship of Glass rested more
in imagination than reality, the ship sailed
well, lay firmly and solidly on the water, and
answered her helm with exactness and pre­
cision. In a few days the terror which bad
rendered his mariners in the first instance al­
most incapablo of exertion, mid disposed to
look upon themselves as victims and the ship
purposely doomed, wore away. They became
reconciled to their situation, and traversed the
ship with greater confidence and with more
easy hearts, though they could not prevent
THE BHIP OF GLASS' 25
themselves from continually running to look
over the side, as if they every moment ex­
pected to see the waves burst in upon the
apparently frail sides of their crystal argosy.
All held np their hands in,mingled wonder
mid excitement; but they wen denied speech,
though exclamations of astonishment, even of
pleasure rose frequently to their lips and were
as instantaneously repressed, checked by the
fear of the dreadful things denounced them
should man ope his Ups aboard. They mule
up for this deprivation of language, by trans­
mitting their impressions by signs one to
another. The Moors, indeed, were adepts at
this mode of communicating their thoughts.
The ship presented the singular spectaole of
conversation carried on, and orders issued, and
manoeuvres effected, and changes oftrim readily
and expeditiously put in practice, without a
•ingle word being said, and the vessel all the
time as profoundly silent as if there were no.
one single human soul aboard her.
vol. a, c
m e s h ip of e M f li.
The wind w ith b a t slight interruptions held
fair, and the m ariners With pleasure, and y e t
with a considerable and natural mingling o f
terror, saw th at they were m aking great way*
A vague feeling of alarm began t6 seise th em ,
and gained ground In the ship. T he m aterial
of the vessel, so insubstantial, so astonishing,
so dangerous; th e character of their e rra n d ;
the m ystery in which the island was enveloped;
the circumstances under which their young
captain had beeh chosen; the distance they
now found themselves not only from their own
country, but from any shore; th e prospect of
interm inable w aters which m et the eye in every
direction; and, last and chiefly, the repntatiob
for magic which the builder oi the ship and
the projector of the scheme enjoyed, and which
constituted him a terro r in his own tow n, and
threw suspicion round all his acts; all these
souroes of distrust operated unfavourably in
the superstitious m inds o f th e seamen of the
Ship of Glass.
THE SHIP OF GLASS. t 7
N or were there wanting prognostics o f af­
fright. Two black birds that flew so high th at
it was impossible to make out of what species
they were* even supposing that the settlem ent
of such a question would have calmed the in­
creasing misgivings o f the solitary crew, came
winging their dingy ominous way from a re­
m ote distance, when the ship most have bees
such an incalculable way off from any land
that their appearance was sinister and unac­
countable in the extreme. They took their
line over the ship, beating their silent sooty
pinions as if they were direct messengers of
evil, and charged with some embassage of dire
portent from which they durst not swerve
neither to the right band nor to the left, but
m ust still m il right on.
C unique with the m ost undaunted courage
and perseverance still held on, despising all
omens, and bent to succeed or perish in his
attem pt to discover the island, wad win th at
c 3
28 TtfE SHI? OF GLASS.
dear being for whom he languished, and in
whom his very life was hound up.
B u t the favourable w eather changed. Clouds
rose threateningly out o f th e distant sea. T he
sea first grew lead-colour of a sad, depressing
uniform ity, and then black; frowningiy, terri­
fically black. The waves began to rise and
the wind to blow. T he Ship o f Glass was
tost and tumbled on the rolling billows, though
still her crystal timbers firmly held, and flung
the assailing surges indignantly aside, as she
cut her cleaving way through the solid mass
o f waters which would sometimes rise up be­
fore her as if to forbid her passage. The noise
of the sea on her glass sides as the waves came
rolling on and dashed up against her, and some­
times mounted above and splashed over her
dripping deck, was hollow, strange and awful
to a degree.
M onths seemed to have elapsed since the
adventurous mariners left their native shore,
and pale fear was exhibiting itself in their
c 3
iC3C3"i:?'!t:!:
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 29
(sees. T he deprivation o f speech—the dread­
ful silence which reigned on board in the
bowling o f the storm, seemed condemnation
and doom in itself. A n appalling comparison
suggested itself to their mind, that their
situation appeared th at of a crew o f hollow-
eyed and speechless ghosts, sailing to some
fearful world where punishm ent and dole were
to be th eir lot for an eternity. Many were
the vows which were inwardly breathed. The
most violent cursed their destiny, and were
scarcely deterred from rising upon their com­
mander, seizing the ship and patting about,
with a hope of saving their lives. The fear
of K lypp Heufueros, and o f a vengeance
esteemed so deadly, even of his name as the
redoubted magician he was considered; and
also th e firm, tem perate, and confident bearing
of C unique, as yet kept the m alcontents
qniet.
W ith so many terrors aboard, and so many
TEE SHIP OP GLAM.
fears for the future with the wonder resulting
from their situation, the time flew swiftly—
swiftly as the ship herself, which sped on her
unknown way with a velocity scarcely more
than borrowed from desperation.
THE SHIP OF GLAB8. 31
CHAPTER III.
TttF. SHIP SAILING INTO UNKNOWN LATITUDES,
ENCOUNTERS TSSIPB8TUOUI WEATHEB.
" And now the storm blastcuno, and he
Was tyrannous andstrong;
H e struck with hiso’ertaking wings,
And chased us south along.
W ith sloping masts mid dipping prow,
As who pursues with yell and blow
Still treads the shadow of his foe,
And forward bends his head,
The ship drove fast, loud roared the blast,
And southward aye we fled.”
Coleridge.
But now new dangers seemed to threaten
oar daring voyagers. Cot off—hopelessly
•T
H
E BH
fF O
F OI.A88.
separated from human aid, exiled from every
thing bearing tokens of pity, assistance, or
community of feeling, exposed to the relent­
less hostilities of the deaf sea, and the
formidable chances with which the elements
might be stored against them, every day, in
fact every hour might be said to bring with
it fresh alarm or deepening despondence.
To add to the danger of Clinique’s situation,
and aggravating Ms perplexities, symptom of
indifference to command, reluctance to die-
charge those duties mid perform the obliga­
tions even necessary to safety, much less
hope, mutiny in its own hideous and appal-
ing form were observable among the crew
They seemed like men urged on by fear to
extremity. Scowling eyes and menacing ges­
tures, though as yet there was no fatal act of
resistance, and the silence upon which the
safety of the ship depended was preserved,
met the restless and exhausted, almost despair­
ing eyes of the vigilant commander. He
THE SHIP OF GLASS. 3 3
hourly feared the explosion of the pent-up
math and vengeance of his rebellious ship’s
oompany.
Twilight had sunk in gloomy and portentous
shadows. The sea ran high. Wave after
wave came on—the long sweeping waves of
the mighty Atlantic, majestic in their circling
roll and ponderous body. Hill and valley
undulated interchangeably.' Masses—moun­
tains rather of water changed place, now
gleaming with a sad faint light, and now
ranhing into darkness.
Fainter—fainter grew the evening. Piles
of clouds towered up, apparently urged over
the straight line of the distant horizon from
beneath by some invisible agency. A stream
of driving vapour, broad as the sea itself, ex­
tended like a monstrous shroud along the tops
of the billows and concealed its dark back­
ground of clouds. It spread and looked as if
it opened out of itself, and gradually took in
new lengths and lengths of sea,1until it em-
3 4 THE SHIP OP CLASS.
braced the whole west. It then stole down
as if its fate—its dreary office was to oover
the doomed ship and to enshroud it in itBpale
deathlike vesture, never to emerge to light
and life again.
Shortly night came on: night without
moon: night starless. All that was visible
were the rolling waves, heaving and tossing
near and afar off. The Ship of Glass rocked
and tumbled upon the giant billows: swaying
over, she would lift her shining side out of the
brine, which dripped and ran in cataracts
from her ports and channels, and then down;
lower down would sink her broadside, as if
the gallant, graceful fabric was really to be
engulphed. Her crew were gathered in a
silent row on deck, like men every minute ex­
pecting their death-warrant, or like the com­
pany of ghastly spectres they had fancied
themselves, denied speech, forbidden to offqjr
comfort and reciprocate terror even one to an
other.
TBS SHIP OF GXiAMh 35
Moantime the floodgates of heaven were
opened, and a tempest of hail—the rattling,
bounding artillery of the angry »kies—poured
down upon the devoted ship and hid it like
• curtain. Presently the clouds seemedto open,
wd like lonely (hip wanseen, is all her dazzling
majesty, battling with the furious elements
amidst repeated flashes of blazing lightning,
which actnaly seemed to set the sea on fire.
Tossed on high, she vaulted up the steeps of
roaring water, and, poised for a moment on the
vertex, then plunged low into a valley where
the sound of the storm itself was lost.
The mariners abandoned all courage; flung
their arms abroad in wild despair; and looked,
with their frantic gestures, as if they were
jweesneA
Cunique, still on his quarter deck, with his
hair flying in the gale, and grasping with one
hand k pery miien mast, which in com­
mon with its fellow span had stood the storm
as if indeed they and the whole ship were
THE HOT OF QLAB8.
fenced, bound Hud protected by • spell, fixed
hi* eager, dauntless eyes still forward on the
darkness. There was no symptom of fear, of
waTering or abandonment of purpose in him.
The ship still bore on, with ns little sail set
aa was sufficient to keep the vessel’s head in
the direction enjoined. But the roaring waves
which followed furiously after, pursuing with
vengeful and relentless pertinacity their flying
victim, appeared to meant higher and higher,
until at last a climbing wave started up with
irresistible force and extinguished the three
•tern lanterns, which had hitherto burned,
emblems of hope, above the howling, hungry
sea.
The crew started to their feet. Then bunt
upon the air a loud, revengeful, despairing
cry.
The ship seemed to pause in her headlong
course as if she were possessed of sense, and
sound had struck her. She shook to her
centre. A sort of trembling beset her; aa if
THE SHIP O f GLASS. 37
she might be aware of the effect of that cry
and her approaching dissolution.
Cunique, at that dreadful Bound—at the
violation of that decree upon which the voice
of fate had pronounced the safety of the ship
depended, clasped his hands, threw himself
upon his knees and oompresaed bis lips, as if
in that act he could repair the destruction
precipitated by his comrades.
Agony and despair were turned to rage:
the thirst forblood—the thirst for A
m life whom
they thought had betrayed them into their
present lost condition, filled the breasts of the
frantic crew. They rushed upon Cunique,
seized him in their clenching hands —their
mad, raging clasp. Struggling in vain, they
bore him to the gangway. Two dozen knives
were instantly inured to be sheathed in his
bosom, and gleamed in the lightning.
At that moment, the leader of the muti­
neers dropped frombefore bis face the folds of
a huge sea cloak, and displayed to view the
features of Pietro.
THE SHIP OF GLASS.
“ Behold me 1 ’tis written thy sacrifice shall
be our safety,” he cried. *
*I followed thee
to share thy spoils; but an enchanter has
caught me in Ha toils. The elements shall be
appeased through thy death. Great Nemesis I
receive thy victim.”
“ Hold, Pietro, hold!” exclaimed Cunique.
“ Thou mines! thyself and me. I would have
made thee rich. Voluntarily didst thou follow
me. Bememberest thou thine oath? Oh,
what—what hast thou done I”
Hence, traitor 1 hence, fiend 1 Away
with him 1 Into the Bea with the sorcerer 1
Heaven will take pity on us if we relieve the
■hip of her infernal bnrden.”
The words wore scarcely out of Pietro’s
mouth, when the Ship of Glass was momen­
tarily arrested in her progress. Once, twice,
thrice she Btruok; and at each blow her glass
timbers splintered, crashed, and flew apart in
sparkling fragments. She now lay over in
helpless ruin, an irretrievable wreck, heaving
■
m
l....
THS SHIP OF Q&AS8. 39
op her globed side with its range of crystal
ports, and chains, and courses of overlapping
wales. In her destruction she was a glorious
object Every minute the flashes of lightning
displayed her like a dazzling diamond whose
mighty heart had been cut out and its sphered
sides bewn into rows of prismatic ribs. A
thousand coruscations surrounded her; a thou­
sand flashing fires hung like dew-drops upon
spars rigging and hulL She was all red, blue,
sod amber beams. Electrified and glowing
from taffrail to the jibboomend, and from truck
to keel.
Such was the flashing funeral of the Ship of
Glass. Hers were obsequies of which the
roaring wind was the wild knell, the pale
lights of heaven the myriad of attendant tor­
ches. A mighty catafalque, imprisoning the
doomed, bearing them down to death, to dark­
ness; consuming one by one its whole freight
of superhuman lights, until that floating
triumph of matchless art and a too ambitious,
too daring ingenuity, was reduced to sparkless
ashes. Klypp’s magic burnt itself out in the
coffin in which be had purposely confined it
and committed to the ocean. His presump­
tions fires were trodden out by the indignant
footsteps of the aroused elements which met
his impious venture and exterminated it
THE SHIP OP SLABS. 41
CHAPTER IV.
THE ISLAWD.
“ Hew in this island we arrived.”
Tempest.
“ Be not afraid :: the isle is full of noises,
Sounds, and sweet airs, that give delight, and hurt
not.
Sometimes a thousand twanging instruments
Will hum about mine ears; and sometimes voices,
That, if I then had wakedafter long sleep,
Would make me sleep again: andthen, in dreaming,
The clouds, methought, weald open, aud show riches
Beady to drop upon me j that, when I waked,
I cried to dream again.”
Tempest.
It was morning. The clouds had rolled away
and left a clear blue sky, brilliant blue like
i t f mm star of qlass.
the eyes of seraphs, clear aa translucent wells
which M
e far hidden, deep, solitary and pro*
found, motionless ami intense in their
maturing, inaccessible purity, surrounded
with the freshest, greenest treasures of a
bountiful nature, and enshrined and en~
bosomed in the very heart of the hoar woods,
whose grassy steep and elfin mossy hollows,
softening shadows, and now sweeping now
sinking arcades link, and extend, and entwine,
and raise their ramprts of leaves and russet
buttresses of ancient trunks to repel the stray­
ing foot.
It was heaven alone to look up at that sky,
and drink in its matchless glory. You grew
young again in regarding it. The frost of age
unlocked its sparkling chains, and their frag­
ments fell to year feet Its peace—its holi­
ness sunk deep into your soul and possessed
you utterly, and for the first time you seemed
to perceive what the sky of paradise might be.
But while you looked, clouds which must
fJBB H u t 0» OUIIH, 43
have been enchantment, so lovelily, wonder­
fully shaped and tinted did they appear, came
trooping up. Like snowy flocks at the sum­
mons of the shepherd sun, did this population
of the air follow on in the track of day.
But, wonder of wonders! there was land.
There it was, broad, bright, stretching into
distance. It was no magic delusion*—
no phan­
tasmagoria—no cheat of the sight, to which
the intensity of hope lent force, and the vividly
excited imagination colour. Firm, substantial,
so that there could be no doubt of its reality,
there was at last revealed to sight the mysteri­
ous, the baffling island, to find out which had
been the dream of generations. Disaster had
been fortune—shipwreck waa safety—destruc­
tion life; for all Cunique’s hopes were now
answered. By means of the Ship of Glass he
had forced into tangible form the shadowy
island.
Who shall describe Cunique’aemotions when
from the pieee of rock which he had succeeded
I.;,:jilt... (...:.{ > C
THE SHIP OP GLASS.
in gaining in the storm and darkness of the
night, when consciousness returned to him
and he awoke in the strong light, this scene
burst upon him! With what joy did he sur­
vey this new treasure; this new dominion;
this pledge and evidenoe of his success;
this proof of his happy fate I
In his delight he uttered a cry of joy, and
stooped down and kissed the ground which had
made Uni so happy. As yet he could hardly
believe that what he saw was real. ■He
seemed to feel that he should—that he must
awake and find it all a dream. He opened
his eyes, and then shut them and opened them
again, in some sort of vague, doubtful expec­
tation that he should find the island vanished,
and see instead the ocean given back to him,
with its great waves and its sullen, inhospita­
ble silence.
To reooUect himself, to gather his confused
thoughts, and to assure himself that he had
actually sailed to that spot in a Ship of Glass,
THE SHIP OF GLA8S. 45
that there had been storm and darkness; and
that Ms notion there had been a ship in
danger, a splitting on a rock, a shipwreck and
dispersion of the mariners, was mot entirely
false, he looked abroad. What did he see?
There, shining in the morning light like the
ruins of a castle of resplendent steel, just on
the edge of the rocks, or where water, and
rock and sand intermingled, so uniting
that dominion seemed to be shared among
them, was the Ship of Glass high and dry.
Her masts of glass and cross spars, and a con­
fused net of glass cordage, were shattered
and in ruin. Poles of glass stuck up like the
iplinters of a temple of ice shining in the cold
clear brilliancy of a Bussian sun.
But who shall, or could describe the
wonders of this enchanted Me I All that has
been read in fairy tales—all the curiosities of
nature, and the mass of surprising things with
which stories of enchantment are filled—the
most daring flights of fancy, would have been
‘ 46 THE SHIP OP G iA M ,
surpassed here. The inexhaustible mines in
which the sorceress Poetry and her army of
dazzling spirits are restlessly, eleeplessly, ever­
lastingly at work, would be vainly taxed to
supply the varieties in colour and form, the
beauty and grandeur with which was stored
" This precious gemset in the silver sea.”
Cunique was so surprised and occupied with
what he saw, that he could have remained look­
ing for ever.
He never once thought of his companions in
that scene of danger which he had just passed
through, and had forgotten, if not forgiven,
his own perils, in the wild delight—the joy, the
intoxication of having succeeded, and finding
land where land to all appearance was
the last thing to be encountered. But he was
at once brought back to his situation, when on
mounting a rather high rock to gain a more
satisfactory view of his new discovery, he per-
the ship o f glass. 47"
eared a group of b it__riners gathered around
Ikewreck of the Ship of Glass.
Perhaps bis first impulse would hare been
retreat, had be not been perceived. His men
net op a cheer at discovering him, and came
running towards the place on which he stood
with all the marka of unbounded delight,
wonder and affection; at least so heconstrued
their gestures. He ran over in his mind all
the reasons he might have in congratulating
himself upon their co-operation. He saw
clearly that without their assistance he should
have no means of proving to his countrymen
the truth of hie discovery of the island, or of
devising means of returning to Tafna-Khalifas.
With them all might be attainable: without
the assistance of fellow men in such a situa­
tion, he m w he should be helpless—helpless in
a realm of riches—a miserable prisoner in the
golden island.
They joined company. There were no
longer clouded looks, or doubt, or menace.
48 THE SHIP OP GLASS.
Instead of despair, all was hope. Hatred was
swallowed up in admiration: and crowding
around him, nay kneeling at his feet as to a
superior being, his late unruly and turbulent
subordinates looked upon bis face with the
same veneration with which Columbus was
regarded when he first stood upon the shore
of that Indian Isle, and was saluted Discoverer
of a New World.
A new world indeed was this wonderful
island—this happy region, exhaustless in its
glories, to the eager explorers. The spot in
which they found themselves at this moment
was singularly beautiful. It looked a scene in
a realm of faery. A small bay of curved
form enclosed a space of sea of the most daz­
zling blue, rippling in the light, and so translu­
cent that looking into it you could perceive
the innumerable tree-ferns, and all the count­
less, curious diversities of marine vegetation,
now still, now slightly wavering, as the waves
shifted, with a distinctness which the most
TOR SB ff 07 GLASS. 4§
delicate of microscopic aids to vision could alone
■apply. In this clear water of sapphire Hue,
which as It struck and broke upon the scat­
tered miniature points, knobs and juts of rock,
threw itself far and wide in showers of dia­
monds, could be discovered choice shells, lumps
of amber which glistened like gold, pearls of
enormous size, and precious tbinge without
same and without end.
The golden sands, reflecting the ardent
beams of the broad bright day, gleamed with
the richest treasures of ocean. There were
shells of monstrous dimensions, with repeated
volves whose pink, and green, and mnltitudi-
nously coloured linings, were of such an illu­
mination that hundreds of small rainbows
seemed populating the borders of this fairy
haven. Trees of coral, bright red, and white,
nay, blue and purple; stems and spiculas of
basalt, and, farther up, and clinging amongst the
soft shadows amid which would glow and play
false lights, or reflected shades of light, (if such
VOL. IL s
50 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
* figure be allowable); strange shooting forma
of splintered rocks, and groups of monolithic
porphyry or jasper, standing like columns of
unequal height, and hung, and twined and
garlanded, as was indeed every object and each
picturesque fragment; innumerable forms of
wild grace and natural loveliness met the eye
in every direction. Colonnades of the most
abundantly fantastical, grotto-like irregularity \
individual pillars one would have imagined the
work of art, with gigantic apertures draped
with a profusion of drooping flowers of the
most gorgeous colours, and remarkable objects
placed upon and surrounding this handywork
of nature, of such a startling resemblance to
the small independent details and classic appur­
tenances of architecture, that a beholder would
pause in a sort of alarm, with a half-formed,
suggestive expectation that the contrivers of
these fairy structures, or their successors
the inhabitants of this island of mysteries
might present themselves. Peristyles where
o
TBS SHIP OF GLASS, 51
every tiny adjunct of urt found its imitation;
arch on arch circled round the bay, and rows
of atones -would descend in eccentric zig-zags,
until the blue waves received them and they
stood dimpling the surface of the dazzling
sea.
Above the line of rocks, which seemed to
rise up guarding like the long walls, and but­
tressed ramparts, and towers of observation of
an ancient city, or like the solid perpendicular
cliffs confining a wild uninhabited country,
was a tract of dark forest, grim and gloomy as
the domain of the Hesperides, awful and mys­
terious and suggestive of the wild things which
might be contained within its jealous, dragon
embrace. Here and there out of its recesses
shot up trees of evidently immense height
though the distance was so great. A sombre,
fearful division of country indeed this looked,
and contradictory and opposed to the blue
beaming of the sky which spread above it, the
strong sun which filled the air and earth
d 3
TBS SHIP OF GLASS*
with brilliance, and the congregated heaps of
the fantasticclouds, with their edges of scrolled
light and their gleaming (dry spires. In the
centre of the island, and towering up peak
after peak like the grouped minarets of a 'Ma-
hotnmedan fane with its curved cupolas and
Saracenic domes, its terraces and its traceries,
were mountains which shone now of a deep
blue colour, and printed their outlines, except
where interrupted by the passing clouds which
sailed as if swept across in laborious yet mag­
nificent procession, distinct with everyjag, and
shelve, and precipitous dip, upon the back­
ground of burning sky. Loosed and scattered,
indeed, over the heavens ; sprinkled, and cast
adrift, and flinging down correspondingly in­
tense colour over the landscapes which as you
advanced successively opened to the eye, were
showers of fiery clouds.
Cunique and his companions, after penetra*
ting for two hours into the wild solitudes,
found themselves descending. They lost sight
THE 8HIF 07 GLASS. 53
«f the sea. They were now surrounded with
monstrous rocks of the wildest shapes which
it ever entered into the mind of madman even
to conceive. Nature, wrung, and twisted, and
agonized in her struggles towards easeand res­
pite, and restoration to the regular and consis­
tent and coherent, seemed like the dolphin in
its last quiverings to extract involuntarily from
her torture fresher, keener beauties, and a
more startling glory4 at every new contortion,
at each recurring paroxysm to throw out,
like beams, some unexpectedphase of grandeur
or impossible sublimity, which in its terror
should strike dumb.
On their coming past the giant rocks, which
were interspersed with trees ofuncumbered cen­
turies of age, Cunique and hie company en­
countered matchless proofs of the riches of the
island. Sometimes lumps of solid silver lurked
in the crevices, even lay in slabs and paved a
rough but precious road into the darkness of
caverns which looked as if they would wind
54 TBB 8BH* Of GLASS.
away into the centre of die earth. Great
cedar trees, tough trunks, and lighter stems of
the riobest woods, were everywhere. And in
one place whete there wm a sort of track
winding round the edge oi nn enonnons hol­
low or rather circular valley, into which from
the perpendicular character of the walls of rook
which sank down, there appeared no means of
descent, there were scattered diamonds of snob
a she, and of so inestimable a value, that a
single one would have been a revenue for dune
generations.
Cnniqne’s followers found it impossible to
suppress their joy at these discoveries, and
were very eager to pause aid store themselves
with some of the treasons which they saw so
prodigally scattered within their reach. Cuni-
ue suoeoeded, though with difficulty, in per­
suading them for the present to refrain. All
journeyed on, though with some fear that they
might eventually find the island not quite so
abandoned and uninhabited As they at first
supposed.
I'O'S
THE SHIP OP GLASS* 55
Proceeding farther, they found the oouotiy
again change in its aspect. The cliffs, whose
terrificsummitshaddarkenedover the serpentin­
ing passage, voiceless except with strange hol­
low echoes and mysterious whispers which
struck fear into the hearts of the lonely wan­
derers, now drew apart and stretched away.
The sound of rniming water met the ear; and
soon a magnificent succession of cascades, shi­
ning like molten silver in the steady sun, ac­
companied the devious path which Conique’a
people traced for themselves amongst the pros­
trate pines and tossed fragments of rock. At
a considerable depth below, as yet blue in its
distance, was a lovely valley, through which a
wide river, speckled with green islets smiling in
lavish fertility, took its placid way, until it
circled in perspective and disappeared
amidst the wide rich woodlands on the
horizon.
After a long journey, the reverse of wea­
risome from the innumerable new objects of
5 6 THE SHIP OF OT'AM.
excitement and interest which courted their1
gaze at every step, our adventurers approached
the brink of the river. The sun was sloping,
a globe of resplendent gold, in such a sky as
Claude or Poussin never caught glimpse or re­
flection of in their most luxuriant, most highly
coloured reveries. The scene was paradise; and
the intense heat, and scorching abun­
dance of the westerly sunbeams, which danced
on the water in countless spires of yellow flame,
tempted Cunique and his company to rest. S
o>
they sat down on the softgrass, and commenced
an examination of the scenery which environed
them.
Not a single human being, or the slightest
trace of inhabitants, or a hint even that the
■land was ever visited by aught bearing
the form of man! Cunique and his ship’s
company felt entirely alone. Animals had
been seen: deer and goats, and smaller crea­
tures ; but they all appeared excessively shy,
and had started away alarmed at the sight of
THE SHIP OP GLASS. 5 *
loan, almost before their character could be
m
adeout.
A peculiar quality of this island, and one
that wasm
ysterious and unaccountable to an
anxious extent som
etim
es, w
as that everand
anon, and though interrupted bythe excited
m
oodsof m
indwith whichso many terrestrial
surprises w
ere surveyed, and w
hich it m
ight
have been concluded should dull their force,
strange feelings stole over the m
inds of the
adventurouscompany.
Asortof consciousness possessed themthat
there were other eyes there than their ow
n.
Thattherew
asaninvisiblepresenceregarding
—watching them
, fromwhich, however they
changed their scene, they did not escape.
That they w
ere not alone ; but w
ere
followed with surprise, perhaps displeasure,
thoughnothingw
as tobeseen, andthisrecog­
nition of an influence—
this perception of
miry, unsubstantial attendancedwelt but inthe
fancy.
D 5
THE SHIP OP OIiASS.
' Theislandseem
edpeopledwithstrangeairs.
M
usical m
urm
urs, sofaint and indistinctthat
youcouldscarcelythinkthemanythinghutthe
lowest w
hisperof a soft sum
m
er wind, stole
fromtheneighbouringw
oodsand followedon,
breathingsuchquiet yet keen andsubtlehar­
mony thatthe veryheartfainted. Then ahun­
dred golden harps w
ould seemto vibrate in
various directions, until the sound subsided
intoa silent breathing of m
orenaturalcharac­
ter, and you w
ould recognise the undulating
sweepofthe w
indorthehumandlowplashof
restlessw
aters.
THH SHIP OP GLASS. 59
CHAPTEK V.
HOW CUNIQUB RETURNS HOME, HIS OBJECTS
ACCOMPLISHED ; AND HOW HE 18 UNITED
WITH THE FAIR PHRODITI3.
“Oh! dream of joy I is this, indeed,
The light-housetopI see 1
Is this the hill1 is this the kirk I
Is this my own counted”
Coleridge.
W hatever m
agic there m
ight have been in
the island, and however delicious a placeof
residence it seem
ed, Cunique’s com
panions
60 TBS SHIP OP GLASS.
were very anxious to quit it, and to reach their
native country with the welcome tidings that
the voyage of the Ship of Glass had been
crowned with success, and the wonderful island
been discovered.
With their superstitious minds alarmed by
the strange sounds they had heard, and the
glimpses of strange things they had caught in
the interior of the island, the crew of the
Ship of Glass remained wholly on the side of
it on which were they cast ashore. They
had not the heart again to penetrate into its
mysterious recesses, but testified a very rest­
less anxiety to quit the alluring but pos­
sibly treacherous shore. At least so they
feared it.
In a short time they had gathered such a
store of riches as perhaps ship never bore hack
to the country from which she had started
forth.
How to contrive tbeir escape from the island.
.
and compass a safe return with their spoils, was
THE SHIP OF GLASS. ■ 61
a subject which agitated their councils night
and day.
During all this time the food of our adven-,
turers was literally
“ The fruitstheir drink, the crystal well.”
Bipened by the southern sun, the fruits were
delicious beyond measure, and were scattered
in glowing abundance.
Cuuique’s ready wit and ability, and more­
over his maritime knowledge, in his voyage and
now turned to the best account, were brought
to bear upon the point at the present juncture.
By his advice a bark, sufficiently large and
strong to carry the adventurers, was to be
built. There was indeed the wreck of the
Ship of Glass, and from the fragments, had.
they been so disposed, her late crew might have
managed to construct a vessel ofa like character
to carry them away, to that which had brought;
62 THE SHIP OF GLASS.
them to the island. But there was wanting
the matchless —almost pronounced — magic
skill which had put together that frail-looking,
but, as It had proved, durable bark. Even
had such a achievement been possible as the
reconstruction of the Ship of Glass, it may
be doubted whether one who came in her
would have been inclined to trust her strength,
and peril his safety in her again.
Wood there was in plenty, and of the rich­
est quality, too, to send to sea such a fleet as
had never'been seen afloat before, had there
been builders. But as numbers were so tew,
and strength so unequal, a clumsy sort of vessel
was all that could be hoped.
Under Cunique’s direction, by dint of hard
labour a small bark was built on the sea-shore
in a sort of little natural harbour, where the
water was deep enough to float her when she
should be finished. Near to the waterside grew
grove of sandal wood; and of this costly ma­
terial was Cunique’s new ship built.
,o c
TH» SHIT OF QLASS. 6 3
Sadi a cargo perbapa was never seen. She
was laden with bus of gold, a quantity of the
richest diamonds procurable out of the bounds
of that haunted region in the centre of the
island, and such specimens of the productions
of the island, and a collection so great of euri-
oaitiesof asortand kind never before seen in the
World, that the extravagant expeotaions of the
wonder they should excite on their return,
might have been justified in our fortunate ad*
venturers.
Bright and beautiful—auspicious in every
way, was die day on which Cunique set sail
for his own country. Such a pleasant steady
breeze set iu after the ship had attained some
leagues from the shore, that by afternoon the
island was a low blue cloud iu the west.
Days past;—months came and went, and
Cunique’s new ship sailed gallantly forward
with a swift breeze and a smooth sea. At
length, after repeated trials, he gained the
latitude of the Straits. He sailed through
6 4 THE SHIP Or GLASS.
them and came in sight of the Coetad’oro;
and lastly of Tafna-Khalifas.
We shall make no pause to tell of the won­
der, the joy with which Cunique was tele­
graphed on his return, and the parade with
which he entered the harbour, and was carried
before the Governor, Tophaik Calumet. Illu­
minations for three days, and a universal
festival greeted his.return.
The curiosities hedisplayed,the pricelessgems
he produced; more than all, the astonishing
accounts which his companions circulated of
the riches, the beauties, and the mysteries of
the island, bought
“ Golden opinionsfromall sorts of people."
Cunique and Phroditis were folded in each
other’s arms. United to part never-never
more—What happiness was theirs—what de­
light was Cunique’s ! Let us hasten to our
conclusion, or we shall be hurried into a grave
fault which we would much rather not fall
into:—we shall envy him.
tv f e S ttl* 0 9 OLAS*. 65
Hewed for ever be that fair island—myste­
rious though it remained—through the instru-
mentality of which, such good was effected
—
each a joy compassed as the union of two
such hearts!
If there be two such devoted lovers as
Cnniqne and Phroditis:—we are uncertain,
because we scarcely think that people in these
bad days love as they did in those bright
times when the world was young;—hardly in­
deed as they did a century ago, for Love has
grown commercial, and has had the feathers
of his wings cut into pens and his quiver of
darts run away with and an account-book given
him in s te a d b u t if there remain sotruea pair
of lovers, may they have, if not a fortunate
island, at least a fortunate something or some­
body to bring them together!
And to this good wish, we say Amen Swith
all our heart.
THE EOT).
A T C H E E L E Y .
" • • To beguile tbe time,
Look like the time ; beer welcome in your eye,
Your bend, your tongue: Look like the innocent
flower,
Ju t 6e the serpent under it
Shakespeare.
“ So, in the world: ’tie furnish'd well with men,
And men are flesh andblood, and apprehensive;
Yet, in the number, I doknowbut one
That unassailableholds on his rank,
Unshak'd of motion ; and, that I amhe.”
Shakespeare.
“ He invariably turned the whole arcana of life to
the account of the absurd, and made men, not the
victims of distaste as I did, but the shallow puppets
of a farce.”
Mohert Bell.
ATCHERLEY
CHAPTER L
“ All furnish’d, aUin arms,
All plumed like estridges that wing thewind ;
Bated like eagles having lately bathed;
GUttering in golden coats like images.
As full of spirit as the month of May,
And gorgeousasthe sun at midsummer;
I saw young Harry,—with his beaver on,
His cuisses on his thighs, gallantly arm'd,
Rise from the ground like feather’dMercury,
And vaulted with such ease into his seat,
As if an angel dropped down from the clouds,
To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus,
And witch the world with noblehorsemanship.”
H enry IV . Act IV . Scene I,
—— — ------ —
“By my hopes,-----
This present enterprise set off his head,-----
I do not think, a braver gentleman,
More active-valiant, or more valiant-young,
More daring, or more bold, is nowalive,
To grace this latter age with noble deeds.”
H enry IV . Act V. Scene I.
“ I am not what I am.”
Othello. Act I Sem e I.
Two travellers were journeying along a cross
load, sufficiently rough to cause some incon-
ATCBEBI.EY'
venience to their steeds, in the heart of the
county of Derby.
Apparently the horses had traversed a
considerable space since their last place of
abiding; for their advance was somewhat
laborious, and their air the reverse of sprightly.
Any one could however have discerned that
their blood was of some condition, and
their character, when fresh, of an elevated
order.
The progenitors of the nearer one had
evidently snuffed the air of the plains of Iberia;
for though not much of the noble spirit of his
ancestors could now be detected within him,
there was a subdued though straggling vivacity
in his movements, which proclaimed to the
observer, that, when unwearied, in the field
or course he could exhibit a not insignificant
portion of the mettle of bis honourable race.
The other animal displayed the.more cautious,
not to say sluggish, characteristics of his
German or rather Flemish genealogy. His
ATCBEBLEY. 71
colour was a coal black, even without the
usual exception of snips and stars of white
on feet and nose; but its sleekness was mate­
rially impaired by the accumulated dust of
hastily traversed leagues. His shape, how­
ever, ifnot as eminently symmetrical as that of
bis less exhausted companion, possessed con­
siderable claims to the least superficial admira­
tion; and his steadiness and obedience folly
counterbalanced the disadvantages which, in
the opinion of some, he might have inherited
from his not equally distinguished lineage.
The riders of these sometime gallant steeds
exhibited a sufficiently different appearance to
partly identify them with the characteristics
of the creatures on which they were mounted.
The disposition of a man may often be seen by
the nature of the animal with which he isaccus­
tomed to be associated. There is a tacit neces­
sity for agreement in their movements which
involuntarily suggests the choice ; that species
of provident speculation which influences a
ATCHEBLEY.
n
man in the selection of a friend ; the convic­
tion that there must be a likeness in tastes,
habits and inclinations, sufficiently strong to
prevent unpleasant collision afterwards.
Agreeably to this apparently immaterial bias
in human nature, the two animals might have
furnished a quick observer with something
like an insight into the characters of their cor­
respondent cavaliers. It is said that the coun­
tenance is the index of the mind; but the
saying, though true in a broad sense, cannot
always be made to individually apply. The
face, being the chief seat of expression, is
always the poiut most solicitously guarded:
as the avenue which might let out the betrayal
of his weakness is ever most carefully witched
by a prudent governor. Even the habitual
and guardless expression of the face is an ill
guide that will as often lead one to false con­
clusions as to correct As danger will alight
from an unsuspected quarter, so will unantici­
pated traits evolve from a seemingly well
ATCHIRLET. 13
regelated and quiescent disposition. In dreas
-the inclinations of a man will frequently dis­
play themselves: while we keep an unremit­
ting eye over the chief inlets of penetration,
we often overlook those which are less obvious
hut not the less serviceable. From the attire
of our two worthies, a guess, with the ohaaoe
of being a remote one, might have been
hazarded at their governing peculiarities.
As the nearer, and, to judge from outward
mreumstances, •afightly more attractive one,
we will begin with the younger person.
The frame of this individual was tall though
slight; bat bis height had the disadvantage
of being wanned on horseback. Possessed of
the wellrounded outlines that bestow a general
grace, gifted with that consummate ease which'
mily « practised horseman can acquire, .his
form bore aa air of patrician activity, of
-soldierlike independence, that was a ready
passport to the respect of the beholder. There
was a carelessness in his movements that bo«
VOL. <L E
ATCHEBLEY.
tokened a bias towards wilfulness in his dis­
position ; and the mode in which he 'now
encouraged and then checked his steed, shewed
that he was either inattentive to the obvious
langour of the animal, or that his mind was
occupied by other and higher objects; mote
probably the latter.
His countenanoe, though usually open, was
thoughtful; and a slight frown, one of deep
consideration, the deeper perhaps because of
the rarity of the feeling which it expressed,
shaded his brow as his eye wandered around
him. His face was long am! of a good out­
line: the lower part of it tapering away to a
well-formed chin: his complexion was good,
though slightly tinctured with brown, probably
through exposure to the suns of a warm
olimate, and his features wen remarkably
handsome- Quick blaok eyes, arched by two
dark, well-bowed eyebrows, shone beneath a
high, wide and pale forehead, by the side of
ATCHBHLEV. 75
which drooped, in the style of the day, long
curia gloasy and exuberant.
His dress, though not calculated particularly
to catch the eye, was handsome and scrupu­
lously cut, and its material apparently of a
superior quality. His shape was fitted by a
travelling coat of buff, the seams guarded
with lace, and the shoulder-points teeming
with a profusion of scarlet ribbons and gold
tags. Bound his neck and half way over his
shoulders was a collar of rich lace, covered
with white embroidery; riding boots of roughly
dressed leather were drawn half way up his
legs j their edges, instead of being trimmed, as
usual, with the same kind of lace as that of
which his collar was composed, were simply
bound with a cord of gold: spurs of a light
metal protruded from his heels, and his knees
and vestments glittered with quivering tags
gilt with gold.
Over a face, the lower part of which was
ornamented with a pair of moustachios, circled
s 3
76 ATCHRRXJ2Y.
a rou: :: low-crowned hat of beaver, banded
with a circlet of gold laoe, fasfcended in front
with » brooch of goM, the light workmanship
of which was studded by a small amethyst
The broad flat brim of his head covering
w
ttfe decorated by a lateral half circle of
feathers, that alternately waved -and fluttered
in the evening breeze.
To complete the portrait, by way of arms
w on borne a xapier, hilted and scabbard-jointed
with gold, lightly attached to a broad shoulder-
belt of scariet that, passing diagonally across
his body, was drawn beneath a sash of silk ef
the same showy colour closing (tincturing Us
waist, and a pair of silver-mounted pistols
deposited in holsters of damasked leather.
His companion made a much more simple
appearance. His height was not so great as
that of Us neighbour, and though the latter
was rivalled with respect to sEgbtnem ef
form, the limbs of his friend were so ac­
curately proportioned^ Ms body was so
ATCHSRWf. 7 ?
judiciously moulded, and each proportion so
admirably prevented from fescomisg a too pro-
nuneat feature, that an ak of equal ac­
tivity and much, superior strength was im­
parted A breadth of shoulder that promised a
capabilityof much enduranoe*a rising neck and
wellrhalanoed head that argued a constancy of
purpose and dearness and soundness of
an eve* self-possessing judgment, a gradual
inclination of waist and atr&itnesa and round­
ness of arm, implying much stability, and the
firmness and graceful outline of Us lower
limbs, added a peculiar effect to his height,
that seemed to bestow a prepossessing grandeur
to tbe impression of his whole appearance,
and caused the eyes of the. beholder to wander^
from the person of its favoured possessor to
that of his scarcely less gifted companion, in
uncertainty whether to admire most the youth­
ful elasticity of shape and lightness of move­
ment of the one, or the tranquil and fescinat-
iag dignity of the other.
ATCHBBLmr.
His face was not even as slightly em-
browned as that of his youthful neighbour:
it was pale and contemplative. His features
were eqully well formed. Manly and well
outlined lips, a classical nose, and delicately
rounded chin; high, eminently intellectual
and expansive forehead, hollowed temples, and
dark clustering locks, created a resemblance in
his countenance, when composed, to the
chiselled facial sublimities of the Phidian
Jupiter.
A glance would have told the observer that
nothing could have been gathered by the
expression of that to which we ordinarily look
for a solution of our doubts respecting it, of
his real character. In the cold, composed, and
perfectly self-possessed, full-faced look that
courted the eye of the observer, seemingly
incapable of being compelled to exhibit a
trait of undesired interest and particular in­
telligence, you read that all the advantage
of observation must rest on the side of the
ATCHERLEY. 7 9
individual whom you were hopelessly seeking
to betray into an expression of real undis­
guised nature. Nothing could be so mortifying
to one who fancies he possesses the power of
observation. This was so eminently the cha­
racter of the second traveller's glance, that
disappointment could only be propitiated by
wondering how a self-command so advantage­
ously despotic to the possessor and so tho­
roughly iuacquirable so long as the human
face was made for expression, could possibly,
to judge from appearances, he so easily ob­
tained and felicitously exercised.
Tlis eyes, indeed—black, large and clear
orbs, shaded by clear dark brows—seemed
formed for penetrating not only the thin and
ordinary concealments of less important cha­
racter, but the deeper, more reserved, and
most solicitously guarded secrets, that weighty
and tyrannical reasons might decree for ever­
lasting suppression. The most confident
schemer that ever buried his machinations in
80 ATCHBBLEV.
a mystery inaccessible to those who rejoiced in
a reputation for an extraordinary penetration
among the usually ill-judging crowd, might
well have feared to meet his unpreoocupied,
intense and unwavering eye. » Ha seemed,
in short, to possess as perfect a command over
his slightest look or motion, as he did over
the animal he so deliberately, carelessly, and
yet so surpassingly governed.
Attire in a man of this peculiar nature
would seem to be a very secondary guide as
to character. From a refinement in policy,
however, he studied to meet that which would
appear, in the general level of human nature,
a profound deduction; and foreseeing that
few, witnessing his apparent character, would
look for a betrayal of his real one in so insig­
nificant a matter as his dress, his vestments
were unstudiedly dissimilar to his merely su­
perficial nature, and perhaps approached more
nearly than would hare been suspected to his
real one.
rCtlKRLEY. 81
This one-sided policy savoured much of that
of a celebrated general, who invariably pub­
lished, when about to move, his true line of
march, justly arguing that as the enemy were
likely to disbelieve him he should take them
by surprise, and flattering in this respect the
inclination of human nature, which rarely does
one the justice to suppose a real intention, so
contrary to all the favourite principles of
worldly mindedneas, is so candidly and ap­
parently so impolitieally exposed. Those,
therefore, who would have come to conclusions
upon seemingly elaborate and deep reasons,
would, in reality, have stood the fairest chance
of being themselves overreached.
His dress, though simple, betokened, even
in these outward and inferior'circumstances,
one entitled to respect. He wore a similar
travelling coat to that of his companion; but,
though it was assiduously fitted, its hue was
of a very different nature. Composed of
olive-green cloth, simply if at all relieved by
£ 5
82 ATCHURLEY.
silk lace of the same colour, and exhibiting
a very scanty distribution of ornament, it
seemed even to better agree with the thought­
ful character of his face than a garment of
more ostentatious and valuable appearance.
His limbs were cased in black hose, that
were partly concealed by leathern boots of a
similar style though more formal cut than
those of his fellow traveller. Stout spurs,
varnished with green, completed his lower ap­
pointments, while a horseman's spreading
cloak, half thrown off and hanging slightly
o v er one shoulder, displayed somewhat less o f
his person than might have been desired. His
slight sword hung by a baldric of polished
leather, and he carried weapons of no other
d escrip tio n . The sleeves of his sombre coat
were tight enough to display a muscular and
well rounded arm, while his hands, almost
feminine in smallness and delicacy, werecovered
with gauntlets wholly destitute of stud or o r­
nament.
ATCHERLEY. 83
Over hie face, which was greatly shaded by
thick and dark hair, he wore a round hat of a
very similar style to that of his friend; only,
instead of a band of gold, it was encircled by
a broad one of silk, vying in obscurity with
the hue of the glossy beaver. His plumes
were also disposed in much the same manner
they were in the other case, but they were
much fewer in number and sable in tint
The prevailing character of his vestments it
will be seen was one of stability nearly allied
to dignity, willing at the same time that it
avoided observation to inspire respect and pro­
claim the respectability of the wearer, while
the operation by which that conviction of re­
spectability wasconveyed remained unobtruded
and unsuspected.
It inspired that feeling, in fact, which actu­
ates the beholder when he knows he is in the
presence of a superior person, but isat a loss to
state by what means or through what unosten­
tatious channel the knowledge is conveyed. A
ATCHEBLRT.
hasty observer would have asaeigned it to the
oouatenanoe, in which was concentrated so
much self-collected dignity, aided by a hand­
somely curled upper lip and slight moustache;
but a closer examination would have been suf-
fioent to disturb the attributing it to any par­
ticular source, when the total want of all au­
thority, the undisguised repose, and the absence
of any peculiar expression floated over the
memory.
The tout ensemble, however, evidently pro­
duced the effect, the presence of which was
acknowledged while its mode of production
was problematical, that was inattributable to
the agency of any independent feature.
The scene through which our two wayfarers
were journeying was romantic, and must when
the sun was high enough to display distant
objects have been peculiarly calculated to at­
tract the attention.
The narrow road, the repair*of which was
forgotten as long as the slight use that was
ATCHEBLEY. 85
made of it justified the neglect, was sufficiently
rough in surface and irregular in line to accord
with the secluded character of the country on
either side. Ridges of broken ground strag­
gling into all the varieties of uncultured ec­
centricity, patched in places with an under
growth of heath and gorse, the dark streaks
of which, gemmed with innumerable yellow
stars, contrasted richly with the gravelly strati­
fied features of the soil, breaking abruptly
into miniaturecliffsand fringy gulphs, rose tier
after tier, now advancing near and then climb­
ing more ambitiously into comparative dis­
tance, on either side of the devious and un­
certain road.
At some distance the country seemed to
break away towards some cultivated tract;
for though the bright green masses of trees
which threw their solitary stems into the
tangled herbage that crept about their curling
roots descended into the adjacent ground free
to every vagrant foot that chose to wind
ATCHEBUEY.
among them, studded lines of less irregular
green ranked themselves behind each other and
based a few glimpses of rich blue country, that
glanced between the rising and fantastic group*
of flowery rock.
The scene was graced by a perfect stillness
except when broken by the slow and drowsy
tread of the travellers' horses. The sun was
dipping down, attended merely by a few crim­
son crescents of cloud, towards the line of
western orag, gilding the opposite points and
jottings with a deep and equal intensity; and
the bright blue of the scarcely clouded sky
was already deepening, as if anticipating the
obscurity of twilight.
ATCHERLEY. 87
CHAPTER II.
“ Poloniut.—But, air, such wanton, wild, and usual
slips,
As arecompanions noted and most known
To youth andliberty.
Reynaldo.—As gaming, mylord."
Hamlet. Act ii. Scene 1.
“ Nay then I hare an eye of you.”
Ibid. Act ii. Scene 2.
Pob some time past, as if by mutual agree­
ment, the converse of our two worthies had
88 ATCSEfUUSY,
been limited to subjects desultorily remem­
bered of a more than ordinary importance, or
passing observations on that encountered which
called for particular remark.
Now however that the termination of their
journey seemed throwing off its remoteness,
their attention appeared more than usually
active; and the readiness for brisker and more
continued conversation was developed in each
by their abandoning that air of abstraction
which had hung over them. The horseman in
the olive green vestments perceiving that what
he said was not likely to be expended upon a
preoccupied hearer, was the first to break the
silenoe.
“ We shall find the seclusion of Torring-
ton Place,” said he, “ dull after the gaieties of
Paris.”
“ I shall find it the less tolerable,” answered
his companion, “ that 1 am returning to it
with somewhat different feelings to those with
which I set out In the light in which I look
ATCHIEI.BY. 89
upon it at the present moment, it seems more
than usually uncongenial. It is the effect of
impatience to make us dissatisfied with that
which was before even pleasing. There was a
time when I was fond of all about it—aye, of
its very name; but affairs change, and w# are
such very chamelions that we partake the
change.”
“ It is natural: we are the creatures of cir-
cmnstance, and it is not strange that a varia­
tion in that on which we subsist should revolu­
tionise its dependants.”
“ I have been a fool,” continued theyounger
traveller, “ and should have known better
than to be carried away so passively by the
stream. Either a forgetfulness of the deter­
mination I should have called forth, or an ac­
quiescent indolence unwilling to see towards
what shoal I was driving, set my judgment
to sleep. I cannot even restore myself to self-
complacency by a resolution to raise what has
passed to the dignity of a monitor. Could
ATCHEHLEY.
Buch an alchyray be effected, it would be ex­
tracting good out of eviL But time, that
traitor, that destroyer of all good resolutions,
by weakening the impression will impair my
justification.”
“ Time has many things to answer for, as
well as good to be ascribed to; we can make
him our enemy as well as our friend. I am
unwilling to have recourse to the world's pe­
culiarly effective mode of consolation, apd say,
‘ A h ! I told you how it would be,' and, ‘ if
you had but listened to my advice I”
“ Depend upon it your unwillingness cannot
begreater than mine. Certainly, ifgifted with
nootherpraiseworthyquality,youhaveonelaud­
able distinction, and that is, that you obtrude
your advice in such small quantities that the
doses have more an agreeable pungency than
otherwise. I do not think you will ever offend
my peculiarities in that respect.”
“ Are you clear that the cautious propor­
tions in which my advioe has been administered
ATCHESLEY. 91
have not been more beneficial, because not
equally obvious, than if a contrary course had
been pursued.”
“ You are right,” answered his neighbour,
“ and your position will carry double. Nothing
could better have satisfied me that doctors are
inimical instead of friendly to the constitution,
seeing that it is their interest to reiterate
their medicines, and that the too constant ap­
plication of an intended remedy will neutra­
lise its operation.*’
“ You are become a close reasoner, I per­
ceive,” said the individual in green, with a
quiet smile, “ if of no other advantage, the cir­
clesof Paris have done yougood by sharpening
you into a casuist, Is it not almost a pity
that the newly acquired attainment came too
late to serve you in balancing probabilities ?"
“ Ah!” cried his companion, “ I see what
yon would be at: honest as you are, Atcher-
ley, you have yet something like a malicious
bias to hovering over a sore subject. You
AYCBBBT.BT.
p u t m e in mind o f on# o f those insects which
become more pertinacious as the object of their
persecution is more extensively galled, A
whole sk in invites not th e one, and a sound
cwmaeleiice defies the other.
“ Yon are the only man I over met,” re­
turned he who had been styled Atcherley,
“ whose candour provoked an observation like
your hurt. Caadonr in monte oases is a virtue;
in others an indiscretion. Is laying bare a
fault likely to add to the reaped of others?
would the exposing of has weakness by a com­
mander probably increase the forbearance of
an enemy? Yon will say that those to whom
only you wonld be oandid are likely to be the
reverse of inimical: but do we not all flatter
ourselves with the belief that we reach a
satisfactory standard of goodness, and must
not the confession of a dereliction imply an
inferiority in another. But do not quarrel
with what yon call my hovering over a sore
subject; you were fearful but now that time
ATCHEBLEY. 97
hit meaning was by n o meant apparent, the
very reverse; “ the equanimity to whioh it
gives rise is favourable to reflection. I do
not apprehend Sir Beginald Torrington would
be inclined to make up the deficiency in
your fortune; and yet he might have reck­
oned his dignity was compromised in the un­
fortunate affair.”
" I am sure he would not; it was at my
departure for a species of voluntary exile,
undertaken principally at his representations,
and my vim of them” the la t te r w o id s wore
uttered with peculiar significance, “ that he
besought me by all means to be economical, as
his own inoome, whatever i t might appear,
.was comparatively -scanty; you know in
what light, Atcherley, we are to take the con­
cluding assertion.
An acquiescent gh of thoughtfulness was
the only reply.
“ I t was singular, however,he should attempt
to mWead me by it .”
you n r
98 ATCHBRLEY#
“ All I” said Atcherley, with a meaning
smile, “ Sir Reginald has as much philosophy
as his brother; but do yoa not think that that
philosophy which can be seen through, scarcely
deserves the name?”
“ I do not exactly see that philosophy,
to be genuine, should affect obscurity,
or that it would be necessary in our in­
stance.”
“ Its application may necessarily be more
general than yon imagine,” replied Atcherley,
drily. *
*Yon hare one consolation, however,
in this business, and that is, that the loss
of the money could not have affected your
position with Rockingham as ‘ ’ '■daughter.”
“ It would not directly,” answered his friend,
1
4but. Implying extravagance, might have
heightened the disadvantageous light in which
he views me. I am fated to I* unsaceeesfut
in everything. I tried in vain to persuade
Julia to a secret marriage, urging myability to
procure her all the gratifications to which, in
atchbhuk*. 99
the house of her father,, she was aocostomed,
uni my unalterable lorn Beth inducements,
poor as they were, but all I had to offer, were
insufficient to shake what she called her duty
to her father, and her unwillingnesas to take—
what appeared to her—so strange and impru­
dent a step. In holding out to her a belief
that I was capable of supporting her in the
mode I wished, without hesitation or difficulty,
I somewhat overstep! the trothand this pre­
sent unfortunate accident, as you are pleased
to oail it—though I could not then have it
in contemplation — has widened the dere-
Setiao.”
.u The proposal was scarcely prudent, and
eould not have failed ©fproducing mortification
porhap on both sides. Her forbearance was
commendable, for yon have reason to think
she levee yon.”
. “ The conviction,” answered his compa­
nion, “ adds to my impatience and dis­
tress 1
”
v 3
i.
ATCHERLEY.
" And now that you are returning to your
brother's house, and consequently to her
neighbourhood^ what course do yon propose to
pursue?”
“ I do not know: in returnisg I have
merely gratified that restlessness which longs
for change. When the decision was made, I
fancied 1 could not rest in her neighbourhood;
and when I found myself a greater distance
from the spot from which I had wandered
than I was willing to think of, I discovered that
while my body was In Paris, my mind was in
Derbyshire.”
“ A material and not altogether convenient
separation,” muttered Ateherley. ” Now to
tell the troth,” he oontiaued, in a more audi­
ble tone. “ I do not see the matter in the same
difficult light as you. You are one of those
despairing lovers who are too dispirited to
grasp with the obstacles that arise in their
path. Foiled in the outset in what they deem
an important point, they lose the false deter*
ATCHEBEEY. m
mination with which they boldly set out, and
give the natter, with a melancholy and wistful
irresolution, over as desperate. Hitherto 1 have
only acted in this matter as a looker-on; ha
carding now and then a word of advice, encou­
ragement or observation: but now I am de­
termined to become a more interested per­
former. Rockingham and I are on very
good terms, and it may be in my power to
assist you. He is accounted wealthy, and
the dowry which, he is able to give his
daughter has made him think himself entitled
to match her with the noble. Strange it
is, indeed, that you 'should so have steered
apart from each other, since there is a parallel
in your mode of thinking which seemingly
you have hitherto overlooked. This point to
which you are unconsciouslyjourneying, seems
to premise, however, to bring you into close
and friendly contact.”
• The look of incomprehensibility which the
ATCSERMST.
young traveller bestowed upon his compa­
nion, was sot anmixed with a speculative
satisfaction.
“ I was not aware,” said he, after a panse,
“ there existed any point of resem­
blance between the father of Jolia and
myselfl”
“ This it has been my lot to disoover,” and
Ateherley. Whib mutant distrust has kept
you apart, your opinions have been the same;
and the similarity of those opinions will ma­
terially change the light in which he views
you. An equal indignation at oppression, aa
equal perception of the nolonger cautious steps
with which tyranny is advancing to triumph,
a requiekening zeal for the threatened liber­
ties of an insulted and degraded oountry, and
a conviction that decisive measures can alone
preserve all that is worth preservation from the
high-seated yet diligent spoiler, form the basis
of similarity, and ought to remove the little-
ATCSEBLEY. 1 0 3
reserve and distrust which it is expedient yet
should remain between ye. The obstacle to
your happiness, I take it, is removed with the
apparent aversion of one whom I may now
call your future fathdr-in-law. You must
be as well pleased to see it effected through
identity of opinion, as I am to contemplate
the easy way in which it was brought to.
pass I”
r. Surprise kept his companion silent for some
minutes. Tiewing doubts and difficulties, which
bad appeared portentous, through the new and
half-convincing medium which so unexpectedly
and yet feasibly submitted to him without
extinguishing had greatly impaired their
force, he seemed unable to appreciate or
admit the tangibility of the means by which
they had been so simply and felicitously
changed.
While his fear and disinclination to believe
what Appeared a surprise too agreeable to be
substantial, impelled him to review what
ATCHBHlE#.
had bees imparted with a jealous scrutiny, Eli
hopes acknowledged it not palpably assail-*
able, and yet he was kept in donbt how fa*
he might extend his trust. Knowing little or
nothing of Bockingham's opinions, as they
were always solicitously kept in the back
ground, and not having had occasionto consider
how for Us own were in aooordanoe with them,
or whether, having been so, they would have
worked an alteration in his favour, he had bnt
taken his discountenance in a general senae, and
had never earnestly employed himself in exami­
ning from what particular source it happened
to spring.
He had been chiefly inclined, however, to at*
tribute it to the obvious neglect with which
Sir Reginald Torrington treated him, and which
Rockingham would have naturally fancied pro­
ceeded from some well-grounded reason, and to
the calumnious imputations of dissipation and
extravagance which had been cast on bis cha­
racter.
ATCBEBLEY. 105
At present he seemed to think with Atcber-
i ey, that the sentiments of Rockingham had of
date been greatly qualified.
' “ Ah !’* he cried, taking the hand of his
friend, and shaking it with candid fervour >
*l I can perceive your silent yet industrious
and friendly interposition in this most unex­
pected change.”
“ Which has been partly effected during the
first part of your residence in France, and dur­
ing which yon will remember I yet remained
in England. Rockingham has in -his eye a res­
cue of the nation from Popery and misgovern-
ment Though I m
m seldom accustomed to
-give vent to my opinion on such matters, I must
confess the latter has been carried to its verge.
He is inclined to look about for assistants,, and
this political contact of kindred spirits may be
agreeable in more than one way.” .
“ If, as you assert, and I am inclined
to believe,” said his neighbour, eager­
ly ; “ such an advantageous change has
taken place in the point which would
106 ATCHBBX.EX.
have alone uniformly separated us, a visit from
both of us would sot be disagreeable. While
he could not altogether approve of me as a
sear connection, he expressed no objection for
me to continue my visits at bis house in the
character of a friend.”
Atoherley had now brought his friend round
to expressing that of which he had himself a
desire. He had a singular partiality for
making a companion in person bring the
very thing forward which he wished himself,
while it was apparently wholly a mat­
ter of independent thought. While the
person upon whom Macalculations rested fan­
cied they were bringing forward a subject ori­
ginating withthemselves,theyhadbeen impelled
by a refined and onperoeived machinery to
unoonsdonsly broach that, the expsessioo of
which had been probably all along angled
for.
Atoherley havingthusthovoughlygratified his
peculiarity—a peculiarity so habitual thatsue*
ATOamuasif. 10?
oessaffordedno unusualMtiafactkm-^xpresseda
purposelypartiallyhesitatingassent,and quietly
observed that a tarn is the road to the right
■would bring theca to the new object of their
destination. Hie companion, losing the air of
easy indifference with which he had impelled
his steed to a constancy of pace, jin one of
impatience, struck the spars lightly into the
flanks of the animal, who, wincing at the un­
expected and unweloojne inducement, started
o ff in to what was a brisk trot for his state of
■hitherto induced exhalation, and bore his
rider some yards m advance of |np politic
fellow traveller.
Agreeably to his -intimation, the road, vie-
ing in sinuosities and roughness with that from
which they were about to emerge* which At-
oherley had mentioned, was discovered, winding
offintosome rising ground.
The younger personage, whose increased
speed notioed above had somewhat thrown
him forward, espying ftbc deviation, drew up
ATCHBBLETT,
in order to confirm his supposition that this
was the turning they were to take by the ap­
proval of his informant. A sign sufficed to
give the information necessary, and the en­
quirer consequently disappeared. He was
shortly, however, rejoined by Atoherley,
who for that purpose bad put his hone in
motion.
Resuming their way with an amended speed
which betokened anxiety to reach the place,
to which they were now bound before the
fading light should entirely disappear,theircon­
versation became more sparing, and was con­
fined to that important matter which had
preceded the present relaxation of discourse.
The younger traveller bad now totally lost
that dispiriting appearance of care and
abstraction, which even a thoughtless and
vivacious temperament like his own could
not prevent seizing him, and when obtruded,
was insufficient to shake offi With a happy
indifference to, or rather forgetfulness of the
ATCHERLEY. 109
past, germane to his cast of mind, and of utility
sufficient to throw that on one side the remem­
brance of which, as well as useless, was pain­
ful and irksome, he seemed to possess the
agreeable facility of shifting his views till
one was presented sufficiently congenial to be
entertained.
That which we are anxious to believe we
reconcile to onr doubts and accept as under­
stood. Our eyesight then appears to assume
the faculty of perceiving all which we are
desirous to behold — and we adjudge the
object must be as palpable to other peopled
senses, as we have flattered ourselves into the
conviction it is to our own. We will not permit
ourselves to examine whether our wishes may
not have had some share in the creation, but
acknowledge it, and want that strength of
mind which will thoroughly examine before
it coincides.
Highly pleased that so much of the diffi-
no aic&
bblet.
culty which opposed him had given way,and
eager to conclude that the work, thus well
begun, would soon yield to hia effort*
he merged the eosatemplation of any re­
maining obstacle in the gratification excited by
that success already achieved, and the smiling
probabilities that on every side arose to cheer
him, Eager to feel himself in the .condition
•so much .and yet so hopelessly'desired, as fully
to the satisfaction of others as already appa­
rent to himself, he exercised a mechanical wish
to re&Uy diminish every moment, the
distance winch his heart had even now over-
leaped.
His impatience, though viable enough, was
not shared by his less sanguine companion.
His aspect was the Mine as before the change
which his communications had worked in bis
listener, and if he bad a trite increased
his speed, it was plain enough it as
much owing to the disinclination to
have darkness with the remainder of their now
ATCHERLEY, 111
rapidly terminating journey, as the partaking
of the young man’s feelings.
The road was now winding through a pic­
turesque andelevated tract; andin the distance,
half concealed by the mists of evening, the
object for which they had digressed from the
road to the original limit of their journey, was
faintly to be discerned.
112 ATCHERLEY.
CHAPTER III.
“ Alas, poor lady1 desolate and left 1
*
Two Gentlemen o f Verona. Act 4. Scene 4.
“ Father’d he is, and yet he’s fatherless.”
Macbeth. Act 4. Scene 2
“ Sirrah, your father’s dead;
And what will you donow I How will you live 1
”
Ibid. Act 4. SceneS.
“ The course of true love never did run smooth.”
MidmmmerNight's Dream. Act 1. Scene 1.
During the short time which yet remains to
our travellers to spend upon the road before
ATCH£H£EY. 113
HiiByreach the habitation of Rockingham, it
may be perhaps more conducive to the tho»
rough understanding of the relative ciroum*
stances under which they are about to re-in-
troduce themselves to Mm, if we give our Bud
reader a slight inright into their character*, and
tiie contingencies whieh first took the compa­
nion of Atcherley to the metropolis of France,
guided his conduct there, and influenced his
not altogether expected return. What may not
have been gathered in its clear and necessary
bearings from the conversation of the prece­
ding chapter, we may by recapitulating in a
connected and less desultory form satisfac­
torily intimate. The necessary information
may be comprehensively and briefly conveyed,
and the motives already partially developed be
at the same time elucidated.
The younger individual already introduced
to the reader, whose name was Roland Tor-
rington, was the seoond son of S r Henry
114 a t c h b e l e t .
Torrington, a baronetof conridezmbla estate in
Derbyshire.
Deriving Us name from an ancient family,
whose possessions in former days, though not
extensive, were valuable, and educated in thane
particular dogmas of royal uni episcopal ae»
cendancy which then viewed with jealousy and
impatience, aftarwiirds became the nomroes of
that convulsion which shook the kingdom to
its basis, it is not surprising that a high degree
of self-value and tnonarehioal prejudice should
have been infused Into his disposition. Though
carefully inducting bis son in all the extre­
mity of his own opinions, and moulding his
opening character upon the model judged so
pre-eminent, Sir Henry’s father confined his
advocacy of the royal cause to a verbal and
passive maintenance. Motives of prudence
might have had their share m this lukewarm­
ness, for those of the landed nobility and gen­
try who had not been able to preserve the
ATCHBRLBY. 115
same laudable neutrality, at the declension of
their royal master's fortunes were severely,
reminded of the side they adopted.
Whatever had been the influence to whioh
this cation was attributable, Sir Henry, on.
the decease of his parent, was wise enough to
see that it had profited him j and acutely
arguing that what had been of advantage before
was likely to he so again, In felt .not only a
disinclination to quarrel with the policy of
which it was the result, but paid it the best of
all coaopHmeots, a steady imitation.
Succeeding to tin family honours in the
early part «f the Protectorate, his conduct was
so perfectly free from the irregularities of
faction, that be was left to preserve to himself
not only the opinions in which he had been
educated, but the temporalities with which
they stood in rather dangerous juxtaposition.
Over the principal body of the Boyalists in
England, which, overawed and seeking no in­
convenient intimation of its presence was yet
ATCHERLEY.
not remote from strength, he was qualified
by his abilities and good birth, still more by
the acknowledged loyalty of his name, though
that name had not been found in the
ranks of the supporters of regality in
the great Civil War, to exercise a by no
means limited or empty influence. But hia
mind had no political bias. Though energetic,
its energy was wasted on things of seoondary
moment: though powerful, its power was
least of all likely to be tested in political and
at the same time dangerous intrigue. Im­
pelled by this self-abandonment, he slighted
many opportunities by which he might have
obtained the confidence of his silent though
observant party, and the future obligations of
him upon whom, in his conviction, he looked
as his sovereign.
And yet there were moments when he
could break through the ice of his caution and
exhibit the qualifications for command which
were really to be found in his character.
Capabilities which might have borne good
c
o
t>
¥
Google
ATCHERLEY. 11?
fruit, bad been obscured if not subverted by
a vicious and injudicious educationj—an edu­
cation by which be had been taught to look
with fondness upon idleness and gaiety, and
contemplate with peculiar complacency the
character of an influential star in the fashion
and frivolity which bad characterised a former
period, and still made part of the religion of
• thorough Cavalier.
The power of his mind—a mind whose
natural luxuriance had ran to waste and pro­
fusely brought forth, flourishing on a light
and superficial sol, instead of the more cau­
tious, slowly developed, and sterling fruits, a
successionof gaudy and ephemeral productions
—those powers debarred from mow honourable
ohannels, all leaned to an epicurism decorated
by imagination, dignified by a sophistical
philosophy, rendered pleasing by a good-
natured though ill-judging generosity, and
graced by a deliberate yet unflinching courage.
He wasin fact the Belial of his party.
118 JLTCHEBLET.
His bias towards a general gallantry was
done ample justice to. T h e lady of rank,
the tradesman’s wife or daughter, and the
simple cottage maiden were each asnwerable
to it.
In one,instance, and but one, his gene­
rosity had been compromised. The case
related to a beautiful female who had yielded
to his arts, and who, after a protection of
some duration, had been abruptly deserted.
The desertion was shared by a male infant,
after whom apparently no enquiry had been
subsequently made by Sir Henry.
. This child, educated and supported by bis
mother until his arrival at years of discretion,
was after her death, which was reported to
have taken place in her thirty-seventh year
and under circumstances of considerable pri­
vation, traced to a foreign country but eventu­
ally lost Bight of. A short time previous to
her death, some enquiry had been instituted
by Sir Henry Torrington respecting her place
ATCHEJW
UET. 119
•of retreat. This enquiry unsuccessful at its
outset, never readied her, and the poor orea«
tore died in ignorance of his tardy solicitude.
Report whispered it to be the result of re­
morse aggravated by illness, for some little
time antecedent to her decease Sir Henry was
seized with what threatened to be a long and
ii4 a n T S M Y tn n d i g p g A p
U U H R S v V B m B C aW Sv
He was fated however to recover, and at
the end of a few months had regained all his
original strength. His good intentions, if he
had ever seriously entertained any, departed
with the illness which had given rise to
them, wad no subsequent inquiries were ever
made respecting his unknown child and its
much injured and scarcely remembered parent,
A few years waned away, and the preceding
events w«re forgotten by alL Providence
however was yet to inflict the severest chas­
tisement upon Sir Henry. The sixth year from
the death of the deserted one was in its com­
mencement, when he was attacked with sudden
ho ATCHERLBY,
and alarming illness, which redating the efforts
of all his physicians, who declared themselves
puzzled with its character, terminated fatally
in a brief apace. The lately gay and gallant
Sir Henry, who had however latterly reioraed
much of the outward unseemliness of his be­
haviour and betaken himself wholly to the
country, breathed his last at his hereditary
residence, Torrington Place, in the forty-eighth
year of his age, leaving two sonB, who at the
time ofhis decease, which occurred in the year
1874, had attained the respective ages of
twenty-one and seventeen.
He was succeeded in his title, estate, and
influence in the county, by the eldest of his
sons. Their mother, the scion of a noble
house, to whom Sir Henry had been wedded
but a very short time after the Hatton noticed
above, had been peculiarly partial to the elder,
whom she fancied, in contradistinction to hia
less fortunate brother, inherited her disposition
in addition to his title to the reversion of the
ATCHEBT.EY. 121
family honours. She died long previous to
the period at which the latter fell into his
possession.
As the family had, as we have before ob­
served, throughout the civil war wholly taken
aneutral or rather totally inactive part, oc­
cupied by their own concerns, and had at the
condemnation and execution of the unfortu­
nate Charles prudently seen the wisdom of
holding their peace upon the political affairs
then agitating, the ruling party -had no pre­
text for interfering with their perhaps still
silently entertained opinions, or sequestrating
m
ay part of their property. A t the death of
Sir Henry Torrington it therefore passed into
the hands of his son, now Sir Reginald,
unaffected by the change which had in a
greater or less degree taken place through the
country.
Sir Reginald, on assuming his new dignity,
brought with him a dignified and prepossess­
ing person, a fine though thoughtful and some-
vol. n. o
ATCHERLEY.
what melancholy countenance, and a disposition
not unamiably inclined though cautious and
reserved. His education had been more
judicious than that of his father, and the events
of the time had taught him forbearance in
opinion and a liberal and unprejudiced mode of
viewing things. Many therefore of the more
arbitrary and unnecessary acta of the profligate
government excited a censure which savoured
of liberalism, and induced him to seclude
himself not only from public affairs and courtly
intrigue, but the atmosphere in which they
saw the light and were successively trans­
acted.
Somewhat niggard of expense, and diligent
in the supervision of his domestic affairs, he
had formed the design of completing his
brother’s education, who, it will be remem­
bered, on his taking possession of hia patri­
mony was some years hisjunior, by forwarding
bis inclinations for a transit to a German
university. On his father’s death, Roland
ATCHEHLEY. 123
Torrington therefore took his departure for the
continent and settled himself in the place
agreed upon.
It was at this place he first became ac­
quainted with Atcherley, who held a sub­
ordinate commission in the Imperial army.
Though dissimilar in several points, their
acquaintance through cultivation ripened into
intimacy; and upon Ateherley’s departure
from the city in which Roland was living, the
latter, whose careless and lively temperament
little accorded with the persevering severities
of study, was after some persuasion induced,
as he suggested by way of justification to his
conscience, for a time to forego the tedious
routine of academical discipline, and seek in
other places for relaxation.
Though for a time betrayed into some re­
prehensible irregularities, Roland was too
much a person of impulse to uniformly or
finally abandon serious and advantageous pur­
suits. After a relaxation of some duration,
o 3
1 2 4 ATCHERLET.
he again, partly at the instigation of his friend
Atcherley, who, singular enough, was the
reverse of what might have been looked for in
so constant a companion, betook hira&lf to the
university, and completed his studies with
more success than might from his eager aud en­
terprising character have been expected.
A few years passed away. Roland’s visits
to England had not been infrequent, and in
one of these Atcherley accompanied him. Not­
withstanding his habitual solidity and caution,
the latter, without any species of effort, gained
so far upon Sir Reginald, that he was once
heard to express his surprise as well as satis­
faction at his brother’s fortune in meeting with
O
so well disposed and profitable a friend.
At length Roland, by the help of his brother,
entered the English army aud fairly settled
himself in his native country. R ot being able
through his own extended resources and his
brother’s liberality to mix in courtly circles,
he unfortunately fell into the carelessness and
ATCHERLEY. 125
extravagance that distinguished the time, and
especially the class to which he had gained
admission. His thoughtlessness made him the
prey of the designing; and his extravagant
habits involved him in difficulties for the
sober examination of which his aversion to
laborious and at the same time disagreeable
pursuits perfectly disqualified him.
Sir Reginald's perplexed disapprobation of
these indiscretions was greatly aggravated by
a circumstance which he had but recently dis­
covered. Oliver Rockingham, who had been
a bold and sour schemer during the Protec­
torate, thoroughly disappointed in all his
political manoeuvres by the unfavourable turn
for them affairs since the Restoration bad
taken, had secluded himselt in disgust wholly
from his former occupations, in an old mano­
rial building situated in the neighbourhood
of Torrington Place, to which his family had
some antiquated but successful claim. Their
vicinity had gradually brought companionship
ATCHEHLLY.
about, and Sir Reginald was more than sus­
pected of having formed an attachment for
his neighbour’s daughter, an attachment of
which Rockingham had no reason to disap­
prove, had it met hie ear in any more palpable
form than that in which it did, namely as
a general though somewhat cautious ru­
mour. Rockingham, stern, direct and selfish,
either paid it no attention or disbelieved it
in toto, as no advance on the subject had ever
been made by Sir Reginald.
The affair was in this vague and scarcely
existent state, when the vivacious Roland
quitted the continent and hastened into Derby­
shire. The acquaintance which between
Rockingham and Sir Reginald had been built
upon weekly instalments, much in the same
cautious manner as a besieger makes his ap­
proaches to a hostile fortress, or two enemies’
ships manceuvre until they tardily ascertain
each other’s friendly character, was in Roland's
instance little more than the work of a day.
ATCHEBMSV. 1 2 7
To Rockingham’s cold and solemn reserve he
paid little attention, treating it as a matter
of course, and letting time soften him. A
short time served to convince him that he was
thoroughly in love with Julia Rockingham, and
that the feeling which had hitherto passed
under its name was but a type, a shadow of
the true thing. Julia, unlike her father,
though less the creature of impulse, approached
in many particulars to the character of Roland.
It was not till some time after she had laughed,
when there was no observation, at the grave
peculiarities of her republican father and the
statue-like reserve of Sir Reginald, in concert
withRoland, that she all at once discovered her
enjoyment coaid not have been so great had
there not been a strong predilection existent
for the partner in her merriment.
This conviction imparted to Roland an in­
terest which though as fnlly existent before
bad never been perceived. She had assented
to, but did not analyse her feelings; and
128 ATCHERtiEY.
pleased with the unknown charm which seemed
newly to have fallen upon her life, did not
stop to trace from what source it was derived.
Julia and Boland were not long in coming to
an understanding, and entered into their new
position with all the ardour and.delight which
distinguished .their nature.
Boland’s application to her father, as we
have seen, was unfortunate, as well as bis
scarcely prudent endeavours to persuade Julia
to a clandestine marriage, Bockingham’s ob­
jections were founded on reasons which have
been hinted at before. The character gene­
rally ascribed to Roland, doubtless as usual
much exaggerated, was the reverse of advan­
tageous, and the silence of Sir Reginald on
the subject gave it a stamp of authenticity :
besides, having particular though as yet un­
developed reasons for thwarting Boland’s views
with respect to Bookingham, Sir Baginand,
though in a secondary way, was not unwilling
to effect an unfavourable interposition.
ATCHERLEY. 129
This interposition, though not in the least
suspected by Roland, was assisted by his rest­
less and painful disinclination to remain longer
in a spot which was fraught with so many
cheerless and bitter recollections. This dis­
satisfaction with his present abode and morbid
longing for change was carefully instigated
by his brother, whose natural desire was to
get rid of so formidable a rival Every repre­
sentation to this end was urged in so insinuat­
ing and quiet a manner, that Roland was more
quickly awakened to his present uncomfort­
able position than he otherwise might have
been. He saw that his presence was undesired
at Tomngton Place, and caught eagerly at
what his high spirit instantly decided was the
consequence.
Sir Reginald’s wishes were soon gratified.
Roland departed for France j and after wander­
ing mechanically for some time about the
country, fixed his residence at the metropolis.
When he last parted from Atcherley, the
ATCHKHI.BY.
latter, with an intimation of a speedy revisit,
returned to Germany. Boland departed in the
interim; and when his friend again went into
Derbyshire, he was coldly informed of the
occurrences which succeeded his departure.
Little could escape the sharp sightof Atcherley.
He saw that something was wrong with respect
to his friend, and determined to sift out the
particulars. Of his love for Julia Rocking­
ham, which when Atcherley was before with
Boland had not been reversed, through his
ingenuous though premature disclosure, by
her sour-minded father, he was not uninformed,
and at once suspected this was in some way
connected with his exile. To come to a
thorough understanding he paid a seemingly
casual visit to Oliver Rockingham, and easily
through indifferent. enquiries made himself
master of all he wished to know.
Resolving neither to follow Roland or to
inform him of what he was doing in his
behalf till lie had fully succeeded, his visits to
ATCHERLEY. 131
Rockingham’s house became frequent, and a
most importaot- discovery which he was able
some time after to make, put him on such
confidential terms with his host, that he was
able, by the exercise of some tact, to clear the
way for Rockingham’s approval of the suit
which he hadbefore so entirely discountenanced.
Oliver was blunt, and but little given to the
exercise of any art. Atcherley soon became
aware of the strongly inimical light in which
the former beheld the reigning monarch and
the measures of his arbitrary government,
and fished out an acknowledgment that a
league was in progress for their immediate
counteraction. Of a person whose declared
opinions so closely corresponded with his own
—extreme as the latter were—Rockingham
could have no distrust: the outlines of the
conspiracy then agitating were therefore laid
open to him, under the fullest assurances of .
secrecy, and at least passive assent.
His object thus obtained, Atcherley took a
ATCHESliBT.
moat friendly leave of his confiding host, and
hastened to Paris. Roland and Atcheriey
again met; but with that peculiarly refined
policy which he had on many occasions so
successfully put in practice, the latter forbore
making any direct revelation .of what he had
been able to compass in Roland’s behalf. He
found his friend reckless and misanthropic;
anxious once more for change, and impatient
of his voluntary exile. Finding that he was
sufficiently predisposed to revisit England
without any new or powerful inducement,
Atcherley, who to further his objects never
put a greater eDgine into operation than was
necessary, left his desires to work out their
own conclusion, and determined to take his
time in the discovery.
Hopeless and disappointed, Roland, during
his stay in Paris, bad fallen into a babit of
gaming, though his funds for the purpose
were slender enough. There was something
in the feverish excitement thus induced, the
ATCHEKLEY 133
occupation of thought and quelling of retro­
spection, to which his broken spirit eagerly
clang. Atcherley was too much a man of
the world to abruptly combat this predilection.
He contented himself, anxious not to create
an interference, with suggesting the little ad­
vantage there could ever be in such pursuits.
He knew that Boland was highly impatient
of advice, and, so, solicitously prevented the
reflections made from assuming the disagreeable
form. Determining to keep so keen an eye
over his movements that he might unseen
hinder a formidable loss taking place, he
allowed affairs to take their own course, which
as the case stood was perhaps the most advis­
able conduct.
A few days however before that destined
for their departure, Roland, during the tempo­
rary absence of Atcherley, lost so great a sum,
that he seemed unwilling, although his friend
never in the slightest degree pretended to
curiosity or interference, to mention his mis-
134 ATClIKfiLEt,
fortune. Hoping to recover that which had
been so carelessly thrown away, the next even­
ing he attended the same table: but ill fortune
seemed to pursue him. Instead of recovering
he doubled his losses, and at the strong per­
suasion of Atcherley, who in the middle of
the game had entered the room and joined
his friend, he quitted the scene of his
evil fortune, vowing, as usual in such cases, to
take a final leave of play.
We have seen that Boland announced his
entire loss as reaching to “ two-thirds of the
whole.” By *
*the whole” was signified the
small fortune which had been left him by his
father, and beyond which his independent
means did not extend. The money was paid,
and with Atcherley’s assurance of finding
some means of retrieval on their arrival in
England, the subject was not frequently agi­
tated. The amount of the full loss Roland
promised to lay before his friend when circum­
stances should allow them to composedly and
ATCHSRLEY. 13d
securely look into the business. With these
views they quitted Paris and bent their steps
towardsEngland. Looking on Torrington Place
ashis hereditary home, Roland determined, for
at least a time, to make it his residence, think­
ing that he would, after another attempt to
shake the resolution of Rockingham—or, at
least that of bis daughter—betake himself to
London and look out for means to make up
for the deficiency in his fortune. When in­
troduced to the reader, he and his friend had
nearly completed their journey. The com­
munications of Atcherley, as we have seen,
changed their object; and we shall now beg to
rejoin them at Rockingham’s gate.
ATCHEHIEY.
CHAPTER VL
“ Casco,—Hold my hand :
Be factiousfor redress of all these griefs;
And I will set this foot of mine as far.
As who goes farthest.
Cassius—There’s a bargain made.
Now know yon. Caeca, I hare moved already
Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans,
To undergo, with me, an enterprise
Of honourable-dangerous consequence.”
Julius C<e$ar,
“ Imogens.—My lord, I fear,
Has forgot Britain.
lachimo.—And himself. Not I,
Inclined to this intelligence, pronounce
The beggary of his change ; but ’tis your graces
That from my mutest conscience, to my tongue,
Charms this report out.”
Cgmbeline.
The hamlet at the endof which Rockingham’s
house was situated, was scarcely of any
length: and, having rode smartly through it,
ATCBEBLEY. 1 3 7
our travellers found themselves at his ancient
gateway.
Darkness had now bo fallen met the scene
that no part of the boose, which was sur­
rounded with trees, and nothing save the ivied
outer wall and tall iron gate, could be distin­
guished. The sky was full of clouds and there
was but little or no wind: the village had been
left some distance behind, and the approach
to the house, except to a person well acquainted
with it, was not so easily discoverable.
Atcherley, however, had paid the place too
many visits to mistake his bearings ; and it
was with the most self-satisfying confidence
that he quickly dismounted and applied his
hand to the bell. After some delay, the gate
was slowly opened, and an enquiry put re­
specting the business of the applicant for ad­
mission.
Theanswerappeared satisfactory, for,gravely
doffing his cap, the porter threw open one of
ATCHERLFA.
the gates and invited the horsemen to enter.
On complying with this invitation, they found
themselves in what appeared to be a broad and
stately though somewhat neglected avenue.
The night, however, prevented them from see­
ing distinctly. The wind blew chillily down the
trees; and it was with some alacrity that they
followed their conductor to au inner entrance,
situated some distance from the gate at which
they had obtained admission into the grounds.
Here he paused, and intimating that he could
take charge of the steeds, assisted their riders
to dismount. After touching the bell, a sum­
mons which was not long being answered,
he desired the attendant to announce the
arrival of guests and walked off to the
stable.
Boland and Ateherley were first shewn into
a lower apartment. The silence of the house
was only disturbed by the footsteps of the ser­
vant, who soon returned and quietly announced
ATCBEHLEY. 139
the readiness oi his master see them. Motion­
ing the man to precede him, Atcherley rose,
and followed by Boland, whose sensations were
sufficiently tumultuous, ascended the wide and
ponderous staircase. Arrived on the first story,
a door to the right was opened through which
light was visible. Unannounced they passed
the solemn-looking attendant and entered the
apartment.
The room was large and lofty; well, though
somewhat scantily furnished, and bearing the
impress of a cold dignity. Three windows,
now concealed by dark green draperies, were
on one side; a few ebony cabinets, embel­
lished with inlaid work, old-fashioned high-
backed chairs, the damask seats of which were
sadly faded, and other pieces of cumbrous fur­
niture, on the other. At the upper end, over
an architectural chimney-piece of oak, was a
smoky portrait of the great Hampden, whose
forehead was the only point which had escaped
1 4 0 ATCUEBLKY.
the genera! obscuration. A pedigree on dis­
coloured vellum was on one side of the paint­
ing, the ramifications of which were sufficiently
Intricate: and some framed conveyance, in
black letter, on the other. The apartment too
was half in darkness; for the light of the two
tall and sickly tapers, exalted upon a highly
venerable pair of pole-like candlesticks, was
insufficient to dispel the many shadows which
hung about the room. The scanty light, the
size of the apartment, the heaviness of the fur­
niture and the melancholy hue of the walls,
created an uncertainty through which the eye­
sight had much difficulty to pierce.
Two figures were discernible at the farther
end, who rose as their visitors entered. On an
approach their characteristics were more parti­
cularly visible: one wasan old man, the other
a young lady, and a glance sufficed to intimate
what sort of persons they were. Of each we
must give some description,
The lady was attractive. To judge from the
ATCHEBLEY. 141
girlish style of her radiant features, the flash
or melting of her rich dark eye, and the lovely
bloom of her cheek, her years could scarcely
have numbered nineteen or twenty. Her
height was not great, though had she been less
faultlessly moulded something might have been
been added to it Her figure, delicately ronnded
and symmetrically outlined, was captivating,
and fairylike, her step elastic, mad her move*
ments natural and lively. From the hem of
her dress glanced a foot and ancle so tiny and
ravishing, that it seemed almost a profanation
for them to touch so rough a thing as earth.
About her lips—lips red and full as cherries—
there appeared to flit a roguish enjoyment
that seemed to flatter though indulged
at your own expense. Gratified, indeed, to
catch her notice at any cost, the eye could only
reply by a gaze of fascinated admiration, dis­
armed of its accustomed weapon*, and eagerly
subscribing an entire and delicious surrender.
Her complexion was dazzlingly fair ; except
1 4 2 ATCHERLEY.
when the luxuriant colour mounted in excite­
ment to her cheek, and deepened the rose-hue
that ruled it as its home and broke upon a brow
that beamed with tenderness and intelligence.
Full black eyes, arched by lightly pencilled
brows, and swimming in a tender yet witch­
like langour, now raised in speculative and re­
awakened interest, now chastened into a hea­
venly devotion, and now dashing, in full
triumph, their glorious merriment, alternately
glanced upon, or dazzled the beholder.
There was little of thoughtfulness in her
features: what there was of it appeared to be
expended upon passing and immediate objects.
Hers was not the silence of abstraction but
enjoyment; unoccupied by grave images, and
dealing only with that which was most lively
and attractive. Her mind was as buoyant as
her figure, avoiding the heavier things of life,
and associating only with the airy, the gay,
and the superficial. To a perception more
quick than profound, and a capacity more or-
ATCHERLEY. 1 4 3
namental than extensive, she added a sanguine
and light-hearted temperament, which only
saw sunshine where others saw shadow, con­
templated nature’s face as drest in smiles, and
looked upon the world and the people which
it contained, with wonder that the one in being
accused of deceit and disappointment, and the
other of treachery and wickedness, should have
been so hastily and grossly libelled.
You would have associated her with warm
suns, spring flowers and perfumed breezes.
Surrounded with the sweets of nature, removed
from the cares, noise, and subtleties of the
world, unmocked by the asperities of rigorous
and inhospitable winter, she would seem in
her proper element. Over such a creature,
light as the clouds as they float in a summer
sky, buoyant as the leaves when they flutter
in the evening wind, and dazzling as the sun­
shine when it lights some beautiful landscape,
death would seem to have no power. Look­
ing in her face, a strange regret would creep
ATCHBSLBY.
over the heart, that so beautiful a creature
should ever be fated to grace his black do­
minion.
Her father seemed strangely different in ap­
pearance as well as character. He was tall
anil stoutly framed, with powerful limbs and
broad shoulders. Though advancing in years,
his 'back had not yet received the slightest
bend; and his iron visage was marked with
very few wrinkles. Thera was a cold and
marble-like self-possession in his countenance
that seemed not capable of being easily dis­
turbed, and his large gray eyes were deter­
mined Bud collected. His face was weather­
beaten, and embrowned to an unusual depth
by much exposure. Brown hair, much
intermixed with grey, fringed the back of his
bead: his forehead was broad and of a pecu­
liarly grave formation; and his shaggy brows
beetled over his eyes like the 'bust of an old
Boman Emperor.
The drees of these individuals, notwith-
ATCHEBLEY. 145
standing their near relationship, wassufficiently
contrasted. The lady was attired in a robe of
bine silk with hanging sleeves, decorated
with lace and knots of ribband. Slippers that
might have rivalled those of Cinderella, and
silk stockings were upon her feet. Her hair,
simply confined with a blue ribband, fell in
luxuriant tresses over her shoulders; and
round her neck was a chain of gold Her
lather wore a lull coat of dark-coloured cloth,
cinctured at the waist, and with sleeves similar
to those of a herald’s coat. A silk cap was
upon his head, and his feet were thrust into
capacious slippers.
Rockingham paused a moment on first see­
ing his visiters; perhaps in uncertainty who
they were, as the light was not sufficiently
strong to decide the question at a single glance.
The first few words of Atcherley however
satisfied him.
“ I am never long,” said the latter as he ad-
VOL. II. H
ATCHERL1 T.
vanced up the room, ‘‘ in being recognised.
I see, sir, that you have now discovered who
your visiters are. Mademoiselle, I have the
pleasure of asking how you have been since I
last had the honour of seeing you: you per­
ceive that I have usurped the privilege of an
old friend —
a title, Mr. Kockingham, to which
you will think I am not altogether entitled —
and taken the liberty of introducing a friend
of mine: one with whom, I am given to un­
derstand, you are not unacquainted.”
The first embarrassing moment of a fresh
meeting was thus felicitously got over.
Though Rockingham had last parted with
Roland under the most apparent friendly cir­
cumstances, there was mixed in the discovery
who his second visiter was a natural stiffness,
that would have rendered the greetings which
would have been consequently exchanged
somewhat embarrassing to both parties. With
Julia the case stood still more disagreeable.
Her eyes were quicker than her father’s, and
ATCHEBLEY. 147
no sooner had the visiters entered than with a
throb of the heart she saw who one of them
was. A momentary blush, that was no sooner
there than gone, flitted over her cheek; and
she instinctively rose, bowed, and resumed her
seat; soonerthan under different circumstances
she might lave done. There was an uneasi­
ness in her manner which—observed with a
slight smile by Atcherley—told well for
Boland; and though she was two or three
times going to speak, she mechanically turned
her eyes towards her father, as if afraid to
trust the firmness of her own voice and anxi­
ous that he should give the welcome for both.
Roland felt also very awkward and very
much as a lover would under such circum­
stances. His bow was remote and almost
coldly polite ; though, by a strange yet natural
contradiction, his heart was beating with ex­
citement. He stammered out a few words in
answer to Rockingham’s instant greeting; and
singular as it may appear, not daring to trust
h 3
ATCHEB1.ET.
his eyes in Julia's direction, hardly addressed
her. Julia, also, after one stolen glance at
her lover, made the usual enquiry as to state
of health of Atcherley, and seemed desirous of
keeping her regards on that side of the apart­
ment.
Atcherley haring thus softened the first
minute of reunion by rapidly speaking that
which we have seen above, and, still more, by
the easy openness of his manner put all parties
at tolerable ease, drew a seat towards the
table, motioning at the same time for Boland
to do the same, and Rockingham to resume
the chair from which he had arisen.
Debating an instant in his mind whether it
would be better to take notice of tbe more
agreeable circumstances under which Boland
was again admitted to the family, and so put
all parties, through explanation for each, right
with one another, or to pass it over altogether,
and let the conversation flow onward as if
nothing bad intervened, he glanced around him,
ATCHERLEY. 149
and from the expression of the faces of the
party decided tor the latter.
Ifon are looking better,” said he, address­
ing himself to Rockingham, " than I remem­
ber to have seen you for some time: change
of air does not seem to have the influence
usually attributed to it, fot I and Roland have
of late sufficiently shifted our locality, and I
am convinced you can discern no change in
our physiognomy. I am afraid that we shall
almost do too great justice to your supper;
for a long journey sharpens the appetite, es­
pecially when carried through, as in our in­
stance, with few interruptions for its satisfac­
tion.”
“ I am pleased to hear so,” answered
Rockingham. “ Thank Heaven I we are not
badly supplied with the means of answering
our natural wants, and what my poor house
can afford I need not tell thee thon art welcome
to.”
“ It has always been with a kindred spirit
ATCHEBLEY.
to that in which they were offered that I have
accepted your hospitalities. If I had not
known they were freely bestowed I should
not have so freely availed myself of them.
You will learn from Boland that we have in­
truded on you before the threshold even of
Torrington Place answered to oor entering foot­
step."
“ I am not given to much speaking,” an­
swered Rockingham, cordially, “ on Blight
matters. When I say that I am glad to see
ye both, I hope I shall be credited for more
than is expressed in the simple phrase. And
yet there is more heartiness in the plain *I am
glad to see thee,’ than the loquacity of the
present day is willing to acknowledge. Roland
Torrington, here is my hand: thou hast a friend
in thy neighbour whom I need not tell thee to
appreciate.”
Roland took the offered hand and shook it
with fervour.
“ Thou art a good lad, and I have hopes of
thee. But let me not be inattentive: ye have
ATCHRRUEY. 161
ridden far and fast, and it is not meet that ye
wait for a later hour. Julia, bid a servant
prepare us our evening repast.”
“ I dare say, father, it is ready,” answered
Julia, “ shall I make known your wish ?”
“ Do so,” was the reply.
Julia accordingly took up a bell that lay
upon the table, and rang it. A servant was
promptly in waiting with the evening meal.
The conversation was kept up during the in­
tervals of eating, and by the time the repast
had finished it had beoorne general and unre­
strained.
“ You did not take London in your road
hither?” demanded Rockingham. “ ’Twas
something out of your way, but you might
have had inducements.”
“ None sufficiently strong,” answered At-
cherley, “ to attract me from my more direct
route. At the moment I had no reason for
visiting it.”
“ Thou did’st not lose aught by avoiding it:
162 ATCHERLEY,
its atmosphere ia more pernicious than those
who live in it are willing to admit, I have
from earl; youth erer had an objection to it,
and pud it only such visits as were indispensa­
ble for badness. And now ’tis doubly dan­
gerous,”
" The neighbourhood of an arbitrary and
suspicions court Is certainly not wholly free
from peril. Yet they who would give battle
to the lion must net he afraid of his den.”
“ Charles, as I am informed, still abides
there."
“ I have heard so too.”
“ He restB in the imagined security of des­
potism: with a nation at his feet, his chains
on their energies, and his iron sceptre waved
over their heads, even the wise man would be
apt to say, ‘ Soul be of good cheer, eat, drink,
and be m e rry b u t the air is silent ere the
earthquake burets; and the bow is most
strained when it sends the arrow with the
AVcnuutunr. 1 5 3
greatest force* and with the deadliest cer­
tainty.”
“ Charles** answered Atoherley, “ rests
contented with appearances. He will credit
danger when he sees it; but, like an unskilful
mariner, he Is contented or deceived with the
brightness of the moment”
“ And well he may be, for the evil ap­
proaches with the caution of age and the fire
of youth. 'Twoald be difficult to betray grey
beads into a premature disclosure of the front
under which they are advancing. Bisk is the
best teacher of prudence. You have thought,
since we parted, upon wbat I entrusted to
you.”
“ I have,” said Atcherley, coolly, *
*and you
see me again.”
“ Boland Tofrington,” said Bockingham,
seriously, turning, after a slight pause, to his
younger visiter, “ when I last saw you our
communications were limited, and our mutual
character, I doubt me not, a matter of specu-
a 6
ATCHKKLET.
lation and distrust I must confess that when
thou didst cross my mind, which wasnot often,
as I was then occupied with affairs the ripen­
ing of which has freed me for other thoughts,
it was but in the light of mi eager, mercurial,
and inconstant youth, of some good intention,
but little solidity. Thou need’st not be of­
fended at wbat I thought of thee, because at
the same time thou wert looking upon me ae
a stern, immoveable, and rigorous enthusiast,
unwarmed bv the charities of life, and living
• * O
for sour and removed self-entertainment. Per­
haps we both erred, through insufficient ex­
amination, and from our proceeding on false
premises; but even then there was something
about thee—that is in thine appearance —
that
did not displease me."
" Your good opinion, sir, was not expended
upon an ingrate.”
“ My views have perhaps since changed:
but that will be seen in our future intercourse.
That intercourse will be great and confiden-
ATCHBHLKY. 155
tial, for, Boland, if thou art what I now take
thee to be, we have much to da”
“ I have no objection to lend a helping hand
in the good work which I have been given to
underatand is about. This of itself is a consi­
derable admission, for I have received on the
part of the individual against the government
of whom our deliberations are to be pointed,
many marks of kindness and confidence.’'
An emphasis was laid upon the word govern­
ment which did not escape Rockingham’s ear.
He looked at Atcherley, who returned the
glance, bat did not speak.
“ We deprecate such lengths,” Rockingham,
quietly said, “ as others went in times gone
by. To lop the unnecessary branches is to im­
prove the health of the tree, to inflict a wound
upon the stem is to destroy it. Yet well mean­
ing though mistaken zeal will sometimes carry
men farther than they at first intended. We
hope to preserve the wholesomeness of our
judgment while we rigorously persevere.”
ATCHBBLHT.
■
: Yet la the flush of success,” said Boland,
“ we cannot always so hold the reins over our
inclinations. I am glad to hear a moderation
in your intentions so frankly avowed, sir, and
do not hesitate in trusting you to the utter*
most. A fear that matters might have been
carried too far, lad all parties present
nothing to do with the enterprise, and the
affair been merely the speculation of strangers,
would, though my silence had been insured
through my natural wishes for the extension
and safety of liberty, have restrained mefrom
becoming a participator; though 1 should at
the same time have wished heartily well to
the principle under which the project was un­
dertaken. But I have no distrust. I am sure
you, sir, would not sanction anything that bad
for its end an unnecessary and gratuitous vio­
lence, and I have such faith in Atcherley, that
while I am persuaded his sharp sight has taken
in the whole business, and that he sees the
ATCHEHLBY. 157
result, I am satisfied that .nothing is contem­
plated which honour would shrink from.”
“ Indeed,” said Ateherley, “ you do me
more thaw justice. I am not so deep in the
secret as you may suppose. I trust, however,
I am not so far gone as to join at all an enter­
prise to which the coolest reflection might ob­
ject. How say you, Master Rockingham?”
“ That he who doubts the justice of our
cause is either diffident or treacherous. Roland
I hope is not the former, and I am certain
will never be the latter”
“ As yet I hare no fear of myself,” said
Roland with a smile.
“ Fear nothing, my son; for by that name
I am not unwilling to call thee. That is
right, Julia, our discourse is uninteresting to
thee, and thy needlework will amuse thee.
We shall require nothing of thee but what
thou volunteerest thyself. I hope my char
raeter is a sufficient guarantee for any
enterprise in which I may engage.
158 ATCHEBLEY.
This evening must be profitably employed, for
I suppose we shall not have your company to­
morrow.”
“ No,” said Atcherley, “ at daybreak we
must ride over to the Place.”
“ Our enterprise draws to a head,” said
Rockingham with interest. “ Here are letters,”
going to a cabinet and bringing out some pa­
pers, “ from the principals in the conspi----- ”
“ Hush!” interrupted Atcherley: “ that is
something of an ugly word.”
“ Thou fearest my domestics. Honest crea­
tures! they are too deeply indebted and at­
tached to me, to play eaves-droppers for any­
thing but my advantage. I trust I am wise
enough, however, to not trust a secret of this
nature to any walls except those which are
round us. Thou need’st not take the trouble
to convince thyself,” he continued, with a
smile, “ how worthy they are of a greater
confidence than I can place in them. This
apartment is a tomb which never returns that
DlglUzMDy Google
f
f
if
c
,,, .
ATCHEBLEY. 159
which is deposited in it. Bui to return to our
business. Here are letters containing much
and useful information. These 1 shall submit
to Boland in private, and lie will see that
the nicest honour cannot except to the
principles and projects there developed. I
shall then fully explain to him the bearings of
our position; free him, if he then chooses,
from the advance already made; exacting
merely a promise of secrecy ; or, as I antici­
pate, receive his tendered adhesion and admit
him into the confederation. His principles
are ours: he condemns what we condemn; he
desires what we desire; to what then can he
object?"’
“ You need not fear,” said Ateberley, “ my
representations have not outstripped the truth.”
*
*I hope not, and 1 think not,” was the an­
swer. “ When thou findeet, Boland, the names
attached to these documents—names high in
the world’s esteem, associated with the vir-
ATCIIEHLEY.
tuous and exalted, and of the first considera­
tion in the kingdom—thy last exception will
be swept away. As yet thou art in a cloud:
but thou wilt prove worthy of our confidence,
and shalt gaze upon that rising light which
others have descried before thee. What
thinkest thou? is not the name of Russel a
beacon worthy of trust ?”
“ Russel!” repeated Roland.
“ Aye, Russel: *tis a name that would con­
firm the v e rie st laggard.”
“ My last lingering objection, could I have
any, would be shamed before his name. Bnt
1 was decided before, and knowing, as 1 do
now, that your project points not to an
extremity as well for a i parties avoided. I
will link myself with those who are most
forward amongst you.”
“ Well, and candidly, and stoutly advanced,”
cried Rockingham. * This readiness shall be
of no disadvantage to thee. Follow me,
Roland Torrington : I have a few matters to
ATCHERLEY. 161
debate with thee in private. One of the
parties whom we leave behind ns may not be
uninterested in the result; and the result
will be, I anticipate, as desired.”
Saying these words, Rockingham rose from
his seat, and touching Roland on the shoulder,
led the way to an inner room of small dimen­
sions, the thickness of the walls of which was
a sufficient guarantee for secrecy. On this
occasion Roland’s eyes did glance round, with
• flash of pleasure, to where Julia eat, with
hen ostensibly fixed upon her work, yet with
her trembling fingers betraying her embarrass-
ment, and a deepening blush rising on her
cheek.
The door closed, and Atcherley and Julia
found themselves alone.
A pause ensued, during which Atcherley
left his seat and slowly paced up the apart­
ment.
“ I may be deceived,” said he, “ but I think
ATCHERLEY.
I can perceive a marked change in Master
Rockingham's disposition.”
“ I am pleased,” said Julia in answer, “ to
find my own' opinion borne out by that of one
who has a character for^penetration. The per­
plexities in which he has been involved some
time since, have given way as time advanced;
and the clearness of his present position has
softened his kind, but sometimes scarcely even
temper.”
" You are pleased to grace roe with a
faculty to which I am not entitled,” said
Atcherley, answering to the first part of her
reply; “ 1 pretend to no more penetration
than my neighbours, I possess no more, and
yet the character has stuck to me. Would
that the ability were more general than it is!”
“ Now I, on the contrary,” rejoined Julia,
“ have always thought that mainly to our
blindnes we owe many of the things that plea­
sure us.”
ATCHERLEY. 163
“ A delusion, whether pleasing or other­
wise, is always dangerous ; and sometimes
our unwillingness to see conceals that orhich
becomes apparent to the eyes of others.”
“ Now you are moralising, and when you
moralue 1 have penetration enough to know
something is fabricating in its shadow. Of
what nature is the battery you are busied in
masking?”
“ We are sometimes obliged to mask many
harmless things because they might be not an­
swerable to the prepossessions of others. I
sometimes have this delicacy, the end of which
your perhaps too eager penetration has exag­
gerated : the latter is the only thing, 1imagine,
we have in common/’
“ I like nothing in common, ’ rejoined Julia
quickly. “ Iam for exclusive possession.”
“ But not in everyinstance,” said Atcherley,
pausing in his walk and laying the tips of his
fingers on the table, whilst he looked with a
quiet smile into her face: “ some matters you
are contented to than.1
*
164- ATCHBRT.BY.
“ Yes: such as the air, the light and the
heat of Heaven.”
" ^.nd sometimes things of more terrestrial
nature. Yonr disposition is not sufficiently
selfish to keep all things to yourself.”
HNo,” said Julia, raising her eyes to those
of her companion, “ I were uncharitable did I
not rejoice the roof which shelters me can
shelter others. I shall never, believe me,
object to seeing it extend its protection to such
an applicant for the favour as stands before
me.”
“ I am debtor to yonr kindness. May I be
permitted to thank you for others who have
•Iso been allowed to partake the grace; or
shall the acknowledgment be made in person?”
Julia’s eyes dropped to her work as she re­
plied :
“ I am not disinclined to accept you as
the representative.”
Atcherley withdrew his eyes, slightly and
ATCHEBLEY. 165
quietly shaking his head, as it seemed to him­
self, and resumed his walk.
“ The enterprise in which your father is en­
gaged has given Mmemployment: employment
is oongenial to him, and I am glad to see that
he is losing the reserve and uneasiness I saw
in him formerly, in the courtesies and good
feeling that much intercourse will bring him.
He will be benefited by the change, and he
will gain much more upon the feeling of
others.”
“ Though I am glad to see the change, I am
something disturbed by the danger that I
cannot avoid seeing in his present pursuits.”
“ Has he told you anything of them ?’'
“ Ob yes 1 he is preparing a remonstrance
to the king, framed more energetically than is
suited to his taste, up-m the late arbitrary acts
of the government. He may be marked for
persecution j and at all events we know it will
be displeasing.”
“ It may be so,” said Atcherley, drily.
ATCHEBLIY.
“ He needs supporters,” added Julia, “ and
counts upon the help of yourself and-----
friend.”
The last word was hesitatingly substituted
for another which more readily came to her
lips.
“ What little I can do is heartily at his ser­
vice,” said Atcberley ; “ and as for my friend,
I am afraid my good offices will be outstept.
Deeper influences are at work over him than
would lie ascribed to me. And yet sometimes
the most placid-looking stream has the strong­
est under-current.”
“ My father does not doubt that you are both
interested in his welfare; and his confidence
has been proven by his openness to-night.
Were you expected by him this evening ?”
“ We were not: our visit was volunteered;
and I take to myself the credit of first pro­
posing it. I had the happiness of some that
are dear to me in contemplation, and seized
the opportunity that presented of forwarding
ATCHEBLEY. 167
it My endeavours I hope have been success­
ful; and I shall have the satisfaction of reuni­
ting the kindly feelings of two whom I respect,
who were separated by an unfortunate mis­
calculation of their tiye natures. Is it not
strange that we should so often accept the
apparent for the real character, and found our
estimation upon a mistake which we at the
same time regret ?”
“ You have self-approval as your reward,”
said Julia, with more frankness than she bad
before indulged in. “ All whom you have
benefitted must thank you.”
“ I do not wish for thanks; for, were our
situations reversed, I doubt not for a moment
the same good offices would be rendered me.
You would have seen Boland had my more
promising interposition not brought him so
directly hither. 1 found him misanthropic at
Paris, and eager, with pretence or no pretence,
to return.”
“ And your arrival induced him at once to
ATCHEBLKY.
do so?” asked Julia, losingher embarrassment,
when Boland was on the tapis, in interest.
“ 1 was eager to release him from the de­
spondence which hovered around him, and so
encouraged his inclination. Conscious that
his recrossing the Channel would quell the
careless and disappointed feelings which had
given rise to a threatening and almost desper­
ate state of mind, I was eager—to get him
away as soon as possible. We know not what
we fall into when we lose our hold of hope.
’Tis the readiest means by which we may lose
our self-respect.”
*•Boland could never be in danger of losing
the last.”
“ He scarcely could. You are perfectly
right. But when it is the case, the world
harshly refuses to look at the vindication.
When a man is overloaded with care and dis­
appointment, when he sees that on which he
built his hopes of happiness crumbling into
total ruin, when he beholds his wishes, hia re-
ATCHEHLEY. 169
sources, hie sympathies with life, his means of
contentment, all gliding from his grasp, and
the world around losing its promising and gor­
geous hues in the changeless and universal
blank of desolation, he becomes reckless of the
world’s opinions, careless of his destiny, and
indifferent to praise or blame, right or wrong,
innocence or guilt. I would not trust myself,
to-morrow, in such a situation.”
“ But Boland never sunk into anything
reprehensible,” said Julia. “ He was not so
utterly abandoned to better influences as the
state of mind you have pictured.”
“ He was neither betrayed into anything
seriously reprehensible nor was he in danger
of falling into a state of mind into which I
should, in bis situation, have too readily been
drawn. All his delinquencies only amounted
to this; that he had been a little betrayed, by
the schemes of Parisian sharpen, into gaming.”
“ Gaming!” cried Julia, dropping her needle.
VOL. II. I
170 ATCHEBUSY.
“ I have heard that it is a fascinating and
therefore perilous vice.”
“ In the absence of other fascinations it may
be attractive; but these things are easily
counteracted. I would lay a heavy stake that
in fnture our friend .would hate a gambling
table. He will be all the better for his expe­
rience. Others, however, with less to with­
draw them from the vice, might have stood in
a somewhat dangerous position. What at­
traction can the dice present when the smiles
of a heavenly loveliness are arrayed on the
opposite side? One might as well be expected
to revel in the baleful glimmer of a marshy
exhalation, when the glorious sun himself in­
vites you to turn your gaze towards him.
Other men, however, not so fortunate, might
still have hovered round the dross. The ig­
norant Laplander may be excused for prefer­
ring his snows of centuries and half years of
darkness, when the green of a temperate region
and the speedy return of the congenial day-
tchebley. 171
light have never met his eye. We linger con­
tentedly in the grossness of earth because the
glories of Heaven are sealed to our vision. All
seems good til we are shown something that
is better: we then become dissatisfied, and
turn with disgust from that which before de­
lighted us. Let us never long for a greater
happiness until we are assured that it is at­
tainable I It makes one uncomfortable.
i 3
172 ATCHERLEY.
CHAPTER V.
“ Jacques.—You have a nimble wit; I think it
wan made of Atalanta’s heels. Will jou a t down
with me t
Orlando.—1 will chide no breather in the world,
but myself; against whom I know most faults.
Jacques.—'flie worst foult you hare is to be in
love.
Orlando.—"Tis a fault I will not change for your
best virtue."
As you Like It. Act iii. Scene 2.
F u r t b e r conversation was prevented by t h e
entrance of Roland and Rockingham. The
f o r m e r , on this occasion, preceded his host;
and it was easily to be seen that a mutual
good understanding had been the consequenoe
ATCHEBCEY. 173
of their interview. There was a smile of self
satisfaction on Bockingham’s lips, struggling
with his habitual gravity, that was not often
to be found there; and Boland’s features
were radiant with pleasure. Julia’s ear, be­
fore the door was opened, had caught their
footsteps; and it was with an eager interest,
which she endeavoured in vain to conceal,
that her eyes turned instantly towards Roland.
As speedily did they fall again upon her
work.
** A new confederate and a near connection,”
said Buckingham, turning towards Atcherley,
“ I hare gained to-night; and to you I am
indebted for the acquisition. The full mea­
sure of gratitude which is owing thee by these
young people, they must see that they pay
themselves. Our interview, as I expected,
has been most satisfactory; and all matters
have been cleared op betwixt us.”
“ Nobody can be more pleased to hear it
than I,” answered Atcherley. “ ’I will be of
ATCHBBLBY.
happy consequence to all parties. Roland,
how dost thou find thyself?”
“ I am experiencing the usual effect of un­
expected happiness,” cried Roland, “ and am
unable to express one half of the things that
are making sad work h e r e h e pointed as he
spoke to his head and heart. “ I attempt to
repay your good offices by wishing you the
same degree of transport as I shall feel when
the surprise of joy is over.”
“ You are kind', but moderate joys accord
best with my disposition. I hope to be never
overwhelmed; for a smack of anxiety gives
an interest to life. Eh him, Monsieur Roc­
kingham; do yon not think that we had better
retire, consult upon onr immediateproceedings
—for I quit you, you know, to-morrow—and
leave our lovers to themselves. I have heard
that in such cases they prefer their own to
the most profitable society. Roland, make
tiie most of your time, for we shall speedily
ATCHERLEY. 175
return. I am by nature jealous of happiness
that 1 cannot share myself.”
Perhaps lie spoke the troth, for his charac­
ter was one of mixed kind. He motioned
Bockiogham to precede him, glanced upon
Boland and Julia, in the half shadow of the
partially opened door, with a smile of strange
meaning—a meaning which it would hare been
extremely difficult to analyse—and quickly
disappeared.
Boland and Julia were nof alone, under
circumstances- of happiness which, at the mo­
ment, they found it difficult to comprehend.
It has been said that “ sudden joys, like griefs,
confound at first;” but the axiom will hold
more fully with the joys than with the griefs.
Grief is communicative; it is eager to dis-
bnrthen itself by words and excite the wonder
and commiseration of those around it; while
joy, in the first flush of discovery, hugs its
enjoyment to itself, and is unwilling to parade
itself through the fear that something may be
1?6 ATCHERLRY.
consequently disclosed to dimioiah a delight
already judged too complete and unalloyed to
be substantial.
Boland did not speak a word; but look*
ing as if his mind wcs at sea sat himself
down next to Julia, and grasped her
hand with a pressure that told how intense
his feelings were. His pressure was gently
returned; but Julia’s conscious eyes were
fixed upon the ground, while she shook her
luxuriant hair sp as to hide her face. Neither
spoke for some time; though ewery now and
then Julia’s quick and roguish eye was slyly
raised to that of her lover, and an arch smile
played about her tempting lips. A t length,
after many attempts to bridle her merri­
ment, the smile expanded into a silent titter,
and at last broke into a long and merry laagh
Boland’s gravity was gone in a moment: and
it was in the fullest sincerity that he re-echoed
her enjoyment.
“ Gravity,” said he, “ does not agree with
ATCHERLET. 177
either of os, and, to speak the truth, it is the
greatest absurdity iu the world to look grave
just now. I must have eat a strangely foolish
figure for you to have laughed at me, But 1
could not help it, and 1 sincerely excuse
you.”
“ How could it be a transgression when the
act was involuntary?”
*
*You are the only person that I permit to
enjoy mydismal looks. But I reallysaw nothing
to laugh at until you set me the example”
“ For a very sufficient reason, for you did
sot see yourself. A third person is best capa­
ble of judging of what is ridiculous when two
foolslike us are placedside by side, and had one
been present I judge that we should equally
have excited laughter.”
“ Perhaps to,” said Bolaad, “ for love often
makes us commit extravagances.”
“ I hope it will not make me commit one
in accepting youthen,"’returned Julia. *‘Mow
dud; the difficulties of others are cleared away,
I 5
ATCtntBLBY,
we must,make some for ourselves, you see.
Confident you must have been of my faith,
when you left me so long as you did with
one who was too busy in glossing over your
indiscretions to take advantage of your ab­
sence.”
*
*Atcherley ?—I would trust him with—
aye, even with you 1
”
“ I am not flattered by such confidence,”
said Julia. “ You should trust me with
nobody.”
“ Except with a representative of whom I
need entertain no apprehension,” said Boland,
as he drew forth a miniature of himself, taken
while he was in Paris with the intention, when
he should return, of presenting it to Julia as
a melancholy token of one she might never
see again. “ I have to beg your acceptance
of this under happier auspices than I expected
would accompany the entreaty. While this
poor memorial was in progress, I was suffering
ATCHEHLEY. 179
more than 1 am unwilling to unfold. Let it
alii remind me of the pain 1 endured.”
“ Aye, a pain so great that you were com­
pelled to seek amusement in the moat objec­
tionable quarters.”
“ Amusement, dearest Julia, I couldnot seek
—for I wished but for oblivion.”
"Worse wad worse 1 you wished but for
oblivion! Had your wish been granted then,
the waters of Lethe would have rolled over
onewhomyouwonldmakemebelieve couldalone
have stood between you and your dean : un­
less indeed I had been unable to hold such a
position, being, as you have sooften asserted of
your desire, its utter limit.”
"And having obtained that limit,” replied
Boland," I have nothing to wish beyond. Few
an so favoured as I have been and hope to
be. We owe no inconsiderable debt of grati­
tude to him through whose disinterested and
fortunate interference die blessing was brought
about.”
ATCHKRX.ET.
“ We owe: Had it not beenbetter if yon bad
confined the acknowledgement to the first per­
son singular ?”
“ Will you not allow that I am justified
in uniting a certain person in it?” enquired
Roland.
“ You have the usual taint of success,” said
Julia, “ and grow presuming. * You see, my
friend, I am grateful to Master Atcherley upon
one account, and that is, that what he has done
has tended to set your mind at ease. I am
naturally good-hearted, and am pained at see­
ing the miseryof others. Uponyoural looked
with my usual compassion, midnowyou are bold
enough to suppose that I was a sharer in and
not the simply concerned witness of it. 1 de­
light in seeing the wretched raised out of the
gulph, to see the arrow of affliction extracted;
ar.d am pleased when a smile flits over that
countenance where of late despair did reteL
Yon were recently to be pitied— 1 pitied yon:
you were a discontented exile, carrying not the
ATCHERLE'i. 181
best of characters with you, and leaving little
of character behind; I chivalrously stood for*
ward trad extenuated your delinquencies: you
stood in need of the strong arm of protection,
authority mud natural influence, and 1 charit­
ably exerted all in your favour: you are now
rising in the estimation of others; I am pleased
at it; pleased because, as I said before, of my
natural good fueling, pleased that a person in
whom I wassomewhat interested should do no
discredit to my solicitude, and chiefly pleased
because you now bear out my former assertion
that you were not quite.so bad as you were re­
presented to be.”
“ Upon my honour and verity,” said Boland,
laughing. “ I ammorebound to you than I anti­
cipated1 Well, the bestpersoninthe worldtore­
tail the particulars ofyour debt is your creditor,
and I see that you keep a moat fair and sys­
tematic ledger. I- will rub off the whole ac­
count at once, and pay you with interest in
182 ATCHERLBY.
three word?; and those words shall be ‘ I love
7 0 a a sterling and exceptionable tender, and
that you’ll allow.”
“ A very shuffling and paper payment;
the promise of a bankrupt; a bad bill that
bears dishonesty on the face of it; a
playing with false cards that would be
detected by the next hand ; an impudent com­
position bad and valueless in every way 1
You may pay Master Atcberley the debt you
say you owe himin coin of such bad complexion
—but as for me, I—I’ll none of it. He may
be satisfied, or seem to be bo, which is the same
thing, for something seems to whisper in my
ear that he has had some crotchets of his own
to gratify in ap p earin g to forward a few of
yours. He seems inclined to put the adage
into practical use, and kill two birds with one
pebble; privately designing while he seems to
aim with indifference at both, to keep the
gaudiest and goodliest for his own private de­
lectation.”
ATCHESLET. 183
“ You do not mean what yon say, or you
would be unjust,” said Boland.
“ I know not whether you are in the habit
ofsaying what you don’t mean. I amsometimes
unfortunately too sincere.”
“ You are a wilderness to me,” said Boland,
“ for I cannot thread the windings of your
mind. I am led away by a hundred false lights
that cheat me of my true path.”
“ Trot along in the fullest confidence, shnt
your eyes, and trust your beacon for a guid­
ance.” ,
“ Aye I when I am convinced my guide
is thoroughly acquainted with the ground
she so rashly and vivaciously runs over.
There are moral sloughs as well as tempo-
nd ones.”
“ Of their situation you will judge when
you are in them,” said Julia. “ No man
can know the shoals of the sea by looking at
the surface.”
“ And who would not prefer the securer ig-
ATCHBBLET.
norwnce to such perilous knowledge? Yon
mast follow my footsteps, and be assured I
shall have eyes for both."
“ So I will; and if your eyes fail to secure
your own safety, the danger yon fall into will
less blindly take care of mine."
rt You would then make my destruction yonr
salvation."
“ Undoubtedly. I should then prevent your
having two deaths to answer for instead of one.
If I could not secure your temporal, I will yet
exert myself for your eternal welfare; and, to
cherish your remembrance, I will take the
greatest possible care of myself. You would
not wish to be forgotten after you quit this
world, would you ? And I will most anxiously
look after my own safety in order that I may
remembet yon.”
Boland’s rising and kindred reply was pre­
vented by tbe re-entrance of Rockingham and
Atcherley: the former’s good-natnred though
not particularly interested eye, passed over
ATCHKRLEY. 185
the couple with a light and satisfied notice;
but that of his companion glanced quickly
and searchingly on Roland’s countenance, and
then upon that of his fair and lively neighbour.
There was something strikingly peculiar in
Atcherley’s gaze: it was not affectedly pene­
trating, making up for deep and genuine ob­
servation by a stare betraying the intention of
the looker, and therefore putting the person
upon whom it was fixed upon their guard; but
there was a careful deliberation in its character
that lulled suspicion to sleep, and flattered by
its unpreoccupied attention. The deep and
rigorous calculation which it possessed, letting
not the moat trifling circumstance escape,
and comprehending at a moment the real in­
tent and bearings of all it examined, lay
concealed under the strongest and most unwa­
vering composure.
For the remainder of the night, which was
now rapidly advancing, the conversation was
general and kind; perhaps a little restrained on
Julia’s part, who, from a species of intuitive
perception, was not so great an admirer of
Atcherley’s character as her father mid Roland
were. There had been a waywardness and
mystery in some of bis words while they were
conversing alone, that had awakened a vague
and yetscarcelyjustifiabledistrust in her mind.
There appeared nothing to bear out her diffi­
dence of him; his behaviour had been noble
and disinterested, and exerted with the most
friendly alacrity in behalf of Boland; bnt the
very length and greatness of his services, the
trouble he had taken and the difficulties be
had overcome, by soma means or other, though
•he blamed herself exceedingly for entertain­
ing them, excited doubts and speculations.
She even heard with some dislike and a
portion of fear, that Boland was to accompany
his now inseparable friend to London and
from thence to other quarters, upon business
of importance which seemed fully understood
as well by her father as his guests. She did
TCHEHl s 187
Hoi hazard an indirect question as to its na­
ture, as she saw enquiry was nndesired and
stood in fear of seeking information of her
father that was withheld. She knew that cu­
riosity—to which in a man he bad great dis­
like, and still more in a female—would be the
readiest means of awakening that displeasure
which recently bad been mellowed into com­
placency, if not good nature. She therefore
sat silent, except when the conversation took
another and an indifferent turn.
She now had but little opportunity for ob­
servation ; for Rockingham—the usual lours
of whose house had been considerably tres­
passed upon—rose quickly, and instancing the
natural fatigue of his visitors, proposed a re­
tirement for the night. This motion was at
once agreed to. Julia retired, alter a cordial
good night from all parties; the visitors were
conducted to their rooms, and Rockingham,
after Beeing, according to custom, that the
house was properly secure, also betook himself
to repose.
ATOHEHLEY.
CHAPTER VI.
" Upon a gentle eminence, nearly a mile to the
southward of the town, were seen, amongst many
venerable oaks and tangled thickets, the turrets of a
castle as old as the wars of York and Lancaster. The
vail of the park ran alongside of the highway for
two or three hundred yards; and through the diffe­
rent points by which the eye found glimpses into
the woodland scenery, it seemed to be well stocked.
Other points of view opened in succession; now a
full one of the front of the old castle, and now a
side glimpse at its particular towers; the former
rich in all the bizarrerie of the Elizabethan school,
while the simple and solid strength of other parts of
the building seemed to show that they had been
raised more for defence than ostentation.”
W alter Scott.
“ We are the fools of time and terror: days
Steal on us and steal from us j yet we live,
Loathing our life, and dreading still to die.
In all the days of this detested yoke,
This vital weight upon the struggling heart
Which sinks with sorrow, or beats quick with pain,
Or joy that ends in agony or fiuntness—
In all the days of past and fixture, for
In life there is no present, we can number
How few—how less than few,—wherein the soul
Forbears to pant for death, and yet draws back
As from a stream in winter, though the chill
Be hut a moment’s”
Manfred.
0 if the following morning Atcherley was up,
i V n D V D f P V
ATvtllfi HJulb*• 189
dressed, and walking, before any of his friends
had arisen; nor did he return to the house
until the breakfast bell had sounded. He had
given directions to have his own horse and
Boland’s caparisoned at an early hour; and
now entered the room in which the others
were assembled with his usual composed and
good-natured aspect.
Boland apparently had thought but little of
their projected departure ; for he gazed with
some surprise on the travelling boots of bis
companion. Naturally enough he was in no
hurry to leave the place in which he found
himself.
Atcherley seated himself, and falling in with
the conversation, after the usual greetings of
the morning, gradually led it round to their
coming departure. He mentioned his own tra­
velling equipments, and good naturedly re­
proved Roland for neglecting his. The busi­
ness which called them he declared admitted
of no delay; especially as there was now no
ATCOKBLBY.
excuse or necessity for it. Roland was not to
t>3 permitted to trifle with his period of proba­
tion, bat was to be alert and diligent in se­
conding what was afoot, as idleness and hap-
pines would arrive in dne time, and he was
not to enjoy the pleasures of his mistress’s so­
ciety until he had proved himself worthy of
her. Rockingham fully seconded Atcherley’s
arguments* and hinted that the stipulated
terms between Roland and himself were not
«
only his adhesion, but his active, unremitting
and immediate co-operation in the business
they all were plighted to forward. The only
road to the possession of Ms daughter he
again and more openly repeated was Roland’s
zealous services towards the prosperity of the
common cause: besides his honour, his word,
were now irredeemably pledged, and being one
of the youngest of the confederates it be­
hoved him to display the sincerest interest and
the greatest activity.
Atcherley also satisfactorily instanced the
ATCHEBLEY. 191
propriety of an immediate departure, aa it
was a matter of prudence to visit Torrington
Place in order to wake no suspicion of the
object of their recent and somewhat hasty re­
turn from France, as well as for other reasons;
and as the time would but with considerable
economy allow for their making it their pre­
sent destination.
It did not require a repetition of these argu­
ments to sharpen Boland for the journey.
Naturally impatient, he was eager to prove
himself one of the most active of the confede­
racy : ambition also whispered him that in the
changes which he was to be instrumental in
bringing about, many roads wonld be open to
him both for eminence and lucrative prefer­
ment which were at present closed. His own
bare resources struck his mind; and eager
with the hope, as well as fired with the neces­
sity of bettering them, he was the first to
start from his chair, though the looks of Julia
seemed somewhat to upbraid him for his pre-
ATCHKHLKY.
cipitancy, and to propoee a glance at the state
of their horses.
All rose instantly. Atcherley led the way
to the gate at which he had commanded the
horses should be in waiting, followed by Ro­
land who was accompanied by Jalia and Rock­
ingham. Atcherley was the first to mount,
and to turn his horse’s head, though he still
reined him in. towards the avenue. Roland,
after shaking bands with Rockingham, kissed
the trembling fingers of his betrothed and
looked into her anxious face. To her eager
demand when he should return, he was for
some moments too much moved to reply.
“ This,” cried Atcherley, “ is a most woeful
leave-taking in sooth ! Roland, whisper thy
true love’s ear, and tell her a month at most
will bring us back, and, if all things go well,
not to so speedily part again. Fair lady,
thou mayest then take *for better or for worse
for richer or for poorer,’ as it may prove, this
byGoogle
ATCHEBjuiii.it. 193
Sir Laggard to thyself. A season apart will
prove his constancy.”
“ You fear it not, do you Julia?” said Ro­
land gaily, vaulting at the same time into his
saddle.
“ I would have said much to thee, but you
give me no time,” said Julia.
“ I could stay by thee all the day: but my
master you see is imperative mid I must obey.
Treasure up every word thou would’st say to me
for our next meeting, and let mi hsvo it
all then. Adieu, fair Julia, till 1 see thee
asrain,”
Reluctantly he turned his horse, and as if
afraid to trust his own determination cantered
off after Ms friend, who had now nearly
reached the outer gate. Both waved their
hands as they rode out of the enclosure, and
after watching until the last sound of the
horses’ hoofs died away, father and daughter
slowly returned indoors.
It was not long before all tokens of Roek-
V
O
L. it. K
ATCHERLEY,
'■1
-
ingham’s house, as well as the hamlet iu, its
I" » ' v • r ’ • 1
neighbourhood, were left behind our travel­
lers; and the speed at whiph^ they were pro­
ceeding promised soon to bring them to Tor-
rington Place.
This mansion was. situated about seven
miles from their late host’s place, of residence;
and the (wooded country in which it lay yrp
gradually disclosing, itself. A few hours*
brisk riding through the shaggy and unequal .
ground over which the narrow rood serpen­
tined, brought them into the par(k in the
centre of which stood the old building.
Here trees of various ages, but chiefly.of
one very advanced, rose in broad and majestic,
masses on every side. The ground, which, was
carpeted with a verdant sward, rose in capri­
cious inequalities, now disclosing all the ro-
n
r
*
*
* .» t ‘ ••» - '•■ • ^
mantic attributes of glen,, glade, and hollow,,
and then sweeping gently off into miniature
vallies, sloping lawns, and rising into emi­
nences. Xt was in truth a noble park, filled
atcberlet; 195
with deer, and of lordly dimensions. The eye
in many places sought in vain to pierce the'
ponderous sweeps of dark foliage, and could
only catch, through the silvery files of the
gnarled and massy trunks of the trees, jets of
sunshine that excited the interest by adding to
the mystery of the sylvan arcades. In the
more open places the summer sun poured down
a light that was inexpressibly bright; gilding
the luxuriant turf into the gayest green, re­
vealing the clouds of leaves that circled above,
and reposing in fervid magnificence upon the
chequered collonades of stems, festooned or
scarfed here and there with ivy and creeping
plants of various kinds and colours. The
trunks, with their many tinted barks, ranked
proudly along, or drew away in perspective.
It was evident that no hand of the spoiler had
been upon these patriarchs of the forest For
centuries had they adorned and flourished in
the park
The woodlands extended around for a consi-
k 3
196 ATCHEBLEY.
derable distance; for nothing met the eye but
the grandest forest scenery.
The mansion itself was one of the most at­
tractive objects on w hich the eye could re s t
The winding road that led through the many
thickets which the stages of the road succes­
sively disclosed, drew round to the front of the
house, and gave the traveller an opportunity
for observation. Its angles and zig-zags were
innumerable; producing a multitude of per­
pendicular shadows, and imparting an air of
much singularity to it. The projections con­
sequent upon such an up and down style of
building stood boldly forward in the strongest
light, and threw out their many turrets, oriels,
and cornices, with the richest effect. The
interrupted and complicated outline of th e
gabled roof-edge, was printed on a sky of the
most beautiful blue; and the many bright
weathercocks, fashioned into the most strange
devices, g litte re d gaily in th e sun. A collo-
made in th e Italian style ran alo n g the front of
ATCHERLEY. 197
the building, and with its elaborate though
scarcely classical decorations, seemed to better
accord with the semi-gothic windows in front
of which it ran, than might, from the incon­
gruity of the different styles, have jeen ex­
pected. The principal entrance, embellished
with a portico with angles, was a series of
fluted columns with rich capitals, cornices and
fantastic pediments, abounding in grotesques,
sculptured conceits and eccentricities, the
effect of all which was heightened by number­
less artfully contrived and singularly effective
fragments of light and shadow. The eye roved
over the whole front with a curiosity that was
well repaid: the slender turrets, whose mould­
ings ramified into those of the ‘building,
softened the harshness of many an abrupt
angle; the bright red bricks of alternate
length that edged every perpendicular outline,
imparted richness and variety to the otherwise
dusky colour of the mossy stone-work; the
protruding chamber-oriels studded those walls
198 ATCHEBI.EY.
in the feces of which they were built, and
were convenient to the inhabitants in more
respects than that of light; and the slender
chimney-shafts, resembling the fcuces of the
ancient Romans, not only afforded a hold for
the clinging ivy, bat tended to vary the hori­
zontal lines, and rose, a snperadded beauty,
over the strangely cut and many-cornered
gableB. In short, the irregular building was
the very beau ideal of an old English country
mansion; conceive! in singularity, overcharged
with ornament constructed.to last, and elabo­
rately finished.
Their arrival had been noticed from the
house; and had it not been for the reserved
and stately manners of Sir Reginald, and his
dislike, especially in Roland’s instance, to any
extraordinary display of good will and wel­
come, one half of the household would have
tamed out to receive the travellers, Roland
being highly popular through the whole estate,
and always even better received, to hie bro-
. /
ATCHEBI,EY. 1 9 9
tier’s great jealousy, than the proprietor of
the domain himself. While to Sir Reginald
was naturally paid the deference and respect
his station and character demanded, towards
Rohnd was exhibited an attachment as sincere
as it was gratifying. The manifestation of
this kindly feeling would have been greater
than it was, had it not been for his brother’s
peculiar disposition, and the authority he ex­
ercised over the expression, at least, of the
opinions in the neighbourhood. Not willing,
too, to give him umbrage, Roland, though he
did not repel, as who could, did not encourage
the avowed partiality which he everywhere
met, and sometimes returned the eager kind­
ness and respectful attentions of the tenantry,
with a caution frond which under other and
happier cireutbstances he would have shrunk.
They had nearly approached the entrance
of the mansion before any notice appeared
to be taken of their arrival. At last a
r
200 ATCHEHLRY.
couple of grooms made their appearance, who
led the horses to the stable. ,
Welcomed on his arrival by some of the old
domestics, who found it impossible to restrain
their satisfaction, Roland, followed by his
fellow traveller, entered the hall and sought
Ms brother.
Sir Reginald Torrington was found in a
Gothic apartment of some size, heavily fur­
nished, and from its two economic windows
commanding views of the woodland scenery of
the neighbourhood. He was seated at a table
which was covered with papers, plans, and
other matters, and attired in a loose robe of
sad colour velvet, cinctured by a belt of mo­
rocco. He rose as they entered, and greeted
them with a bland yet mysterious smile.
His countenance was ranch paler than that
of his brother, and had the traces of thought.
From its expression he seemed not in the most
robust health; and he had a habit of languidly
ATCHERLE 201
raising bis eyelids which savoured a little of
affectation. He was tall and well formed, had
a polished address, and a cautious and insinu­
ating mode of expression that pleased his
auditor. But there was a polite coldness in
his manner which checked friendliness and
familiarity, and kept the party with whom he
was conversing at a guarded and insurmount­
able distance. He was a kind of person upon
whom you could not gain: always scrupulously
affable and condescending, yet mixing with
that affability an air of wliich you could not
lose sight, and which kept you just at the point
where you set out
“ Roland Torrington,*' said he, smiling and
shaking his hand. “ I need not tell you, that
1 am pleased so soon again to see you. Mas­
ter William Atoherley will accept my assur­
ance that he is as fully welcome as he could
wish!’*
“ I do not doubt,” answered Alcherley,
that Sir Reginald Torrington will keep pace
x 5
ATCHEHIJCY.
with the extremeat wish I coaid have formed
on the subject.”
“ You have ridden fisr aid. fast, I dare say,”
said Sir Reginald, u and need refreshment.”
Atcherley daring the ride had cautioned
Roland against saying anything about their
call at Rockingham’s place of residence, and
now, before he conld answer, spoke for both.
“ I thank you, bat you will remember that
it is yet early in the day; and we must not
so libel the entertainment at our inn aa
to so soon do proper justice to the cheer of
those whose kitchens are better furnished and
whose viands are more scrupulously selected I”
“ Aye? Yon passed the night then at an inn,
or some such mere refuge for the destitute ?"
said Sir Reginald.
“ Our application for its courtesies then,”
rejoined Atcherley, “ was in character, for a
bad road, a long journey in prospectu, and
a dark night, take greatly from a man’s impor-
ance.”
“ We had more to reduce our dignity,”
ATCHERLEY. 2 0 3
said Roland. “ To the list you must add found­
ered hones, vast fatigue, and empty stomachs !”
“ Wlhat inn did you stop at ?” asked Sir Re­
ginald.
“ Our last inn,” returned Atcherley, with
readiness; rtwas the ‘ Wolf.’”
{*You were a windfall,” said Reginald, “ to
the poor wretch who starves even in keeping a
house for general entertainment, in whom he
might well rejoice. I have heard a few things
of the house, and am but half inclined longer to
tolerate it.”
“ We have reason to thank the fates the sen­
tence has not yet gone forth,”returned Roland.
“ Spare it and you will be repaid by the
good wishes of travellers in a similar situa­
tion to ours. Nothing sharpens a man’s grati­
tude so much as an unexpected provision for
his earthly comfort”
“ Ah, Roland, you are progressing,” said
Atcherley, with a sly smile.
“ Progressing ?—in what ?” demanded Ro­
land quickly, as if afraid of some contretemps.
204 ATCHERLEY.
“ In — philosophy,” returned his friend,
drawling out the last word and ending with
ii yawn. ■
“ You have then indoctrinated him with a
little of your faculty. Master Atcherley;
for I believe yon—possess—or did possess—
or had pretensions to—some of that enviable
gift 1
”
“ Yes enough to know that a piercing
eye is not monopolised by the eagle, and that
when a thing in the distance is discerned by
the glittering, its tendency is to blend surround­
ing objects with itself”
“ I have not a dull comprehension,” said Sir
Reginald, “ and yet I confess my darkness in
tiie present instance.”
“ Darkness is sometimes preferable to
light,” answered Atcherley, with a good-
natured yet careless smile: “ would you not
rather fall over a cliff with a bandage on
your eyes ?”
ATCHERLEY. 2 0 5
" No: seeing the full extent of my danger,
I would prepare to meet it,”
“ Anticipation is the curse of life, and
blinded to your danger, you could not
dread it.”
“ Well your’s is a singular philosophy, I
must confess,” mid Sir Reginald, laughing, u I
am not inclined to follow the ignisfatuus held
forth by each Bystem, or to venture a tilt with
you upon yoar own ground. How can the
speculations of philosophers be beneficial to
themselves or the world, when the principles of
no two can be strained into concord ?”
“ How can three men journeying by differ­
ent roads speak of the objects encoun­
tered in each? Yet they can reach the point
to which the several ways they have taken
converge, and by comparing what they have
severally seen can hazard a shrewd guess at
the nature of the country over which they
have passed.”
Sir Reginald's answer was a glance at At-
ATCHEBLET.
cherley and an incredulous smile. He threw
himself back in his arm chair, pressed back Ml
hair, and turned to Boland.
And how have youfoundthe air of France;
Roland ? Here have I, a person SomS
years you! senior and every way disposed and
adaptedfor travel, stayed soberly at home; look­
ing after toy tenants, relieving their W
imtSj
keeping my house in order, an eye on my incom:
ings, and toy steed in the Stable, While you,
attached; too, to this part of the country M
many reasons, having friends more deeply in­
terested in you &nd your movements than is
altogether convenient, with a fortune to make,
domestic objects to gain, and a not particularly
well-furnished exchequer; you, I toy, have hot
only roved to the extremities of Our island
home, but crossed the Very sea, penetrated
into a foreign country, and fiied your quarters
in its ohiefest hold, the mddertf Babylon, a
Vanity Fair celebrated for its extravagances, a
quicksand whichinevitably sticks ih the finest
ATCHERLEY. 2 0 7
-ship that touches its edge with its cautious
keel. But I forget; youf pilot was one among
the few.”
“ And hia charge one among the many; eh,
Sir Reginald 7* said Atcherly.
“ Was the pilot dubious,” continued Sir Re­
ginald, with an enquiring smile, “ of his capa­
bilities, bad he under?allied the difficulties of
the voyage, or was he so solicitous over the
safety of that committed to him as to deter­
mine to run no risk, that wfl find him
turning his head again towards the shore, and
bringing his trust to a termination ere it had
well begun ?
“ Brother,” said Roland, “ yon have learnt,
since I left you, to deal in enigmas: have you
an intention of rivalling the spbynx ? Because
if youhave, be assured, atfar isI am concerned,
you will find no CEdipns."
“ You cannot answer, Holaad, for your
companion; Us acootaplrBhraeilts may extend
further than you imagine:”
208 ATCHBHLEY.
“ Atcherley haa had something better to do
than read oracles: your skill does not extend
far in that, does it, William ?” saidBoland.
“ Usually depending on my own eyesight,”
returned Atcherley, “ in such extraordinary
cases I borrow the spectacles of my neigh­
bours.”
“ I would, just now,” rejoined Sir Reginald,
good-humouredly, !tborrow the spectacles of
my neighbours if I were able: perhaps one
of you will not refuse the loan. To what are
the English shores indebted for so speedy a re­
visit ? Am I to charge you with caprice, Bo­
land? Had you seen enohgb of the Conti­
nent, and had all curiosity departed? I
have heard there is much to be seen beyond
the limits of the French metropolis, and I am
surprised you should so have forfeited your
character for enterprise.”
u New objects,” said Roland, “ sometimes
have as little to attract as old ones.”
“ I must turn to one less interested, I see,”
ATCHEHLEY. 2 0 9
said Sir Reginald. “ We did not expect the
pleasure of your return, Master Atcberley,
for some time. You did not even favour me
with a letter announcing your intention of
coming, of which I should have been glad. I
can offer you little in exchange for the salons
of Paris. An old house and an eccentric
household, an ancient cook who thinks quan­
tity better than quality, old wine of cloudy
character, a strong contrast to the flashing
liquids over the water, unpolished hospi­
tality, and a blunt, though I hope you will be­
lieve cordial welcome, I doubt me n o t disad­
vantageous^ contrasted with the flattering
humility of a Parisian reception, are all I can
boast. You w ill shortly be called upon to pass
judgment on my cheer; for our dinner hour
approaches, and I will not so cruelly compli­
ment you as to put it back to a later and more
fashionable hour. Roland, you must entertain
our guest w h ile I shift my present scarcely
pardonable attire. Master Atcherley, for a
• ATC H G B lilffi
‘short season, your excuse. Should ihy grounds
-offer any inducement, I beg you will not re­
main withindoors.”
Saying these words,BirReginaldTorrington
Retired. Ateherley shortly followed his example,
and bent his steps towards a door which led
into the park. He was followed by Boland,
who didnot feel disinclinedto etfjOythe beauty
of the day.
They spent, hbwever, but little time out df
doors. Retiring to their several apartments
they made a necessary change in their dress,
and fejoined Sir Reginald in the dining-
chamber.
As if in'contrast to his discouraging repre­
sentation of the character of his larder, the
dinner was Scrupulously good, and the wine of
an age and flavour which even to Ateherley was
remarkable.
The day passed quickly over. Conversation,
of which Sir Reginald was fond, succeeded
dinner; and other modes of passing time.
■■Atcmmmv. 211
«quaUy agreeable, whiled away the afternodn
and put of the evening. Bir Reginald had to
ride ovef to a neighbouring town on pressing
business connected with his estate, and With
many good-humoured apologies he left -Boland
and •Ub friend to.make their own amusement
in his absence. -He promised, however, to re­
turn as noon m practicable, and -heard With
seeming regret that their stay for the present
at Torrington Place was limited.
Sir Reginald rode away 5 and Roland and
Atcherley were left in that revery which some­
times succeeds the excitement of interesting
conversation. The apartment in which they
sat was the one in which they had first seen
Sir Reginald. Roland was patting a favourite
deer-hound, of whose good condition he had
heard on his return with much satisfaction.
Atcherley was loungingin a cushioned chair, bis
eyes fixed upon the elaborate roof; and he was
apparently in an idle mood specnlating upon
212 ATCHEBLEY.
its complexities. Tile sun was setting brightly,
and threw a few of its beams into the some­
what gloomy apartment. No sound was heard
except the rustling of the leaves as they were
at intervals agitated by the quiet breeze, and
the capricious movements of the dog as it now
and then sought an easier position.
“ This is a noble house anda fine estate, Ro­
land,” said Atcherley, still carelessly gazing at
the roof.
“ It is,” answered Roland, and Reginald
seems to think so.”
“ It is almost a pity he does not marry,”
said Atcherley. “ A bachelor looks an animal
that oughtmerely to be tolerated but certainly
not approved, in ahouse of such princely dimen­
sions.”
“ A man, certainly,”replied Roland, “ would
not have to plead the convenience of his family
as an excuse for removal.”
“ And it would not be so destitutue of cheer-
ATCSHEBLET* 2 1 3
ing voices bad not Sir Reginald made a blun­
der which unfortunately cannot be rectified in
his favour: he has no disinclination to the
nuptial state.”
“ You surprise me,” said Roland, raising his
eyes: “ you seem to be deeper in his secrets
than I am!”
“ And yet Sir Reginald is not particularly
confidential. I daresay he would look upon my
knowledge as contraband.”
“ You have not derived it from the foun­
tain head.
“Ihave,” saidAtcherley—“ in a way. From
what do you expect I should acquire it ? The
mirror can reflect, though the object it so
faithfully presents may have its baok to the
observer; the echomay betray the sound how­
ever distant and uncertain the latter may be.
Sir Reginald’s position is to be lamented; for
you stand in his way.”
“ II”exclaimed Roland, in new surprise.
“ Is such a thing impossible? Do not rela-
2 1 4 - ATCHMLETV
tkms -crowone.aootkae. conetimeBJn Ik®near*-
eai instanoesi"
“ Let-mecompare and regulate:what you
say,” said Roland, rising from his' half recant
tent position■
and ceasing ta bestow any atten­
tion-o* bisdog, “ for- sometimes .yon speakso,
darkly a seer himself could scarcely.make out;
year -meaning. You -said just now that.Re-
ginald had no.disinclination toi the-nuptial.1
state, and you add that I, in.soeae^parttoulat,
stand -in his way» la. the first.|place. let
me ask how you know what you first ad­
vanced ?”'
“ By- the-outline of- the shadow,” said
Atcberley - with- a half smile ; “ you -out
guess at the character, of the body which
causes it."
“ You bring a fog down npon me.again, to
make me lose my way. Do you mean,” con­
tinued Roland, the thought^mdddaly striking
him and causing a slight tremourin his voice ;
“ do you mean— that—Reginald is in tore
with Julia ?”
D
n
.;;:!
ATftgEjlfBY. 215
“ Did 1 say, so?” as^e*! Atch^rlay, with a
suyprjseJxLh$nuu}ner tfat puzzled RolapcL
“ You did npt; but your words only beer
this interpretation.”
“ You-oM
sau-thf,t;that is the.only interpret-
tafion you can.fix nponL
them. Sir Reginald,
hipiself might take.them differently, I said,
if you retnember. Sir Reginald’s position was
unfortunate^ apd that you stood:in his way
Eyen supposing that the caas is as you say,
and that Sir.jR^iaald Tarrington is in love
with JuliaRockingham; you wince,” continued
he with a furtive, smile, “ but if such were
the .case, that ..would be the true mode of put­
tin g it,;would it not? Respeptmg which sup­
posed love I would ask you if y o n ever.dis­
cerned any.symptom.’’
“ I never, did: oral le a s t _my attention was ■
never,called to the subject.”
“ Called to the subject 1
” rejoined Atcherley,
impatiently. “ Do you wait for your attention
316 ATCHEELSr.
to be called? You may wait long enough then
sometimes. 'A wise man will pierce the skies
which are above him, the air which is around
him, aye, and through the earth beneath him,
ere he even acknowledge his suspicions to him­
self! His is an Argus gaze that knows no
slumber; hisobject ishis heaven, and the means
by which he seeks its attainment his world.
But enough of this:—Even imagining, I again
say, that the case is as you have supposed, and
that the love exists of which we have spoken,
do you not conclude that Sir Reginald would
withdraw his pretensions in regret, lament his
unfortunate and mistaken passion, and gene*
rously refuse to stand between you and your
happiness?”
This was said in a very peculiar manner.
You were compelled to blame your own uncha-
ritableness, while you fancied yon could per­
ceive a mysterious irony in the inflections of the
speaker’s musicalvoice.
“ No 1 in such a case,” said Roland,
ATCttERLEY. 21?
bluntly; “ 1 don’t know what would be his
conduct.”
“ Would it not be a noble piece of self-denial
and magnanimity ?”
“ It would; but one which in his situation I
should scarcely be inclined to perform.”
“ And yet every one is anxious to lay claim
to the character which you now repudiate,”
said Atcherley. “ How long have you learned
to acknowledge the greatness and goodness of
an act, and yet shrink from its execntion?
Do you admit that you are below the capa­
bilities of human nature, and yet allow that
such is the conduct that has been chalked out
I
for our pursuing ? Would tasks of this severe
nature have been set us, unless it had been
foreseen that we were able to go through with
them ? If you reluctantly allow that onr na­
ture is incompetent to such exalted acts of self-
mortiBcation, you call that wisdom in question
which demands their fulfilment. And yet it
is a part of your creed that nothing is to be
asked at our hands which we are nnable to do.”
YOU II. L
ATCHSRMnr.
“ Soma nature* may be capable of A il
which I should find impossible. There.art va­
rieties of endurance, aa well w of tie circaa-
Btancea which regulate and modify their limits.
Weareeachacteduponbya different machinery,
and Bee that which is submitted to os in a
different light.”
“ And yet there is bvt one Bystem presented
for our government. While we admit the in­
applicability of that by which we are rnled to
another and perhaps a lees forward state of ex­
istence, we are debarred from admitting any
other. We are like builder# who subscribe
but one plan, but one mode of building, and
but one set of materials, while we are com­
pelled to perceive that no two soils are alike,
that the weight one foundationwouldbearwould
sink into ruin in another, that our architecture
consistent in this place, would be ridiculous
in a second, and dangerous in a third, andthat
the materials that are applicable in the climate
in which they are procured, would in another.
CHHHLEY. 219
involve the anehiteet la perplex: , end idgh
Ui cdeoktiont to sought We eanoot «§eape
the soiTexMl adaptation which runs through
nature, and the moment you generalise you re*
verse the machinery. The view is obvious:—
'do we look to one machine for a general pro­
duction ? Do we not apply different principles
to different objects? and do we not first esti­
mate the character of our subject before we
seek Its subjection to our purposes?”
“ But nature,” said Roland, uis governed by
one grand system; and the essence of that
system is harmony”
“ One principle is kept in view,” answered
Atcherley, “ through a thousand changes,
and that principle is vital succession and anni­
hilation. Life pervades the universe, and the
moment anything ceases to be,it ernes to have
a share in its essential spirit. Death is non­
entity or non-existence; and non-existence is
incompatible with the productive principle.
There is properly no death.
i, 3
ATCHEBLEY.
“ An alteration in the current of our con­
versation,” continued Atcberley, rising, “ is
approaching in the person of Sir Reginald.. I
hear his horse’s hoofs on the stones at the en­
trance.”
ATCHERLEY. 221
CHAPTER VIL
“ Friar Lawrence.—What torch la yond’, that
vainlylends hia light
To grate and eyelessskulls1 as I discern.
It buraeth in the Capel's monument.”
Romeoand Juliet. Act 5. Scene3.
"Horatio.—What, has this thing appeared again
to nightI
Bernardo.—I haveseen nothing.
MarceUut.—Horatio says ’tie bat our phantasy ;
And will notlet belief take holdof him,
Touching this dreaded sight, twiceseemof m
Horatio.—Well, sit we down,
And let us hear Bernardospeak of this.
Bernardo.—Last night of all,
When yon same star, that’s westward from the
pole,
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Where nowit burn%Marcellus and myself.
The bell then beating one—”
Hamlet. Act 1. Scene 1.
A t c h e r l e y was correct in his announcement.
Sir Reginald's riding boots were heard dank-
ATCHBBUY.
ing along the vestibule, and he shortly after
entered the apartment.
The eloak in which he had performed bis
journey was now thrown off, but his riding
whip was still in his hand. The exercise had
given him colour, and he seemed to have lost
something of his habitually guarded manner.
He threw himself on a sofa, took off his
beaver, and entered immediately into the
conversation that was excited by his appear*
aaee. Atcberley and Roland were recipro­
cating observations on the speed with which
he must have traversed the ground he had to
measure.
Sir Reginald’s commendations of bis steed
were justified bj the animal’s performance.
Conversation gradually shifted from hones to
other subjects, and it was not until a rather
late hour that supper was announced. In a
lull of the conversation the little party had sat
down to cards; and it was in the pauses of the
game that the various matters they discussed
ATCHBRLET. 223
were suceeseively brought on the tapis. Ia
one of the longest of these interregnums or ia-
tcrregna Sir Reginald mentioned an incident in
his night’s journey which had somewhat excited
law nrprise.
•You know, Roland,” said he, “ the old
building called in the neighbourhood ‘ the
Monastery.’”
" 1 do," saidRoland: “ bat you can scarcely
call it ia the neighbourhood, sine it is eight
miles off.”
“ Tot 1 nothing to a good horse: he would
soonmake it in the neighbourhood. You know
the belt of wood that winds round the base of
the eminence on which it stands. Where it
emerges into the valley yon can see the whole
of the ruins, as well as the particular tower
which has been for so long a time the object
of the irregular attention of the people about
here.”
“ Yes, time has robbed it partially of its in-
224 ATCHKHLBY.
terest. I know the spot perfectly: but what
of this?”
“ You may not have heard, Master Atcher-
ley, the circumstances which have given an
interest to the place. This building is very
ancient—no records existing, I believe, respect­
ing its foundation: little is also known con­
cerning its history. Totally in rain, it is of
course only inhabited by the bat or.owl, and
its crumbling walls seem to threaten a speedy
and, when it does come, an unexpected disso­
lution. There are a few roofless apartments
still remaining,but they are choked up with
ivy and rubbish; and its few approaches are
scarcely practicable. It stands in the midst of
an irregular tract of woodland, broken into
intervals of rock, and lies two or three miles
out of even the roughest track. For years
the superstitious peasantry have declared that
at particular seasons lights, at the hour of
midnight, have been seen to flit in its broken
I
ATCHERLET. 225
windows. ^ This fancy, coupled with the per­
suasion that the place must be consequently
haunted, has gained so great a ground in the
neighbourhood, that no person after nightfall,
I believe, could be indiiced to cross that part
of the wood in which it lies. I have paid the
matter but little attention, and from the first
totally disbelieved not only the many stories
which as usual have been set afloat, with the
exaggerations .common in such cases, in the
neighbourhood, but that lights had been or
were at any period to be discovered about it.
Looking impartially at the case, I could not
account in any ordinary way for the presence
of light in or about the vicinity of the build­
ing, although I took into consideration whether
such a thing might not be caused by smugglers,
gipsies, or robbers; which, if the assertion was
at all to be admitted, was by far the most fea­
sible supposition. Smugglers we have none:
the country is too remote from the sea for
them here to be heard of. Gipsies would
h 5
ATCHKRLET.
#
sooner make use of a less repulsive and Incoa-
veaieit place; and aa to robbers, they muii
be impolitic and audacious indeed to betray
their presence by any suchmeans.”
“ Tim most probable supposition ” said
Boland, “ is that no such things have been
seen.”
“ That was my opinion, but is sack no
longer,” returned Sir Reginald. “ You may
guess my surprise when having mastered so
difficult a part of my journey as the ground
between this and the Monastery, emerging
from the corner of the wood, which there
gradually descends, I saw, in the first glance
1 gave at the ruin, the faint though steady
glimmering of a light 1 had disbelieved the
assertion t» M o , as I said before, but was now
convinced of my mistake. It had a singular
and mysterious effect,this light,breaking onthe
general obscurity and to be seen in a building
of*so desolate and ruinous a character. Conjec­
tures respecting it occupied my mini for the re-
N
ATCHKBLBT. 227
mainder of my journey; and it waa with
somewhat anxious eyes that I looked out for
its appearance on nay return. But I wm dis­
appointed. The place had its usual dark and
melancholy appearance, and no trac% of any
thing remarkable was to be discovered above
it,”
“ The case is somewhat singular,” said At-
cherley, who had listened with interest to the
detail. “ But, Sir Reginald, the game stays.”
“ I crave your pardon,” said Sir Reginald,
playing. “ Would you aot advise me to in­
stitute some enquiries respecting the business,
and ascertain, if possible* who these midnight
viaitantB aw ?”
“ 1 think I would were 1 in your place,”
returned Atcherley, drily, “ were even your
search to prove unsuccessful: a supposition
which may be hazarded.”
The conversation was kept op, with some
few interruptions respecting what Sir Reginald
had seen, until it was time to retire. As the
ATCHBBLBY.
clock of the house was striking the first hour
of morning, the three gentlemen betook them­
selves to their beds.
Several days went, came, and were spent in
much thf same manner. The different persons
with whom Roland was instmcted by Oliver
Rockingham to have interviews before his
future fatber-io-law should follow, introduce
him to the leaders of the confederacy already
formed, and take an active part in the business
which he had for some time remotely and se­
cretly been engaged in forwarding, were not
expected to betake themselves to the grand
scene of consultation until a few days had
passed over. The rendezvous was already ap­
pointed for a certain day ; and Roland was to
be in London some time previous.
Atcberley had engaged to accompany his
friend, see that all leading matters were put
in a proper train, and act as a sort of unsus­
pected guarantee for his good faith and obedi­
ence.
ATCHBBLEY. 229
It would be difficult to define the state of
feeling with which Boland looked forward
to his part of the coming struggle. He had
been satisfied with the assurance that no harm
was either contemplated towards the King or
safety of his throne: but there was a twinge
or two of conscience mixed up with that satis­
faction, which somewhat reproached him for
conspiring against the prerogative of a person
from whom he had received favours, and dis­
turbing the repose of a greatly provoked but
yet enduring and at present' quiet nation*
Though Boland’s views were highly patriotic
in their tendency, almost amounting to repub­
licanism, and though he felt the greatest in­
dignation at the despotic proceedings of the
government, he could not as easily as others
enter upon projects which might eventually
compromise life and property. The enter-
pise in which he had perhaps too eagerly
involved himself, might, n >ydoubtless would,
end in blood; and the full re-establishment of
230 ATCUEBLET.
liberty would sot have been the leas dear to
him if it could be brought about without
violence. But Boland had private considera­
tions of an extraordinary character to impel
him forward. Julia bad merged all objects
which might have influenced him in herself.
When he thought of her all his doubts and
misgivings fled from him, and he wondered
how he could ever for a moment entertain
them.
Eagerly had he subscribed the pledgee re­
quired of him by Oliver Bockingbam, when
in the course of their private conversation the
latter declared his compliance was the only
means by which he could obtain the hand of
her be sought. In the firet flush of his plea­
sure he had wondered at the easiness of his
bargain, and with a thoughtlessness natural to
his situation felt'even grateful to Bockingham
for making the terms so light. The few doubts
that would now cross his mind were an after
growth which in the first fervour of delight
ATCHEKLEY. 231
wonld have been too watery to take root, but
in the more temperate pleasure which followed,
that
"Sober certainty of waking bliss”
which pictures our coming happiness without
exaggeration, found a situation in which to
spring up. But all cold influences were swept
away from his mind when Julia’s image pre­
sented itself; and the resolution which fol­
lowed was perhaps the stronger for its tempo­
rary suspension. He burned with impatience
to shine in her eyes, and listen to the playful
raillery with which he knew she would dwell
upon his achievements and laugh at them.
The anticipation of that raillery was sweeter
to him than the most open praise; and he
would not have changed his “ heart's idol,”
with all her provoking archness, carelessness
and irony, for the most Bingle-minded, devoted
and unaffected maiden in Europe.
232 ATCHERLET.
CHAPTER VIII.
“ Brutus. Do you know them!
Lucius. No, sir; their hats are pluck’d about their
ears,
And half their faces buried in their cloaks,
That by no means I may discover them
By any mark of favour.
Brutus.— Let them enter.
They are the faction. O, conspiracy I
Sham’st thou to show thy dangerous brow by night.
W hen evils are most free 1 0 , then, by day
Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough
To mask thy monstrous visage I Seek none, con*
spiracy.
Hide in it smiles and aflability:
For if thou path, thy native semblanoe on,
Not Erebus itself were dim enough
To hide thee from prevention.”
Julius Ccesar. Act 2. Scene 1
Our reader’s attention must now, if he pleases,
be shifted to another though not a remote
locality. The connection of the following
ATCHEBLET. 233
scene with the incidents which have gone
before, unaccording as the former may at first
sight appear with it, will become gradually
apparent. Circumstances will be presented
in our new locale greatly though perhaps not
immediately influencing the events of this
history; and like the apparently incongruous
succession of scenes in a theatre, some time
most elapse, some occurrences take place,
and some characters be allowed to speak,
before the end of the act in progress can be
made out.
The scene is a wild and tangled wood,
gloomy in its character and extensive in its
dimensions. A rough cart track, by means
of which woodcutters may have been able to
convey their loads, too rough for the passage
of any vehicle less coarse and inartificial than
a lumbering cart, and in so very bad a state
thatthe most cautions steed coaid scarcely gain
a firm footing, wound deviously through the
damp* of trees, and made such sudden turns
ATCHiBLBT.
that it was evident the road had been made
subservient to the obstacles it encountered,
ratherthan that the obstacles had been removed
to make way for the road. Masses of leaves
fringed it on either side, and threw a melan­
choly shade over the passage. In some
places,where the breaking away of the thickets
did not arbitrarily confine the view to the
foreground, glimpses of the more distant
woodland could be obtained, rich in all the
varieties of oolour and shadow, and full of
those inequalities which give so gnat a charm
to scenery of that character. The light was
■Iso advantageous for the display of its gran­
deur. Though the moon—a summer moon
whose light was undunmefl by vapour—was
not high. It shed sufficient light to reveal the
character of the neighbouring objects^ and
threw over the remoter landscape that soft
and placid blue which blends all objects in its
own rich illumination.
m sound was to be heard in this beautiful
ATCHEBLEY. 2 3 5
solitude except the faint sweep of the mur-
muriog breeze as it drowsily agitated the
leaves, and the successive tramp, tramp of ap­
proaching hoots. The last sounds were caused
by the approach of a black steed, whose (to
judge from his movements and the way in
which he sat the animal) graoeful rider was
enveloped in the folds of a dark and voluminous
mantle. His beaver was drawn over bis
eyes, and he wore a mask. Greater part of
his horse’s body was also covered with his
mantle; whioh was so carefully drawn round
him that concealment would have seemed to
be the object of the wearer. Emerging from
some of the most close and difficult part of the
ground, the horseman increased his pace and
seemed anxious to get clear of the wood;—
at least a little free of those thick portions of
it which obstructed his advance. He seemed
successful in his wish, for the wood-tract now
appeared partially to open.
A few minutes’ farther ride brobght him to
236 ATCHEKLRT.
a descent, and to that corner ofthe wood which
had been noticed by Sir Reginald in his de­
scription of his night’s adventure, aad which
commanded a full view of the old monastic
ruin. The moonlight now was less inter­
rupted, and displayed the features of the
scene with a distinctness which perhaps was
not altogether agreeable to the horseman. At
all events his first impulse was to peer suspici­
ously around, and then to fix his gaze upon
the building before him.
It was in truth a noble scene ; and its per­
fect solitude invested it with an interest ap­
proaching even to awe.
The traveller was for a moment stationary
on the crown of the eminence, overlooking
the woody gronnd as it irregularly descended
Into a small valley filled with fragments of
black rock and darkened with many shadows.
The eye had much difficulty in segregating
the constituent portions of this gloomy hollow,
and sought a relief in dwelling npon the fan-
ATCHE&LEY. 237
tastic points of shaggy rock that towered out
of the foliage and were shewn in the dear
light of the slow-sailing moon.
On either side the ground deliberately
sloped with uniformly picturesque but some­
times impracticable perpendicularity: the
grass, in the few places that it could be dis­
covered, owing to the thickness of the brush­
wood and the tprtuou* complexities of the
numberless roots that chequered its surface,
was rich and verdant; and the often occurring
fractures of the upper ground, broken into
the most rough and fantastic outlines, formed
“ coigns of vantage” whereon many varieties
of creeping plants could hang their tendrils
and luxuriantly spread. In the parts most
elevated, where the effect was not prevented
by overarohing foliage or the more parallel
intervention of shrubs and wide-extending
bushes, the silver trunks of tbe tougher and
more ancient trees were seen to reflect the
spirit-like glimmer of' the moonlight. Two
or three bold and gigantic rocka would pint
their heavy shape* upon the deep bine sky,
and throw, with a sullen grandeur which added
much to the solemnity of the aeene, their huge
black shadows over the lower grounds. The
background of this landscape was a broad
and irregularly outlined tract of woodland,
forming a strong contrast to the transparency
of the sky, and seeming arbitrarily to shut in
every sign of a country lees uncultured and
solitary.
The ancient building which formed so pro­
minent a feature in the view, was apparently
erected upon an assemblage of rocks, tumbled
together in confusion, and crowned with massy
and in some places pendant foliage. To the
left, the ground on which it had been erected
was exceedingly precipitous; but on the other
side it was moderate in its descent, and sur­
mountable without any difficulty except from
that presented by the underwood. The ruins
—covered with lichens, and a thick ivy that
AXCHEHIXT. 939
notoonteoi with scalingthe side of the building
by means of dilapidated buttress or mossy
cornice, twined its dark and clustering leaves
into the broken windows and luxuriated upon
their half-shattered and oorroded tracery—the
rains were oblong in their form, and contained
within their area a desolate court-yard, in
which weeds had grown to a height unusual
even in such abandoned situations, and around
which the ruined, high-pointed arches,
wreathed and festooned with a profusion of
creepers, had fallen stone by stone, till the
fragments of rotting, mossy and roughly
chiselled masonry had risen into heaps. The
mouldering column-shaft was here garlanded
with the freshest production of nature; the
enriched window-head, which had formerly
admitted the bright light, was now blocked up
by an increasing vegetation; the aisles, which
in their lonely grandeur still bore witness to
the ancient glories of the edifice, instead of
as in the past time echoing the voice of prayer
ATCHEBLEV.
or thanksgiving, answered only to the moody
hooting of the owl, or the midnight bay
of the grim prowling wolf, who trod over
lettered atones and looked through framdeas
windows; and the shadowy cloisters, which
had only sullenly returned the cautions tread
of the bare-footed religions as he dimly flitted
along them, now lay in voiceless and slowly
falling desolation. A few years longer and
the last melancholy remains of the building
would crumble to the earth over the graves
of those whom it had so long and yet so
ineffectually held over.
A tall and mouldering tower, somewhat
lew covered with ivy than other parts of the
building, rose high and dark against the illu­
minated sky, and stood out in the boldest
relief from all the objects in its vicinity, con­
trasted with the brilliancy of the moon wbioh
was fast nearing its meridian. Through a
small window, almost a loophole in its rise
and lying open to the attacks of the elements.
ATCHEHLEY. 241
a sight, clear in consequence of a breach in
the wall on the opposite aide, could be ob­
tained of the silver clouds and the bright and
placid azure. Stars were glittering brilliantly
above, though some singularly shaped clouds
were trooping slowly over the “ rich profun­
dity” of the sky, and causing the moonbeams
to glide at intervals.over the landscape. But
the moon would booh regain its power, and
stream over the whole scene the crowning
grace of its clear radiance. The view, in a
few words, was one upon which a poet would
have been delighted to dwell, and that an
artist would have longed to picture.
The horseman, who had paused a moment
contemplating the beauties of the scene, dis­
mounted from his steed and led the animal
cautiously down the declivity. On reaching
its base, instead of proceeding in a direct line,
which would have involved many difficulties,
he turned offto the right, and, winding through
the patches of copsewood, arrived at the sum-
VOL. IL M
ATCIIK1LET.
a it of the eminence on which the Monastery
stood. This conduct implied an acquaintance
with the ground; for it was the very best path
he could have selected to reach the apparent
object of his journey. He was now in alim
a
with the building, which towered proudly on
his side, and presented, on a nearer approach,
a still greater aspect of ruin and melancholy
than at a distance. Advancing a little farther,
and by a track' which though somewhat over­
grown afforded a plain and not particularly
inconvenient means of reaching the ruins he
fastened his hone to a tree and carefully pro­
ceeded. A cloud now came over the moon
and obliged him to stop and took deliberately
about him. Apparently the m ult of his ex­
amination was decisive, for he quickened bis
pace, and, emerging from the trees, found him­
self in a somewhat open spaoe, bounded
behind by the wood, and before by the
crumbling walls of the sacred structure.
A few steps forward brought ham into the
ATCSEELEY 243
court-yard already mentioned, and here the
shadows from the ivied building were so dark
and numerous, that after stumbling in his
hasty advance two or three times over frag­
ments of the ruin, he threw apart his heavy
cloak rad produced a lantern. Its dim yellow
light threw a sickly gleam over the old grey
stones, penetrating however a sufficient way
through the darkness to point out the obstacles
that lay directly in his path. By these means
he reached a ruinous doorway in the upper
end of the court, and advanced up the passage
to which it led with increased confidence.
Coming out of the open air the light of his
lantern seemed to have aoquired a double
brilliancy, and displayed the neighbouring ob­
jects with very satisfactory distinctness.
Having arrived at the end of this passage,
the stranger reached an avenue—broad in com­
parison with the narrowness of the former
one—which by a broken door of singular con­
struction led directly into tha chapel. This
h 3
chapel with its dim desolate features—
Its
open windows and its damp and mouldering
columns, presented many points of interest;
bnt the stranger passed all these unheeded,
only pausing now and then, and looking bade
with a quick, suspicious glance as his footsteps
seemed to double with the hollow echoes. An
iron gate, red with rust, was thrown open with
some difficulty, and at a few feet beyond, a
stone staircase, dark as Erebus, presented its
successive steps. With a sudden effort the
gate was dosed, and the stranger, who had
put his light on the ground for the purpose,
at once descended.
The staircase wound deeply down, and ter­
minated in a circular kind of chamber, green
with subterranean damps, and paved with
illegibly charactered flagstones. An avenue
to the left conducted to the vaults, wherein
the dignitaries and brethren of the Monastery,
as death had claimed its own, had bean suc­
cessively deposited The grim forms of some
ATCHEHIJ5Y. 245
falling monuments could in the distance be
distinguished; but the gloom of the place vas
great, and the glance which the stranger
gave in that direction but momentary. A pas­
sage to the right, the end of which could not
be discerned in the obscurity, led to the
Crypt.
The stranger might justly have been ex­
pected to display some marked symptom of
discomposure when as his footsteps rang
along the heavy wall and died away in long-
protracted echoes among the branching passages
and hollow chambers, the gleam of a light
was momentarily to be seen shooting athwart
the gloom In the distance: but he seemed to
pay little or no attention to what migh$ have
been considered so extraordinary an appear­
ance, mud kept on his way without pausing.
On first observing the light be did indeed
advanoe the lantern be carried in his hand as
if to render his approach still more obvious;
but it was not difficult to perceive his object
246 ATCHEBLKT.
in bo doing wits solely to announce himself by
giving .some sort of signal. He had apparently
satisfied the person who seemed to await
hiss, of U s charades, for the light was now
fully displayed.
On a nearer apfwmh, a muslcel figure was
discoverable in a nook of the wall. His vest­
ments wen ooncealad in a mantle of similar
volume to that of the stranger. A cap was
upon his head,and a drawn sward in his baad.
The traveller paused on receiving the chal­
lenge of this vigilant sentinel. It was in a
foreign language, and the msewerthat was in-
immediately given seemed satisfactory.
“ I have to claim the second term of ad­
mission,” said the watcher, in tones which
though lowwere singularly distinct.
“ You shall have it,” was the reply.
Loosening the hand that was disengaged
from the heavy .folds of his mantle, the
stranger quickly raised hia cap, removed his
mask, and displayed the features of one with
ATCHEKLBT. 247
whom the tender is already acquainted. They
were those of Atcberley.
Tbe hand of tbe sentinel was immediately
raised to his bonnet in acquiescence, and At­
cberley, without any further words, passed him
sad advanced to the end of the passage.
He stepped a moment to more firmly replace
bis mask and adjust his heaves before he de-
oianded admittance at the large Gothic door
to which the passage led. This was done by
a knock thrice repeated, and the door was
slowly and heavily unclosed.
The apurtaaent into which Atcherley was
admitted, as well as well as extensive was
of very lofty dimensions. It communicated
directly, through a pair of magnificent
iron gates, with the ancient Crypt that
ran under tbe ChapeL These gates, now half
falling not only from their hinges but from the
stone-work in which the latter had been fixed,
were massy in construction, though their
strength was now hopelessly unpaired by the
nut of ages, and were approached by five
broad steps of a dark marble. The walla were
formed of heavy masonry, out of the joints of
which the iron damps had nearly worked. On
oneside wasa richly pierced Gothic screen, die
tracery of which was a masterpiece of art,
though the hue of the onceeven coloured stone
was darkened,and its luxuriant details were in
some places mutilated and in others deeply
time-worn. Through the mullions and their
intermedinte decorative ramifications, glimpses
could be obtained of the space on the other
side, which had been specially appropriated as
the burial place of the Abbots of the Monas­
tery, and was filled with stately table or altar
monuments,the melancholy and funereal pomp
of which was heightened by the image of each
dignitary to the memory of whom they were
raised, and which was lying at full length on
the slab. The roof of the apartment waa
arched, and embellishedwith ponderous groins,
ribs and knots of foliage. A row of maa^y
ATCBBBLET. 249
columns drew out on either side, blackened by
age, and lowering in sullen magnificence on
the other proportions of the subterranean
hall. The fioor was profusely lettered;
and inscriptions, nearly illegible, on wall
and pillar, met the eye in whatever place
it happened to rest. A few dark and
waving rags, which might once have been
richly emblazoned flags and banners, shook
with a slow and sepulchral magnificence as
the cold air found entrance, and they added
to but ennobled the charnel horrors of the
place.
Hanged around a ponderous table of chesnut
covered with a pall of black velvet, was an as­
semblage of tall and silent figures, who
might have been taken for statues, their faces
concealed by similar masks to those of the
stranger and the sentinel, and their per­
sons studiously concealed by flowing dra­
peries. Bonnets were on their heads, orna­
mented with sable plumes, and their anus
M 5
Aircx£BMnr.
were folded in their cloaks. On m elevated
sent was an individual of taller and burger
proportions than the rest of the conclave, but
having not the smallest difference in his attire.
His face, like those of the others, was hidden
by a mask, and nothing was to be seen of its
character except what might have been gath-
ered from the piercing gleam which every now
and then shot from his bright and rolling eyes.
A mysterious silence reigned throughout the
tutseniblage; they did not even seem to
breathe; and nothing broke the complete and
even painful stillness, but the long sigh of the
wind as it swept through the ruinous aisles of
the neighbouring Crypt and gibbered through
its shivering and frameless windows. A couple
of flickering torches, in stands of iron, diffused
an unequal and lugubrious light through the
apartment.
The whole expression of the place was dis­
mal and forbidding to a degree. It was to­
tally impossible to dissociate its blending con­
stituents; and the eye coaid barely do more
atchbblby. 251
than Nat upon th» all-pervading gloom and
cloud-like soleni- of the whole. The red,
imperfect end dusky gjaro of the waving
torehee wee quite insufficient to do more than
somewhat qualify the shadows that hung
around, and tried in vein to penetrate beyond
the narrow circle to which the jealous and
seldom disturbed darkness confined it The
blue cold moonlight, streaming partially
through “ the rents of ruin,” and mixing its
sepulchral and deceptive glimmer with the
silkly illumination thrown fitfully out by the
torches, drowned every object iu the nearer
distance in its own ghastly twilight, and in­
vested what it did reveal with a mystery that
fascinated while it awed the beholder. The
place wasindeed one dedicated
“ Tograves, to worms, and epitaphs ”
the temple of one mightier than the mightiest
of the earth; the glass- of Death wherein its
loathsome features could be thoroughly con-
ATCHBKLEf.
templated; and a living record of the vanity of
the things of this world, the otter emptiness
of pride, and the nothingness of existence.
The oniinousgloom ofthese subterraneanballs
broken upon only by a few gleams of moon­
shine and by torchlight, the perfect silence
of the mysterious conclave assembled there,
the lonely wail of the midnight wind, and the
supremely desolate character of the ancient
building beneath whose runs this singular
meeting was held, were calculated to strike an
awe equalled only by wonder at the object of
the convocation, and the characters, to judge
from their appearance, of its scarcely human
members.
It would have been difficult to surmise the
objects of this strange convocation, assembled
so suspiciously beneath the ruins of an aban­
doned building similar to this. Atcherley’s
connection wtth the band seemed still more
extraordinary. But an explanation may be
found in the transactions of the period. It
ATCHE1 253
was die age of Secret Societies—of associations
united together for good and evil purposes.
To what class this might be ascribed, was
doubtful. Societies were not unknown whose
laws were of the most flagitious character, and
where the presentation of a name obnoxious
to an individual member was sufficient to put
in motion the means of destruction of innu­
merable secret agents against him. As yet
England had been sacred from such dark
leagues. Germany was the head-quarters of
these baleful fraternities, and the taint was
spreading fast. Whether political or private
malignity dictated the presentation of the par­
ticular name which was this night given in by
Atcherley, certain it is that the society of
which this meeting was a section was of that
deadly order, and perhaps the most powerful
ever known.
254 ATCHEELLY.
CHAPTER IX.
"--------------m hold thee any wager,
When we are both accoutred lijte young men,
I’ll prove the prettier fellow of the two,
And wear m y dagger with the braver grace.
I have within my mind
A thousand raw tricks of these bragging jacks,
Which I will practise.”
Merchant of Venice, Act iii. Scene 4.
“ I will speak to him like a saucy lacquey, and
under that habit play the knave with him.”
A t you Like It. Act iii. Scene 2.
H av in g spent several days in the retirement
of Torrington Place, the time arrived when
Roland and Atcherley, as expected, would be-
ATCRERLBY. 2 5 5
take themselves to more bustling scenes, and
exchange the idleness in which they bad in­
dulged since their return from the continent
for the occupations which were more congenial
to their natures.
The morning on which they were to begin
their journey to the metropolis was favourable;
and though it was with some apparent chagrin
that Sir Reginald had been acquainted with
the termination oi their stay at his house, his
farewell to both was oordial enough. There
was an inward uneasiness however in him, and
an occasional clouding of the brow, though
instantly cleared away, that was inexplicable
to R oland, who was not by any means so tho­
roughly aware as Atcherley of his brother’s
state o f mind. H e bad heard indeed with
some alarm, the cautious intimation which A t­
cherley had given that Roland interfered in
some respect with his brother’s view s; and
knowing that it could not possibly be in any
other particular than that of his love for Julia
ATCHERLEY.
Rockingham
, he had eagerly endeavoured to
extract from M
i friend a confirm
ationorre­
m
ovalofhis fears. Aided b j hisnatural wish
tokeep theform
erintheback-ground, heh
a
d
given credit to the weli-feigned surprise of
Atcherley at the suspicion he expressed, an
d
fancied he m
ust have m
istaken his friend’s
m
eaning. Besides Atcherley always, or at
least generally, spoke so circuitously, an
d
invested even trifling matters w
itham
ystery
that served toam
use the speculations of h
is
hearer, that Bolanddidnot payhis com
m
uni­
cation the attention a direct avow
al w
ould
have received, and set itdown as one of the
sinisterandexaggerated suppositions inw
h
ich
his friend so frequently indulged. H
e h
a
d
,
too, a reliance on his own penetration, a
n
d
wassatisfiedwithknowingthat nopart ofh
is
brother’sbehaviourw
arrantedhim in sup
pos­
inghe looked with anyother than the com
­
m
onestregarduponhisneighbour’sdaughter.
Little or nothing had been said, after th
e
ATCHERLEY. 257
conversationw
hich took place the first night
of theirarrival, respecting SirReginald’s ad­
ventureor the intention he expressed of en­
quiringrespectingthe light he haddiscovered
inthe ruin. Atcherley well knew from the
first that there w
as no chance of discovering
the true character of the light, or detecting
anyof them
em
bers of them
idnight m
eeting.
C
oncerning his ow
nparticipationin thelatter
hewasperfectlyat ease, andw
ould havebeen
ready, had it been proposed, to have tho­
roughly canvassed everything relating to a
circum
stance so m
ysterious, and to have ex­
plored the ruins in a search w
hich he knew
w
ouldbefruitless.
Atcherley and R
oland departed early from
Sir Reginald’s house, and w
ere soon som
e
m
iles upon their road. They rode w
ith one
attendantforthe sake of convenience, though
had it been necessaryor advisable for safety,
theyw
ould haveset out bythem
selves. But
theyknewwellenoughw
hen to dispensewith
D
,,in
«
aI Google
atcbbblkt.
the attendanoe, and intended on their reach­
ing the metropolis to send the man back into
Derbyshire, Their future movements needed
ao witness but such m might be chosen; how­
ever Atcherley, on whom these matters rested,
hind made no objection to attendance in the
present instance.
After a hard day’s journey they arrived,
just about nightfall, at a place called Kibworth
in Leicestershire, where they resolved to put
up. The friends, as well as their horses, stood
in need of refreshment, as they bad made but
the barely necessary pauses daring the day.
Here, just as they entered the village, a neat
inn presented itself, recommending its hospi­
talities by an air of snugness and cleanliness
that was particularly agreeable to the travel-
*
lers. The hones were led to the stables, and
the friends entertained with the best which
the house afforded,
A good supper was soon on the table, after
partaking of which and a flaggon of tolerable
ATCHEHLEY. 259
wine, as the fatigues of the ensuing day de­
manded repose, they betook themselves to
their bedrooms, and gave orders to have their
steeds in readiness at an early hour in the
morning.
Recent fatigue, conspiring with the good­
ness of their accommodation, prolonged their
slumbers the following morning, so that they
had nearly slipped the hour at which they in­
tended to set forward. However before eight
o’dock, after a somewhat hasty breakfast, they
took their departure from the little inn, and
being able, from the coolness of the day, to
put their horses into a rapid as well as steady
pace, by noon had made considerable progress.
They intended to stop at Dunstable for the
night, and then prosecute their journey in the
morning if possible to the metropolis.
The travellers had proceeded to about a
couple of miles beyond Northampton, and
were advancing into the rich country which
surrounds that town, when a dust which had
260 ATCBEBLEY,
gradually been driving along the road behind
them partly intermitted, and displayed two
horsemen cantering along at a pace whch soon
promised to bring them up to Roland and his
friend.
As they swept past them the characteristics
of these horsemen were distinguishable, and
it became apparent that the last person was
an attendant of the one who had principally
engaged the attention of both Atcherley and
Roland. This traveller was mounted on a
fleet hone whose shape and movements dis­
played high Hood, and whose chafing at the
momentary check his rider gave him as he
passed the friends—probably for the purpose
of a more than passing observation—was suffi­
cient to draw and justify the particular no­
tice which was given both to himself and lit
rider.
Little of the gentleman’sdress could be seen,
fot he wore a large cloak and had his beaver
drawn low before his eyes. The hat of the
ATCHKHLET. 261
servant was also studiedly disposed, so as—as
Atcherley and his friend immediately ima­
gined—to elude observation.
Chafing at the sudden check which he had
received, the stranger’s horse seemed disposed
to he restive. He made several graceful but
impatient curvets, and snorted forth his rising
anger. Several hasty and, as our tiavellers
fancied, passionate pricks of the spur however
sent him forward, and the attendant seemed in
as equal a hurry to continue their journey as
his master. Just as the stranger had suc­
ceeded in forcing his horse forward, Atcherley
put his hand to his hat and deliberately raised
it with a singular though polite smile, ejacu­
lating at the same time, “ Good day to you,
sir; your, haste, I see, prevents our joining
company, which might otherwise have been
agreeable, at least on our part.”
The stranger made no other reply than a
silent bend of the head and graceful wave of
his hand. Spurring his horse into a canter, he
a t c h s b l b t .
was soon out of hearing, followed closely by
Us attendant.
“ Don’t It strike yon,” said Atoherley, “ that
he bears a great resemblance to Sir Reginald ?
In his features I mean, for his complexion is of
a much deeper colour.”
“ There, is certainly something about him,”
returned Roland,” that puts one in mind of
Reginald: but did you not observe he wore
not only thick and dark moustacUoe but whis­
kers of a large size? Besides his hair is
darker than Reginald’s, and the expression of
his countenance materially different Some­
thing carries him quickly forward, for you see
he declined a closer acquaintance.”
“ These are auspicious times,” rejoined At-
chorley, “ and make men distrustful of new
faces. He did not however favour ua with a
word in answer to my ‘good day.’”
“ A somewhat singular character, I should
imagine,” ejaculated Roland; and after a slight
pause the conversation took another turn.
ATCHERLBY. m
The day passed over without any particular
incident, and about dark our travellers entered
the old town of Dunstable. Here they in­
tended to remain the night, hoping that the
following evening would find them in London.
Their day’sjourney had been considerable! and
they were leisurely advancing up the principal
street, keeping up an anxious look out for an
inn of comfortable appearance. When about
half way through the town, which, the occu­
pations of the day being over, seemed full of
gossips and loiterers conversing at the corners
of the streets or gathered around the doors of
their bouses, a large rigs, depending from a
hewn painted white and banging half over the
road, seemed hospitably to invite them to turn
aside towards the building the character of
which it so ostentatiously announced. At the
door, which was crowned with an old-fashioned
pent-house, and displayed on its aides the
showy chequers painted red and white, two
figures were to be seen, whose dress and bear*
264 ATCHKRLi£¥*
ing seemed but little to accord with the rusti­
city of all around them. To judge from ap­
pearance they were master and servant, as
the most forward person, who was notwith­
standing the youngest, had an air of authority
sufficiently marked to make known the rela
tion in which they stood to each other, and
the attire of the other was so plain, though he
seemed to be on very confidential terms with
his companion, that the eye could immediately
determine they were not of equal rank. The
age of the superior was evidently not more
than eighteen, and there was a richness of
colour in his cheek, and a delicacy in his com­
plexion which seemed almost too feminine.
His eyes were fine and dark, and his figure
peculiarly elegant. His hair was light and
luxuriant, and in the fashion of the time con­
cealed great part of his face.
The dress of this young person was rich
though not extravagant. A hat was upon
his head, so disposed as to let little
ATCHERLEY. 265
u
o
rethan his bright and cunningeye, anda
ittle of the upper part of hisfacebe distin-
uished, andit w
assoprofuselydecoratedw
ith
arkfeathers that theyservedtoshadoweven
b
elittlethatw
asseenof it. Atunicof dark
elvet,cinctured w
ith a goldbelf, anda sash
f bluesilkpassingdiagonallyacrosshisbreast
enotedthathew
asapersonof som
e conside-
ition; and the rapier he carried at hisside
idicated that if necessary he w
ould not be
ack in putting him
self upon the offensive.
>
v
e
rhis shoulder w
asacloak w
hichhadbeen
artlythrow
noff: it w
asof dark green cloth
teed withgreen silk, and lined with pearl
jlour sarcenet. Hew
orehoseof white, and
ght boots of deer-skin, and carried in bis
a
n
da slender cane w
hich seem
edcalculated
qoccasion to m
ake acquaintance with the
an
k
sof a courser. Altogether his appear-
n
cew
as boldand gallant, som
ew
hat tending
oaffectation; and the perfum
eof w
hich he
'assogreatlyredolent, appearedtoannounce
VOL. II. v
Digitized
ATCHEBLEY.
hew
assom
estrayspringof fashionandfrivo­
lity, w
ho being without controul and undis­
puted m
aster of his own finances, had been
seized with the w
him of travelling, and w
as
now about to m
ake the inn at the door
of w
hich h8 stood, his place ofrest forthe
com
ingnight.
His attendant, for such there was little
doubtw
asthecharacteroftheotherindividual,
was perhaps a year ortwohissenior,and, as
befitting, was somewhat more grave in counte­
nance andbearing. Hisgoodlooksand shape
were doubtless helped by vanity, though his
dress w
as studiouslyplain andunpretending;
a plainness and nnpretension w
hichhadbeen
renderedthe reverse of disadvantageous. He
w
oreajerkin,hose, andhatofgreen,thelatter
without any ornam
entexcepta silk band,and
the two form
er articles of dressw
erebound
withsilk lace of the som
ecolour,andslightly
ornam
entedwith sm
all buttons. The second
ATCHBSLEY. 267
parson also carried a lightsw
ord, and seem
ed
as likelytohandleit, iftherem
ightbeoccasion,
asadroitlyand courageouslyas hisgayer and
m
oreauthoritativecom
panion.
As Atcherleyand Boland drew up tothe
inndoor, theynaturallyattractedtheobserva­
tion of thoee w
ho stood at it. The friends
w
ere not sorryto encounter a person w
hose
tout ensemble announced gentle blood, and
seem
ednotdisinclinedtoseekanacquaintance
withhim
. Bolandw
asthefirsttodism
ountand
toaddressthesuperiorstranger.
" Good evening to you,sir,” saidhe, “w
e
have an unexpectedgratificationinm
eetingon
ourarrival, two w
hoprom
isetobesuchrespec­
tablefellowlodgers.”
“I hope, sir,” w
as the answ
er, “you will
not be deceived by appearances,though they
are oftendeceitful. Thetruecharacterofour
intendedlodgingsuffersbyitsaspect.”
“By yourw
ords,” said Boland, “I should
k 3
268 ATCHERUSY.
be led to suppose its accom
m
odations are
better than its outside appears to prom
ise.
G
ood new
satall tim
esto w
eariedandhungry
travellers.”
“ It is always a rule of m
ine,” returned
the stranger, togivea goodcharacter w
hen
1 am conscientiously do so. W
e are often
com
pelledto do violence tooursincerity, are
we not, sir?or com
m
endation w
ouldbecom
e
so strange a thing that it would take leave
of oarlips. The world leans sotothe w
rong
side that we are com
pelled to preserve the
equilibrium by establishing an im
aginative
rightone; and such istheinherentweightof
virtue, that a sm
all portion, a portionthat
wouldbelostif dissipatedinthegreatfieldof
evil, will serve tom
aintaintheequipoise with
them
ostsatisfactoryregularity. The form
id­
ablenessof ill restsonlyinitsquantity.”
“Youphilosophiseearly,sir,”saidAtcherley,
w
ho hadjustdism
ountedandw
asstrokingthe
head ofbis courser, “I applaud yourenter-
ATCfiBBLBT. 269
prise. The naturalist who id the outset of
his journey keeps the sharpest eye forspeci­
m
ens, willthe soonest fillhisbag. You have
the advantage of getting past therudim
ents
before othershave once thoughtof beginning
thestudy. Y
ouhavebeenseizedw
ithalaud­
ablespirit of discovery, I presum
e, andhaving
m
asteredthe enigm
as presentedbythe m
etro­
polis, have turned yourattentiontow
ardsthe
singularities of the provinces. O
ne of the
most profitable of studies is undoubtedly*
their houses of public entertainm
ent; andfor
our sake I hope you have m
ade consider­
ableprogress.'’
“Mydiscoverieshave em
bracedm
anym
at­
ters,” answ
ered the youthful stranger, “and
notam
ongtheleastof them 1 reckonm
ype­
netrating the true character of the building
behind m
e. I encourage retiring m
erit, and
ampleasedthat things w
orthyestim
ationare
tobefoundunderanunpretendingappearance.
Suchisthepresentcase.”
/*
C
270 ATCHERLET.
• Its owner,*’rejoined Atcherley, “ ought to
be prowl of no prepossessing an advocate.
With your recommendation, mr, we will make
it our head quarters for the night—"
" And request your company,” added Bo­
land, “ to our supper. Congenial companion­
ship will render it doubly palateahle. I
hope yon have no reason to keep yourselves
private.”
“ None in particular,” respondedthe stranger,
"and as I am somewhat partial to variety I
will accept yonr well-intended invitation. I
am afraid, however,” he continued, with an
affected air, “ yon will find me something of a
dull companion.”
“ We may, perhaps, with better justice re­
ciprocate the self-distrust,” saidRoland “ By
yonr leave, good sir, we will seek a better ac­
quaintance with our hostelry.”
At this moment the ostler came up to lead
off the horses to the stable; and Boland and
Atcherley, having resigned them to his care
u
ATCHERLEY. 271
with an injunction to look well after them,
followed their new friend, who, hearing the
wish of Boland, had led the, way to the inn.
They entered the house, and following their
youthful guide, who seemed familiar with the
internal dispositions, ascended an old fashioned
staircase which led to the upper story, and
entered a good sized and comfortable apart­
ment which looked towards the street. The
furniture was of a better description than is
usually to be met with in such places, and its
gay carpet, covering the whole of the floor, and
polished oaken walls imparted an air of snug­
ness and respectability.
The little party seated themselves and con­
tinued their conversation; the stranger can­
vassing each subject with a readiness and
nonchalance that appeared above his years. He
had directed his attendant to follow him, and
after a whisper to our travellers intimating
that he usually indulged him in such familiar­
ities, as the terms they were upon were exceed-
2?2 ATCHEHUnr.
ingly confidential, and his education and family
were much beyond his present situation,
directed him to take a Beat at the farther end
of the table. He was obeyed in silence, and
throughout the conversation the stranger’s
companion preserved a steady and respectful
silence that argued he knew how to take the
condescension offered Mm in the proper way.
Sometimes, when addressed by Ms oompanioB,
lie would venture to slightly join in the conver­
sation ; but in so doing he never put himself
too forward, midby his behaviour fully bore out
the representations of his master.
Hie latter’s fashionable ease, though tino-
tured with a considerable degree of vanity and
affectation, was rather pleating andpiquantthan
otherwise, and it was not long before both Ro­
land and Atcberley listened with amusement to
hisreadily profferedand sometimes singular re­
marks. There was an archnessin his eye and
a versatile meaning in his smile that seconded
all he said, and greatly helped out whatever
ATCHERLEY. 2 7 3
he intended to convey by their peculiar vivid
and ever-changing expression. He expressed
himself freely on all subjects, and developed a
felicitous and sarcastic humour.
“ I know,” said Atcherley, “ I cannot mis­
take in supposing that London boasts yoor
presence the greater part of the year, and as
we are going thither ourselves, perhaps shall
not trespass by requesting the name of an in­
dividual withwhosesociety we should be highly,
pleased during our limited sojourn there: if
indeed the gratification has in any degree been
mutual.”
“ My dear sir, in country towos and coun­
try inns your compliments are out of place.
You would be wise in reserving them for the
atmosphere of the court: believe me that it is
only there they will be acoepted as current
coin. The people here might be apt to look
upon them os a base issue, copper though
washed with gold. I would not wish them
to be subjected to so gross a mistake, and
n 5
Cookie
274 ATCHBBLHY.
therefore interdict their tender. We shall
doubtless meet again in London; though Ido
not bend my steps directly thither.”
“ You mortify me,” said Atoherley ; “ for,
supposing that to be your destination, I was
about to request your company on the road
to-morrow.”
“ You will want no guide,” responded the
stranger, “ for your road is clear enough—at
least it is so at present—and society might be
troublesome. I depart into another quarter, and
early to morrow morning, so I shall wish yon
adieu tonight. It will not however belong before
I am in London, and there we are not unlikely
to meet: for I will not so offend yon as to sup­
pose you would seek in its eastern parts for a
lodging. My dear sir, there are but two
or three inns in the metropolis that are not
insufferable, and as for the difference in
cost—”
“ Oh 1 it’s not to bethought of,” said iloland
smiling.
ATCBBRLBY* 275
“ As yon say, it is not to be thought of. Be­
sides, such connexions as we should have, of
course we should not look for beyond Temple
Bar. I once did venture on a voyage of dis­
covery beyond its precincts, an act, you will
acknowledge, of particular aud scarcely defen­
sible hardihood.”
“ We are sometimes carried too far,
indeed,” ejaculated Atcherley, “ by the thirst
for novelty.”
“ 1 had occasion to ever after rue the enter­
prise, for I was recognised in the City by some
vagabonds though I dodged them for half an
hour, and nothing but my restless disposition
could have brought me now sofar from a civil­
ised neighbourhood. My rencontre with you
puts me in mind of one of those interesting ad­
ventures of which we read in travels,
where the European veyageur, penetrating
savage and inhospitable countries, unexpect­
edly lights upon a countryman. But, to be
honest and tell the truth, 1 was somewhat dk-
276 ATCHBBLEY.
appointed in finding suoh unexplored and bar­
barous regions bo tolerable as they proved, and
the discovery greatly took away from the
romance 1 had anticipated would attach to my
situation. But I cannot call it a disagreeable
surprise when discomfort in every shape was
exchanged for oonveniences which we must
reckon indispensable.”
“ My dear sir,” said Atcheriey, “ we must •
make up our mind to a number of disagree­
able things when we seek instruction in
travel.”
“ By the help of philosophy,” rejoined the
stranger, “ we can extract honey from weeds:
and as much as I possess of it I assure yon
has been put to proof enough. But the soldier
will not go forth to the battle unless protected
by armour from the attack of Ms antago­
nist, and I did not undertake my present per­
haps rash but still interesting expedition with­
out arraying all my resources against it You
must applaud my providence.”
ATCHURLEY. 277
“ I do indeed,” said Atcherley drily, “ espe­
cially as you were entering upon a business
which might end in difficulties, and perhaps
danger.”
The stranger appeared startled, and looked
a moment at the speaker before he re­
plied—
“ I had views of my own to second, and
had the welfare of a friend in prospect in
whom I take much interest; and it would not
be seemly to grudge somepains.’’
“ I must suppose your friend was in igno­
rance of your intentions in his favour.”
“ He was, or—”
4
‘ He might have been willing,” interrupted
Atcherley, “ to save you the trouble. It would
have been ungenerous in him to have shielded
himself from risk behind your exertions. Upon
my honour he has chosen a somewhat youthful
champion.”
“ Perhaps,” said the young stranger, “ your
reading will furnish yon with something which
278 A
T
C
IU
Sm
U
B
T
.
may be urged is justification. A certsun
young shepherd, named, if I remember rightly,
David, slew once upon a time, m the story
books have it, a certain Philistine giant called
Goliath. You will acknowledge appearances
in the combat were much in favour of the
latter?”
There was a singular meaning in Atcherley’s
■mile as he replied.
“ Hum—I see your point. Few, to confess
a truth, could have prophesied his overthrow.”
A rejoinder was prevented by the entrance
of a servant with refreshments. The party
immediately began to make acquaintance with
what had been laid before them. The young
stranger, when the table was cleared, motioned
to his attendant, who instantly rose, opened,
and stood at the door. The bow of the former
though graceful was somewhat embarrassed,
and it was under the plea of fatigue that he
intimated his intention of retiring. Boland
and Atcherley rose and bade good night to
a t c h e r l e y . 279
their young companion, hoping that they
would be able to again see each other before
their several departures the following morning.
To this the stranger made a polite though
evasive answer, and repeating his bow quitted
the apartment.
A fter a low reverence he was fol­
lowed by his attendant; and the two tra­
vellers were left to their own reflections.
Their ensuing day’s journey demanded early
hours, and after a desultory conversation on
the strange character of their new acquaintance,
both rang for attendance and quitted the sit­
ting room for their bedchambers.
Hi
280 ATCHEBLEY.
CHAPTER X.
“ Be&ttiiM I—
—-
How beautiful is all this visible world 1
How glorious in its action and itself!
But we, who name ourselves its sovereigns-^we,
Half dust, half deity, alike unfit
To sink or soar, with our mix’d essence make
A conflict of its elements, and breathe
The breath of degradation and of pride.
Contending with low wants, and lofty will,
Till our mortality predominates,
And men are—what they name not to themselves,
And trust net to each other.”
Manfred.
O u r travellers rose at an early hour next
muring, and on entering the apartment they
had used the previous day were greatly disap­
pointed and somewhat surprised to learn that
ATCHEBLEY. 281
their companion erf yesterday had already quit­
ted the inn. Conjectures on the subject occu­
pied them during their breakfast and the first
hour of their journey.
“ It is odd, is it not ?” said Roland after a
pause.
“ Not altogether,” returned Atcberley.
“ Ton heard last night that he intended to
depart early, and he declared his intention of
wishing us adieu last night. And he did so.”
“ He did; though his ‘good bye’ was some­
what of the slightest.”
“ A capricious stripling, who is bis own
master ami seeking wisdom in his own fashion.
Come, he is not worth further debate: you
seem to have suddenly become interested in
him. Let ns mind our own affairs, which will
soon become pressing enough.”
“ I cannot account for it, but there it some­
thing about him, though he is little removed
from a pappy, that has interested me,” re­
turned Roland. “ Don’t you think there is
ATCHKBLBY.
something of a likeness between him and
Julia? I never heard that she had a brother;
though perhaps you have made some such
discovery.”
“ Ha, ha,” laughed Atcherley. “ Your mis­
tress, Boland, is ever present to you in one
shape or another, and you have now invested
this I must confess good-looking youth with
some of the characteristics. My eyes, you
know, are not blinded, and take my word for
it that the resemblance only exists in your
vivid and too credulous imagination. You
must make your horse increase Ms speed, for
I must be in Loudon to-night"
This direction, good humouredly urged,
made Boland instinctively clap his spurs into
his horse’s side, and both travellers were can­
tering along at a speed which precluded con­
versation. About the middle of the day they
arrived at S t Alban’s, where they took re­
freshment and baited their horses. After an
Intermission of some time they were again
ATCHERLEY. 283
upon the road, and passing through Coney,
North Mima, Barnet, Highgate and Islington,
without any aocident worth relating arrived at
the inn or hotel where they intended to quar­
ter themselves during their stay in London.
This, being secluded and well answering their
present purpose, was situate at the end of one
of the streets leading from the Strand down
towards the Thames.
It was about eight o'clock f.m ., that they
stopped at the old fashioned porch of the inn
known in the neighbourhood by the sign of
the *Lion of England.’ This house which
would in our day have been denominated an
hotel of second or third*rate importance, was
rather extensive, though its front was very
irregular and presented at the entrance part
but an inconsiderable surface. It ran however
largely back and skirted the bank of the river,
from which it was protected by an old wall
supported in placesby props of massive timber.
The irregular street at the end of which it
ATCHEBLEY.
was situate, having no thoroughfare and only
a wall breast high with an iron gate and steps
leading down to the water at its southern ex­
tremity; was extremely secluded, and was sel­
dom disturbed by the footsteps of any person
except thaw people who were going to some
one of the houses in it. It was tbit air of soli­
tude and its scarcely noticeable front which
had made Atoherley choose it as his residence
daring his stay in the metropolis. Its interior
was clean though old fashioned, and its ser­
vants were both respectful and assiduous.
Our travellers were received at the door by
the landlord, an old man with a bald head
and white hair. He directed the horses, which
had been sufficiently worked, to be conveyed
to their stable, and with a candle in his hand
condescendedhimself to usherhis guests to their
apartments. These were the sameas Atcherley
had before occupied in the house. He had
signified his pleasure on first seeing the host
that these should be appropiated to the use
ATCHBKLF.Y. 285
of himself and friend, as, the greater part
of the house being unoccupied, he had
the power of selecting Ms accommodations.
Ascending a wide staircase with very broad
landing places and heavy balusters, the two
gentlemen, ushered by the ceremonious land­
lord, who gravely marched at some distance
before and preserved the most formal silence,
entered the sitting room and immediately
ordered supper. The direction was received
with a stiff bow, and the host stalked out of
the room.
These apartments consisted of four rooms;
a small antechamber, a sitting apartment of
good dimensions, and two sleeping rooms on
the other side of a long gallery, the few win­
dows of which looked out upon the river.
The sitting room had the advantage of a bay
window fitted up with sashes opening out­
wards according to the Continental fashion,
■nd leading to a balcony commanding an ex­
tensive view of the old fashioned rows of
286 ATCHEB1 3 T.
houses on each side the Thames, the top of
Westminster Abbey, the spires of several
churches, Whitehall, and the Surrey hills oa
the opposite bank.
At present alt was seen to great ad­
vantage. The moon, then at her full,
was shining brilliantly in the clear blue
sky spangled with quivering stars and full
of fleecy clouds, which, as they sailed one
after the otherover its resplendent disc, seemed
like islands of floating silver in a sea of sap­
phire. The placid surface of the river re­
flected the dear light, and returned in fiery
streaks the many lights which glimmered in
the low and crossed casements of the houses
on its gloomy margin. The crowded buildings
on the opposite side of the river, with their
strangely charactered gables, contrasted with
•the better edifices on the Westminister side
of it and the tapering spires of its moonlit
churches and the tops of the public buildings,
stood deeply out in the picturesque blue
twilight, and formed a close yet irregularly
ATCHERLEY. 287
ontlinei strip of bouses until it terminated
in the densely packed buildings in the imme­
diate neighbourhood of London Bridge, and
the many arches of that \enernble struc­
ture. There was no sound to be heard but
the distant plash of the waterman's oar as
be leisurely pulled back towards his station,
and the subdued voices, breaking drowsily
on the stillness, of perhaps some late pas­
sengers on the river.
The furniture of the sitting room was costly
though antique. The bay window was fur­
nished with crimson draperies, suspended from
an ebony cornice: the walls, which were
rather high, were of wood, carved, panelled,
and highly polished ; and the ceiling displayed
so many complicated devices that it puzzled
and yet pleased the eye. A Flemish carpet
was upon the floor; a large beoufet of dark
wood, the scrolls and knobs of which were
lacquered, was on one side, and a range of
high-backed ebony chairs, furnished with
288 ATCHBRLEY.
crimson seats and elaborately wrought, upon
the other. A gilt branch was suspended from
a flower in the middle of the ceiling, which
on festive occasions was wont to be filled with
wax lights; a Dutch painting in a gilt frame
was hung over the door, the handle, key-hole,
and the lock of which latter were richly
flourished; and the lozenge casements were
filled with glass of beautiful colours,
Roland had but little time to note all these
particulars,for a drawer now entered the room,
bearing a tray containing the refreshments
which had been ordered. A fair linen cloth
having been laid upon the oaken table, Roland
and his friend drew near and began to help
themselves to what had been laid before them.
The supper consistedof boiled fish, wellaccom­
panied by French and Italian sauces, a couple
of chickens, and a little confectionary. The
wine was French, and of a tolerable quality.
Their day’s journey had given both an ap-
ATCHEBLET. 26!)
petite, and thej did ample justice to mine
host’s good cheer.
“ Don’t you think,” said Atoherley, “ that
I have done well in selecting this house as'
our temporary residence ?”
“ I have no reason,” answered Roland, “ to
find fault with your choice. It strikes me,
however, it is very secluded. Why, one can­
not hear the sound of a single footstep 1
”
“ We have not the liveliness of Paris,
certainly,” rejoined Atcherley. “ But ’tis
none the worse for that.”
“ I should fancy,” continued Roland, “ that
we are mine host’s only guests.”
“ I don’t know,” answered his friend. “ The
place may prove as convenient to others os to
ourselves. It is important, just now, that our
retreat should not be known by everybody.
“ You should rather say,” ejaculated Roland,
' that it should not be known by anybody.
We stand little chance of being discovered by
VOL. II. o
290 ATCHEHLEY.
any of our friends in this out-of-the-way situ­
ation."
“ And all the better. The friends who can
just now best stead ua are easily found, and
communication with others might be produc­
tive of inconvenience, Within three days
from this we must depart towards Cambridge-
shire.”
“ Is it in that place that our projects are to
commence?” enquired Roland.
“ It if," answered Atcherley- “ You per­
haps don’t know that Charles has already de­
parted for Newmarket. He returns in about
three weeks from this, and we go to meet
him.”
“ As friends orenemies?" demanded Roland.
“ That may he as circumstances shall
decide. I have seen one of our parly who
tells me Master Oliver Rockingham will be in
London to-morrow at dusk. My informant
escaped, your notice; it argues well for our
mode of operation.”
Xtcherley. 291
<( Rockingham, I suppose,” stud Roland,
“ will be too wise to make this his heal
quarters.”
“ Yes, he will lodge in another part of the
town,” returned Atcherlejr. “ But to-morrow
is a day of general meeting, and Rockingham,
no doubt, will be one of the first at the ren­
dezvous. It takes place at dark, and at it we
shall settle oar future operations; for it will be
the last time we see each other until we all
meet in our scene of action.”
“ Which is-----■
” interrupted Roland.
“ You will see,” interrupted Atcherley in
turn. “ Iam not afraid of trusting you, since
you are as deeply engaged in the wholebusiness
as the rest of us ; but this is no place for such
talk. We shall all have enough to do, and
the grand blow which we are about to strife
will half crown' our projects with success.
Come, dismiss the business from your mind to­
night ; yon will have enough and to spare of it
to-morrow. Turn your thoughts towards your
mistress; for 70a know 70a are fighting for
her, and each da7 brings 70a nearer your
wishes. Hold out manfully to the end and
your task will be complete; besides your
fortune is to be made, and now or never is the
word. Love, glory, wealth and honour, wave
you on; and with such temptations to invite,
who would be found a laggard! not one of
your spirit, I am sure.”
“ And what reward do you shape for your­
self?” asked Bohud.
“ I shall partake of the advantages,” an­
swered Atcherley. “ Love is a aecondaiy
consideration with me; besides I have mo mis-
treas to win: glory I care not for, unless it bo
accompanied with somethingsubstantial: never
was there an emptier wish, Boland, than that
of shining in the eyes of posterity. Sorely it
is as wise to take to yourself the poise ami
fame of mother, as to long for a rnamoiy
when you cannot evenpiewnre yew own iden­
tity. Show me that the ancient worthies of
293
Greece id Bornecan take a present pleasure
in—can even comprehend or be made to un­
derstand what is called their immortality, and
I will most respectfully bow to the principle.
As for wealth, as It is a means of obtaining
all the good things of the world, I have a
natural inclination to possess it ; but not in
such weight—
like the charger which is soloaded
with splended trappings that his movements
are impeded and his beauty ooncealed—as
to cumber me. Lastly, as for honour, it is so
very windy and uncertain an advantage—so
liable to be blown about by the capricious
breath of the multitude—so very delicate and
fragile a commodity, that a touch will sully,
a grasp destroy it, that I am tempted to
wish but for one kind of honour—self-
approbation ; self-appreciation, if you will.
Our own conscience is the tribunal to which
we carry all appeals, and though the court
may be corrupt, its corruptions are so felicit­
ously disguised that its decrees are received
both with reverence and confidence; and it
Atc h er let.
hu the singular and never-failing advantage
of identifying itself with the applicant for its
justice. Make your design tally with the in­
clinations, prepossessions or prejudices of an­
other, and yon may look upon your success as
certain.”
The time was meanwhile rapidly advancing.
The supper things were cleared away; Boland
sat himself down to write a letter to Julia,
and Atcherley amused himself with reading a
volume of Necromantic Tales which he had
found on the beaufeb At their usual time
both retired along the gallery to their several
bed-chambers, which were situated at some
distance from each other.
Atcherley’s apartment was one of large
size, with antique furniture and tapestried
walls. It looked out upon die river, which
was now unspeckled with boats, and its glassy
surface reflected back the moonlight, as the
gleaming orb had now attained its greatest
elevation, with unequalledbrilliancy. The light
ATCHERLEY, 295
clouds, too, had disappeared, the wind had
fallen, and the azure heavens were
" Thick inlaidwith patines ofbright gold.”
Feeling no inclination to immediately betake
himself to his bed, he threw off his outer gar­
ment and wrapped himself in a light dressing
robe which the sultriness of the-night rendered
peculiarly agreeable. Thus attired he opened
the lozenged sash, and stepped out upon a bal­
cony of good width, defended by a heavy
Gothic balustrade.
Great part of the tbiekly populated city lay
spread before him. But all at this hour was
hushed into silence and repose. Every light
was extinguished on the opposite side of the
river, and nothing but the quiet and beautiful
moon, slowly pursuing her trackless and silvery
way across the lucid blue, and streamingdown
her fairy radiance on
" Glimmering palace roof and taperingspire,’
296 • ATCHBBLEY.
seemed to be awake. How extremely beauti­
ful, yet how impossible to describe, is a still
midnight when enlightened by the watery
disc of s full and elevated moon I
THE E S » OF VOL. It,
ATCHERLEY.
VOL. III.
THE
SHIP OF GLASS;
os»
T H E M F S T E E I O U S I S L A N D
A BOMANCE,
I S T E H E E V O L U M E S .
mr
HARGBAVE JENNINGS.
AUTHOR Of “ MI MARINE MKMOBAHDUM BOOK,” &C.
“ ‘ There was a Shipp,* quoth he.”
Coleridge'i Ancient Mariner.
VOL. III.
L O N D O N :
THOMAS CAUTLEY NEWBY, PUBLISHER,
78, M ORTIM ER Sr., CAVENDISH Sq.
ATC [ E RL E Y.
CHAPTER I.
“ Oloten. Sh« bath all courtly parts more exquisite
Than lady, ladies, woman : fromevery one
The best she bath, and she, of all compounded,
Outsails them a ll: 1 love her therefore.
Is she with Posthfimus ?
Pitanio. This paper is the history of my knowledge,
Touching her flight.
Cloten. Let’s see’t----------1 will pursue her
Even to Augustus’ throne.”
Cymhtline. Act 3. Scene 5.
It is now time to devote a few pages to Sir
Reginald, who, as the reader has doubtless
surmised, was the individual who passed Ro­
land and Atclierley on their way to London.
von. m. B
He had not only been surprised, but inwardly
perplexed and mortified in finding that Boland
had so soon returned from the Continent.
His views were thus again darkened, and he
dreaded his presence operating upon the known
partiality of Julia. He had hoped that time
and Roland’sindiscretions wouldhave asalutary
influence upon her feelings, and would have
gradually estranged her from him; but his re­
turn disconcerted all his hopes and projects,
and threw him into the same unhappy con­
dition from which with so much toil and
chicanery he had contrived to extricate him­
self. Roland at a distance, he fancied he
might have a chance of success ; hut triale
he was constantly in her eyes, and able to
take advantage of her prepossessions, he knew
that his endeavours would be utterly in vain.
His love seemed to bum the fiercer for the
obstacles which it encountered, and the farther
he seemed from the accomplishment of his
wishes, the less could he brook the simple
L
_
5
ATCHE1 LEY. 3
thought of being forced to give her up. He
therefore determined to spin his web afresh,
and keeping a fair face towards all parties, de­
liberately put his schemes in operation. If he
could succeed by no other means, he deter­
mined to found the accomplishment of his
wishes upon the utter ruin of his brother.
Perhaps his passion was all the more bois­
terous because in other matters he was cold
and moderate. He had built all his hopes
upon his love for Julia Rockingham; and he
determined to force his desire through every
difficulty that might be raised up against
bim.
Luckily he did not become aware that Ro­
land and Atcherley had paid their first visit to
Rockingham’s bouse, and that Roland’s pre­
tensions, owing to his co-operation, and still
more the oath of secrecy and union which hod
been obtained from him, were sanctioned by
the latter. Had he known this, he would—
cautious and temperate as he was by nature—
b 3
ATCHE&LET.
bate been scarcely able to conceal his rage.
He resolved to keep as well with, and to ap­
pear as brotherly as he could to Boland, in
order that the latter might have no suspicion
of the re-il state of his feelings and the designs
which he entertained against him.
■ Ateherley, meantime, had deeper objects
than either of the brothers, and acted too
upon a much more perfect system. He looked
with contempt both upon Sir Reginald and
Roland, and determined to play them off
against each other, forwarding at the same
time, in all he said and did, the grand designs
of whicli he never lost sight. He had fully
succeeded in duping both, artfully guiding
their views so as in every instance to make
them the workers of their own destruction,
while his interest in each of them was fully
credited, and his untiring and disinterested
efforts in their behalf looked upon with grati­
tude and wonder. As the reader may have
surmised, he was deeply attached to Julia
ATCHERLEY. 5
Rockingham himself, and his secret love was
doubtless all the more despotic for being so
studiously concealed. He was not ft person
by word, look, or act, to betray any passion
which he desired to yeil, and hfs guard over
himself was so absolute, that the keenest and
most experienced eye would have been utterly
at fault in the enquiry. Of the ultimate suc­
cess of this wayward love he was perfectly
confident, and the machinery by which he
sought that end, though circuitous was sure.
Those upon whom he operated were in his
hands but puppets, and, master of the wires
that worked them, he could give what turn
he pleased to their movements, and could ter­
minate the exhibition whenever he thought
proper.
The secret and implacable hatred which he
bore to the whole house of Torrington—
grounded upon what, as will become hereafter
apparent, appeared to him sufficient reasons—
explaining the presentation of Roland’s name
C
6 ATCHERLEY.
at the midnight meeting beneath the nuns,
caused him to decoy Sir Reginald to London
for the purpose of destroying him. Submit­
ting Roland to the poniards of the Secret So­
ciety, he determined to deal with S r Reginald
himself. These were the only obstacles to
the gratification of his ambition. He had
sworn to never rest till the Torrington family
had been extirpated, and the title and pos­
sessions united in himself. His sobemes were
now fast ripening, and the death of the present
proprietor would help him greatly forward.
The means by which he tempted Sir Regi­
nald Torrington to the metropolis, he knew
would not fail. He gave him information,
during the few days he remained in the house,
which led him to expect that Julia Rockingham
would be found in the footstepsofRoland. This
information set Sir Reginald immediately in a
flame. He determined on an immediate attempt
to earry her ofE First, to convince himself, he
paid a harried visit to Rockingham, whose
ATCHERLEY. 7
views had now naturally changed towards
him- His eager and embarrassed air gave rise
to suspieion: —
Rockingham*! peculiar situation
made him distrustful of all his neighbours
except those who were as deeply compromised
as himself in his plot; and an answer to his
hasty, ill-judged, and almost passionate en­
quiries, was naturally declined. This added
fuel to flame: Julia was absent from her home,
he could gain no information from her father
of her, and his worst suspicions were realised.
He had no means—since his imprudence coun­
teracted his wishes—to arrive at the truth,
whiob merely was, that as Roland was absent,
as her father was shortly to leave his house, and
he did not wish, especially as be was about to
engage in suob a dangerous enterprise, though
this he carefully kept from his daughter, to
leave her unprotected, she had already taken
her departure for Bedfordshire, ou a visit to a
maiden sister of her father's, who had sent
her a pressing invitation to reside with her
during the latter’s temporary absence.
8 ATCIJKHLET.
Perhaps had Sir Reginald even heard the
truth, he would have fancied, knowing her
volatile and capricious disposition, that instead
of reaching her appointed destination she
would turn aside and follow her lover. He
did not know how much she distrusted* At*
cherley, and feared that be would lead Roland
into pursuits which might compromise both
honour and safety. She was also by no means
pleased at so constant a companionship bo-
tween them, and dreaded that while appa-
rently only watchful for the good of others,
he was occupied only with himself and hi#
own collusive designs. Whether her suspi­
cions were well founded or no, was only to be
proven in the sequel.
Occupied only withone thought.SirBeginald
set out, disguised as much as possible, to Lon­
don. He took but one attendant with him,
and this man he took good care should not be
one of his own domestics, with whom of course
both Roland and Atoherley were well m
o-
ATCHEBLEY. 9
quainted. Taking the same road as the latter,
as we have seen he passed them during his
Becond day’s journey. He saw the sly smile
with which Atcherley recognised him through
his disguise, but confident enough in other
respects did not choose to hazard his voice in
returning the greeting.
Arriving in London early on the day at the
close of which the two friends also entered it,
and informed beforehand where Atcherley in­
tended to put up, he bent his steps towards
the “ Lion of England,” and immediately se­
cured a couple of rooms in a remote part of
the house, studiously keeping up his disguise,
scarcely ever appearing out of his apartments,
and when sallying out invariably making use
of a private entrance which communicated
with the street to which the front of the
house looked, by a narrow and particularly
obscure court.
Two days passed on, and he had not yet
seen anything to justify his suspicions. In-
▲ T C H nur.
deed he had soaroely Men anything of Boland
or Atcherley; for the part of the house in
whioh he was lodged was n o t e from that
usually chosen. He had not escaped, however,
the sharp eye of Atohetley; but they .were
much too guarded to hold at present any com*
munication.
Rockingham had by this time arrived in
the metropolis, and the meeting glanced at by
Atcherley had already taken place. As the
former quartered himself at the other end of
the town, he had been only seen at the reader-
com*. He was to depart for the farm on the
road to Newmarket which was to be the scene
of action, and which was, in after days, known
by the name of the “ Bye House,” the follow­
ing morning, and the rest of the conspirators,
Atcherley and Boland included, were to speed­
ily folbw.
▲TCHBlUVa 11
CHAPTER IL
“ logo.—Here, s tu d behind this bulk; straight
will he come;
Wear th j good rapier bare, and pot it home :
Quick, quick j fear nothing j I’ll be at thy elbtw :
It makes us, or it mars u s; think on that.
And fixmost firm thy reaolu ion.
Kill men fthe d a * I—Where be these bloody
thieves 1
How silent is this town I—H o ! murder 1 murder f
Othello. Act. t . Scene 1.
I t was as nearly as possible eleven o’clock the
third night of his arrival in London, th at Sir
Reginald was returning, muffled as usual, to
the ‘ Lion of England.’ Anxious to escape
the weariness and perplexity of his own
thoughts and th e overpowering solitude of his
12 atchkblet.
room, he had resolved for a tim e to go out,
with the double purpose of seeking relief and
endeavouring to discover some trace of her of
whom he w m in search. I f Ms Information
had been correct and Ju lia was in reality fol­
lowing Boland’s steps, it was probable that
die was in the neighbourhood, or had some
means of ascertaining his movements. In a
perplexity that was pitiable, he wandered
about; sometimes thinking that he m ust alto­
gether have been deceived, and at others
burning with jealousy and intensely anxious to
obtain a clue to her retreat. H is eyes roved
in every direction with a vigilance that let no­
thing escape. H e had hazarded enquiries at
several of the inns in the neighbourhood, but
they had term inated in disappointment. In­
stead of being weakened, his determination
seemed to grow every hour stronger, and he
firmly resolved not to leave London until be
had obtained the knowledge be sought.
W ith this resolution, and with an eye on
ATCHEULEY. 13
every face Le met, he proceeded slowly dowu
the Strand, and turned into the street in which
the inn was situated. The night was dark,
the moon having been concealed for some time
by an accumulation of clouds. It was dismal
in other respects, for the wind had risen in the
coarse of the evening, and was now wailing
aad whispering round the corners, and through
the intervals of the high and old fashioned
houses. As he advanced he could hardly see
the way before him, for lamps there were none,
and the light from the sky only served, as it
hus been expressed, “ to make the darkness
visible.” The street was particularly narrow,
and several disused and ruinous alleys, some
long and winding, and others closed at their
ends by tall and heavy looking buildings, .led
off on either side. The bouses on each side of
the Btreet were of various sizes; some being
high though narrow, with their several stories
protruding one over the other aud their crazy
casements in very bad repair, and others
a t c b b b l c t .
broad and dingy, their flat, red brick walls
strengthened with X ’s and crosses of iron
greatly impaired by mat, and displaying but a
very scanty distribution of windows. The
roof line exhibited a succession of singularly
liig-zagged gables, some embellished with
crumbling mouldings, and others decorated
with tall and fantastic pinnacles of wood. The
fates of these antique edifices were profusely
embellished with woodwork in the shape of
perpendicular, cross, and diagonal beams,
balustrades, pendants, brackets, elaborate
carvings, and twisted columns to the deeply
reoessed uid pedimented porches. Sometimes
short wdli intervened between the houses
inclosing perhaps a paved court of small
dimensions, and provided with a gate or gates
of rich ironwork.
All was stUli except the occasional whistle
of the wind, as Sir Reginald walked dewa
the street. The profound silence that reigned
at times was unbroken even by the echo of a
ATCHBRLEY. 15
distant footstep, and not a light was seen to
glimmer in the trellised windows as tie Bucoes-
■▼617 passed them. The city was not so
secure at that advanced hour, and in such
secluded situations, as might have been de­
sirable, and therefore Sir Reginald, feeling
the cold air of the river come freshly to his
face, drew Us large cloak more closely around
him and increased his pace. The unskilful
and irregular police of the day waa not suffi-
ciently powerful to protect the passenger from
the many thieves and abandoned characters
that were accustomed after nightfall to infest
the obscurer parts of die city; and street
robbery mid murder were of too frequent oc­
currence to allowone to thread its complexities
without fear and vigilance. A score of dis­
agreeable recollections on the subject came
across Sir Reginald’s mind; and though he
was a man of acknowledged courage he felt
but little inclination to test it in an encounter
in which there was all to lose and nothing to
16 ATOHKRLEY.
gain. His eye therefore glanced cautiously
around him j and he was prepared at the least
indication of danger to pat himself on the
defensive.
He had with these thoughts, and with these
Intentions, mastered three parts of the distance
he had to go; and in a few moments more had
arrived at the court which, as mentioned
before, he had always used since his ar­
rival in town as the means of ingress and
egress to and from the *Lion of England.’
Before he advanced into itsgloom, however, he
turned quickly round, and looking up the dark
and dismal street inwardly congratulated him­
self upon his past risk and present security.
His glance was one of a moment, and, turn­
ing lightly on his heel, he plunged into the
obscurity of the court before him, nnd in a
few minutes would have reached the door.
Before, however, be had advanced three paces,
a dark figure darted out of a shadow by his
ride, and before he had time to draw his sword
ATCHEKLEY. 17
or even utter a cry a dagger was plunged in
his breast! Its gleam had been but mo­
mentary, but the end was accomplished. Sir
Reginald fell on the ground, gave one
convulsive shiver, uttered a long and heavy
groan, and instantly expired.
The assassin, after listening a moment in
statue-like intensity, bent slowly down, threw
apart the heavy cloak-in which his victim had
been enveloped, uncovered his face, and gazed
upon his ghastly features with the smile of a
demon. Those features now wore the terrible
marks of violent and just-parted death; the
glassy eyes seemed fixed upon those of the mid­
night murderer in a soul-freezing gaze, and the
lips and cheeks were as white as marble.
No sound broke on the fearful stillness: even
the wind seemed to have died away in horror
at the deed, and a double darkness to have
fallen over every surrounding object. Rifling
the pockets of the murdered man, and throw­
ing away the instrument of his fiendish guilt,
ATCHBSLBY.
in order to make it appear the victimbadMen
into the hands of robbers, the assassin rose
slowly from his inclined position, loosened bis
mantle, raised his hat and displayed the well-
known countenance of Ateherky, pale, indeed,
but still retaining all its surpassing composure.
Atcherley had already decided upon his
further movements: he looked down at his
apparel;■■ -there were.no marks of blood:
lie looked upon his hands;—with the dagger
had departed every evidence of his crime.
ATCHERLEY. 19
CHAPTER IH.
“ The house and farm-offices were half ruinous; the
roads almost impassable; besides the district in
which Waldheim’s farm lay was gloomy and repul­
sive. The lands were flat and sandy, surrounded on
every side by dark fir-woods that shut out every
prospect. No verdant meadows refreshed the
wearied eyes— no clear lively streams varied the
landscape; only, not far from the dwelling-house,
there was a desolate stagnant lake, which any good
husbandman would have drained and got rid of.
‘ Thither,’ said I to myself, ‘ one should send the
romantic panegyrists of a country life ;—there they
would find the most complete and incontestible re­
futation of their pastoral and Arcadian theories.’”
German Tales by E. P. Gillies.— The Warnin'/.
R o l a n d and Atcherley rose early next morn­
ing, intending to set out for the Rye-house
that day, but not purposing to begin their
journey until eleven or twelve in the forenoon.
20 ATCHKRLKY.
Had Atcherley determined to take the direct
road to his destination, two or three hours
only would have been spent in the journey,
bat with that refinement in policy habitual to
him, he resolved to make surety doubly sure,
and take so circuitous a route that the re­
motest possibility of being watched or tracked
would be removed. It was immaterial whether
he and his companion were present at the
Rye-house for a day or two; and the time
might be as well spent upon the road, since
it also contributed to the certainty of their
safety, as in any other way.
Roland was made acquainted with these
circumstances, and readily acquiesced in the
propriety of what Atcherley proposed. He
found, also, that the circuitous route adopted by
his friend had been known to, and settled upon
in concert with Oliver Rockingham.
Our travellers, therefore, early in the after­
noon mounted their horses, after settling with
landlord, who seemed anxious to know
\
ATCI1KR1.EY. 2)
when they should return, and took their de­
parture from the ‘ Lion of England.’ The
first hours of the morning hnd been beautiful;
and the splendour of the noon gave every
promise that the rest of the day would be as
equally agreeable. Their horses were in high
condition, and impatiently pawed the ground
as their riders reined them in for an instant
while they finished their conversation with
mine host.
Atcherley determined that some hamlet or
village a mile or two beyond Watford should
be the limit of their day’
s journey. Taking
their way, therefore, through the western
outskirt of the metropolis, they rode through
Knightsbridge, then a straggling and incon-
aidarable village close upon the park wall of
the Hyde of the Manor of Westminster, and,
reaching Paddington, took the little road that
branched off from the greater Edgeware or
north-western one through the hamlets of
Kensall-Green, Hoddesdon-Green, Wembly-
22 ATCHEBLEY.
Green, Preston, and Kenton, to Stanmore.
Pausing at the latter place for refreshment for
themselves and bait for their horses, they again
departed, travelling leisurely, as the place at
which they thought of remaining could be
reached with the greatest facility by the time
'they desired.
Bushey Heath having been passed over,
they crossed the boundary of Middlesex and
Hertfordshire, and riding through Watford,
proceeded along the road for two or three
miles farther, where finding a narrow bridle-
road they turned off to a solitary hamlet,
called, as they were informed, Bovingdon-
Green. Prom this out of the way place, to
reach the Bye-house they had to take cross­
roads to St. Albans, and from thence to pass
over the country by means of the road be­
tween the last named place and Iloddesdon,
till they introduced themselves into the regular
highway between London and Cambridge.
The Bye-House lay at a few miles’ distance
ATCHIRLEY. 23
from the little town of Hoddesdon. It will
thus be seen that the travellers had to cross
the lower part of Hertfordshire almost in a
direct line from west to east.
The little hamlet before mentioned received
our travellers for the night. Here they put
up at a miserable ale-house, situated some dis­
tance in the northern outskirt;—a place chosen
by Atclierley for its obscurity. They had little
chance indeed of being seen by anybody, for
they were the only guests at the inn and the
neighbourhood was but thinly populated.
They thought it advisable to remain here
the following day, in order to throw off sus­
picion and approach the limit of their journey
with added caution. The day passed heavily
over; and it was with much pleasure that they
contemplated their departure on the morrow.
Early therefore on the following afternoon,
after an ill-dressed dinner they set eagerly out,
determining to leisurely proceed, as their
destination could be reached by nightfalL
24 ATCHERliEY.
For som e miles the country was interesting
in its aspect: but on descending a bill which
wound lengthily and circuitously down into a
straggling tract of bushy ground, its attrac­
tions seemed one after tae other to wane away,
and the appearance of all around them to
become less and less pleasing. Low hedges
skirted the road, which though not very broad
was tolerably smooth; in some places diver­
sified with rows of tall though not particularly
full foliaged elms, which threw long shadows
in the sunshine over the road. The ground
was diversified w ith many undulations not to
say hills, which in some parts looked bare and
bleak, and were in others rendered more
agreeable by clumps of wood and the russet
roofs of farm-houses, with their thatched barn­
yards and mossy out-buildings. Towards the
east, over several attenuated lines of dotted
green, indicating the presence of a more fer­
tile tract, a long expanse of blue country was
remotely to be seen, softening away the deeper
AfCHBjiinrir. 25
tints of the nearer landscape, and greatly im­
proving the aspect of the general country.
The travelers hud not advanced much be­
yond the declivity when Boland’s horse began
to limp, and to exhibit other symptoms of
being unable to keep up with his companion.
Finding his pace considerably slackened. Bo*
land dismounted, and made the unwelcome
discovery that his horse had cast a shoe. This
misfortune was productive •of some delay.
Atcherley next dismounted, and gave his at­
tention to the state of the ankoaL
W ith some ingenuity they contrived to
remedy the mishap, and were again about to
mount, when they perceived a carriage, in
which two persons were seated, quickly ad­
vancing along rise road. Intent upon the
accident the wheels had been unheard both by
Boland and bis friend until the marriage was
near. They were soon overtaken by the new­
comers.
The conveyance in which die latter were
VOL. in. c
ATCHEBLBT.
travelling was a small calash, lightly and not
inelegantly built, and defended by curtains
from the weather. The grey horse which
drew it seemed well calculated for the service.
Though Ms proportions were small, there was
a vivacity in his movements that indicated he
could be speedy upon occasion, and the ease
with which he was managed argued well for
his docility.
When the travellers came close up to Ro­
land and Atcherley, what was the surprise of
the latter to recognize in them the two youths
they had encountered at Dunstable. The sur­
prise appeared to be mutual, though more
marked on Roland and Atcherley’s side.
“ Our Dunstable fellow-lodgers, Atcherley,
by all that is angular!” said Roland to his
friend on making the discovery. “ This is
indeed a most particularly agreeable surprise.”
“ It ought not to be so, but i t m u t t e r e d
Atcherley with his usual cloudy meaning.
ATCHEBliEY. 27
“ A pleasing and unexpected rencontrehe
continued in a louder tone.
“ Not more so on jour side, gentlemen,
than it is on ours,” answered the joungest of
the strangers. “ We were debating whether
we were correct in our surmise that it was
you, sometime before we approached you near
enough to decide the question. Company I
am sure cannot be disagreeable on this lonely
and not particularly attractive road. Besides
our destination may possibly prove to be the
same.”
“ Indeed I” answered Atcherley. “ It
might be so, 111 acknowledge, were oar’s
known-----”
“ And how know you that it is not?” gaily
rejoined the stranger. “ I will allow that you
are innocentof the disclosure, but the business
you are upon doesnot concern you only though
you may have the fee-simple in it. You were
right in having the greater surprise on your
2® ATOM S!.W .
eide, loir during the last two horns 1 have been
on the look out for you.”
“ Haw you indeed?” said Atcherley, “ then
1 must presume that you knew we were abont
to take this rend. Am I correct in nay sup­
position ?”
“ Perfectly bo,” answered the stranger-----
“ At least perhaps I am wrong in saying we
knew the road wUoh you were about to take.
I knew the place to which yon were going,
which was nearly the same thing.”
“ It was indeed,” said Boland, “ if your
knowledge prove to be right, which I am
sousethut^i inclined to doubt But----- if the
question is lair, which as it sonearly concerns us
we>will set down as being so----- hew did you
become aware of it?"
“ I wil} te l you in a moment answered
the stranger, " for there is no occasion for
secrecy. But time does not stay for us, and
in present circumstances it is ghly valua­
ble :----- Are you ready to proceed?”
iTCttJSJSLEV. 29
“ Yes,” was Roland's reply; “ we have
remedied the mishap which delayed os.”
" And your horse is capable o f mastering
the ground which yet lies before him ?----- it is
something considerable.**
“ I io not fear him,” was Boland's reply;
“ besidesat the nearest blacksmith's wecan give
him a new shoe. As you appear to know our
destination so well, you doubtless are ac­
quainted with the road.”
“ Not at all,” said the young stranger.
“ This is the first time I was ever in this direc­
tion. Well, as you are ready, nothing delays
ns; and with yonr good pleasure we will pro­
ceed.”
In a moment Boland was in his saddle and
following Atcherley, who was alread y mounted
and leading the way. He spurred ahead of
the vehicle for a few yards, and approached
close to his friend.
“ Atoherley,” said he in a low voice, “ this
meeting is singular enough; it may be incon-
30 ATCHEBLEY.
venient. Do you think this young fellow, who
seems so inclined to indude himself in our
company, really knows anything of the place
to which we an going.”
“ No,” answered his friend. “ Pray how
should he? Do you think we are such asses as
to let every empty-headed coxcomb into our
secrets? He surprises me something, how­
ever.”
“ Do you think his presence in any way
dangerous?’ continued Roland: “----- govern­
ment spies are not wanting, and those who are
least likely to awaken suspicion would be the
most osefiiL”
“ Dangerous I” cried Atcherley, half laugh­
ing ; “ certainly not. Do you think that 1
should be easy on the subject were there any­
thing worth consideration in it ? No, no, we
must humour him; and it doesnot mnch matter
if he does accompany us to where the road
parts for the place to which we are going.
ATCHERLEY. 31
We will rid ourselves of him by pereuading
him to take the first cross-road.”
These words satisfied Roland. He fell back
andjoined the travellers.
“ This is an unexpected piece of good for­
tune,” thought Atcherley. “ I bargained but
for one advantage, and behold two fall into my
hands! This, properly managed, will compass
all to which I have been so long aiming. ’Tis
well; I reckoned that I was suspected; and
that suspicion has better aided my objects than
the fullest confidence I could have won. I
ought to smile at my calculations having been
sojustified.”
He now pulled in his reins, and waited for
his fellow travellers.
“ You have said,” said he to the stranger,
“ that the means by which you came to a
knowledge of our destination were no secret.
Perhaps then you will enlighten us.”
“ I will do so,” answered the stranger, “ and
readily. In the first place let me say that
▲TCHEBLBT.
perhaps 1 am more worthy of confidence
than my exterior seems to promise. I may
not be altogether so superficial a person as I
appear, and I am not so goided by the breath
of every changing wind as an observer may
fancy me to be. My coming hither is not a
matter of accident I have been commissioned
to seek yon, and sanctioned is a y endeavours
so to do by a party with whom yon win be
probably surprised to find me acquainted.
But I am certain when that party is named
that you will have no distrust I should hare
joined you in a fitter manner—I mean,
not encumbering myself with this vehicle—
had it not been for an unfortunate accident.
You have perceived that I carry my arm in a
sling. A serious injury to the limb quite pre­
vented me from making use of a horse, or
such and such only would have been my m
ode
of travelling. My companion driven for me
we are foster-brothers. I would as soon
trust him as myself in anything, therefore yoa
ATCHBHl^T. 33
a»y confide in bm, Be assured that I am
both fuith&d and 4 t§craofc; able and willing to
O
K
Si-jt JPfP# when my *orvipes wil benefit
othep and advene? wyown proapeqfcs. I am
pot m mused to wpif^itf affairs as yon may
imagine; and when I tell you that the finding
and delivering you a communication has been
entrusted to me by no less a person—no less
.respected by ppe and dearer to you—than
Master Oliver Rockingham, of Longwood,
Derbyshire, I pm positive that you will have
no further distinct. But you may credit better
things than my word. I.know your inten­
tions, and am prepared to lend my feeble aid
towards their furtherance. I wish to become
one of your party. This letter will I hope
remove any reserve you will entertain towards
me.”
Saying these words the youthful stranger
put his hand into his pocket and drew out a
letter, which be presented with a graceful
movement to Atcberley.
c 5
34 ATCHSBEEY.
The latter took it in silence, and deliberately
read the contents. On easting his eye over
the superscription, he immediately recognised
the hand-writing of Oliver Rockingham. It
was with considerable surprise that he sought
a further acquaintance with his letter. It ran
as follows:—
* To Master William Atcherley.—These,
with my sincerest regards.
" D u i Master Atcherley,
“ The bearer of this is a friend of mine,
a n d one upon whom, in every sense of the
word, we can depend. Thou mayest trust
him with the greatest security, for I have been
well satisfied of his faith and discretion. I
have been for some time past seeking means of
communicating with thee, and rite present is
an opportunity which I should havebeen foolish
to let slip.
“ Everything has been arranged for taking
cd'cct All the friends me with me excepting
ATCHERLEY. 35
Roland and thyself; and we wait but thy pre­
sence to put our intentions in operation. I
write this to expedite thine arrival, and at the
same time to tell thee, through the advice of
its owner, not to make use of the road en­
trance to our place of meeting. We have
been here so long that we have not awakened
suspicion by a recent arrival, and we keep so
close that we fear no observation. Your arri­
val will necessarily be later, and in joining us
thou and thy companions must not attract the
attention of the neighbourhood: hawks have
eyes though they keep under cover. There is
a cross-road some two or three hundred yards
from the place from which I write ;—use that;
it will conduct you to the back of the house,
at which you will enter. A few days we shall
be obliged to wait, and then for the final
“ Tell Roland that now is the time he must
prove himself worthy of my daughter. Let
him remember the oath he took before me, and
blow'
M
'gird up his loin*’ for the straggle. *lfce
ho approaches when no man aunt sleep’; let
him up and be doing! We Ight far the Ta­
bernacle of the Lord, for our utters and am
tellies! ire rise up against the pride and abom­
inationsof Satan, and the *Woman who atteth
on the Seven Hills, who is arrayed in purple
and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and
precious stones, and pearls, drunken with the
Hood of the saints, and with the blood of the
martyrs of the Lord.’
“ Be not diffident of my messenger, for I
again assure thee he is trustworthy. He is
deeply Impressed with the necessity of oar
designs, and longs for m
o opportunity of prov­
ing his sincerity. He has been recommended
to -me by one of the brethren; ire have need
of an increase of numbers; and one of the
least..ought to be welcome to our councils.
The addition of one is of the greatest value.
Let not Ms appearance be against him. Sluice
and solidity become our parpams. Though
ATCHURLEY. 37
not given to much speaking, when the battle
is waxing fierce he is not likely to be back­
ward. He will attend thee to our rendezvous.
“ Farewell! until thou seest
“ Thy Friend and Brother in the Word,
“ O l i v e r R o c k in g h a m .
“ P.S. I need not tell thee to destroy this
letter after thou hast shown it to Boland.
" O. R.”
Atcherley, after reading this letter, laid a
finger to his brow, and for a moment was lost
in thought. He then gathered up his reins
with a decided air, and handing over the letter,
said to Boland,
“ Our friend carries his credentials. Thisis
from Oliver Rockingham. Bead it: you will
find that we can place a dependence which we
should have been otherwise justified in with­
holding.”
Boland took the letter and read it carefully
38 ATCHEBLEt.
through. He then returned it to Atcherley,
saying in an under tone,
“ Rockingham is a little out, I think, in
attributing silence and solidity to our nev
acquaintance. He appears however to be tho­
roughly satisfied with him, and if he is I am
sure we can be so also.”
“ We can return ed Atcherley with a du­
bious smile. “ My dear sir,” he continued,
turning to their new friend, “ now that we are
perfectly satisfied of each other’s character,
you will perhaps oblige me with your name.
Mine you doubtless know, and that of my
friend, this young gentleman, is-----”
“ Also known,” interrupted the young man
hurriedly. ‘ Like a good dog I am always
ready to answer to my name. Call me ‘Ho­
race Belford,’ and I shall*not fail to reply.”
“ ’Tis well,” said Atcherley; “ and your
companion’s-— ”
“ Oh, his name is— ” interrupted Master
Belford; “ why-— a——a-----. Yon had
ATCJ LKY. 39
better perhaps put the question where it’s
likely to be most correctly answered. I could
of course inform you; but you shall have your
information at first hand, since the party is
present and has had godfathers. Pray what
are you called in your own neighbourhood?”
he continued, addressing his attendant.
“ If the gentleman,” said the latter with a
smile, “ calls me ‘ Henry Morton,’he will not
make a mistake.*’
“ I am obliged by your confidence,” re­
turned Atcherley, slightly bowing. “ Master
Belford, my worthy correspondent desires me
to destroy the letter with which you were
charged, after I and my friend have perused
it. We have no means of doing so at present,
or I would readily comply with the wish.”
“ There is no need,” said Horace. “ Surely
you can keep it about you till we reach a place
of security. Besides Master Oliver Rockingham
has of course written in such a manner that
4 0 ATGaKEL£Y.
no direct advantage oould be taken of hi*
letter.”
“ He has done so,” was the reply of Atobar*
ley;” hot in these days folks are not over
scrupulous in their interpretation of things on
which they may chance to look with eunpicioa.
But 1 will undertake to be its guardian; and
depend upon it that while under my care, no
eye but my own shall see it I understand
that you are to accompany us.”
“ I am,” answered Horace. “ It is so ex­
pressed, is it not?’’
“ It is,” said Atcberley. “ Some distance
is yet before us, and by the leave of all pre­
sent we will increase our speed.”
The whole party set forward at an amended
rate. Horace Belford and Henry Morton
making their vehicle keep up with the horses
of their companions. About four in the after­
noon they began to greatly feel the want of
refreshment; and in half an hour’s focfcher rule
ATCHEHLEY. 41
a neat little roadside inn luckily presented
itself. By mutual consent all drew up to its
door, and ordering their horses a couple of
hours’ rest, entered the inn to scrutinise its
accommodations. They found a small though
comfortable parlour, and ordered wine and re­
freshments.
The three hones on bring again put in har­
ness seemed much refreshed with their halt,
and trotted along with a speed that argued
well for the care which had been taken of
them by the host. Conversation lightened the
way, and none of the travellers seemed in­
dued to look upon it as tedious. They were
now rapidly approaching their destination, and
were looking out for the cross road which
they had been appointed to take, and which
it had been intimated passed at the rear of the
house towards which they were so rapidly
journeying. Atcherley knew the road and
the house at which the conspirators were as­
sembled.
42 ATCHEHLEY.
The country had for some time become
more interesting. Hill succeeded hill, dis­
closing many a rural prospect, and displaying
the patches of wood which were to be disco­
vered sometimes -crowning the ridge of an
eminence, and at others descending into the
hedge-boundmeadows, and relieving the lighter
green of their silky grass with the shadowy
convolutions of thick foliage.
At length the cross road—the only one, in
fact, on that side which they had seen for
miles—presented itself, winding off seemingly
into a number of high and thick bushes, and
running so narrowly between the tall and un­
clipped hedges, that for two vehicles to have
passed in it would have been impossible. Hie
high road at this place was.somewhat wider,
though a sudden turn, some yards in advance,
concealed in what direction it passed forward.
Just, however, where the road disappeared,
hardly discernible among some old trees whose
widely spreading branches seemed to unite
ATCBEBLBY. 43
across the path, the roof of the farm-house
unostentatiously raised itself, almost from the
mossy colour which was its prevailing charac­
teristic mingling with the green around it,
and even scarcely to be separated by its tall
and dusky brick chimneys, which endeavoured
ambitiously to peer over the foliage, and as­
sert an independence which had been much
impaired by the lapse of time and the con­
sequent assimilation of colour which they
had sustained with surrounding natural ob­
jects.
The party turned into the cross-road, which
according to promise ran for some little dis­
tance in a parallel direction with the highway.
It serpentined gradually off, however, into
the country, but not before it had brought
our travellers to the back of the farm known
by the name of the *Rye House.’
The scene was pleasing and worth some de­
scription. To the right the hedge of the cross
road was so thick and overgrown that it quite
ATCUBBStEY.
concealed what might Immediately lay beyond
it. Aa the eye glanced up, however, il could
be seen that the country at some distance rose
broadly and steeply. Meadows of small ex­
tent, bordered with thick hedges, die gTass in
which was of the moat even and delicate tint
of emerald green, oocujned it, interspersed in
many places with patches of dark and strag­
gling wood, the silver stems of which seemed
traced on darkness, and dotted in many in­
stances with single trees or groups of three
and four, whose broad and sinewy trunks,
partly covered with velvet moss and partly
embossed with a fretwork of veins, proclaimed
their advanced age, and whose thick clouds of
leaves stiU announce! that they could adorn
and dignify the landscape.
The re a d in front, after gradually widening
and leaving its sides with patches of pale-
coloured grass, was edged on each aide by a
row of widely spreading trees, whose rustling
branches almost embowered the road and
ATCUERLEY. 45
greatly shadowed its deeply channeled surface.
Beyond this was a nnna.ll valley, running
diagonally between two gently doping emi­
nences, whose summitsandsides wen deepened
with wedge-like strips of wild and dark wood.
The road ran through this valley between high
and irregular banks, the shaggy, pendant fo­
liage on whose precipitous sides threw its
tough and twisting tendrils,oftencoilingaround
and tightly binding the mouldlese roots of
knotted and protruding stems, over the clayey
points and knobs of rock and the straggling
wild-looking herbage that patched the upper
portions of the rough and almost perpen­
dicular declivity.
On the left, some little distance from the
cross-road, was the old farm house, the face of
•which looked towards the highway on the
other side: but it might have been said to
have bad two fronts, for that in the rear was
little inferior to the true front, and had a
greater number of windows A wall and gates,
sufficiently ancient, separated the enclosure in
46 ATCHERLEY.
which it wa9 situated from th e ro a d ; and
leading down to th e gatew ay was a broad
avenue, some hundred yards in len g th , and
bordered by a stately double row of elm s and
beeches. These w ere now in full leaf, and
th eir clouds of leaves deeply shaded not only
the avenue, b u t the ground for some distance
on each side of it, and th e w all, and th e road
on which the wall looked.
The scene was romantic though particularly
solitary ; and the house itself seemed not only
to partake but in every sense of the word to
add to the melancholy. No sign of life was
to be discerned about it. The barking of no
dog was to be heard, giving notice to those
within of the approach of strangers, and
agreeably announcingtheneighbourhood of man
and hospitality, All was silent and desolate.
The house looked as if it had been entirely de­
serted, and the fitful wind, as it swept at long
intervals along the front of the house and
shook and rustled the huge branches of the
ATCHEBLEY. 47
trees, seemed the only thing gifted with the
power of action in it or in its neighbourhood.
This ancient farm-house was of large and
straggling dimensions, somewhat lofty, solidly
constructed, and disposed in the form of a
capital T. The two arms of the letter pointed
respectively to the east and west; and its
shank drew down towards the south. From
the extremities of the former and parallel
with the main part of the building there were
two old brick walls, battlemented at top, and
terminating in a pair of iron gates, whose
complicated filigrees had lost their original
well defined outline through the rust of many
years. These gates were fixed in square
piers of brick, dressed with mouldering stone,
one of which was connected with the wall ex­
tending from the arm of the T, and the other
with a corresponding one drawing out from its
foot. It will be consequently seen that the
walls thus disposed included in their areas two
spacious courts. In one of the latter w as an
48 ATCHERLSY.
iron column supporting a couple of lamps, and
in the other an ornamental pump. At each of
the four inward faces of the building—spring­
ing from a moulded parapet of heavy wood­
work—were three aspiring gables, whose
successive angles drew up into a small pedi­
ment, terminating in a tall pinnacle of wood
which ran down the face of the whole gable
and united with the first horizontal beam it
encountered. The roof was covered with ivy,
which not only fringed the antique chimney
shafts but depended from the parapets, and
ran along the fantastic zig-zags oftheir multi­
tudinous gable elevations.
The walls, constructed of briek and beams,
had changed the picturesque red of the former
and the chaste ash colour of the latter for the
universal russet a long exposure to country
“ Skyey influences."
invariably induces. Their outlines were round­
ed with numberless knots and patches of fresh
ATCHEBLEY. 49
or ancient moss — emerald, olive, pea, or
copperas green, or orange, or yellow in
colour, with the gloss of a thick pile velvet
— and their characteristic tints were all
sobered into keeping, and softened to and
blinded with the sylvan colours of the
landscape by the silent yet ever active
influence of time and the weather.
Nature has a characteristic antipathy to
new buildings. She sees they cannot — as
they originally stand—at all harmonize with
her landscapes. They must be mellowed down
to their prevailing spirit. The sharp angle,
the elaborate finish, the fresh, staring and
independent colour, assert a dominion in­
compatible with the wildness and inartificial
luxuriance of her kingdom, and seem to stand
alone—naked ungainly, and unpleasing as they
are—mocking all that owns a subjection to her
and spoiling all the beautieB that she may have
assembled together with their fresh and towuish
VOL. UL D
rcsHHt:
’so*
apearance. She seta to -work cauthrady jet
speedily — if her dominion is not likely to
be further broken in upon—in reducingthem
to the temper and spirit of all which owns her
rule. She presses the raimi the winds, and
the sunshine into her service, and by their
united efforts—aided by the sof ‘ j ejects
of the sympathetioeompansonsldp—ai» theyat­
tired in her livery and 'brought down to nni-
formity with all around them. Greened,
fringed and softened, are the obmndoos deni­
zens qualified to make a part of the landscape;
to terminate the sylvan vista, or ornament the
side of a grassy and thickly wooded hill. From
foes oM buildings are thus convened into the
fastest sod most useful of friends; mid the
success of the experiment has added even•
'grace to the thousand beauties of the nature
which no felicitously has wrought the transfor­
mation.
The latticed windows of the building «reie
what are termed in Gothic architecture spare-
atcheblet. 51
beaded. Bach was furnished with two mullions
and a transom, and crowned with a deeply in­
dented label or hood-moulding. The stone­
work was in every instance greened with the
first invasions of vegetation, and extensively
corroded. The whole building, in fact, pre­
sented more of the appearance of an oldEnglish
country mansion—sylvan-tinted, venerable and
solitary—than a farm-house that had indeed
long seen its best days, but that ought to have
had about it the signs of industry and the
proofs that it had a well-founded claim to the
title of farm house.
The barn-yard, which was on the left side,
though large seemed fast going to decay. The
gigantic barns looked like the ghosts of what
they once were, and stood in melancholy
silence falling gradually into ruin. The
thatch was not repaired; the huge doors
were falling from their hinges; the staples
and other fastenings were eaten up with
rust; the fences were overgrown with tan-
u 3
ATCHEELET#
gled bushes; and the area was choked op
with weeds. Nothing was in motion except
the tall grass, which waved to and fro,
and seemed more to attest the desolation
than any of the unatirring things which sur­
rounded it.
To render the scene still more dismal,
the sinking sun was blotted from the hea­
vens by a mass of clouds, whose dark grey
volume was rolled half over the sky
and shadowed the distant country to a consi­
derable distance, A lurid patch of red in
a ragged break of the clouds served to in­
dicate the sun’s position and destroy the
uniformity of the dull skies. Nothing dis­
turbed the deep and solemn silence except
the melancholy note of the blackbird and
the heavy sigh of the wind. The mansion
stood silent and solitary, seeming to vacantly
and cheerlessly return the glance of the
stranger. The country around looked it
if there was no human creature for m
iles:
ATCHERLEV. 53
the shadows of the trees added to the uni­
versal solemnity, and the gloom of the
heavens conspired to crown the whole with
an all-pervading heaviness, though the day
mu warm.
54 a tch su rt.
CHAPTER XIV.
“
*Cassius.—I think we are too bold upon your
rest:
Good morrow, Bratus; do we trouble you I
Brutus.—I bare been up this hour; awake, all
night.
Know I these men, that come along with you t
Cassius.—This is Trebonius.
Brutus—He is welcome hither.
Cassius.—This Deems Brutus.
Brutus.—He is welcome too.
Cassius.—This, Casea; this, Cinna;
And this, Metellus Cimber.
Brutus.—They are all welcome.”
Julitts Caesar. Act 2. Scene 1.
A tchehley and his companions, having ar­
rived at the gate, made good use of their
eyes in order to discover a means of making
ATCHKRLEY. 55
known their presence. The house to all ap­
pearance seemed uninhabited; bat Atcherley
was pretty eare that there wore those within
who were looking out for their arrival. After
considerable delay they found an-old bell, which
for acme tame refused to " sound, but at
last it sent it*prolonged and dismal notes to­
wards the ancient building. Its invasion of
the silenoe seemed an act of daring that bad
a singular efiect upon the nerves of those wlio
beard it Zt excited a sort of regret that
you had disturbed the den, and the eye eagerly
and almost fearfully glanced up tbe avenue,
expecting to see something come down of a
different character to what you bargained
for. A pause ensued of some duration* during
which the perfect silence was almost disagree-
able» The minutes passed on, and yet no
notice whatever seemed to have been taken- of
the arrival.
Having waited more than a sufficient time,
Atcher r again applied, his band to tbs bell.
5 6 ATCHEKLEY.
and this time made it give forth sound s which
startled his companions. The echoes died
away in the wood, and all became once more
silent as before.
At last the gate at the head of the avenue
was heard to distantly creak, and a figure was
to be distinguished coming gradually down.
With slow and cautious step this individual
advanced to the gate which led into the road,
and placing himselfon the other side, in hoarse
and deliberate accents he demanded the plea­
sure of those who waited without.
“ Master Oliver Rockingham,” said Atcher-
ley, “ can I not speak with him?”
“ I can bear a message to him, sir,’ was
the answer, “ if such should be your plea­
sure.”
“ I wish to speak with him in person,”
answered Atcherley. “ Open your gate and
let us in; he has for some time looked out for
our arrival.”
“ Master Rockingham is not at present in
XTCHEBtETf. 57
the house.” was the reply. “ Perhaps, sir,
you will entrust me with your name.”
" If Master Rockingham be not then at
the Rye House, be so good as to inform your
master,” rejoined Atcherley, “ that a friend of
both, William Atcherley by name, is waiting
at his gate for admission. He will direct thee to
open it,friend:—stay,” he continued,astheser­
vant was turning away, this will remove all
doubt.”—Saying these words he drew Rocking­
ham’s letter from his pocket and tore off the
four last lines. “ Carry this to Master Sum-
bald with my beat regards;—he will recognise
at a glance his friend’s handwriting.”
The man soon returned with compliments
from his master and orders to unclose the gate.
The latter turned heavily on its hinges, and
Atcherley, Roland, Horace Belford and Henry
Morton quickly entered. The gates were
then carefully locked, and the key recom­
mitted to the warder’s pocket.
A few minutes brought the party to the
58 ATCHERLKY.
bead of the avenue. The second gate was
also opened by the attendant, who, desiring
die party to wait, disappeared in order to
seek some one to lead the horses to the stables.
He soon returned, and with him a coun­
tryman, to whom with an air of authority
be gave the necessary directions. Agreeably
to their purport, the horses’ bridles were
thrown over the man’s arm, and the unoc-
cupied hand guided the animal which drew
the carriage. The clatter of their hoofs soon
sunk into silence, and the whole of the party
crossed the weedy court to the only entrance
on the western side of the house.
Entering by this door, and conducted by
the servant, Atcherley, Boland, and their two
friends crossed a hall of some size, but sadly
neglected and falling fast to decay. On one
side was a heavy staircase which wound
broadly up, and on the other were several
doors. Instead of opening any of the latter,
the conductor of the party turned into a pas-
ATCHEHLEY. 6 9
sage opposite, and arriving at its extremity
knocked at a wide oaken door banded with
iron and otherwise well scoured The knock
was answered by a person inside, who, hearing
the voice of his servant, drew the only bolt
which held the door, and quickly opened it.
Ushered by the man who had conducted them,
Atcherley, Boland, Horace Belford and Henry .
Morton entered the apartment The door
immediately closed behind them, and the ser­
vant disappeared.
The room wasspacious and lofty. Its walls
were of panelled oak, its roof was supported
by cross beams, and the floor was uncovered.
A couple of wide oriels, fitted with lattices and
commanding a view of the road, the woodlands
and thecountry opposite, gave lightto theapart­
ment,whichwasmorecomfortablyfurnishedthan
the exterior of the house appeared to promise^
Bound the walls were settles and high-
backed chain of walnut, well supplied with
woollen cushions, and wreathed and carved
with considerable ingenuity. The huge fin-
no ATCHERLEY.
place was on one aide, and was ornamented
with a multitude of dwarf columns, geome­
trical cornices and panels of foliage—all now
black as ebony through age, though industri­
ously polished.
In the centre of the chimney-piece, sur­
rounded with foliated grotesques, were the
arms of the then proprietor of the house,
charged, mottoed and crested. They were
placed in consequence in the most conspicuous
situation the room could afford; for gathered
around the fire on a winter’s day, or examining
the ancient carvings of the chimney every
person must see them. A row of pegs was on
the other side of the room, flanking an ancient
ebony press in which was a somewhat costly
display of old china, eccentrically fashioned
plate, and various cariosities. These pegs were
now occupied with steeple-crowned bats, some
with bands, some plain, some with feathers;
and some puritanically destitute of ornament,
with cloaks of furious colours, buff gloves, ra-
ATCHEKLEY. 61
piers, matchlocks and petrooels. Veiling the
window were crimson draperies, and hanging
from the ceiling was a lamp of bronze,
Nor was the apartment less well furnished
with living occupants. There were six or
eight men disposed about it, exclusive of the
person who had opened the door, some of
whom were sitting down, some conversing in
under tones, and one or two looking out of
window. They were principally attired in a
sober fashion, being dressed in russet, murrey
or slate colour doublets or jerkins, dark-co­
loured gttlleygaskins, black or sad-colour stock­
ings, and brown riding-boots. One or two of
the number carried swords; but the majority
of their weapons were in different parts of the
room.
Rumbald, the owner of the house, was a
tall man of broad proportions and large fea­
tures. His countenance was dark and weather­
beaten, and his hair brown in colour, a ittle
sprinkled with grey. He was dressed in an
ATCHEBI.ET.
olive green jerkin, galleygaskins and stockings
of similar hoe, shoes with buckles and roses, a
broad buff belt, decorated with gilded tags,
rapier, sash and starched band. His visage
was determined though not ill-natured in ex­
pression, and his voice though deep was not
inharmonious.
The deportment of our travellers on entering
the room and seeing the persons in it was ma­
terially different. Atcherley advanced with
his usual observing smile and easy composure.
Boland’s step was quicker, his eye glanced
round him with curiosity and seemed to
scan the appearance of the new society into
which he was thrown. Horace Belford en­
tered with hesitation, and furtively though
eagerly examined each face round him. On
completing his scrutiny he lost his embarrass­
ment, and resumed his usual gay and unpre­
occupied demeanour. Henry Morton, how­
ever, kept his eyes fixed upon the ground, and
ATCHERLEY. 63
■ought to avoid observation by getting behind
his courtly companion.
“ I have to welcome,” said Bnmbald, “ se­
veral very good friends I have no doubt.
Staunch and true, politic like thyself, Mr. At-
cherley, and steadfast like our excellent con­
federate, Master Oliver Rockingham. Pity
that he is not here to receive thee 1
”
“ Your man,” said Atcherley, “ intimated
that he was not with you. I was disap­
pointed.”
“ My man’s information was correct,” re­
joined Rumbald. “ But we ought not to re­
gret Rockingham’s absence since it will mate­
rially assist us. He plays the part of a look-out,
and is this moment at Newmarket. He will
return however to-night, or at latest early
to-morrow.”
“ I see bis drift and partly approve of it,”
answered Atcherley. “ He determined to
take the service upon himself; it required no
ordinary prudence, and I think he has as much
64 ATCHEHLET.
of that very excellent quality as most men, 1
am right ?”
“ You are,” returned Bumbald.” The de­
sign was of his own proposing, and he offered
to put it in execution himself. We shall have
nothing to do for eight days yet. Charles
has not yet set out—his return, so far as this,
will not be doubtful—any further—”
.“ You will not guarantee him, Master
Rumbald. I believe we perfectly understand
each other. I bring some friends whom you
have only to know to be pleased with. Allow
me to introduce them to the company. Our
band is as one, though its members may have
been scattered; ’tis fit that they should be as
united in friendship as they are in purjiose
Gentlemen, Sir Boland Torrington stands be­
fore you."
At this announcement there was a murmur
of approval.
Each of the company advanced, fixed his
eyes on Boland, and politely bowed.
ATCHERLEY. 65
“ Baronet,” continued Atcherley, “ of Tor-
rington in Derbyshire. From his youth up
have his principles been those which have
brought us forward. Approving of our de­
signs from first to last, be is prepared heart
and hand to advance as we advance, fight as
we fight, pluck down what we shall pluck
down, and restore that, the restoration of
which has been, is, and shall be our guiding
principle. Admitted to the confederation by
Master Oliver Rockingham of Longwood, the
most anxious doubter must be satisfied both
of his faith and eligibility. Gentlemen, I have
the honour of calling Sir Roland an early and
a steadfast friend.”
“ We welcome him as we welcome thee,”
said Rumbald; an expression of kindness which
was seconded by all the company.
Atcherley next took the hand of Horace
Belford. The blush which mounted to Ho-
race’s cheek at being thus brought forward
ATCHEBUKY.
was deep, Hastily he bowed in acknowledg­
ment of the welcome of the company.
“ This, gentlemen,” continaed Atoherley,
tl is MasterHomoe Bdford, a* individual upon
whose faith yon will be- able to place the
greater defniaianoe when I tell yon that be
was obliged.with a commaaieiitiou of import­
ancedir®**from oat upright and valued,friend,
Master Oliver Rockingham, to myself. He
joined me on the road, and will remain base
until our intentions am earned into effect
His family is noble, and his principles are
honest By and bye he will prove every way
a valuable adbesent. Gentlemen, he is wel­
come.”
“ He is,” returned all without station.
“ This young pemoo,” said Ateherley,care­
lessly, “ is a foster-brother of Master Bdford’
a
He is attached to his fartonee and acts aa Us
attendant The fidelity with which he follows
his master will be the beet guarantee both of
his faith and compliance. Henry Morton, you
can be both secret and discreet?’
A ffC inaLET. 67
“ I hope that I can, air,” said Henry, though
in subdued tones.
“ You will pledge yourself, Master Horace,”
said Ateherley, taming towards him, “ for the
fidelity of yoar dependant.”
*
* I will most solemnly,” said Horace; “ ho
is aa myself. Kay more—”
“ More is unnecessary,” interrupted Atcher-
ley. “ Gentleman all,” continued he, address*
ing tiie circle. “ I doabt me not tint you am
• I satisfied.”
“ We are—we are,” was the ready answer.
- “ It now only remains,” said Ateherley, ad­
dressing himself in a frank sort of manner to
Rumbald, “ that you should make us all ac­
quainted—I mean myself and my three friends
—with onr good friends and fellow labourersin
the room.”
“ I’ll do so and gladly,” answered Rumbald
with alacrity. “ Gentlemen, please to advance.
In the first place you most allow me to an­
nounce myself me# I am to introduce others*
Gentlemen, my name is Rumbald. I am owaef
of this house, a friend to liberty and the laws,
and abhorrer of tyranny and Popery ; an En­
glishman not only in name and by birth but
in heart and soul. I hope to be one of the
foremost in the fight in which we are about to
engage, prompt in council, prompt in action,
first in the avowal of the opinions that we
intend to maintain, and last in their recanta­
tion. So much for myself. This, gentlemen,’’
continued he, pointing to the nearest of the
company, “ is Lieutenant-Colonel Walcot, an
officer not only of courage and reputation but,
what is better, of the most ardent and liberal
principles—uncompromising and unflinching in
every respect. Next him, gentlemen, is
Colonel Rumsey; an officer not a whit inferior
to the worthy man whom I’ve just mentioned
—bold, resolute and politic. Next him is
Master West, whom I will back for as good a
professor and expounder of the laws as any in
the United Kingdom; Master West is the
ATCHBRtE*. 69
Chancellor of our confederation. After him,
gentlemen, comes Master Gkiodenough, Under
Sheriff of the City of London j zealous for
the cause, and of tried faith and experience.
This is a brother in the word and faithful
Soldier of Zion of the name of Ferguson. To
him we have committed the management of
the City of London, and well has he hitherto
discharged the trust. These gentlemen are
named, Keiling, Holloway, Bourne and Lee:
all men of spirit and honesty.*
* The council of six who originated and managed
the chief conspiracy, were the Duke of Monmouth,
Earl of Essex, Lord William Russel, Lord Howard,
Algernon Sidney and John Hampden. The subor­
dinate conspirators were Colonel Rumsey, (who had
served in Portugal and was recommended to th«
King by Mareschal Schomberg), Lieutenant-Colonel
Walcot, (an old republican officer,) West, Tyley,
Norton, and Ayloffe, (lawyers), Ferguson, (an Inde­
pendent clergyman), Holloway, (a merchant of Bris­
tol,) lum bald, (a maltster,) and Rouse, Hone>
Keiling, Bourne, Lee, and one or two others, (mer­
chants or tradesmen of London.)
TO ATCBKBLCT.
J j (lieir names wen sucoee-ively mentioned,
# bowed, the courtesy being duly acknow­
ledged by Atcherley and bis fellow travellers.
These introduotions -all over, the majority of
the party took chain and seated themselves*
“ Travellers always are or ought to be hun­
gry,” raid Rumbald to Atcherley. “ We will
older something for you. Expecting so
great an addition to my household, I have
taken care of my larder. We will have
refreshments served in another room,
where I will introduce yen to my better
half. She will be delighted at so agree­
able an addition to our circle. Come, gentle­
men; be pleased to follow me."
Saying this Master Rumbald led the way out
of the room. He conducted his visiters to an
upper apartment, where -they found Mis.
Rumbald diligently employed in needlework.
She was about forty years of age, with a
good matured expression of countenance and a
somewhat voluble tongue. It was not long
71
-Mon ilie 'made herself wett acquainted with
mi the travellers. The coaveraatiofi was kept
tip with considerable spirit until the refrcab-
nientsarrived; which in character and quantity
told well for the solid hospitality of the man­
sion. Better influences seemed to preside over
the interior of the house than might, from its
chill and melancholy outside, have been antici­
pated. The cheer was good, the invitation to
partake of it was both hearty and sincere, and
the behaviour ofBumbald and his wife towards
their friends, though deferential, was cordial
and prepossessing. Boland was indeed much
more pleased with the society into which his
co-operation in Bockingham’s designs had
thrown him, than he had expected to be.
Thecharacter ofthe conspiracywas notwholly
Puritanical, though several of the members of
it, Bockingham included, had an absolute
bias that way. They all agreed however in
one particular, and that was the love of liberty.
The eyes with which they looked upon the
king, the court, and the ministry, were those
iO
'
atchkbley.
of the mostunmingled hatred; and the deae­
rate measures into which the; had entered, were
the fullest and most natural evidence of their
abhorrence.
ATCHEHLBY. 73
CHAPTER V.
“Adozen of them here hare ta’enthe sacrament,
Andinterchangeably set down their hands
Tokill the king at Oxford.
Were he twentytimesmy son,
I wouldappeach him.”
Richard II. Act v. Scene 2.
“It shall go hard
But I will delve one yard belowtheir mine,
And blow them at themoon.”
Hamlet. Act i. Scene 4.
We must now ask the reader to accompany
us to Newmarket. The Bang was at this
time resident there. It was on his way
to this place that the conspirators had settled
7 4 ATCHERLEY.
to lie in wait for him. He was to speedily
set out, but was not expected to return for
aome'time. On the eighth day from the pre­
sent the conspirators hoped to put their design
in execution.
The house in which the King lived stood
at some distance from the town. It was an
old-fashioned brick edifice, stretching out into
wings, and abounding in gables aud oriels.
On three sides it was surrounded with stately
old trees, which partly concealed the house
and t^lded much to the solemnity of its appear­
ance. Before its front were three antique
successive terraces, approached by wide flights
of steps, and ornamented with vases, statues,
globes and heraldic insignia in stone. Jets
(Teem murmured in its gardens, the walks of
which were mathematically disposed and
smoothly gravelled. The shadows of the fine
old trees, the lulling noire mad plashes of the
fountains, the sunshine chequering the bright
green smooth-shaven lawns, and the old red
ATCMSHLEY. 7 5
brick walls and latticed windows discernible
through the masses of wood in the middle
distance, disposed the mind to repose or con­
templation, and bore an expression of old-
fashioned picturesque solemnity that in-
teiested and delighted the observer.
At the present moment, however, the sum­
mer twilight was fast declining into darkness.
The distant trees began to look blue _and
gloomy through the calm, clear atmosphere.
There was but very little wind, and the leaves
only murmured as the gentle breeze agitated
them. The walks, the lawns and the building
were growing indistinct; and only one or two
persons were seen to move about the now
almost deserted gardens. Around was a belt
of gigantic forest trees, looking like an as­
semblage of large and gloomy cloud?. Their
silver trunks could now only be faintly dis­
cerned, as well as the many romantic vistas
which drew into distance between them.
Nothing could be seen beyond this stately
e 3
ATCHEBLET.
mass of foliage; the shades of night seemed
already to rest upon their semieirealar oat*
lines, and they stood out well defined on the
pnre though deeply tinted blue of the sky in
the west.
“ It was the hour, when fromthe boughs
The nightingale’s soft note is heard;
It was the hour, whenlover’s vows
Seemsweet in everywhispered word;
And gentle windsand watersnear
Make music to the lonely ear.
Each flowerthe dewshadlightly wet,
And in the skies the starswere met,
And on each leafa browner hue
And on the lake was deeperblue,
And, in the heavens, that clearobscure.
So softly dark, and darkly pure,
That follows the decline of day,
As twilight melts beneath the moon away.”
The moon, indeed, was rising yellowly and
pensively over the dark and distant wood. As
-ts bread disc circled slowly up, a spiritlike
radius of light gradually diffused itself around
ATCHEKLEY. 7?
it, and mallei the deep blue in its pale and
softening illumination. No token of man was
to be discovered except when lights would be
seen to flit across the windows of the old
mansion, dark and dreary as it now appeared.
Sometimes the lights passed quickly away, and
at others they would pause in the windows
and gleam brightly out of the surrounding
blackness.
Taking the great walk that led to the man­
sion which at the present moment boasted
Royalty as an occupant, and ascending the
broad stone steps which introduced a person
approaching the house to the successive ter­
races before it, a figure was to be distinguished
wrapped closely in a mantle. He walked
slowly and steadily on until he neared the
principal entrance. At this point he stopped,
and seemed to consider of his further move­
ments. The deliberation was not long, for be
turned off to the right, and passing along the
upper terrace at the right side of the building.
78 A n y r n t t w * W
glided Into the darkness of a semi-Gothic
gateway that stood midway between the ends
of the mansion, and he disappeared in a short
collonade, at the end of which, facing the
gateway, was an obscure door.
In tbit place was a bell-handle and wire,
which depended from the groined ceiling of
the collonade. The stranger put his hand to
the bell, and gently rang it. The door was
quickly unclosed, and a small though hand­
some hall waa distinguishable, lighted by a
git lamp which hung from an architectural
ceiling. The stanger advanced without cere­
mony into the hall, and deliberately tamed
towards the man who had admitted him. The
broad rim of his beaver was so disposed as to
Blant across his face, and little of his features
could be therefore seen. His mantle also con­
cealed the proportions of his form, though
there were a dignity and courtlike ease in
his manner that announced he was above the
ordinary rank.
ATCHEBLEY. 79
To the porter’s whispered and -respectful
demand of Mb name and business, the stranger
condescended no other reply than the putting
a card in a cover into his hand. The envelope
of the latter was of a fine quality, gilt-edged
and perfumed.
“ What does your lordship wish I should
do with this?” asked the attendant.
“ Nonsense, man, you have mistaken me,
I am no lord," answered the stranger. “ Do
me the service to carry this to the gentleman
in waiting, and reqdfest him to present it in
the royal closet. The answer will be quick,
and I will wait here till it be given me.”
“ Allow me to ask you, sir,” said the ser­
vant, “ to wait in this apartment until I have
delivered my message.” As he spoke he
opened a door to the left, and requested the
stranger to follow. The gentleman complied,
desiring him only to be speedy.
The latter had taken but few turns in the
apartment before the door softly opened and
ATCHE8LEY.
the attendant re-appeared. The stranger
stopped instantly in his walk, and cast his eyes
on tho servant.
“ I am commanded, sir, to request your pre­
sence in the royal closet. His Majesty is
alone, and desires to Bpeak with you. I will
have the honour of conducting you to the
ante-chamber.
In obedience to this direction the stranger,
ushered by the attendant, re-entered the ball,
passed down a corridor opposite the entrance
of the hall, ascended a staircase of oak, the
balustrades of which were gilt ; and on arrival
at the first story he proceeded down a wide
and richly ornamented gallery till he came
to the entrance of the ante-chamber. In this
room he was passed over to a gentleman in
waiting, who with the same obsequious de­
ference as the inferior officer conducted him
across the apartment into an audience chamber,
and from thence to the door of the Eng’s
closet.
ATCHEBLEY. 8 1
A gentle knock at the door was answered
by a come in” from the interior. In obe-
dience to this command the door was slowly
unclosed, and the gentleman in waiting, bowing
profoundly, introduced the stranger to the
royal presence. He then withdrew with the
same obeisance, and silently shut the door.
The apartment was not large, though it was
very lofty, and extremely rich in its decorations*
The walls were tapestried with crimson
damask, fringed and bound with silk of the
same colour, lined with milk white sarsnet
and looped up with cords and tassels of
gold. Over the doors of which there were
two, one opening into the audience chamber
and the other into the king’s retiring room,
and invarious other convenient situations were
several pictures of great value, the work of
Italian Spanish, and Flemish artists, in exceed­
ingly rich and massive gold frames. The ceil­
ing was of a rich fawn colour, fretted into so
e 5
82 ATCHEBLEY.
many foliated lozenges and abounding with so
many picturesque complexities!, the gilding of
which glittered like a network, that the eye
was dazzled with its multitudinous ramifica­
tions and unable without much attention to
understand its details. A Persian carpet was
upon the floor, looking like a brilliant mosaic,
edged out to the wall with thick crimsondoth.
The panels and mouldings of the doors were
richly gilt, and in the gorgeous style of Louis
Quatorze; the whole apartment and furniture,
in short, was in that eccentric though cer­
tainly magnificent taste. Each pannel pre­
sented a different group, or landscape, finished
with the most singular art and a gem in itself.
The handles of the doors were of ivory; the
unoccupied portions of the doors were deli­
cately coloured and highly varnished.
Light was admitted into the apartment by
two bay windows, with grilles or lattices of
brass lozenge work. Part of the glass of these
ATCHERLEt. 8 3
was colouredand embellished with the arms and
various devices of the luxurious monarch.
They were however now concealed by silken
draperies of crimson, the folds of which were
disposed with the utmost elegance. Cornides
were above of massive gold, manufactured in
the prevailing taste, and of the most elaborate
workmanship.
The furniture consisted of couches and
chairs of wreathed ebony inlaid with gold,
and provided with seats and cushions of crim­
son damask with silken tassels at the corners;
tables of the richest wood, mounted in ormolu;
with red, amber, and green marble slabs; em­
broidered ottomans, cabinets of ebony and
inlaid work with gold mounting, or of ivory
and silver, vases of foreign china gorgeously
painted and gilt, mirrors ofthe clearest surface
in frames of foliated gold, and cases of books
of small size in the most splendid bindings.
Two or three foreign singing birds of the
most brilliant plumage were in cages of gold.
AICBJBILBY.
From the celling depended a chandelier of
©rmolu. The most delicate perfumes, too,
were exhaling in thin blue wreaths of vapour
from censers of silver. The whole apartment
was redolent of the luxury and extravugaaee
that characterised the time, and particularly
the weak and profligate monarch who then
sat upon the throne of England.
Charles himself was no bad personification
of the magnificence that reigned around him.
He was seated in an easy chair of green mo*
roeco; his attitude was negligent though
graceful, and his whole appearance languid
mid nonchalant. His features, though harsh,
had something in them distinguished; and the
smile which carted his lip was of a good
natured and insinuating character. The ex­
pression of his countenance was attractive and
aristocratic j possessing little majesty, bat
much of an easy and polished dignity. His
dark complexion and lively, familiar eyes gave
a manly and agreeable expression to the oon-
ATCHEHLEY. 85
tour of his face, and intimated that he was
not often disinclined to forget the sovereign
in the companion. His shape was good, and
it was well set off by the symmetrical cut of
his habiliments. To sum up his appearance
in a few words, it was good-natured without
being precisely friendly; highly polished with­
out being affected; dignified without being
kingly; and prepossessing without, laying
hold of respect. The traces of age and dissi­
pation could be detected in the strongly
marked lines of his face; and he looked in
every expression and gesture the beau ideal
of a roui, but an elegant one, fast verging
into age and its consequent decrepitude.
His attire was rich and becoming. He
wore a frock of ribbed white silk, the seams
of which were broadly laced with gold. The
full sleevesof this garment were slashed .to the
elbow, and fully displayed the bright crimson
lining. The shoulder points were thickly
decorated with gold laces and a profusion of
glittering tags. His nether garments were
ample, and of the same colour as the frock,
i. they were slashed likewise from the waist to
the knee, bound with gold, studded with
quivering tags, nnd displaying at their sides
the rich crimson silk lining. A shoulder sash
of crimson crossed his breast, beneath which
was a belt of gold in which his Parisian
rapier was usually carried; at present however
it lay upon the table. Silk hose were upon
his legs, one of which was dignified with the
kingly Garter; these joined his galley-gaskins
a little below the knee, which jingled with a
circle of bright gold tags. Slippers of scarlet
morocco were at present upon his feet, mounted
and ornamented with crescents of gold. A
low-crowned, broad-brimmed velvet hat, with
luxuriant plumes of the purest white, was
upon the table; besides which were also a pair
of the gloves in vogue, trimmed with lace,
an inlaid inkstand, a lamp of silver with two
burners, two or three miniature cases, designs
ATCHERLKY. 87
for additions to some of the royal residences,
essence bottles, gili books, and several other
matters of a different though not less miscel­
laneous nature.
Charles himself on the entrance of his
visiter was carelessly occupied in examining
a military drawiag, setting forth a new design
for the dress of his Life Guards. But his notice
was of that easy, desultory kind, which plainly
indicated his attention was roving to a variety
of subjects. Sometimes he would rub his
chin and gaze listlessly at the ceiling ; some­
times he would give a quick and impatient
glance at his even-burning lamp; and some­
times he would gently stroke his temples and
then resume the examination. We must not
forget, too, that His Majesty wore a glossy and
luxuriant wig, that struck full fifteen years
off his age, and greatly assisted in improving
his countenance.
As his visiter paused on recognising who
was in the apartment, the King raised his
88 ATCBEBLEY.
eyes m i greeted him with a bland though
self-complacent smile. He perceived at once
who had epught the audience ; and as the
party entering approached the light, the King
welcomed with much condescension no less
important a person than William Atcherley.
“ Ah I Master Atcherley,” saiJ Charles,
without raising himself from hia recumbent
posture,’ “ you typify the night. Had yon
an attention of rivalling its blackness when
you donned so dingy a dress?”
“ So please your majesty," said Atcherley
quietly, “ those who seek a good turn from
the night ought to flatter its characteristic
humours. Like a true friend I paired m
y
outside to its countenance; and my courtesy
will be repaid by its keeping my movements
secret. Something may be gained even from
such negative flattery.”
“ Aha! so you make out,” said Charles,
■
■that nature is not insensible to a compliment
She reflects her foible upon her fairest works,
ATCHERLEY. 89
who, to tell a truth, but seldom are. You
need carry your diffidence no farther; and so
we request you to throw off your outer cover­
ing. You were wise in preserving your
incognito m far.’’
**Trusting to your majesty’s pardon, 1 have
continued it to your majesty's presence,” said
Atcherley.
u Right—right—and very good,” continued
Charles. “ Your closer attire I however per­
ceive well excuses you. Upon my honour.
Master Atcherley, you almost shame my
tailorage: the rainbow is best seen upon a
black background—a thick cloud, and your
gaieties display themseves to most advantage
when exhibited frombeneath the murkiness of a
dark-coloured mantle. Do me the honour of
seating yourself. Master Atcherley; here is
variety of accommodation.”
“ I crave your majesty’s pardon,” returned
Atcherley. “ I could not think of seating
myself in your majesty’s presence. I could
9 0 ATCHBRLKY.
not permit myself the honour even though
commandedby yourmajesty, and I shall be able
to perhaps best make my communication when
unconfounded with the condescension, even
supposing that I could so forget myself a3
to accept it.”
“ Pshaw! Master Atcherley,” rejoined the
King, “ thou art over nice and not over
wise. Upon our royal honour I cannot talk
to thee if thou standest. To use .1 very un-
kingly phrase, which you will excuse, your
compliance with this nonsensical punctilio will
give me the fidgets. Sit down, man! sit
down! and make no more words about so
very simple a matter.*’
Charles spoke in so good natured and friendly
a manner that his words could not fail of
pleasing his hearer.
“ Your majesty is too good; bat as 1 would
not be party to giving your majesty one mo­
ment’s uneasiness, I will in one instance do
violence to my sense of propriety.”
ATCBJBUtiET, 91
Saying these words Atcherlcy seated himself
with a respectful coolness that showed the
condescension no way disconcerted him, and
that he was prepared to receive much greater
honour with indifference.
“ Ah h o w ,” said Charles, “ you look a little
more in character with our room. Your
cloudy cloak has blackened my imagination.
Do pray reserve it for the funeral of your
most respected friend, but never, while we
have the honour of occasionally seeing you,
bring it here. My house will turn methodis-
tical if it be again displayed within it. It as
little agrees with your countenance. Master
Atcherley, which I don’t flitter you in say­
ing is •comely’, as the Puritans call it, as »
black cloud agrees with a blue sky, or a white
garment with a pale complexion. But wis­
dom cannot always be particular. I hope
nothing of importance gives us the pleasure
of your company to-night, Master Atcherley.”
“ I would never intrude myself,” said At
ATCHERLEY.
cherley,if matters of importance concerning
your majesty's welfare did not force me to
attract your majesty’s notice.”
“ Our welfare!” echoed Charles, “ I am
obliged to thee, disinclined as thou art to
seek my presence. For the anxiety of my
friends on my account 1 ought to feel grate*
fill and I do so. What is in the wind now ?”
“ Mach, your majesty, that bodes ill,” re*
plied Ateherley, “ but by the blearing of God
we will avert it.”
“ Amen! A m en! with all my heart and
soul 1
” returned the monarch. “ You say the
wind is bringing a cloud; of what shape may
the latter be?’
“ We must take pattern from the mariner,
your majesty,* said Ateherley, “ and bring the
danger down. We will pierce the cloud and
force it to spend its perils on the invulnerable
deep. I have been the first to descry the
danger, let me, yonr mnjesty, be the first to
apply the match."
ATCHERLEY. 93
“ Thou art a steady, careful and most ever-
waking watchman, Master Atcherley,” said
the King, “ and thou shalt be the first to
alarm the slumbering citizens. But they may
at first be apt to d---- n you for knocking at
their doorB I”
“ When the danger is more dearly under­
stood they will thank me for my interference.
Their well-being is aimed at in the peril which
threatens their--------”
“ What 1 have we another Popish plot ?”
exclaimed the monarch, is Prince the<word
with which you would finish ? Are not the
idiots yet satisfied, or will they tempt the lion
till he bites their heads off? Come, I see I
must lick the dust from my eyes!”
“ No, no, your majesty,” returned At-
cherley, “ there is no occasion for your
majesty to put yourself out of the way: I
have let this danger work to a head, and we
can therefore the easier crash it.”
“ Ah! Master Atcherley,” said the King,
ATCHBBLEV.
“ we should have trodden down this matter
in the bud. Strange that none but yourself
should h:ive perceived it! Here are some score
of watchmen entertained by my people—you
know whom I mean, Master Atcherley; our
ministry, those to whom we have, with every
confidence that they would do right, committed
the administration of justice and the well­
being of our children, for we consider our
subjects our children—fellows paid out of our
purse, maintained by our bounty, and up­
held by our authority; and yet not one
of these pendant men—these hangers on—
these ivy tendrils to our trunk has even smelt
out that a mischief was brewing, blind as
they might have been to the nature of it. By
Jupiter! Master Atcherley, I should have
been dead long ago if I had not placed such
cheveaux-de-frise around my throne,rotten wood
as they have proved in this instance, to E
te.
Tall as our throne is, we are obliged to hedge
it in from the approach of reptiles and creeping
Google
ATCHERLET. 9 5
things who though they could not scale our
seat may yet slime the steps. Besides a
malicious blow from without might tumble
down the statue though the pedestal remained
upright; my crown might roll in the dust
though my seat would remain for another to
step into. My life has been too often aimed
at before, for me to think it now so strange a
thing.”
“ And some such aiming, your m ajeB ty ,”
said Atcherley, “ has brought me hither now.
But we shall be able to make the evil recoil
upon the heads of those who have planned it j
the work is easy, and it only requires decision
and promptness in action. These treasons are
easily thwarted; what does a good soldier do
when he perceives that the enemy is mining
towards him? Your majesty, he counter­
mines, and blows up _his antagonist in the
ruins of his scheme. Oh there is no joy so ,
intense as seeing your enemy fall by the ma-
96 ATCHBRUTC.
dine he intended for your destruction! It is
Shakspeare himself who has said
“ For ’tis the sport to hare the engineer
Hoist with his own polar
and he is right; the observation is deep; there
is in nature that peculiar joy. Your majesty’s
safety is committed to those who, though zea­
lous, are inefficient.”
“ Odd’sfish, I think you’re right, Master
Atcherley! So long as the fellows get their
penny they care little for the service. I am
bound to you, my good friend, in many in­
stances. I shall be glad of an opportunity to
show my gratitude.”
“ I beg your majesty will not mention it,”
answered Atcherley, with honest haste; “ I
do, in truth. I have no intention to angle for
your majesty’s favour. My regard for your
majesty’s person is unmixed and unalloyed
ATCHEBLEY. 97
with the hope of reward. What I have done
I hare done, candidlyand straightforwardly. I
am bound to keep an eye over your majesty’s
safety, and Xhope I shall never flinch from the
duty.”
" Say no more, Mr. Atcherley, say no more,”
answered Charles; “ you have already given me
proofs of your sincerity and loyalty. I do
believe in my soul that you are as attached to
our well-being, as we would wish all our sub­
jects ! We are obliged to say wish and all; for
you yourself bring me the unwelcome intelli­
gence that we have some ill-willers in the
community.”
“ So few they are that they scarcely deserve
your majesty should give a second thought to
them; but a shaftfrom the vilestbow—launched
by a hand that fled from the very sight of the
chase—may chance to pierce the noblest stag.
Great things sometimes fall by little means.
Your majesty, we will matter the evil I have
had the good fortune of discovering and, tread
VOL. HL F
ATCHEBLEY.
upon tbe worm that baa presumed to raise bis
sting against your majesty.”
“ Well said. Master Atcherley,” said the
King. “ Yonrs shall be the heel that treads
upon this worm, and I will shod it with the
iron. Well, we will see now to business; by
your leave, Master Atcherley, we will ex*
amine this direful matter, and plan its coun­
teraction.”
As the King spoke he raised himself from
his recumbent position, drew his chair closer
to the table, and invited Atcherley to do the
like. Atcherley rose, and with an enviable
sang /raid deliberately drew his seat nearer to
the King.
“ Your majesty, X will communicate this
matter standing,” said he.
“ Standing f Out upon your ill-timed deli­
cacy I” exclaimed the King, “ sit, sit. Master
Atcherley 1 you give me a great deal of trouble
with your politeness. Fancy me now some­
body planning an escape from execution: your-
ATCHERLEY. 9 9
selfthe good fellowwhohas gained access to us.
Come you must furnish me with the ropeladder
to scale the walls with of my Doubting Castle.
By the bye our talk must be serious, and I can
be serious sometimes on matters of less mo­
ment. Do us the pleasure of handing us yon­
der bottle of essences. Master At—Atcher—
what’s your name ?”
“ Atcherley, m please your majesty,” an­
swered Atcherley.
" Atcherley—it is a well-sounding appella­
tion ; by the way, what may be your Christian
name ?”
“ My first name, so please your majesty, is
an old-fashioned one, it is William.”
“ William, William, is it?” repeated the
King, “ William Atcherley, Sir William At­
cherley—the name would sound well. Are
not you of my opinion, Mr. Atcherley ?
“ Only partly in this instance, so please
your majesty,” returned Atcherley; the name
F 3
'
.
i
,
,
!
:
!
"
:
:
;
,
100 * ^ M L y y .
is too long already—too unworthy—to be
lengthened.”
“ We will see—we will see,” said the King.
“ Are yon not in oar service ? I can discern
the military cut about you.”
“ So please your majesty,” answered At-
cherley,” “ I have not either the honour or
the gratification of serving your majesty. My
commission runs in the German language and
is dated from Vienna.”
MAha! is it so?” cried the King; “ so you
sport the white jerkin and scarlet ribbands ?
Would not the scarlet colour alone do as well?
How came yon to enter the service of His Im­
perial Majesty?”
“ The story is long, destitute of interest,
and might be tedious just now to your ma­
jesty.”
“ H a! ha 1
”answered Charles with a friendly
laugh,” well thought of! We’ll have it ano­
ther time; so now to bnaneta. Before w
e
ATCSEU.B7. 101
begin, however, we will have something to
chase the devils from our imagination; these
plots are Hydras, cat off one head and ten
rise in its place; they chase away our brighter
thoughts like fiends from the Inferno. It is
not worth while to trouble our folks in wait­
ing; stretch your hand. Master Atoherley, to
the piece of furniture behind you. You will
find upon it a liqueur of singular quality—the
most obedient and comfortable gentleman in
waiting we can boast of; he opens his heart
with the utmost candour, and gives me the
sweetest advice; verily a most unexceptionable
privy-councillor I Bring ns the angel in wait­
ing—the ministering spirit—and a couple of
recipients.”
According to his order Atoherley rose, and
placed a richly-cut flask, filled with scintil­
lating yellow liquid, and two tall glasses on
the table.
The King opened the bottle, poured out a
ATCHBHLET.
bumper, and then pushed over the flask to
Atcherley.
Atcherley saw that to be over delicate would
be inapplicable to Hia Majesty’s present gra­
cious and familiar mood. He was too keen
and sagacious a politician to interrupt the
current even with a straw. He filled hii
glass, but before raising it to his lips hequietly
arid—
“ Here’s to your majesty’s long and unin­
terrupted health and safety!”
“ We thank you. Master Atcherley,” re­
turned the monarch; “ the wish is a goodone,
and worthy of your long-tried loyalty. W
ell,
having thus fortified our souls against all evil
influences—devils, plots, and treasonable m
a­
chinations—
having thus purified the suitor-
tainted atmosphere with celestial fire, wew
ill
brave these giants that ore buckling on their
armour for the attack. Don’t you thiol,
Master Atcherley, that we shall be able to
split their shieldsfor them, eh?”
ATCBEULBY. 103
*
*Aye, your majesty,” returned Atcherley,
“ and drill their breastplates,”
" H a ! ha! ha!” laughed Charles, “ we must
play the mousetrap with the cunning vermin ;
the idiots little suspect that while with fear
and trembling they are nibbling at the cheese,
that hangs over their heads which descends to
part body and soul.' Now, Master Atcherley,
I am prepared to listen. Give us the com­
position of this hell-broth they are brewing:
we will blow np the cauldron and scatter the
liquor over the cooks. Now for the particu­
lars.”
Atcherley prepared himself to reply: his
communications were clear, deliberate and
forcible.
“ I will give your majesty,” said be, “ the
outlines of the conspiracy in as few words as I
can: they can be soon made known. The
first design is to assassinate your majesty in a
certain place, by overturning a cart in the
ATCSBKLKtr.
highway and so stopping your majesty's car­
riage, while shots from behind the hedges will
bring about their principal object.”
“ Bring about I Master Atcherley,” ex­
claimed the king, “ you mean bring straight
forward: a bullet is a special messenger that
never takes a circuitous route !”
“ I am happy to see your majesty taka the
matter so oomfortably; it argues well for the
success of our counteraction.”
“ Master Atcherley,” said Charles, *
*we
kings walk blindfold among red-hot plough
shares;
‘Customhath mad* it aproperty of samnees.’
Go o n W h a t else do these gentlemen pur­
pose ?”
*
*They design, secondly, to make away with
your majesty's ministers.”
“ A feat,” said Charles, “ for which some-
4T0W BI.ST. 105
times they would get the royal thanks. But
as our 'attendant spirits’ do not happen just
now to ran counter to our inclinations, why
we will beg to say with honest Dogberry,
‘ Flat burglary as ever ms committed,’
Again, Master Atoherley.”
“ Thirdly, their object is to overthrow the
government”
“ Ayel and bury themselves in its ruins.
The building is so stout, Master Atcherley,
that before they can knock all clear away below
the whole will be down upon their heads. A
fool may pull away the props of an edifioe;
but it takes a wise man to raise one. Every
thing on the wrong ride is slippery; mischief
will slide of itself—
good is up-hill work. What
would say our eager reformers if when they
stretch to roach the pin that holds the parts of
the machine together, the wheels should catch
the darts of their coats and drag them within
F 3
ATCHEBLBY.
the penetralia, there to be ground to nought
The machine has still powerfor that operation;
eb. Master Atcherley? Our eager caviller®
calculate too soon on its craziness; but it has
■til teeth to bite, wheels to grind and ham­
mers to strike with. Well, when the king is
made away with, the ministry sent to Tophet,
and the government overturned, little else re­
mains to be done it must be acknowledged. I
suppose our sapient setters to right contem­
plate no more. When the house is down, all
that remains to the rabble is to throw the
bricks at one another’s heads.”
“ They intend to put them to a less com­
mendable use, so please your majesty,” an­
swered Atcherley. “ They haveleaden-headed
architects among them who calculate on rais­
ing a dwarf edifice of their own,”
“Aye!” interrupted the king, “ with so many
chimnies that they will fall through the roof;
vents for the smoky conceits of those who
govern kingdoms and build governments in the
ATCHERLEY. 10?
chimney-corner—puffing in each other’s faces
—rocked by the ever-shifting breath of the
giddy multitude—blown one against the other
—rattling each with its empty Utopia—in
vain endeavouring to. make an impression on
the earthem craniums of their neighbours—
till shaken from their 1bad eminence * by the
convulsions below they tumble into the rub­
bish from which they originally sprung, and
grind their lips in the clay to which they are
kindred. Now that we know the intentions,
we must be made acquainted with the persons
of our gallant and sagacious reformers.”
“ Will your majesty honour me,” said At-
cherley, “ by taking pen and paper ? I will
furnish you with that which is to be inscribed.
But in the first place will your majesty pardon
me for asking a question ?”
“ Ask fifty questions. Master Atcherley.
Though we are no oracle we will answer.”
*
*Will your majesty excuse me when I
ATCHBBLBT.
humbly enquire on what day your royalty
purposes netting forth fit:-::.::- this plan ?”
“ Eight days from to-monow; 1 i ssome
affairs to settle in the interim.’’
“ Precisely, your majesty, as has been an*
ticipated,” said Atcherley. “ On that day
your majesty’s enemies will be in waiting.”
“ Will they?” cried Charles; “ a very
p e a t inducement to set out, upon our royal
honour. What t the dragon is in our path on
that particular day, is he. Master Atcherley.”
“ Your majesty he is,” said Atcherley:
“ but if your majesty would be ruled by me,
we should pass his den while the monster
slumbers, and strangle him in its darkness.”
“ You would have me alter my day of de­
parture?”
“ Your majesty, I would.”
“ We will do it then,” said Charles. “ To
arrive at ourjourney’s end with whole bones is
better than carrying something along with it
ATCHCRUnr. 1 0 9
which wo did not bargain for—namely* m ac­
cident. You shall be our pioneer, Master At-
oherley. On what day does the oracle decree
I should set forth.”
“ To-morrow, your majesty ; a few hours
after dusk if you please. 1 will deliver these
foes bound into your majesty’s hand. The
fetters am forged, and I only wait your majes­
ty’s word to put them on.”
“ To-morrow then it shall be. We have no
occasion to alter our road?"
“ None, your majesty,” said Atcherley.
“ Ail which I have to request of your majesty
is that you would direct your guards to accom­
pany you."
“ They shall—they shall, Master Atoherley;
man and horse, belt and blade, petronel and
bandolier. But we can settle aU these preli­
minaries to our tragi-comedy after you have
given me tie names <
ftfthe conspirators. I mu
eager as a child to get hold of them. Now for
the first! my pen is ready.”
no ATCBFJU.BT.
“ Your majesty, these conspirators are di­
vided into two classes; superior and subordi­
nate. I am familiar with the names and
designs of both divisions of them. Your ma­
jesty of course desires the former to take pre­
cedence.”
“ Aye, in every thing I” said the king with
a grim smile.
“ First then I am grieved to mention to your
majesty the name of the Duke of Monmouth.”
The king dropped his pen, and looked with a
frown of penetration at Atcherley.
“ Monmouth!” he exclaimed.
“ Monmouth, your majesty,” said Atcher­
ley, quietly.
“ Humph I—art sure? are you sure of it?”
“ Perfectly, your majesty.”
“ Well—well; let us hear the remainder—
Go on, Atcherley.”
“ I am sorry to be compelled to mention to
your majesty the name of Lord William
Bussell.”
ATCHERLEY. Ill
“ After Monmouth’s name, this passes: go
on.”
“ Thirdly, I must give you the name of the
Earl of Essex.”
“ The traitor! proceed.”
“ Lord Howard.”
“ A competitor for the axe! Away with
him—Again.”
“ Algernon Sidney, son of the Earl of Lei­
cester.”
“ Son of the Devil! the block shall father
him. Any more. Master Atcherley ?”
“ Sixthly and finally of our superior circle,
John Hampdea”
“ The very name stinks of treason. Go on
—it is tacked to the rest.”
“ These, your majesty, are the leaders of
the conspiracy; though they are independent
of the plot the contrivers of which I must now
enumerate. I acquit the preceding persons of
this present scheme of assassination. Those
112 ATCHEBLEY.
whom I am now about to mention are deliber­
ate villains, the majority of them low wretches
who will be satisfied with nothing abort of
blood; and royal—your majesty will pardon
me.”
“ I do,” said the king laconically. “ Now
for this subordinate Pandemonium or Chamber
of Devils.”
“ I wish yonr majesty distinctly to under­
stand,” continued Atoherley, “ that these are
all connected with the design upon your ma­
jesty’s life which has now brought me here. 1
solicit your majesty’s most graoious attention.
First among these gentlemen, among whom 1
have of course mixed with the objects whioh
your majesty will perceive, is Oliver Rocking­
ham, a zealous and restless republican, content
with nothing short of a total overthrow of the
government, and one of the most intent upon
your royal life. He will be the first that I
shall deliver into yonr majesty’s hand.”
ATCHEBtET. 113
“ We thank you for the loan, Master At-
cherley. Lend him to me —
I will return him
to you only shorter by the head. Proceed.”
J “ The next,” resumed Atcherley, “ is
an individual whom only my sincere at­
tachment to your majesty’s person could
tempt me to give up. In mentioning him to
your majesty, be assured, impelled by that
Consideration before which I have felt—irre­
sistibly felt—all others must give way, I com­
promise the safety of a truly attached friend.
It has taken much—very much—to work me
up to this. Your majesty is witness that it is
only at the eleventh hour I implicate him in
the fatal business. I have wasted my nights
and days in endeavours to turn him from his
path, but my endeavours, which were often
repulsed but still continued unremitting, have
been in vain. My straggle has not been the
less deep because it has been silent; and even
with my foot upon the threshold of your ma­
jesty’s palace I was tempted to turn back and
leave you in ignorance of your danger. But
ATCBEHLEY.
the die is cast. I sacrifice my friend on the
altar of my duty!”
As he spoke, Atcherley dashed his hand
quickly over his eyes, seeking to hide the tear
which he had called up in them.
A pause ensued, broken only byadeep-drawn
sigh from the heart of Atcherley.
“ We pity you,” said the king quietly; “hat
you yourself acknowledge the treason of yow
friend. Give us his name: you haveproved
yourself a worthy man, and a most true friend
to us.”
“ His name, your majesty, is Roland Tor-
rington, Sir Roland Torrington 1 shouldcall
him: his brother fell by the hands of thieves
in the streets of London, arid with all hisun­
fortunate principles aggravated by his recent
acquisition of wealth and influence he has slept
into the vacant baronetcy. He has a mostex­
tensive influence in Derbyshire; his tenantry
are celebrated for the demoralising spirit o
f
their political views, and he is him
self
ATCHERI-KY. 115
ready to give everything up for his darling re­
public.”
As the king bent down to put Roland’s
name upon the fatal list, the inexpressible
smile with which Ateherley witnessed the
movement only caught his own eye in the mir­
ror opposite.
“ Somuchforthese gentlemen,” said Charles,
“ they fall into the pit they have dug for an­
other. Our ministry shall be made acquainted
with these fearful matters.”
“ Pardon me, your majesty,” said Ateherley,
“ secrecy —
perfect secrecy is indispensable at
the present moment: no suspicion must go
forth; the result might he fatal and reverse our
plans. I understand that your majesty will set
out to-morrow: time so your journey that you
may arrive about nine in the evening at the
spot I set down in this:” as he spoke Atcher-
ley produced a sealed paper. “ Allow me to
beg your majesty to let no eye rest upon this
paper exoept your own: be pleased also not to
HI ▲TCBBBLBT.
open it until yon give the directions for yoof
route. Let no man observe it guides you in
the road yon taka Permit your majesty's
carriage to follow you: that will be the object
of attack. Disguised and on horseback yon
can precede it some distance, and you will con­
sequently be in safety. Your majesty’s Guards
will as usual surround the carriage. Or, what
will be better still, order them to follow H at
some little distance, mid let the carriage be ac­
companied by only the usual attendants. This
will be the consequence of this arrangement.
Your majesty will pass unnoticed and unsus­
pected, taken, begging yonr majesty’s pardon,
for an avant courier. The conspirators will
dart upon the carriage, make an attack upon
those that accompany it, be engaged in the
combat when the troopers oome np, and will be
arrested to a man. I wish to place aU in
your majesty’s hands, and it is therefore
expedient that the plot work to the latest
moment.”
STCHEBLBV. 117
“ Good advice and worthy the following.
B ut all this loyal interest and unusual care of
our person, demands compensation—and no
trifling, everyday compensation. We have said
your name would grace the addition of Sir:—
stay! this friend—ci-devant friend of your’s,
M r. Atcherley—for he little deserves that be
should be styled snch now—this late friend of
yours is by title a baronet: we did not mistake,
did we, Mr. Atcherley ?”
*
*He who toat my friend,” said Atcherley
with solemnity; “ is now Sir Boland Tor-
rington.”
“ Ah ! Torrington — Torrington,” echoed
bis majesty, “ the name though not the title
had escaped me. Yon are aware that he for­
feits both title and estate for this bloody and
audacious treason, of which, as you tell us, he
is so obstinate an abettor. ’Twere meet indeed
that such disaffected desperadoes should be
allowed edge-tools ; things which at will
cam be turned to our prejudice. We give
118 ATCIIBBUSTT.
not knives to madmen, Mr. Atcherley, not
will we give power to those who know not
how to use it.”
“ Your majesty, indeed,” answered Atcher-
ley, “ instead of surrounding your throne
with reeds, or such things perchance as might
turn to spears, would perhaps do best in plant­
ing those good stout oaken staves around
your majesty, upon which dependence can be
placed in the hour of Deed. They may cat
but a bad figure by the side of our willow
wands : but in the time of danger they will
neither bend, break, nor pierce. But your
majesty must permit me to withdraw. I have
trespassed already too much upon your majes­
ty’s time. Shall I have the honour of repeating
the mode which your majesty has adopted of
baffling the vipers which are lying in your ma­
jesty’s path?”
“ No occasion for it, my trusty Achates,”
answered the king. “ Perhaps it may be better
that we now part. A king’s house is better
ATCHERLEY. 119
furnished with eyes and ears, than furniture
of a more useful description. We will solicit
your pardon then, until we again seeeach other
to-morrow.”
“ When I hope,” said Atcherley, “ to rend
the net and put the tattered meshes into your
majesty’s hand.”
“ The fish hooked by the gills in the net—
eh. Master Atcherley ?” said the king.
“ The present would but be of small value
without, so please your majesty. We will
tell them they have mistaken their stream and
put them, shorter by the head, into a better
one.”
“ Piquantly grilled,” added the king, “ a
choice dish for the devil’s table. He must
thank us for the present. Ha, ha, haI Speak­
ing of the latter personage puts you in mind of
your allegiance to your lawful monarch, does it
Master Atcherley ? Too wish to reflect the
countenance of your patron by donning his
dingy livery again.”
ATCHERUBY.
The E ng was referring to Atcheriey’i
mantle, in which he was again enveloping
himself, and which rivaled the hue of the
night itself. The latter took the not alto­
gether pleasing allusion with the best grace,
smiled at His Majesty’s conceit, and prepared
to depart. The King deliberately rote, waved
Us hand gracefully to his visitor, and retired
towards the inner door. With a reverential
obeisance Atcherley Bilently withdrew, and
was conducted out of the palace with the mine
quiet formality with which he entered it
The staircase was descended, the service of
the attendant that he had found in the hall
were put again in requisition, the hall was
traversed, the door unclosed ; and Atcherley
once more found himself in the open air,
veiled carefully from observation, and ready to
return to the place from which he had set
out.
■
......... .
ATCHERLEY. 121
CHAPTER VI.
“ What childish frolic is this, Signor Don Louis, or
what powerfW caw has mored you to come in this
manner, and this dress, so little becoming your
quality.?”
Don Quixote. Vol. 1, page 317.
“ By this they found that the person, who seemed
to be a peasant, was, in reality, a woman, and a
delicate one, nay, the handsomest that two of the
three had ever beheld with their eyes.”
The tame. Vol. 1, page 180.
We must now return to the Rye House,
where the conspirators, little imagining their
purposes were betrayed by one upon whom
they looked as the most sagacious and
voi* in. o
122 ATCHEHLEY.
trustworthy in their number, and little antici­
pating that their schemes were about to be
frustrated by His Majesty’s recent change of
determination, were busied in arranging and
maturing the plans which they fully expected
were about to crown their hopes with success.
It was not difficult for Atcherley, who, as we
haveseen,had his own viewsin bo doing, to leave
the Bye House for a time. The whole party
assembled there bad of course little or no
employment during the day; and it was after
lounging about for some hours, that lie re­
solved, as he said, to pass the time, which hang
on his hands, and assist his friend Rock­
ingham’s self-imposed and arduous duty with
his own industry and intelligence, to follow
him, and endeavour to join him at Newmarket
or encounter him on his return.
As will be gathered, Atcherley had been for
sometime known by the King, and from time to
time had given hints of what was agitating
against his government.
ATCHE1MT, 123
About ten o’clock on the following morning
Rockingham arrived at the Rye House, having
obtained, as he fancied, all the intelligence for
which he had been seeking. Directly the first
greetings were over, at Atoherley’s desire a
council was called ot all the conspirators. The
great parlour was named as the scene of
consultation, and Rumbald was requested to
desire the attendance of Roland and Horace.
The latter were without the house when Rock­
ingham arrived, and had not as yet seen
him.
In the mean time Atcherley was conversing
with Rockingham on the news which the
latter had been able to pick up. Anxious to
know what had induced his friend to trust
with secrets of so much importance a youth
of such a description as Horace Belford, he
was preparing to put some questions on the
subject, in order to elicit the reasons for ap­
parently so incautious and unaccountable a
step.
o 3
( ...
C
ATCHERLKY.
“ So, Master Rockingham, we are indebted
to you for a new confederate,” said he. “In
our situation every new adherent is a cast in
our favour: it is not only at the first that a
display of numbers would be requisite, bot
in the matters which must afterwards arise.
Half a dozen hands could bring about our
principal end, but the consequences must be
backed with numbers. 1 have seen our new
recruit”
“ Hast thou, Master Atcberley; then I
hope thou approvest ofhim.”
" I could not do otherwise,” returned At-
cherley, “ when he was recommended by so
honest and sagacious a friend as Master Oliver
Rockingham. He is a brisk person, and by
and by m
any prove of service. At present w
e
must commit the execution of our designs to
older and, what is scarcely less necessary,
stouter persons.”
“ Thou must strangely have mistaken his
looks, my dear friend,” answered Rockingham.
ATCHERLEY. 125
*
*We have not many in our fraternity, sav­
ing myself, Master Rumbald, and one or two
others, who are older. And as for being stal­
wart—I have seen bis stoutness proven on
more occasions than one. He has before this
been engaged in designs which should and do
warrant to us his present fidelity. He is bold*
stoat and resolute: not apt perhaps to be
distinguished in council, but one who can well
acquit himself where steel is at work and shot
flying. I no sooner cast eyes on him and be­
came acquainted with his name and prospects,
than 1 a%w lie would prove of substantial
utility to us and all we meditate. 1 charged
Mm with that letter to thee for a double pur­
pose—
that of informing thee of what it was at
the time necessary thou should’st know, and
giving thee an opportunity of approving my
choice. Be assured his opinions run to the
very extreme:—moreover he is a Puritan.”
“ A Puritan 1
” echoed Atcherley in genuine
astonishment.
ATCHEKLBY.
“ I do sot see,” answered Rockingham with
some displeasure, “ that the matter is so very
surprising. Is he any the worse for cleavingto
the opinions of a godly yet persecuted body.”
“ My dear bu t,” said Atcherley, “ not in the
least so; but areyou sure he has a proper dais
to the title?”
“ Undoubtedly — undoubtedly,” retained
Rockingham. “ I know his family too well
for me to suppose I am deceived. I am not
altogether one to be over-reaohed in such mat­
ters. Bis brother is one of the most upright
men with whom I am acquainted; one upon
whom the influences of grace havedescended in
no common measure. He is an Israelite, indeed,
in whom there is no guile; grave in discourse,
blameless in conduct, clear in principle.
His brother partakes greatly of his laudable
silenoe and gravity. Tbon obtain’st but little
from him during your journey hither, I will
bethe warrant I directed Uni how and where
to join thee; for it was material that be
ATCHERLEY. 127
should come in thine and Boland’s company,
and with this particular spot he was by no
means acquainted. Speaking of Boland,
friend Atoherley; he is here ? I long to see
him.
“ Sir Boland Torrington « here, my dear
dr,” answered Atoherley, “ and I cannot now
help breaking in upon our argument by con­
gratulating yon upon the wonderfully amended
—nay, brilliant prospects of your son-in-law
elect.”
“ Aye, yes: Sir Boland Torrington,” an­
swered Bockingham impatiently. “ His good
fortune in that respect—good he may think
it, and good it is, in a mere temporal point
of view—cannot much elate me. So as he
proves himself what I hopeand look for in this
present business, it is of little moment tome
what he may be otherwise : these baubles.turn
the bend. Master Atoherley, and 1 am in some
measure sorry for their having fallen into his
128 ATCHEALBT.
possession. They are the men vanities of the
sinful world in which welive—"
“ But consider/’interrupted Atcherley, my
dear Master Rockingham, what infinite conse­
quence they will prove towards and how much
they will forward our enterprise. We want
but wealth and high station, Master Rocking-
ham, to break the superstructure which las
been raised over our heads. We lacked both;
but we have both. You heard, probably, of
Sir Reginald's singular murder: the business
was at the time, and still remains, a matter of
the most profound mystery."
“ Fearful wasthatmurder indeed, myfriend,"
replied Rockingham. “It wasasawarningtothis
sinful, heedless, and over worldly generation.
Thou did’st not become aware what brought
Sir Reginald up to London 1"
“ Heaven knows.what induced the fatal jour­
ney T returned Atcherieywith*nigh. “ It seems
as if his destiny hurried him on tomeet his de-
ATCHERLEY. 129
Blraction. I have regretted Mm much—much
Master Rockingham—for there was that about
him which pleased on dose acquaintance. He
was always particularly kind to me/' , - -
“ I cannot say,” said Rockingham, “ that I
was altogether attracted towards him. He on
one occasion seemed desirous of making my
daughter lady of bis heart and estate j but she
seemed averse to the match, and I was then
so closely occupied with framing our present
designs—with seeking means of bringing my
speculations to bear—that I paid the mat­
ter but small attention. Besides wealth and dig­
nity never were, and never will be, my objects.
But you lad some intelligence to communicate
on my return—
important intelligence—
to our
brethren in council. It concerns our present
design ; the hewing away our principal ob­
struction. Call our people together, and let
us hear to what it relates.”
“ With that you shall soon be made ac­
quainted,” returned Atcherley; “ and there is
ATCUKRLET.
rime enough and to spue for the consequent
preparations. Roland— Sir Boland, I should
aaj; but we have been friends so long I lose
the proper compliment—S r Bolandand Master
Horace Belford most be made acquainted with
oar newly called council. ’ 1
“ Master Horace BelfordP echoed Rocking­
ham; “ 1 know not the name: perhaps a party
introduced by thee, friend Atcherley, to the
confederation: if such we rely npoa him and
he is welcome.”
" You know not the name, Master Rocking­
ham,” repeated Atcherley, “ yon surprise me 1
Have you so soon forgotten your Puritan pm -
—
to speak a little clearer, yonr g*<mdam
messenger; the parson whom I had the honour
of conducting hither ?”
“ What can yon mmm ?" said Rockingham:
“ the person to whom 1 entrusted my letter—
the person whom I recommended to thee, did
not bear this name.”
“ He bears it now at all events,” said At*
ERLEY 131
cherley. “ Your description of him is certainly
somewhat different to that which 1 should
have given. Silenoe and solidity seem not al­
together his characteristics. Perhaps,” con­
tinued he, recollecting himself, “ your letter
will assist in unravelling the mystery. He
certainly duly presented it, and gave a good
account of himself, and the letter is incontesti-
bly ofyour penning. You will knowyour writing
at a glance: there is no room to suspect a for­
gery.”
Saying this, Atcherley produced the letter.
Rockingham took it from Lis hand, carefully
perused it, turned it over to look at the super­
scription, and paused a moment in deep con­
sideration.”
“ This is evidently the same letter I wrote
to thee; but the name is strange to me, and
the party thou sayest differeth greatly
from a bat hath been said of him herein. The
presence of the man himself can alone resolve
the mystery. Let him be brought in I I should
A ’l T O f e ii f «rtP
A i\XlllU4iXi
suspect treachery but that I know no one
after betraying our councils would Teuton to
trust himself sofearlessly among ns.”
*
*Hum—I do not exactly c iacide with you,
my dear Master Rockingham, in your last ob*
serration,” said Atcherley drily. “ But whe­
ther that would or would not be the case, the
fellow must be aware that on our comparing
notes the imposition would be detected—that
the murder would be out. But hush ! I hear
voices outside: one is Roland’s. Rumbald has
I dare say summoned Roland and this young
man to our consultation. We shall soon know
how the land lies.”
As he spoke the door opened, and Rum-
bald, Roland and Horace Belford entered the
room. Roland quickly advanced to take
Rockingham’s hand, but Horace Belford, the
instant he saw Rockingham, coloured highly,,
seemed much disturbed with fear and surprise,
and quickly glided into the darkest part of the
apartment.
ATCUTRLEY. 133
“ So, Roland, thou art come to greet me,"
said Rockingham ; “ thou art dearly welcome,
my brave boy. May thy progress in the great
—the mighty cause be such as will bring tri­
umph to my heart.”
“ Amen I” was uttered by all.
“ My regard for thee seemeth to be doubled
since I see thee in this house and in this good
company. Thou art indeed now one of us, and
bound to me by ties stronger than any this vain
world can boast. Where is this person whom
we desired to see ? A glance will satisfy
me ?”
“ Do you mean our fellow traveller, sir?”
enquired Roland, “ there he Btands. 1 have
seen little or nothing of him since our arri­
val here. Somehow or other he seems to
have kept out of my way, which I take very
unkindly and I tell him so. He has bestowed
more of his company on you and Mistress
Rumbald,” continued Roland, addressing Rum-
134 ATCH&BI.&Y.
bald, “ than bis old acquaintances. I hap­
pened to light ob him this morning out of
doom, and at the desire of Master Emnbali
brought him hither to be present at the consul­
tation which I hear is to take place.”
Atcherley stood silent. His attitude was
negligent and easy, and there was a singular
smile on his lip that at another time would
have puzzled an observer.
“ You brought him now at Master Buinbald’s
desire, and conducted him to this house at
mine, ’ said Buckingham. “ Let us see
him ; his change of name wants explana­
tion.”
Bumbald stood back at these words, and all
fixed their eyes on Horace Belford. He
was evidently greatly disconcerted at their
steady gaze.
“ Why, gentlemen, here is what may turn
out a dangerous mistake I” said Rockingham.
“ This is not the man 1 recommended to you.
ATCHERLEY. 135
This affair must be instantly explained.
Please you, young man, to step out in the light
and account for this vary strange andsuspicious
imposition.”
Horace Belford certainly showed so inoli- *
nation to obey Rockingham. His silence in*
creased the suspicions which were already ga­
thering in Rockingham’s mind.
“ The youth will not answer,” said Rock*
Ingham; “ this business must be sifted to the
bottom I We have fortunately the principal
party in our power: he has not had any
communication with any stranger since he
lighted on Master Atcherley and Sir Roland
Torrington ?”
“ He has not,” said Rumbald, “ indeed he has
not, I believe, stirred out of the house since he
came to it.”
* As this young person,” continued Rocking*
ham, “ will not doas we desire himand advance
into the light, you mustbe pleased, gentlemen,
to bring him forward. I must question him,
I see, particularly.”
ATCHERM5Y.
With this direction. Master Rumbald laid
his hand on Horace’s arm, and brought him
very reluctantly forward.
The moment he stood in a better light,
Rockingham started, stared, and passed his
hand over his eyes, as if doubting the reality
of what he saw.
“ Is it posable?” be exclaimed in astonish'
ment “ Do.my eyes really deceive me, or
am I witnessing the truth ? Good God! Julia,
do I see thee here* or am I deluded with some
machination of Satan.”
Boland started at Julia’s name, clapped
his bud against his forehead, and fixed an
eager glance upon the face of the suspected
party. There was no room for doubt; for with
her eyes fixed on the ground, her cheeks mant>
ling with blushes, and her head averted, Julia
Rockingham stood coofest,
Atcherley’s glance passed quickly from
Roland’s face to that of his disguised mistress.
It was with a cunning smile that Ms eye* nett
ATCHERLEY. 137
sought the astonished countenance of Oliver
Rockingham.
“ This is a goodly piece of work I” cried
Rockingham, rousing himself from hia tem­
porary abstraction. “ I cannot put my aston­
ishment in words. And so this isyour journey,
mistress, to your aunt’s house, is it? She has
certainly escaped the scandal of having ad­
mitted you into it, though I am to bear the
shame of having seen you thus.”
“ What could have made me so blindF cried
Roland. “ Some vague thoughts of this have
flitted across my mind; but somehow I
could not put my surmises into shape. 1 must
have been possessed I infatuated 1 dreaming!
As this has escaped me,” he said, turning to
Atcherley, “ there is very good excuse for
your having never discovered it.”
“ Why, yes, the disguise is ingenious,” raid
Atcherley, “ or hard it would indeed have
been to baffle the quick eye of a lover. But,
Master Rockingham, you see that the case
ATCHERLEY.
stands thus, lamentable as yon may think it,
and I am partly glad it has tamed oat no
worse.”
“ Oar counsels are safe,” said Rockingbam.
“ I know what you mean. Master Rumbald,
beso kind as to keep us private for a minute
or two: ’twere not meet this disgrace met the
eyes of any save those principally concerned.”
“ I take the hint, Master Rockingham,”
said Rumbald, “ and withdraw. No one shall
come in here till you please j but be speedy in
whatever you do, for we are all naturally im­
patient for Master Atoherley to lay open his
intelligence.”
* Rumbald accordingly withdrew, and left the
apartment to Rockingham, Roland, Atcherley
and the ci-devant Horace Belford.
“ We are now alone,” said Rockingham,
when the door dosed behind Rumbald; “ and
thou, my giddy mistress, need not fear the
scrutiny of strange eyes. Tell us in the devil’s
name, since thou hast so much in thee of him,
ATCHBBLEY. 139
what brought thee here, and what induced thee
to pot thyself in this strange and shameful
attire I Thou hast no chance of pardon from
me but by a full confession. I am happy—
happy indeed—that no one penetrated thine
horrible disguise till I deteoted thee. Speak j
let us hear thee vindicate thyself; if ▼indicate
thyself thou canst. Thou wilt attempt to do
it, 1 know. I know thy impudence, andnow,
to my cost, know more of it than ever.”
Julia cast her cloak around her, and then,
with many tears and sobs, threw herself at her
father’s feet. Boland stept hastily forward and
would have raised her, but he was prevented
by her father.
“ No!” said he, “ to find her way to my
heart she must explain her conduot and do it
thoroughly, and the most appropriate attitude
of penitence is kneeling. 1 must hear her
clear up all, or 1 swear that I will have
nothing to do with her in future.”
Julia raised her eyes to her father's face, and
ATCHERLEY.
caught his baud. At first he seemed disposed
to withdraw it, but at last he found it difficult
to avoid abandoning it to her.
“ 1 know, sir,” said she, “ yon cannot avoid
putting a very unfavourable interpretation on
my present appearance and my seeming light­
ness of behaviour, but before you condemn
me I know you will listen to the vindication
1 have to offer. I hope, sir, 1 shall never
disgrace the name I bear—it is your name—
it is my mother’s. You shall be convinced I
have had deep reasons for putting myself in
this improper disguise: but with all I have to
advance in my defence, I am more ashamed of
my obstinacy and folly than all that you
could say, much as I should bow to it, would
make me.”
“ Thou sayest thou hast something to ad­
vance in thy defence,” said Rockingham,
“ deep reasons for this disgraceful disguise; I
await them.”
“ Pardon me, sir,” said Julia, “ giving you
ATCHEBLEY. Ml
them just now. You shall know all—all that
I have done and all my thoughts 5 but allow
os to be alone before you insist upon my
telling you. Be patient, my dear—my dearest
father, but for a very little while, and you
shall have all my heart laid open to you. I—I
am ashamed to speak of my imprudence be­
fore—before the present company, inclined ns
I know they would be to place the most fa­
vourable construction upon what was at least
done with no bad intention.”
•*Ashamed to speak of thine imprudence be­
fore the present company?” repeated Bock-
ingham. “ Boland will I am sure be too ready
to forgive thee, since, as I suspect, he was at
the bottom of this mischief—nay, don’t be
frightened, Boland I I do not suspect thee of
conniving at the giddy child’s disguising her­
self in this way, but I can see thou wert the
cause of it. . Her dread of Sir Boland’s listen­
ing to her story, I dare to say has swallowed
up all her fear of Master Atcherley’s con-
ATCHEHTJ5Y.
structions on her conduct, though she might
have feared that he would have taken a less
lenient view of it. But both of you,” conti­
nued he, turning to Boland and Atchetley,
“ look as if you could forgive her.”
“ Forgive her 1
” cried Boland. “ I Mess
her for her interest in me I”
“ My forgiveness can never be given,” said
Atcherley, “ for Miss Julia Rockingham can
never do anything that I could forgive. Per­
haps is she has so readily offered an explana­
tion, she will satisfy us who her attendant,
Henry Morton, is.”
Roland eagerly looked to Jolia for an an­
swer. Perhaps she observed the glance, or at
least perhaps she felt the direction her lover’s
eyes had taken, for she seemed anxious to
clear away all doubt.”
“ You could not recognise,” said she, with
downcast eyes, “ my maid Cedlia Capel, for I
think that you have never seen her except in
her present unfortunate dress,”
ATCHBRLEY. 143
“ Hah !noried Bockingbam, “ thisisaltogether
a very pretty and maidenly piece of business!
Mistress and maid masquerading through the
country! 1 hope soon to commit thee into
the hands of one who will look sharply after
thee. Depend on it this will be the last of
thy frolics. Well, on consideration, I think
it will be best to hear what thou hast to say
for thyself in private. I shall save thee much
confusion 1 know, and therefore 1 shun get toy
story the clearer. Come, mistress, 1 must in­
flict my society upon you till we reach Mrs.
Bumbald’s apartment. There shalt thou be
bestowed for the present. I have not time at
the present moment to listen to thy tale; for
weighty matters engross me. Master Atcher-
ley, wilt thou inform our friend Bumbald that
this room is now at liberty and that I shall
return immediately. Gather our brethren to­
gether, and let ns hear what thou hast to tel
us. Boland, look not so grave at my carrying
off this silly quean, for I will soon retail the
ATCHBHLEY.
particulars of her vindication to thy private
ear. Gather our people together, for I will
instantly return.”
With these words Rockingham, leading his
daughter, who seemed so abashed that all she
could do was to steal a furtive glance at her
lover just before she left the room, quitted
Roland and Atcherley’s presence, and ascended
the staircase to Mrs. Rumbald’s private sitting-
room.
Roland, much chagrined that his mistress
should thus be carried •away when he had ob­
tained the greatest proof of her unhesitating
fondness, quickly paced the apartment and
seemed disposed to preserve a moody silence.
Atcherley was as easy as ever, and, humming
an air then in vogue, strolled carelessly to the
latticed window.
ATCHXBL8Y. 145
CHAPTER VIL
Is there no exorcist
Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes!
Ia’t real, that I seef
All’
s well that ends well. Act 6. Scene 3.
“ Buckingham. Loyou, my lord,
T len upon me; 1shall perish
Under derice nod practice.”
Masteb Olivkk BocMMaHAM haring trana-
ferred his truant daughter to the care of Mis,
Rumbald, returned to the great parlour, where,
•I Atcherley's invitation, Rombald uni the rest
of the conspirators in i already nusueinhlfli
SooMagham had regnetted Mrs. Baanlwld to
▼
ox» m. h
Henry Will, Act 1. Scene 1.
ATCHERtEY.'
furnish Julia with one of her own dresses,
anti to order Cecilia Capel, the late Henry
Morton, into the care of the oldest of her two
female servants, with a charge to furnish her
with the garments of her true sex.
All gathered around the table after a careful
examination had satisfied them that there were
no listeners. Atcherley was unanimously called
to the principal seat, in consequence and in
expectation of the intelligence which he had
to lay before them.
There was perfect silence when he com­
menced. He spoke at some length, enume­
rating the preparations which had been already
made, and dwelling on the names and the
characters of the members of the confederation.
At last he touched upon that which he in­
tended to communicate, and which, as it hap­
pened, was the truth.
“ Master Oliver Rockingham,” said he,
“ has brought a confirmation of that which has
all along influenced our deliberations. K;ng
ATCHEBLET. 147
Charles, he has declared, intends to set oat
eight days from this; thereby giving ns full
time for every preparation. But I have to
inform you, gentlemen, that His Majesty,
most contrary to expectation, sets out this
very evening, and passes this'house about nine
o’clock. My authority is undoubted, though
I am not at liberty to disclose it. But to the
truth—the whole truth of what I have stated,
I will pledge my honour.”
This intelligence—unexpected os it was—
created an instantaneous sensation. There was
that in Afchetley’s look and tone which con­
vinced the assembly that be spoke the truth.
His means of gaining intelligence though mys­
terious were known to be sure; besides every
body knew that he could have no object in
deceiving them. There was a pause, during
which each person present appeared struck
dumb with surprise.
The consequent reaction displayed itself in
every one present starting from his seat and
h 3
ATCHEHLEY.
fixing eager eyes upon those of his neigh­
bour. Rockingham was the first to break the
silence.
“ Why stand ye thus, my brethren?” cried
he. « Charles comes to-night;—
so much the
better I the aaorifioe is eight days sooner than
it was appointed, and that is «E Gentlemen,
=:> must interdict all idle canvassing of the
mutter—it is unnecessary uni * waste of time.
It behoves us now to instantly prepare our­
selves. If we miss on this occasion, we lose
all!”
“ Why should we miss,” said Rumbald.
“ His coming to<night can make no difference
to us: our swords are as sharp and our hearts
are as steady as they would be months to
oome. We only send the tyTaot eight days
sooner before that Great Tribunal where he
must answer for his enormities. The root is
evil—why should we delay to tear it up?”
These words seemed to excite an instant
and fierce virncity in those who ware but a
ATOPBR1
M
8 14S
moment previous lost is abstraction. All tbe
desperate hardihood necessary for their daring
enterprise seemed to spring up within them at
the moment when it was required. It was
the torch applied to die train, firing that
which for so long a time had lain dormant into
instantaneous explosion.
“ Aye, tyrant—tyrantF echoed on all sides
44drunk with tbe blood of the wise and good—
with the blood of those who combat for Zion
’gainst Satan and the woman of Babylon, and
those who straggle for their earthly freedom
with the tyrants of the earth. Heaven abides
him no longer! Fate has torn out the leaves
which yet remained in the blood-stained book
of his lifeP
1
4 Peace I peacet my brethren,” cried Rock­
ingham, “ This disclosure hath called forth all
that is necessary for our success, but lot us
make surety doubly sure, and sift mid arrange
all that bears the nearest or remotest relation
to our grand design. Let our enterprise be a
ATCHEBLEY.
system perfectly adjusted in all its details, ap­
proved by the most icy caution, carefully
weighed in the balance of probability: let it
be put together with the nicety of the most
splendid machine, and let it crush in the secu­
rity of perfection P
Rockingham's words appeared to have a
very useful effect upon the company. They
restrained the previous outbreak and com­
posedly reseated themselves at the table.
“ To do any thing well,” said Rockingham,
after allowing sufficient time for silence to be
restored and the meeting to calm, “ is to do it
deliberately. We have jnst heard that the deed
which we expected to be called upon to do
some little time to come, must be done to night.
If anything the change in our proceedings is
for the better. Delays damp the ardour of
resolve. Master William Atcberley, I must
put a question to thee. At what hour did’st
thou say we were to expect our object ?”
“ At nine o’clock,” returned Ateherley,
ATCHEBLEY. 151
*
*the King, according to, the information I con­
trived to obtain at the palace, passes this
house.’’
* Does he travel lightly,” enquired Rock­
ingham, “ or with bis Guards?’’
“ With his usual attendants,” returned
Atcherley, “ but without an esoort. We can
make ourselves masters of his carriage, and
after routing bis servants dispatch him in it.’’
“ Dispatch!” muttered Roland, starting and
looking suddenly up. Fortunately his emotion
was not ob-erved by his companions, or their
construction upon his behaviour might not have
been of the best kind. It will not appear
strange that Roland’s eyes were now for the
first time opened to the design of the con­
spirators, when the cautious steps by which
he had been led into the confederation by
Rockingham and Atcherley, and the few and
scattered hints which had been given him by
the latter respecting the purpose of the plotters,
are called to remembrance. He very well
ATCHBBLET.
knew that a design was meditating against
Charles, ta t he concluded that as his friend
Atcherley was acquainted with it, and as he
considered him the personification of all that
was great and honourable, that it merely
pointed against the Bong’s sovereignty, and
that in waylaying him the only object was the
getting him into their power. Atcherley had
been cautions enough not only not to enlighten
him on the subject himself, ta t to prevent
©there from doing so. Boland, too, was more
inclined than he could approve of himself,
to couple Julia with his privaoy to the con­
spiracy. He could thoroughly acquit himself,
however, of having joined the plotters solely
through selfish motives. His conviction of
the necessity of a change, of the tyranny of
the government, of the inevitable consequences
attendant upon the succession of James, Duke
of York, as a Popish monarch—his certainty
that men like Monmouth, Hampden, Sidney,
and Bussell, would not have acoeded to and
ATCHEBLEY. 153
even first framed the confederation unless the
motives that guided them were upright, their
objects great andjust, and the means by which
thej sought to bring about their objects honour*
able and unequivocal; this conviction and
certainty we say was strong as he or any one
could have wished it to be; and he was so
well persuaded that the whole was a struggle
for religion and liberty against Popery and
misgovernment, that he did not even think it
necessary to analyse his motives, or examine
how far his private feelings might beconcerned
in what he thus pronounced so self-evident as
to need no looking into. Of course he had
no meansof knowing that the present desperate
enterprise was one grafted upon the original,
plot, and that it was unauthorised by and
unknown to the chief conspirators.
His resolutionwas taken in a moment. Tohesi­
tate now wasout of the question: but he deter­
minedtotakenoforwardpartinthedesignagainst
the King’s life, and if possible to convert the
h 5
ATCHERLET.
mastership of His Majesty’s person into hot
a temporary detention of him.
" ’Us well so far,” said Rockingham, after
a moment's pause upon Atcherley’s last obser­
vation. *
*What is the hour now?”
“ One, by the clock in the hall,” answered
Rumbald.
"W e have, therefore,” continued Rocking-
nam, “ many hours good. These must be
spent in preparing our arms and sending out
scouts. I believe we need debate no longer:
every one present is convinced that the life
of Charles Stuart is inconsistent with liberty.
His assassination will be the signal for a
general rise, and our upper council will be
freed from the meat onerous part of the duty.
Future proceedings will be the subject of
future councils. Our determination for this
day is taken. Ye think in this matter per­
fectly as I?”
“ All—all—all,’* was echoed round the
table.
ATCHRRLBY. 155
4
1 How then to prepara ourselves 1" exclaimed
Bodd^gbsm.
At those words there was an immediate
bustle: all rase, some quitted the room, some
took down rapiers, pistols and firelocks from
the walls, examining their condition; and
others betook themselves to their small maga­
zine, where ammunition, buff coats, helmets,
breast and back plates, arms and bandoliers
awaited them.
Tbe remainder of the day was spent in
watching and completing preparations. At
seven o’clock a table was laid with refresh­
ments, wine and spirits. Pledging each other
in token of everlasting friendship and unity
of purpose, the band of conspirators began
to prepare their minds for the approaching
daring and dangerous enterprise.
When the table was cleared and all the
household were assembled, together with Mis­
tress Rumbald, Julia Rockingham, now in her
proper dress, and Cecilia Capel, the conspi-
ATCBERLEY.
rotors, with grave brows and uncovered heads,
formed a circle round Ferguson the Indepen­
dent clergyman, who with the Bible in one
hand and a drawn sword in the other, his
eyes directed energetically upward, and his
countenance kindling with fervour, poured oat
his whole soul in &long and highly solemn
prayer.
Such was the greatness of the general
silence, that the slightest movement acquired
an exiraodinary distinctness. The deep tones
of the speaker ceased to echo through the
apartment, and bowing his head upon his
weapon, a pause of solemn meditation suc­
ceeded. All kept their eyes bent hnmbly on
the floor till the clergyman, by slowly raising
himself from his inolined position, intimated
that the service was concluded.
All was then energy and bustle. Eight
had just sounded from the hall Each conspi­
rator buckled on his breast and back-plate
or put on a thick and heavy buff-coat, plac­
ing helmet or thick bearer on his head, belting
▲TOHBBLET. 1 5 7
on bis sword and placing Us pistols in tie
broad belt which cinctured his waist. Over all
each man threw an ample dock of uniform
colour, and a few of the numberconcealed dark
lanterns under its voluminous folds. Atcherley
armed himself with a pair of single-barrelled
pistols, and after carefully examining his bright
and excellently tempered rapier he deposited
it finally in the gilt scabbard.
Rockingham kissed his daughter hurriedly,
for their peace had been made, and endea­
voured to draw away Roland, who since the
service had kept close to Julia’s side. At last
the voioeof Rumbald awakened the lover to his
duties. He started up and endeavoured to
calmJulia, who clung to him asif he was about
to take a last farewell of her.
“ Roland I” she cried. “ Oh I defend me
from the ill that I am sure hangs over me!
1 feel—I see someterrible danger is approach­
ing. ' Let all go—let them hazard their lives,
158 ATCHERLRY.
lor their hearts are in the service—bat do you
stay with me I I shall be killed with fear for
you. Why needest thou venture thy life in
this woeful—this terrible—this desperate en­
terprise I”
* Because,’’ cried her father, * it is only by
doing his duty in this enterprise he can ever
obtain my daughter. Peace, child, peace! He
is bound by an oath—a fearful oath—and
shall he now retract ? Silly girl ! will
he not return to thee unharmed ? Boland—
come 1
”
“ I fear—I fear,” sobbed Julia. “ Father,
why will you not spare him ?”
“ He cannot, Julia, he cannot,” interrupted
Boland; “ nor do1 wish him. You are to be won
by this night’s service, and may I never see
your dear face again if I hold back from the
condition 1 I am boundevery way and all ways
to this night’s duty. I share but a general
danger, and I were eternally defamed to hold
\
4TCHEBL1T . 159
for aa instant back. Think of this, dear Julia I
think of disgrace."
“ Away r cried Rnmbald, advancing; “ do
you know what it is yon are about. The
time is past that we ought to be awaiting him.
-Master Rockingham, this backwardness is
nun to the cause: Sir Roland, let us not
plaice the worst construction on your delay.
A w ay! Away if yon regard either life or re­
putation.”
Rockingham, with a frown of authority,
laid his hand on Roland’s arm and drew him
away from Julia. As he was drawn from her
embrace she uttered a shriek and fell fainting
into the arms of Cecilia. Roland, fixing upon
her a look in which grief was mingled with
unwillingness to leave her, threw his cloak has­
tily over his shoulder and strode after her
father out of the apartment.
They found the rest of the conspirators,
Atcherley included,grouped around a few trees
which flanked the _road, and whioh threw
160 ATCHBBJLET.
sufficient shade to effectually concealthose who
trusted to their concealment.
“ I cun guess at what delayed yon,” said
Atcherley, as they came up. “ Many tears I
warrant thrown away for ns yet little occasion.
Let her wait, Boland,” he added, in a whisper,
“ let her wait; perhaps your part of Fate’s
wheel has yet to grind the dual: time will
show.”
There was something ominous in the sarcas­
tic tone in which these words were uttered.
Boland looked at Atcherley, but hud not time
to ask what he meant.
“ Our watch is cold,” saidBombald in a low
tone.
“ It is so at present,” returned Atcherley ;
“ but we shall be warmenough in a short time.
Hark 11 think I heard horses.”
“ No,” said Bookingham, “ it is the wind
rushing through yonderdump oftrees.”
A pause of some duration ensued, during
which nothing was to be heard but the
ATCHKBLET. 161
motion of the leaves and the hum of the
distant wind. Th e sky was fall of slowly
drifting clouds, and the pale moon was hidden
for the present behind a cloud of an extraor­
dinary size.
A t length the ramble of distant wheels was
borne heavily down with the wind. All started
as if they had received an electric shock. A
subdued bat earnest whispering immediately
took jdace,
*
*H e wind brings ns down,” said Atcherley,
“ the first xnnrmor of Fate’s chariot wheels.
"We most secure the goddess.”
*
*Hush 1
” said Rockingham, “ this is but as
ill-chosen time for jesting. Gentlemen, look
to your arms; the moment approaches to put
them to proof. Had not half our number bet­
ter take take advantage of the present dark­
ness and go over to the other side of the road P
The attack must be made at once; and the
word for engaging shall be, ‘the day of reck­
oning is cornel”
A.TCHEHLEY.
'' A good proposition.” said Sutnbald, “ and
we will adopt it. 1 will keep ward upon the
other side. Be yon the person, Master Rock­
ingham, to giro the word: a dozen swords shall
leap from the hedge. So; they are too distant
to observe us. To the other side, my brethren !
the moment approaches for you to show your­
selves men. At the word, do you all throw off
your cloaks and dart upon the carriage.
Mind not the grooms, the carriage is your
quarry.”
Rumbald, followed by half the conspirators,
crept over to the other side of the road, where
they were concealed by the shadow of the
hedges. The murmur.of distant wheels had
now heightened into a rattle, and the royal
carriage, surrounded by a few horsemen, could
be indistinctly discerned advancing along the
road.
• The ambush now prepared themselves for the
attack; scabbards soonbecame empty, firelocks
were cocked and levelled, and pistols drawn
A’TCHEI 163
from the bells in which they had been depo­
sited. Fresh cloudsdrifted over the moon, and
it would have been quite impossible, even had
suspicion been awake, to have perceived
those who were thus lying in wait for their
victims.
The whispers of the band sank into silence;
the carriage drove nearer, and the clatter of
hoofs was heard close upon the road. Not a
hand stirred among the conspirators. At last
the rattle of the horses’ feet drew close to the
ambush, and a cloaked horseman cantered
swiftly past. Without looking to the right or
left he hastened forwards. This horseman was
the King.
“ The carriage, you say, the carriage is our
object of attack,,” said Walcot, “ Who is that
horseman ?”
“ An outrider merely,” said Atcherley
quickly. "H e gallops forward to show the
road; for, strange as it may appear, the car­
riage goes without light. Be silent and steady;
ATCBERLBY.
far see, the King— the King himself is
coming 1”
The carriage drove up at this instant. It
was surrounded by a few horsemen, hut not in
military dress.
“ The day of reckoning is come,” cried
Rockingham loudly, and at the word—quick
as lightning—the conspirators from both sides
rushed out of their concealment.
All instantly became noise and confusion.
The King’s attendants, taken wholly by sur­
prise, seemed for the first moment panic*
•tricken; but they soon recovered themselves,
and reining in their plunging horses, drew
their swords and began to lay about them.
Balls began to whiz, pistols to crack and steel
to clash. In the midst of the oonfusion voices
wera heard loudly shouting to the postillions
to drive on. These orders were vain, lor one
of the postillions received a ball in his breast
and instantly fell, and die other, entangled
with the horses, which being high-spirited
ATCHZBLET. 165
amimak began to plunge and rear, lost hie
saddle and fell under their trampling hoofs.
The combat meantime proceeded with ana-
hating fury. Bockingham and Boland, who
fought ride by ride, after bringing two of the
King’s men down to the ground, cut their
way to the carriage door, and were each en­
deavouring to open it. Atoherley could not
be seen among the plnnges of the horses, the
shouts of the men, the cries of the attacking
party, who were evidently getting the best of
it, the clinking of the swords, the clash of ar­
mour, the reports of the firelocks and pistole,
and the jets of smoke, which, mingling toge­
ther, roiled over the melee and, aided by the
darkness, revealed little more than the flashes
of the fire-arms and the glimmer of thrusting
steel.
Just at this important moment a heavy
tramping seemed to Bhake the earth, and be­
fore the hearers—who amid the din and the
excitement of the engagement had not before
ATC1BESLRT.
distinguished it—could exactly make oat what
caused it, an instant and sweeping rush of ca­
valry broke like a storm into the crowd, and
momentarily separated both the attacked and
attacking parties into fragments. The Life
Guards hadjust rode op at the gallop, and their
broadswords were to be seen flashing above the
heads of the conspirators. It was in the very
centre of the fight that the voice of Atcherley
was to be heard high above the noise this new
accession of force to the King’s parly in­
duced.
“ Ye who love your lives 1
" he cried, *
*Sol­
diers of Liberty I Off to the house! These
cavaliers will find it difficult to leap the fences
which surround ye. Away 1
—away and shift
eaeh man for himself!"
The din was for a minute redoubled, but
Atcherley’a happy suggestion was for the most
part obeyed. Two-thirds of the conspirators
were able to extricate themselves, and, clam­
bering over the hedges, they were soon at the
ATCrtEHLEY. 1 6 7
doors of the Rye House. Those who were
not so fortunate were either cut down in the
road or made prisoners.
Among the former were Atcherley, Roland >
and Rockingham. They rushed into the house,
and began instantly to shut up all the doors
and windows. The noise without, however,
after a momentary cessation seemed to come
nearer.
“ W e shall have them here directly,” cried
Atcherley ;* the windows of this room seem to
face the noise. Throw open the shutters, and
let us fire a volley upon them.”
“ Had we not better hold all fast?” said
Roland ; “ these doors will resist them for some
time ”
“ Madness, man!”exclaimed Atcherley, ,four
only hope is in driving them away. Our de­
fences will not Bustain five minutes’ siege.
Open the windows; they are just below
them.”
The windows were thrown open, just as a
ATCHK&LST*
violent battery was comments®! on the doom
fronting the road.
“ Now then ire on them I fire on them I”
cried Rockingham, “ The blood-hounds are
bribing up irons to force the doors. Away
with some of them to the devils that await
them I”
“ Surrender P
*cried a loud voioe from with­
out, “ or ye are all dead men. They viewer
not. Batter away, my merry men, this hor­
net's nest is ours P
The demand to surrender was answered by
the reports of half a dozen firelocks and pistols.
The smoke oleared away, and the attack on
the doors was renewed.
"W e had better commend ourselves to the
powers above," Baid Atcherley Boiling. "W e
shall be smoked out of osur hive as mm m
powder answers to flash. Hark! they have
begun again.”
“ Down to the hall!” exclaimed Rocking­
ham, “ down to the hall I Our doors we cannot
ATCBEBLEY. 1 6 9
m aintain; but we can heartily welcome the
first who get in. When the oak gives way we
must hold our citadel at the points of our
swords and the muzzles of our fire-arms. If
we can repulse them for a minute we may es­
cape from the back of the house. Away, men,
to the hall 1
—blood must redden its floor.”
T he whole party rushed downstairs, just as
a violent blow broke open one of the leaves
of the heavy oaken door. Half-a-dozen grim
faces were to be seen without. Pistols were
presented, and the hall was filled with the
rattle of their reports, as well as with clouds
of smoke.
The other leaf of the door could not long
sustain the incessant hammering from without.
It creaked, splintered, cracked, groaned, and
finally fell with a frightful crash, bringing all
its ringing defences down to the ground along
with it. ✓
A number of armed men, in the splendid uni­
form of the Life Guards, instantly rushed into
von. in. i
ATCBKKUnr.
the hall and commenced an eager tilt with its
few and scattered defenders. An officer of
the king's party soon received Roland's rap’er
in his breast, and Roland’s sword-hand was at
that moment wounded by a stroke from a sol­
dier's weapon. Resistance became more ar.d
more feeble on the side of the party assailed.
Three fourths of the haU were already in pos­
session of the soldiers. Atcherley gradually
fought his way towards Rockingham and
Roland, who now had four antagonists to deal
with. Their hearts were cheered at what
they deemed this timely help; but Rocking­
ham at this moment received a wound in the
shoulder which caused him to stagger back.
“ Thus I end onr tragedy,” cried Atcherley,
striking Rockingham on the back of the head
with the butt-end of one of his pistols. The
blow stunned the party at whom it had been
aimed, and he fell heavily to the ground.
Roland had witnessed the blow. He started
as if a fiend direct from Hell had risen up
oe
ATCHERLET. 1 7 1
before Mm and struck him with the Sceptre
of the Bang of Evil: a thunderbolt could not
have more completely paralized his every
faculty. For a moment he lost all his self-*
possession, and gazing with statue-like aston­
ishment at Atcherley, he helplessly dropped
the crimsoned point of his weapon.
MThe game is struck,” cried Atcherley,
with a smile which might base rivalled that ofa
devil. “ This prostrate wretch isin yonrpower;
you can fetter him at your leisure. Seize the
other’s weapon, and let his majesty thank me
for having delivered two of the most arrant
rebels in Us dominions into his royal hands.”
Boland’s sword was immediately snatched
out of Us passive hand: it was an easy task,
for he seamed alike incapable of thought or re­
sistance. Two or three of the military raised
Rockingham from the ground; and though
gradually recovering his consciousness and en­
deavouring to free himself of the grasp of
those who held him, be was soon overpowered
i 3
atch er let;
and bound with cords which one of the soldiers
drew from his pockets.
Meantime Boland shared a similar fate.
Before he had time to recover his recollection
his arms were closely pinioned; and a guards­
man on each side of him with drawn broad­
sword, ensured his capture beyond all hope
of recovery.
“ The traitorous attempt upon the king’s
life,” said Atcherley, “ has recoiled upon the
heads of those who attempted it. This old
house is in your power, gentlemen. Rjmove
your prisoners, who I assure you are the heads
of the conspiracy. His majesty will acknow­
ledge that I have done him signal service.
Affairs call me hence on the instant. I wait
upon the king to-morrow at an early hour.
With whom you find here, you may do as you
please j I commit the finishing of the affair to
you.”
Saying these words Atcherley quitted the
hall witli haste, and ascended the stairoase to
ATCUEBLEY. 173
at upper room, where he found Mrs. Rumbald,
Julia Rockingham, and her attendant Cecilia ;
all in the most terrible agitation, and awaiting
intelligence of what had occurred below with
the greatest impatience.
“ All is lost,” said Atcherley, without
waiting to be questioned. “ The house is in
the power of the blood-hounds that have
tracked us. Mrs. Rumbald, thy husband is
prisoner or escaped; I know not which. No
time is to be lost if we wish for escape. Julia,
thy father and Roland have been driven from
the house; the soldiers have cut off all commu­
nication with the great staircase. In the
confusion of the scene I saw Roland and your
father hewing their way forward; but numbers
prevailed, they were driven back, and were
only able to fight their way from the back of
the hall. All hope is over. Hark! I hear our
people still struggling below. One only chance,
of escape remains. From the next chamber
leads a secret passage to the outside of the
ATCHERLST.
house. I and Bombald are only acquainted
with it: my hones can be soon procured.
Clear of th e house we may find and rejoin
your father and B oland. This is no tim e for
ceremony. Julia, will you go with me?”
“ Oh where—where is my father?” cried
Julia, her hands clasped in agony.
“ I trust escaped. Delay not, bat let me
guide yon to him.”
“ Could Roland leave the house without
me?”
“ Leave T echoed Atoherley j “ he hud no
choice. His instant death must have been
otherwise certain; you he knew they would
spare and treat with respect But they are
without; we can go to them: only for God’s
sake do not delay.”
“ My husband is in the power of the blood­
thirsty king I” cried Mrs. Rumbald, her eyes
streaming with team “ I will share his fate.”
“ But y * u have no reason to remain, Julia,”
urged Atoherley. •*Why do you delay to
ATCHEBLBY. 175
fellow me ? Here, take my arm—a moment
or two will see us in safety.”
“ I cannot—dare not do it,” said Julia
firmly, and starting up. MOh God! Oh
God! I oannot—cannot help distrusting you.
That distrust brought me here. 1 feared
thee then and fear thee now. By all your
hopes of mercy,” she continued, sinking on
her knees and catching bold of Atcherley’s
cloak, “ tell me where they are ?”
“ Escaped—without; and thon wilt not
follow them!”
“ No I I will not believe thee,” she cried,
starting to her feet. “ A hundred swords
would not have made Boland leave the house
without me: and leave me ia thy power, too!
Thou art not what thon appearest. I
must see Roland and my father before I quit
this room.”
“ Believe that they are in the power of the
bloodhounds who have dogged their footsteps,”
cried Mrs. Rumbald. “ Believe that they will
176 ATCHERLEY.
be dragged to the scaffold, and that the woe is
complete! Why should we fly? whithershould
we fly?”
“ Julia, Julia,” cried Atcherley, furiously,
“ this is worse than madness1 Once more,
wilt thou accompany inef*
“ Leave me—leave me where I am,” she an­
swered. “ I quit not in thy company.”
“ Then the truth must out—though I have
tried to conceal it. Prepare for the worst.
Boland is—”
“ Oh God!—not dead! Not killed! Do
not drive me mad by saying he is killed.”
“ My blood freezes as I answer—he is
killed!”
Julia heard no more. With a loud shriek
she swooned away, and was caught as she was
falling by Atcherley. Throwing his arm around
her waist, and freeing bis sword-hand from the
folds of his cloak, he darted out of the room,
crossed the landing, and entering an opposite
chamber touched a spring in the wainscot.
ATCHEBLEY. 1 7 7
which, flying back, discovered a passage and
stairs constructed in the thickness of the wall.
The panel through which hefledclosedinstantly
behind him; and his hasty footsteps died
away gradually into silence, as he threaded the
passage and descended the dark and winding
staircase.
ATCHBBLKT.
178
CHAPTER VIII.
“ W hat work’s, my countrymen, in hand t W here
go you
W ith bats and clubs1 The m atter t Speak, I pray
you.”
C oriolam u. Act 1. Scene 1.
“ Goodfriends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
Tosucha sudden flood of mutiny.”
JiM u s C a m t. Act 3. Scene 2.
“ F ang— A rescue! A rescue 1
Hotteu.—Good people, b ill* a rescue or two.”
H enry I V . (Second P art) Act 2. Scene 1.
W i most nowturn oar attention to Roland Tor-
rington, whomwe left in the power of the royal
pulled, and about to be conveyed away under a
ATCBBfiLEY. 179
too easilyestablishedchargeofhightreason. The
youthful victim to feeling, impulse and circum­
stance, was immured within the gloomy pre­
cincts of Newgate. This Atcherley knew, and
that he was about to be removed, previous to
trial and (calculating reasonably) execution, to
the Tower of London.
It was on a day about this time that a strong
detachment of the King’s Life Guards was
inarched to the great gate oi the gloomy me­
tropolitan prison. It was understood by the
crowd which gradually gathered about the
troopers and before ,the building, that two or
perhaps more of the conspirators were about
to be removed at the same time. But the in­
tentions of the authorities were different.
Rockingham and several others of the Rye
House party who were located in the same
place of confinement, were reserved for trial at
another and perhaps a fitter season. Roland
as a baronet, moreover, was the only one of the
number honoured (an honour that he would
• ATCHEBLEY.
doubtless have gladly dispensed with) witha
'lodging in the Tower: and he was now to be
conveyed alone to that dark and blood-stained
structure, which has witnessedsomuch misery,
'injustice and tyranny.
■ Afull half-hour elapsedbeforethebustleabout
the gate and the eager closing together of the
people announced that the prisoner was coming.
Little could be seen of the portal from which
*he was to issue, owing to the close order in
'which the soldiers weredrawn up, the momently
increasing and wavy crowd, and the huge side
of the lumbering carriage, which with its four
horses was destined to convey the person in
'custody to his next place of confinement At
•length the steps were heard to be rattled down
—the windows of the houses opposite and on
each side of the prison at that moment flew
open, and the listless and capless heads of the
curious neighbours were eagerly thrust out, to
catch, if possible, a sight of the unfortunate
captive. A whisper ran through the swaying
ATCHEHLF.Y. 181
crowd, while the gaolers stood on each side of
the carriage door, and the troopers backed and
pranced their horses to make the confused and
thickening assemblage give way.
A pause of a moment or two then ensued
and presently half a dozen persons successively
emerged from the portal, and last of all the
prisoner, guarded before, on each side and
behind by a tall and martial-looking hal­
berdier. Without looking either to the 'right
or left, and apparently anxious to escape all
notice, Boland Torrington stepped hastily into
the carriage, and the glasses were immediately
put up by the officers who were to ride with
^him.
, At the word of command the horse-
soldiers wheeled into marching order, and the
postillions put their horses in motion. The
cavalcade began to move forward at a trotting
pace; but the crowd was so thick that it was
obliged to fall off into a .walk. The orders of
the military to clear the way, were as loud and
frequent asthey were imperatative.
ATCHE&LEY.
The crowd appeared to take these com­
mands, so despotically urged, in high dudgeon
—and many black and evil-boding looks were
exchanged between those belonging to the pro­
cession and the multitude. Political fading at
that time ran high; and, all things consilered,
it was as dangerous as injudicious a proceeding
to attempt to remove prisoners who had the
popular current in their favour, in so open and
careless a manner. The river was the usual
means of transport between the various
metropolitan prisons and the Tower; and what
induced the present deviation from usage it
were perhaps useless and tedious to attempt
to trace. At the top of the street the crowd
was augmented by a collection of some of the
lowest characters that were to be found in the
holes and corners of the metropolis.
It was easy to be seen the proceedings of
the government excited in the crowd feelings
as active as they were hostile. The great
bulk of the people were at that time greatly
ATCHB&LRY. 183
incensed. Setting aside the shocks which
liberty had received, all did not merely think,
but were thoroughly and entirely convinced
that the church and their Protestant religion
were in danger. That the immediate successor
to the crown was a Papist was enough of
itself to warrant the belief, and though it
was artfully propagated that the design of the
Rye House conspirators was to kill the king,
and consequently lay open the succession to
the obnoxious Duke of York, the people were
persuaded that the contrary was the truth; that
thechiefdesignwasthe'setting aside histitle, and
raising the Duke of Monmouth to the dignity
which it was thought dangerous and an out­
raging of religion for the king’s brother, with
the religious principles which he openly pro­
fessed, to fill.
It is well known that the Duke of Mon­
mouth was highlypopular, and it is very natural
that men arming in his cause and in the name
ATCHEBLEY.
of liberty, religion, and the laws, should be
looked upon as martyrs when brought out for
a trial which every one was persuaded would
terminate in their sacrifice to the Moloch of
Popery and despotism.
The ferment of the populace was gradually
but surely rising, like the ocean when awak­
ening from its sullen state of repose to the
fury of the tempest The soldiers began to
be more unceremonious, and pressing briskly
forward they endeavoured to force their way
through the stern and unyielding mass. In
this manner, but with some increase of speed,
the cavalcade contrived to reach Cheapside^ and
here, the street being wider, the soldiers broke
off from that close proximity to the carriage
which they had hitherto preserved, and began
to drive the crowd before them with the flat
of their broadswords. The people of England
were ever peculiarly olive to the invasion of
their persona: they wUl bear much, but seldom
ATCHERLEY. 1 8 5
put up with blows. An alteration for the worse
was directly perceivable in the temper of the
crowd. The military were now saluted with
groans,execrations,andhisses; butas yet no pro­
jectile was hazarded against them. In this
manner, with difficulty enough, but still with­
out any very material obstruction, the carriage
and the soldiery trotted through Cheapside,
and were rapidly nearing the Poultry and that
part of the thoroughfare where a number of
streets converge.
Here the crowd was joined by a number
of the rabble of the City, who had become
aware of the removal of the prisoner to the
Tower, and had rushed out in a swarm,
like bees from a hive, to testify their Bense
of the conduct of the government. This
rabble, joined to the old multitude, made an
awful mob : as lawless as such assemblages
generally are, and equally as intent on and
desirous of mischief. It seems a necessity
that a great crowd cannot disperse without
atchkhlet.
an outbreak of some description. A crowd
appears like a large and formidable engine
when put in motion, which must work upon
something, though the destruction of its own
contriver . be what it effects. Shouts and
cries began to be bandied about
“ NoPopery!” “ No Idolatry!” “ Tor-
rington for ever 1
” “ Monmonth for ever 1”
“ Down with the bloody Papists!” “ Down
with the persecutors!”
It is astonishing, when one has led the
way, how soon the multitude find their hearts
and follow. The first cry was repeated by only
a dozen'- voices, ad these all in one quar­
ter ; bat no sooner had the ice been broken
by some more reckless or more daring than
the rest, than the shouts deobled and re­
doubled, till the groanb, ones, and other
modes of expressing popular displeasure,
were general and deafening, and ait last deep­
ened into a roar like the roar of the sea, con­
tinuing with little or no intermission.
ATCHKHLEY. 187
The mob began to be unruly—it waved to
and fro more actively than before; bats were
taken off to oheer the prisoner, angry gestures
w ere discernible in the mass, and the crowd
began to show symptoms of a determination
to forcibly obstruct the further progress of the
procession. Matters began to look serious.
At this moment acomparatively trifling inci­
dent decided the fate of the day. Just as the
carriage neared one of the turnings, a party
of oneof thedifferent sects of the religionists
which were to be found in plenty in the me­
tropolis, was returning from the conventicle
where they imJ haem holding some week-day
exercise or other, usd was essaying a passage
over the crossing. While driving back some
of the crowd who appeared more noisy and
mischievous than the rest, the Guards hap­
pened, in nautical language, to run fool of
one or two of the most forward members of
the sectarian party, and to overset one who
had been looking the contrary way, and been,
ATCHKRLF.Y.
under these circumstances, taken uoawares by
the soldier’s horse. A loud cry was imme­
diately raised by his brethren, from under
whose cloudy brows gleams of Indignant hatred
shot forth upon the sacrilegious trooper and
still more sacrilegious horse.
The insulted party started to Lis feet again
in a trice; but it was to lay his hand on his
sword, and to call upon his followers for a
confirmation of his rage. All these directly
lent the aid of their voices to the uproar which
was nowraging fearfully arouud. Yells, groans,
and outcries of every description echoed far
and wide; the windows of all the houses flew
open; and everything seemed to threaten a
general tumult.
All was now one mass of heads, some with
hats on and many bare—the coverings of the
latter being held boldly aloft, and waved to
and fro with enthusiasm. The carriage could
no longer proceed—it was inextricably wedged
in the middle of the vast sea of hats and heads.
ATCHERLEY. 189
The soldiers could however be seen, with com­
pressed lips and lowering brows, prancing their
horses in the mass and flushing their swords
above the heads of the rioters. At each bound
forward of the heavy troop horses, the crowd—
densely packed as it was - could be seen to
wave like a field of corn with the wind flying
over it. At each passionate rear and plunge
of the horses, an awful groan burst from the
mass of people, and in one or two instances the
soldiers could be seen being grappled with by
the mob, struggling like children in their arms,
and torn down from the animals they bestrode.
The confusion now was frightful: mingled
with the uproar, there were to be heard the
snapping reports of the pistols and carabines
of the soldiery. The latter appeared like
glittering points in a wide and rushing tide
of dingy hats. Humours began to fly about
the edge of the crowd that several unfortunate
creatures had been shot or trampled down,
some by the horses, some by the mob, in the
190 ATCHBBLEY.
centre of this scene of tumult. W
indow*
shatters were closing in ewer; direction, and
the inhabitants were quickly disappearing from
the windows.
The guard was evidently too small to pro­
tect the carriage from the attacks of the popu­
lace. While they htrnted the crowd away
from around it, a fresh and eager mass from
behind rushed forward to the back of the
coach and began to clamber its wheels, roof,
and sides. When the soldiers spurred back
their chargers and began to dose around and
to cut at the men that hung upon it, the party
which had been driven back returned with a
dreadful rush, and almcst overturned the horses
that drew it. First one postillionwas knocked
from his horse; and then the second was laid
hold of and pulled down by a dozen hands.
The hubbub and confusion was nowfrightful.
The crowd was so great and tumultuous about
the carriage, that even had they been willing
the soldiers could have done nothing for its
ATCHSBLBT. 191
preservation. The rabble seemed best upon
pulling it to pieces. Boland and the two
officers who rode with him, as may be ima­
gined, were in a state of great excitement.
“ By Jove, this is pleasant!” cried one—
“ we can’t go on. What shall we do?”
“ Do!—d—d if I can tell!” returned the
other. Boland threw himself back in the car­
riage with his arms folded, determined to let
things take their course.
“ Now then,” shouted two or three men
outside, “ the carriage is your own, boys.
Knock those skulking constables on the head!
Set free the prisoner! Tear the coach to
pieces! Liberty for ever! Down with the
blood-thirsty Papists!*
These cries were followed by the smashing
of one of the coach-blinds; and half a dozen
grim and dirty faceB were discovered staring
into the coach. Bough hands were wrenching
the handle of the door, while half a score of
iron crows, and all sorts of implements of much
192 ATCHEHLEY.
the same description, rained a shower of blows
on the groaning, cracking, and splitting panels.
One of the officers started to his feet, and
thrust a horse-pistol oat of the window.
“ By—!” he cried, “ if you don’t instantly
move off. 111 blow out the brains of the near­
est man to me’*
A hoarse laugh followed this threat,
“ Fire away you d——d fool1 your crack's
soon spent. Pull the coach to pieces! pull
’em all to pieces 1
”
The officer fired, as a hail of blows wa9
showered ou the devoted carriage. The door
was tom open, and half of the front shaken to
pieces.
The officer who had fired was now pulled
out of the carrriage like a child: and a hun­
dred tierce-looking figures were preparing to
do the same by Roland, but with a different
intention.
“ Come out—out with you and save your­
self! The soldiers are wheeling round to
ATCHBBUCV. 193
charge u& Ban, ran for jour life!” vooifer-
ated a Babel of coarse and different voices.
“ You won’t be perceived in the crowd. Fly,
jump to the water aide, and get over the river
as fast as you can 1
”
" 1 am bound to abide the result of my
trial, my masters," cried Boland. “ I thank
you all most sincerely for your good intentions,
but if I fly I shall only increase the danger of
my situation and aggravate the suspicions
against me. Disperse, my good friends: you
don’t know what you have done. The city
will be upon you in a minute."
“ Are you mad ?” shouted the nearest of the
mob. “ Do you want to be hanged ? for that’s
your fate as sure as the sun’s shining now.”
“ What’s the matter with the fellow?’*others
called out “ Won’t he go? pull him out and
make himl If he won’t thank us now for
what we’re doing for him, he’ll thank us by
and bye. Full him out, you there in front:
VOL. m . s
ATCHERLEY.
tike him up and carry him. Look sharp, my
masters: there’ll be knives on oar heads la a
minute!”
Roland sat irresolute for an instant: but
urged by the eager multitude, and alive to bis
present chance ofescape, he started up, jumped
out of the carriage, and plunged into the
middle of the crowd with half-a-dozen of his
new friends before him. 4. passage was with
some difficulty made through the mob: but be
got through seemingly unperceived by the
soldiers, and in a minute or two he was in the
edge of the crowd.
“ Now off with you as fast as you can
toddle!” cried one or two of his rescuers:
“ take all the blind ways you can, double like
a fox, get down to the water, and my life on’t
you won’t be strung up this bout. Clap down
your beaver, and run like a stag! Bravo!
Hurrah 1
”
Roland did not pause, but did as he was ad­
vised. Plunging through a variety of courts
ATCHERLBY. 195
and lanes, which he now saw for the first time,
he directed his course towards the Thames,
and after much difficult; found himself ol®»#
to one of the stairs that line the banks of the
river
K 3
196 AKCSEBLET.
CHAPTER IX.
" Tom, away:
Mark the high noises, and thyself bewray
When Mse opinion, whose wrong thought defiles
thee,
In thy just proof, repeals, and reconciles thee.”
King Lear. Act iii. Scene 6.
“ You lira well encounter’d here, my cousin Mow­
bray.”
Henry IV. ( Second Pari.) Act iv. Scene 2.
T he waterm en, as Roland walked down to­
wards the stairs, began as usual to set up the
cry, “ Boat, sir,” “ B oat, your honour,” in
answer to which ready proffers o f service he
ATCBEBL2Y. \vt
simply nodded, and stepped into the nearest'
wherry. The waterman pulled as earnestly as
if he had been really aware of the necessity
there was for exertion; and in a short time
Boland was landed on the opposite side of the
river, and was threading the dingy lanes of the
north-western part of Southwark.
After walking at a quick pace for half an
hour, Roland stopped and began to look
around him, uncertain where he was and in
what direction to go. He had several friends
in London, and to one of these, after some de­
bate with himself, he determined to apply for
assistance. He was indeed doubtful whether
they might be inclined to take any notice
of him, as he had so recently been appre­
hended in the company of men who bad made
an actual attempt upon the life of the King.
Of course, should their view of his conduct
be so unfavourable, he would be classed by
them as one, and perhaps as the basest, as
being the most superior in rank, of the aseas-
ATGBBKLSr.
sins. This however, as be acknowledged to
himself, he was obliged to hazard. If he bent
his steps toward the country, he knew not
where to go or where to seek for safety, and
was, at the same time, doubly exposed to the
chances of detection and re-arrest.
His mind was in a perfect chaos:—fears for
JnliaandRockingham,ofwhosefatehehadheard
nothing, but for whom he dreaded the worst,
made such a constant warfare in his thoughts,
that lie was almost incapable of directing
himself evenin an instance the most immedi­
ate and the most pressing. One moment, as
lie had heard nothing of her since he was
carried offfrom the Rye House, he fancied die
must be in safety, but this hope was the next
instant thrown down, and he feared and
anticipated the very worst. Ateherley was
like a serpent in his imagination. He was
astounded at his most exquisite viliany, for
which he could assign no possible reason, and
he burned with the most constant and teasing
ATCHEBLET. 199
desire to call him to account for all his com­
plicated nets of deceit and treachery.
Alight hadbroken in upon his brain while agi­
tated with all these thoughts in prison. He was
now convinced, and bis heart sankwithin him at
the conviction, that Atcherley had been all
along deeply attached to his ownintended bride,
and had now brought this ruin upon him and
her father to put them both out of the way,
and to bring about his hellish designs with the
greater probability of success. He had been
ready to tear his prison door, when he thought
that Julia—his Julia—was in the power of
the false friend who had crushed him and all
his hopes, and was perhaps at that momeut
calling upon him for assistance and rescue.
At these times Roland would gnash his teeth,
strike his hand against his forehead, and close
his fingers upon his palms with so much force,
that the print of his nails would leave a mark
which would remain for hours after the
paroxysm of despair and writhing anguish had
ATCB^KLET*
passed over that gave rise to the tempest is his
mind. He would curse his folly and himself
over and over again, and writhe in violent but
useless vexation, till like a caged tiger be was
ready to tear to pieces the first human crea­
ture he saw. Oh that he could get on the
other side of that grated window and iron-
bound door ! the stroke which would avenge
him would be too sure to need repetition.
He envied every fiy that buzzed without, and
in his rage and wild impatience he burst in
his mind’s eye out of the cage in which he
was shut up, and painted pictures to himself
of what he would do were be but in the
open air and a free agent. To m s meta­
phor, his mind was actually being grated and
rusted away in his confinement.
'•To Mm this dungeon was a gulph.
And fetter’d feet the worst of ills."
How madly insensible he thought he had been
ATCHEEIXT. 201
of the blessing of doing what he liked, and
goin g where he pleated I
Roland had been so accustomed to rely for
everything upon Ms friend Atcherley, that self -
confidence and self-dependence were something
entirely new to him. The injurious tendency
o f such unlimited reliance upon another was
now most painfully evident to him. For
want of the exercise, and from the habit of
leaning so much upon the advice, suggestions
and resources of another, he wm almost wholly
unfitted for directing himself. His character
as hitherto had had no opportunity of dis­
playing itself, it had had no opportunities
of acquiring strength, and he was now, totally
unaided, to take his first lesson in the stern
realities of life in a situation of the most
bewildering perplexity and danger. He now
blamed exceedingly that indolence of spirit
which had made him look to the counte­
nance and help of another instead of bis own
independent resources. He made many reso-
s 5
ATCHE&LET.
lotions for the future, and determined to break
through the bonds which he bad allowed to be
imposed upon him; to think and act for him­
self, and revolutionise his whole character.
Thoughts upon all these points occupied
his mind as he walked quickly forward:—as if
even to justify the strength and durability of
his resolutions to himself by the firmness and
quickness of his pace. After walking some
time he found himself in the neighbourhood
of Lambeth, and he instantly determined to
again cross the river, and betake himself to the
apartments of one of his friends who lived is
the western part of Chelsea. This friend was
in fact a young man who had been an officer
attached to the regiment of horse in which
Roland had served in former and happier
times. There was an old and hereditary
friendship between these two young men, for
the gentleman he was now going to seek waa
the son of a Sir Peter Waldegrave, a land­
holder of considerable estate in Derbyshire
ATCHERLE';; 2 0 3
and a follower of the Court. Sir Peter batl
been an old and valued friend of Boland’s
father; and the intimacy had been perpetuated
in the persons of their sons.
Boland aeccordingly bent his steps to the
river side, and walked along the smooth and
willow-bordered road which led from Lam­
beth Palace to Battersea. He wished to seek
as retired a ferry as he could, and to pass over
as unobserved as possible.
He had proceeded about two miles along
this road when he heard the sounds of a horse
behind him, and looking instinctively round
perceived a horseman cantering towards him.
A misgiving crossed his mind for a moment
that the Btranger was some person or other
who had traced him thus far from the city
and was come out to re-apprehend him. Full
of this unpleasant idea, but making up his
mind to the worst, he turned round, and
walked on as unconcernedly as he could appear
to do.
ATCHEBLEY.
At length the stranger neared him, and was
in the act of passing. Boland stole a glance
at him from under his eyebrows, and his eye
fell as he observed that the eye of the horse­
man was fixed intently upon him. Boland
however mustered up his courage, and was
preparing to give another glance when the
stranger suddenly pulled up his horse, drew
him towards the footpath, and called out—
“ Why bless my soul, Boland ! can this be
you?”
Boland looked him full in the face, and
recognised the very friend he was going to
s e e k n o other person in fact than Sir Edgar
Waldegrave.
“ How got you here in the name of all
that is wonderful ?” reiterated Sir Edgar.
“ Hush! be cautious for God’s sake if you
wish to save my life,” said Roland in rusher.
“ I was going to seek you.”
“ Then this is a lucky overtaking of mine ;
for had you gone to Chelsea you would have
ATCHERLEY. 2 0 5
found me absent:—yes, and absentfor a week!
I thought 1 knew the cut of your figure as I
rode up, and I was looking to make sure.”
“ I was coming to ask your assistance. I
really need it,” said Roland. “ You have
heard all I suppose?” he added with some
hesitation.
He looked to Sir Edgar, uncertain what re­
ception his enquiry would meet with.
“ To be sure I have !” said Sir Edgar, “ and
heard too much of it. You have been a fool,
Roland, begging your pardon for the word,
but it’s deserved. I knew directly that you
had been practised upon by some discon­
tented firebrands ; but when they attempted
to make me believe you were mad enough to
join in the assassination business, by Jove I
fairly laughed in their faces 1 You’ve run into
mischief though after all:—you’ve been too
much of a republican, Roland. You’ve got on
too fast.”
ATCHBHLEY.
“ I bare been grossly—devilishly practised
on, that is certain,” said Boland.'
“ I am glad that you intended to apply to
me and nobody else,” said Sir Edgar. “ I'll
get you out of this scrape if I can, though
I can’t do much. But you stand in rather a dan­
gerous predicament just now 1 can assure you.
Yon wonder at my looking back so often, at
least you look puzzled with it—Don’t be
alarmed. The short and long of it is that
the King himself m not far behind me.”
" The King ?—Good heavens I is it possible?
And I here!’’
“ Yes!—and he has a whole legion of his
court people with him as usual. But I’ll
manage so that you shall have a word or two
with him by himself:—that is, with only my­
self as a friend, you know, as an auditor.
Oh he’s kind and gracious as the sun in
heaven if you know how to take him. Two
words will do your business: you don’t want
discretion, at least you did not when I knew
ATCHERLEY. 207
you before, and if you play yonr cards well
old Rowley is so generous, that you may
laugh at all the courts, judges, juries, axes and
executioners in the world. He is not un­
favourably disposed towards you, for some
reason or other that 1 can’t find out. To say
the truth, those rats in office, those black
buckram gown’d devils, bis ministers, egg him
on, and make him sometimes do things that,
poor fellow, he’d never think of if it wasn’t
for them. A friend of yours, too, one Mas­
ter Atoherley;—he’s now, by the bye, the
Lord of Torrington manor, got the house and
land, Roland, got the title, possessions and
everything; aye, and in a most singular way
too I—what was I talking about ?...I’m so out
of breath with my hard riding and the fluster of
this strange and in some respects fortunate
meeting, that I hardly know what I am say­
ing. AhI I know. Well, this friend of yours
has proved friend in court with a venge­
ance.—”
ATCHEBLB7.
“ He is a devil 1
” mattered Boland.
“ No, no ; let ns hope not as you’ve been his
companion so long. Any way he is a very
great villain; bat his services in this last
terrible affair have disposed the King to give
him your title and all belonging to it. His
Majesty thinks very highly of him as I am
told, but is almost afraid of him: he seems
such a prince of Machiavels. Old Rowley
is in an odd mood respecting you ; he thinks
you deserve hanging, but be is disinclined to
string you up. I have done as much as I could
for you, I assure you, since yonr madness be*
came public; and I have a little diminished
His Majesty’s anger, which was at first hot
enough against you.”
“ I thank you fervently,” said Roland. “ 1
would have done as much for you bad our
situations been reversed. I have been all my
life unfortunate. 1 am now at the bottom of
the pit.”
“ Well now keep quiet for aminute or two,”
ATCHERLBY. 2m
said Edgar Waldegrave. “ I’ll back to His
Majesty and let him know a little how the
land lies here. He’s just now in one of his
best tempers, and that’s an excellent thing for
you, and he has been joking my Lord Arch­
bishop up at the palace yonder, till I really
thought the Bight Reverend Prelate would
have run to his windows and thrown them
open to give his laughter room:—politic-
politic, you know—royal jokes always excite
more laughter than other people’s ; there’s more
wit in them 1 The King is going with some
of his dear friends and allies up the Surrey side
of the water to Kew—and then we are off
for Windsor! Good day. Sir Boland, for the
present 1”
And so saying, back galloped Sir Edgar
Waldegrave, leaving Boland to slowly and
pensively proceed.
210 ATCHERLEY.
CHAPTER X.
“ How now, my lord of W orcester t ’tis not well
That yon and 1should meet upon such terms
As now we meet.
This is not well, my lord, this is not well.
W hat say you to't P
Henry IV . First Part) Act 5.
“ Discomfort guides my tongue,
And bids me speak of nothing but despair."
Richard II. Act 3. Scene2.
I t was not long before the sound of horses
upon the bard road behind him, and the cloud
of dust which when be turned his head he
saw driving along the road, warned Roland
that the royal cortege was approaching. In a
ATCHJSRLF.Y. 211
few minutes the horsemen were individually
distinguishable. First rode the King, accom­
panied on one side by Sir Edgar Waldegrave,
and on the other by some gentleman whom
Roland did not know. Roland, as the party
neared him, respectfully paused in his walk
and drew near to the side of the footpath.
Sir Edgar bad been apparently communi­
cating something to His Majesty, for Charles
was turned towards him.
The king and Sir Edgar were something
in advance of the other equestrians when they
came up to the spot on which Roland was
standing. Charles looked hard at him for a
moment or two, and then gently drew in the
magnificent hone on which he rode.
4
1Your name is Roland Torrington is it
not?” said the king, looking keenly but not
sternly at the party he addressed.”
“ Your majesty, it is,” said Roland, bowing
his head: his hat had of course been removed
before bis majesty approached.
ATCHERLEY.
“ And it is your wish to say something to
ns. Fortune has favoured you, young gentle­
man, in our chancing to take this unusual road
to-day, or we should have else been more dif­
ficult of access. Stand back, gentlemen, if
you please: we shall only detain you a mo­
ment or two, but petitioners naturally dislike
a circle of eyes around them when they
have to speak about their distresses. Sir
Elgar you may remain, since it is at your
request and instance that we wait to hear what
this young person has to say.”
The king’s attendants, to the number of
about a dozen gentlemen, reined back their
hones at the king’s command, wad drew re­
spectfully off in a group to the road side.
They were sufficiently distant to be entirely
out of hearing. As they went off, however,
there was a hurried whispering among them,
and one of the company remained for a mo­
ment to speak a word to the king.
ATCHEBLBY. 213
«* Y our majesty is pleased to forget that your
sa fety— ”
“ Safety?” interrupted Charles; “ nonsense
— nonsense! This poor person has no disposi­
tion depend upon it to assault us at present.
B esides here is Sir Edgar Waldegrave, as true
a knight as ever drew steel. To satisfy
yourselves, however, if you like you may take
ilia sword. Give it up, sir, if you please,”
said Charles to Boland, “ when we have done
w ith you we will return it.”
Roland did as he was directed, and handed
the rapier to Sir Edgar, who in turn gave it
over to the gentleman who had suggested the
expedienoe of some such guarantee for his ma­
jesty’# safety.
** Now, sir,” said Charles, as the gentlemen
dnetv o £ rt What have you to say for your­
self? “ Here is Sir Edgar Waldegrave, a
friend of yours, who says that you deny having
ever contemplated our assassination. L et us
hear how this can be established. You
214 ATCHXBLBY.
were arrested with arias in your ham »at i
the company of desperate and bloody traitors.
I have no disposition to be severe upon yon,
and I will compliment your common seme so
far as to suppose that yon have been led into
this vile and sacrilegious conspiracy without
being aware of its real object,”
" If your majesty,” said JRoland, "will
grant me your attention for * few moments,
though I may not be able to convince I
may yet be able to shake yonr majesty’s pre­
sent firm opinion that I am a person likely to
be capable of taking away another man’s life;
a life especially, if I even could be so aban­
doned as to contemplate taking away any man’s
life, that I should the least dream ofassailing.”
“ Firm opinion, man ?” said the king. “ I
■aid that 1 thought you hud been led into the
business not knowing its real object. I sup­
posed, also,that common sente wouldhave with­
held you from assenting to it. Bnt to
tell you a truth, friend—a truth to whioh we
ATCHSttSV. 215
suppose yon were not willing to blind yourself,
we may say with Faulconbridge,
“ W e do notsuspect thee, reiy grievously.’"
If your majesty,” said Boland, “ knew
the hellish conning to which I have been vic­
tim , you would rather I think be inclined to pity
than condemn me. The very man whobetrayed
me to your majesty,coupling my asyet unsullied
name with all that is base and murderous, was
the veryperson wholed me by foul and fiendish
arts to join in the design for reformation of
abuses which I thought was afoot, and not
for taking away your majesty’s royal life,
which God long preserve! By a series of the
most complicated treacheries he has at last
wound round and destroyed me. I am ignor­
ant of the reason of his hate, but this I know
that neither man nor devil ever contemplated
or brought about so refined and total a re-
ATCHE1LEY.
venge. He has brought me perhaps to the
scaffold—he has destroyed my friend—a friend
that was yet to stand in a nearer and dearer
relation to me—and he has carnal off and still
keeps in his accursed custody she who was to
be my bride. I am undone — crashed
—destroyed every way I Let your majesty,
since there is no hope of relief for me, put me
out of the way at once—finish the hateful life
that I bear most unwillingly abont me; for I
stand a desperate man, uncertain whether to
throw myself to the ground in the utter hope­
lessness of despair, or start madly away, with­
out direction or object, to the rescue of her
for whom God knows this instant I would lay
down my life, and of whose place of conceal­
ment, and of whose condition at this moment
—hard, cruel Fate 1 I am yet entirely ignor­
ant I Let your majesty go on : you and yours
;are happy. I am a miserable wretch, o n ly
fearing to perish because 1 leave my love in
danger behind me!”
ATCHJOU.EY. 81?
Boland’s tone and look startled the king;
the intensity anil bitter desperation of Ms ex­
pressions and the misery conveyed in the tone
of his voice were as touching as they were
sudden and surprising. Boland had mastered
himself for a long time, but in a gush of
regret, fury, and despair, all his soul broke out
in a moment. Every word, stamped as it
was with truth, served to thoroughly con­
vince the as yet incredulous king. The tempest
of the soul lays bare the most hidden things
of the mind in an instant:—every thing falls
before it all the barriers which we raise up
to defend ourselves from the observation of
others.
A pause of some time ensued. The king
looked grave, but not displeased.
“ 1am sorry at all this,” said he, “ and I
am as astonished as I am sorry, Ton speak
strange things, young man, things which if
untrue will not be much the better for you.
But don’t think I am harsh or severe. 1 do
von. mi. h
218 ATCHK8LEY.
Lelieve there is really something strange in the
case, and depend upon it I will sift the whole
business thoroughly. You complain of this
man Atcherley, you say he is a villain: all
that you have said against him, and all that
you have advanced he hasdone to you, you are
of course ready to maintain at another time and
in another place.”
“ Only give me the opportunity, my liege,”
said Roland. “ ’Tis a blessing which I pant
for.”
“ Well, we desire to set all this right,” con-
inuei the kings “ but we must proceed fair
and softly; nothing is done well that is done
in a hurry. I must first say something to you
on another subject. How comes it that you
are not in the Tower, Mr. Torrington ? You
were this morning to be removed thither from
our prison of Newgate. As we rode along,
too, we heard something about a riot
in the City, and a skirmish between some sol-
ATCHEBLEY. 2 1 9
diers And a mob. . What wins it, Sir Edgar?
—yon were at oar elbow when the fellow both­
ered ns with it*
Six Edgar respectfully reminded the king of
what had been detailed to him by an express
from the city. The account which had been
given, though true in the main, differedin some,
particulars from what had aotually occurred.
“ Well, you have heard all this. Sir Ro­
land,” said the king, slightly yawning and
looking round him, when Sir Edgar had fin­
ished. “ We suppose that you were, one way
or other, concerned in this violation of the
public peace.”
“ An unruly mob, your majesty,” answered
Roland, “ chose to set me free by force, not­
withstanding my protestations against the vio­
lence, and the determination which I expressed
to abide the issue of my trial. I was carried
out of the midst of the confusion, almost
blindfold, by some men, and placed eventually
h 3
120 ATem mLET.
out of reach. My rescue, I m ay truly say,
■w
as involuntary on my part.”
“ It was certainly not odd, altogether,” and
Charles, “ that a man when palled from the
grasp of fellows that were taking him to •
•place like the Tower, sod with the prospect of
death before his eyes, should make the best
use of his legs when he had been set on
them. Don’t you think you would have done
the same, Sir Edgar, if you had been placed
in such n situation ? Ha ?”
Sir Edgar laughed.
“ I am afraid, your majesty,” said he, “ that
I should have found it difficult to have even
summoned up a diffident face at the offer to set
me free.”
(<Well help you, young man, if possible,”
said the king, graciously. “ We have some
thought that we have seen your face before.
Providence has blessed us with so many
friends, that we cannot be expected to retnem-
ATCHBKLBY. 221
her all their countenance*. Are we right, S r
Roland, in onr fancy?”
“ Your majesty is perfectly right,” said Ro­
land, who had by this time quite recovered
himself. “ Though I have served your ma­
jesty for some time in a military capacity, it
was in the Netherlands that I last had the
honour of personally addressing you. Your
majesty may perhaps condescend to remember
that in the neighbourhood of Lonvaine 1 once
had the happiness of saving your majesty from
the poniard of an assassin.”
“ Louvaine 1
—assassinI— 1 remember the
circumstance, 1 remember all about it,” said
Charles, apparently much surprised. “ 1 bad
taken a strange fancy to see incognito a little
how the world wagged in that quarter. Very
strange indeed 1 Sir Edgar I was riding alone,
for I had only taken three or fotur of my con­
fidants with me over the water, and that day
1 chose to rove a little about, for once in my
life, perfectly unencumbered with attendants
222 ATCHERLEY.
or anything else. ’Twas an odd whim alto­
gether ; but I was back again in England in
a short space. I remember the day and die
incident very well indeed! Biding leisurely
and carelessly along, I overtook a man who
looked at me pointedly as I passed, but whom
of course I had no reason on earth for sus­
pecting. As I was passing him, the fellow
rushed towards me, and I saw something glit­
tering in his hand. Before I had time to put
myself on the defensive, the man received a
heavy blow on the head with some instrument
or other, and rolled senseless under my horse’s
feet, encumbered with his cloak. 1 looked up,
and saw a young man standing before me with
a walking-staff in his hand. That young man
was my preserver, and that young man is Sir
Boland Torrington! He had crossed into the
road a little lower down, and came up just
in time to save me my life perhaps, and tie
man a murder. The villain was walked off to
prison between us, we managed to make two
ATCHERLEY. 2 2 3
excellent guards that day, Boland; but two
weeks before his trial be contrived to make an
e=c»pe. So ended the affair at that time ; but
I assure you I have not forgotten it. If we
remember rightly,” continued the King, turn­
ing to Roland, “ we gave something on the
occasion as a memento of the occurrence, and
as a pledge of the future gratitude of a gentle­
man and a King I”
“ Your majesty^ memory is as perfect as it
is condescending,” returned Roland. “ Your
majesty was pleased to present me with a ring
from your, own royal finger, and at the same
time to intimate that if ever I should be placed
in a situation of difficulty or danger, I should
apply to you and that your majesty would if
possible relieve me.”
“ And we suppose you claim the per­
formance of our promise just now,” said the
King.
“ With your majesty’s leave, I do,” said,
Roland.
ATCSBBLKT.
" We »re glad of it,” and the King, “ for
we shall now acquit ourselves of the debt we
owe you. Come nearer. Sir Roland. We
give yon oar royal word that we will do all
that yon want. Yon said that a lady—a lady
to whom you are bound by tows—ia against
her own will in the power of the giant of this
rotnance—this Sir William Atcherley. Upon
our royal honour, you two gentlemen ought to
take leaaons of him, for he ia the very pink of
eourtien and prince of politeness P
“ The lady, year majesty, is at present in
the utmost danger,” said Boland anxiously.
The King smiled. “ I see—I see how it
is,” said he good humonredly. “ Well you
shall be the brave knight her deliverer—you
love her wonderfully of course.”
“ Your majesty I see anticipates my reply,”
said Roland.
“ The presumption of this redoubted cham­
pion,this Serpent Knight m he would be called
in the romance books, must be looked I©," ob-
ATCHEBLBT. ass
served the King decidedly. His pride shall
be humbled, and he shall be made to disgorge
his jewels like a fish. It shall be your own
fault, Bir Boland, if you do not meet him
quickly. You shall attend us to Windsor—no
words; you must—
-and we will hear and settle
all as we go along. Depend on it we will
winnow the whole affair thoroughly, and set
everything on its proper bottom. As for
Rockingham, your intended father-in-law, I
don’t know what I can do for him. He is a
republican, moreover lie is a Puritan, mid
moreover he has in all godliness and sincerity
made a bondJidi attempt on my life. As so
many of his accomplices—I will not offend
you by calling them yours also. Sir Roland—
have been sent out of the world, and yet remain
to be trowled down, all I ean do for yon—and
it is for your sake only that I do as much,
adding also his daughter’s, if she be as fair as
1 have been given to understand and as your
look seems to s a y a l l that I can do, I say, is
h 61
1 :'IV ' ... > (
ATCHSBiKY,
to let judgment of death be recorded ^piast
him, and then give him the choice of execu­
tion or transportation for life to some one of
our colonies in America. I fancy we ih l
be able to get on without the old Puritan
father-in-law, eh, S r Boland? Hal ha! haj
Now then, as all this is arranged, call up the
gentlemen, Sir Edgar, and take them my apo­
logies for detuning them so long. Let us
forward then in God’s name! for it grows
late, and we begin to feel an extraordinary
inclination for dinner.”
Boland, at Charles’ command, was mounted
on one of the horses; a groom being dis­
mounted and sent back on foot for bis accom­
modation. The whole party set gaily forward;
Boland at the King’s side, though he felt far
too anxious to join in the laughter and lively
discourse which prevailed around him. Charles
however seemed a little more serious thin
usual, and spoke much to Boland as be
rode along. At the King’s command he de-
ATCUERLEY. 227
tailed all that had occurred since his first
acquaintance with Atcberley, ^his father's
<death, his life in Germany and England, his
brother’s assassination, his friend’s systematic
treachery, his introduction to the conspirators,
and all that he knew or conjectured respecting
the life and character of Atcheriey,
The King paid great attention to all Boland
disclosed, and especially to all that related
to bis quondam companion. He seemed to
look upon Atcheriey with great interest and
curiosity, and in one or two instances gave
vent to some expressions of wonder when'
something particularly striking was narrated*
Charles, though now getting into year% still
possessed much of the vivacity and many of
the good looks of an earlierage. Time seemed
little to have impaired either his wit, his
spirits, his gallant bearing or courtlike ex-
228
CHAPTER XL
" lo r d M artkaU Harry of Hereford, Lancaster, and
Derby,
Rer-:-::: thy lane® and God defend the right!
B olingbroke. Strongnsa tower in hone, I cry—Amen I
* • • •
Sound train ; sad set forwardoombatants I"
Rickard II. Act 1. Scene 3.
“ Thy oath remember; thou hast sworn to do i t :
’Tis but a blow, which never shall be known.”
PericU*, Prince o f Tyre. Act 1. Scene 1.
“ Whence comeet thonf what wooldeet thou I thy
Coriolanu*. Act 4. Scene 5.
“ O rillsny I Ho 1 let the door be locked :
Treachery ! seek it out.’
H am let. Act 5. Scene 2.
Roland was treated with much indulgence by
the King, who determined, upon the strength
ATGHBELKY. 229
of his representations, which after some
time the king became convinced were true, to
rescind the former grant to Ateherley, and to
restore the Torrington title and its dependen­
cies to the proper heir.
To this end, not to tike any undue
advantage of him, he caused a summons,
which Ateherley received, to be duly
forwarded, and determined to wait till suffi­
cient time had elapsed for him to ap- ,
pear in answer to it. He wished if possible
to save him, as he had still a lurking respect
for his talents and an admiration of him gene­
rally, from disgrace as well as from the tem­
poral injury of having to surrender his newly-
acquired estate. The king’s sense of justice,
however, and displeasure at the unwarrantable
things of which he had been guilty, determined
Mm to do equal justice upon Ateherley, but
if he found him tractable and prepared to re­
sign both his captive and his ill-gotten booty
with a good grace, Charles at the same time
ATCHEBLBT.
resolved to provide for him in some other
manner, and to bestow upon him, while loyal
and deserving, at least a negative countenance.
The King never imagined for a moment that
Atcherley would have the presumption not to
immediately appear, throw himself at his feet,
confess his faults, and make ample and volun­
tary reparation for the wrongs of Julia and
Roland.
Application moreover to Rockingham, who
was still in prison, fully established the truth
of Roland's story, and the king, somewhat in­
terested in the romantic history of their attach­
ment, determined to conclude the drama by
making both the lovers happy.
Great was bis indignation when the day
mentioned for the appearance of the culprit
passed over without his attendance or even an
explanation from him. This implied contempt
put to flight eveiy one of the king’s gracious
feelingstowards him, and did moreto make him
sec down Atcherley as the villain he was repre-
ATCHBRLEY. 231
seated, than all the affliction of Roland or the
entreaties of his imprisoned friend.
Roland we may be certain was too eager to
lose an instant; and the moment he was armed
with the mandate of the king, authorising
him to take the command of a detachment of
soldiers who were appointed to second the
formalities of law, and bear out the sheriff of
the county in what he was to do, he took
the proper steps for an immediate departure
from London.
Sir Edgar Waldegrave voluntered to aid
in the good work of Julia’s rescue and the pun­
ishment of Atcherley, and his offer was gladly
accepted by the eager Roland.
Losing no time, the two friends, accompa­
nied by a troop of the King’s life Guards,
which His Majesty had graciously permitted to
join in the service, set off from London, and
travelled with such expedition that they
reached Northampton the same day. At this
place both the horses and the horsemen were
S3S ■CnERLET.
obliged to rest for the night, and a special
messengerwas sent forward todirect the Sheriff
and legal authorities of the county of Derby,
under the seal of the king, to meet the parties
named in the warrant at a certain place on the
borders of theirj urisdiction.
At six o’clock the following morning, Ro­
land, Sir Edgar, and the party of horsemen,
were in their saddles. The roads were in
good condition, and so the horses were enabled
to push forward without much fatigue. An
order had been sent down from London, for
two troops of a regiment of cavalry which
was stationed at Leicester, to join the little
expedition at Ashby-de-la-Zouch. Hie (aval-
cade, therefore, with Roland and S r Edgar
at its head, riding through Kingsthorp,
Boughton, Harborough, West Langton, Kib-
wortb, Odeby, Knighton, Leicester, Glenfietd,
and over the Bardon Hills, reached Ashby late
in the day, and were there reinforced by the
additional body of troopers, who had pushed
ATCHKHLEY. 233
forward thus Air from Leicester, in order to
take time in their progress end not be com­
pelled to fall in with the rapid pace at which
the others advanced, by losing the opportunity
ofgaining ground upon those who were to come
up with them.
The whole party rested for a time at
Ashby, and then made an evening march
of a few miles to the village of Castle
Dunnington, close upon the borders of Derby­
shire.
At this place, in the best of the two inns
which the town coaid boast, Boland found the
Sheriff of the county, with whom the proper
arrangements were made, and the plan of ope­
rations was settled for the morrow. The order
of the Privy Council, cancelling the grant
lately made to Sir William Atcherley on the
ground of misrepresentation and contempt of
the king’s authority, was shown to the civil
officer, and duly acknowledged by him and his
followers as a valid document.
234 ATCHEBLET.
Roland and Sir Edgar had not been mated
in a private room of the inn ten minotea,
before an orderly arrived in the village, and,
casting himself from hie smoking horse, walked
into the house. He brought a communica­
tion from the Secretary of the Privy Council,
stating that up to the hour when it was
written, nothing had been heard of Atcherley.
The expedition was ordered therefore to pro­
ceed as soon as possible, A second letter was
handed to Roland, who, breaking the seal and
calling for light, found when the latter had
been brought, that the letter was from Oliver
Rockingham. It was the first communica­
tion which he had received from his unfortu­
nate friend, since their common apprehension
at the Rye House.
“ My dear Sir Edgar,” said he, “ I.
know you will excuse roe for a few
minutes: my letter is rather long and some­
what important.”
“ I wish it were from Julia,” returned Sir
ATCHEBLEY. 235
Edgar, *
*begging your pardon, by-the-bye, for
speaking so familiarly of one I have never seen,
and who stands in bo near and sensitive a re­
lationship to you—were it from her, I was
going to say, I fancy did it even reach to a
volume, you would not complain- But we
must wait for to-morrow—till she can speak
for herself. As to your silence for a few mU
nutes, don’t mention it! I will leave you alone
to study your letter at leisure. I shall go and
see how our friends are getting on outside,
and what mine host has to give us all for sup­
per, and I shall expect your thanks for my
trouble on my return. I hope you will
learn that Master Rockingham is out of
prison.”
Saying this, Sir Edgar went down the
creaking stairs, and sought the officers of the
detachment which accompanied them, who
were superintending the dispositions which
were in progress for quartering their men for
ATCHERLKT.
the night. The Sheriff had gone to spend the
evening and sleep at a friend’s house in the
neighbourhood, whitherall the gentlemen ofthe
party had been also invited. They, however,
preferred,except the functionary himself, spad­
ing the time with the soldiery.
Roland, now alone, drew the lamp towards
him, ani read hi* letter, which ran as fol­
lows :—
“ My very Dear Son Roland,
“ If the blessing of a father, given in tears
and affliction, can benefit thee and tby cause,
be assured that thou hast had it, and now
hast it, over and over again. If thou hast a
mind that I shall ever lire to speak to thee
again, save—oh1 save my child I The serpent
which we have nourished in our bosoms hath
turned upon and stung us. Who could believe
that such abominable villany could lark in
ATCHRBLKY. 237
the heart of man! Let us hope, through the
clemency mud kindness of the Royal Charles
— against whom God forgive me for entertain­
ing a thought 1
—that we may rise renewed
nut of the ruins of our happiness, and extri­
cate ourselves from the net with whioh that
prince of hypocrites hath entangled us withal.
I know not whether what I write be intelligi­
ble, for I am broken-hearted and despairing
—full of sorrows as my life is full of yean, and
sometimes inclined to think that 1 shall be
made to bow down my head with sorrow to
the grave, and to take a last leave of the
world without again beholding the dear ehild
whom I never thought I loved or could love so
much. When this reaobeth thee, thou wilt be
close to her prison: save her—rescue her—re­
store her to me, and I shall once more rejoice
at beholding thee I
“ Oh! who could have foreseen such a disas­
trous issue to our undertaking! Much could
I say of all which hath befallen us, and of the
ATCUEHLKY.
fate preparing for our beloved and suffering
brethren. Fearful is the guilt of Mm who has
betrayed and destroyed them. But grief is
selfish. I cannot speak to thee of anything
but that which relateth to thyself and my
dear daughter—whom God Almighty grant
thou moy’st soon recover 1 By accident did’st
thou escape the doom which we ought to have
all shared together, and that escape hath pro­
ven my reprieve from death. When my daugh­
ter once more blesseth my sight, the fountains
of mine eyes will be opened, and I shall weep
for the fate of my friends and fellow labourers
in the vineyard of the Lord, and regret that
1 was not decreed to partake of the des­
tiny that separateth us in this life, to meet
I trust in the eternal mansions of the
Blessed 1
“ To the King I must be grateful;—he has
been pleased to spare my life, to admit thee
to his favour, and to do that for which I shall
ever bless him—lend the band of assistance
ATCHEULEY. 2 3 9
towards the recovery of the loved one that
has been torn from us. I know not bow it is,
but I almost seem a changed man. Perhaps
I am degenerate and fallen away, but my mind
does not seem to so strongly see the necessity
of active agitation as the means of obtaining
reform both in religion and government, as it
of. late hath been accustomed to do. Personal
griefs have I fear greutly driven away political
anxieties, and now, all things considered, I am
not sorry that our enterprise miscarried. I
cannot bring myself to regret having projected
it, but I would if possible, though I should
shed it indirectly, and with the holy and re­
ligious design of furthering die word, save my
hands from blood. But this weak and cal­
culating holding-back savouretb but too much
of the devil 1 We are told to spare neither
small nor great in the service of the
Almighty. For what read we in the Book of
the Prophet Samuel ? *But Saul and the
people spared Agag, and the best ofthe sheep,
140 ATCHKMUBT.
sad of the ozeo and of the fatlmgs, and the
lambs, and all that was good, and would not
utterly destroy them: but everything that was
vie and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.*
Was net he who was commissioned to do the
work of the Lord, also the same day reproved
for Mm pity and a weak and wavering in­
decision, ‘ Wherefore, then, dids’t thou sot
obey the voice of the Lord? but dids’t fly
upon the spoil, and dids’t evil in the sight of
the Lord ? for rebellion is as the sin of witch­
craft, and stnbborness is as iniquity and
idolatry.’ Did not £hud, also, strike Eglon
the King of Moab, who ( gathered unto him
the children of Ammon and Amalek, and
went and smote Israel, and possessed the City
of Palm trees,’ making the children of Israel
serve him eighteen years. ''Curse ye Meroz,’
said the Angel of the Lord,' curse ye bitterly
the inhabitants thereof; because they came
not to the help of the Lord, to the help of the
Lord against the mighty.’ Oh my son! my
ATCH3BRLEY. 2 4 1
heart einketh within me with apprehension
and affright when I think that I—that you—
may be thus cursed for abandoning the cause
of the Lord, and compounding with tyrants,
persecutors of Saints, scoffers at the statutes
and commandments ef the Just One, Papists,
idolaters and men of Belial. Oh! are we
yet strong in the strength of the holy? The
weakness of humanity still elingeth to us,
and bitter—bitter must be our repentance for
falling off in the day of trial I
“ I hare accepted die grace and commuta­
tion of punishment offered by the man Charles.
I almost despise myself while 1 confess it.
Bnt what could I do? I have perilled my soul
for the sake of once more seeing my child ;
and thou and Julia, when I am gone from this
land, mast pray for and extenuate me to the
brethren. The choice of death or transpor­
tation to America was offered me. In
an unguarded hour my human nature pre­
vailed, and I accepted the latter. I write this
von m. m
ATCHERI.kY.
at Chatham, to which place, along with some
others of the brethren, I have been conveyed.
We are waiting for a ship to convey os to
the New World. I am permitted to see ye
both, my children, before I take my depar­
ture for ever, and I am happy that in leaving
my native country, I leave her who ia dearer
to me than that country, dear as that country
is, to the care and protection of one like thee.
Do not concern yourselves about me. I shall
be happy when I know that ye are so. You
will have my hourly blessing; and ore visit
perhaps in about a year’s time from this, if my
repentance in the mean time satisfieth me, 1
may be brought to allow myself from you.
Weaned from the world and all earthly ties
and affections, I shall be able to devote n y-
self to the new duties which I have prescribed
myself. Religious exercises, strengthening
the weak, upholding myself by the example
of the strong, daily supplications for continued
grace and final pardon, labouring incessantly
AfOBBRUHf, 243
in the Lord's vineyard, sowing seed among the
heathen who will surround me, converting
them from block-worship to the knowledge
and adoration of the true and only God, will
employ my hours, days and years, until Pro*
vidence shall be pleased to bid me sleep with
any fathers, and leave my name and memory
with Julia and thyself, and the holy brethren
with whom I have striven. I would not per­
mit you to accompany me, even did you wish
it. I must forsake all and follow the Lord to
atone for my many sins, and especially the sin
which lieth heaviest at myheart, the abandon­
ment of the brotherhood with whom I leagued
myself, with whom I strove in common, and
with whom I ought to have suffered. But let
me hope that my active life will be more bene-
' ficial to the gnat cause than the death which
would have ended both the means and will of
doing good. Heaven pardon me and strengthen
my resolution, and increase my ability to carry
through that resolution.
* 3
ATClIEB ETt
“ That my daughter’s character may sot
suffer an instant in thine opinion, I will relate
to thee that which up to the present moment
I have been unable to inform thee of, the re­
velation she made to me when I carried her
away from thy sight in the parlour of that
fatal Rye House. Love—foolish, foolish love
for thee, was the cause of her unbecoming
and irreligious disguise. The love became
that moment foolish, when it prompted her to
a step which Heaven knows I should never
have thought a daughter of mine capable of
When I departed from home, my she
was to leave my house for that of my maiden
sister. Instead of b o doing, instigated doubt­
less by her handmaiden, Cecilia—whom after
much weeping and protestation on her part I
have at last been induced to forgive—she and
her thoughtless companion took the same road
which you had taken, and followed you to
London. In Derbyshire, before I started,
they learned the name of the person whom 1
ATCHBRLEY- 245
recommended to the countenance of Atcher-
ley, and also ascertained that he was to have
the letter which wasintended to introduce him
to your company. With much art Cecilia
contrived to find out the ism at which the
new member rested—an orderly hostel kept
by a devout brother of ours in the City of
London. Thither she repaired, while her
mistress —
I am ashamed while I speak it—
sought lodging at an inn at the west of the
metropolis. There my giddy and unfortu­
nate daughter remained until her maid re­
turned to her. Ceeilia had been successful.
By her grave and becoming behaviour she had
imposed upon the person upon whom she was
practising, and made him believe that she was
a humble friend of mine—you must remember
that she was appropriately disguised—who had
been protected by me fromchildhood, and was
then edifying some of the conventicles ofLon­
don by his remarkable gift of extemporaneous
exhortation. Jonathan Latimer was too re-
served and cautious a person to drop a word
about the letter or the design In which he was
to participate. But the day was warm, and
in one of the pauses of their grave and or­
derly conversation Jonathan unfortunately fell
asleep. Why need I dilate upon the mis­
chievous result ? the letter was extracted from
his pocket, Cecilia returned to her mistress,
the active attendant—too active in what was
evil—found out your place of residence, be­
came acquainted with the reasons which de­
layed your departure for the Rye House, and
found out all that they desired to know, or
that might speed them in their foolish, indis­
creet and unfortunate intentions. Julia had,
before I left her in Derbyshire, learnt from me
'the fact that you were going to the Rye
House, but the object of your going thither
I concealed from her, as I thought it unneces­
sary, though I knew it could not be dangerous,
that she should know it. She was also aware
that I was to join you there, in order, as she
ATCUEHT.EY. 247
imagined, to prepare, in concert with others,
a petition to the King for the redress of
grievances. Thus, you see, what with the
clue thus afforded, and her own sagacity,
aided by the cunning and aptness of her
attendant, she succeeded but too well in fol­
lowing you and making herself mistress of the
letter, without which she well knew, disguised
as they were, you would not admit them to your
company. I have reason to believe that At-
cherley recognised her the moment she first
crossed your sight at Dunstable, but kept the
knowledge to himself in order to perfect his
schemes, and make himself at a future period
master of her person. She had, it seems, for
some time previous to this distrusted his cha­
racter. She consequently followed thee, on a
romantic impulse, to watch over thy safety,
and become thoroughly acquainted with the
designs which he who may almost be called
thine evil genius entertained against thee. The
intention might be good, but as far as pro-
ATCHJEKliET.
priety was concerned it was as inexcusable as
it vas dangerous.
“ God speed and belp thee, my dearest
Roland, in that which then art going to do 1
The instant thou bast liberated my daughter,
post over the country to Chatham, where I
will. Providence permitting, witness your
union, give up my earthly interest in her unto
thee, and then depart for my new and foreign
home, with a blessing on my lips, and a pro­
mise from you to once more see me on the
distant shore to which I shall then be hasten­
ing.
“ Cecilia Capel is at present under mine
eye in this town. She anxiously desires to
again behold and enter the service of her late
mistress. Of course thou art aware that no
restriction was placed upon either Cecilia or any
of the subordinates when we were arrested at
the Rye House. She has promised so much,
and seemingly repented so sincerely, that 1
shall not perhaps object should’at thou again
ATCBEBLEY. 249
.permit her to attend my daughter. Affliction
hath made me forgive my child already. I shall
now see too little of her to bring her faults too
.harshly to her mind. If in your enterprise
yon should cross the fiend who hath brought
o il this misery upon ns, you may give him my
forgiveness. Let him seek the Lord in time,
and though his sins be red as scarlet, yet shall
be be forgiven, and prove, like the Apostle
Paul, perhaps a warning and an example to
future generations.
u I am,
u My Dear Son Boland,
" Thy Loving Father,
“ And Faithful Friend in the Word,
“ OLIVER ROCKINGHAM .”
- This Place.
“ ------ mo.,
" Anno Domini, 1683.”
Roland hadjust finished his letter when the
host tapped at the rooift-dbor. The ” come
i 5
ATCHEELEY
in ” of Boland was answered by the host’s ap­
pearance. His errand was to say that a gen­
tleman, then waiting below, wished particularly
for a few minutes’ conversation with Sir Bo­
land Torrington.
“ Speak with me, did you say? did the gen­
tleman mention his name ?”
“ He did not, sir,” returned mine host.
“ But I should fancy that he was not a stranger
to you, as he did not appear to ask for you as
if he were—”
“ The request is odd at this time," said Bo­
land, “ for I know of no friends that I have in
this part of the world except those who came
with and are around me. But show the strange
gentleman up, by all means.”
Mine host disappeared; and presently his
heavy tread, accompanied by the lighter one of
the stranger, was heard to ascend the old-
fashioned stairs and approach the chamber
door. The handle of the door was turned,
and in walked the landlord, ushering in a tali
ATCHERLEY. 261
man apparently of large proportions; the
"voluminous folds of the large mantle which he
wore however prevented his figure from being
clearly seen. A hat with broad flaps was
upon his head, and but very little of his face
could be discerned from beneath its shadow,
especially as the lights gave forth but a very
indifferent illumination. He stopped when he
bad advanced three paces into the apartment,
and remained still as a statue. His large dark
eyes could however be seen to roll significantly
round to the host, who with the curiosity pe­
culiar to people of his calling was somewhat
anxious to learn who this strange visiter could
be, and what was his errand.
“ You may leave us,” said Roland, when
he observed that his host seemed inclined to
linger.
The landlord, sadly mortified, slowly retired,
and gently shut the door: his steps were heard,
one after the other, to lazily pass down the
creaking stairs.
252 4.TCHEELEY.
Boland was somewhat surprised to observe
that his visiter kept his position without utter­
ing a sound or moving a muscle, till he heard
the last footstep o f the host die off along the
passage at the bottom of the stairs.
All was now quite still; and a moment or
two were suffered to elapse before the stranger
spoke.
“ Your name is Sir Roland Torrington of
^orrington Place in the neighbouring County
of Derby,” at last he said*
Mis voice was mosictil and at the same time
grate and composed.
“ You are right, sir; that is my name, and
iu the house you mention was 1 born,” said
Roland: “ perhaps you will he pleased to seat
yourself, and to inform me of the reason of
this rather late, though I assure you not on
that account disagreeable visit I have never
had the pleasure, I believe, of seeing your fitce
before.”
* You have not,” was the laconic answer.
.a w i i r l b y . 2 6 3
“ I do not perhaps ask too much, when I
request that yon will raise your beaver apd
allow me to see.the features of one with whom
I shall have to communicate.”
“ A s yon please,” was the answer, and the
stranger raised his hat, but did not take
it off. The features ;of a man about forty
years of .age were displayed—they were hand­
some and regular though exceedingly brown.
There was the same grave kind of expression
however about the eyes, which physiognomists
.have .attributed to Charles the First of Eng­
land.
“ The object for which you have sought me,”
said Roland, “ is—”
“ This,” interrupted the stranger, glancing
from under his brows in a suspicious manner
round the room and towards the door. “ I
come to give yon some intelligence which may
be uaefnl to yon tormorrow. 1 have secret
reasons for aiding you, heart and soul, in the
destruction of the villain yonder: the wrongs
254 ATCHEKLET-
which he has done you cannot be greater than
those which lie has heaped on me. Though
not the fittest bearer of a lady’s message, I
must give you that which I have been com­
missioned—no matter under what circnm-
stances—to deliver. When you have read this
letter, I will tell you in what strange way I
chanced to meet with, became interested in, and
be trusted and employed by yourlady— Mistress
Jalia Rockingham, daughter of Oliver Rock­
ingham, newly released from prison, and now
at Chatham waiting for a vessel to transport
him for life, along with a few others^ to some
one of His Majesty’s Colonies in America.”
Roland’s heart started when he heard Julia
named, and still more when the stranger drew
out of bis pocket a letter in a female hand
and folded after a female fashion. Roland’s
natural eagerness and excitement when this
letter was displayed to him sparkled in his
eyes.
The stranger walked across the room to Ro-
ATCBEBLEY. 255
land, and loosening his right hand from the en­
cumbering folds of his cloak, held out his left
when he had approached Boland close, and
gave the letter. Boland immediately took it
and broke the seal, almost unconscious of the
stranger’s presence.
“ Do you acknowledge the letter ?” de­
manded the stranger.
“ Yes,” said Boland, whose eyes were fixed
upon the seal, the device on which he recog­
nized for one of J ulia’s.
“ Acknowledge this too then,” continued
the stranger. He dropped the mantle from his
right hand, and drawing the hand back to add
a fatal strength and certainty to the blow, was
about to plunge the poniard which glittered in
his grasp in the heart of his preoccupied and
unsuspecting victim. A hand, however,
roughly caught his arm from behind,
and Boland, as if struck by lightning,
started far out of reach. The hand which had
so providentially rescued Boland from a so
ATCHKELEY.
m
certain death, was that of his friend Sir Bdgar
Waldegreve. The assassin, seeing that the
single blow to which he treated had miscarried,
threw the folds of his dark mantle around him,
sad darted.as quiektasilight to-the door o f the
apartment
“ 'By Jove, Boland,” shouted Sir £dgar,
“ let not the villain baffle two of ns ! Here
fortunately lit year pistols 1 Surrender, you
devil, or yen shall have a ballet through your
cowardly head I”
As Sir Edgar almost shrieked tins out, the
assassin suceeeded in opening the doer. A s
he passed be snatched the key from the look,
sod jammed .the door after him with a force
that shook the door posts.
“ B y ------ he has shut the door 1
” cried S r
Edgar. “ There goes the kx»ki Our punoit
is prevented byeverythingcomfortable! Hade!
how he bolts down the stairs I There is only
one way 1 Throwj open die window! Shout,
Boland, shout, and I’ll try to fait him as he
ATCHEELEY. 2&7
sallies forth. Here! attention, you sentry
below I Stop tiie man yon see come
out of the door! Ah 1 there he is,
b y ------”
As Sir Edgar spoke he fired bis pistol,
and the ball struck the party at whom it
had been aimed. He, however, strode
boldly on. The alarm by this time had been
given in the street, and the fugitive, disabled
by his wound, was overtaken, captured and
roughly disarmed.
AM the place was of course in commotion.
Boland sat down, and Sir Edgar, going to the
head of the stairs, commanded some of the sol­
diers to bring up the prisoner.
In a minute or two the room was full of*peo-
ple. The officers of the detachment were
gathered around Boland and Sir Edgar,
congratulating the former upon his for­
tunate escape, and the latter upon his lucky
shot.
“ The villain,” cried one of them, “ would
ATCHBRLET.
have otherwise escaped as sure as the moon’s
now shining in the sky! The sentry, puzzled
with the strange affair and the outcry from the
window, would most likely in bewilderment
have missed the man when within his reach.
W e at a distance should not have known what
was the matter, and in the general confusion
the assassin would have slipped by us in the
darkness. But we have him now, and he shall
well pay for it !”
“ Your threat is of little consequence to
him,” observed the doctor of the town, who
had been hastily called in. ,l His wound is
mortal.”
“ He must then lay open his mind, and let
us know his accomplices and the reason of his
attempt on Sir Boland’s life. It’s a most ex­
traordinary thing 1 Gentlemen, question him
while he is able to answer, for the doctor here
says that there is not more than a few hours'
life in him.”
All present did not fail to follow this advice;
...
C
>
ATCHEBLEY. 259
but nothing was to be gathered from the pri­
soner. H e sat bound in a chair opposite to
those o f Boland, Sir Edgar, and their friends,
and preserved a moody and contemptuous
silence.
A fter some time spent in this manner, all
were directed to quit the room except Boland,
Sir Edgar, and one or two of the officers.
T h e assassin was then gravely applied to over
and over again for the reason of his daring
act, the natureofthedesign against Boland’slife,
and the names, if any, of the accomplices.
H is dreadful state waB properly represented to
him, but this, together with the assurances of
the surgeon that he could not possihly survive,
failed to move him in the slightest degree. His
constancy of purpose was extraordinary, as
well as the surprising fortitude with which he
bore the paio under which he must have been
suffering. Finding every effort useless, the
prisoner was carried toabed-chamber, his wound
dressed, and everything which art, skill and
260 ATCHBBLKY.
attention could supply, bestowed upon him. The
ball had penetrated a vital part, and but few
hours of life remained to him.
Several hours were spent that night in
debate and consultation: but at last all thought
it proper to retire to rest, to prepare and fit
them for the fatigues and uncertainties of the
morrow. A proper watch was kept over the
assassin during the night, and everything at­
tempted which could retard or prerent the
catastrophe.
ATCHEBLEY. 261
CH APTER XIL
‘On, on, you noblest English,
Whose blood b fet from fathers of war proof!
Fathers, that like somany Alexanders,
Have, in these parts, from morn till even fonght,
And sheath’d their swords for lack of argument.
• . * t • •
The game’s afoot;
Followyour spirit: and, upon this charge,
Cry—God for Harry I England ! and Saint George."
Henry V. Act 3. Scene 2. •
“ On, on, on, on, on ! to the breach, to the breach!”
Ibid. Act 3. Scene 2.
'* Arm, arm, and out!
If this, which he avouches, doesappear,
There is nor flying hence, nor tanging here.”
Macbeth. Act®. Scene5.
E arly the following morning the bugles blew
in the village street, and Roland, Sir Edgar,
262 ATCHKHLKY.
and tlier friends, starting from their short
and interrupted slumbers, began to attire and
accoutre themselves. In a short time the space
before the inu was full of horses; and officers
hurrying in and oat of the house and troopers
examining the state of their arms and hone
furniture, gave uncommon liveliness to the
scene. So much bustle had not been seen in
the little town for a very considerable time.
The inhabitants grouped themselves at their
doors, and gazed with eyes of rustic wonder on
the martial assemblage before them.
A ll the superiors of the party having armed
themselves and hastily broken their fast, the
officers of the detachment went out to their
men, and Roland, S r Edgar, and the host be­
took themselves for the last time to the apart­
ment in which the wounded assassin of yester­
day lay dying. Affairs here were in much the
same situation. The man was evidently fast
departing, and the doctor, who had sat up with
'him the whole night, declared that it was ex-
ATCHEHLEY 263
traordinary how he could hare survived even
so long as he had. He appeared [iosen-
Bible to pain, and had conversed a good deal
with his attendants: but whenever the subject
of the assassination was started or approached,
he stopped suddenly, and continued to preserve
a total and provoking silence.
Everything was urged by Roland and the
■
others which could induce, by hope of reward
or dread of danger, the disclosure which they
so much wished to make themselves masters
of. To this the stranger returned no other
answer than—
“ Gentlemen, it is useless. I am not a man
to change a purpose, or to do that to-day
which I refused to do yesterday. I am now
fast dying. When 1 am dead ask my cold
and insensible body, and the senseless corse,
which will bear you as readily as the table
at which you are now sitting, shall as soon
answer then as I shall answer you now. Your
264 ATCffBSIsWe
efforts are useless. Fob will be disappointed
I assure you. I have failed, and 1 came not
here unprepared for the consequences. This
wound—this mortal wound is immaterial. I
should have been otherwise sacrificed, either by
the blind and instant rlge of your friends, Sir
Boland, or the slower but not less sure band
of the law. What should I have profited by
the delay? Death must arrive; I must have
died; and I am dying 1
”
“ That villain yonder—that Atcherley—ia
at the bottom of this,” observed Sir Edgar,
involuntarily perhaps making the words half a
question. Boland looked to the culprit to sea
how he would take the observation, but not a
muscle moved.
“ Perhaps so," he carelessly said.
“ And the letter,” added Boland. “ I hare
since found out that it was a forgery."
“ Very probably,” ejaculated the criminal.
ATCHERLEY. 265
“ The seal however I did not mistake,” con­
tinued Roland, “ it is—”
“ That which you took it to be,” interrupted
the assassin.
" Obtained in some strange manner though,”
said Roland, anxious to continue the conver­
sation and seduce the stranger into some sort
of confession.
“ Stolen—stolen, perhaps,” returned the lat­
ter, “ or given to second the deception and put
you out of the way. Women are changeable
creatures, you know, Sir Roland.”
This trifling observation made Roland start
up all in a hurry, frown, and sign to his friend
to follow. “ ’Tis of no use,” said he ns they
descended the stairs together— “ let the villain
die! Not a moment is to be lost. I will
rescue Julia or perish ! The man is of course
a liar?”
“ Very probably,” rep lied Sir Edgar drily.
“ I give you his own words for an answer.”
When the two gentlemen sallied out, they
y o l. m . n
(X
266 ATCHEBLET.
found all the troopers in readiness for an im­
mediate departure. Boland and Sir Edgar
mounted the horses which were in waiting for
them, mid cantering to the head of the detach­
ment, gave, as they passed, the order to set
instantly forward.
The direction was answered by the martial
clatter of the horses’ feet, and the glittering
train trotted briskly out of the village.
The read happened to run close by the
gentleman’s house at which the Sheriff had
quartered himself for the night. H e conse­
quently joined the party at a gate which
opened into the road. On being told the ex­
traordinary event of the preceding evening,
his wonder was excessive; but the brisk pace
at which the whole calvacade pressed forward
precluded much conversation.
In about two hours’ time the detachment
had arrived in the immediate neigbouzfaood of
Tomngton Place. The little public-house
mentioned in the earlier part of our narrative
1TCHKRLBY. 267
had been passed some tim e; and at aboot a
hundred yards’ distance the old wall of the park
began to disclose itself. Boland’s sensations
were rather exhilirating than painful, and be
prepared himself, like a good commander, to
i
make dispositions for his hostile approach to
his own house. Anyone oould have Been in
his eyes that he contemplated paying Atelier*
ley well for the wrongs which he had done
him.
Nothing appeared to stir about the old house
or in the park, and Boland and the soldiers,
taking the grassy ground which surrounded the
park, cantered towards the great gates. They
found them fastened up, and a sentry peeping
from an arrow-slit at the troopers whom he
saw coming towards him.
“ Who comes there?” cried he, and be
levelled his firelock.
“ Beware what you do, fellow,” returned
the Sheriff, riding to the front, but with a
stout guardsman on each side of him. “ We
n 3
266 ATCBKKLET.
come in the King’s name, and under the
authority of the law. Remember that every
one who resists is amenable to the law, and
will be treated as a rebel and a traitor.
Somebody give this paper to the man yonder,
and he must bear it to his master.”
*
* The villain has turned out all oar old
servants I see,” said Roland, “ and filled the
place with desperadoes of his own. W e have,
I suppose, all the cut-throats to be found in
the five nearest counties to deal with. Mr.
Sheriff, is this form necessary which you
propose?”
“ Undoubtedly it is, Sir Roland,” answered
the Sheriff, until this paper is delivered, and
a refusal to obey all its commands returned to
us, every hostile step you take is illegal.”
“ Enough then,” cried Roland, “ enough!—
Hand him the paper in the name of God!
Fellow, I am the owner of this house and
estate. W ill you open the gates and admit
me and my followers ?”
ATCHBBLET. 269
” Certainly not, without orders,” was the
reply.
“ Then I must force my way. Carry that
paper to William Atcherley—he is deprived of
the dignity lately bestowed on him by his
Majesty. Say that I wait here ten minutes,
and at the expiration of that time intend—
if I do not in the mean time receive an answer,
and a decisive answer to my demands, to break
into my own park, and march up to take
possession of the house of my fathers. Away,
sir, and take can how you perform your
errand.”
The paper was thrown over the gate to
the sentry, who disappeared for a moment,
having doubtless handed it to some invisible
neighbour.
The party now withdrew to a short dis­
tance from the gate, uni anxiously awaited the
answer to the summons in the King’s name.
Just before the ten minutes had elapsed a
horseman galloped np, who had been left be-
ATCHBM.F.Y.
'470
hind for the purpose, and informed Roland that
the assassin of Castle Dunnington had breathed
his last.
“ It matters nothing now,” was the answer.
“ W e shall all hare enough to employ oar
minds abc ament. “ He made no reve­
lation I suppose?”
“ H e spoke not a word, nr,” said the
trooper.
“ ’Tie well. Attention 1 here comes the
answer.”
A s Roland spoke, the sentry again ap­
proached the gates, and signed for one of the
detachment to draw near. Roland, before
any one could obey, started forward and rode
close up to the gate. A n instant’s apprehen­
sion seized upon his friends behind.
*’W ell, air ? the reply,” demanded Roland
sternly.
“ Sir William Atcherley,” exclaimed the
sentry, “ declares that he will keep with has
life the title and estate which His Majesty,
ATC8BBUST. 271
uadi? Ms own hand and seal, has bestowed on
him. He has read your paper carefully, which
he declares to be a forgery, and this is his only
answer.”
“ Come forward then,” oried Boland, draw­
ing his sword and beckoning to his soldiers.
An instant and spirit-stirring gallop-forward
of the latter was the answer.
“ Captain Forester,” said Boland, “ direct
your troop, if you please, to ride round the
park wall towards the north. Sir Edgar, will
you lead another troop southwards, dispersing
the men so about the sides and rear of the
building that no person can escape from it
Life and death depend on this dispersion of
our forces 1 The remaining troop will for the
present abide with me. Should I force this
gate, a bugle will call you back. The park
will then be open, and we shall be able to
closely invest if not force ourselves into the
mansion itself. Now, gentlemen, God prosper
usl”
a tc h e rlk y .
As he spoke, the two troops wheeled off to
the right and left. The remaining soldiers
dismounted, and, applying sledge hammers,
which they had procured from the neighbour­
ing village, to the iron gates, sought to make
some of the rusty tracery or lunges give way.
Fortunately a crowd of the tenantry, anxious
to display their zeal for their old master’s son,
came running forward armed with a variety
of cumbrous implements, which could however
do good service in the present design.
Abundance of blows were rained on the
gates. They stood the storm as yet with an ex­
traordinary obstinacy. A number of men, how­
ever, circled_witMnsi.de, and began to discharge
their pieces among the crowd. Boland in­
stantly ordered the people to get under cover
of the wall, leaving only a few soldiers to em­
ploy the men inside.
The party assailed, increasing in numbers,
drew nearer to the gates; and one or two could
be seen to mount the wall and prepare for a
ATCHERLET. 273
tiraillade from that advantageous situation. A
few dropping shots were all that were heard
of the rest of Boland’s friends. The gates
were much too strong to be easily forced, and
Roland saw with mortification that they were
every moment becoming more difficult of ac­
cess. Sir Roger Armstrong, a friend of
Atcherley’s, had taken post at this point
of the defences, and had now mounted
a great many of his men on the ridge
of the wall, which was wide, for a considerable
distance on either side. These men, firing re­
peatedly upon the assailants, swept the ground
between those who were under cover of the
massy buttresses and superabundant iron­
work of the gateway, and their comrades in
the rear. The besieged also on the other side
of the gate, becoming bolder as their sharp­
shooters above reiterated their shots, with effect
drew closer and closer to the wall, till they at
last fired from between the bars, and drove off
those who were battering the gates.
Affairs thus stood for several minutes; but
n 5
274
ml length a bogle mondial from tfce ( h * «
of the park, a preconcerted signal* intimating
to Boland that his friends had succeeded is
foreing an entrance into i t Qni r: «§ light*
ning he gave the word to close together and
gallop round to the postern, the only place at
which he knew it was possible to have effected
a breach. When he arrived there he found
that some of the troopers had managed to get
across the outer moat and to lower the tittle
draw-bridge which communicated between the
park and the neighbouring country. Under
the superintendence o f Sir Edgar Waldgrave
they had continued to fire upon the walls until
they had forced ever/ one of their defenders
to abandon them—one or two were killed, se­
veral wounded, and the rest intimidated. Hie
besieged had naturally kept the poetera-gate
close fastened up, as th e/ knew that a sail/
would be out of the question with such scanty
numbers, and against a force trained to
war, carefully disciplined, and well armed and
ATCHHHL1T. 275
accoutred. Depending upon their individual
skill in the use of the gun, they had ascended
the wall, and hoped by marking out their op­
ponents to keep the besiegers at a satisfactory
distance from the moat. The latter however
had been too expeditious for them. In spite
of the fire, several of the boldest trpopers
sprung into the water and scrambled over to
the other side, where there was a little green
ledge just under the wall. While this was
doing, the remainder of the assailants lined the
outward bank, and found the people on the
wall sufficient employment by keeping up a
nimble fire with their carbines.
The draw-bridge was secured with chains
passing to the inside of the wall, so there were
at present no means of lowering it. Man after
man, however, crossed the moat, until two-
thirds of the whole number were on the ledge
before mentioned.
The postern was old, and the wood-work
276 ATCHERLEY.
Boon began to crack and splinter. When Bo­
land came np a plank was already store in j
and the heavy implements brought by those
who came with him soon decided the basiness
by shattering the door to pieces. Before this
all the defenders had fled, and when the in­
vaders rushed in they had no opposition in
lowering the bridge and admitting the ca­
valry.
A ll poured into the park through this en­
trance, but Atcherley’s party were at a consi­
derable distance, running eagerly towards the
mansion. Sir Boger Armstrong and all at the
principal gate instantly retreated when they
saw that their antagonists had gone round.
They knew that the postern would only hold
for a short time, and that if they remained they
must he overtaken and destroyed by the horse
soldiers before they could reach the house.
Though Boland and the troopers strove hard
to cut them off, Atcherley’s people, favoured
ATCHEBLEY. 277
by the rising ground and the many trees which
delayed and incommoded the horses, all got
clear across the inner moat, and obtained the
protection of the mansion itself.
278 ATCHXRtSY.
CHAPTER XIII.
“ Ruffian let go that rude uncivil touch;
Thou friend of an ill fitahion !”
Two Qentlmm of Verona. Act 5. Scene 5.
“ They have tied me to a stake; I cannot fly,
But, bearlike, I must light the course."
‘Why should I play the Roman fool, and die
On mine own sword I whiles I see lives, the gashes
Do better upon them.”
“ Macduff.—Turn, hell-hound, turn !
Macbeth.—Of all men else I have avoidedthee :
But get time back, my soul is too mueh charged
With blood of thine already.
Macduff.— I have no words,
My voice is in my sword j thou bloodier villain
Than terms can give thee out 1
”
Macbeth. Act 5. Scene 7.
Rotand, Sir Edgar, and the guardsmen and
ATCHEBLEY. 279
trooper*, galloping through the park, soon.came
up to the Inner moat; but here there was no
attempt made to dispute their passage, and the
water being but shallow there was no great
difficulty in getting to the other side. There
was also a gate and causeway, the former of
which, having been broken open, easily ad­
mitted the horses. Once within the inner
circle, Sir Edgar, at Boland’s particular re­
quest, rode ronnd to the rear of the building,
and dispersed bis men so about that there
would have been no flying from the bouse
without much difficulty and opposition. Ro­
land, with a troop of the cavalry, rode up to
the entrance of the house. As they advanced
the casements ofthe whole front were suddenly
opened and a number of bristling firelocks pro­
truded.
“ Heed them not, men,” shouted Boland,
“ but follow my example and we shall burn
these hornets out of their nest! Throw your­
selves from your homes and force the principal
280 ATCHBRLET•
door! Once in with oar numbers resistance
will be madness.”
Saying this he dismounted. His companions
likewise threw themselves from their foaming
chargers, and with drawn swords all advanced
to the doors.
Before they could do this, however, the
pieces above were seen to flash out their deadly
contents, and the rattle of the discharge, mag­
nified and repeated by the echoes, rang along
the whole smoky front of the ancient edifice.
The snow-white sulphury vapour rolled foil in
the faces of the assailants: one or two dropped
to the ground, and several of the horses, mad­
dened by the pain of their wounds, broke
wildly away, and galloped off with reins and
stirrups flying among the old oaks of the park.
Before however the besieged could load for
a second volley, the assailing parly were close
up with the doors and out of the range of their
antagonists. A few dropping shots from two
or three windows in the angles of the mansion
ATCDEHLEY. 281
were all which could now by any possibility
take effect. The windows.of the hall—which
were within reach of the ground—were suc­
cessively shattered; and those who failed to
obtain entrance through them, waited until
their friends could poll away the defences,
draw the huge bolts which secured the doors
and throw them open. The few defenders
found in this part of the house, and the absence
of his arch enemy, convinced Boland that a
flight was meditated from the rear of the build­
ing. Terrified at the bare idea that this should
be successful, and fired with revenge against
his traitorous friend, he left the overpowering
of the remainder of the garrison to one of the
officers, and shouting for a few men to follow
him, darted up the great staircase, and being
familiar with the internal arrangement of the
house, sought in all directions for Julia and the
villain who had held her in confinement.
Cries and shouts were heard in all parts of the
house, with a few scattered shots now and
288 ATCUBUY.
then, trampings Mid stampings of feet, clat­
tering of weapons^ shattering of glass, oaths
and deadly execrations. Roland speeded on,
out of one room and into another, unmindful
of everything but his object.
At length Roland and the men behind him
rushed into the p&sssge which led to the apart­
ments in which Julia had been imprisoned.
A crowd of men were advancing in an oppo­
site direction from tine outer door. Roland,
with an eye like lightning, instantly saw in
the midst the form of Julia carried along in
the arms of Ateherley. The foremost of the
party suddenly stopped when they saw
strangers in possession of the way before them,
and recognised the uniform of theiropponents.
Roland rushed forward; those in front of At-
cherley levelled their pieces, bnt before they
could discharge them Roland's sword had cut
one on each side of him down. The guards­
men started back for a moment when they
ATCHKHIiEY. 283
mw their leader rush headlong upon the very
barrels of their enemies’ firelocks. The; in­
stantly however recovered their impetuosity,
and charged hotly after him.
“ Surrender, you monster1
” cried Boland,
“ or I will stain the floor of m; father’s house
with jour treacherous blood1
”
Ateherley did not reply, but coolly com­
mitted Julia to the care of two of his follow­
ers. She instantly recognised Boland’s voice,
and was struggling to free herself from the
grasp of the ruffians who held her,
Ateherley advanced to the front, and placed
himself opposite to Boland.
“ So I Mr. Boland Torrington,” said he
with great composure, “ we meet upon some­
what extraordinary terms. My house and
park have been broken into, and my life pub­
licly threatened. Fall back, men, fall back!
and you too, gentlemen, with your prisoner,
get to the rear! This very enterprising young
ATCHERT<RY.
man will I suppose allow us a word before his
blow.”
Hia partisans accordingly drew back a pace
or two; but the soldiers did not stir a step.
“ Sergeant,” cried Boland, “ post round to
our friends outside, and bid them close up to­
wards tbe back of the house. Be sensible,
men,” he continued to Atcherley’s follow­
ers, “ and throw down your arms 1 will
answer for your lives and your pardon.”
.«By- I” cried 'Atcberley, “ I will cut
down the first man who stirs a foot or drops
his arms! Roland Torrington,” he continued,
as the sounds of a hostile approach came from
his rear. “ Do I pass into opener and fairer
ground? Beware I you sell your life.”
“ You stir not an inch unless you free your
captive,” said Boland, firmly. “ You and I
must then meet and settle our quarrel in
blood!”
“ You are a fool I” said Atcherley, with a
ATCHEKLEY. 285
calm and contemptuous smile. “ Do y ou think
that I have not made my way through a hun­
dred times more formidable obstacles than
these. Well then let us try this question I I
make my way through you all! for I must
escape through yonder door, and with this lady
with me. Charge, men, charge! Fear not
for a moment 1 Well cut these gallants into
as many pieces as their ribbon-ends. Now
then; upon them! upon them 1
”
As he spoke he rushed on towards the op­
posing party. His followers kept close to
him, and seemed to acquire a desperation from
the conduct of their leader. Nor was Roland
slack in meeting them. Half way they en-
.countered, and in an instant all was a confused
and dizzy struggle. The eye could make
nothing out of the fearful scene of chaotic and
tempestuous contention. Swords were hissing
and darting in all directions, like snakes at
play or quick and dazzling zig-zags of forked
lightning. Some ofthe combatants were torn-
286 ATCHEBLEY.
bling heavily to the shaking floor with a noise
that made the gallery echo. In a minute or
two the combat did not seem qnite so fearful.
Roland had darted upon Atcherley in the on­
set, and bad been able to drive him back for a
few paces, as the latter marred his own efforts
by useless attempts to make ont the situation
of Julia. The two men who held her captive
and Atcherley had been separated—unavoid­
ably separated in the first rush, and three or
four tall guardsmen, throwing themselves upon
the ruffians, had swung them off from the p ri­
soner and struck them to the ground. Julia
was instantly placed out of reach in the rear of
the royal party.
The combat between Roland and Atcher­
ley and their remaining partisans, continued
all along the gallery. Atcherley was a much
better swordsman than Roland, but having
frequently to parry the thrusts of several an­
tagonists at once, his superiority was but of
little service to him. The eyes of both comha-
ATCHERLEY. 287
tacts glittered like points of fire. At length
a severe wound of his sword-arm nearly dis­
abled Atoherley. A trooper attempted to
seise him by the collar, and so by main
strength to overcome his balance. A flash
however of Ms eyes, which seemed almost to
blast his assailant, was followed by a thrust,
which, passing through his heart, caused the
preaumptious soldier to fall stone dead to the
floor. At that moment Boland chanced to
make a deadly lunge, and his sword, seemingly
without an effort of his ow% passed straight
through the breast of bis antagonist and
glided out of hisback. Atcherley turned pale,
and dropping the point of his weapon sunk
heavily to the floor!
The fight did not last muchlonger. Atcher-
ley’s people disappeared as if by magic, and
all that remained were the groaning wretches
who could not fly. Sir Roger Armstrong took
horse, and with as many of his people
288 ATCHERLET.
«a he could find galloped off like the
wind.
Roland had now conquered, and had ob­
tained all that his heart could wish. Julia was
folded in a long and ardent embrace, and
both, in the simplicity, fondnessandjoyof their
hearts, were crying like children I She of
coarse was entreating to know how this blessed
rescue was brought about, and how her father
was situated Roland delayed all explanation
of the former for the present, but quickly in­
formed her that, her father was safe, was as
happy as he could be in the uncertainty of
her situation, end was impatiently waiting to
embrace and join them together. Their joy
and delight were fortunately tempered into
happiness, by doubts of its reality and fears
of its blessed—blessed permanency.
Atcherley, unable to move, was still lying
in the gallery. Roland at the sight of his
enemy thus prostrate before bim did not feel
half so revengeful against bim as be had sup-
ATCHBRLBY. 289
posed be must have done. He drew near,
and, looking in the face of his treacherous
friend, said that he forgave him, and begged
him to turn to repentance for a means of con­
solation in bia dying moments and reparation
for what he had done.
Boland Torrington,” said Atcherley, with
a surprising calmness, “ you are now happy:
and the most fortunate thing for the continu­
ance of your happiness is that I am being fast
removed from your ■
side. I hated and still
hate your name! I have nearly exterminated
it, but it seems that it must flourish in spite
of me. ’Tis fate. I have lived ;—my time is
up, and I must die! I have had my part in
this poor pageant of mortality, and now I
must resign it. Do you think that if £ had
been really desirous of prolonging my life
that £ could not have baffled you in all your
attempts against me? No! £ prepared to
resist you as a sort of interlude between the
drama which £ had been able to bring to a
VOL. III. o
ATCHBHtET.
successful termination, hum! the last great act
which was to cbs© my performance upon the
stage of this world- You have obtained your
mistress*
,—she loves you, and be content1 I
would have kept her from you; but you have
conquered me, and are just now entering into
the temple of your happiness. Such happiness
would have proved none to me, even did I see
you lying here where now I lie. I have
known no happiness. I do not know what my
life has been:—a s t o r m t h e delight of the
tornado as it sweeps through heaven, o’er-
eharged with lightnings, breaking up with its
too heavy freight of thunder, and waging a
fearful war with every visible and less destruc­
tive element I do not think I was made for
such a world as this;—it has not suited me.
Every thing in it has been strange, and
foreign to my nature. Boland Torrington, a
word before we part for ever. Did you love
your father ?”
ATCHERLEY. 2 9 1
" Why ask you such a question?” cried
Roland. “ Can you—do you doubt it? ’
“ You remember his death —
you remember
how he died. I—I poisoned him!”
“ You?—poisoned him?—Oh my God!1
’ ex­
claimed Roland.
“ Hush I—there is more to hear. Your
brother died by the hands of villains in the
streets of London.—Did he not?”
“ He did;—so we all concluded,” said Ro­
land, gasping for breath.
“ His murderer is now before you!” mid
Atcherley, looking as if he enjoyed the as­
tonishment of Roland.
“ Gracious God 1 1 stand hearing this,”
cried Roland, “ and the devil yet alive before
me! Your blood is yet upon my hand, but
you have breathed too long already ! Oh
wretch 1 Oh villain 1
—what—what have you
done!”
“ Stand back 1
” thundered Atcherley as
Roland wildly approached. “ Stand back and
H <
3 t
c
hear me! The wretch I pot out of the world
he polluted—the wretch whom you call your
father, was mine—my father—mine also; and
I slew him! Destruction had marked him for
a sacrifice the moment I was born I I branded
him with my hate—my deadly hate, the mo­
ment 1 learned he was my father!—father by
nature—stranger by law. I cursed him in my
heart; I swore to revenge—to revenge in
blood the honour of my motherI That vow
was registered in Hell if not in Heaven, and
the mortal characters, chiselled upon the stone
of my gradually hardening heart, remained—
remained to stare at my soul till I struck them
out in blood1 He fell; and fell as all of his
boose have fallen—all but one. 1 would have
destroyed you all—have tom out your name
from the book of the living—have trodden
down your souls and trampled out your every
spark of life—have griped ye as death—the
giant, Death, gripes to hiB fierce embrace the
creature that he crushes—have clutched ye to
ATCUERLEY. 2 9 3
my heart, and crushed your fabric in mine
iron arms, till shape was massed to nothing­
ness and bone did crack—till your annihilation
became my own act, and I at last had my one
great revenge!
Atcherley’e voice died off in inarticulate
sounds. At last he ceased, and, rolling on his
back, stretched out his limbs. A spark of
fire seemed to live in his eyes, while his face
grew pale as death. At last his lower jaw
dropped, the expression of his face became
fearful, and every feature fixed as if cut in
marble. The fire in his eyes went suddenly
out, and they continued staring dull, ghost­
like and Btony upon the roof of the gallery.
Boland, who had turned away his head in
horror, once more looked round:—but all that
remained of Atcherley, was the lifeless shell
of life before him.
a t c h e r lk y .
The evil spirit was now removed from Ro­
land’s side. He looked op already with a new,
a fresh, and a holy contentment and indepen­
dence. A gush of pure and soothing feelings
stole gently over him. The blight was re­
moved from his life ; the dark and fearful cloud
had passed over;—and the bright and glorious
sunshine streamed forth upon him, while the
fast retreating shadow in his mind, as the
light of a new existence seemed to chase it
back, glided quicker and quicker into distance,
till all it shaded were the memories of other
days, and all which was now existent of his
false friend Atcherley.
•THE END.
T. C. Newby, Printer, 72, Mortimer-St., Cavenduh-Sqaere.
