{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1846__jones___mesmerism_examined_and_repudiated.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmerism Examined And Repudiated","mylang":"de"}
©
©
9
©
§
©
'^ff^^^^^^*
(1
©
©
©
©
MESMERISM
EXAMINED AND REPUDIATED,
AS
THE SIN OF WITCHCRAFT" ETC,
ESPECIALLY IN ITS MYSTERIES,
CLAIRVOYANCE. k
A2V" APPENDIX OF MESMERIC PHENOMENA,
WITNESSED BY WILLIAM H. BEECHER, f
Pastor Presb. Ch., Batavia, N. Y.
V
Secontr JEMtton.
©
1
s
{
1
I
§
$
ffi BY HENRY JONES,
W AUTHOR OF " PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION" — " SCRIPTURES SEARCHED" — V|j
ial " BIBLE READER," ETC.
1
1
i
NEW- YORK:
J. S. REDFIELD, CLINTON HALL.
ty G. B. ZIEBER & CO., Philadelphia. REDDING & CO., Boston. TAYLOR.
'or) WILDE & CO., Baltimore.
i§)
1846.
Price ;-6 cents single, 62 1-2 cts. per dozen, 94 per hundred.
Postage :—2 1 -2 cts. to any part ofthe United (states.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM
REPUDIATED AS
SORCERY;-NOT A SCIENCE.
BY HENRY JONES.
PUBLISHED BY REQUEST.
WITH
AN APPENDIX OF MAGNETIC PHENOMENA,
BY " WILLIAM H. BEECHER, D.D."
NeW&'rK:
J. S. REDF1ELD, CLINTON HALL.
G B ZEIBER & CO., Philadelphia. REDDING & CO., Boston. TAYLOR.
WILDE & CO., Baltimore.
1846.
Price :—6 cents single, 62 and a half cents p°.r dozen, $4 per hundred
Postage :—2 and a half cents la any part of the United Stales.
BF
I?
ANIMAL MAGNETISM REPUDIATED.
Rev. 16 : 13, 14. " And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs, come out of the mouth
of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false pro-
phet. For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the
kings of the earth, and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day
of God Almighty."
This remarkable passage will now be understood as Prophecy, and as
foretelling " miracles," wrought by " spirits of devils," (all literal,) with
other " lying wonders," and mysterious " phenomena," to take place on
" earth," previous to the resurrection and judgment of the " great day,"
and precisely the same " miracles " or " phenomena," as those which
are now very generally coming to pass in a great variety of forms, in
" the whole world," and called by different names ; while, as supposed,
they are far the most frequent, because the most popular, under the pre-
sent fascinating appellation of the " Science of Animal Magnetism :"
" or Mesmerism :" Therefore, in the present discourse, Mesmerism will
be regarded, not as among the Sciences at all, nor as a mere human imposi-
tion, but as Sorcery, or the mysterious works of " unclean spirits," or
the spirit of Satan the false prophet, especially in its most astonishing works
of "Clairvoyance," so called, however it may be considered in its
other, less wonderful exhibitions.
Of the exhibition of these wonders, I have been myself an eye-witness
in part. I have learnt of them from many other accredited eye-witnesses,
both advocates and opponents of Mesmerism. I have also learnt of them
from several distinguished practical Magnetisers, on public occasions, and
in private, and from such of their standard works on the subject as have
fallen in my way. And here it is farther proper to say, that these pheno-
mena or wonders, are now being exhibited in nearly, if not quite, all the
considerable cities and villages of Christendom ; while Mesmerism is even
taught as a Science, under professorships, in several Colleges in Europe,
though not held up and published as a Science, till 1750, when it was so
done by Fred. A. Mesmer, M. D., of Germany, whose name it now
bears. Without further introduction, the subject may now be presented
under the following divisions ; by showing,
I. How Mesmerism is exhibited, and some of its most common wondersy
or phenomena.
II. That it is not a science.
III. That the arguments in favour of its real utility or excellency, are
unsound ; and
IV. That it is Sorcery, or is performed by Satanic agency, in many
cases-
I. How Mesmerism is exhibited, fyc
1. By this mysterious power, whatever it may be considered, one per-
son puts another into an unnatural or Magnetic sleep, in which case, many
times, or quite generally, no person can awake the one asleep, except the
same or another Magnetizer.
2. This Magnetic sleep is usually produced, so far as human means ara
concerned, by the will of the Magnetizer, who wills his patient to fall
asleep, &c, accompanied by the downward, or up and downward move-
ments of his own hands, touching, or nearly touching, the person magne-
tised. This process is continued for a longer or shorter time, generally
not exceeding twenty minutes, though sometimes this Magnetism is pro-
duced without such an outward process. And to remove this Magnetism,
the will and motions of the Magnetiser are usually reversed.
3. The feeling produced by this process on persons awake, has been
compared to the natural sleeping of their limbs.
4. When in this Magnetic sleep, individuals are frequently made to talk,
walk and act, nearly as though awake, or like the Somnambulists or sleep-
walkers, when, by certain touches upon the various parts of their heads,
called bumps or organs, they are made to exhibit very prominently in their
actions, the extremes of self-esteem, benevolence, covetousness, veneration,
combativeness, love of children, hunger, thirst, and other passions of the
human constitution.
5. In the same sleep, persons are frequently paralyzed, or perfectly stif-
fened, by the will of the Magnetiser, and by the movements of" his hands as
before mentioned, while placed in various natural or unnatural postures,
in which stiffened position, as maintained by Magnetisers, they must usu-
ally remain, indefinitely, or until relieved by the same or another Mag-
netiser.
6- In this sleep, very frequently, not always, when desired or willed, per-
sons become clarivoyant as it is called, when by a friend's putting himselt
into communication with them, or by a very intimate or familiar sitting
down together, hand in hand, &c, the person magnetised and asleep, can
really see to read without eyes, or while perfectly blinded. They can
also give the person in communication, any desired intelligence of his own
family and affairs, as they are, at that very moment, though hundreds of
miles off, and describe other places, matters and things accordingly, at any
distances from whence other and satisfactory evidence can at the time, or
afterwards, be obtained, showing whether such descriptions are correct.
And thus they have discovered lost goods, and where drowned persons
might be found. Also, they have described, in some cases, the internal
diseases of the human system, and prescribed effectual remedies, even be-
yond the skill of the learned physician, as is capable of full proof, or from
thousands of competent witnesses.
7. In the same sleep, many persons are having their defective teeth ex-
tracted, and great and difficult surgical operations performed, without the
least sense of pain, or Sensibility at all, on the part of the patient.
S. In some instances, persons have been magnetised at remote distances,
and as Mf.smer represents of himself, he actually magnetised a tree, so
that persons on coming within a few feet of it, were thus magnetised.
They also tell of their magnetising water, which magnetises persons who
drink it. And Mr. Sunderland, late of the City of New York, who has
been, and is now, one of the most prominent Magnetisers of the age, hav-
ing also published a book, periodical, and other things on the subject, in-
formed me that he magnetised a finger-ring , and sent it half a mile to a
young lady, who was most hastily put into a magnetic sleep by applying
it to her finger, having been himself in very great haste to leave his oifice
when he magnetised the ring. Since this, I have learnt very directly, that
he magnetised a business card, and a letter, by which he awoke two young
ladies by sending the card and letter to them at Providence, R. I., though
he was at Boston, Ms., when he thus awoke one of them, whom nothing
else could awake for the ten da}r
s before.
9. In most cases, as Mesmerizers have said, this power cannot be ef-
fectually exerted, except on persons who at least, consent to have it tried
upon them, though sometimes it is done without the consent or knowledge
of persons, till informed of it, when all is passed.
10. The most easy subjects of Mesmerism are usually those persons
who have been most frequently magnetized.
11. In order, generally, for the most sure and ready success in magne-
tizing, there must be the greatest composure with all present during the
process, while a manifest or even secret hostility to the work in any pres-
ent, is said to operate against it.
12. The Magnetizer must also usually possess stronger mental and
physical powers than the patient, in order to succeed ; and in such cases,
females and small children can magnetize their weaker associates in their
first attempts, on many occasions.
13. I saw a lad of about 14 years old, put into this sleep by " Prof.
Rogers," at New York, which lad did then, in presence of a whole con-
gregation of witnesses, apparently and repeatedly lift an armed chair with
six large men in it, or combining their weight and strength to keep it on
the floor. But in the process, the chair was partially broken, the men
were lifted and scattered across the stage, when immediately the boy
asleep raised the chair as high as his head.
II. Some reasons are next to be given against the position assumed by
many, that Mesmerism is a science.
1. Its moving power or agency is a hidden mystery or a profound secret,
not to be learnt even by the most experienced Magnetizers. Many of the
most successful in this work, do not pretend to any definite knowledge on
this point, though some of them have maintained that it is a fluid which
they call the " magnetic fluid," passing invisibly from the Magnetizer to
the Magnetized. But most certainly this theory of the magnetic power
rather conflicts with common sense, because fluid, which is only matter,
is not intelligent like the mesmeric phenomena already noticed. Others
maintain that the mesmeric power is human sympathy, and though we
admit that such a sympathy with certain repeated actions of one person up-
on another may lull them to sleep, as in case of children, by rocking and
singing, yet this natural sleep is not to be compared with the strange phe-
nomena of Mesmerism. Others say that this power is electricity, but can-
not show how the electric fluid, which is mere matter, can communicate
such unnatural intelligence to the spirit or mind, as exhibited b}r
mesmerised
persons when clairvoyant. Other Magnetizers admit that this power is at
present unknown, and yet to sustain it as a science, they tell us that there
are other things in nature, which are mysterious as well as this. Admitting
the latter as a fact, it does not prove Mesmerism to be science, any more
than it proves the mysterious phenomena of ancient sorcery to have been
science : while it is certainly a fact, that no science has ever been studied,
doing such wonders as those of Mesmerism, the very principles of which,
could not be learnt even by the most scientific.
2. The illiterate, females, and young children, as already noticed, have
frequently succeeded in magnetizing their feebler associates on their first
attempts to do it ; but as all sciences must first be learnt before being prac-
tised, most surely no person can practise science at all, in practising Mes-
merism, before ever learning it as a science, while it is self-evident that no
phenomena of a science, can be exhibited by persons totally ignorant of
the first principles of the science to produce them.
3. It will probably be granted on examination, that there can be no
science, nor first principles of a science, in the exhibition, already noticed,
of a mere lad, while sound asleep, lifting at least 600 pounds, or four times
as much as able to do when awake with his natural strength. And surely,
none will attempt to show how a science ever so important, can commu-
nicate four-fold strength to a boy asleep.
4. And is it not also, self-evident, that it is not a mere science by which
persons asleep and blinded too, can be made to see and read things pre-
sented to them, placed over or behind their heads, and to see or know all
about matters and things at the greatest distances, by which they have
actually outdone the late invented telegraph, in bringing important intel-
ligence hundreds and thousands ofmiles, with great particularity and accura-
cy, and as rapidly as they can conveniently utter it in their sleep, without any
possible means of knowing at all of such matters, except from the aid of
Mesmerism. Most surely , then, this was never learnt as sciences are learnt.
Neither has a science which they never learnt, any thing to do with their
sometimes discerning accurately the internal diseases of the human body
and prescribing for them even beyond the skill of the most scientific phy-
sicians. I am aware that such facts as these, will be questioned by many,
and that they still would be, should the testimony of ten thousand credible
witnesses be brought forward to substantiate them, which I doubt not
could easily be done, if undertaken. But as such testimony is already so
abundantly published, and as my present object is not to collect and pre-
sent this proof, I proceed and say
:
5. As further proof that Mesmerism is not a science, it may be remarked
that Magnetisers themselves have never presented any direct proof, aside
from bare assertion, that it is so. To be sure, they have said, that it is a
science not yet well understood, like that of " the circulation of the
blood," the theory of " the solar system," " steam power," &c, once
great mysteries, but now, sciences well understood. But might not the
sorcery of Simon of old, as well be proved a science by the same argu-
ment ? And besides, there is no parallel in the two cases, since there
never was any thing in the blood, the solar system, nor in steam power,
which, when not well understood, were so manifestly contrary to common
sense and to the well understood laws of nature, as in Animal Magnetism,
if regarded as among the sciences.
6. The Scriptures, if I mistake not, do virtually teach that the pro-
fessed science of Mesmerism is but a " science falsely so called ;" in
opposition to the truth, in cautioning us to avoid "profane and vain
babblings and oppositions of science falsely so called, which some professing,
have erred, concerning the faith," (1 Tim. 6: 20, 21.) And where, in
the pages of history, can any one thing be found, claiming to be a science
so universally in Christendom, having at the same time so much attached
to it, palpably showing it to be only a " science falsely so called," as that
of Mesmerism ? Such false sciences were certainly to arise to cause error
in " opposition " to " the truth ;" and if this be not one of them, I see not
how any of them are ever to be known and avoided, when coming to pass.
III. Some of the supposed chief arguments in favour of the utility of
Mesmerism arc next to be answered.
1. It has been argued that Mesmerism is a public benefit in its power to
relieve pain, heal diseases, extract teeth, amputate limbs, &c, without
pain. Though statements like these, are hard to be received as facts, there
are certainly thousands of credible eye-witnesses who have testified to
them as facts in many cases, notwithstanding the many failures on the
part of Magnetisers to produce such wonders. There being, therefore, no
sure, or regular dependance on this power as a remedy in the above cases,
is against the admission of the argument ; and besides, if the failures were
less and the doing of such things more frequent and sure, it would after all,
be no less than a counteracting of the laws of nature, or hindering the
execution of the just and necessary penalty of their violation. And should
we suppose that Mesmerism might be so far successful as to heal every
disease, prevent every pain, and cause the cessation of all tribulation
produced by sin, in " this present evil world;" would it not after all, be an
evil, rather than a permanent benefit to mankind, in its thus naturally
hindering their final everlasting salvation ; since it is only " through much
tribulation that we shall enter into the kingdom of God." The healing of
diseases, pains, &c, by natural means, is not a violation of the laws of
nature, as in case of Mesmerism, but rather a very proper helping to
execute them. And should the argument still be retained, that Mesmerism
cannot be any thing evil, because of the acknowledged good, it has done to
persons who have sought its aid ; I might reply, that " sorcery " also,
was acknowledged as doing individuals, certainly an apparent or tempo-
rary good ; or " Simon " would not naturally have made it a money making
business as it appears he did, in bewitching " the people with sorcery," and
in offering " money " for " the Holy Ghost," which he seemed to suppose
8
would make him still more successful in sorcery. (Acts 8: 9, 11, 18.)
The " damsel " also, who " brought her masters much gain [or money j
by soothsaying," [or sorcery] must have been acknowledged as doing
some " good," to the persons thus patronizing her and her masters, or
they, the customers, would not naturally have paid their money so freely
for her performances. And yet she was " possessed with a spirit ot
divination," unclean spirit, or spirit of Satan, which Paul " in the name
of Jesus Christ," cast " out of her." (Acts 16 : 16-19, &c.)
2. It has also been argued, that Mesmerism assists men in their pecu-
niary affairs, by its showing them how and where they may succeed best
in such matters, also in regaining lost property. To which I reply, that
if its help of this kind, were a thousand fold greater than it has been, it
would not prove it, on the whole, to be a real or permanent benefit to the
world, neither would it prove Mesmerism to be better than conjurology,
or sorcery, because such are the very " exploits " or phenomena which
conjurers or sorcerers have professed to perform, and have performed,
more or less, in all ages, with their many failures and impositions, as we
learn from present facts, from authentic history, and from the Holy Scrip-
tures. And further, if Mesmerism can perform such wonders for an apparent
good purpose, it would be natural to suspect its performing similar wonders
for a bad purpose, much the most frequently, since it is at least a hundred
fold more in the hands of selfish, than of truly benevolent men, considering
also, the prevalent great wickedness of the age in which we live.
3. Another supposed principal argument in favour of Mesmerism is,
that so many worthy and discerning men think well of it, and even go so
far in practising it themselves. Though I admit the facts here stated,
the argument is not sound in favour of Mesmerism, since even such men
are capable of being at present deceived, and will be deceived « in the
latter times " by « seducing spirits," so as actually to depart " from the
faith in "giving heed to" them. (1 Tim. 4: 1, 2.) Christ also,
represented that such » false prophets," or lying spirits, would " deceive
it it were possible, the very elect," i. e. fatally; (Matt. 24: 11, 24 )
And so worthy and « perfect " a man as Job, was certainly so tempted
by Satan, that he even "cursed the day" of his birth ; while Peter, one
ot the holy apostles, under a similar temptation, three times denied Christ,
and even with cursing and swearing. David also, a man after God's
own heart, was so deceived and tempted by the same father of lies,
that he persisted against wise counsel and entreaty in having Israel num-
bered on a certain occasion, which was so offensive to God, as to cause
the immediate slaughtering of « 70,000 " of the people by "pestilence."
(
1
Uiron. 21 :
1-14.) Our first parents also, though created without sin,
once thought so well of Satan and joined with him, as to bring death
upon our whole race. Why then admit such an argument in favour of
Mesmerism when the best men of all living, have been so deceived in
thinking well for a time, of satanic wiles ?
4 The mysterious works or phenomena of somnambulism, or sleep
waUmg, are sometimes urged, in defence of Mesmerism. And it is true,
that persons in this state, both males and females, have, many times,
lectured, preached, sung and prayed miraculously, as it were, as they had
never learned to do when awake, performing difficult labour, going into
the river to bathe, and walking safely in very dangerous places, knowing
nothing of it themselves, afterwards. But as this also, appears to be an
nnnatural sleep, producing unnatural or supernatural phenomena, I could
not admit the argument from it, in defence of Mesmerism. Seeing that
somnambulism and Mesmerism produce such similar and superhuman
phenomena, I doubt not they are produced by the same mysterious power,
which surely seems more like the works of the false prophet, or god of
this world, than of the God of heaven.
5. Another argument sometimes used in favour of Mesmerism, is, that
in its astonishing phenomena, it becomes an unanswerable proof that there
is a God, who is able to do things so marvellous, thus making it an anti-
dote against infidelity. To this, I reply, we need no such evidence of the
divine existence, since the light of nature and inspiration are amply suffi-
cient for this purpose. And thus far, I have heard of no conversion from
infidelity to Christianity by means of such phenomena, so that I have much
reason to question whether even one practical Christian can be found, who
has become so, mainly, or primarily, by means of this power, though I
doubt not, that practical infidelity is rather much promoted thereby in its
naturally hindering men from believing, or following the meek and lowly
Jesus, as in case of " Elymas the sorcerer," in his seeking to " turn away
the deputy from the faith," when Paul was presenting to him the claims
of the gospel, as though this was the special object of the sorcerer, who
was then struck blind by a miracle of that Apostle. (Acts 13: 8-12,)
doubtless designed as a lasting rebuke to such business.
IV. It now remains to present proof direct, that Mesmerism is sorcery ;
or that its real phenomena are performed by the dark powers of Satan
himself.
But considering the present prevailing sentiment that it is weakness,
delusion and superstition itself, to believe in the existence of sorcery at all,
and how many there are who would seemingly deny the existence of any
devil, except the natural " evil dispositions " of bad characters, I despair
of establishing this position in the view of such individuals, and shall not
attempt it, yet I would say,
1
.
That these magnetic, real phenomena have every appearance of being
supernatural, or miraculous, and yet the persons exhibiting them, do not
pretend that they are wrought by the power of God, in answer to their
own prayers, as in case of the miracles wrought by Moses, Daniel, the
Apostles, and others. Then, indeed, if they are miracles of some kind, and
not wrought directly by divine power, what other than a satanic power
or power of sorcery could be sufficient to perform them ?
2. Phenomena similar to those of Mesmerism, are called " sorcery,"
" magic," " witchcraft," &c. repeatedly in the word of God. They have
also appeared in the various ages of the world. The phenomena or
miracles of " Jannes aud Jambres " who were magicians in Egypt, who
" withstood Moses " by imitating some of the miracles which he there
wrought by the power of God, will not be forgotten, (2 Tim. 3 : 8, 9.
10
Ex.7: 11, 12, 22, and 8: 7,18.) The wonder of the witch of Endor by
whom Samuel was actually brought up from the dead, the " familiar spirits
and the wizards " which king Saul " put away," or "cut off," will be
remembered. (1 Sam. 28: 3, 7-16.) We recollect also, "A certain
man called Simon, which beforetime, in the same city, used sorcery and
bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great
one," causing " all," " from the least to the greatest," to say of him, " this
man is the great power of God," (Acts 8 : 9-11.) The " seven sons of
one Sceva a Jew," with their " companions," who were " vagabonds " and
"exorcists," or sorcerers, who attempted, but failed of imitating the mira-
cles of Paul, will be remembered ; also, the " damsel possessed with a
spirit of divination," or an unclean spirit, as before mentioned, which
Paul in the name of Christ, cast out of her, (Acts 19 : 13-16, and 16 :
16-29.) Various persons, both males and females, are mentioned in the
Scriptures by different names, such as sorcerers, magicians, soothsayers,
wise men, wizards, witches, false prophets, prophets of Baal, astrologers,
dreamers, monthly prognosticators, necromancers, diviners, charmers,
enchanters, mutterers, peepers, $c, and are many times represented as
performing their phenomena or wonders, by the aid of unclean spirits,
which were often cast out of them by divine power. Having so much
inspired testimony of works so similar to those of Mesmerism, called in
Scripture, " sorcery," « magic," " witchcraft," &c. why not call them by
the same names still ? though it be in the " nineteenth century," when,
as some would say, it is " quite too late, to look for sorcery anywhere."
And certainly it is no strange thing, if, in these days of increased universal
wickedness, similar phenomena should be exhibited again by the same evil
spirits, remaining still on the earth to seduce the unwary ; and so much the
more likely will they naturally be to exhibit their " lying wonders," &c.
(2 Thess. 1 : 9,) where not suspected at all, as such, but where the
{•eople " from the least to the greatest " speak well of them as from " the
great power of God," &c. or at least, not to be spoken against, as sorcery.
Thus swindlers, black-legs, and pick-pockets, have always far the most
success in their evil deeds, where the people are least suspicious of them
as such, and rather respect them as worthy characters.
3. In days quite modern, certain phenomena similar to those of Mes-
merism, and apparently from satanic power, have been exhibited by many
individuals singly, or without the two-fold process of one person's magne-
tizing another to produce them. In many cases, also, persons have been
paralyzed awake, as though by Mesmerism, by other persons, when both
parties were ignorant of Mesmerism. Though I have in mind scores of
facts, apparently as superhuman, as the phenomena now before us, having
nothing to do with the means used in Mesmerism, I must be brief in
naming some of them. And may I not here say, that discoveries recently
made in relation to these things, have made me far more credulous than
formerly, in regard to the alleged exploits ot " conjurers," within the past
century, the reported " witchcraft " at Salem, Mass. in the early settle-
ment of this country, or in " 1692 " and in regard to many other similar
things which I had before considered, as many do still, as nothing but
11
human craft or jugglery, by -which the eye-witnesses were merely deluded,
who published them to the world as sorcery or witchcraft. Under this head,
I will first notice the wonders of paralyzing or stiffening individuals awake,
making the "knees of others smite together like Belshazzar^s," fyc which
were related to me and others in the spring of 1844, by a Mr. B. from
Con. These wonders, as he said, were wrought by himself and another
Christian brother who lectured, and but a short time before he related the
facts to me and others in New York city. On that occasion, as he inform-
ed, the witnesses in their assembled congregations, were much astonished
and some of them alarmed, at what their eyes beheld of the wonders as
above, while others were angered and enraged at them, so that he was
himself violently dragged out of the house by them, and stamped down
under their feet, while, during the process, he was himself perfectly stiff,
and received not the least pain or injury thereby. This stiffening, &c. of
others without their consent, he said was done by himself and his colleague,
in their united earnest prayers to God, that just such things might then
be done. In his prayers, he said he practised " throwing his hands and
arms up and down," saying—" Lord, send the power—send the power,"
&c. Here, it seems, that in willing such things, and in the " up and
down," movements of their hands, there was an unconscious imitation of
the means of Mesmerism, though as learnt on inquiry, they had no special
knowledge of it, and had no thought of any Other power in their success,
than that of the Holy Ghost, which they supposed they needed and had
sought, on such occasions.
Next I will give a brief extract from a work entitled " The Devil in
the 19th century. Two discourses, delivered at Hardwick, Vt. May 6th,
1838, by Rev. Chester Wright."
« Early in the year 1837, meetings in the South Meeting House in
Hardwick, began to be characterized, as was reported, by tumultuous
noises," drawing " multitudes from the surrounding country to this town
from Sabbath to Sabbath, to see * the droll meeting.' The < drollery ' of
this meeting consisted, according to the report of attendants, of jumping,
swinging the arms [as in Mesmerism, H. J.] rolling on the floor, frightful
yelling, barking in imitation of dogs, foxes, cuckoos," &c. continuing
" twelve or fifteen months," i. e- more or less so, while for a time, " a
portion of the 2d Congregational church and other churches continued to
attend, and to approve of the meetings and occasionally to exhort," &c.
Seeing that such things as in the preceding cases, so similar to those of
mesmeric power have been passing as genuine Christianity, in view of
many, I cannot avoid the present apprehension that much, in highly ex-
cited religious meetings for the last half century or more, and in the appa-
rent almost miraculous conversions related by many persons, as the al-
leged extraordinary work of the Holy Spirit, has been rather the foretold
and intermingled work of sorcery or Satan transformed "into an angel of
light," to imitate strangely, and thus to stigmatise the religion of Christ.
'
I mention also, the case of Miss Kidder, a young woman ot Marshfield
Vt. about the year 1830, but a very short distance from my residence at
that time. Being unlearned and not professedly pious, she had an attack
12
of disease, and sent for a physician, and soon she had a vision or trance as
represented, which was wonderful. After which she was endowed with
an apparent supernatural power or intelligence for about one week, by
which she could, and did actually reveal astonishing secrets, before many
witnesses, answering hundreds of questions with perfect accuracy, con-
cerning matters, persons and things of other towns and places, of which she
had no possible means of knowing at all, except from the apparent mi-
raculous intelligence with which she was then endowed. Then all at
once, her power of knowing and disclosing such things left her, and sbe
became as before.
In the town of Plainfield, adjoining the above place, another similar per-
sonage, or young woman arose in the summer of 1844, whose revelations
of secret and mysterious matters, equally astonished the witnesses, to
whom many went large distances for the revelation of mysterious matters,
concerning diseases, &c who afterwards expressed their conviction that
there was a power or intelligence exhibited by her, in their presence,
which was superhuman.
Another case may now be given of a plain honest man of Vt., who gave
me the account, some years ago, which is briefly as follows : Having no
children of his own, he had taken a boy to live with him as an adopted
son. His heart, he knew, was uncommonly set on the lad. In these cir-
cumstances, his business called him to go to Boston with a team. But all
the while of his preparing to go, he was afflicted with the deep apprehen-
sion that if he went, the lad of his affections would die in his absence.
But inasmuch as he, the lad, was perfectly well at the time, he rebuked
himself as giving up to vain visions, and endeavoured to shake them off,
but could not do it. With such feelings he left home all well, and went
on to Boston. The first night after coming away towards home, in his
bed-chamber, all alone, wide awake, in the dead hour of the night, he had
a real vision of his own house and family in Vt. and saw most clearly the
lad spoken of, in a dying posture, with the afflicted family hanging over
him, till he saw him breathe his last in death, &c. He said he was then as
sure of its being all a reality, and that the boy actually died at that exact
time, as if he had been at home and witnessed it there. After this, he re-
turned home at the time appointed, and on meeting his first neighbour, he
hastily inquired if the lad were really dead, and found that it was so, and
that he died in the manner and at the precise time, he had witnessed it
some 200 miles off.
Another case is that of a boy in Essex County N. Y. not far from the
year 1830, who was about eight years old, and as related to me not long
after, by neighbours knowing to the facts, the boy, while in a state of per-
fect health, seemed somehow, to have a revelation of his own death, so
that very solemnly, he foretold for a certainty that he should die, at such
a day and hour within a week or so after that time, and although his
parents thought nothing of it as a reality, the boy was taken sick a few
days before the time, and actually died at the precise time, as he had fore-
told. I would not now hazard stating such things as facts, had not others
of reputation published thousands of a like character, with much proof
13
of their being real. These things being so, I cannot understand them
otherwise than as a species of miracles, rather than " the influence of the
imagination on the nervous system," as some have supposed in all such
cases. Then, if miracles at all, and not wrought by the Lord himself, as
the Bible seems to prove that they are not, they certainly so far resemble
the mesmeric phenomena of clairvoyance, that I must consider them all
together, and as performed by the same intelligent familiar spirits, (imita-
ting for no permanently good purpose) the revelations and miracles of the
Almighty, however worthy or unworthy the persons experiencing, or ex-
hibiting such things.
A still more remarkable case may now be given, and that is, of a repu-
table Methodist class-leader in P—'s Ville, near C—n in the state of New
York, and though I was not myself an eye-witness, I had all the facts in
the case, from unquestionable authority, as follows.—About the 20th of
Oct. 1844, this brother attended an extraordinary meeting of adventists so
called, who were confidently expecting the end of the world, &c. within
about two days. But, being himself an opponent to that peculiar theory,
and attending rather from curiosity, the apparent power of the meeting
failed of sensibly affecting him on the subject. Yet he thought more
than usual on the advent of Christ, the next day, but less than this, the
day after. The following evening, being fatigued, he retired earlier to bed
than usual, but could not sleep, though nothing special was on his mind
to keep him wakeful. Just after midnight, while still awake, his room
was brilliantly illuminated by a very bright volume or streak of light, re-
sembling polished steel, and about three inches wide, upon the floor, ex-
tending from one door of the room to the opposite. Soon a bright volume
of smoke arose from this streak of light, and moved on the streak toward
the outward door. Then it seemed to him that he clearly saw the volume
of smoke pass out through the closed door into the street, and then pass all
the way down three miles to C—n village, where it then suddenly disap-
peared. Soon after this, while still wakeful in bed, he felt a sudden and
strange sensation seizing upon his whole body, which he compared to the
natural sleeping of his limbs, [like Mesmerism, H. J.] This strange feel-
ino-
soon left him. It seized him thus again and left him : But when it
came the third time, it brought him suddenly out of bed upon the floor,
when, with the utmost haste, he dressed himself, and sped his way out
through the kitchen into the street. His wife perceiving it, inquired what
he was going to do. Without seeming to think any thing about what ob-
ject he had in view, he answered,—" Just what the Lord has for me to do."
Immediately on coming into the street, another strange feeling like matter,
came into his feet, filling him up, as he expressed it, higher and higher,
like the steam in the engine, till it came up as high as his mouth, when,
as suddenly, and before he was aware, he cried out aloud, " My Lord is a
coming, my Lord is a coming," repeating it. Then, as though by a pleas-
ing constraint, and in a swinging posture too, he went on down the street,
where he had seen the volume of smoke pass but just before, crying aloud
all the way as he went on,—" My Lord is a coming, my Lord is a coming,"
&c. And though on the way, his minister, hearing and knowing his
14
voice, came out and a young man with him, to inquire of the noisy man,
what he was about, he paid no attention to any thing, but continued the
same cry. And as his minister was approaching him, he distinctly heard
a voice saying, " Look not behind you—Remember Lot's wife." Then
he felt that there was no turning his head, nor any thing else for him to
do, but pleasingly to go forward continuing the same cry, with the young
man by his side, (his minister having returned back,) till he came to
C u village, and to the very spot where he had seen the smoke disap-
pear, when all his strange feelings left him at once, and he became the same
as before, and could relate the whole story as above given.
Whatever might be the real source or power of these last phenomena,
I mention them thus minutely, because they so far resemble those of Mes-
merism already given. And yet, this man certainly had nothing to do, of
himself with the common means of Mesmerism. Still the phenomena in
the case, were as powerful and signally performed as though the will and
hands of the Magnetiser had been engaged in the affair. And if I mistake
not, this shows that the real mysterious power of Mesmerism, in many
cases, is supernatural, and not dependent at all, on human means, in its as-
tonishing exhibitions.
As further proof against Mesmerism, I present the fact, that its phenomena,
in many respects, are precisely the same as those now being exhibited
by hundreds and thousands of persons, male and female, in our cities and
through the country, calling themselves " Astrologers," " fortune
tellers," " magicians," &c. discovering lost things, revealing the im-
portant affairs of life, " present, past, and to come," of their patrons, though
strangers to each other ;
performing these wonders of clairvoyance, as
called in Mesmerism, not by that process, but rather by an " urn of water
with a steel rod " balancing over it, by " the stars," " a pack of cards " &c.
&c. besides the 10,000 slight of hand and juggling tricks practised by
some of them in mock imitation of miracles. These persons by advertis-
ing, hanging out their signs, &c, as I have seen, are many of them thronged
with business in their line, day after day, and week after week, thus pro-
curing for themselves " much gain," and though many of their attempts,
of the clairvoyant character are complete failures or impositions, yet their
exhibitions of real phenomena, so to call them, are understood to be as
frequent as in case of the clairvoyant exploits of Mesmerism.
4. A multiplicity of facts, of other supernatural phenomena, both pub-
lished and unpublished, now in my recollection, might here be given, if
necessary, apparently showing that the moving power in Mesmerism, is
sorcery, or " miracles " of satan, the false prophet, especially in its phe-
nomena of clairvoyance, even if we admit for argument's sake, that all its
other exploits are produced, by a " magnetic fluid," " human sympathy,"
or " electricity," as different Magnetisers have maintained in case of the
phenomena throughout.
5. Another reason for considering Mesmerism to be sorcery, is, that very
generally, as understood, from Magnetisers, its most surprising phenomena
cannot be exhibited in presence of persons openly or even secretly hostile
to such performances. But were they performed by a natural cause or
15
power, either a fluid, sympathy, or electricity, as in case of the phenomena
of nature, surely the hostile prejudices of persons present, could no more
operate against their full exhibition, than against the report of a cannon
when the fire is applied to the powder with which it is charged.
6. The palpable disagreement among Magnetisers themselves, concerning
its astonishing power, is also considered as proving it to be socery, rather
than a science, as it is called by its advocates ; but as these conflicting
theories have some of them been already noticed, they need not now be
repeated. Were such phenomena the mere effects of natural causes,
rather than of sorcery, surely there would be no occasion for so many dis-
cordant opinions of their natural cause, among those who are most learnt
and experienced too, in showing off these wonders. No such contradic-
tions ever arise among the manufacturers or owners of steam engines in
ships, &c. though perhaps nearly the whole crew and passengers may be
quite ignorant of the internal and invisible apparatus of such engines.
I am aware of being answered, that, as Mesmerism is a science yet in its
infancy, it is not surprising that Magnetisers are as yet, no better agreed
in accounting for it. But I have already fully shown, as appears to me,
that it is not a science at all, and that such as it is ; it is not in its infancy ;
because as we have seen, from the holy oracles, the same or similar phe-
nomena to those of Mesmerism, have been common in all ages, as the
works of sorcery, though not called a science, nor by its present name, till
within less than a century past. And even, since 1750, when Mesmeb
presented it to the world as a science, there has been sufficient time, con-
sidering the improved age of the sciences in which we live, for scientific
men to become better agreed than at present, in what are the first princi-
ples of this science, were it proper so to call it. And besides, the very
motions of Mesmerism were common in the days of Elisha the prophet,
as will appear by Naaman's then saying, when wishing to be healed, " /
thought he will surely come out to me, and stand,—and move up and down
his hand over the place and recover the leper." (See marginal reading,
2 Kings, 5: 11.)
7. As another proof of the Sorcery of Mesmerism, it should be remem-
bered that the Bible foretells "wonders,"—" miracles." &c.,to be wit-
nessed " in the latter times," to be sorcery, or from evil " spirits," which
answer precisely to the phenomena now before us. Some specimens of
which may here be given.
1. Tim. 4 : 1, 2, " Now the spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter
times, some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits," &c.
1. John, 4: 1, 2, "Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the
spirits, because many false prophets, (or false spirits,) are gone out into
the world."
2. Thess. 2 : 8, 12, " And then, (at the judgment,) shall that wicked
(one) be revealed, (so as to be seen,) whose coming is, (or will be before
the judgment,) after the working of Satan, with all power and signs, and
lying wonders, and with all deceiveableness of unrighteousness in them
that perish," &c
2. Tim. 3 : 8, 13, " Now as Jannes and Jambres, (magicians or sor-
.16
cerers,) withstood Moses, (with Satanic miracles,) so do these also,
(wicked men " in the last days," vs. 1,7;) resist the truth, but evil men
and seducers, (as these sorcerers,) shall wax worse and worse, deceiving
and being deceived," with the works of sorcery, &c, as understood.
Mat. 24 : 24, U For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets,
and shall show great signs and wonders, (or " phenomena,") insomuch,
that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect," so as to encou-
rage these " great wonders," at least, so far as not to resist them as Sorcery.
Rev. 13 : 13, 17, " And he, (the beast or Satan,) doeth great wonders,
(or " phenomena," as called in Mesmerism,) so that he maketh fire come
down—ontheearthin the sight of men, (or as visibly performs the wonders,)
and deceiveth them that dwell on the earth, (or quite universally,) by reason
of those miracles, (Satanic " miracles," or " phenomena,") which he had
power to do in the sight of the beast," or of the body following the head.
Rev. 16 : 13, 14. " And I saw three, (or many,) unclean spirits like
frogs, come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the
beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, (all of Satan as under-
stood,) for they are spirits of devils, (literally,) working miracles, (or
mesmeric, and other supernatural phenomena,) which go forth unto the
kings of the earth, and of the whole world," or universally, among the
greatest, as now with Mesmerism, abundantly throughout all Christendom.
Rev. 19 : 20. " And the beast, (Satanic combined power,) was taken,
(or conquered finally,) and with him the false prophet, (or Satan himself,
and his principal coadjutors,) that wrought miracles, (as above,) before
him, (or before the Satanic combination " of the whole world,") with
which he deceiveth them that had received the mark, (or full character or
spirit,) of the beast, and them that worshipped his image;" (or his many
idols, whether professedly and formally or not.)
Without farther comment on these passages, as specimens of many simi-
lar ones, I would just say, that I see not what " great wonders," " mira-
cles," and "lying wonders," of "seducing spirits," of "Satan," "the
false prophet," to deceive " the whole world," of the unbelieving, could
more signally and universally fulfil these prophecies, than the many aston-
ishing " miracles," or phenomena of Mesmerism, now, and of late prevail-
ing over the whole earth, or civilized world, where there is wealth enough
to spare, to purchase their performance. And, if these things are not
among the sorcery or Satanic " miracles," of the above prophecies, I see
not how they ever can have a literal fulfilment.
8. My last reason now to be given, for regarding the astonishing phe-
nomena of Mesmerism as Sorcery, is, that the enormous evils they seem
calculated and designed to accomplish on the whole earth, appear too per-
fectly in the image of Satan himself, to be considered as having a better
origin, than from him. In its imitating, by " miracles" the holy workot
the Most High, to bring Satanic odium upon it, and upon God's character
also, naturally turns men away from the Lord, and thus from their everlast-
ing interests, to be rather enchanted with Satanic and " lying wonders ," so
that there seems to be no estimating the amount of evil, which I conceive it
to be accomplishing in thus destroying the human race, by hindering thou-
n
sands of millions from seeking and obtaining eternal life, in precisely the
same way, as Pharaoh's " Magicians" or " Sorcerers" attempted by their
mafic miracles, imitating those of Moses and Aaron, to hinder God's peo-
ple from escaping their terrible Egyptian bondage. Just so it was with
" Elymas the Sorcerer," in his attempts by sorcery, to turn away the de-
puty from the faith" when he was about to believe to the saving of his
soul. The " seven sons of one Sceva, a Jew," and " their companions,"
who were all " exorcists," or sorcerers, evidently had the same evil in
view, in their fruitless undertakings to cast out devils, " in the name of
Jesus," as Paul and others were doing ; and no doubt, in my own mind,
the female soothsayer, or sorceress which followed " Paul and Silas,"
" many days," saying, " these men are the servants of the Most High God,
which show unto us the way of salvation ;" was attempting to make the
most ridiculous and disgraceful mock of the work of these Apostles, to
bring " the way of salvation," into entire contempt, thus to turn the mul-
titudes away from it, in their daily hearing it preached by a sorceress,
apparently associated with the Lord's apostles. And that very evil must
have been what so " grieved," Paul, when he "turned" and said unto
the unclean " spirit," within her ;
" I command thee, in the name of
Jesus Christ, to come out of her. And he came out the same hour."
In addition to the above, the phenomena of Mesmerism afford surprising
facilities for accomplishing evil, in regard to the less important temporal
interests of the unwary. But in saying this I am sometimes met with the
assertion that these phenomena " cannot be^performed, or used for a bad
purpose, so that there is no fear of evil from that source." But this is
certainly unfounded assertion ; since we have too much demonstrative
proof to the contrary ; and besides, practical Magnetizers have many of
them admitted that they can be used " by the worst of men and for the
worst of purposes." I shall therefore proceed on this admission. And if
called on to name the evils of a temporal nature, already done by the mes-
meric phenomena, I must admit their number to be less than otherwise
coming to my knowledge, from the fact, that it is but a few years since
Mesmerism, as such, was much brought before the American, public, and
besides, that its facilities for effectually concealing its crimes, are such as to
hinder our knowing or naming them particularly, in one case of a thousand.
Yet I have seen persons much injured in their peace and faculties of mind,
as I doubted not by means of the evil power ofMesmerism, though the mys-
tery in the case, naturally hinders our obtaining convincing proof to others,
that it was so. And in further demonstration ofmy present position, let it be
remembered that Magnetizers themselves, admit and maintain, that by this
power persons may be put into a magnetic sleep from which not to be awoke,
except by a Magnetiser, and thus they must die in their sleep then, if the
magnetiser should so will it and leave them to such a fate, when most gene-
rally no mortal but the magnetiser, knows anything of such persons being
magnetised.
the following extracts are from Mr. White, a Wesleyan Missionary,
in the Missionary Herald, and Mr. Hall, a Church Missionary, at New
Zealand, which seem parallel to and exemplifying the above named evils
2
18
of Mesmerism, though without its outward " passes," &c, showing that
death can be produced frequently by such mysterious phenomena.
Mr. White says :
" There is a class of people in New Zealand called
Ereekee, or priests. These men pretend to have intercourse with de-
parted spirits, [familiar spirits, h. j.] by which they are able to kill by
incantation, any person on whom their anger may fall. And it is a fact
that numbers fall a prey to their confidence in the curses of those men, and
pine under the influence of despair, and die."
Mr. Hall, also at New Zealand, represents, that " many of their prison-
ers of war lose their lives by others bewitching or praying evil prayers
against them," as the natives say, though superstitiously, as Mr. Hall
considers.
—
Missionary Herald, 1S27, Vol. 23, pages 122 and 314.
Also, as maintained by magnetizers, they have the power by this agen-
cy, of paralysing or stiffening the bodies and limbs of individuals, and even
without their consent or knowledge, (as would seem from their many al-
leged facts on the subject,) and then to leave them in that evil situation,
indefinitely or as long as they " will," without the fear of detection or
punishment for such deeds. And though it is not for us to decide in how
many cases invalids and cripples, of rigid limbs &c, have been made so,
in part or altogether, by this mysterious power, I will give a real in-
stance of it as I heard it related recently by a " Professor of Mesmerism," in
one of his public lectures in the city of New York. A man, he said, had
been found, (somewhat recently,) in a paralyzed or rigid condition of body,
having remained in that situation, for " six years," from which no relief
could be found among the mtdical faculty, or elsewhere, till a magnetizer
came along, who perfectly and suddenly relieved him, by reversing the will
and motions of Mesmerism upon him, thus demonstrating, that " nothing
ailed the man except a full charge of this magnetism," under which the
patient had suffered so long, without a suspicion of the true cause of the evil.
Another similar, though more remarkable case of this evil, not to be
questioned, and coming more fully to the point before us, is that of a cer-
tain " woman," paralyzed, or " bowed together and could in no wise lift up
herself" whom Christ relieved without the aid of Mesmerism, on " the
Sabbath," when he further explained the magical power or cause of the
woman's " infirmity," or " spirit," which bound her, by replying to his ca-
villing and hypocritical opponents—" And ought not this woman—whom
Satan [yea, Satan himself] hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed,
from this bond on the Sabbath day ?" (Luke 13 : 11, 16.) I am aware
that after all, many do not admit the fact of Satan's having any ability to
do such wonders, or to exert supernatural power upon or within one of the
human race. Yet we have inspired testimony that he had power and
exerted it too ; in smiting " Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot
to his crown," to bring down " fire from heaven," to burn " up " his
" sheep and servants," to smite " the four corners of the house," so that
it fell upon his sons and daughters to slay them all, &c. (Job chap. 1 & 2.)
Satan also had power within a man, in Christ's day, which man then came
" out of the tombs,"—(or cells) with an unclean spirit (or spirit of Satan)
"where he had " his dwelling," because " no man could bind him, no, not
19
with chains, because he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and
the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in
pieces ; neither could any man tame him." Here, certainly was satanic
and wonderful power or strength exerted in this man's thus apparently
breaking such chains himself, as our prisoners do not now, even pretend to
do, when thus chained for the people's safety. This same « unclean
spirit," of Satan, had also the power of speech, while thus within this man,
so that he did actually use the man's voice or lips, in answering for him-
self, when questioned by Christ, in saying—" My name is legion, for we
are many," (or " because many devils were entered into him," Luke 8 : 30.)
This same Satan or unclean spirit could and did, also cry out aloud, say-
ing, " What have I to do with thee, Jesus thou Son of the Most High," &c.
(Mark 5: 2—9.) Then why may not the self-same " unclean spirit"
or " spirit of divination," not to be tormented " before the time," of the
judgment ; now, just as properly and easily speak with the voice or lips
of the mesmerised clairvoyant/to reveal or make known the wonderful
secrets before mentioned ? though the clairvoyant person himself or herself
really has no more to do with the power of such revelations, than the man
from " the tombs " in saying for himself, " My name is legion," &c
And once more, may it not be said, that if, as admitted, this secret and
mighty power can be wielded by the worst of men, and for the worst of
purposes ; then certainly, the thief, the debauchee, the assassin, and even
all kinds of criminals, by the aid of the same power, may accomplish their
most evil designs, altogether in secret, or without the possibility of detec-
tion, most generally. Where then would be the safety of the property,
the lives, or the chastity of the unwary, should bad men generally become
adepts in the practice of Mesmerism ? To nullify the force of this argu-
ment against Mesmerism, we are told that useful medicines, and even
implements of husbandry, have been also used many times, in the murder
of the innocent and unwary. Yet I answer—the two cases are far from
being parallel, as might be taken for granted by an opponent ; because
when useful or visible material instruments or medicines are employedas
instruments of death, there are necessarily and uniformly connected with
such crimes, various outward or visible things which naturally help in
detecting the criminal, such as the arsenic in the stomach of the murdered
person—the fatal implement about the murderer—its marks upon the mur-
dered, &c bv which visible means, such criminals are, in almost all cases,
detected, if detected at all. But it is not at all so, in case of such crimes
perpetrated by the dark and mysterious power of Mesmerism. For here,
the perpetrator is securely left, beyond the reach of public exposure, till
the judgment day, notwithstanding*the trite notion of some, that, " Murder
will ouf;" or will, in all cases, finally be exposed in the present life.
_
And
though, in some cases of crimes committed by this secret and invisible
agency, we might, perhaps, have some suspicions of the criminals ;
the
present laws of our country would punish a man for defamation, should he
presume to publish such suspicion, or make assertions in the case, when as
generally to be expected, no proof allowable in courts of human justice,
could be brought to convict the suspected criminal.
20
While on this point, I beg leave to give a synopsis or review of an
u Expose of Animal Magnetism," in the " Confessions of a Practical
Magnetiser,"—" 293 Broadway, New York, 1845," (52 p. 8vo.)
In this work, the writer exposes some of the evils which Mesmerism
has performed within his own knowledge, in the art of seduction, robbery,
&c, and says—" I cannot here refrain from warning young females, and
even married ladies, not to trust themselves alone with practical magneti-
sers who are comparative strangers to them ; for did 1 feel at liberty to
reveal some startling facts with which I am conversant, the community
would be thoroughly awakened to the danger of permitting the exercise
and employment of this agency." p. 11.
He also states a case of a lady whom he had offended, and after a full
year, could not be persuaded to accede to any terms of penance for recon-
ciliation which he could propose, whom he then made to say to him in a
few minutes, in answer to his inquiry, " I can forgive you, but cannot
forgive myself" &c, which he did, only by magnetising her without her
consent or knowledge, and in willing this change of her mind towards
himself, and without any moving up and down of his hands, p. 11.
He tells of winning the heart of his own wife at the age of seventeen,
by first magnetising her for disease, &c, when brought to him for the
purpose by her father, though otherwise, her superior standing in society,
would have kept her out of his reach, p. 15.
Then he put another young lady to sleep against her obstinate resistance,
and in doing which, he so effectually willed her affections towards himself,
that " she would not spare " him '.'
a moment to leave her, but nestling
by " his "side, seemed happy only there." p. 15.
Next he was called on by a young gentleman to aid him in calling back
the alienated affections of a young lady to whom he had been engaged.
He undertook the difficult task, and perfectly succeeded in doing it by two
short calls upon the young lady, till then a stranger to him. He did it by
magnetising her each time, without her consent or knowledge, then willing
the change of her affections, so that, on awaking the second time, she was
completely reclaimed to the young man, and alienated from her other
suitor, who, without this process, was likely to marry her. p. 17.
Then he tells how, himself previously a married man, and this now-
married young lady, were both well nigh ruined soon after, by their
unlawful attachment to each other, which originated during the above
magnetic process ;
and how he was relieved from that wretched condition,
by his own wife's learning magnetism from his books, &c, and then
drawing his affections back to herself in the same way ; and how the other
young married lady, half ruined by her thus divided affections, was again
won back to her husband by his magnetising her again and willing her
affections back to himself, keeping the whole process still a secret from
her p. 30.
The writer of the above work also discloses his personal knowledge of
" an ingenious robbery at Howard's Hotel, Broadway, New York, some
time in the fall of 1842," in which, he says—A young Frenchman named
Jaques Perrot, first won $100, in a bet of putting a lawyer to sleep by
21
magnetising him, and while thus keeping him asleep, for half an hour,
robbed him of his pocket book, containing $950 in cash, and then hastily-
escaped with the whole to the south, where, in New Orleans, about six
months after, he was apprehended, convicted and sent to State's Prison
for absconding with another man's wife, and taking certain sums of money
from her husband, by his adroitness in Mesmerism, in which case the
writer as above, being there, was a principal witness, by exposing the
said robbery of Perrot in New York, p. 38-46.
He also mentions his personal knowledge of the ruin of a young lady
by the seduction of a magnetiser, under whose care she had placed herself,
as a patient in a nervous complaint, who now " rather mourns over her
misfortune in silence, than thus expose her own shame," p. 47.
IU5
The pamphlet, as above, is anonymous, to be sure ;
and thus it
should be, considering the peculiar nature of the " confessions" or disclo-
sures there made ; and though it has been answered by a public Mag-
netizer,not one fact therein contained, is disproved, as appears to me, in
the answer, which I have read ; nor is the work refuted at all, except by
apparent burlesque, canting epithets, and strong assertions, differing from
other magnetisers in theory, accompanied with insinuations of the evil
character and speculating motives of the author in writing it, though un-
known to his reviewer, except by suspicion.
Though not myself responsible for the correctness of the facts in the
above " Expose,'" nor for the motives of its unknown author in writing it,
I feel anthorized, in saying the least of its merits, to remark, that it cer-
tainly bears the appearance of authenticity, instead of fiction ;
while none
of its alleged facts are at variance with the character and power of Mes-
merism, as I have learnt of it from the sources already mentioned.
In conclusion, I wish it distinctly understood, that though I have differed
so widely in my general views of Mesmerism, from many who have ex-
pressed their thoughts on the subject, and especially from public Magne-
tisers, I neither judge, nor censure, any one for taking opposite views, nor
for their practising Mesmerism, as a supposed public benefit, since, to our
own Master, we must each of us stand or fall for ourselves. Neither
would I exercise any other than kind feelings toward them, unto the end.
I have also designed to state facts and reason fairly in every case, and
must regret any failures in doing it, should they hereafter appear. It is
true, I have given some things as facts, and taken for granted certain
things, which are not admitted by some magnetisers ;
but this I have felt
authorized to do, because others among them, have admitted or maintained
the same things. And thus I leave what I have said, to be disposed of,
according to its merits, without any respect to the " character,' or " mo-
tives," g°ood or bad, of the author in preparing it, since the mere reputation
of myself or others, has been no part of the object in the undertaking.
But should it prove instrumental at all in exciting some individuals more
carefully to " search the Scriptures," on this, and other connected points
so as truly to " Seek first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness" it
will not be in vain that I have thus spoken.
APPENDIX.
As an individual, competent, impartial, and experienced witness of
the phenomena of Mesmerism, 1 would here introduce Mr. Beecher, a
well-known minister of the Presbyterian Church, and son of Dr. Lyman
Beecher, late of Boston. H. J.
" We find the following in Fowler's Phrenological Journal, of August, 1843, from
Rev. Dr. Beecher. " (C. P. Johnson, on Animal Magnetism.)
In October, 1842, on my way to the Synod of Genesee, I spent the night at the house
of Mr. Hai.l, at Byron. In the evening I called on Rev. Mr. Childs. On entering the
room, I found his son, an intelligent boy, aged ten years, then in a cataleptic fit, sit-
ting in his father's arms, and his feet in warm water.
In a few moments he recovered. He frequently had from three to six fits a day. Had
i id the best medical attendance in the region. Was no better ; daily worse. Had
lost entirely the power of speech for several days. Great fears were felt that he would
never recover. There was a sore place on the back corner of his head and on the spine,
occasioned by a fall some months previous. When the fits passed off he became hun-
gry, and not at all drowsy; and during the interval, appeared preternaturally bright, and
engaged in sperts with companions as usual.
After 1 had conversed a few minutes, I said, "I would have him Magnetised;" to
which his father replied, li
I don't believe in it at all," and the mother added, " If
you'll put me to sleep I'll believe, and not without." I replied, " I would try it ; it
may do good, and can do no harm." During this conversation, I made a few passes in
front of the child, chiefly with one hand, and without any particular concentration of
the mind or will, and mostly with my face toward the mother. In less than a minute
the father said, " He is in another fit ! No, he isn't, I declare : I believe he is asleep."
Much surprised, (for I had never Magnetised one,) I said, "It surely can not be what
I have done : but if so I can awaken him ;" then with a few reversed passes he awoke.
" Well, this is strange," said I, " but I can put him to sleep again, if it is real." 1 then
seriously repeated the passes wit.1
! both hands for one or two minutes, and placed him in
the perfect Mesmeric sleep. I then fixed my eyes on a lady on the opposite side of the
room, the boy not yet having spoken for three days, and said, "Henry, what do you
see 1" in a full decided voice. He replied, " Azubah." I then looked his mother in
the face, saying, " What do you see 1" He gave a name unknown to me ; I looked to
his father, who replied, " it is her maiden name." I then took vinegar into my mouth,
and said, " What do you taste V " Vinegar," speaking with great tartness, and at the
same time making many contortions of the face. The moiher now whispered to one of
the children, who left her seat, and I said, "Henry, what is she going for 1" " Sugar,
and I love it. She went to the closet and brought the sugar. I put some into my mouth,
which seemed to give him the same pleasure as if I had put it in his own. I then said,
" What kind of sugar is it?" "Muscovado." " What is its colour 1" " Well sir, a
kind of light brown." A small glass jar with a large cork was now placed in my hand,
when immediately I observed the olfactory nerves affected, and the muscles about the
nose contracted at the same moment. I said to the girl, "What is it 1" to which the
boy answered, " Hartshorn." " How do you know V " I smell it." I myself neither
knew nor smelt. I then took out the cork and applied it to my own nose, when he in-
stantly placed his fingers on that part of the nose next the forehead, and said, " I feel it
here," just where I myself experienced the burning sensation.
23
During all these experiments he sat on his father's knee, with his head down on his
breast, and reclining against his father.
I now asked him, " What is the matter with you !" " My brain is sore." " Where !"
" At the bottom of it." " Where it joins the spinal marrow (medulla oblongata !")
" Yes." " What occasioned it !" I fell from the great beam in the barn." His mo-
ther here asked him, " Why did you not tell us before !" " I feared you would not let
me play there." " Can Doctor A. cure you 1" "No." " Why not !" "He don't
know any thing about it," (very decidedly.) " Can Doctor C. 1" "No." "Why!"
" He don't understand it." " Will the medicine you now use do you good 1" " No."
•• Of what is it composed !" " There is turpentine in it." " Does the Doctor give it
you for tape worm V " Yes." " Have you any !" " No." " Would you like
to walk!" "Yes." "Well, walk." He arose promptly, stepped between the
chairs, and said, "Well, sir, where shall I go !" "From the wall to the door and
back." This he did, avoiding every obstruction, and at my direction returned and sat
again with his father. I now without notice to any one, placed my fingers on the organ
of Benevolence, thinking at the moment it performed the office of Veneration, and said,
" Would you like to pray V With some lightness he said, no. Some questions were
asked by his mother and myself, about the Bible, &c, but no Veneration appeared. I
then recollected the true office of the organ, and said, "Have you any thing in your
pocket 1" He took out a knife. " Give it to me for my little boy," which he did
promptly. I removed my hand. "Have you anything else!" "I have a pencil."
" Will you give me that for my other boy 1" " It has no head." " Never mind, give
it, won't you!" " I shouldn't like to." "Well, but you will!" "I couldn't come
it !" {loith peculiar emphasis.) Aztjbah said, ask him where the head of the pencil is.
" Where is it, Henry !" " Well, sir, in the parlor." " Where !" " On the window."
Azubah: "Why, I picked it up and put it there to-day !" {He certainly did not know
this.) I then said, "Henry, can you get it!" He arose, and went into the parlor in
the dark, and took the pencil-case head from the window, to the very great surprise of
us all. Indeed, we were all so astonished, that it seemed a dream during these and
subsequent proceedings. He spoke with a promptness, boldness, and propriety, in ad-
vance of his years, and beyond himself in his natural state ; and so perfectly evident was
it that he was in a somnambulic state, that no sceptic, I verily believe, could have
doubted.
At my request he returned to his seat. I touched Benevolence, and instantly he
handed me the pencil-case. " For my boy !" " Yes, sir." I then silently, and with-
out any willing, and with a feeling of curiosity to see and test the matter, touched Re-
verence. His countenance at once assumed a softened and solemn aspect. " Henry,
would you like to pray !" " Yes, sir." " You may." He then commenced praying
inaudibly. "You may pray aloud." He then prayed in a low, audible voice. On
touching Tune, he sang a tune, though not in the habit of singing. On touching Com-
bativeness and Destmctivess, he raised his clenched fist to strike me. He was igno-
rant of Phrenology, and also of my intention to touch any particular organ ; nor did I in
any case will the activity of the organ. I now took out my watch, and holding the dial
toward myself, and above the line of his vision, his eyes being closed, and his head
bowed forward, and my hand also being between him and the watch. "Henry, what
time is it !" " Eight o'clock, sir," which was exactly the time by the watch, though
by the clock in the room it was fifteen minutes faster. " Henry, how long ought you
to sieep!" " Well, sir, I must sleep two hours and five minutes." "Will you then
awake !" " Yes, sir." " Very well." This I did for the purpose of testing his know-
ledge of time, as 3tated by Townshend, an English clergyman, whose work on this sub-
ject I had read.
I then said, " Will you go with me to Mr. Hall's !" "Yes." " Well, now we are
there; we are in the parlor : who is here !" "Mr. and Mrs. Hall; Mr. and Mrs.
Bardwell." " Who else !" He did not give their names, but intimated that they
were strangers. He described the room and position of things, all of which I found
correct on going to the house shortly after. These persons were not in the habit of be-
ing there in the°evening, but company having come in, they were all together at that
moment. A8 this was in his own town, I did not deem it proof, and so said, "Will
you go to Batavia !" " Yes." " Well, now we are there, now we are at my house-
now we will go into my room : what do you see !" " I see a large table covered with
24
black cloth, and with books and papers scattered over it." " How large ia it V " It
>.s about five feet long." " How many book cases 1" " Three, sir." " What sort of
a stove I" lie could not or did not describe this, for it was so queer a thing as not to
be easily described. Nor did 1 press him, for all his answers had been perfectly cor-
rect, and I was sufficiently astonished, for he had never seen my study, and no other
minister, I am sure, has such a table, (5 feet by 3J,) or left in such confusion as mine
was at that moment.
I may here say, that during the whole period of his sleep, he could hear the questions
of others put to him, and would answer them, if I were willing ; but if I willed other-
wise, or forbade him to speak, as I often did, he then would answer no one but myself,
not even father or motherj nor could he hear their conversation with me, nor with each
other.
I now left him for an hour, and went back to Mr. Hall's, giving him leave to con-
verse only with his father. On my return, I found him in the same state. He utterly
refused to ?peak to any one but his father, and told him that he should not have another
fit till the following Sabbath, (this was Monday evening,) which proved true ; but when
that day came he had several.
At nine o'clock and three minutes, holding my watch as before, and standing eight or
nine feet from him, I asked the time. He gave nine o'clock and five minutes. " Look
sharp," said I. " Oh ! three minutes," said he. We were now curious to see if he
would awake himself at the two hours and five minutes : and as the clock in the room
reached that time he did not awake, I said, " Hexry, did you mean by my watch, or
by the clock l" "By your watch, sir." " Very well." At the exact moment he open-
ed his eyes and looked around, and this without any act or willing of mine ; and what
was very affecting and convincing, he could no longer speak at all, and was unconscious
of all that he had said or done.
I have said that he had no return of fits till the following Sabbath. One day after
that Sabbath, he came in to his mother much agitated, and apparently going into a fit,
and making the passes, he solicited his mother to do it, who merely to pacify him, pass-
ed her fingers over him, and soon he fell into the Mesmeric sleep, and escaped the tit.
After this he was so highly charged by his sister, that when she was in the next room
in the closet, he would instantly taste any thing' she tasted, eat what she ate, &c.
In ten days I returned and Magnetised hiin again, and went through several of the
above experiments. He always, while in the Mesmeric state, declared that it benefited
him, relieved all pain, and would cure him.
After I left, at my suggestion, he was daily Magnetised : his fits left him, his voice
returned, the sore spots on his head and back were removed, and he recovered rapidly,
till the family could no longer Magnetise him. A man in the village was found, who
could and daily did, till he appeared entirely well. On omitting it he had a fit or two,
and it was resumed ; and when I last saw the father, he informed me that they consid-
ered the child cured.
I may add, I have since cured tooth ache, greatly relieved tic doloreux, and removed
other pains and swellings, as well as head ache. I am not, however, a full believer in
all which is affirmed of Clairvoyants—what I see and know I believe. In respect to many
well authenticated facts, I neither affirm nor deny. That there are many cases of gross
deception and imposition, I fully believe. On such a subject, it can hardly be otherwise.
This, however, is a reason why men of character and intelligence should investigate it,
rather than otherwise. " But, it is deception !" Well, then, let us expose it by a fair
trial. " But, it is the work of the devil !" How do you know 1 What is the evidence f
What harm has it done 1 " Oh, bad men have used it for bad ends !" And what is
there in the world that has not been so used 1 If it is the work of the devil, then we
are not to be ignorant of his devices, and should make the examination for one's self,
for ignorant and bad men will not expose his devices. From experiment and observa-
tion, I have no doubt, that as a remedial agent, Mesmerism is yet to accomplish much
good ; and no harm can result from it except, like all other blessings, it be abused.
Wm. H. Beechee.
Boston, June 28, 1843.
THE END.
DC?
3
Correspondence touching this Pamphlet.
Dr. Wing, Secr'y of the Zoist's Association of New York.
Dear Sir,—Having attended one of the weekly meetings of your
Association, and learnt its object to be the investigation of Mesmerism,
by examining the arguments for and against its merits, thus to give
the public more advantage of it as a remedy for diseases, if found wor-
thy ;
and having myself just issued a Treatise repudiating its Clair-
voyant Phenomena as " Sorcery, not a Science," I cannot but feel a
deep interest in such an investigation. Having understood, also, that
my Treatise as above, has already been laid before your body for refu-
tation, and.
,:
used up," or something like it, while a3 yet, I have had
no opportunity to know the ground there taken, I would now solicit a
synopsis of the arguments then brought against my position, for
review and publication, if agreeable to yourself or Association.
This course, if I mistake not, will very directly forward the whole
object we can reasonably all have in view, in thus more fully laying
before the public, the true character and claims of Mesmerism, that
they may examine for themselves, all sides of this important question,
and then decide accordingly ;
provided the whole discussion be con-
ducted on sound principles, and only in the spirit of Christian kind-
ness and courtesy, as I would here propose.
Please direct to my address before the second edition of my work
as above, shall be issued,* or as soon as practicable, and believe me;
Very sincerely and respectfully,
Yours, for Christ's sake,
120 Eighth Avenue, ) Henry Jones.
New York Dec. 15, 1S45. \
New York, Dec. 16, 1845.
Dear Sir,—I received yours of yesterday, last evening. Your Trea-
tise was orally discussed last Tuesday evening before the Association,
and will be further reviewed this evening. Your attendance is respect-
fully solicited, and an opportunity of being heard before the Associa-
tion will undoubtedly be granted.
Yours, respectfully.. Austin Wing.
Rev. H. Jones, 120 Eighth Avenue.
Dr. Wing—Dear Sir : Having nothing further to communicate to
your Association, while my published thoughts remain before them
still unanswered, so far as myself and the public are concerned, I seem
to have no occasion for taking a part in their more private oral discus-
sions, as you proposed in yours of yesterday. And since their sup-
posed object in organizing, was to give the public the fairest view of
the aremments^/wr and against Animil Magnetism, I see no real cause
for your omitting to furnish me something like the synopsis solicited in
my former communication; though I acquiesce in letting the matter
remain now, as it is. Yours, truly,
Henry Jones.
New York, Dec. 17, 1845;
* If your reply shall be received within a week, it may be noticed on the cover.
