{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1846__poe___mesmerism_in_articulo_mortis.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmerism In Articulo Mortis","mylang":"de"}
MESMEKISM
“IN ARTICULO MORTIS.”
. AN
■ ' . ;'
ASTOUNDING & HORRIFYING NARRATIVE,
SHEWING THE EXTRAORDINARY POWER OF MESMERISM
ÎN ARRESTING THE
ra©<MlE§§ ©IF [DEATH.
By E D G A R A. POE, Esq,
OF NEW TONIC, .......
L O N D O N :
SHOUT & Co., 8, KING STREET, BLOOMSBURY.
1846.
Price Threepence.']
A D V E R T I S E M E N T -
T h e following astonishing narrative first appeared
in the American Magazine, a work of some standing
in the United States, where the case has excited the
most intense interest.
The effects of the mesmeric influence, in this case,
were so astounding, so contrary to all past ex­
perience, that no one could have possibly anticipated
the final result. The narrative, though only a plain
recital of facts, is of so •extraordinary a nature as
almost to surpass belief. It is only necessary to
add, that credence is given to it in America, where
the occurrence took place.
MESMERISM.
Os’ course, I shall not pretend to consider it any
matter for wonder that the extraordinary case of
M. V axdem ar has excited discussion. It would have
been a miracle had it not, especially under the circum­
stances. Through the desire of all parties concerned,
to keep the affair from the public, at least for the
present, or until we had further opportunities for
investigation—through our endeavours to effect this, à
garbled or exaggerated account made its way into
society, and became the source of many unpleasant
misrepresentations, and, very naturally, of a great
deal of disbelief. f
It is now rendered necessary that I give the facts,
as far as I comprehend them myself. They are
succinctly these :—
My attention, for the last three years, had been
repeatedly drawn to the subject of mesmerism; and
about nine months ago it occurred to me, quite sud­
denly, that in the series of experiments made hitherto,
there had been a very remarkable and most unac­
countable omission; no person had been mesmerised in
articulo mortis. It remained to be seen;—first, whether
in such condition, there existed in the patient any sus­
ceptibility to the magnetic influence; — secondly,
whether, if any existed, it was impaired or increased
by the condition ;—thirdly, to what extent, or for
4
how long a period, the encroachments of death might
be arrested by the process. There were other points
to be ascertained, but these most excited my curi­
osity ; the last in especial, from the immensely im­
portant character of its consequences.
In looking around me for some subject by whose
means I might test these particulars, I was brought
to think of my friend, M. Ernest Yaldemar, the well-
known compiler of the Bibliotheca Forensica, and
author (under the nom de plume of “ Isachar Marx”)
of the Polish version of Wallenstein, and Gargantua.
M. Yaldemar, who has resided principally at Haarlem,
New York, since the year 1839, is (or was) particu­
larly noticeable for the extreme spareness of his
person, his lower limbs much resembling those of John
Randolph; and also for the whiteness ofhis whiskers, in
violent contrast to the blackness of his hair; the
latter, in consequence, being very generally taken for
a wig. His temperament was markedly nervous, and
rendered him a good subject for mesmeric experiment.
On two or three occasions lhad put him to sleep with
little difficulty, but was disappointed in other results
which his peculiar constitution had naturally led me
to anticipate. His will was at no period positively or
thoroughly under my control; and in regard to clair­
voyance, I could accomplish with him nothing to be
relied upon. I always attributed my failure at those
points to the disordered state of his health. For some
months previous to my becoming acquainted with
him, his physicians had declared him to be in a
confirmed phthisis. It was his custom, indeed, to
5
speak calmly of his approaching dissolution, as of. a
matter neither to be avoided nor regretted.
When the ideas to which I have alluded first oc­
curred to me, it was of course very natural that I
should think of JV
1. Valdemar. I knew the steady
philosophy of the man too well to apprehend any
scruples from him; he had no relatives in America
who would be likely to interfere. I spoke to him
frankly upon the subject, and, to my surprise, his
interest seemed vividly excited. I say, to my surprise
—for although he had always yielded his person
freely to my experiments, he had never before given
me any tokens of. sympathy with what I did. His
disease was of that character which would admit of
exact calculation in respect to the epoch of its ter­
mination in death; and it was finally, arranged be­
tween us that he would send for me some twenty-four
hours before the time announced by his physician as
that of his decease.
It is now rather more than seven months since I
received, from M. Yaldemar himself, the subjoined
note:— .
“ Mr dear Poe,
“ Yoa may as well come now. D—
— and F------ are
agreed that I cannot hold out beyond to-morrow midnight; and I
think they have hit the time very nearly. '
“ Valdemar.”
I received this-note within half-an-hour after it was
written, and in fifteen minutes more I was in the
dying man’s chamber. I had not seen him for ten
days, and was appalled by the fearful alteration which
6
this brief interval had wrought in him. His face
wore a leaden hue: the eyes were utterly lustreless;
and the emaciation was so extreme, that the skin had
been broken through by the cheek-bones. His ex­
pectoration was excessive. The pulse was barely
perceptible. He retained, nevertheless, in a very-
remarkable manner, both his mental power, and a
certain degree of physical strength. He spoke with
distinctness—took some purgative medicines, without
aid-—and, when I entered the room, was occupied in
pencilling memoranda in a pocket-book. He was
propped up in the bed by pillows. Drs. D------and
F------ were in attendance. ■
After pressing Valdemar’s hand, I took these gen­
tlemen aside, and obtained from them a minute account
of the patient’s condition. The left lung had been for
eighteen months in a semi-osseous or cartilaginous
state, and was of course entirely useless for all purposes
of vitality. The right, in its upper portion, was also
partially, if not thoroughly, ossified, while the lower
region was merely a mass of purulent tubercles
running one into another. Several extensive perfora­
tions existed, and at one point, permanent adhesion
to the ribs had taken place. These appearances in the
right lobe were of comparatively recent date. The
ossification had proceeded with very unusual rapidity;
no sign of it had been discovered a month before, and
the adhesion had only been observed during the three
previous days. Independently of the phthisis, the
patient was suspected of aneurism of the aorta; but,
on this point, the osseous symptoms rendered an exact
7
diagnosis impossible. It was the opinion of both
physicians that M. Valdemar would die about midnight
on the morrow (Sunday). It was then seven o’clock
on Saturday evening.
On quitting the invalid’s bed-side to hold a conver­
sation with myself, Doctors D— —and F—— - had
bidden him a final farewell. It had not been theirs*
intention to return; but, at my request, they" agreed
to look in. upon the patient about ten the next night.
When they had gone, I spoke freely with M.
Valdemar on the subject of his approaching dissolu­
tion, as well as, more particularly, of the experiment
proposed. He still professed himselfquite willing and
even anxious to have it made, and urged me to com­
mence at once. A male and female nurse were in
attendance; but I did not feel myself altogether at
liberty to engage in a task of this character with no
more reliable witnesses than these people, in case of
sudden accident, might prove. I therefore postponed
operations, until about eight the next night, when the
arrival of a medical student, with whom I had some
acquaintance (Mr.Theodore L——1), relieved me from
further embarrassment. It had been my design,
originally, to wait for the physicians; but I was in­
duced to proceed, first, by the urgent entreaties of M.
Valdemar, and, secondly, by my conviction that I had
not a moment to lose, as he was evidently sinking
fast.
Mr. L------ 1 was so kind as to accede to my desire
that he would take notes of all that occurred; and. it is
8
from his memoranda that what I have now to relate
is, for the most part, either condensed or copied
verbatim. . ...
It wanted about five minutes of eight,when, taking
the patient’s hand, I begged him to state as distinctly
as he could to Mr. L------1, whether he (M. Yaldemar)
was entirely willing that I should make thn experi­
ment of mesmerising him in his then condition.
He replied feebly, yet quite audibly, Hyes, I wish to
be mesmerised”—adding immediately afterwards, “ I
fear you have deferred it too long.”
"While he spoke thus, I communicated the passes
which I had already found most effectual in subduing
him. He was evidently influenced with the first lateral
stroke of my hand across his forehead; but, although
I exerted all my powers, no further perceptible effect
was induced until some minutes after ten o’clock,
when Drs. D------ and F-—— called, according to ap­
pointment. I explained to them, in a few words,
xwhat I designed; and as they opposed no objection,
saying that the patient was already in' the death agony,
I proceeded without hesitation, exchanging, however,
the lateral passes for downward ones, and directing my
gaze entirely into the right eye of the sufferer. • •
By this time his pulse was imperceptible, and his
breathing was stertorous, and at intervals of half a
minute. '
This condition was nearly unaltered for a quarter
of an hour. At the expiration of this period, however,
a natural, although very deep sigh, escaped the bosom
of the dying man, and the stertorous breathing
.ceased—that is to say, its stertorousness was no longer
apparent; the intervals were undiminished. - The
patient’s extremities were of an icy coldness.
At five minutes before eleven I perceived unequivo­
cal signs of the mesmeric influence. The glassy roll
of the eye was exchanged for that expression of uneasy
inward examination which is never seen except in
cases of sleep-waking, and which it is quite impossible
to mistake. With a few rapid lateral passes I made the
lips quiver, as in incipient sleep, and with a few more
I closed them altogether. I was not satisfied, however,
with this, but continued the manipulations vigorously,
and with the fullest exertion of the will, until I had
completely stiffened the limbs of the slumberer, after
placing them in a seemingly easy position. The legs
were at full length, the arms were nearly so, and
reposed upon the bed at a moderate distance from the
loins. The head was very slightly elevated. -
When I had accomplished this it was fully midnight,
and I requested the gentlemen present to examine M.
Yaldemar’s condition. After a very few experiments
they admitted him to be in an unusually perfect state
of mesmeric trance.—The curiosity of both the phy­
sicians was greatly excited. Dr. D—— resolved at
once to remain with the patient all night, while Dr.
F------ took leave, with a promise to return at day­
break. Mr. L------ 1 and the nurses remained. -
We left -M. Yaldemar entirely undisturbed until
about three o’clock in the morning, when I approached
him and found him in precisely the same condition as
when Dr. F------ went away—that is to say, he lay in
9
io
the same position ; the pulse was imperceptible, the
breathing was gentle, scarcely noticeable, unless
through the application of a mirror to the lips: the
eyes were closed naturally; and the limbs were as
rigid and as cold as marble. Still the general appear­
ance was certainly not that of death.
As I approached M. Yaldemar, I made a kind of
effort to influence his right arm into pursuit of my
own, as I passed the latter gently to and frò above his
person. In such experiments, with this patient, I
had never perfectly succeeded before, and assuredly I
had little thought of succeeding now—but, to my
astonishment, his arm very readily, although feebly,
followed every direction I assigned it with mine. I
determined to hazard a few words of conversation.
“ M. Yaldemar,” I said, “ are you asleep?”
He made no answer, but I perceived a tremor
about the lips, and was thus induced to repeat the
question, again and again. At this third repetition,
his whole frame was agitated by a very slight shiver­
ing; the eyelids unclosed themselves so far as to
displaya white line of the ball; the lips moved slug­
gishly, and from between them, in a barely audible
whisper, issued the word:—
“ Yes; asleep now. Do not wake’me !—let me die
so!” .
I here felt the limbs and found them as rigid às
ever. The right arm, as before, obeyed thè direction
of m y”right hand. I questioned the sleep-waker
again.
“ Do you still feel pain in the breast, M. Yal-
demar?”
The answer now was immediate, but even less
audible than before.
“ No pain—I am dying.” -
I did not think it advisable to disturb him further
just then, and nothing more was said or done until the
arrival of Dr. F—-—, who came a little before sunrise,
and expressed unbounded astonishment at finding the
patient still alive. After feeling the pulse, and apply­
ing a mirror to the lips, he requested me to speak with
the sleep-waker again. I did so, saying:
“ M. Yaldemar, do you still sleep?”
As before, some minutes elapsed ere a reply was
made, and during the interval the dying man seemed
to be collecting his energies to speak. At my fourth
repetition of the question, he said, very faintly, almost
inaudibly:— “ Yes, still asleep—dying.”
It was now the opinion—or rather the wish—of
the physicians, that M. Valdemar should be suffered
to remain undisturbed in his present apparently
tranquil condition until death should intervene—and
this, it was generally agreed, must now take place
within a few minutes. I concluded, however,
to speak to him once more, and merely repeated my
previous question.
While I spoke, there came a marked change over
the sleep-waker. The eyes rolled themselves slowly
open, the pupils disappearing upwardly: the skin
generally assumed a cadaverous hue, resembling not
so much parchment as white paper; and the circular
11
12
hectic, spots, which hitherto had been strongly defined
in the centre of each cheek, went out at once. I use
this expression, because the suddenness of their de­
parture put me in mind of nothing so much as the
extinguishing of a candle by a puff of the breath.
The upper lip, at the same time, writhed itself away
from the teeth, which had previously been covered
completely ; while the lower jaw fell with an audible
jerk, leaving the mouth widely extended, and dis­
closing to full view the swollen and blackened tongue.
I presume that no member-then present had been
unaccustomed to death-bed horrors-—but so hideous,
beyond all conception, was the appearance of M. Val-
demar at this moment, that there was a general
shrinking back from the region of the bed.
I now feel that I have reached a point of this
narrative, at which every reader will be startled into
positive disbelief. It is my business, however, to
There was no longer the faintest sign of vitality in
M. Valdemar; and concluding him to be dead, we
were consigning him to the charge of the nurses,
when a strong vibratory motion was observable, in
the tongue. This continued for perhaps a minute. At
the expiration of this period, there issued from the
distended and motionless jaw a voice, such as it would
be madness in me to attempt describing. There are,
indeed, two or three epithets which might be con­
sidered as applicable to it in part. I might say, for
example, that the sound was harsh, broken, and
hollow—but the hideous whole is indescribable, for
13
the simple reason that no similar sounds have ever
jarred upon the ear of humanity.; There were txvo
particulars, nevertheless, which I thought then, and
still think, might fairly be stated as characteristics of
the intonation, as well adapted to convey some faint
idea of its unearthly peculiarity. In the first placed
the voice seemed to reach our ears—at least, mine—
from a vast distance, or from some deep cavern within
the earth. In the second place,it impressed me—(I fear,
indeed, it will be impossible to make myself compre­
hended)—-as gelatinous or glutinous matters impress
the sense of touch. ' x
I have spoken both of “ sound” and of “ voice.”
I mean to say that the sound was one of distinct—of
even wonderfully, thriUingly distinct—syllabification.
M. Valdemar spoke—obviously in reply to the question
I had propounded to him a few minutes before. I had
asked him, it will be remembered, if he still slept? He
now said, “ Yes—no: I have been sleeping—and now
—now—I am dead!”
No person present even affected to deny or at­
tempted to repress, the unutterable, shuddering horror
which these few words, thus uttered, were so well cal­
culated to convey. Mr; L— 1(the student) swooned.
The nurses immediately left the chamber, and could
not be induced to return. My own impressions I
would not pretend to render intelligible to the reader.
For nearly an hour we busied ourselves silently—
without the utterance of a word—in endeavours to
revive Mr. L------1. When he came to himself, we
addressed ourselves again to an investigation of M.
Yaldemar’s condition.
14
. It remained in all respects as I have last described
it, with the exception that the mirror no longer
afforded evidence of respiration. An attempt to
draw blood from the arm failed. I should mention,
too, that this limb was no further subject tom y will.
I endeavoured in vain to make it follow the direction
of my hand.
The only real indication indeed of the mesmeric
influence, was now found in the vibratory movement
of the tongue, whenever I addressed myself to M.
Valdemar a question. He seemed to be making an
effort at reply but had no longer the power of sufficient
volition. To queries put to him by any other person
than myself he seemed utterly insensible, although I
endeavoured to place each member of the company
in mesmeric rapport with him. I believe that I have
now related all that is necessary to the understanding
of the sleep*waker’s state of this epoch. Other nurses
were procured, and at ten o’clock I left the house in
company with the two physicians and Mr. L— —1.
In the afternoon we called again to see the patient.
His condition remained precisely the same. We had
now some discussion as to the propriety and feasibility
of awakening him; but we had little difficulty in
agreeing that no good purpose would be served by
so doing. It was evident that, so far, death (or what
is usually termed death) had been arrested by the
mesmeric process. It seemed clear to us all that to
awaken M. Valdemar would be merely to insure his
instant, or at least his speedy, dissolution’
. . ■
From this period, until the close of last week—an in­
terval of nearly seven months—we continued to make
daily calls at M. Valdemar’s house, accompanied, now
and then, by medical and other friends. All this time
the sleep-waker remained exactly as I have last de­
scribed him. The nurses’ attention was continual.
It was on Friday last that we finally resolved to
make the experiment of awakening, or attempting to
awaken him; and it is the (perhaps) unfortunate result
of this latter experiment which has given rise to so
much discussion in private circles—to so much of
what I cannot help thinking unwarranted popular
feeling.
For the purpose of relieving M. Valdemar from the
mesmeric trance, I made use of the customary passes:
these, for a time, were unsuccessful. The first indi­
cation of revival was afforded by a partial descent of
the iris. It is observed, as specially remarkable, that
this lowering of the pupil was accompanied by the
profuse outflowing of a yellowish ichor (from beneath
the lids) of a pungent and highly-offensive odour.
It was suggested that I should attempt to influence
the patient’s arm, as heretofore. I made the attempt,
and failed, Dr. F. then intimated a desire to have
me put a question. I did so, as follows:—
“ M. Valdemar, can you explain to us what are
your feelings or wishes now?’
There was an instant return of the hectic circles on
the cheeks; the tongue quivered, or, rather, rolled
violently in the mouth (although the jaws and lips
remained rigid as before), and at length t)ie same
hideous voice, which I have already described, broke
forth:—
15
16
“ For God’s sake!—quick!—quick! Put me to
sleep—or quick!—wake m e!—quick! I say to you
that I am dead!” ,
I was thoroughly unnerved, and for an instant re­
mained undecided what to do. At first I made an
endeavour to recompose the patient; but failing in
this, through total abeyance of the will, I retraced
my steps, and as earnestly struggled to awaken him.
In this attempt I soon saw I should be successful—or,'
at least, I soon fancied that my success would be
complete; and I am sure that all in the room were
prepared to see the patient awaken.
For what really occurred, however, it is quite ini-
possible that any human being could have been
prepared.
As I rapidly made the mesmeric passes, amid
ejaculations of “ Dead! dead!” absolutely bursting
from the tongue, and not from the lips of the sufferer,
his whole frame at once—within the space of a single
minute, or even less—shrunk—crumbled—absolutely
rotted away—beneath my hands. Upon the bed,
before the whole company, there lay a nearly liquid
mass of loathsome, of detestable, putrescence.
PRINTED BY A. MUNRO, 6, NEW TURNSTILE, LINCOLN’S-JNN-FIELt>S*
9 5 0 -
^ /S /5V CC ttt
