{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V9 1893-4","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v9_1893-4.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V9 1893-4","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
VOLUME IX.
(CONTAINING PARTS XXIV—XXV.)
1893—4.
The responsibility for both the facts and the reruso-nings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
, London :
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER
CHARING CROSS HOJ
1894.
PROCEEDINGS OP THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME IX.
1894.
A.
A., Miss, Automatic Experiences of 73-92, 117
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research, List of Members 394
Anaesthesia, Partial, Prof. W. Ramsay's Observations on Mental Pheno
mena under 236
Anonymously contributed Cases 112, 118, 168, 171, 174
Automatic Writing, Instances of 21, 43-127, 185, 226, 255, 256, 334
„ ,, Telepathic ... 44,48, 52-70
Automatism, Motor, F. W. H. Myers on 26
B.
B. , Mr., Evidence in the case of Miss A. 84
Badger, Rev. C, Case contributed by 32
Bastian, Prof., F.R.S., on Hysterical or Functional Paralysis 201
Berillon, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 38
Bemadette, the Seeress of Lourdes, Apparition of the Virgin to ... 170-182
Besant's, Mrs., Defence of the Theosophists, R. Hodgson's Reply to ... 129
Blavatsky, Madame, Theosophical Defence of, R. Hodgson's Reply to ... 129
Boissarie, Dr., Evidence as to the " Miracles " at Lourdes 176-181, 190, 195, 205
Bracaloni, Dr., Case recorded by 230
ii Index to Vol. IX.
Breuer, Dr. J., and Dr. S. Freud, on the Psychical Mechanism of
Hysterical Phenomena 12-15
Brofferio, Prof. A., " Per lo Spiritismo," Review of 216
Brooke, Lady, Evidence in the case of Miss A. SO
Browne, Hugh Junor, Case contributed by 124, 127
Buchanan, Charles, Case recorded by 191
Buckley, Dr. J. M., Case recorded by 170
Buttemer, R. H., Case contributed by 61
C.
Charcot, Prof., Case recorded by 201
Clarke, Rev. Father, S.J., on the " Miracles " at Lourdes 161
Collingwood, J. F. , Evidence as to the Mediumship of Mr. Stainton Moses 339
Collins, Helen S. , ,, ,, „ ,, 338
Crookes, Mrs., Evidence as to Mediumship of D. D. Home 310
„ \V., F.R.S., „ „ „ „ 308
D.
DAVY, Sir Humphrey, Case recorded by ... 242
Dordogne, Apparitions of the Virgin in, M. L6on Marillier on 177
Dozous, Dr., on the " Miracles" at Lourdes 179, 180
E.
Eddy, Mrs. M. B. (1., on Mind-Healing 167
Eglinton, W., Alleged Mediumship of 358-361
Elliotson, Dr. , Case recorded by 202
Ermacora, Dr. G. B. , Case contributed by ... ... ... 68
Eve, H. W., Note on Mr. W. Stainton Moses... 251
F.
Faith-Cure, Mind-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes, A. T. Myers, M. D. ,
and F. W. H. Myers on 160
Freud, Dr. S., and Dr. J. Breuer, on the Psychical Mechanism of
Hysterical Phenomena 12-15
G.
GlACCHI, Dr. Oscar, Cases recorded by 230
Gibert, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 196
Index to Vol. IX. in
Gibotteau, Dr., On some Experiments in Influencing at a Distance ...'28-31
Green, H. T., Experiments in Automatic Writing of 61, 62
Guiccianli, Signora, Case recorded by 228
Gurney, Edmund, Memorial Library Catalogue 370
H.
H. , Prok. , Case contributed by 67
Hadselle, Mrs., Cases contributed by 33, 35
Hartmann, Dr., Evidence on Theosophical Phenomena 134, 135, 138, 140, 142-14.5
Helot, Dr. C, on the Miracles of Lourdes 199
Hempstead, A. E., Case contributed by 122
Hodgson, K., LL.D., on the Defence of the Theosophists 129
,, ,, Reply to Mrs. Besant 129-150
,, ,, ,, A. P. Sinnett 150-159
,, ,, Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers ... 354
Home, D. D., Evidence for the Mediumship of 197, 295, 306-311
Howard, Lady Mabel, Case contributed by 44
Hudson, Thomson Jay, the "Law of Psychic Phenomena,'' Review of ... 230
Hypnotism 12-14, 29-31, 38, 202, 211, 216
,, Action at a Distance 29,31,216
„ Curative Effects of 202
,, Hysteria and 12-14
,, Dr. Moll's Experiments on Rapport in 211
Hysteria, F. \V. H. Myers on the Mechanism of 3
I.
INdiAN Magic anil the Testimony of Conjurers, R. Hodgson on 345
J.
James, Prof., on Trance Utterances
Janet, Dr. Pierre, On the Psychology of Hysteria
Johnson, Dr. W. G. , Note on Mr. W. Stainton Moses
Judge, W. (\. , Evidence on Theosophical Phenomena
K.
Ktfr.LAR, H. W., on "Indian Magic," R. Hodgson's Criticism of 354
,, ,, ,, "Slate-Writing" Phenomena with W. Eglinton 358-361
Kirby, Mrs., Case contributed by 48
Kirk, Robert, " The Secret Commonwealth of Elves, Fauns, and Fairies,"
with an Introduction by Andrew Lang, Review of 367
... 42
16-24
... 251
130-145
iv Index to Vol. IX.
L.
Lang, Andrew, "Comparative Psychical Research," by, Review of .. 367
,, ,, Kirk's "Secret Commonwealth," with an Introduction
by, Review of 367
Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., Renews by—
" Per lo Spiritismo," by Prof. Brofferio 216
" Psychologic der Suggestion," by Dr. Schmidkanz 214
" Rapport in der Hypnose," by Dr. A. Moll ... 21 1
Levander, F. W., Note on Mr. W. Stainton Moses 2.V2
Lewis, S. , Case contributed by 64
Library, Edmund Gurney Memorial, Catalogue 370
Long, G. S., Case contributed by 65
Lourdes, The Miracles of, A. T. Myers M.D., and F. W. H. Myers, on ... 160
„ ,, Alleged Cures 181, 190, 192, 193, 195, 196, 198-205
M.
Magontier, Marie, the Seeress of Dordogne 178
Marillier, M. Leon, on the ApparitioDs of the Virgin in Dordogne 177, 178
Meetings of the Society, Ordinary 1 , 235
Members, Associates, and Honorary Members, List of 371
,, American Branch, List of ... 394
Milan Experiments with Eusapia Palladino 218
Mind-Cure, Faith-Core, and the Miracles of Lourdes, A. T. Myers, M.D.,
and F. W. H. Myers on 160
„ Instances of 168,171,174,175,182,191
Works on 160
Moll, Dr. A., " Rapport in der Hypnose," Review of 211
Moses, W. Stainton, Experiences of, F. W. H. Myers on 245
„ ,, Personal Record of 259-264, 266-332
,, ,, ,, Physical Phenomena (Miscellaneous) ... 259-333
,, Analysis of Evidence ... 333-352
„ Direct Writing 265,275,284-286,
294, 303, 304, 322, 324-327, 347, 348
,, Levitations 261-263, 288, 289, 299, 302
,, . , ., ,, Lights, Materialisations, Music,
Scents, &c. 269-283, 286, 290, 293,
296, 297, 299, 302, 304, 305, 31 1 -333,
338, 339, 342, 343, 345, 346, 348, 349
,, ,, ., ,, Passage of Matter through Matter
267, 268, 287, 293, 297-299, 301-
306, 311, 313-315, 331, 332, 338, 347
Sketch of Life and Character 245-252
Index to Vol. IX. V
Myers, A. T., M.D..F. R.C.P. (andF.W.H. Myers), on Mind-Cure, Faith-
Cure, and the Miracles of Lonrdes 160
Myers, F. W. H. (and A. T. Myers, M.D.), Mind-cure, Faith-cure, and
the Miracles of Lourdes 160
,, ,, Moses, W. Stainton, Experiences of 245
,, „ Subliminal Consciousness, The 3
,, ,, ,, Mechanism of Hysteria 3
,, ,, ,, Motor Automatism ... 26
O.
O., Mr., Case contributed by 118
P- <
Palladino, Eusapia, Milan Experiments with 218
Percival, F. W., Evidence as to the Mediumship of Mr. Stainton Moses 272, 343
Personality, Problems of—See Subliminal Consciousness.
Physical Phenomena, Alleged Movements of Objects, &c., without con
tact, &e 217, 218-225, 252-352, 359-362
,, ,, "Direct Writing" 265, 275, 284-286, 294, 303, 304,
322, 324-327, 347, 348, 359-362
,, „ Fire Experiments of D. D. Home 307-309
,, ,, Levitatipns and Alterations of Medium's Weight
220, 221, 222, 261-263, 288, 289, 299, 302
,, ,, Lights, " Materialisation," Music, Scents, &c. 218,
222, 223, 269-283, 286, 290, 293, 296, 297, 299, 302,
304, 305, 311-333, 338, 339, 342, 343, 345,'346, 34S, 349
,, „ Passage of Matter through Matter, Alleged 267,
268, 287, 293, 297-299, 301-306, 311, 313-315,
331, 332, 338, 347
Podmore, Frank, Review of the Milan Experiments with Eusapia
Palladino 218
R,
R., Mrs., Cases contributed by 92, 93, 98, 105
Radnor, Lady, Evidence in the case of Miss A. 77
Ramsay, Prof., Ph.D.,F.R.S., on Partial Anaesthesia 236
Reed, Carl H., Case recorded by 170, 171
Reviews 211, 214, 216, 21S, 225, 230, 367
Richet, Prof., Report of Milan Experiments with Eusapia Palladino ... 218
Rooke, Dr. , Evidence as to the Mediumship of Mr. Stainton Moses ... 338
vi Index to Vol. IX.
S.
SchmidkuNZ, Dr. P. H., " Psychologie der Suggestion," Review of ... 214
Schofield, Dr. A. T , on the Evidence for Faith-Healing 174
Self-Suggestion, a Possible Case of 182
Sinnett, A. P., The Defence of the Theosophists, Mr. K. Hodgson's
Reply to 129, 150
Smith, H. liahington, Reviews—
" Comparative Psychical Research," by Andrew Lang 367
Kirk's "Secret Commonwealth," with an Introduction by Andrew
Lang 367
" Spiritismo e Telepatia;'' by Prof. Tamburini ... 225
Specr, Charlton T., Evidence as to the Mcdiumship of Mr. Stainton
Moses 248, 342, 344
,, Dr. and Mrs. Stanhope T. , Evidence as to the Mediumship of Mr.
Stainton Moses 247, 248, 253, 254, 264-266, 275, 276, 281, 282,
283, 284, 286-28!), 297, 301-306, 310-324, 326-330, 332, 333, 342
Stead, W. T., Cases contributed by 52-61
Stevenson, R. Louis, Case contributed by 9
St. Maclou, Dr. de, on the Lourdes Miracles ... ... 193
Subliminal Consciousness, F. W. H. Myers on 3
,, ,, Mechanism of Hysteria 3
,, ,, Motor Automatism .. 26
Motor Messages 32,33,35,37,44,48,33 61,
62, 64, 65, 67, 68, 73, 93, 98,
105, 107, 113, 119, 122, 124, 127
,, ,, ,, Classification of Modes of 39-43
Summers, Miss, Evidence in the case of Mr. Stead ... 52-57
T.
T., Mr., Case contributed by 171
Tamburini, Prof. Aug., Cases recorded by ... 228, 229
,, ,, ,, " Spiritismo e Telepatia," Review of 225
Teale, J. W., Case recorded by 206
Telepathy—Sek Motor Automatism.
,, ,, Prof. Tamburini on 225
Theosophists, The Defence of the, Mr. li. Hodgson's Reply to Mrs. Besant
and Mr. A. P. Sinnett 129
Thomson, Dr., Evidence as to the Mediumship of Mr. Stainton Moses ... 274
U.
I'ndbrwood, Mr. and Mrs., Case contributed by 107
Index to Vol. IX.
V.
Vesci, Lady de, Case contributed by
W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, Cases contributed by
Wetterstrand, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of ...
X.
X., Dr., Case recorded by
Z.
Z. , Hon. , Case contributed by
CONTENTS.
PAGE
General Meetings 1
The Subliminal Consciousness. By Frederic W. H. Myers.
Chap. VI. The Mechanism of Hysteria .... 3
Chap. VII. Motor Automatism 26
The Defence of the Theosophists. By Richard Hodgson, LL.D. . 129
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. By A. T.
Myers, M.D., F.R.C.P., and F. W. H. Myers . .160
Supplement.
Notices of Books :—
Dr. Moll's " Rapport in der Hypnose." By Walter Leaf,
Litt.D 211
Dr. Schmidkunz's " Psychologie der Suggestion." By
Walter Leak, Litt.D 214
Professor Brofferio's "Per lo Spiritismo." By Walter
Leaf, Litt.D 216
Experiments at Milan with Eusapia Palladino. By Frank
Podmore 218
Professor Tamburini's "Spiritismo e Telepatia." By H.
Babington Smith 225
Mr. T. J. Hudson's " The Law of Psychic Phenomena." . 230
General Meetings 235
Partial Anaesthesia. By Professor William Ramsay, Ph.D.,F.R.S. 236
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.—I. By Frederic W. H.
Myers 245
Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. By Richard
Hodgson, LL.D 354
Supplement.
Review :—
Mr. Andrew Lang's (1) Introduction to Kirk's " Secret
Commonwealth of Elves, Fauns, and Fairies."
(2) Essay on " Comparative Psychical Research."
By H. Babington Smith 367
Supplementary Catalogue of the Edmund Gurney Library 370
List of Members and Associates 371
List of Members and Associates of the American Branch . . 394
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 56th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, January 27th, 1893, at 4 p.m.,
Professor Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers continued his paper on " Sensory Automatism
and Induced Hallucinations," published in the Proceedings, Part
XXIII.
The 57th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
March 10th, at 8.30. p.m., Mr. Pearsall Smith in the chair.
Mr. Myers gave an address on " Motor Messages from the Sub
liminal Self," the substance of which is included in Chapter VII. of
his paper on " The Subliminal Consciousness," printed below.
Mr. F. Podmore read a paper on " Telepathic Dreams."
The 58th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
April 21st, at 4 p.m., Professor Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr. Myers read a paper on the " Mechanism of Hysteria," form
ing Chapter VI. of his paper on the " Subliminal Consciousness,"
printed below.
Mr. Podmore gave a " Criticism of the Evidence as to Phenomena
observed at Milan with Eusapia Paladino," which is printed in the
Supplement.
The 59th General Meeting was held at the same place on Friday,
June 2nd, at 8.30 p.m., Professor Barrett in the chair.
Professor W. Ramsay read a paper on " Experiments with
Antesthetics," which will be published in a future number of the
Proceedings.
Mb. Myers read part of a paper by Dr. A. T. Myers and himself on
" Mind-healing, Faith-healing, and the Miracles of Lourdes," printed
below.
B
The Subliminal Consciousness.
I.
THE SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS.
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
Chapter VI.
The Mechanism of Hysteria.
The survey of human personality on which we are now engaged ;—
involving as it does the discovery and discussion of such intimations
as upraise themselves in many quarters from the hidden or submerged
strata of our being into the consciousness of ordinary life;—is a survey
of which no single section can be complete until the whole field has
been passed under review. On the other hand, fresh problems present
themselves in each department as fresh phenomena are noted in other
departments, and closer interrelations discerned or divined. And be
sides this increasing complexity there is an increasing marvellousness
in the phenomena gradually encountered, which must needs send us
back again and again in search of phenomena analogous, but less
startling in character.
It is reasonable, therefore, that before we pass on from the complex
and marvellous phenomena described under the head of sensory
automatism to the no less surprising facts of motor automatism—
especially of automatic script and speech—-we should pause and con
sider how far our definition of motor automatism is to extend, and
what earlier or simpler phases thereof may point the way to those
highly-developed telepathic motor messages with which we are mainly
to be concerned.
In the first place we shall observe once more—what has often been
already manifest—that the simple partition of nervous action into
sensory and motor does not suffice as a logical scheme for the arrange
ment of subliminal messages. We are not, indeed, entitled to assume
that what we call sensory or motor qualities are inherent in these
messages, either as received telepathically from others, or as initiated
in the depths of our own being. Such qualities may be the mere
translation into terms intelligible by the supraliminal self of impressions
for which we possess no specialised term ;—impressions which we should
be obliged to describe vaguely as " organic " ;—although, for aught we
know, they may in reality be themselves specialised in categories of
b 2
4 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
which we have at present no conception. This seems to be the case
with many even of those subliminal messages which are ultimately
clothed in the most definite sensory form. An apparition or a
phantasmal voice may be the exteriorisation of a telepathic impact
which has first shown itself in a mere sense of apprehension or malaise.
Such an apparition is no simple optical presentation ; we may call it
if we please an internal vision, but its deeper initiatory processes are
as yet unknown.
Still more markedly is this the case with motor automatisms. The
telepathic transmission of a message directly prompting to a motor act
(as of writing) has no even apparent parallel in ordinary life. For I
cannot directly prompt my friend to a motor act ; I can so prompt him
only by first producing upon him some sensory impression. I can tell
him to write; I can stir him to answering speech; but my volition
cannot touch his motor centres of hand or throat except through some
such indirect road. All the harder, then, is it to conceive from what
form of initial impulse these motor automatisms spring ; all the more
are we bound to study such vague, organic, internuntial messages as
we can detect in their passage from one stratum of our psychical being
to another, before we deal with the full-blown motor messages,
telepathic or otherwise, which are conveyed by automatic script or
voice. In other words, and using my old metaphor, before we follow
motor automatism above the psychological end of the conscious
spectrum, we must trace its beginnings below the physiological end.
We must analyse the influence of motor and quasi-motor messages upon
the organic functions before we analyse the intellectual contents of such
messages, or discuss the source of such definite knowledge as they may
contain.
To some extent this has been already done in previous chapters.
Discussing the Mechanism of Suggestion (Chap. II.), we encountered
many vaso-motor and trophic changes over which, in my view, the
hypnotic stratum of the Self exerts habitual control. Again, the
Inspirations of Genius (Chap. III.) were seen to have their motor side,
both in the plastic arts, in music, and in oratory ; although the greater
definiteness of mathematical achievements led us to dwell mainly on a
form of genius whose results are conceived and expressed mainly in
visual terms. Dreams, which were next touched upon, involve obscure
forms of motor as well as of sensory excitation ; and the very name of
somnambulism points to a pitch of dream-intensity at which its motor
impidses translate themselves into more or less coherent action.
On these topics, then, I must be content to refer my readers to
what has already been briefly and imperfectly said. But there is one
cognate topic of great importance—one repertory of subliminal mes
sages especially of the vaguer organic types—on which I have as yet
The Subliminal Consciaumess. 5
touched so meagrely that I must needs here discuss its lessons at
some length before proceeding to those more specialised and intellec
tual motor messages of which automatic writing is the familiar type.
I allude to the whole range of morbid interchanges or interactions
between one section of the personality and another,—those " self-sug
gestive maladies," or " diseases of the hypnotic stratum," as I have
termed them (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 309), " whose differentia is an
irrational self-suggestion in regions beyond the powers of the waking
will ;—a morbid or uncontrolled functioning of powers over the
organism which effect profounder modifications than the empirical
self can parallel." For convenience' sake we. may continue to give to
all these perturbations the meaningless name of " hysteria " ;—trusting
that the reader will divest his mind of those popular notions of hysteria
which merely reflect and misinterpret some superficial symptoms of a
group of maladies which are among the most formidable, and the
most instructive, disturbances to which human minds and bodies are
exposed.
To define hysteria in nosological terms, by cataloguing and connect
ing its symptoms, is well known to be an impossible task. In our
ignorance of the physical genesis and interrelation of those symptoms
we cannot predict from one day to another what evolution the disease
will follow, or what new phenomena may occur. If we would attain
to a comprehensive view, we must seek it from some psychological
standpoint. And we must begin by distinguishing all ordinary
diseases, taken together, from their hysterical simulations, as profoundly
as we distinguish all placental mammals from the marsupial parodies
which by some freak of evolution so strangely mimic placental forms.
On the one hand we have a series of definite, objective lesions,
inflicted upon the organism by some external injury, or by some
internal operation of microbes, malnutrition, heredity disease, or senile
decay. On the other hand, and side by side with this series, we have
another series of what I may term pltantom lesions, depending, of
course, ultimately upon some cerebral conditions—hereditary, self-
developed, or traumatic ;—but so depending in an indirect rather than
in a direct fashion, not as incapacities anatomically following on injury
to definite nervous centres or tracts, but as the apparently capricious
manifestations of an injury presumably affecting some unknown seat
of highest co-ordination ; in short, as perturbations of personality,
which work themselves out through some morbid process of self-sug
gestion, according to laws of association cognisable by us, if at all,
from the intellectual rather than from the anatomical side.
These phantom lesions, I say, are not like anatomical injuries, but
like some ignorant patient's objectified dream. Hysterical patches of
anaesthesia do not correspond with any true areas of ordinary sensory
6 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
innervation ; they seem to follow the patient's crude notions of where
his limbs begin and end ; they are " anaesthetic bracelets," " anaesthetic
boots." The eye - troubles of the hysteric affect not the optical
mechanism alone, but all that the ophthalmic patient would call his
" eye " ;—all: that occupies or surrounds the orbit. Nay, certain well-
known syndromes—as the so-called hysterical " astasia-abasia," or
inability to walk and stand—are, if I may so say, unblushingly
intellectual in character, are the mere abolition by some profound
self-suggestion of one special set of co-ordinated movements deeply
rooted, first in the supraliminal, then in the subliminal life. The
"rhythmic chorea," or "danse de S. Guy," on the other hand, so
common in mediaeval Germany, is an intensification of an acquired
synergy, a helpless prolongation of a set of co-ordinated movements
which the patient is unable to arrest, as the boy in the fairy tale was
unable to arrest the mill, whose controlling charms he had forgotten,
and which is still grinding out salt at the bottom of the sea. On these
points all will agree. And I may suggest that from my own special
point of view hysterical " allocheiria "—the confusion or reversal of
motor conceptions of left and right—is but the degenerative counter
part of that ambidexterity which I regard as now accompanying the
evolutionary process in man ; and, moreover, that hysterical attaques de
sommeil are but that reversion to our primitive state of personality
which is natural, which was even predictable, amid the upheavals of
this psychic storm.
It is, then, this fundamentally psychological character of hysteria,
as a perturbation of personality, which excuses, or rather compels,
its study not only from the clinical, but from the psychological stand
point. But before we discuss symptoms which show us perturbed
personality as an undoubted evil, I feel bound once more to disavow
a view which, though it be taken for granted, for instance, by all
writers on hysteria, I cannot but regard as erroneous. I mean the
view that any perturbation of the ordinary . personality is necessarily
and in itself an evil. Such perturbations, no doubt, disturb the
" normal man " ; but the " normal man " represents in my eyes no
true ideal, no stable synthesis, but rather a transitory and shifting
compromise between the Sage and the Dement. The Sage,—if I may
thus use the name of the imaginary Stoic hero with a new implication—
would be the man who fully controlled all faculties immanent within
him ;—who (for instance) could voluntarily receive and transmit tele
pathic impressions ; who could remedy by self-suggestion his body's
remediable ills, and exempt himself at last from any painful perception
of its inevitable decay. The Dement, on the other hand, has suffered
the almost complete obscuration of personality. His organism retains
barely so much of unity as suffices to protect it from piecemeal disin
The Subliminal Comciousness. 7
tegration. Between these two extremes—the one imaginary, the
other real,—lies an almost infinite series of combinations and permuta
tions of the elements of human personality. Combinations superior
to the habitual combination which makes the normal man of the
time being are wont to arise slowly by evolution, and may be hastened
by deliberate experiment. And high among such improved plans of
psychical structure I reckon the condition of those sensitives who,
without injury to normal health or capacities, can exercise an easier
commerce than is open to most of us with their own subliminal
selves.1 Of course I am not saying that members of this type are
individually superior to men of the " normal " type any more than all
persons who are " immune " against influenza are individually superior
to all who catch it. Mr. Keulemans (on whose experiences we dwelt
in the last chapter) is not wiser than Charles Darwin ; but he never
theless belongs, in my view, to an advanced, a forward-pointing type ;
he is wiser than he would have been if, with the same character and
intelligence, he had been constructed on the physical pattern of the
normal man.
But, nevertheless, among adjustments so complex and delicate as
those of our psychical being, any perturbation will naturally be injurious
more often than beneficial. For the most part it will indicate no pro
gress towards a new ideal, but a mere incapacity of maintaining the
practical compromise which has been found needful for terrene well-
being. To all troubles of this kind, where no discernible organic lesion
is suspected, the name of hysteria is loosely given. But what a differ
ence between the various cases massed under this head ! " Great wits "
have at least never been supposed to be " near allied " to blank im
becility ; yet we are content to include in the same class of " hysterics "
at once such intense and epoch-making spirits as St. Theresa or Rousseau,
and some dead-alive inmate of the Salpetriere, who cannot vary the
pattern of wool-work on which she started years ago. nor leave the
hospital ward for the garden without bewilderment and alarm. " Les
hyste'riques menent le monde," says the French proverb. " It is the
fact," say Breuer and Freud, " that among hysterics we find the clearest-
minded, the strongest-willed, the fullest of character, the most acutely
critical specimens of humanity."2 Can these things be true of the
same class which contains all those poor Lucies and Marcelles who
seem to exist flabbily for the mere purpose of moral vivisection,—" the
1 It may, of course, be the case that the subliminal Self of the sensitive is not only
more easily reached but also more capable or better-informed than with ordinary men.
But since different degrees of facility in intercommunication seem enough to account
for difference in results, I refrain from touching on that other (obviously insoluble)
question.
2 Neurologischci Central-blatt, January 15th, 1893, p. 44.
8 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
frogs of the experimental psychologist " ? There is need, I venture
to think, of some such generalisation as I propose, if definitions
apparently so discrepant are to be brought under a higher unity. On
the view here taken, the characteristic both of St. Theresa and of Mar-
celle is a perturbed personality. But there may be many different
forms of such perturbation, leading to almost opposite results. Two
leading types of possible derangement will at once suggest themselves.
It is the business of the supraliminal Self to maintain the em
pirical span of consciousness and faculty both unimpaired and un-
invaded. " Just in this fashion," has that Self decided, " is it needful
for terrene prosperity that man should feel, and should react upon the
world outside him. There may be faculties deeper down in him which
can perceive more, and can react more profoundly. Let these faculties
keep to their proper business of superintending the organic processes,
whose mechanism I, the supraliminal Self, have never known or have
long since forgotten. I do not desire the casual incursion of powers
which I am unable to control. Nay, I must needs keep the threshold
of consciousness stable, the psychical diaphragm impermeable, if I am
to secure my own preservation. If that partition be too easily tra
versed, I shall fear that knowledge and faculty essential to my own
well-being may sink into subliminality and pass beyond my control. I
must not risk such losses. I need to be able to catch, retain, digest,
the impressions from without which subserve practical life ; to mix
them in healthy association with each other, and to excrete them from
memory when they have ceased to be of use and are becoming cumber
some or even noxious."
We shall find, I think, that in most cases of hysteria these two corre
lative dangers—of insurgence and of subsidence—are represented, but
are represented in varying proportions. With " the hysterics who lead
the world " there is no marked loss of supraliminal grasp or span, but
there is irregular uprush of subliminal faculty—an uprush like that of
genius, but less wisely directed—depending upon a lack of liminal
stability, an excessive permeability, if I may so say, of the psychical
diaphragm which separates the empirical from the latent faculties of
man.
With the confirmed and often hereditary hysteric of the hospitals,
on the other hand, the leading phenomenon is not the uprush but the
down-draught. It is the gradual sinking of one supraliminal faculty
after another—sensation, memory, will—into a subliminal region where
indeed experiment or inference may show them to be still existing, but
where they are useless for the purposes of common life. This is for the
human spirit " that vast Serbonian bog, where armies whole have
sunk"; where its powers are absorbed without annihilation, and rot
beneath the treacherous surface in an unseen decay.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 9
We must now come to concrete examples. And first let me remind
the reader that there is nothing unique or isolated about these hysteri
cal disturbances of personality. The personality of each of us is in a
state of constantly shifting equilibrium, and the healthy person, under
the influence of various intoxications, or from mere changes of trophic
condition, undergoes shiftings of the threshold, uprushes and sub
sidences of many kinds, which bear to hysterical phenomena somewhat
the same relation which those in turn bear to the more permanent
psychical changes of actual insanity. Alcoholic intoxication simulates
in its various stages a strange variety both of hysterical and of insane
symptoms. Hunger, fatigue, slight poisoning by impure air, produce a
well-known group of disturbances of memory and sensation. A very
small degree of fever is enough to produce a transient perturbation of
personality of the most violent kind. Familiar though all this may be,
there is yet, I think, some interest in the following account of a feverish
experience, sent to me by Mr. Robert Louis Stevenson, from Samoa.
For in Mr. Stevenson's paper on his own dreams, elsewhere alluded to,
we have the most striking living example known to me of that helpful
and productive subliminal uprush which I have characterised as the
mechanism of genius. It is, therefore, interesting to observe how
under morbid conditions this temperament of genius—this ready per
meability of the psychical diaphragm—transforms what might in others
be a mere vague and massive discomfort into a vivid though incoherent
message from the subliminal storm and fire. The result is a kind of
supraliminal duality, the perception at the same time of two personali
ties,—the one rational and moral, the other belonging to the stratum
of dreams and nightmare.
Vailima Plantation, Upoho, Samoan Islands.
July 14th, 1892.
Dear Mb. Myers,—I am tempted to communicate to you some experi
ences of mine which seem to me (ignorant as I am) of a high psychological
interest.
I had infamous bad health when I was a child and suffered much from
night fears ; but from the age of about thirteen until I was past thirty I
did not know what it was to have a high fever or to wander in my mind.
So that these experiences, when they were renewed, came upon me with
entire freshness ; and either I am a peculiar subject, or I was thus enabled
to observe them with unusual closeness.
Experience A. During an illness at Nice I lay awake a whole night in
extreme pain. From the beginning of the evening cme part of my mind be
came possessed of a notion so grotesque and shapeless that it may best be
described as a form of words. I thought the pain was, or was connected
with, a wisp or coil of some sort ; I knew not of what it consisted nor yet
where it was, and cared not ; only I thought, if the two ends were brought
together the pain would cease. Now all the time, with another part of my
mind, which I venture to think was myself, I was fully alive to the absurdity
10 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
of this idea, knew it to be a mark of impaired sanity, and was engaged with
my other self in a perpetual conflict. Myself had nothing more at heart than
to keep from my wife, who was nursing me, any hint of this ridiculous
hallucination ; the other was bound that she should be told of it and ordered
to effect the cure. I believe it must have been well on in the morning:
before the fever (or the other fellow) triumphed, and I called my wife to
my bedside, seized her savagely by the wrist, and looking on her with a face
of fury, cried : " Why do you not put the two ends together and put me out
of pain ? "
Experience B. The other day in Sydney I was seized on a Saturday
with a high fever. Early in the afternoon I began to repeat mechanically
the sound usually written "mhn," caught myself in the act, instantly
stopped it, and explained to my mother, who was in the room, my reasons
for so doing. "That is the beginning of the mind to wander," I said,
" and has to be resisted at the outset." I fell asleep and woke, and for the
rest of the night repeated to myself mentally a nonsense word which I could
not recall next morning. I had been reading the day before the life of
Swift, and all night long one pait of my mind (<7ie other fellow) kept inform
ing me that I was not repeating the word myself, but was only reading in
a book that Swift had so repeated it in his last sickness. The temptation,
to communicate this nonsense was again strongly felt by myself, but was on.
this occasion triumphantly resisted, and my watcher heard from me all
night nothing of Dean Swift or the word, nothing but what was rational
and to the point. So much for the two consciousnesses when I can
disentangle them ; but there is a part of my thoughts that I have
more difficulty in attributing. One part of my mind continually bid me re
mark the transnational felicity of the word, examined all the syllables,
showed me that not one was in itself significant, and yet the whole expressed
to a nicety the voluminous distress of one in a high fever and his annoyance
at and recoil from the attentions of his nurses. It was probably the same
part (and for a guess the other fellow) who bid me compare it with the non
sense words of Lewis Carroll as the invention of a lunatic with those of a
sane man. But surely it was myself (and myself in a perfectly clear-headed
state) that kept me trying all night to get the word by heart, on the ground
that it would afterwards be useful in literature if I wanted to deal with mad
folk. It must have been myself, I say, because the other fell&w believed (or
pretended to believe) he was reading the passage in a book where it could
always be found again when wanted.
Experience C. The next night the other fellow had an explanation ready
for my sufferings, of which I can only say that it had something to do with
the navy, that it was sheer undiluted nonsense, had neither end nor be
ginning, and was insusceptible of being expressed in words. Myself knew
this ; yet I gave way, and my watcher was favoured with some references to
the navy. Nor only that : the other felloic was annoyed—or I was annoyed
—on two inconsistent accounts ; first, because he had failed to make his
meaning comprehensible, and second, because the nurse displayed no
interest. The other fellow would have liked to explain further ; but myself
was much hurt at having been got into this false position and would be led
no further.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 11
In cases A and C the illusion was amorphous. I knew it to be so and yet
succumbed to the temptation of trying to communicate it. In case B the
idea was coherent, and I managed to hold my peace. Both consciousnesses,
in other words, were less affected in case B, and both more affected in cases
A and C. It is perhaps not always so : the illusion might be coherent, even
practical, and the rational authority of the mind quite in abeyance. Would
not that be lunacy ?
In case A I had an absolute knowledge that I was out of my mind, and
that there was no meaning in my words ; these were the very facts that I
was anxious to conceal ; and yet when I succumbed to the temptation of
speaking, my face was convulsed with anger, and I wrung my watcher's
wrist with cruelty. Here is action, unnatural and uncharacteristic action,
flowing from an idea in which I had no belief and which I had been conceal
ing for hours as a plain mark of aberration. Is it not so with lunatics 1
I have called the one person myself, and the other the other fellow. It
was myself who spoke and acted ; the other fellow seemed to have no control
of the body or the tongue ; he could only act through myself, on whom he
brought to bear a heavy strain, resisted in one case, triumphant in the two
others. Yet I am tempted to think that I know the other fellow ; I am
tempted to think he is the dreamer described in my Chapter on Dreams to
which you refer. Here at least is a dream belonging to the same period,
but this time a pure dream, an illusion, I mean, that disappeared with the
return of the sense of sight, not one that persevered during waking moments
and while I was able to speak and take my medicine. It occurred the day
after case B and before case C.
Case D. In the afternoon there sprang up a storm of wind with
monstrous clouds of dust ; my room looked on a steep hill of trees whose
boughs were all blowing in the same direction ; the world seemed to pass by
my windows like a mill-race. By this turmoil and movement I was confused,
but not distressed, and surprised not to be distressed ; for even in good
health a high wind has often a painful influence on my nerves. In the midst
of this I dozed off asleep. I had just been reading Scott's Life of Dryden,
had been struck with the fact that Dryden had translated some of the
Latin hymns, and had wondered that I had never remarked them in his works.
As soon as I was asleep I dreamed a reason why the sound of the wind and
the sight of the flying dust had not distressed me. There was no wind, it
seemed, no dust ; it was only Dryden singing his translated hymns in one
direction, and all those who had blamed and attacked him after the Revolu
tion singing them in another. This point of the two directions is very
singular and insane. In part it meant that Dryden was continuously flying
past yet never passing my window in the direction of the wind and dust,
and all his detractors similarly flying past yet not passing towards the other
side. But it applied, besides this, both to the words and to the music in a
manner wholly insusceptible of expression.
That was a dream ; and yet how exactly it reproduces the method of my
otherfellow while I was awake. Here is an explanation for a state of mind
or body sought—and found—in a tissue of rabid, complicated, and inex
pressible folly.—Yours very sincerely, Robert Louis Stevenson.
Let us now turn to cases of definitely hysterical uprush from sub
12 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
liminal —and, as I have maintained, specially from hypnotic strata. It
will begin by some citations from one of the best recent German sources,
that the English reader may see that these observations are not peculiar
to the French schooL
In an important essay contributed to the Neurologisches Cenlral-
blatt, for January 1st and January 15th, 1893, Dr. Joseph Breuer and
Dr. Sigm. Freud, of Vienna (in which capital there has already been much
fruitful study of hysteria), give a preliminary account of a long series
of observations on "The Psychical Mechanism of Hysterical Phe
nomena," especially with regard to the nature of the incident which
has originally started the train of symptoms. That incident, they say,
cannot usually be discovered by examination of the patient in his
ordinary condition. He will not realise its connection with his present
trouble, he may even have forgotten it altogether. But hypnotise him,
and he will clearly remember the incident itself, will fully realise its
perturbing effect on his psychical equilibrium. In fact he will usually
tell you that this very incident reproduces itself with distressing vivid
ness in every attack which he undergoes. This close connection
between some initial lesion and the subsequent troubles is observable
not only in cases of so-called traumatic hysteria, where the effect of the
primary shock—-the rupture (if I may so call it) of the psychical
diaphragm—is marked and obvious, but also in cases where the complex
and persistent troubles are commonly regarded as spontaneous and
idiopathic hysterical symptoms. Among such symptoms which have
been found on analysis to be reproductions, more or less symbolical in
character, of some definite original shock, are neuralgia, contractures,
tic, persistent vomiting and anorexia, troubles of sight, hallucinations,
tfec. A momentary accident at the time of maximum shock may
determine the character of years of malady ; much as in certain cases
of aphasia (Cf. the " come on to me " case, to which I have often
alluded) the last sentence healthily spoken will dominate the aphasic
utterance ever after. Thus a German girl, endeavouring to pray in a
moment of bewildered anguish, could think of nothing but an English
child's prayer ; somewhat as men, piously reared, when in danger
of shipwreck, have been heard muttering " What is your name 1 M. or
TST.,"—the first words of the English Church Catechism. Hysteria
developed itself, and for a year and a half this German girl could speak,
write, and understand nothing but English. In other cases the connec
tion between the original psychical lesion and the subsequent symptoms
is dreamlike or symbolical in character; as when a shock of moral
•disgust is followed by persistent hysterical vomiting. The distressing
idea which caused the original lesion seems to continue to keep up
irritation like a foreign body lodged in the organism, say a thorn in the
-finger. It must be brought to the surface and extruded ;—the painful
The Subliminal Consciousness. 13
memory must be diagnosed in the hypnotised patient and then brought
back to his waking consciousness and freely discussed, and thus
reduced to its due proportions. " A mere unemotional recollection," say
Drs. Breuer and Freud, " is generally useless ; the psychical process
which caused the trouble must be again set on foot, brought down to its
status nascendi, and then worked out (abreagirt) and talked away." The
neuralgia or the hallucination will thus recur once in full intensity and
then disappear for ever. The act of thus luring the hypertrophied idea
up from the hypnotic into the supraliminal stratum is quite analogous
to the " bringing out " of an eruption, or the re-establishment of an
arrested secretion. The benefit of tears in emotional shock—"she
must weep, or she will die "—comes just midway beween the benefit of
auricular confession and the benefit of getting out a good crop
of measles.
" It is not in the normal memory of the patient," continue our
authors, with emphasis, " but in his hypnotic memory, that the recol
lection of the operative psychical lesion is to be found. The more we
busy ourselves with these phenomena, the surer becomes our conviction
that that sundering of consciousness which is so striking in certain
classical cases of duplex personality exists in rudimentary fashion in
every case of hysteria. The tendency to this dissociation, and conse
quently to the appearance of abnormal states of consciousness, which we
propose to include under the term hypnoid, is the fundamental
phenomenon of the hysterical neurosis. . . . Beside the well-
known saying, ' Hypnosis is an artificial hysteria,' we would set this
somewhat different dictum : The foundation and condition-precedent of
hysteria is the existence of hypnoid states. Amid all their differences
these hypnoid states agree in this ;—that the images which in them rise
to the surface (auflauchen) are of a very intense character, but are
partitioned off from the rest of the contents of consciousness. . . .
The intimate nature of these hypnoid states, and the degree of their
separation from the remainder of consciousness, vary as widely as the
hypnotic trance itself, which includes all conditions from light somno
lence to somnambulism, from full recollection to complete forgetful-
ness."
And here it is noticeable that Drs. Breuer and Freud, who come
to this discussion unpledged to any hasty theory, fully recognise the
gravity—nay the insolubility under present conditions—of that problem
of the unique effectiveness and power of hypnotic suggestions, and of
hysterical self-suggestions, for which so many pseudo-solutions have
been based upon so much hypothetical cerebral physiology.
" The question," they say (p. 44), " why it is that the pathological
associations which form themselves in hypnoid states are so stable,
and influence organic processes so much "more profoundly than do the
14 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
ideas or presentations of our ordinary experience ;—this question forma
a part of the general problem of the efficacy of hypnotic suggestion in
any case whatever. Our observations throw no new light on this prob
lem ; rather they bring into relief the contradiction between the dictum
' Hysteria is a psychosis,' and the actual fact that amongst hysterics
we find the clearest-minded, the strongest-willed, the fullest of char
acter, the most acutely critical specimens of humanity. In the cases
to which we refer those characteristics hold good for the man's waking
consciousness, but in his hypnoid states he is insane—as we all are in
dream. But whereas our dream-insanities have no influence on our
waking life, in his case the products of his hypnoid conditions break
in upon his waking life as hysterical symptoms."
I need not point out the independent coincidence between these
views and those already expressed in my chapter on "The Mechanism
of Suggestion," and elsewhere.1 But I may repeat my conviction that
this problem can only be solved by continued research into what I deem
the healthy and orderly functioning of those subliminal faculties
which hypnotic suggestion reveals to us acting blindly as in a dream,
and which hysteria reveals to us acting wildly as in a nightmare.
" In hysteria," say our authors once more, after citing further ex
amples of these disturbed messages, these explosive uprushes from sub
liminal strata,—" in hysteria we are confronted with groups of formed
images which have been developed under hypnoid conditions, which are
cut off from interchange and association with the rest of the patient's
mental imagery, but are capable of association amongst themselves,
and thus constitute a more or less fully organised rudiment of a secondary
consciousness, a ' condition seconde.' Thus a chronic hysterical symp
tom corresponds to an incursion of this ' secondary condition ' upon
a tract of innervation previously governed by the normal conscious
ness, while a ' fit of hysterics ' indicates a more organised develop
ment of the ' secondary condition,' and marks by its first onset a
moment when this hypnoid consciousness (Hypnoidbetvusslsein) has
made itself master of the whole existence, as acute hysteria.
During such an attack the control over the whole bodily innervation
has passed to the hypnoid consciousness. Yet the normal conscious
ness, as some well-known experiments show us, is not always entirely
set aside. It can itself take note of the motor phenomena of the
attack, although the psychical conditions-precedent of that attack lie
outside its cognisance altogether."
I could not wish for a more emphatic support, from wide clinical
experience, of the view of hysteria to which my own observations on
different branches of automatism had already, by mere analogical
1 See Procecdingt, Vol. VII., pp. 300, 349, 353, &c.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 15
reasoning, directed my thought.1 What I would fain add to the
exposition of Drs. Breuer and Freud the reader may have already
divined. That extraordinary potency of subliminal action, which they
frankly present as insoluble by pure physiology, is part and parcel of
my scheme of man ; and its occasional appearance in this disordered
form is to me but the natural concomitant of its habitual and
inevitable residence within us ; in readiness—if we can contrive to
summon it—to subserve our highest needs.
For I have urged that we men here incarnated are in very truth
" clausi tenebris et carcere caeco " ;—that in this darkness and imprison
ment our terrene faculties represent merely such fraction of our pre-
terrene faculties as the struggle for existence has compelled the
organisms from which our bodies spring to conserve and develop. And
I have claimed that,the potential faculties which terrene evolution has
not thus developed do none the less make themselves manifest from
time to time in terrene life ; that gleams of a wider perception, a truer
insight, may flash into the darkened and narrowed chamber of con
sciousness which our earthly brain allows. Apart from such super
normal visitings, the evolutive process consists, in my view, of a constant
expansion of the span of supraliminal consciousness ; a constant
re-selection of faculties and perceptions to suit an ever more extended
purview, a wider present which opens upon man. We add the higher
artistic and moral faculties—drawing these from their latency in the
depths of our subliminal being ;—and at the same time we lose the
power of repairing injuries which our remote ancestors possessed, the
acuter sense of smell which our near ancestors possessed ;—and who
knows what other faculties which existed somewhere in our long ances
tral line ? We widen, deepen, and select. The spectrum of empirical
consciousness grows both longer and brighter ; but some dark lines
appear in places which once were bright.
A process thus involving our own selves may be as difficult to
examine directly, and by our own sensations, as it is to examine directly,
and by our own sensations, the rotation of the earth. Or, to recur to
our earlier metaphor, if we would study solar physics we do not only
watch for changes in the spectrum of our noonday sun ; we look for
the spectrum of a sun in the making, or of a sun eclipsed, or of a sun
1 Conceptions of what I have called ttratified consciousness are now coming to
the front in so many places that it may be of interest to remark that (so far as I
know) such a conception first presented itself independently to three observers, as
the result of three different lines of experiment. Mr. Gurney was led that way by
experiments on hypnotic memory ; M. Pierre Janet by experiments on hysteria ; and
to myself the observation of various automatisms neither hysterical nor hypnotic,—as
automatic script and the like—brought a still more developed (I do not say a better
established) conception of the stratified nature of our psychical being, of the higher
faculties discernible in the deeper strata, and of the unity which comprehends them
all.
16 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
already darkening down into the night. The animal world still exists
to show us our sun of terrene consciousness in its nebulous making
sleep and trance show that sun eclipsed ; and the subliminal uprushes,
seen more clearly when waking consciousness is obscured, are for us
what for the astronomer are the rosy prominences, upleaping from the
hidden flame.
But where shall we get our spectrum of a sun going out ? Where,
in plain words, shall we come upon a process dissolutive of terrene
personality which may be the nearest approach to a precise reversal of
the evolutive process which our hypothesis has assumed 1 For this we
need some slow, functional brain-degeneration, not dependent upon any
localised lesion or any specific intoxication. The process through senile
decay to the coma of imminent dissolution has already furnished us with
some observations strongly corroborative of the scheme of personality
here proposed. Of vivid, supernormal messages received or transmitted
at or about the moment of death,—and of the inferences which such
facts suggest,—my readers have heard much and often. But for the
detailed study here desired we need to find a narrowing of the field of
consciousness at once more definitely progressive and more persistent
under our prolonged experiment.
Now, surely, is the moment to remember that other result of hys
terical loss of liminal stability to which we have as yet barely alluded.
We have said that when the psychical diaphragm has once given way
there is down-draught as well as uprush. Besides the incursions from
the hypnotic stratum of which we have been speaking, there are losses
from the supraliminal stratum ;—narrowings of empirical consciousness
which may look like absolute abolitions of familiar powers, but
which often turn out to be the mere subsidence of those powers to a
level where the empirical will can no longer reach them. Such are
indeed the main phenomena of advanced, of chronic hysteria; and to these
we must now turn ; seeking whether in this disintegrative process there
are traces of the original mode of integration ; whether, when the
stratum which remains supraliminal is thinned to a shell and straitened
to a speck, there come to it upward messages from its own lost wealth
and submerged powers,—simulating in that miserepsyclwloyique the gifts
once sent upwards to its affluence from the still richer treasure-house
below. In this inquiry we can have no better guide than Dr. Pierre
Janet, whose recent work, L'Etat Mental des Hysteriqnes, is full of
precisely such observations as must either confirm or altogether dis
credit the theory with which we are now concerned.
What then, to begin with, is M. Janet's general conception of the
psychological state of the advanced hysteric ?
" In the expression / feel," he says (Etat Mental, p. 39), " we have
two elements ; a small new psychological fact ' feel,' and an enormous
The Subliminal Consciousness. 17
mass of thoughts already formed into a system ' L' These two things
mi-x and combine, and to say I feel is to say that the personality,
already enormous, has seized and absorbed this small new sensation ;
. . . as though the / were an amoeba which sent out a prolongation
to suck in this little sensation which has come into existence beside
it." Now it is in the assimilation of these elementary sensations
or affective states with the perception personnelle, as Janet terms
it, that the advanced hysteric fails. Her field of consciousness is
so far narrowed that it can only take in the minimum of sensations
necessary for the support of life. " One must needs have consciousness
of what one sees and hears, and so the patient neglects to perceive the
tactile and muscular sensations with which he thinks that he can
manage to dispense. At first he could perhaps turn his attention to
them, and recover them at least momentarily within the field of personal
perception. But the occasion does not present itself, and the psycho
logical bad habit is formed. . . . One day the patient—for he is
now veritably a patient—is examined by the doctor. His left arm is
pinched, and he is asked whether he feels the pinch. To his surprise
the patient realises that he can no longer feel consciously, can no longer
bring back into his personal perception sensations which he has
neglected too long—he has become anaesthetic. . . . Hysterical
anaesthesia is thus a fixed and perpetual distraction, which renders
its subjects incapable of attaching certain sensations to their person
ality ; it is a restriction of the conscious field."
On just the same principles may the amnesia and the akinesia
or pseudo-paralysis of hysterics—which last is really an aboulia or
defect of will and not a paralysis—be explained. In each case there
is a dropping out from attention of groups of recollections, which
through enfeebled attention (aprosexia,) the patient is no longer able
to grasp. The life has shrunk to the smallest needs of the actual
moment ; it has ceased to look before and after ; its threshold of
consciousness has mounted higher, so that the waking consciousness of
the hysteric embraces only a shallow and narrow layer of what was the
waking consciousness of the healthy man. " 0 dear spirit, half-lost In
thine own shadow " ;—surely the words which the poet addresses to the
man-soul undergoing its descent into generation gain a fresh signifi
cance if we apply them to the man-soul thus shadowed anew; his
normal terrene consciousness shrinking into a fragment, even as into
a fragment had shrunk already at earthly birth his memory of " the
glories he had known, And that imperial palace whence he came."
Let us see if there is more in this analogy than a poetic fancy. I
have urged—and the idea draws its descent from philosophers as well
as poets—that amid our normal terrene life we trace incursions of
a subliminal consciousness, with obscure pre-terrene memories, frag-
c
18 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
mentary pre-terrene powers. And I now ask whether any like incur
sion of pre-Salpetriere faculties, any obscure traces of the freer, more
potent life of old, are discernible amid the narrowed life of hysterics,
and show to those who watch them from a larger existence that amid
all their dimness and bewilderment those imprisoned spirits yet " are
greater than they know " 1
Let us take first a question as definite as may be possible ;—the
question of field of vision and subsequent visual memory. I have
contended that what we know that we see is not really all that we see,
and that what we know that we remember is not really all that we
remember. I have urged that it is at least possible that whatever has
once fallen within our actual field of vision may be perceived by the
subliminal self and permanently registered in the subliminal memory,
and I have adduced cases where dream or crystal-vision has brought to
the surface some fact thus subliminally observed, but which provably
has never come within the cognisance oi the supraliminal self. And I
have suggested that albeit the messages or reports of unobserved objects
thus cast up from the subliminal storehouse—" the treasure of the
heart "—were often casual-seeming and trivial, yet sometimes also
they seemed to show selective choice, and to indicate a guardianship
subliminally exercised over the ignorance and folly of the empirical
self.
Can we, then, find any parallel phenomena in hysteria 1 Are there
any cases where the narrowed and shallowed field of hysterical con
sciousness receives messages from the normal perceptive faculty, still
persisting, though in what has now become a subliminal fashion? and
are such messages ever made useful as warnings of danger, or as
guidance to a fruitful end 1
Thanks to the delicacy of modern experiments on various
anaesthesue, and especially on optical defects, it is now possible to
distinguish between the range of perception (visual field, &c.), of which
hysterics have conscious control, and the range of perception (visual
field, &c.), from which a certain amount of information reaches them in
an unconscious fashion. Thus, for instance, it has now long been
known that a hysteric might assert himself to be totally blind of the
right eye, while yet, if he was made to look at a given object with his
right eye, while believing that he was looking at it with his left, he
could see the object perfectly well. This anomaly was naturally
supposed to be due to mere simulation. Similar anomalies were soon
observed in hysterical colour-blindness. The green (for example) which
the hysteric said he could not see did nevertheless affect the retina
and induce a complementary after-image. A still more naive attempt
(as it might seem) at deceit was exhibited by one of Professor Janet's
subjects, who, when her head was placed behind a screen and the two
The Subliminal Consciousness. 19
sides of her body—that on which she could feel and that on which she
could not feel—were pinched at intervals, replied, "I feel," whenever the
sensitive side was pinched, and " I don't feel " whenever the pinch was
on the soi-disant insensitive side.
But in truth,—although I must refer my readers to Professor Janet's
book (see especially pp. 35-7) for the proof of what I here summarise,—
in truth we are dealing in the great mass of these cases not with deceit
nor with recklessness, but with a condition of things which, since it
has till lately entirely baffled medical interpretation, may well have
been puzzling enough to have bewildered the sufferers themselves.
We are dealing with a fluctuating constriction of the conscious field ;
with a shifting faculty which can at one moment embrace some given
stimulation within the range of " personal perception,"—as something
which the " I " cognises as " my " sensation,—and then at the next
moment loses grasp of the stimulation, which thus falls back into the
condition of an " elementary sensation," in some sense still existing
but no longer comprised in the conscious personality. Or the differ
ence may be, not between one minute of wider and the next of
narrower purview, but between one mode and another mode of per
ceiving the stimulus ;—the colour green, for instance, remaining
unnoted when the subject endeavours to apply a voluntary act of
choice among colours, but still manifesting itself to the more deeply-
lying, more automatic perception which feels the red blur when the
retina is exhausted by prolonged gazing on the green spot.
These phenomena, which to readers unfamiliar with the subject may
look so dubious, are phenomena common both in incipient and in estab
lished hysteria; and their reality derives a stern confirmation from the
cases in which their slow advance—still on the same lines of contracting
personality, shrinking power- of attention—lands the sufferer at last
in worldly ruin, in compulsory seclusion, in insanity and irremediable
decay. For ourselves every stage of this process is rich in parallels
with our larger conception of pre-terrene personality submitting to,
and reacting against, the limitations of the flesh. The internuntial
messages which for us reach the normal terrene field or stratum of
personality from profounder strata are paralleled for the hysteric by
the messages which reach the shallowed hysteric stratum from the
remainder of the normal terrene field. In each case such messages
may be frequent or rare, trivial, or apparently purposive and designed
to guide or restrain. They are frequent and trivial in the crystal-seer
who can summon up a picture almost at will ; and in the hysterical
girl who, with her ordinary field of vision contracted almost to a point,
is yet able to play at ball with her companions ; the slight excitement
of the exercise widening the visual field sufficiently to allow her to
follow the ball's flight through the air. Again, the messages are rare
c 2
20 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
and monitory in such incidents in healthy lives as that (already
published) of the hurrying lady who saw the figure whose presence
checked her from falling through the open door of the elevator ;—or of
that other lady whom a sense of a touch on the arm hindered from
heedlessly throwing her banknotes into the fire. And in like fashion
they are rare and monitory in the hysteric who has long lost all feeling
in the hands, but who nevertheless in some way avoids the burns on
the hands characteristic of that profound insensibility which follows on
the nervous lesions of syringo-myelitis.
Again, we have printed several instances where the nearness of
some object, not cognisable by the ordinary senses (as the dried body
of a baby in the roof, the buried body of a murdered man in a field), has
apparently caused a distress or alarm which the supraliminal self has
been unable to explain. Somewhat similarly we find that when an object
which specially stimulates the hysterical fears of a given subject (as
a lighted match, a stuffed mouse,) is brought within what would be
the normal visual field of a hysteric, the alarming object starts a hys
terical attack, although an indifferent object fails to be discerned until
brought within the very much narrower visual field over which alone
the hysteric is aware of having any sight. The parallel is maintained
as to subliminal calculation. " When I count," said a hysteric, " I
write the result, but I know that I have-not really worked the sum.
I no longer understand my own ideas ; they seem to come of themselves ;
it is as though they were written on a great roll of paper which un
winds itself before me." Compare the " mental blackboard " of the
" calculating boy." Did space allow it, we might follow out these analo
gies in further detail. It must here suffice to say that this great mass
of hysterical phenomena seems explicable only by the very conception
which we have elsewhere advanced on a larger scale,—the principle
of a restricted personality reinforced by intimations or messages pro
ceeding from a wider personality subjacent but habitually unreachable ;
—yet, meantime, more or less cognisant of the proceedings of the em
pirical self.
Turning from sensory to motor automatism, the more special topic
of this paper, let us again consider what phenomena our theory would
lead us to expect.
Do we find that beneath the kinesthetic obtuseness, the confused
ataxia, the impotent aboulia of these miserable women there are any
indications that the complex movements once acquired are not really
forgotten 1 that there is still a will which can rule the organism in the
old way ? If so, we shall have a fresh parallel to our conception of a
more potent and profounder personality, underlying for us normal
persons also the personality which we know. When the hysteric is in
an " aboulic " state—has lost the power to will any action which
The Subliminal Consciousness. 21
presents novelty or difficulty—do we find that she can still perform
such actions without conscious will, and as though by help of a motor
message transmitted from the self which for her is now subliminal but
which in health was the self which was habitually in conscious play ?
Have we parallels of this kind to the automatic writing or drawing of
the normal man ? or to his automatic speech 1 or to those inspirations
of genius which transcend the fruits of conscious toil ? I leave it to
one of Prof. Janet's hysterics to reply :—
" I cannot in the least understand what is going on," said Maria, when
she entered the hospital ; "for some time past I have been working in an
odd way ; it is no longer I who am working, but only my hands. They
get on pretty well, but I have no part in what they do. When it is over I
-do not recognise my work at all. I see that it is all right ; but I feel that I
am quite incapable of having accomplished it. If anyone said, It is not yon
who did that ! I would answer, True enough, it is not I. When I want to
sing, it is impossible to me ; yet at other times I hear my voice singing the
:8ong very well. It is certainly not I who walk ; I feel like a balloon which
jumps up and down of itself. When I want to write, I find nothing to say,
my head is empty, and I must let my hand write what it chooses, and it fills
four pages, and if the stuff is silly I cannot help it,"
"The curious point is," continues M. Janet, "that in this fashion she
.produces some really good things. If she makes up a dress or writes a letter
she sometimes shows real talent, but it is all done in a bizarre way. She
looksabsorbed in her work, but yet unconscious of it; when she lifts her head
she seems dazed as if she was coming out of a dream, and does not recollect
what she has been doing. Her way of acting recalls what is said of men of
:genius who obey their inspiration without being themselves aware of accom
plishing their masterpieces. ... To take a humbler comparison, she acts
-as we occasionally do when we let our hand write of itself a word which we
have forgotten how to spell. But what with us is accidental is with her per
petual ; although she has still activity she has no longer the personal
consciousness of this activity, and her acts therefore can no longer be
called voluntary. . . . Some patients, on the other hand, will not or cannot
abandon themselves to this automatic activity. They try to perform
the actions consciously and voluntarily, and then they fail altogether. "
I pass on to one of M. Janet's most acute observations 1 ;—a case
where the difference between the faculty still at the command of the
supraliminal personality and the faculty transmissible only by
automatic impulse from the self now subliminal reaches its maximum
point, and suggests some reflections of novel import.
"If we tell hemiplegics or amyotrophies to squeeze the dynamo
meter, we get such figures as 5 and 10,—very much what these hysterics
manage to reach. But with the truly paralysed such figures do not
surprise us. We know that we are dealing with impotent persons,
whose every action shows their weakness. But our hysterics who mark
1 Elal Mental de> Hystiriquti, p. 171.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
5 and 10 are by no means impotent ; they sew, they work, they carry
burdens without any apparent trouble. Ctlestine, for instance, is a
robust country girl, accustomed to hard work, and still asking as a
favour to be allowed to sweep and rub the floors. She is quick^
tempered, and when things do not go just as she likes she shakes the
beds, changes their places, and lifts with one arm the wooden armchairs.
She has terrible fits of passion ; and in some asylums where she has
been she has soundly thrashed strong men. Well ;—I stop this young
woman in the middle of her work, and give her the dynamometer to
squeeze. To begin with, she is absolutely anaesthetic on both sides of
her body, and must needs look at the instrument in order to be able to
squeeze it at all. I have tried this experiment often ; and the
dynamometer generally marks 9 with the squeeze of her right hand, 5
with that of her left. Now I repeat that such indications of feeble
muscular power are in complete contradiction with what I see her doing
every minute. I have made the trial myself, and although I can
squeeze the same dynamometer up to 50, I cannot lift and move
the chairs and beds as Celestine does. ... It is clear that in the
hysteric there is a special modification of muscular power when she is
made the subject of an experiment ;—when she is told to pay attention,
and to squeeze an instrument with personal will in order to show her
personal strength. She can then no longer get at her strength ; she
cannot use it in this fashion ; albeit the strength is really there and
is lavishly expended in all the acts of common life, when the patient
is not thinking of it. What we have here is a defect not of muscle
but of will."
I venture to make such a case as Celestine's the starting point of a
s range speculation. Suppose that it becomes necessary to form a con
ception of what really happens when a "spirit" is said to move an
object lying near a " medium," but beyond his normal reach ; suppose
that we come to think that here, too, as in hysteria itself, there is
something beyond the fraud and beneath the confusion,—will these
hysterical phenomena afford us any analogy, however remote 1 We see
these hysterics with the strength of a mere baby at command, the
strength of a strong man latent and operating through another
stratum of the self. We see them with only vague and feeble move
ments under their conscious control ; while strong and definite
movements are still evocable by suggestion coming from without.
And now let us suppose that each man brought with him into earth-
life a force or will capable of a far more exhausting (and a far less
useful) form of activity than that on which he usually employs it. He
uses it to act somehow upon the brain, and somehow upon the nerves,
and so to move heavy objects in contact with his muscular organism.
But it is also (on our hypothesis) capable of moving small objects
The Subliminal Consciousness. 23
which are near his person, but not actually in contact with it. Now
if for a long time he should fail to discover this power of his, that need
by no means surprise us. Until a few years ago he had failed to discover
that he could affect matter at a little distance from him in a far more
striking way ; namely, that he could light a fire with his fingers. Yet
how to light a fire was the most essential discovery which man ever
made ; and no one knows how many thousand years it took our
ancestors to make it. If the cave-man, and Aristotle, and Bacon
together could have seen the summer-boarder at Colorado Springs
lighting the gas with his fingers, would they not have exclaimed, " Ou
supercherie, ou miracle 1 " in absolute unison 1 Yet all that the summer-
boarder needed to do was to rub his feet on the floor.
Suppose, then, that man is born in virtual possession of this telekinetic
power,—this capacity of acting upon ponderable objects at a short dis
tance from his person in some way not wholly different from the way in
which he acts upon his own limbs. And suppose that this latent power
is not called forth and developed by natural selection, but remains
unobserved and unsuspected in the subliminal strata of his being. He
can now move by voluntary effort only objects in contact with his
periphery ; just as the hysteric by voluntary effort can only squeeze the
dynamometer with a baby's strength. But sometimes that power, less
deeply subliminal in some of us men than in others, crops up in
some " spontaneous physical phenomenon," or movement of an object
at a small distance in accordance with no known law. So also with
C^lestine, the muscular strength—now for her subliminally controlled,
—crops up sometimes in sudden action, when the hands that can
scarce deflect the little brass index thrash the strong man. Or some
times it may be that some other fuller intelligence, possessing man's
terrene faculties in their entirety, and knowing that the hysteric does
in truth possess those faculties too, will evoke by suggestion and
artifice the latent power which the hysteric herself could never reach.
Even so does M. Janet, who knows that Isabelle's co-ordinating power
is really intact, tell her to touch her face, and she succeeds in doing
so ; although if she tries to do this without his command her hands
go helplessly astray. If we men also have lost by disuse and forget-
fulness some pre-natal power, can we conceive that intelligences who
consciously possess that power, and who discern it in us also, may by
suggestion and artifice bring it to the surface, and startle us as
M. Janet startles the confused hysteric by the seemingly impossible
resurgence of what is her Self indeed 1
One more reflection, and I have done. I would call attention
to the hysterical indifference; to the apathy or frivolity of these
wretched sufferers ; to their unconsciousness of their own lost powers,
of their paralysing disabilities;—of what we feel, in spite of all
24 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
that apathy, to be their pitiful and bewildered woe. Is it a question
of anaesthesia, or of contraction of the visual field 1 To the ordinary
man even slight losses of cutaneous sensation are distressing and
unforgettable. In graver disturbances,—to sufferers, for instance,
from the " tabetic mask " of facial insensibility,—the affliction is no
less than terrible. So likewise a retrenchment of the field of vision
when caused by pigmentary retinitis will induce a sense of distressed
confusion quite disproportionate to the actual loss of self-guiding
power. But the hysteric, on the other hand, will support with absolute
indifference sometimes an almost punctiform retrenchment of the visual
field, sometimes an anesthesia of half or of all her body. 1 She will not
even be aware of her complete incapacity to distinguish objects by touch.
Sometimes, indeed, she will save from the wreck of her sensibility
some pre-hysteric reminiscence, some knowledge which—to adapt again
the poet's description of man's limitation by earthly birth—she has
" trailed " after her, " not in entire forgetfulness, and not in utter
nakedness," from that common world of humanity from which she
is now exiled. She will still know by touch a comb, an earring, the
feel of her own fringe of hair. She will dwell fondly on these recog
nised objects, and play with the shells which she has thus picked up
upon the shore of the ocean of truth.
Is it loss of will, of memory, from which she suffers ? If no
demand is made upon her, no stimulus applied, she will pass days in
re-reading the same newspaper, re-knitting the same pattern, with no
apparent desire for progress, nor outlook beyond the present hour.
Sometimes indeed there will be " obstinate questionings of sense and
outward things " : "Is all this true ? " said Marcelle at a concert ;—
" the music, the dances ;—it seems not true, it must be a dream."
The same patient, allowed to pass from the hospital ward into the
garden, found her " shadowy recollections " too much for her peace.
" Where am I ? What is this ? " she cried ;—with " fallings from her,
vanishings," she felt with anxious feet whether the earth was solid
beneath her; and, " moving about in worlds not realised," her whole
outlook merged into the dark.
Might not this tale be told, mutato nomine, of the whole race of
mortal men 1 What assurance have we that from some point of higher
vision we men are not as these shrunken and shadowed souls ?
Suppose that we had all been a community of hysterics ; all of us
together subject to these shifting losses of sensation, these inexplicable
gaps of memory, these sudden defects and paralyses of movement and
of will. Assuredly we should soon have argued that our actual powers
1 See Janet, op. cit., p. 18, &c. Charcot, Pitres, and many other observers have
dwelt on the same phenomena ; but here as elsewhere Janet's statement is the best
from the psychological side.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 25
were all with which the human organism was or could be endowed.
We should have thought it natural that nervous energy should only
just suffice to keep attention fixed upon the action which at the
moment we needed to perform. We should have pointed out that our
lack of sensation over large tracts of the body rarely led to positive
injury ;—but by what means such injury was averted, by the action of
what subjacent intelligence our skin was saved from steel or fire,—of
this we should have been too contentedly ignorant even to ask the
question. Nor, again, should we have been astonished at our
capricious lack of power over our organisms, our intermittent defect of
will. We should have held, and with some reason, that the mystery
as to how our will could ever move any limb of our bodies was far
greater than the mystery as to why certain limbs at certain moments
failed to obey it. And as for defects of recollection ;—is the reader
inclined to think that the hysterical memory could never have been
accepted as normal 1 That some guess of a more continuous conscious
ness, of an identity unmoved and stable beneath the tossing of the
psychic storm, must needs have been suggested by all those strange
interruptions ?—by the lapses into other phases of personality, by the
competing fields of reminiscence, by the clean sweep and blank
destruction of great slices and cantles of the Past ? I ask in turn how
much of guess at an underlying continuity has been suggested, I do not
say to the popular, but even to the scientific mind, by life broken as
we know it now?—by our nightly lapses into a primitive phase of
personality 1 by the competing fields of recollection which shift around
the hypnotic trance ? by the irrecoverable gaps in past existence when
the sun's ray or the robber's bludgeon has struck too rudely on the skull 1
Nay, if we had been a populace of hysterics we should have
acquiesced in our hysteria. We should have pushed aside as a fantastic
enthusiast the fellow sufferer who strove to tell us that this was not
all that we were meant to be. As we now stand,—each one of us
lotus, teres, atque rotundus in his own esteem,—we see at least how
cowardly would have been that contentment, how vast the ignored
possibilities, the forgotten hope. Yet who assures us that even here
and now we have developed into the full height and scope of our
being 1 A moment comes when the most beclouded of these hysterics
has a glimpse of the truth. A moment comes when, after a profound
slumber, she wakes into an instant clair ;—a flash of full perception,
which shows her as solid vivid realities all that she has in her bewilder
ment been apprehending phantasmally as a dream. 'e£ dvelqov 6'avruca—
*Hk wraf. Is there for us also any possibility of a like resurrection
into reality and day 1 Is there for us any sleep so deep that waking
from it after the likeness of perfect man we shall be satisfied ; and
shall see face to face ; and shall know even as also we are known 1
26 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Chapter VII.
Motor Automatism.
The phenomena of hysteria which we discussed in the last chapter
were perhaps in themselves strange to many of my readers. Still
stranger must have been the hypothesis proposed for their explanation,
and assuming them under the general theory of personality which
these chapters set forth. Yet neither the phenomena themselves
(attested, indeed, by leading medical authorities), nor the theory
suggested could be said to transcend known laws in the same way as
any form of thought-transference, for instance, transcends them.
The " messages " which I described as passing between one stratum
and another of the hysterical personality were purely internuntiative,
and not telepathic. Their whole course, that is to say, lay within the
individual himself ; they transmitted the command or the information
from one part of that individual's intelligence to another ; but they did
not involve any supernormal communication of ideas from an extraneous
mind. Such supernormal element as hysteria does contain is of a
different order ; it consists in indications of powers beyond what I
have called the " red end " of the conscious spectrum,—of potent in
fluences exerted over organic processes by the apparently random orders
of the dreaming or distracted hypnotic self.
In the motor messages to which we are now proceeding, on the other
hand,—just as in the sensory messages discussed in Chapter V.,—the
main interest lies in the original source of the message which in some
way reaches the automatist's subliminal self, and is thence transferred
to his supraliminal perception.
And to these definite telepathic motor messages the vaguer inter
nuntiative, organic messages of hysteria, just discussed, as well as
those of hypnotic suggestion, discussed in Chapter II., form a kind
of approach or introduction. They form such an introduction, I say,
more naturally to motor than to sensory messages ; for although the
sensory messages also—spontaneous hallucinations, crystal-vision and
the like—are presumably themselves also based upon and developed
from obscure organic conditions, yet the fact of such development is
more obvious, as we shall presently see, with messages which, like
those with which we shall deal in this chapter, often involve a consi
derable amount of varied organic disturbance, from which the definite
verbal or written message issues at last as the final product towards
which those less specialised efforts have been confusedly tending.
Our first inquiry, therefore, will naturally be : Are there messages
which conform to the same general type as those hypnotic, those
hysteric messages, but which differ in containing a telepathic or a.
clairvoyant element ?
The Subliminal Consciousness. 27
The reader well knows what reply we have to make to this
question. The intermixture of telepathic phenomena in the phenomena
of hypnotism has been one of our most constant themes of discussion.
And the telepathic phenomena thus observed have often been of that
comparatively vague organic kind with which we are at this moment
specially concerned. Thus the sensory messages conveyed telepathically
to the hypnotised subject have not belonged only to the higher,
exacter senses of sight and hearing. They have included—from the
time of Elliotson and Esdaile onwards—impressions made on the less
definite or intellectual senses of taste, smell, temperature, contact and
pain. And there have been motor messages also ;—especially that
deep-seated, pervading form of motor message which consists (as of old
in H. S. Thompson's cases) in an impulse to rush to the distant
hypnotiser. Without repeating what has been so often narrated, the
reader may be reminded that at this special point of our scheme
we have much corroborative matter to introduce.
If, then, hypnotic phenomena have proved thus fruitful in
telepathic incident, can we say the same of hysteria 1 Hysterical dis
turbance mainly affects the infra-red spectrum ; does it ever affect the
ultra-violet spectrum as well 1
The answer to this question is still doubtful. It is only in France
that there is enough of experiment with hysterics to promise an
answer, and one series of French experiments, which seemed at one
time to afford an affirmative answer, is not, in my view, sufficiently
confirmed. I allude to the supposed transference of hysterical symp
toms, by aid of the magnet, from one patient to another, as often
demonstrated by Dr. Babinski at the Salpetriere, and kindly shown by
him to the late Edmund Gurney and myself. Inasmuch as these
experiments, if valid, would precisely have suited my argument at this
point, the reader will probably not demand from me a long account of
my reasons for awaiting their further confirmation.
Apart from these doubtful phenomena there seems little reason to
think that hysteria, as apart from hypnotisability, exerts a specially
favouring effect on telepathic phenomena. Some few hysterics (as the
" Madame B." of the Havre experiments) who have been very
constantly hypnotised, have become excellent subjects, but it is not
clear that healthy persons, if similarly trained, might not have given
like results.
A converse question is of considerable interest. Even if hysterics
show no special aptitude for transmitting ordinary telepathic messages,
do healthy telepathic agents show any power of transmitting hysterical
phenomena? This is in fact the question at the root of sorcery.
Gurney has already shown that such phenomena of witchcraft as have
any real first-hand evidence to support them are explicable by hysteria,
28 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
hypnotic suggestion and self-suggestion. While dealing mainly with the
most striking point—the effect of self-suggested hallucinations upon the
•witch herself,—he remarks also that " if we bear in mind the prevalent
,belief that the witch commanded the full powers of the devil, we need
not refuse to connect the threats and angry words of unpopular old
women with a certain proportion, at any rate, of the illnesses which are so
freely testified to as having soon after supervened." 1 We may expand
this sentence, perhaps, by saying that the witch induced hypnosis in
herself and hysteria in her neighbours. There is something indeed in
the wasting of the bewitched person—apparently progressive, and then
suddenly mending—which strongly suggests the now familiar hysterical
malady of " pseudo-tabes."
Limua ut hie durescit et haec ut cera liquescit
Uno eodemque igni ; sic nostro Daphnis amore.
Could we better describe the intercurrent spasm and paresis of
that phantom affection? the threatened death, yet the rapid disappear
ance under the influence of pleasurable shock 1
But the incantations of the Pharmaceutria—unlike the face to face
cursing of which Gurney speaks—were intended to take effect lele-
pathically . Ts there any evidence for such action ? any evidence, that
is to say, that there ta,n be a telepathic projection into other minds
not only of our harmless pictures of Queens of Hearts or of hippopo
tami, but of such impulses as may generate in the percipient some of
those hysterical symptoms which we know to be generated with such
disastrous ease by the unconscious self-suggestion of the hysteric's own
unstable being ? If this be so, we should have something like an
explanation for many tales of mediaeval sorcery and of the so-called
" black magic " about which so much nonsense is still occasionally
written. Nor is there any obvious reason why this should not sometimes
occur ; why a telepathic impulse should not sometimes be felt by the
percipient as an obsessing presence, a disintegrating intrusion into a
sensitive mind. I can only say that we have not as yet met with any well-
attested case of this type ; and that, on the other hand, we have heard
various statements of telepathic persecution which we felt bound to rank
as examples of a not uncommon class of insane delusions. It was, there
fore, with surprise as well as interest that we received some years ago
from Dr. Gibotteau (known to Professor Richet) the record (since
published at greater length in the Annalea des Sciences Psychiques) of
certain experiments made partly by himself, but chiefly under his
supervision, by a woman,—ignorant indeed of most other arts—but
trained (as she said) in sorcery by her mother, in a village in Nor
mandy. This woman was willing to communicate her hereditary artifices,
1 Pkantatms of the Living, Vol, I,, p. 182.
The Subliminal Consciousness.
which turn out to be precisely such as our knowledge of other tele
pathic experiments might have led us to anticipate. I have already
quoted (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 466) some of Berthe's doings. I
add some accounts, mainly of motor disturbances, akin to those of
hysteria, and generated, as Dr. Gibotteau believes, by Berthe's tele
pathic action,—although the limits of suggestion and self-suggestion
are in some cases hard to define.
M. 57.—"Passive telepathy," says Dr. Gibotteau,1 " the r6le of percipient,
was nota marked feature in Berthe's case ; and it was generally by an exercise
of will that she arrived at it. I do not remember that she ever became sponta
neously aware of any action performed by me. More commonly she would
seek and listen. Sometimes she mentally followed the track of her subject ;
sometimes she watched a place where she supposed that he must pass ; and
from this ambush, as it were, she seized him as he went by. For example,
she had resolved to prevent me from walking up the Boulevard St.
Michel, towards the Observatory,—a street by which I do not often pass.
Seldom have I passed that way without feeling her presence, and a resis
tance which took two quite different forms. Sometimes I felt an un
usual feebleness in my legs, which seemed paralysed. It was as though I
had been carrying on my shoulders a weight too heavy for me. If I turned
to walk the other way, I felt myself light and free. At other times I had a
certain difficulty in moving forwards, as if I had been struggling against a
strong wind, or rather against a current of water which reached to my
middle, for the sensation was confined to the legs. I amused myself by
observing this effect, which I quite understood to proceed from Berthe. If
I turned the other way, the opposite effect followed ; the imaginary current
seemed to drag me towards the Seine, and I had difficulty in preventing
myself from running.
'.'Berthe's other method of influencing me was mentally to explore
a place—my own room, for instance, and thus somehow to discover whether
I was there. This at last became very tiresome. When I wished that she
should leave me alone I deceived her by the following artifice. I took the
homeward route in the evening, summoning her strongly, and as soon as she
mentally replitd I continued my route in imagination, picturing to myself
one point in it after another. I fancied myself entering my house, mounting
the staircase, and going to bed and to sleep. Then I suddenly broke contact
with her, and continued my real walk in another direction. It will be under
stood that in the absence of notes I cannot now give precise details, but all
these facts stood out clearly enough at the time. I ought to add that she by
no means always succeeded ; nor did she always tell the truth, being given
to boast about her powers of this kind. Nevertheless, the kind of surveillance
which I felt hanging over me for the space of two months was, perhaps, the
most interesting to me among all Berthe's phenomena.
" My friend L. on one and the same evening both imposed upon Berthe,
and received from her, a sensation of this kind. After a single sitting with her
he endeavoured to prevent her from returning home, at about 11 p.m., and
to make her take a road which led her away from her lodgings into a solitary
1 Annates, September and October, 1892, p. 259, &c. (abridged).
30 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
quarter. He felt as if he had succeeded in this ; and indeed he had suc
ceeded, as Berthe told us next day that she had been astonished to find
herself far from her lodging and her right road. But she took her revenge
at once. L., on leaving me, went after a time to his club, at about midnight.
He was there watching the play, when suddenly he felt a foreign influence ;
everything became distasteful to him ; he only stayed a few minutes, and
went home almost at a run. Next morning he told me of this experience,
and said he was sure that it was Berthe who had made him thus suddenly
change his mind. And Berthe afterwards gave me the same account, boast
ing that she had made him change his mind.
"Another time Berthe taught me how one ought to proceed in order to
make a person fall down. The method is thoroughly logical. First you
must get to know him, talk to him, impress him as much as you can, and
make him afraid of you. When he is in the street you follow behind him
and imitate his walk as closely as you can, charging him all the time. (This
was the word she used for the process, to her quite familiar, of mentally
possessing herself of someone's thoughts, and slightly hypnotising him.)
Then you must see a string stretched across the road a few steps in front of
him. You follow the movements of your victim, and then, at the moment
when he reaches the imaginary string, you yourself intentionally stumble,
and the poor man is forced to tumble down.1
" We had," he continues, " been having a stance with Berthe ; and we
prolonged it in an open carriage, where she sat between P. and myself.
It was a summer evening, near midnight, in the Quartier des Invalides.
Before entering the carriage I said to Berthe : ' Since you say that you know
how to do it, try and make M. P. lose his sense of direction, so that he may
imagine that he is turning his back on the direction in which he is really
going. Wait to do this until I give you a sign.' At a certain moment I gave
her the sign ; and after a few moments P. said to me, ' I feel very odd ;
everything round me seems turning, and I feel sick ; it is just as if I was
sea-sick.'
" Nothing further occurred, so the hallucination remained incomplete. P.
is entirely ignorant of medicine ; he knows nothing of the sense of direction,
or of the intimate connection which exists between a disturbance of this
sense and the special discomforts of which he complained. One could hardly
have a better proof of the reality of Berthe's action, or a better commentary
on the power of causing the victim to lose his way, so often attributed to
sorcerers of every country."
The production of sleep at a distance is, among the phenomena
which we have already discussed, that which bears the closest
resemblance to these unholy tricks.
What the exact mechanism of sommeil a distance may be we do not
know. We do not know whether all telepathic transmissions are of
the same type ; nor whether the typical transmission is to be regarded
as a physical transmission. On this point M. Gibotteau's experiments
are of interest :—
1 Annales, Sept., Oct., 1892, p. 258.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 31
M. 58.—" I had been reading the account of the experiments with Mme.
B. (Leonie) at Havre. I asked Berthe one day, ' Can you manage sleep at a
distance 1 ' 'Certainly,' said she, 'it is not difficult ; I have done it often
with [an experimenter whose name I forget].' 'Well then, look out, some
time to-day I will send you to sleep.' After lunching at the hospital-officers'
hall I asked a colleague to choose an hour for me at random. The hour
chosen was, I think, 2.30. When that hour came I walked up and down in
the corridor, at least 300 yards from the hall, mentally ordering Berthe to
go to sleep, as if I had been close to her. After ten minutes, it seemed to
me, I cannot say why, that I had succeeded. I walked back to the win
dow of the creche, where Berthe was, and looked in. She was asleep. I
entered. They told me that she had been asleep for ten minutes or so. She
had lain down, and they had seen her go to sleep. It was her ordinary som
nambulistic sleep—a sleep into which she sometimes fell spontaneously. I
repeated the experiment a great number of times, always choosing an hour
at random. I almost always succeeded, with occasional failures when she
was occupied in talking, or when I lacked patience. I observed that a
prolonged effort was necessary for success. It did not seem that I merely
supplied a signal at which she voluntarily sent herself to sleep ; but rather
the sleep itself seemed an effect directly and laboriously produced by my
will. I have had the same feeling in sending other subjects to sleep from a
distance.
"I tried further experiments ; I used to succeed pretty well in making
Berthe come from the crlche to the hall at my mental order. In these cases
she went to sleep first and moved forward totteringly, her eyes ecstatically
fixed. Unknown to me the head nurse forbade her to enter the hall. She
then used to walk into the garden and come up to the window nearest to
where I was at work. I tried to send her to sleep at greater distances ; for
example, from my own lodgings in the Rue des Ecdes, &c. The results were
less good, but still encouraging."
It is certainly satisfactory that among the very few efforts which,
so far as we know, have been made to repeat our Havre experiments
one series should have been thus successful. It is to be regretted, how
ever, that even an inquirer so active and so fertile in expedients as Dr.
Gibotteau should have neglected that accurate and immediate regis
tration which experiments of this kind so manifestly need.
And as regards those other and more novel experiments of Dr. Gibot-
teau's they do certainly seem to afford us sporadic examples of just the
kind which our series needs. If correctly described, they show telepathic
affections (1) of the motor system generally, (2) of the centres for
vertigo and nausea. Our argument needs both. We want to be
able to point to vague motor affections, from which our more definite
motor affections of hand or throat may be developed or specialised.
And we want as many miscellaneous organic effects of telepathy as pos
sible ;—instances of its action on special sensibilities, on the vaso-motor,
32 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
circulatory, respiratory systems, Jcc.1 We may well conjecture that
the telepathic impact may affect some sensitive internal organs,—
la vessie, ce miroir de Vdme,—and so forth. We have had at any rate
some telepathic cases of deep ccenesthetic disturbance, of a profound
malaise which must, one would think, have involved some abnormal
condition of the viscera. In Gurney's collection of " emotional and
motor effects" {Phantasms of the Living, Vol I., Chap. VII.), we find
such phrases as "a cloud of calamity which was almost a physical
feeling," " deep depression," " a dreadful feeling of illness and faint-
ness, and I felt that I was dying," " dreadful trembling with prostra
tion," " trembling, with no apparent cause whatever," " conviction that
I should die that night," and so forth. And we have, moreover, the
definite vaso-motor phenomenon of sudden weeping, which in one case
(op. cit., p. 275) is described as " hysterics " by a lady who " never
experienced a similar feeling." This attack corresponded exactly
with the sudden death of a father at a distance. We must hardly
press her phrase as implying more than a sudden, uncontrollable,
unmotived fit of weeping, though it would, of course, be specially
interesting if we could find definite hysterical symptoms originated by
a telepathic shock. Another informant (p. 277) speaks of an "extra
ordinary state of depression and restlessness ; a violent fit of weeping,
a thing quite alien to my character," as coinciding with the sudden
illness and delirium of a distant husband.
Along with these emotional or vaso-motor cases, Gurney gives some
narratives of pervading motor impulse,—" a sense of being wanted—
an impulse to go somewhere or do something." It is, of course, not easy
to get a motor impulse quite clear of intellectual impression ; since if
(for instance) a man feels a strong impulse to go home he probably also
has a strong impression that some of his family are ill. In at least one
case, however, that of Major Kobbe' ( p. 288), the percipient is
prompted to visit a distant cemetery, without any conscious reason, and
there finds his father ;—who had in fact, for certain quite unexpected
reasons, sent to his son, Major Kobh>4 a request to meet him there at
that hour ; a request which Major Kobbe' had never received.
I add a case where the object of the motor impulse was perfectly
well known, but where, nevertheless, the motor impulse itself is
described as the vivid and controlling element.
Impressions from a Distance. By Rev. C. Badger, Harvard Library,
Cambridge, Mass.
L. 957.
Two cases my experience has met in which I must recognise powerful
1 Dr. Purdon, nowof Florida, has endeavoured to show by sphygmographic tracings
the influence of an agent's thought in bringing a percipient's pulse to the same rhythm.
His tracings may be seen in the rooms of the S.P.R., but are too few to be con
vincing without further corroboration.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 33
impressions from a distance, even if one also indicated that "coming events
cast a shadow before."
Case 1.
In the summer of 1859 (I being twenty-six years of age), she whom
I was about to marry was to arrive by steamer, after two years' absence in
Europe, at New York.
The steamer was due at 12m. on Saturday, July 2nd. I had engaged to
preach in New York on Sunday the 3rd, and I was somewhat amazed when
Saturday's sunset came, and only the word from Sandy Hook, "no signs yet
of the Vanderbilt." I feared the steamer might come in during the fore
noon while I should be detained in the pulpit. Late at night I went several
miles up town to my lodging-house, having been officially assured that, late
as it then was, with no tidings, the steamer could not possibly get in before
12m. on Sunday. That assurance was perfect in my mind and gave me great
satisfaction and I fell asleep.
After a quiet night, I suddenly woke, soon after six a.m., finding myself
spring out of bed, exclaiming, " She's in, she's in ! " It was not a question
I was discussing. It was fully settled ; there was not a shadow of doubt in
my mind ; and I began dressing with all conceivable rapidity to fly to meet
her. I was alone. Anybody with me would have deemed me as good as
insane, so eager and confident was my assurance. I rushed out of the
house, across, some distance, to Broadway, and took the down town omnibus.
Wholly alone, I had time to reflect on the ridiculousness of my conduct.
My faith in my impression was somewhat shaken by the long shaking in the
slow 'bus before we reached the Astor House about 7.30 a.m. I rushed in,
however, asking at the desk, "Any news of the Vanderbilt?" "She's
coming up the Bay, sir," answered the clerk, and I rushed out with fresh
speed, moved quickly over the intervening mile, sped down the long pier,
and leapt on board just as she drew up to the dock—not pausing an instant
in my eager movement, and being the first to board her from the pier. A
moment later, I stood quietly leaning against the jamb of the upper cabin
door, gazing upon her whom I sought, who sat before me conversing with a
friend, not being aware that the steamer had drawn up to the dock, and by
no means expecting to see anybody she knew so early in the day.
I consider this a case of immediate agnition, or perception not attained
by any process of unconscious reasoning during sleep. My active mind had
previously scrutinised the facts, weighed all the probabilities, and fully
settled the conviction so far as cognition could, that the Vanderbilt, under
the then present conditions of weather, &c., could not reach her dock before
12m. on Sunday.
The two following cases, in both of which the same percipient was
concerned, come to us through the American Branch of the Society.
In the first, the conscious desire of the agent seems to have been the
predetermining cause of the percipient's impression.
L. 877. Ae P" Motor Impulse.
The percipient, Mrs. Hadselle, writes to Mr. Hodgson as follows :—
28, Bradford-street, Pittsfield, Mass., May 28th, 1888.
"Less than two years ago a curious thing happened to me. I had been
D
84 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
in Wash. Co., N.Y., giving half a dozen readings, and was on my way to
Williamstown, where I had spent a part of the summer, and where much of my
worldly goods, in the shape of wearing apparel, was safely stowed in my room
at the ' Mansion House.' With ticket purchased, I was serenely seated in
the car, 'box, bundle and bag' beside me, the conductor's ' All aboard' was
at that instant in my ears, when I sprang to my feet with the force of an
inward command, ' Change your ticket and go to Elizabeth (N.J.). Change
your ticket and go to Elizabeth. Change your ' Here a gentleman in the
opposite seat—an utter stranger—rose and said : ' Madam, have you for
gotten something, can I help you ? ' I said : ' Do you think the train will
wait for me to change my ticket 1 ' For there appeared to be no alternative.
As I spoke I moved towards the platform ; he followed, and seeing that the
office was but a few steps distant said : ' Go, I'll see that you are not left. '
I did go, and in a moment more was on my way to Elizabeth, though I had not
before even thought of such a thing. Next morning, on reaching my friend's
house, she threw her arms about me and sobbed out : ' Oh, I have wanted
you so.' Then she led me to a room where an only and beloved sister lay
in life's last battle. In an hour it was ended.
"My poor grief-stricken friend declared then—declares now—that my
sudden change of purpose was a direct answer to her repeated though
unspoken demand for my presence. And who shall say it was not ? I wish
to add that while I had learned by letter of the sister's illness of a chronic
disorder, I did not suppose her case hopeless ; indeed, from the fact that no
tidings had reached me lately, was hoping that she was on the road to
recovery, and had I been questioned concerning her that 10th of November,
1886, should have replied confidently, ' She will without doubt last through
the winter.' My friend, by the way, is, much more than I, a believer in
psychical phenomena.
" (Signed) C. A. C. Hadselle."
Mr. Hodgson writes :—
"Mrs. G.—the friend referred to—has sent me her corroboration, dated
March 5th, 1890. The date of the incident, she states, was November 11th,
1886. She says :—
" ' I had not expected Mrs. H. ; did not at that time know where she
was, so could not have summoned her had I wished to do so,—but in my
trouble there grew upon me a great desire for her presence, and I said many
times, " If she would only come. If she were only here." '
" ' My sister's failure at the last was somewhat rapid.but of this Mrs. H.
knew nothing, and when she told me of her sudden change of purpose,
hundreds of miles away, I said : "The impulse was sent you in answer to my
wish," or words to that effect." '
The gentleman who helped Mrs. Hadselle to change her ticket, the
Rev. James Wilson, then of Greenwich, N.Y., writes in answer to Mr.
Hodgson's inquiries :—
March 20th, 1890.
I recollect the circumstance of " assisting a lady " at Greenwich ticket
office, who exchanged her ticket at the last moment, because of a change of
purpose ; and it was in November, 1886. She sent me a few lines afterwards,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 35
detailing certain facts touching a sick friend at the point of her destination
—not clearly recalled at this moment.
J. T. Wilson.
L. 878. Ae Pn Impre&sion.
Mrs. Hadselle sent at the same time another narrative, of which she said :—
" I send you with this a bit of experience which I had years ago—so long
ago, indeed, as the time Dr. Holland edited the Springfield Republican.
He wrote me that the ' Warning ' was copied from Maine to California, and
that he received many letters asking if it was authentic. To this he could
safely reply, as I was an old-time contributor to that and other leading
journals. A local paper lately copied it. Many of the then witnesses have,
with Dr. Holland and my darling ' Eddie ' (Kleber Loomis Hadselle), gone
over to the ' great majority, ' but there are several still living who remember
the episode, and no one of my acquaintances doubts or thinks the sketch
overdrawn.
" The account is taken from the Berkshire County Eagle, May 10th, 1888,
Pittsfield, Mass., and is there headed ' The Unspoken Warning—A Mother's
Experience.' As above implied, the account itself is nearly contemporary
•with the incident, being here quoted from a reprint, which the author accepts
as correct :—
"One bitter cold day in winter a merry party of us, nestled down under
furry robes, went to meet an appointment with a friend living a few miles
distant, with whom we were to spend the afternoon and in the evening attend
a concert to be held near by. The sleighing was delightful, the air keen and
inspiriting, the host and hostess genial as the crackling fires in the grates,
and the invited guests, of whom there were many besides ourselves, in that
peculiar visiting trim which only old-time friends, long parted, can enjoy.
Restraint was thrown aside ; we cracked jokes ; we chattered like magpies,
and not a little of the coming concert, which promised a rare treat to our
unsophisticated ears. All went merry as a marriage bell, and merrier than
some, till just before tea, when I was seized with a sudden and unaccount
able desire to go home, accompanied by a dread or fear of something, I knew
not what, which made the return appear, not a matter of choice, but a thing
imperative. I tried to reason it away, to revive anticipations of the concert ;
I thought of the disappointment it would be to those who came with me to
give it up, and running over in my mind the condition in which things were
left at home, could find no ground for alarm.
"For many years a part of the house had been rented to a trusty family ;
our children were often rocked in the same cradle, and half of the time ate
at the same table ; locks and bolts were things unused, and in deed as in
word we were neighbours. In their care had been left a boy of ten years,
the only one of the family remaining at home, who knew that when he
returned from school he was expected to bring in wood and kindlings for the
morning fire, take supper alone, or with little Clara E., as he chose, and
otherwise pass the time as he pleased, only that he must not go into the street
to play, or on to the pond to skate. He had been left many times in this
way, and had never given occasion for the slightest uneasiness ; still, as this
nameless fear grew upon me, it took the form of a conviction that danger of
some sort threatened this beloved child.
d 2
3G Mi. F. W. H. Myers.
"I was rising to go and ask Mr. A. to take me home, when someone said,
'You are very pale ; are you ill ?' ' No,' I answered, and dropping back
in the chair, told them how strangely I had been exercised for the last few
minutes ; adding, ' I really must go home.' There was a perfect chorus of
voices against it, and for a little time I was silenced, though not convinced.
Someone laid the matter before Mr. A., who replied, "Nonsense; Eddie is a
good boy to mind, will do nothing in our absence that he would not do if we
were there, and is enjoying himself well at this moment, I'll warrant.' This,
answer was brought to me in triumph, and I resolved to do as they said,
' not to think about it.' But at tea my trembling hand almost refused to
carry food to my lips, and 1 found it utterly impossible to swallow a mouth
ful. A death-like chill crept over me, and I knew that every eye was on me
as I left the room. Mr. A. rose, saying in a changed voice and without
ceremony, ' Make haste ; bring the horse round, we must go right away.
I never saw her in such a state before ; there is something in it.' He
followed me to the parlour, but before he could speak I was pleading as for
dear life that not a moment be lost in starting for home. ' I know,' said I,
' it is not all imagination, and whether it is or not I shall certainly die, if
this dreadful incubus is not removed shortly. '
"All was now confusion ; the tea-table deserted, the mealscarco tasted ;
and my friends, alarmed as much at my looks as at my words, were as anxious
to hurry me off as they had been before to detain me. To me those terrible
moments seemed hours, yet I am assured that not more than half an hour
elapsed from the time my fears first found expression before we were on the
road toward home. A horse somewhat noted for fleetness was before us,,
and with only two in the cutter—the rest stayed to concert, and made Mr.
A. promise that if nothing had happened we would return—went over the
road at a rapid pace. I know from the frequent repetition of a peculiar
signal that the beast was being urged to his best, yet I grew sick witb
impatience at the restraint. I wanted to fly. All this while my fears had
taken no definite shape. I only knew that the child was in danger, and felt
impelled to hurry to the rescue. Only once was the silence broken in that
three-mile journey, and that was when the house was in full view. I said,
' Thank God, the house is not on fire.' ' That was my own thought,' said
Mr. A., but there was no slackening of speed.
'' On nearing home a cheerful light was glimmering from Mrs. E.'s window ;
before the vehicle had fairly stopped we were clear of it, and opening the
door, said in the same breath, ' Where's Eddie ? ' ' Eddie ? why, he was
here a little while ago,' answered Mrs. E., pleasantly striving to dissipate
the alarm she saw written on our countenances. ' He ate supper with the
children, and played awhile at marbles ; then spoke of Libby Rose having
a new picture book, and that he wanted to see it. You'll find him over
there.' With swift steps Mr. A. crossed the street to the place mentioned,
but returned with ' Ho has not been there.' Eddie was remarkably fond of
skating, and my next thought was that he had been tempted to disobedience.
I said calmly, ' We will go to the pond.' I was perfectly collected ; I could
have worked all night without fatigue with the nerves in that state of ten
sion ; but Mr. A. said, 'No, you must go in and lie down. Eddie is safe
The Subliminal Consciousness. 37
enough, somewhere about the village. I'll go and find him.' But there
was nothing in the tone as in the words to reassure me.
" As he spoke he crossed the hall to our own room and turned the knob.
The door was locked. What could that mean 1 Eddie was either on the
inside or had taken the key away with him. Mr. A. ran round to a window
with a broken spring which could be opened from the outside. It went up
with a clang, but a dense volume of smoke drove him back. After an
instant another attempt was made, and this time, on a lounge directly under
the window, he stumbled on the insensible form of little Eddie, smothered
in smoke. Limp and apparently lifeless, he was borne into the fresh cold
air, and after some rough handling was restored to consciousness.
"Eddie said, on returning from school, he made a good fire, and as the
wood was snowy thought he would put it in the oven to dry ; something he
had never done before. Then on leaving Mrs. E. 's room he went in for an
apple before going to see Libby Rose's picture book, and it seemed so nice
and warm he thought he would lie down awhile. He could give no explana
tion as to what prompted him to turn the key : it was the first and last time ;
but this could have made no difference in the result, for no one would have
discovered the smoke in time to save his life. The wood in the oven was
burned to ashes, but as the doors were closed there was no danger of falling
embers setting the house on fire ; and had we stayed to the concert every
thing-would have been as when we left, except that little Eddie's voice would
never more have made music for our ears. Everyone said that with a delay
t>f five or even three minutes we should have been too late.
(Signed) " Mrs. C. A. C. Hadselle."
In reply to inquiries, Mrs. Hadselle informed Mr. Hodgson that the
event took place about 1854, Eddie being then nine or ten years old. Mr.
A. is no longer living, but the lady at whose house the party met, on being
asked by Mrs. Hadselle what she could remember of the circumstances,
Albany, N.Y., January 6th, 1891.
"I remember distinctly the incident described by Mrs. Hadselle in her
sketch, ' An Unspoken Warning.' It was at my house that the little party
gathered for the old-fashion afternoon visit and tea. I remember well her
strange condition, arising from anxiety over the child, which had been left
At home. The statement made by her I believe to be true.
" M. W. Rogers.'
These cases show in intimate connection general malaise, motor
impulse, and auditory hallucination. In the case next to be cited,
Lady de Vesci described to me in conversation a similar malaise,
defining itself into the urgent need of action,—namely, of sending a
greeting to the friend then dying at the other side of the world. Such
an impulse was unique in her experience.
May 24th, 1891.
L. 885.
" Madame X. was a very remarkable woman, and I was most deeply
attached to her. She had had great troubles and difficulties in her life, an
unhappy marriage, and two sons who were entirely educated by her.
38 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
When they came to London as clerks in the City she followed them to make
a home for them there ; but as one was soon sent out to work at Hong-Kong
and the other to a business at Bahia, she sought employment for herself in
London and came to us as governess in 1864. In 1869 she became ill, and
spent the winter alone at Bournemouth. She and I wrote constantly to
each other, and when she moved to Norwood for the summer of 1870 my
eldest brother and I went often to spend long afternoons with her. He died
that summer, and although she had not left her sofa for months she came
at once to see me when she heard of our great sorrow ; the doctor said he
had never seen such an indomitable spirit as she showed through her illness,
and when in the spring of 1871 Sir J. Burrows told her that she had not
many months to live she resolved to go out to Hong-Kong and see her
eldest son once more. It was not thought that she would survive the
voyage. Our deep love for each other was unchangeable, and this final fare
well was a great grief to us both. She reached Hong-Kong and spent the
last 18 months of her life with her son there. I heard from her by every mail.
"In 1872 I married, and shortly afterwards we were quartered at the
Curragh. It was from there that I sent the telegram which she received less
than 24 hours before her death. Until 2 years ago I had in my possession a
few faint lines written by her on blue foreign paper, saying she had received
my message and that her ' fever dreams ' were filled with memories of our
happy days together at Cannes and elsewhere. Her son is now dead. He
came to see me in '76 and told mo that my telegram had made his mother
very happy.
"The impulse that made me communicate with her on that particular day
was a very strong one. It came to me suddenly and not in consequence of any
increased anxiety from news received. On the contrary, the accounts were
quite satisfactory. I had heard from her by the mail a few days before. I
asked my husband to go with me to the Curragh Post office, as I wished to
find out the cost of a telegram to China, and he accompanied me to the Post-
office and we were told it would cost £5 to send 12 words or so, I think. I
at once wrote and sent the message containing a few words of loving greet
ing. These words she received and acknowledged only a few hours before
her death. Evelyn de Vesci."
Lord de Vesci adds :—
'' I certify that the account given by Lady de Vesci is correct and accurate.
" De Vesci."
June 2nd, 1891.
This special sensibility to the motor element in an impulse recalls
to us the special susceptibilities to different forms of hallucination or
suggestion shown by different hypnotic subjects. Some can be made
to see, some to hear, some to act out the conception proposed to them.
In a recent paper 1 Dr. Btrillon has even shown that certain subjects
who seem at first quite refractory to hypnotisation are nevertheless at
once obedient, even in the waking state, to a motor suggestion.
This was the case both with a very strong man, with weak men and
1 Revue de VMypnotiame, March, 1893, p. 2G8.
The Subliminal Consciousness.
women, and with at least one subject actually suffering from loco
motor ataxy. It would seem, then, that sometimes a loss of motor
control may predispose to motor suggestibility. On the other hand,
a specially well-developed motor control may predispose in a similar
way ;—as for instance, the subject who can sing already is more easily
made to sing by suggestion. We must, then, await further observa
tions before we can pretend to say beforehand with which autom-
atist the messages will take a sensory, and with which a motor form.
Still less can we explain the special predisposition of each experi
menter to one or more of the common kinds of motor automatism,
—as automatic speech, automatic writing, table movements, raps, and
so forth. These forms of message may themselves be variously com
bined ; and the contents of a message of any one of these kinds may
be purely dream-like and fantastic, or may be veridical in various
ways.
Let us enumerate the modes of subliminal motor message as nearly
as we can in order of their increasing specialisation.
1. We may place first the massive motor impulses (like Major
Kobbe's) of which mention has already been made, and which mark a
kind of transition between coenesthetic affections and motor impulses
proper. There was here no impulse to special movement of any limb ;
but an impulse to reach a certain place by ordinary methods.
2. Next, perhaps, in order of specialisation come the simple sub
liminal muscular impulses which give rise to table-tilting and similar
phenomena.
3. Musical execution, subliminally initiated, might theoretically be
placed next ; although definite evidence of this is hard to obtain,
since the threshold of consciousness with musical performers is
notoriously apt to be shifting and indefinite. ("When in doubt, play
with your fingers, and not with your head.")1
4. Next we may place automatic drawing and painting. This
curious group of messages has but seldom a telepathic content, and
may be better considered hereafter in connection with other non-
telepathic forms of subliminal faculty.
5. Next comes automatic writing, on which much has been said in
previous papers, and much remains to be said here.
6. Automatic speech, which would not seem to be per se a more
developed form of motor message than automatic script, is often
accompanied by profound changes of memory or of personality which
raise the question of " inspiration " or " possession " ;—for the two
words, however different their theological import, mean much the same
1 The often-cited case of "Blind Tom" (a semi-idiotic negro of extraordinary
musical gift) will be better dealt with later in connection with the phenomena of
trance.
40 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
thing from the standpoint of experimental psychology. Much has been
said on this subject in connection with Mrs. Piper's trances ; and since
those trances still continue it is hoped that the topic may be dealt
with again before long.
7. I must conclude my list with a class of motor phenomena which
I shall in this present paper merely record in passing, without attempt
ing any explanation. I allude to raps, and to those telekinetic move
ments of objects whose real existence is still matter of controversy.
Comparing this list of motor automatisms with the sensory
automatisms enumerated in Chap. V., we shall find a certain general
tendency running through each alike. The sensory automatisms began
with vague unspecialised sensations. They then passed through a phase
of definition, of specialisation on the lines of the known senses. And
finally they reached a stage beyond these habitual forms of
specialisation :—beyond them, as of wider reach, and including in an
apparently unanalysable act of perception a completer truth than any
of our specialised forms of perception could by itself convey. With
motor messages, too, we begin with something of similar vagueness.
They, too, develop from modifications of the percipient's general organic
condition, or ccenesthesia ; and the first dim telepathic sense apparently
hesitates between several channels of expression. They then pass
through various definitely specialised forms ; and finally, as we shall see
when automatic script is considered, they, too, merge into an unan
alysable act of cognition in which the motor element of the message
has disappeared.
But these motor messages point also in two other even more perplex
ing directions. They lead, as I have said above, towards the old idea
of possession;—using the word no longer in an unfavourable sense,
but simply as an expression for some form of temporary manifestation
of two veritably distinct and alien personalities through the self-same
physical organism. And they appear to lead also to another class of
phenomena in which (just as in " possession" ) the influence at work,
instead of becoming more and more identified with the automatist's
conscious thought, appears to become more and more markedly dis
tinguished from it. I allude to telekinesis, or hyperboulia, or whatever
name we may decide to give to effects apparently exercised in the
automatist's presence, but not through his normal agency, upon the
physical world.
These two last named topics, so-called " possession," and so-called
" telekinetic phenomena," although unavoidably mentioned here, must
be reserved for fuller description in a subsequent chapter. It will be
enough for the present to consider motor messages as running parallel
to sensory messages ;—as covering much the same ground, and pre
The Subliminal Consciousness. 41
senting the old problems as to their source and initiation in an in
structively different light.
I will, then, briefly recount what seem to be the conceivable
origins of written and other messages,—which messages, be it said,
usually profess, with more or less insistence, to come from some de
parted spirit. Such assertion is no proof ; and judging by their
definite contents alone, we may arrange the messages in the following
classes.
A. In the first place, the message may come from the percipient's
own mind ; its contents being supplied from the resources of his
ordinary memory, or of his more extensive subliminal memory ; while
the dramatisation of the message,—its assumption of some other mind
as its source,—-will resemble the dramatisations of dream or of hypnotic
trance.
Of course the absence of facts unknown to the writer is not in
itself a proof that the message does not come from some other mind.
We cannot be sure that other minds, if they can communicate, will be
at the pains to fill their messages with evidential facts. But, equally
of course, a message devoid of such facts must not, on the strength of
its mere assertions, be claimed as the product of any but the writer's
own mind.
B. Next above the motor messages whose content the automatist's
own mental resources might supply, we may place the messages whose
content seems to be derived telepathically from the mind of some other
person still living on earth ; that person being either conscious or
unconscious of transmitting the suggestion.
G. Next comes the possibility that the message may emanate
from some unembodied intelligence of unknown type,—other, at any
rate, than the intelligence of the alleged agent. Under this heading
come the views which ascribe the messages on the one hand to
" elementaries," or even devils, and on the other hand to "guides "
or " guardians " of superhuman goodness and wisdom.
D. Finally we have the possibility that the message may be derived,
in a more or less direct manner, from the mind of the agent,—the
departed friend,—from whom the communication does actually claim
to come.
Let us consider each of these possibilities in turn.
A. My main effort has naturally been thus far directed to the
proof that there are messages which do not fall into this lowest class,
—in which class most psychologists would still place them all. And I
myself,—while reserving a certain small portion of the messages for
my other classes,—do not only admit but assert that the great major
ity of such communications represent the subliminal workings of the
automatist's mind alone. It does not, however, follow that such
42 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
messages have for us no interest or novelty. On the contrary, they
form an instructive, an indispensable transition from psychological
introspection of the old-fashioned kind to the bolder methods on
whose validity I am anxious to insist. The mind's subliminal action,
as thus revealed, differs from the supraliminal in ways which no one
anticipated, and which no one can explain. There seem to be
subliminal tendencies setting steadily in certain obscure directions,
and bearing as little relation to the individual characteristics of the
person to the deeps of whose being we have somehow penetrated as
profound ocean-currents bear to waves and winds on the surface of the
sea.1
Is this indeed the drift of the Zeitgeist, as Professor James
suggests, steady beneath the tossings and tumblings of individual man ?
Or is it something independent of age or season? Is there some
pattern in the very fabric of our nature which begins to show when
ever we scratch the glaze off the stuff?
All this may be better considered hereafter, apart from the
evidential discussions with which this chapter must be mainly
concerned.
Another point also, of fundamental importance, connected with the
powers of the subliminal self, will be better deferred until a later chapter.
I have said that a message containing only facts normally known to
the automatist must not, on the strength of its mere assertions, be
regarded as proceeding from any mind but his own. This seems
evident ; but the converse proposition is not equally indisputable.
We must not take for granted that a message which does contain facts
not normally known to the automatist must therefore come from some
mind other than his own. If the subliminal self can acquire super
normal knowledge at all, it may obtain such knowledge by means other
than telepathic impressions from other minds. It may assimilate its
supernormal nutriment also by a directer process,—it may devour it
not only cooked but raw. Parallel with the possibilities of reception of
such knowledge from the influence of other embodied or disembodied
minds lies the possibility of its own clairvoyant perception, or active
1 See James's Psychology, Vol. I., p. 394: "One curious thing about trance
utterances is their generic similarity in different individuals. ... It seems
exactly as if one author composed more than half of the trance messages, no matter by
whom they were uttered. Whether all sub-conscious selves are peculiarly susceptible
to a certain Btratum of the Zeitgeist, and get their inspiration from it, I know not."
See the account of automatic and impressional script, by Mr. Sidney Dean, which
Professor James goes on to quote, and which is closely parallel to (for instance)
Miss A.'» case, to be given below, although the one series of messages comes from
the hand of a late member of Congress, "all his life a robust and active journalist,
author, and man of affairs," and the other from a young lady with so different a
history and entourage.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 43
absorption of some kind, of facts lying indefinitely beyond its supra
liminal purview. This possibility must be kept in sight throughout ;
but our easiest plan will be to defer its discussion until we have, in this
chapter, reviewed the evidence so far as it makes for the influence of
different orders of mind external to the automatist.
B. We may proceed, therefore, to those motor messages which seem
to indicate the telepathic influence upon the automatist of other still
embodied minds. Messages of this kind have been dealt with at
various stages of our past work. The transferences of diagrams of
which we have from time to time given examples sometimes contained a
motor as well as a visual element;—the percipient feeling an impulse to
draw, as well as discerning a "mind's eye" sketch of the diagram onwhich
the agent was gazing. Again, a case, contributed by Dr. Liebeault,where
automatic writing announces the death of a distant person, is regarded
by Gurney as a motor message transmitted in the last moments of the
decedent's earth-life.1 But our leading instance of this kind is
undoubtedly the long series of communications between the Rev. P. H.
and Mrs. Newnham, which we have already cited at so mueh length
that I need not repeat them here.2 These experiments, which date
back to 1871 and whose contemporaneous written record is preserved
in the archives of the S.P.R., must, I think, always retain their
primacy as early and trustworthy examples of a telepathic transference
where the percipient's automatic script answers questions penned by
the agent in such a position that the percipient could not in any
normal manner discern what those questions were. No part of our
evidence seems to me more worthy of study than this.
In the Newnham case we have the advantage of seeing before us the
entire series of questions and answers, and thus of satisfying ourselves
that the misses (which in that case are very few) are marked as well
as the hits, and consequently that the coincidences between question
and answer are at any rate not the result of chance. In several other
cases which I have known, where the good faith of the informants has
been equally above question, the possibility of an explanation by chance
alone has been a more important element in the problem. All our evi
dence has tended to show that the telepathic power itself is a variable
thing ; that it shows itself in flashes, for the most part spontaneously, and
seldom persists through a series of deliberate experiments. And if an
automatist possessing power of this uncertain kind has exercised it at
irregular moments and with no scientific aim ;—and has kept, more
over, no steady record of success and failure ;—then it becomes difficult
to say that even some brilliant coincidences afford cogent proof of
1 Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., p. 293.
* Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., p. 63; Proceedings, S.P.R., Vol. III., p. 8.
44> Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
telepathic action. The case which I am about to cite presents these
drawbacks ; but it presents also positive points of interest and
corroborations of memory quite sufficient, I think, to justify me in
laying it before my readers as an example of telepathy acting—not just
in the way in which we should like it to act, but in the way in which
it apparently does act ;—and with that strange intercurrence, moreover,
which we so often find of something like clairvoyance and premonition
mingling with the reflection of thoughts which pass through minds in
rapport with the automatist's.
The following account, dated Thornes House, Wakefield, January
30th, 1893, is signed by Lady Mabel Howard ; her husband, Mr.
Henry Howard, of Greystoke Castle, Westmoreland, attesting the
facts which lie within his cognisance. Some corroborations, and
some comments of my own, are added in brackets.
M. Aut. 59.
" 1. I began to write automatically every now and then when a young girl,
as some relations of mine were in the habit of doing so. I do not, however,
remember any of the messages until I was eighteen, when one day a girl
friend asked me as a joke, ' Who wished to marry her ? ' My pencil wrote
two initials which had no meaning for me. The girl was very angry, as
though the writing implied that she was fated to marry this man. She told
me nothing ; hut some years afterwards a man with these initials told me
that he had wished to marry this lady at just that time." [The transference
of an idea latent in the agent's mind—to the exclusion of the idea which he
itrishcs to have transferred—is, of course, a frequent phenomenon in these
experiments.]
"2. Some time after my marriage (1885) there was a burglary at Netherby
Hall, in Cumberland, a few valuable jewels being stolen. The robbers
were caught three or four days later, but the jewels were not found. Next
Sunday [apparently November 1st, 1885, see below], I was asked by some
friends to write where the jewels were. I wrote, ' In the river, under
the bridge at Tebay.' This was very unlikely, and had never been sug
gested, so far as I know, by anyone. Everyone laughed at this ; but
the jewels were found there." [The Hon. Mrs. C. J. Cropper, of Tolson
Hall, Kendal, corroborates as follows, in February, 1893: "We were
staying at Greystoke just after the capture of the Netherby burglars, and
some questions about the burglary were answered by Lady Mabel's pencil.
I am absolutely certain that in answer to the question ' Where are the
jewels ? ' the pencil wrote ' In the river.' I think that in answer to a further
question it added 'Under the bridge,' but I am not so certain of this. I
am perfectly certain that it went on to say that the fourth man, who never
was caught, was then ' in Carlisle ' and that it also gave his name. (The
fourth man was some time after suspected to have been a local man.—M. H.)
My husband, who was also present, is quite sure about the words ' under
the bridge.'—Edith E. Cropper."]
[From the Carlisle Express and Esximiner, October 31st, 1885, it appears
that two of the burglars were captured at Tebay Station. The guard saw them
The Subliminal Consciousness. 45
conceal themselves in a truck, and telegraphed in advance for assistance.
The third man escaped, but seems to have crept back to the train, for he was
subsequently caught at Lancaster, as he was quickly making for a London
train. It was not in the least known where the jewels were (a fourth man
having got away), and the finding of the first jewel near Tebay Station, close
to the water side (reported in same paper November 7th), was accidental.
This discovery, of course, caused search to be made in the river, where the
jewels were found "near the railway bridge," more than a month later. (Same
paper, December 19th.) There can, I think, be no doubt that the writing
was on November 1st. Lady Mabel Howard, writing from Lyulph's Tower,
Penrith, May 5th, 1893, is quite certain of this : " It was immediately after
the men were caught, and before any jewel at all was found. This all will
assert—the Bullers, Croppers, my brother and husband—for all five of us
were local people, and looking out for every fresh detail about it, and only
the capture had taken place when the pencil wrote."]
"3. On the same night I wrote that my sister would be engaged to be
married in September, 1887. At the end of September, 1887, she became
engaged to a gentleman of whom there had been no idea at the time." [It
is, of course, conceivable that the prediction, known to this lady, may have
influenced the date of the event.]
"4. At nearly the same date some connections of mine who had let a house,
the lease of which was expiring, were expecting to hear whether any damage
had been done, but did not speak of any particular possibility. I wrote
that nothing was injured except a particular table in a particular spot.
Next day they heard that this particular table, and this alone, had been
injured.
[Miss Buller corroborates and expands this statement as follows :—
"36, Green-street, Park-lane, W., April 26th, 1893.
'' The following incident happened when I was staying at Greystoke more
than a dozen years ago [discrepancy as to date], but I have often told the
story since, and to the best of my recollection the facts were these :—
'' On being asked what damage our tenants had done,Lady Mabel Howard'*
pencil replied: 'They have broken the table and a chair,' and added,
' the table has been mended. ' On reaching our house and asking the same
question of our housemaid, she replied that a table in the drawing-room (the
only one of its kind) had been broken, but had been mended, and one of the
kitchen chairs had been broken. Nothing else in the way of furniture had
been injured.
" Henrietta J. Buller."]
"5. Shortly afterwards I went for some winter months to St. Moritz. For
some reason or other the answers were particularly good there. One day, a
lady living in quite a different part of the huge hotel, and on the fourth
floor, while we were on the first floor, missed a valuable object which she
had bought as a prize for tobogganing. I knew nothing of the circumstances,
but my hand wrote that the object had been taken by a light-haired young
waiter called Richard. I knew of no such waiter, as he had nothing to do
with our part of the hotel. But on mentioning this answer to the lady in
question she said that there was in fact a young light-haired waiter called
Richard who waited on her floor ; and that she had suspected him. My
4G Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
hand had written where the object was hidden ; but the lady would not have
search made.
"6. A Mr. Huth, who was staying at our hotel, was leaving the next day
for Paris, and had arranged to dine the day after with a friend, a young doctor
attached to the Embassy in Paris, from whom he had just received an invi
tation. He asked me to predict something about his journey. My hand
wrote words to this effect : ' You will have an accident on your journey ;
and you will not see your friend, and you cannot see him. ' He derided this,
as the arrangement with the friend had just been made. As he went to Chur
next day by sleigh his sleigh was overturned, and his journey was thus
delayed for a day. When he got to Paris he found that his friend was dead.'*
Mr. Huth independently corroborates and adds to this account as
follows :—
Oakfield Lodge, Huddersfield, April 16th, 1893.
"In March, 1889, I was staying at St. Moritz (Engadine), where I met
with a very serious accident tobogganing. Although still crippled I decided to
return home, and on the morning of my departure the weather was brilliantly
fine. I asked Lady Mabel Howard's pencil, more in joke than anything else,
what sort of a journey I should have. The pencil promptly replied that I
should have an awful journey and meet with an accident. I then asked
whether I should meet and dine with any friend in Paris. I asked this
question because I had arranged to dine with a friend of mine, a Dr. Davies,
who was living there, to talk over some theatricals he was to get up at the
British Embassy. The pencil at once replied that I should neither meet nor
dine with anyone I knew. Knowing of my arrangement and incredulous as
to this reply, I repeated my question, with the same result. I then asked
what day I should get back to England, having decided in my own mind to
return on the Friday. The pencil at once answered ' On Thursday. '
"On the summit of the Julier Pass the weather suddenly changed from
bright sunshine to a perfect hurricane of wind, snow and sleet, which com
pletely blinded us, and the snow was so thick we could not see ten yards in
front of us. Our driver missed the track, the sleigh upset, and we were all
thrown out on to the snow,and it was three hours before we were in compara
tive safety. On my arrival in Paris I found no word from my friend Dr.Davies
and on inquiry at his rooms I learnt that he had died from typhoid fever ten
days previously. I neither dined with nor met anyone I knew whilst in Paris,
and I returned to England a day sooner than I had intended in consequence
of my friend's death, and it was only upon my arrival in London that I
remembered it was Thursday, the day foretold by the pencil.
" Harry Huth."
"7. In 1888 another girl friend of mine asked when she was to be engaged
to be married. My hand wrote : 'In March, 1890.' She became engaged
in that month to a man of whom there had been no idea at the time. [The
lady in question, Mrs. Lawson, writing from Greystoke Castle, February,
1893, confirms and enlarges this statement as follows : "I was at Greystoke
in February, 1888, and Lady Mabel Howard was writing with her pencil,
which said that I should be engaged to be married in March, 1890, and it also
said that I should not be married until the following year. I wis engaged to
The Subliminal Consciousness. 47
he married on March 27th, 1890, and it was all settled that I should be
married within six weeks ; but most unforeseen circumstances arose, and my
,marriage did not take place until April, 1891.—Camilla Lawson."]
" 8. I have never tried experiments in thought-transference, such as those
recorded in the S.P.R. Proceedings. But I have no doubt that words and
ideas do pass without speech from my husband's mind into mine. I have
specially remarked this apropos of bye-elections, when I feel certain that
I have never consciously known the names of the candidates. Many times
my hand has written those names (when known to him) truly, and some
times it has predicted results of elections with an accuracy which seemed to
both of us not to be the result of chance. In one case, where a gentleman
named Nanney was standing, of whom I was quite sure that I had never
heard, my hand kept writing ' Goat, Goat. ' In this case my husband was
not present, but someone else who was present knew the name.—Mabel
Howard."
"Correct, as far as I am concerned.—Henry Howard."
[These last instances must, according to our canons of evidence, be
reckoned merely as revivals of subliminal memory. Names which have
"been printed in newspapers which have been lying about must be taken as
having possibly fallen within the field of at least unconscious vision. The
emergence of an unconsciously observed name Nanney in the grotesque
form Goat would thus be parallel to the emergence of the unconsciously
observed word Bouillon in the grotesque form Verbascum Thapsus, mentioned
in Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 455.]
9. Writing later, from P Park, April 18th, 1893, Lady Mabel adds :
" The H. girls asked what entertainment they should go to directly on
arriving in London. The pencil answered, 'Lady C This puzzled us
all, as no one knew of an entertainment to be given next week. At last,
as it continued writing 'Lady C.,' we gave it up, thinking it must mean
dining at home, Lady C. meaning [their mother]. That very evening, 8
hours after, a letter arrived from [Lady W. G.] saying Lady Carrington
wished to know if the H.'s could dance the minuet at her house on the 27th.
They will arrive in London on the 25th." [From a later letter it appears
that the Ladies H. knew that this engagement impended, but believed that
it would be much later in the season, " and were much surprised themselves
at receiving the letter."]
10. I have myself [F.W.H.M.] succeeded in getting two correct answers
to questions absolutely beyond Lady Mabel's knowledge. I was asked to
luncheon at the house of a gentleman whom I knew only by correspondence,
and of whose home and entourage the rest of the party knew absolutely
nothing. On my return I asked, " How many people sat down to luncheon 1 "
The answer was " Six," which was right. " What was the name of the gentle
man, not my host, with whom I sat and talked after luncheon 1 " The pencil
wrote MO, and then began to scrawl. The name was Moultrie. It was impos
sible that Lady Mabel should have had any kind of notion that a gentleman of
that name would have been present in a group of which she knew nothing
whatever. But here the impulse to write seemed spent, and a few
further questions were answered by erroneous words or mere scrawls.
11. The following statement, dated Downes, Crediton, Devonshire,
48 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
April 8th, 1893, is signed by Sir Redvers Buller, K.C.B., and by Miss-
Dorothy Howard (daughter of Lady Audrey Buller). "Lady Mabel Howard
was stopping with us this week. She was writing with her pencil just after
arriving. Someone asked : '.Where is Don 1 ' The pencil immediately
answered, 'He is dead.' Lady Mabel then asked who Don was, and was
told that he was a dog. No one in the room knew that he was dead ; but
on inquiry the next day, it was found that it was so. One of the party then
asked how many fish would be caught in the river the next day. The pencil
at once wrote three, which was the number obtained the next day.
" A little girl in the house, who attends a school in London, asked who was
her greatest friend at this school. The pencil answered Mary, which was
again a fact absolutely unknown to Lady Mabel.
"Dorothy E. Howard.
"Redvers Buller."]
I defer for the present any discussion of the elements of clair
voyance and precognition which these incidents apparently contain. I
quote the case as one where thought-transference from the living seems
to play at least a considerable part in supplying the contents of the
messages.
I pass on to two cases where an actual conversation goes on
between the distant agent and the automatist, informing the automatist
of matters which the agent—consciously or unconsciously—wishes him
to know. The first of these cases was printed in the S.P.R.
Journal for July, 1888, but is now published for the first time.
Evidentially it is not strong, for it depends upon a single memory,
corroborated on one collateral point alone (although not invalidated
upon any point) ; and the writer was not personally known to any of
us. The date is also very remote. On the other hand the reasons for
the absence of corroboration seem satisfactory ; and in my view at least
the narrative offers internal evidence of honesty and care, while the
incident is such as might stamp itself permanently on the mind.
' Mrs. Kirby wrote to me from Santa Cruz, California, August 13th,
1886, as follows :—
M. Aut. 60.
' ' In 1850 I left New York for San Francisco. Spiritualism, in the sense
in which that word is now used, had no existence. The facts and philosophy
it covers were unknown, except partially to the very few readers of Sweden-
borg's cumbrous and involved theology.
"Attention had been called to some rappings which had made themselves
heard in a house in Rochester, N. Y., and there had been some violent
demonstrations (breaking of windows, moving of furniture, and unlocking:
of locked drawers and doors) in the house of an orthodox clergyman some
where in Connecticut.
" In 1853 I was living on a ranche three miles from what is now the city
of Santa Cruz. (It was but a village then, though they called it a town.)
My family consisted of my husband, myself, and in a certain sense, of a
young English sailor, a healthy, kind-hearted, and very decent, though very
The Subliminal Consciousness. 49
ignorant fellow, whom my husband had employed to work on the ranche
during the previous year. His name was Thomas Travers, and he had just
made his mark ( x ) to a written agreement for another year's service. As it
will be seen, I had no servant, but Tom stood ready to help me in any way
he could. For instance, when, at intervals of weeks, visitors would make
their appearance, he would immediately kill and clean some chickens for me.
(If you wanted beef-steak in those days you could only have it by killing an
ox. The nearest neighbours sometimes combined and took a quarter each.)
" On one occasion the two most intelligent men in town came out, a Dr.
McLean and the Rev. — Dryden, and they presently asked me if I had a
small table I could let them have (while I was busy, and my husband a mile
offat his tannery), with which they could continue some strange experiments
that had lately been made among our mutual friends in town. Spirits tipped
the table, and they said sentences were spolled by the use of the alphabet.
The A's and B's had in this way heard of their long since departed
children, &c., &c.
" I listened eagerly. I had left a large circle of friends at the East, and
here was not one of the old kind : Lucretia Mott, Lucy Stone, Garrison,
Purvis. A view of the entire bay of Monterey from my sitting-room window
did not prevent me from longing continually for a little of the old sympathy.
One of my most devoted friends had a few years since passed to the
other shore ; my young brother was there too. If I could establish commu
nication with them what a relief, what a pleasure it would be to me !
" My smallest table was in size 3|ft. by ljft. My husband was willing to
test the matter, and as we were given to understand that three or four
persons together would be more likely to succeed than two (since magnetism
or electricity was drawn from them by the invisibles to help in accomplishing
their object), Mr. K. went out to Tom's shanty and asked him to come and
sit at the table with us.
" We had not held our hands one moment on the table before it tipped very
decidedly, and I forthwith proceeded to repeat the alphabet. The doing so,
however, struck me as worse than ridiculous ; it was very unpleasant, too,
and I observed that if spirits were present they could hear me say the letters
in my mind as well as if they were uttered from my tongue.
" ' All right. Go ahead ! ' my husband replied, ' we will sit and wait
for results.'
"I did so, and the table tipped promptly to the letters, spelling out—
" 'Mary Howells.'
" As / knew no such person, I asked if she was a friend of Mr. K.'s?
Answer: 'No.' Of Tom's? Answer: 'Yes.' A relation of his? Answer:
'Sister.' Are you married ? I questioned. Answer: 'No.'
" ' Oh, don't let us waste any more time !' I exclaimed. 'It's all false
hood and nonsense. Here is someone professing to be Tom's sister who
says her name is Mary Howells, and that she is unmarried. If this wore true
of course her name would be Travers.'
" Tom nodded aside to me and said in a low tone—
"'Yes, mum. That's her name. Mary Howells.'
"He looked extremely confused and astonished.
" ' Why, what do you mean ? ' Mr. K. broke in ; ' your name is Travers,,
how can hers be Howells ? '
I
50 Mr. F. W. H. Myera.
" ' No, sir,' Tom replied, looking down, ' my name is Howells.'
"But Mr. K. insisted that it could not be. Had he not made his mark
, after the Travers only the other day ? Five minutes were taken up in the
attempt to convince Tom that he did not know his own name.
" ' You see, sir,' he at length explained, ' I ran away from a whale ship
in San Francisco, and sailors is so scarce there I was afraid they would hunt
me up and take me back, so I just took another name.'
" Hardly convinced now, Mr. K. advised him to drop the alias at once,
assuring him that no one would molest him. This he did, and the second
year following married, and he is now the father of 12 girls and three boys
who bear the strangely discovered name.
" But to return. Finding that the communication had been so far correct
I proposed that we should compose ourselves while I repeated the alphabet
as before, still hoping to receive the name of my dear friend. But Tom's
sister had not accomplished her purpose, and she proceeded to spell the
following words :— ^T^t~MC^^
fingers of one hand by those of the other, looked up and observed :—
"'Yes, mum, that's so. She's seven now.'
" When I gave him the rest of the message he became much excited, and
begged me to assure his sister that he would send home 50dol. the next
month, and have the child removed to a better place, and that as soon as the
crops were in he would go home and get the child.
" I assured him she could hear all he was saying.
" ' But is it true that there is a street called Cat-street ? ' I asked.
" ' Yes, mum ; and it is the worst in the city,' he returned.
" The following day he acknowledged to me that his sister was a woman
of the town.
'' I now asked my husband to procure me a smaller and lighter table so that
I might sit at it by myself and in that way be more likely to attract my own
friends. This he did, but to my great annoyance, Mary Howells imme
diately presented herself. This time, however, she came to say that her
child was ill. When she left the movements of the table were weak and
uncertain.
" The following evening, she came to say that the child was much worse,
and she thought it would die. A day or two later she reported it dead. I
asked if the child were now with her, and she replied by very decided move
ments, that she uxu iwt.
" After this, Mary Howells never put in an appearance, and every day I
prayed that someone I loved might speak.a word to me. They did not. I
know now that they could not, for want of the honest sailor's electrical help,
which I rejected in my ignorance. Seafaring persons are apt to possess
great mediumistic power.
lars/iild,' I began,
rtfteble, and counting on the
years—old —and—now
Wet. —I—want—my—
and I told Tom that I
The Subliminal Consciousness, 51
"After hearing that the child was dead I wrote a guarded letter to Tom's
parents, for him, asking how they all were, including the little girl. In due
time I received a reply, or, I should say, Tom did, though he could not read
writing. They said they were all well except Mary's little girl, who had
died. (They did not say exactly when, hut as Tom had not been absent
from England much over a year, it must have been within that time, and we
had every reason to believe the mother's statement a true one.) The old
people further said that Mary had married a soldier.
" I understood from this that the child's mother was not wholly depraved,
that she was concerned about the welfare of her little one, and looking about
for help in her destitute circumstances her thoughts had turned to her
brother, most likely persistently turned to him, and this resulted in her
leaving her body temporarily during sleep in search of him. We had assumed
that she was, as we say, ' dead.' She had not asserted the fact.
" I submit this one experience and will write out another as soon as I
can.—Very truly yours, .' , " " Georgiana B. Kirby."
A second letter from Mrs. Kirby, dated Santa Cruz., Cal., October 12th,
1886, gave further particulars, as follows :— '., ,
"Dear Sir,—Yours of September 9th arrived in due season. My reply
has been delayed by my ineffectual efforts to ascertain the month when our
two friends, McLean and Dryden, visited us on the ranche, because it was
within a month after this that Mary" Hbwells told me her child was ill, and
later that she was dead, and I thought it might not be so difficult to search
the death record of one month for the child under the head of ' Howells. '
As it is the gentlemen have proved to me that their visit occurred in 1852,
and not in 1853 as I had supposed, but they could not remember if it were
the spring or fall of that year. This, our ignorance of the date of the death
and of the child's Christian name, is the most unsatisfactory part of my
record. Neither were mentioned in the grandfather's letter, and from Tom
never mentioning the name I fancied he did not know it. I saw him
recently, but I could not venture to speak to him of his sister's illegitimate
child. He has 12 living daughters of his own, and he would be justly
offended if I should remind him of how we had gained a knowledge of his
sister's life. He told us that his father was still alive and living where they
always had lived, at Saltash, which he thought by this time must be a
part of Plymouth.
" I should explain that neither Dr. McLean nor the Rev. — Dryden were
personally cognisant of our doings, so that they could not act as witnesses in
the case.
"You ask if I can point you to any contemporary record. Thirty-four
years ago no Spiritualistic paper was published in the United States, and such
a narration given as true in any ordinary journal would have laid us open to
the charge of lunacy. And had this been otherwise, we could not have
proclaimed the fact that the sister of the honest fellow who was working for
us was a disreputable woman.
" As to fraud on Tom's part, he could hardly understand why we wanted
him to sit with his hands on the table. I repeated the letters in my mind.
How could he tip the table at the right instant so as to spell words which
disclosed his sister's disgrace ? Then he was in no want of money. He had
E 2
52 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
been earning 60dol. a month (and had spent it all, mostly at Spanisht
fandangos), and the agreement with my husband, to which he had lately-
placed his X, bound him to work for Mr. K. for one year for the sum of
60dol. a month and his board and lodging. You, sir, must have read some
thing about the high price of labour in California in those early years of its
settlement.
" The sittings were held after supper (or dinner, you would call it), be
tween seven and nine o'clock.
" Cat-street was in Plymouth, England. If it has given place to another
the fact of its former existence could be verified.—Georgiana B. Kirby."
The actual existence of the "Cat-street" of the narrative is shown by
the following letter :—
Post Office, Plymouth, January 23rd, 1888.
" Sir,—In reply to yours of the 21st instant I beg to inform you that a
few years ago there was a street named Catte-street, but it is now called
Stillman-street.—I am, sir, yours obediently,
"R. A. Levbrton (for Postmaster)."
The regretted death of Mrs. Kirby soon after the date of her last letter
put an end to this correspondence.
It will bo observed that the communications from the woman at Plymouth
were received at an hour which, in England, fell in the middle of the night.
The case next to be cited is a thoroughly modern one, and is in
fact still in course of development. Mr. W. T. Stead, the well-known
journalist and editor of the Review of Reviews, has repeatedly called
attention in that magazine to the telepathic correspondence which he
is able to maintain with several persons, who "write through his
hand " while at a distance, and thus convey to him information which
though sometimes erroneous, is true in a far larger proportion of
instances than chance would allow. Mr. Stead has been good enough
to introduce me to four of these correspondents, who confirm his
statements, and to give me the written testimony of a fifth and sixth.
I propose with his permission, to quote three of these cases at length.
The most important of Mr. Stead's telepathic correspondents thus
far is a lady whom he describes as A, but on whom, for the sake of
clearness—among many initials—I shall bestow the name of Miss
Summers. This lady is engaged on literary work of a kind needing
much care and accuracy. I consider her a good witness.
Miss Summers verbally confirmed to me Mr. Stead's account, given
below, and wrote the following statement: "I, the subject of Mr.
Stead's automatic writing, known as 'A,' testify to the correctness of
the statements made in this report. Mr. Stead's hand wrote these things
just as they happened ;—excepting, of course, the few incidents which
he gives as errors. I should like to add what I think more wonderful
than many of the things which Mr. Stead has cited, namely, the
correctness with which he has on several occasions given the name of
persons whom he has never seen or heard of before. I remember on
The Subliminal Consciousness. 53
one occasion a person calling upon me with a very uncommon name.
The next day I saw Mr. Stead and he read to me what his hand had
written of the visit of this person, giving the name absolutely correctly.
Mr. Stead has never seen that person, and till then had no knowledge
of his existence."
I now quote from the Review of Reviews for April, 1893, pp. 428-
430, substituting " Miss Summers " for " A," and giving the true sex
of the correspondent, which Mr. Stead at first altered as an
additional precaution against identification.
M. Aut. 61. How it all Began.
One day in August [1892], "Julia "—as I call the invisible intelligence
that from time to time controls my hand—suddenly wrote, " Why do you
think that it is strange that I should write with your hand ? Any one can
write with your hand." I asked what she meant, and she answered, "Any
of your friends." "On this earth?" I asked incredulously. She wrote,
"Try it." "Need they know about it?" "No." "Then," I said,
"there will be an end of all secrets in the world." She wrote, " No ; mind
is in contact with mind all over the world. Any one to whom you can
speak if you were within range of the physical senses you could speak to
mentally wherever he is, because the mind is not trammelled by the limita
tions of matter." She explained that the real self, the Ego, had both mind
and body as its instruments, by which it could communicate with the out
side world. Both were instruments, either could be used, but each was not
always informed of the use which had been made of the other. That is to
say, it was perfectly possible for the Ego to use your mind to direct my
hand without finding it necessary to inform your physical consciousness
that any such communication had taken place. But the mind would no
more communicate a secret which the Ego did not wish to be known, than
the tongue would be guilty of such an indiscretion, for tongue and mind are
alike the servants of the real self.
I. The Test of the Old Thistle.
I was rather incredulous, but I began experimenting with a friend in
London who was sympathetic. I found that it succeeded to a marvel. That
is to say, I found that my friend had no difficulty whatever in using my hand
to communicate information or the expression of the mood of the moment.
When my friend, whom 1 will call Miss Summers, was writing, I said to her
in the middle of the communication, "Are you really writing, or is it only
my subliminal consciousness?" My hand wrote, "I will try and prove to
you that I am really writing. There is an object in my hand just now which
I will bring to your office. I am sitting at my table. It is a small present
that I want to make to you. It is an old thistle."
" What ! " I said, "a thistle ?"
" Yes, an old thistle ; it played a part in my life that made it dear to me.
I will give it to you to-morrow. I will explain to you when I give it. I
hope you will accept it."
Next day, when my friend came, I asked her if she had brought a present
for me. She said no, she had not. She had thought of bringing one, but
54 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
she had left it at home. I asked her what it was. She said it was such an
absurd thing she did not like to mention it. When I pressed her she said
it was a piece of scented soap ! I was considerably disgusted at this apparent
failure, and told her why. She said at once, " That is very curious. Every
thing happened as you have it written there, and it is a thistle, and an old
thistle. But it is a thistle that is stamped on the piece of soap. I will
bring it to you next time I see you. It did play a part in my life," which
she then proceeded to explain. I have the soap now in my possession. It
is stamped with a thistle. [The private incident has been explained to me,
and shows that it was the thistle stamped on the soap which gave that object
its significance. Miss Summers had thought of the gift before Mr. Stead's
hand wrote,—perhaps at the exact time of his writing.—F.W.H.M.]
A Journey Described.
She wrote from time to time describing her movements. The first dis
patch which is worth quoting was one I received on Saturday, September
18th. It will be noticed that there are inaccuracies, but they are very
slight.
" I went to Waterloo Station by the 12.0 train and got to Hampton
Court about one. When we got out we went to an hotel and had dinner. It
cost nearly 3s. After dinner I went to the picture galleries. I was very
much pleased with the painting of many of the ceilings ; I was also inter
ested in most of the portraits by Lely. After seeing the galleries I went out
into the grounds. How beautiful they are ! I saw the great vine, that lovely
English garden, the avenue of elms, the canal, the great water sheet, the
three views, the fountain, the gold fishes, and then I lost myself in the maze.
I got home about nine o'clock. It cost me altogether about 6s."
On communicating this to Miss Summers, she said that everything was
right with two exceptions. She went down by the 2.0 train and not by the
12.0, and gotto Hampton Court about three. The dinner cost her 2s. lid.,
which was "nearly 3s.," and the total cost of the expedition was 6s. 3d.
The places were visited in the order in which they were named. The only
mistake was the train by which Miss Summers went to Hampton Court.
The Unreserve or the Real Self.
Then came some curious experiences which showed that the real self
which wrote with my hand was much more ready to communicate its wants
than the physical self. On September 20th, for instance, my hand wrote
from Miss Summers :—
"I have had rather a sad day. I have had a disappointment in some
work, or rather in the payment of some work, and as the result I am rather
short of money. I don't like to tell you this, because you will want to give
me some. But I don't want you to. I am rather pinched for money-
just now ; I have £3 to pay for lodgings. But I will pull through."
I said, " I will send you the money." My hand wrote and said, " No, I
won't take it. I will send it back if you do. I don't like to seem
mercenary." On sending up to Miss Summers the next day I found that it
was as stated, but that she was very much disgusted on finding that I knew
of her needs.
From that time forward any incident was reported as a matter of course
The StMiminal Consciausness. 55
by her. Occasionallyan incident would be slightly misstated, but broadly
speaking out of 100 statements 90 were as correctly written by my hand
as if Miss Summers had written them herself.
A Trip to Windsor.
One among many may be mentioned. It was written on October 15th.
This was interesting, because my hand wrote the communication when I
was 250 miles distant in the North of England.
" It is a very fine day. I went from Paddington by the 1.15 train.
When I got to Windsor I went to the Castle. I went first upon the terrace,
then I went to St. George's Chapel. I thought it might be as well to stay
there, but reconsidered it, and thought I would go into the park. So I left
the Castle and went into the park. I wanted to find a beautiful oak that
I had spoken of to you. There were many deer and many great trees,
but I could not find the oak. I wandered about for some time until I found
a beautiful oak, but it was not the oak I wasjn search of. After finding it
I went for a walk to seek a cavern, but could find none. I have spent for the
railway 3s. ; for food I spent half-a-crown. I spent 6d. for a telegram, and
taking two busses made my expenses for to-day 5s. lOd."
This was exactly correct in every particular, as to the time of the train,
and the succession of events, and the sum of money paid, [although wrongly
added up].
Automatic Correspondence.
For several months past I have almost every day received communica
tions from my friend when anything interested her, or she felt she had any
thing to communicate with me. The immense majority of these communi
cations are of a private character, and can only be referred to here. Often
they are but brief memoranda regarding a visit to a church or a business
appointment, or a visit to some friend. Frequently mention is made of
books she has been reading, and the usual information given as to the state
of health, of good spirits or depression, which one friend might send to
another. On one occasion she startled me by reporting a rather disagree
able fracas which had taken place in a carriage on the South Western
Railway, but which fortunately terminated happily. The aggressor took
alarm and jumped out of the train as it was slowing up at a station. Nor
was it only contemporary events which were described. On one occasion a
rather painful chapter in my friend's history, which she had shrunk from
telling me in detail, was written out by my hand with the utmost minutiae,
and, as she informed me when I read it over to her, with the most absolute
accuracy. Although it had happened some years ago it had made a very
deep impression upon her mind at the time, and it remained as vividly
present in her mind as if it had happened on the previous day. In my com
munications with this correspondent, Miss Summers, the mistakes are
extremely small. I have frequently kept appointments, and written letters,
and even sent cheques, in response to communications written by my hand,
nor have I on any of these occasions found that there was a mistake.
Once or twice my hand has written that Miss Summers was about to visit
me and I have been disappointed, but in every case I have afterwards
learned that she had actually started to call upon me, but had been
hindered by some unforeseen event.
56 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Errors in Transmission.
There have been, however, two or three occasions when there have been
curious errors in detail. These are quite as important to note as those cases
in which the messages have been correct. The first error was a statement
that on a certain Saturday afternoon she had walked in Regent's Park,
whereas, as a matter of fact, she had not left her house. I do not know how
that error arose ; there may have been some expectation on my part that she
was going to walk in the park, but, whatever the cause, the fact remains
that it was a mistake. On another occasion a still more remarkable error
occurred. It was when I was at Redcar. My hand wrote an account of an
interview which it said Miss Summers had had with a certain person who
was named. It was a disagreeable interview, and portions of the conversa
tion were reported. On comparing notes I found, to my surprise, that while
•he had been to the office of the person in question, the interview which was
reported had not taken place with him or my friend. The conversation re
produced had, however, taken place between a friend of Miss Summers's
and another person. Miss Summers's friend had told her what had taken
place, and my hand had given a very much exaggerated account of that con
versation at a distance of 250 miles. Miss Summers's friend was personally
unknown to me, and Miss Summers was very much astonished to find that
her friend's interview was attributed to herself and interpolated into her
business conversation with another party.
Instances of Inaccuracies.
I will close my account of my experiences in automatic telepathy with
Miss Summers with a report which was curiously inaccurate in some points.
For me the inaccuracies have more interest than the accurate statement. I
am so accustomed to use this faculty for the everyday purposes of life, that
an accurate statement is to me a matter of course ; it is the inaccurate state
ment which puzzles me. On Christmas Day I knew that Miss Summers in
tended to visit Matthew Arnold's grave. That I knew, but nothing else.
On the afternoon of Christmas Day my hand wrote a narrative of what had
happened. It stated that in the morning my friend had gone to St. Paul's
to attend the service, where she had enjoyed the music very much. After
leaving St. Paul's she had gone home, and then had gone to Paddington
Station, where she took a ticket for Laleham. When my hand wrote this
I stopped, and asked whether there was a station at Laleham. My hand
wrote Yes, and continued that she had taken a return ticket to Laleham,
which had cost about 3s. 6d. It was a beautiful day, and there were very
few people in the train. It went on to say that she had gone to the church,
and had had no difficulty in finding the grave. There was no one in the
churchyard but Miss Summers. She stayed there about half-an-hour, and
laid on the tomb some white flowers, the name of which my hand tried to
write, but only succeeded in making unintelligible scrawls. She had then
come back to the station. The train was nearly empty, and Miss Summers
had a compartment to herself all the way to London. Returning home
she spent the evening in front of a roaring fire, reading Arnold's poems.
I did not see her for several days, and then I told her the narrative.
I learned that while on the whole the statement was quite correct, in three
The Subliminal Consciousness. 57
minor details it was erroneous. Miss Summers did not go to Laleham
from Paddington; but from Waterloo. I can only explain that mistake by
saying that as the previous journey to Windsor had been made from
Paddington, possibly my mind thought that she would start again from the
same station, and thus led my hand to write wrongly. As for the railway
fare, I believe it was wrong ; but my friend did not remember how much
change she got out of the half-sovereign with which she had paid for her
ticket. The other mistake was that the flowers she had laid on the tomb
were not white, but blue. The name of the flowers Miss Summers did
not know, and this of course accounts for the unintelligible scrawl which
was the only reply when asked for the name. Before seeing my friend, I had
referred to a railway guide to see if there was a station at Laleham ; I found
that there was none. I thought that my hand had been writing wrongly ;
but when I asked my friend where she took her ticket for, she replied
at once, "To Laleham." I said, "Why, there is no station at Laleham."
" No," she said ; "but I asked the booking-clerk for a ticket to Laleham,
and he gave me one for Staines, and said that was the station for
Laleham. "
II. The second case is interesting as involving a very distinct state
ment from a slight acquaintance. I quote from the Review of Reviews,
p. 432, and add a corroborative letter.
I will conclude this very imperfect account of the communications which
have been going on now for more than seven months—hardly a day of which
has passed without communications of one kind or another—by describing a
remarkable instance in which a comparative stranger to me communicated to
me things by my hand which he had expressly refused to communicate face
to face. Last February, I met a correspondent in a railway carriage with
whom I had a very casual acquaintance. Knowing that he was in consider
able distress, our conversation fell into a more or less confidential train, in
which I divined that his difficulty was chiefly financial.
The Hand more Communicative than the Tongue.
I said I did not know whether I could be of any help to him or not, but
I asked him to let me know exactly how things stood, what were his debts,
his expectations, and so forth. He said that he really could not tell me, and
I refrained from pressing him. We parted at the railway station. That
night I received a letter from him apologising for not having given me
the information, but saying that he really could not. I received that letter
about ten o'clock, and about two o'clock next morning, before going to
sleep, I sat down in my bedroom and said, " You did not like to tell me
your exact financial position face to face, but now you can do so through my
hand. Just write and tell me exactly how things stand. How much money
do you owe ? " My hand then wrote, " My debts are £90." In reply to a
further inquiry whether the figure was accurately stated, " ninety pounds "
was then written in full.
"Is that all?" I asked.
My hand wrote, "Yes ; and how I am to pay them I do not know."
" Well," said I, "how much do you want for that piece of property you
wish to sell ? "
98 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
My hand wrote, " What I hope is, say, £100 for that. It seems a great
deal, but I must get money somehow. Oh, if I could get anything to do, 1
would gladly do anything ! "
" What does it cost you to live '( " I asked.
My hand wrote : "I do not think I could possibly live under £200 a
year ; you see I have to keep some relatives besides myself. If I were
alone I could live on £50 per annum, but there is rent and everything.
Where can I get this ? I cannot tell."
A Successful Result.
The next day I made a point of seeking my friend. He said, "I hope
you are not offended at my refusing to tell you my circumstances, but I do
not think it is right to trouble you with them." I said, " I am not offended
in tho least, and I hope you will not be offended when I tell you what I have
done." I then explained this automatic telepathic method of communica
tion. I said, " I do not know whether there is a word of truth in what my
hand wrote. I hesitate at telling you, for I confess I think that the sum
which was written as the amount of your debts cannot be correctly given.
It seems to me to be much too small, considering the distress in which you
seemed to be. Therefore I will read you that first, and if it is right I will
read you the rest ; but if it is wrong I will consider that it is rubbish, and
that your mind in no way influenced my hand." He was interested but
incredulous. " But," I said, " before I read you anything, will you form a
definite idea in your mind as to how much your debts amount to ; secondly,
as to the amount of money you hope to get for that property ; thirdly, what
it costs to keep up your establishment with your relatives ; and fourthly,
what could you live upon if you were by yourself ? " " Yes," said he, "I
have thought of all these things." I then read out, "The amount of your
debts is about £90." He started. " Yes," said he, " that is right ; but the
figure I was going to mention was £100. But that includes some money for
current expenses."
Then I said, " As it is right I will read you the rest. You hope to get
£100 for your property." " Yes," said he, " that was the figure that was in
my mind, although I hesitated to mention it, for it seems too much."
'' You say you cannot live upon less than £200 a year with your present
establishment." " Yes," said he, " that is exactly right. "
"But if you were by yourself, you could live on £50 a year." " Well,"
said he, "a pound a week was what I had fixed in my mind." Therefore
there had been a perfectly accurate transcription of the thoughts in the
mind of a comparative stranger, written out with my own hand at a time
when we were at a distance of some miles, within a few hours of the time
when he had written apologising for not having given me the information for
which I had asked.
I could multiply instances of the same kind of thing, but this will
probably suffice.
The unconscious correspondent confirms as follows, in a letter in
my possession. I suppress his name, but it may be given to inquirers.
April 6th, 1893.
Dear Mr. Stead,—I received your communication and have no hesitation
The Subliminal Consciousness. 5&
in allowing you to submit it to the P. R. Society. The statements are
correct. I was unaware of the experiment until next day. I consider the
proof a very striking one, as from some circumstances connected with my
[affairs] you could not possibly have formed an estimate even—at least I think
it hardly possible,—of what my debts, prospects, or expectations were.
I am, yours faithfully, E. J.
III. The third case which I shall quote also involves a message
from a comparative stranger :—
An Impromptu Test.
It may be said that between my friend " Miss Summers," my son, and
myself there existed a knowledge that I would try to let them write with my
hand, but this can hardly be said in an impromptu experiment which I made
with a correspondent whom I had only seen once before in my life. Some
months ago I was at Redcar, in the North of England. A foreign lady who
does some work for the Review had to meet me at Redcar railway station
about three o'clock. I was staying with my brother, who lives about ten
minutes' walk from the station. At twenty minutes to three it occurred to
me that " about three," the phrase used in her letter, might mean some time
before three, and as I could not lay my hand upon a time-table, I simply
asked her to use my hand and tell me what time the train was due. This, I
may say, was done without any previous communication with her upon the
subject. She immediately wrote her name, and said the train was due at
Redcar station at ten minutes to three. I saw that I should have to leave at
once, but before starting I asked her where she was at that moment. My
hand wrote, " I am in the train at Middlesborough railway station, on my
way from Hartlepool to Redcar." I then went off to the station. On arriv
ing there I went up to the time-table to see when the train was due. It was
timed to arrive at 2.52. The train, however, was late ; three o'clock came,
and it had not arrived. At five minutes past three, getting rather anxious,
I took a slip of paper from my pocket, and taking a pencil in my hand,
asked her where she was. At that moment she wrote her name (they always
write their names at the beginning and end of each communication), and
said, " I am in the train, rounding the curve before you come to the Redcar
station ; I will be with you in a minute." " Why the mischief have you
been so late?" I mentally asked. My hand wrote, " We were detained at
Middlesborough for so long ; I do not know why." I put the paper in my
pocket, walked to the end of the platform, and there was the train ! The
moment it stopped I went up to my friend and said to her, " How late you
are ! What on earth has been the matter ? " " I do not know," she said.
"The train stopped so long at Middlesborough, it seemed as if it never
would start." I then showed her what my hand had written. The lady in
question confirms as follows :—
West Hartlepool, April 4th, 1893.
My Dear Friend,—I most certainly and very distinctly remember the
occasion you have referred to in the subjoined newspaper cutting. I was
much surprised when you told me that you had made me telepath you the
time I should arrive at Redcar, as I was quite unconscious of having telepathed
any information to you with regard to my arrival. I don't see that I can add
€0 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
anything to your account of the incident. It is very clear, and I can make
no corrections.—Yours sincerely, Gbeda Grass.
Mr. Stead also favoured me with an account of further experiments
with his own son (see p. 430 of Review of Reviews), being a narrative of
incidents on a bicycle tour, as written by Mr. Stead's hand, and as
actually recorded by his son, Mr. William Stead. This was a good and
careful experiment, and contains messages which to the persons
concerned seem beyond the scope of chance. There are, however, a
good many mistakes ; nor is it quite easy to estimate how far the little
incidents of such a journey might have been unconsciously foreseen by
a father at home.
There is an evidential difficulty of a somewhat similar kind with
regard to the experiment with " B " given on p. 431, of which " B "
has kindly given me a written confirmation. The point which Mr. Stead
there makes is an interesting one, and is in conformity with evidence
already adduced. " B " willed to transfer certain statements to Mr.
Stead ; but the statements which were actually transferred were for
the most part not these, but (as " B " expressed it) " all the thoughts
that kept bobbing up in my mind when I have been trying to make
you write the other things." " This," says Mr. Stead, " was an
interesting experiment, as it seems to indicate that this power is
exercised not so much by the power of the will of the conscious mind as
by the spontaneous action of the subliminal consciousness." This may
well be so ; but in the present instance the statements written by Mr.
Stead (and which he read to me), seemed to me to be scarcely
so unexpected and definite as to make it quite certain either that Mr.
Stead's own subliminal self might not have supplied them, or that " B "
could clearly have remembered that these special facts " bobbed up "
at that special moment.
It will be observed, indeed, that throughout these experiments of Mr.
Stead's the telepathic correspondent communicates not what his supra
liminal self, but what his subliminal, desires to communicate. It is as
though, not Leonie I., but Leonie II., were to have used Professor
Janet's hand for the purposes of her outspoken correspondence. This
adds some difficulty to the evidential record ; but in itself it is a fact
of great interest, and is, I need not repeat, in thorough accord with what
the theories advanced in these papers would have led us to expect.
Mr. Stead's experiments, indeed, are so precisely confirmatory of the
existence of a continuously active subliminal consciousness in all man
kind that I almost shrink from pressing cases which look as though
they had been constructed (although they most certainly were not)
expressly to bolster up my own hypotheses.
In reply to further inquiry Mr. Stead says :—
" I quite appreciate the need of seeing the original MS., but it is em
The Subliminal Consciousness. 61
bodied in a mass of other matter, some of which is extremely confidential,
and I think that it would be much better to begin de now."
We hope, therefore, to be able to report further on Mr. Stead's
writings at no distant date.
My next case is on a smaller scale, but equally encouraging, I
think, in its own way.
I have often urged that attempts should be made to imitate Mr.
and Mrs. Newnham's series of experiments in the transference of an
unseen question through an automatist's subliminal self to his pencil ;
and I have lately been fortunate enough to find a friend,—Mr. R. H.
Buttemer, of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, a graduate in honours in
Natural Science,—willing to make a serious endeavour of this kind.
Some perseverance was required ; but a friend of Mr. Buttemer's, Mr.
H. T. Green, having first been several times lightly hypnotised by Mr.
Buttemer, showed during some months unmistakable power as a per
cipient. I was cognisant of the experiments throughout ; although on
the only occasion on which I was myself present Mr. Green'smind was
distracted by a theological examination which he was to pass next day,
and his pencil would write little but names of kings of Israel and
Judah. The conditions were throughout good ; the question being
written down out of Mr. Green's sight, and indications carefully
avoided. In the last sitting Mr. Green had his back to all the other
persons present—which is of course the right plan ;—and that sitting
was, as will be seen, the best of all. But considering the nature of the
questions asked, there was, I think, little opportunity for unconscious
indications, even when some of the persons who knew the question
were within sight of Mr. Green. There was never any contact. The
selection of questions and answers given below is a nearly average
sample ;—those which are omitted being mainly questions on private
affairs, where the answers were necessarily less definite than numbers
or htiers, and where their degree of correctness would need cumbrous
explanation. The best answer is certainly the spelling out of John
Bou—from the unseen card.
The answers here classed as " irrelevant " were sometimes a repro
duction of thoughts likely to be in the operator's mind (persons like
Jeroboam and Omri frequently turning up) ; and sometimes, I think,
represented imperfect efforts of the subliminal self to get at the unseen
question. In this and other points these experiments resemble the
much more completely successful Newnham series. There is no
apparent reason for the cessation of Mr. Green's power. He is a
healthy man, but had one or two trifling ailments during the experi
ments, which seemed to check the faculty for the time. Mr. Green,
Mr. W., and Mr. S. are known to me ; and all, I think, have pursued
the inquiry in a scientific spirit. The frivolous and roundabout
G2 Mr. F. W. II. Myers.
style of the replies is very characteristic of automatic messages in their
earlier stages. I now give Mr. Buttemer's account.
Automatic Writing Experiments with Planchette.
M. Aut. 62.
The following series of experiments were conducted at Cambridge, the
operator being Mr. Green, of Emmanuel College. The agentR (present
during all the experiments described) were Mr. W. and Mr. Buttemer. The
series of experiments commenced on November 12th, 1892 : prior to this Mr.
Green had made one or two moro or less successful attempts at automatic
writing, but the obvious difficulty of avoiding the chance of conscious inter
ference where the questions put were asked aloud had prevented the
following up of these till the suggestion was made that the questions should
be written down and concealed from the operator. Under these conditions a
trial was made on the above date, time 2 p.m., the questions being known
only to the two agents. No one else was present.
Q. : What is number on machine ? (an automatic dice-box, none of the
three having seen the numbers on it).
A. : Give another.
Q. : Who is ill on this staircase ?
A. : Ke pike pike. (A man of that name, Pike, was ill, as all were aware ;
but Mr. Green had not seen the question.) All then (Mr. Green included)
looked at the dice-box, and saw the number—seven—on it.
Q. : Why would you not answer first question 1
A. : Seven.
Another question was then correctly answered.
Q. : What is the matter with H. T. Green ?
Answer referred to previous question.
Question was put again, still without Mr. Green seeing it.
A. : A bad cold. (Correct.)
Q. : Why cannot (Mr. W.) write with Planchette?
A. : W , you mean. There is nothing in good health. Liver is not
in good condition.
Q. : Whose liver is not right ?
A. : i. (Irrelevant.) ii. Nobody particularly.
Q. (By Mr. Buttemer) : Where am I going this afternoon ?
After waiting some time the answer was written rapidly.
A. : Away, away, away.
Mr. Green knew where I was going, but did not write a more definite
answer automatically.
Eight questions were put in all, of which four were answered immediately
and correctly, and two after a sentence referring to the previous question had
been written. The first and third were not answered, the answer to the first
being unknown to the agents, while at the third Mr. Green's subliminal
consciousness appeared to seize the opportunity of showing its just-acquired
knowledge of the first. [When two answers are given, the operator was
simply told to write again, after the first irrelevant answer, without being
shown the question ; except where otherwise stated.]
At the next sitting, on the 14th November, Messrs. W., S., and Buttemer
were present, while Mr. Green operated Planchette, as before. Six questions
The Subliminal Consciousness. 63
[the answers to which were known to the agents] were put in the same way,
two being answered directly and unmistakeably, while one was answered
after some irrelevant writing, two incorrectly, and the last was not answered,
the operator appearing tired.
November 20th. Agents and percipient as before. 4 p.m.
The questions were put in the same way.
Q. : Who is J. O. F. M. ? (The initials being given in the question, we
wished the name to be written.)
A. : i. Man. Dean. (Rather illegible. ) ii. Murray. (Right. Dean of
Emmanuel. )
Q. : Who is G. R. S. 1 (Only S. knew who was meant.)
A. : Not S . (Here S. told the other agents the name—Smith.) Mr.
Green wrote " Sleep," and became drowsy. He was spoken to, to rouse
him, and the question was written.
Q. : Why did you become drowsy and write " Sleep " ?
A. : H. T. Green (pause) cannot help himself.
Q. : Why?
A. : He is tired, he is tired, he is tired. (Written very fast.)
January 31st, 1893. 4 p.m. Agents as before,with the addition of Mrs.
H. and Miss B.
Q. : How many cups of tea did Miss B. have ?
A. : i. Cannot be ascertained, ii. It was in all two—2 2 2. (Correct.)
(When a second answer was waited for, care was taken that the writer
should glean no idea of the question in the interval.)
Q. : What engraving is on the wall over the piano ? (It was one of the
Queen soon after her marriage.)
A. : i. You may perceive it was so. (Apparently referring to previous
question.) ii. It is a girl, the daughter of a man.
Q. : Who was playing the piano when the ladies came in 1
A. : i. The clock hath stricken five. (The clock struck just as Mr.
Green began to write.) ii. Mr. S. (This was correct.)
Q. : What was it?
A. : i. The one that was asked first, ii. Something, iii. Explain your
self more clearly.
Q. : What was S. playing when we came in ?
A.: i. The original one of all. ii. All I can say is " La Cigale. " (Correct.)
Two more questions were answered correctly, and then the writer began
writing on a subject in his mind at the time, and four more questions that
were put received no direct answers.
February 18th. 8 p.m. Mrs. H., Miss B., Mr. and Miss M. present, in
addition to Mr. Green, and Messrs. S., W., and Buttemer.
Mr. Green, as usual, operated Planchette, and on this occasion sat with
his back to all the other persons present.
Q. (from Mr. M.) : What was I doing this afternoon ?
A. : i. the sun (all else illegible), ii. Enjoying the fresh air
of heaven.
Q. : What was Mr. Rogers doing in Cambridge ?
A. : i. (Irrelevant, or possibly connected vaguely with the question.)
ii. Ask another, but Mr. Rogers came up on important business connected
with the Lodge. (Correct.)
64 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Q. : Where has Mrs. M. gone ?
A. : i. (Irrelevant.) ii. Far, far away, but more next time. iii. Her
mother has gone to—oh, what a happy place is London ! iv. All change
here for Bletchley. (Mrs. M. had possibly passed this station on her
journey.)
Q. : Who has won the Association Match to-day 1
A. : i. (Illegible.) ii. O ye simple ones, how long will ye love simplicity ?
Why, Oxford, of course. [This fact was known to some persons in the room,
but not to Mr. Green.]
One of the company then suggested the attempt to get the name on a
visiting card transmitted, and the question was written, "Write name on
card. " Mr. Green did not know that this experiment was about to be tried,
and the card was picked from a pile at random. The name was John B.
Bourne. A sentence was written by Mr. Green, which proved to be, " Think
of one letter at a time and then see what will happen." We did so.
A. : i. J for Jerusalem, 0 for Omri, H for Honey, and N for Nothing,
ii. B for Benjamin, O for Olive, U for Unicorn. (The remaining letters were
given incorrectly.)
Q. : How many of the Society's books are here ? (There were two
volumes of Proceeding* on the table.)
A. : i. (Irrelevant.) ii. The answer is 100-98.
Q. : What is 2 x 3?
Two irrelevant answers were given, possibly owing to a slight disturbance
in the room. The third answer was—" When that noise has ceased and
S. has finished knocking the lamp over I say 6."
A trial shortly after this, February 19th, gave no results, and the power
of automatic writing appears to have entirely left Mr. Green for the present.
I pass on to a small group of cases which form a curious transition
from these communications inter vivos to communications which I
shall class as coming from the dead. These are cases where the
message professes to come from a deceased person, but shows internal
evidence of having come, telepathically, from the mind of someone
present. I shall begin with a case such as is often cited as proof
(insufficient proof, I think,) that a deceased person is communicating.
Dr. Hodgson's informant, Mr. Lewis, a man of business in
Cincinnati, states that an automatist to whom his (Mr. Lewis's) family
were absolutely unknown wrote a message, with true name, purporting
to come from an infant sister long deceased. Mr. Lewis, naturally
enough, accepts this message, as similar messages have often been
accepted, as an indication of his sister's actual presence.
From Mr. S. Lewis, 347, Baymiller-avenue, Cincinnati.
M. Aut. 63. April 9th, 1888.
" On January 28th last I called at the house of some friends ; and on this
occasion there was some planchette writing. The friends I called on, I
believe, are professed Spiritualists. Some four or five of us (I also did) sat
around a table in a full and well lighted room (lighted the entire evening).
The operator of the planchette was a lady ; her husband was at the table,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 65
also three other friends, including myself. Different communications (so
called) were received by different ones at the table, from different friends
(as the Spiritualists say), who have passed into the spirit world. I can't give
all communications to-day, but one I wish to state. But first let me say
that many years since in my father's family the first little one that came to
live—a short time—with them was a little girl, named Angeline ; she lived
only about two years and died ; next to this little girl was a brother, named
Charles (in after life a clergyman in the Episcopal Church) ; and next to
Charles was another little sister also named Angeline, and next to her was
another sister named B. Ann ; then next to B. Ann appeared, well, your
humble servant, myself, to behold many of the beauties of this beautiful
world. So that you see that between the two brief years of my first little
sister, Angeline (1st), and my own coming on this globe there was born one
brother and two sisters ; therefore, my first little sister, Angeline (1st), I
never saw ; and only heard my mother (in her lifetime) speak of Angeline
(1st), and I have also seen her name in the records, &c. , in the Bible at my
old home.
"The operator of the planchette, on the evening of which I am speaking,
knew nothing of my father's family (excepting, of course, myself). I never
had mentioned one word to the operator (of planchette), or anyone else in
that little company, anything whatever about my brothers and sisters or even
about my father's family in any way or manner ; and besides, we all lived
and grew up in the north part of the State, not far distant from Lake Erie,
while the operator has (I think) lived in the south part of this State not far
distant from the Ohio River ; and there never has been any acquaintance nor
any communication between any member of my father's family (or anyone
else even) to give any history or information of any kind to the operator,
and I certainly never gave the operator any information whatever until after
the occurrence and the writing on the planchette, which wrote this evening,
January 28th last, the following, viz. : ' Mr. Lewis, I am his sister, I am
glad you came here to-night ; come again (signed) Angeline.'
" Now I want to ask, how could originate in the mind of operator any
ideas or thoughts about this little sister Angeline (1st) and myself ? I had not
for years past even thought of her until the name was written on the evening
spoken of.
" The operator is not, never has been a paid medium. S. Lewis."
Now let us consider a similar message, which might have produced
a similar belief in another informant's mind. ' But here it so happened
that he tested the alleged fact of death ; and found that the supposed
.spirit was still alive at the time of the message. The correspondent,
Mr. G. S. Long, is known to Dr. Hodgson.
M. Aut. 64.
Jersey City, N.J., October 22nd, 1888.
******
" I think I wrote you once that about two years ago I had received what
was said to be a most convincing test of spirit-return, convincing to all
except myself. A young lady, a Spiritualist and medium, though not a
professional, nor one that ever received one cent in pay, by means of a
lettered board and toy chair, she holding one leg of the chair and I another,
P
66 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
while a third let; of the chair served as a pointer, gave the following by
means of the chair :—
" First the chair spelt out my name and showed a disposition to get in my
lap; then it spelled out ' CARY,' and when I asked for the name of the
' spirit ' it spelt out ' George (my name), you ought to know me as I am
Jim.' But I didn't, and said so. Then, without my looking at the board,
it spelt out 'Long Island, • Jim Rowe,' and 'Don't you remember I
used to carry you when you were a little fellow,' or words to that effect. I
had to acknowledge the truth of it and also to say that as he was an ignorant
man he possibly intended ' CARY ' for carry. I must own I was puzzled
for the moment. To make sure of his power I asked that he count the
pickets in the fence outside of the house and I would go out and confirm his
statement. Somehow he couldn't agree to this, and even the medium
objected. As a last resort I asked how long he had been in the spirit land
and the answer came, between 13 and 14 years.
"Now to the sequel. First it occurred to me a day or two after, that
while all the incidents given were correct, the name should have been given
as ROE instead of ROWE. Second, I was upon Long Island this summer,
and the matter coming to my mind I inquired how long Jim Roe had been
dead, and was informed he died last winter ; so when I received this test so
convincing to the believers the man icas not dead.
"Yours truly, Geo. E. Long."
On October 26th, 1888, Mr. Long adds :—
" I do not think that the medium was fraudulent. Her family consists
of Mr. S. and 3 daughters, she being the youngest. I have found all
to be hypnotic subjects, with the exception of the eldest daughter. They
are all believers in Spiritualism, the youngest having been the medium.
They do not sit now, as it is claimed that the sittings, while rich in spiritual
istic satisfaction, were productive of a state of poor health in the medium.
"As I myself have obtained information supposed to have been impossible
for me to have reached, I cannot say for certainty that she had not obtained
information about Jim, but I don't believe she had. As the name Rowe
was being spelled I sat with my eyes turned from the board and had in mind
the name Scudder, and mentally followed the taps of the chair to S C U D—
when the medium said, 'The name Rowe is given,' &c. This would seem
to leave out any involuntary muscular action. Why Rowe should have been
given instead of Roe is still another phase. I wonder whether if any question
of the Roe family had arisen I would have had in mind the name of Rowe ?
If so, then she produced that which I had long while before been conscious
of, but was at the time unconscious of, and had it coupled with an error in
spelling that I might have been guilty of had I myself been called upon at
that moment to spell it. Had she been fraudulent the probability is she
would have spelt it correctly.
" It seems to me that the basis of Spiritualism rests mainly upon this phe
nomenon which men and women in a supernormal condition produce, with
out understanding it, and credit to spiritual agencies. "
[A general corroboration of Mr. Long's memory of the incident is added
from a lady present at the time, who does not now recall the details.]
The Subliminal Consciousness. 67
The next case is very remote ; and I should not use it to aid in
establishing communication with the dead. But as indicating a
possible source of error it seems worth quoting, as it is vouched
for by two informants who, although here anonymous, are distinguished
and intelligent men. Professor H. writes to Dr. Hodgson in 1889 :—
M. Aut. 65.
" I write you the details of another matter told me by a friend, Hon. Z.,
of C . He is one of the leading members of the Bar, has repre
sented his State several times in the National Congress, and has a very clear,
discriminating, and vigorous intellect. He does not believe in Spiritualism,
but regards its phenomena as illusions or hallucinations. In his youth, in
1854, he had taught a winter's term in his native town of P , and in the
spring returned to Q to complete his fit for college in the Academy in that
place. One evening after his return to Q , a party of young people to the
number of eight were gathered about a table to witness the trance-writing
of one of their number, a Miss A., a very beautiful girl of eighteen years
of age, and the music teacher of the Academy. She wrote the name of Mr.
Z. 's father, , who had died in 1845, and whom no one in the room
save his son could have known. I may add that none of the party save
my friend knew anything about P or its inhabitants. Mr. Z. declared
that he did not believe his father had anything to do with the writing. At
this Miss A., who sat on the opposite side of the table from Mr. Z., arose,
came about to his side, drew her pencil several times rapidly across the two
middle fingers of his left hand, returned to her seat, and wrote quickly,
' Does this convince you ? ' Mr. Z. said that those two fingers were gone
from his father's left hand, having been cut off in his boyhood. Mr. Z. was
startled, but still expressed his disbelief. Miss A. then wrote H. T. Y.'s
name, and continued : ' Killed on day of , sliding down M
Hill, running off embankment, broke his neck ; Rev. Mr. W. attended
funeral; text: book , chap. , verse ., Both date and text
were given with particularity. Mr. W. was a Congregationalist clergyman
of P , and Mr. Y.'s family were active and leading members of his
church. Mr. Y. had been one of Mr. Z.'s pupils that winter in P , and with
the other boys had coursed M Hill, a very steep hill near the school-
house, and covered with glare ice from summit to foot. Near the foot was
an embankment wharfed up to sustain the road-bed, and that was a very
dangerous place to slide by. Mr. Z. had repeatedly warned the boys of the
danger, but had not deemed it best to forbid their sliding. He had worried
over the matter a great deal, and was exceedingly relieved when school closed
without any accident having happened. Mr. Z. looked up the text and
found it entirely inappropriate to a funeral occasion. H. T. Y. is living
to-day, and is the head of the K School of Technology. This fact made
Mr. Z. scout the whole affair as unworthy of his notice ; but to me it seems
to indicate a telepathic explanation of both occurrences. I asked Mr. Z. if
either his father or Mr. Y. were in his mind at the time. He replied, ' No,'
they came into his mind with a shock of surprise when their names were
written. We must so suppose the telepathic communication to be without
consciousness on the part of the agent."
The Hon. Z. of this case writes as follows :—
f 2
68 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
" This statement by Professor H. is correct, and I cannot improve it, or
make it more correct by re-writing. Now you may use these facts, but I
earnestly desire you not to make use of any names or places."
My next case comes from Dr. Ermacora, of Padua, one of the group
of savants whose experiments with Eusapia Paladino are mentioned in
the Supplement to this Part of our Proceedings. Professor W. James
has visited Dr. Ermacora at Padua, and tells me that Dr. Ermacora's
experiments are seriously and carefully conducted. Dr. Ermacora
himself, for reasons which he states below, regards this message as prob
ably coming from a disembodied intelligence. But it seems to me that
the statement as to the date of the letter's arrival may have emanated
from the mind of the Venetian cousin at the time when she meant to
post her letter in the evening. Dr. Ermacora has sent me a case (not
for publication) where a message written by the same automatist pre
dicted some remarkable points with regard to her own future health.
Such a prediction, however,—like the frequently recorded predictions of
somnambulists with regard to their own epileptic fits, ifcc.—seems to me
to belong to the province of the subliminal self, which I conceive as
more intimately acquainted with the state of the organism than the
supraliminal self can be. Dr. Ermacora is continuing his experiments,
and we may hope for fresh light upon the source of these messages.
M. 41.
Padua, June 17th, 1892.
The following case offers some resemblance to that which is quoted in the
S.P.R. Journal for April, 1892, p. 246 [L. 936], but is in one respect
more complete, inasmuch as it seems to show that the presence or near
neighbourhood of a letter containing news not yet read by the percipient
(in this case a writing medium) may be without influence on the phenomenon.
It has, moreover, I think, a wider interest, as showing that the simple
messages obtained by writing or similar means may often be more trustworthy
than messages obtained in more complicated and elaborate ways. It is most
desirable that cases of this type should be collected in greater numbers and
with greater care.
Signora Maria Manzini, residing here in Padua, has been for a few-
months experimenting with automatic writing, and is habitually controlled
by a personality which announces itself under the name of Elvira
On April 21st, 1892, Signora Maria Manzini received a letter from Venice
informing her that her cousin, Maria Alzetta, was seriously ill with phthisis.
It was long since Signora Manzini had heard news of this cousin, and she
only knew that, having been left a childless widow, she had remarried and
had two children by her second husband. On the evening of the same day
Signora M. was writing in my presence, under the control of Elvira, and
asked questions as follows :—
Q. : Can you tell me if my cousin's illness is really serious 1
After a pause of about a minute and a half the answer came—
A. : She has a very short time to live, and she leaves three lovely children.
Q. : Did you first know this when I received news of the illness ?
The Subliminal Consciousness. 69
A. : No, I have known it for many days, but did not mention it for fear
of paining Maria [the medium].
Q. : Why, then, were you so slow just now in answering my question ?
A. : I went to see how she was, so as to be able to tell you precisely.
Next day Signora M. wrote to Venice offering to go and see the invalid.
On the 24th she received an answer expressing a desire for her arrival, and
stating that the invalid was at the hospital. She wrote again to ask on what
days it was allowed to visit the hospital patients. Before an answer arrived,
Signora M. wrote in my presence (April 28th) under Elvira's control, and
we put the following questions :—
Q. : How is the invalid at Venice ? Do you know why the answer to my
letter has not arrived 1 and do you know on what day it is allowed to visit
the hospital ?
A. : The invalid's condition is the same. There is little hope. She has
undergone a serious operation ; there is danger. To-morrow morning Maria
will receive a letter. Visitors such as she are received every day at the
hospital.
Q. : Do you mean because Maria is a relation of the invalid's ?
A. : No, but because she comes from a distance.
Failing to see what connection there could be between pulmonary disease
and a surgical operation, we asked :
Q. : If the patient is in a consumption, what operation can she have
undergone 1
A. : She is in a consumption ; but the operation was necessitated by the
birth of her last little girl.
Next morning Signora M. received a post-card from Venice containing
these words : " Amalia inquired at the hospital and was told that you and
your mother would be received on any day, as strangers from another city, if
you will come when it suits you."
The date of the letter's arrival and the news contained in it thus corre
sponded with the prediction. But an embarrassing circumstance remained.
When the postman delivered this letter he said that he had in fact brought
it to the house on the previous evening, but finding no one at home he had
taken it away with him again till the following morning. Thus the messages
from Elvira had been received after the postman had endeavoured to
deliver the letter. Had, then, the fact that the letter was already in Padua
determined the communication which announced its approaching delivery
and part of its content ?
On April 30th Signora M. went to Venice and found that her cousin had
really had a third child a few months previously, and after its birth had
been ill in a way which had ultimately needed a surgical operation. Another
small detail previously communicated to Signora Manzini by Elvira was
likewise found to be true. Signora Manzini made no mention whatever of
her own experiments, and her cousin at Venice continued entirely ignorant
of them.
On that same evening, April 30th, on Signora Manzini's return from
Venice to Padua, I was anxious to inquire from the "control" as to the effect
of the presence in Padua of the letter which had been announced on the even
ing of the 28th for the following morning. Under the control of Elvira,
70 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Signora M. wrote the following answer : " I did not know that the letter
had arrived ; but I was sure that Maria would receive it next morning,
because those who wrote it had intended that it should reach her in the
morning. They had intended to post it in the evening, but instead of that
they posted it directly it was written. I was, in fact, mistaken ; for it was
a mere chance that it was actually received in the morning."
I then requested Signora M. to write to her friends at Venice in the fol
lowing terms : "I would beg you to satisfy a feeling of curiosity on my part
with regard to a presentiment which I lrad about your last letter. I should
like to know whether it was posted at the hour which you originally
intended ; or whether you changed your intention and posted it at a different
hour. Will you please tell me all you remember about this ? "
The following answer was received on May 2nd :—
"I had meant to post my last letter to you in the evening, but, fearing to-
forget it, I posted it at mid-day, when I had occasion to go out."
To resume the facts. Automatic writing informed us of facts entirely-
unknown to our ordinary consciousness ; namely, the fact that the invalid
had three children, and the fact that she had undergone an operation. Thus
far we might invoke telepathy and clairvoyance as the explanation. Then
there was a true prediction of the arrival of a letter, and of part of its con
tent. But although the letter was delivered on the morning specified, it
had, in fact, already arrived in Padua when the communication was made-,
and its non-delivery in the evening was due to accident. Clairvoyance would
not explain this incident,, as that power might have been expected to reveal
the presence of the letter in Padua. Neither was there an indication of so-
called psychometry—an influence from the nearness of the letter itself. But,
lastly, an automatic message explains the incident in the simplest manner,
and that explanation turns out to be the true one.
Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
C. Thus much for the present with regard to communications
from the living ; and as to the danger that a message purporting to
come from a deceased person may in reality emanate from the mind of
one of the living persons present. But this, although a real risk, is by-
no means the only risk of deception which such messages involve.
The communication may conceivably come from some unembodied
spirit indeed, but not from the spirit who is claimed as its author.
Have we any way of guarding against this deception ;—any hints wliich-
may even help us to conceive the nature of a danger which lies so
entirely outside our terrene experience 1
Let us at least make an attempt to consider the possibilities of dis
embodied existence, apart from any dogmatic preoccupation, and
simply in the light of such analysis of terrene personality as our
discussions may have suggested.
- It is clear in the first place that we must put aside the moral
distinctions on which men have mostly dwelt in such speculations as
these. Men have for the most part confined themselves to imagining
personalities shaped on their own familiar type,—but some of them so
The Subliminal Consciousness. 71
good as to be called angels, some of them so bad as to be called devils.
These conceptions have constantly deflected and distorted our present
inquiries, by suggesting that if we are dealing with intelligences very
different from our own, these strange intelligences must either be
immensely better than ourselves or immensely worse. But this is
eminently an anthropomorphic illusion. Angels and devils there may
be, if you like, in indefinite numbers ;—as there may be mermaids and
sea-serpents in the deep sea ; but that does not make it logical to
assume that every form of deep-sea life which comes to our net will be
either a sea-serpent or a mermaid. For our present purpose it will be
more instructive to regard man—not as a moderately good being,—
intermediate between possible extremes of fiendishness and beatitude,—
—but rather as an extremely complex being, more complex and at the
same time more integrated than any other being that we know. As
compared with a civilised adult man, all other creatures are less com
plicated and some are less coherent. The man's earlier stages, whether
as savage or as infant, are less coherent; and his arrests of dev«lop-
ment, or retrograde processes, are always a sort of disintegration. The
hysteric exhibits this disintegrative process in its active stage of
extreme instability ; the dement shows us a kind of stability reached
when the disintegration of personality has been pushed as far as is
consistent with keeping a human frame alive.
In the animal creation we have unification and specialisation secured
at the cost of range and adaptability. And we must remember that the
enormous majority of animals are protozoa, microscopic and unicellular;
and that the enormous majority of metazoa or multicellular animals
are parasitical. So that if we were simply told that we were to be in
troduced to a great number of new living beings, with no further
details, the presumption would be that these new beings would be
extremely short-lived, and dependent for their very existence upon
close proximity to some higher organism. And by analogy, if we are
told that we are to come across a number of denizens of the unseen
world, taken at random, the presumption will be that we shall not
encounter a Gabriel or a Plato, a Beelzebub or a Napoleon, but simply a
number of parasitical existences who perhaps rise into individualisation
by the mere momentary contact with our own spirits, and sink back again
presently into some psychical " womb and tomb of things " out
of which they for an instant rose. Or if this be lower than we like to
go even in imagination for our comradeships, let us realise at least that
spirits of the same grade as the higher animals here may be able to
communicate with our spirits simply from the removal of those
conditions which the struggle for existence has here imposed on the
animal creation, and which have fitted them for objects more
important to their well-being than converse with man.
72 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
The only excuse for speculations so wild as these is that they are at
least less wild, more in accordance with analogy, than the popular fears
which see a full-blown " lying spirit " in every random utterance of a
planchette, and endeavour with Bibles and invocations to test the
theology of suspected entities, which (to judge from all that we can
learn of them) may be about on the level of a psychical jelly-fish.
Well, it will next be said, all this may apply to the nameless,
witless agencies from which (if not from our own spirits) most of our
messages do assuredly come. But what say you to the higher
communications 1 to those that are above and not below the automatist's
ordinary level 1 If these messages come from outside ourselves, have
you anything to say of high spirits, such as the senders claim to be ?
One suggestion I have, which seems to me to be again founded on
analogy and to help in explaining certain fresh difficulties of " spirit
identity " which meet us so soon as the alleged spirit assumes the
character of a "guide," and communicates continuous advice or
teaching.
We have seen that on earth the pathway of ascent in the scale of
organisms is through integration, through unification. The cells of the
metazoon—say of man—could have carried on an inferior existence
separately ; they have modified and unified themselves into man, and
have made an organism more capable than any other of subduing the
world. But how, again, has man's organism subdued the world 1 By
its capacity for further integration ; its ability to collaborate as a unit
in a social organism, in which the minds of many act as one. These are
truisms. But it is not yet a truism to point out that the psychical law
of telepathy (if such it be) represents a still more advanced, a still
closer integrative process. It points to a surer convergence, a more in
timate fusion of spirit with spirit than is possible so long as all converse
has to pass through mere rifts in the veil of flesh. How far, then, may
such unification extend 1 We have suggested the possibility that para
sitical minds may form a temporary union (possibly a permanent union)
with our own. What if minds like our own should in their turn
become in some way components of a larger spiritual aggregate 1
This need not interfere with our individuality. A corpuscle in a human
artery is as indefeasibly a cell as if it were swimming freely in pond-
water. But nevertheless it may give to certain communications
something of a conjoint and collective character, which may interfere
with our attempts at individual identification.
I have suggested these difficulties as possibly inherent in the very
nature of the unseen world with which we have to deal ;—quite apart
from any deliberate wish to deceive us,—such as may, of course, exist in
that world as well as in ours. There also, there may be " clashings and
entanglements "—opposing wills, confusion of memory, desire to banie
The Subliminal Consciousness. 73
and annoy. Both for good and for evil the possibilities which these
messages open out must long remain beyond our power to estimate or
to understand.
At this point the record may fitly be given of the varied experiences
of automatic writing which have been intermingled with Miss A.'s
crystal-visions, &c., already narrated in my chapter on " Sensory
Automatism." Such account as can here be produced is, from various
causes, very incomplete. It contains, however, specimens of several of
the problems of which mention has already been made. I may remind
the reader that this is a case with which I am intimately acquainted,
having carefully watched the progress of the phenomena for some
years. The following statements refer largely to facts within my own
knowledge, and these are given without exaggeration.
M. Aut 66.
Statement of Miss A. as to her Automatic Writing.
" 1. Origin of the Writing.—About eight years ago we first heard that
people could sometimes write without knowing what they wrote ; and that it
was supposed that departed friends could communicate in this way. We
determined to try whether any of us could write thus. We tried first with a
planchette, and when my mother's hand and my hand were upon it we got
writing easily. We did not at first get any message professing to come from
any spirit known to us.
" 2. Mode of Writing.—We soon ceased to use the planchette, and I was
able to write alone. I can now generally, but not always, write when I sit
quiet with a pencil in my hand. The writing often comes extremely fast ;
at a much faster rate than I could keep up by voluntary effort for so long a
time. I have to turn over the pages of the large paper which I generally
use, and to guard the lines of writing from running into each other, but
except for this there is no need for me to look at the paper, as I can talk on
other subjects while the writing is going on. I can always stop the writing
by a distinct effort of will. One curious thing is that my hand is never in
the least tired by automatic writing.
"3. Character of the Script.—I get various handwritings ; I may have had
a dozen altogether. I may divide these simply into two classes.
".4. Large and scrawly hands, which seem to aim at ease of writing,
rather than at individuality, and do not divide their words, but run on without
a break. Such are the hands of the so-called ' guides ' and of other
' spirits ' who write frequently. (Whatever the sources of this writing may be,
I must use the terms which the writing uses in order to avoid constant
roundabout phrases.) These large running handwritings do differ somewhat
both from my own handwriting and from each other ; but they most of
them have a general resemblance to a large, rapid scrawl of my own,
with an alteration in the shape of some letters so as to avoid breaks in
the continuous scrawl. I can almost always tell who is writing ; but there
are differences in energy, in little details of management of the paper, &c.,
which help me to distinguish, even before the end of the message comes,
when the signature shows me who has been writing. When the pronoun
1 we' is used there is no signature, as that represents ' the guides.'
74 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
" B. There are also several handwritings which keep a strongly individual
character, sometimes plainly of an assumed kind ; I mean writing in a way
in which no one would have written in life. Thus John Longland wrote in
an odd twisted, serpentine way and very small. We unluckily burnt all his
writings except one scrap, as we did not believe that he was a real person.
A spirit calling himself Detorno makes all the letters square.
" Then, again, when the guides are writing in reply to a private question
> put by some friend of mine they write wrong side up, so that the friend
sitting opposite to me can read the writing and I cannot. They seem to
write this way just as easily as the other. Sometimes there is mirror-
writing. Sometimes each word in a sentence is written backwards, and
sometimes the whole sentence is written backwards, beginning with the last
letter of the last word. In a few cases only have we thought that the hand
writing resembled what the supposed spirit wrote in life. This was especially
so in the case of a communication claiming to come from my grandfather,
whose handwriting I had never seen. My mother produced an old signature
of his, and certainly it was like ; but there was not enough of the automatic
writing to make us quite sure. When the 'spirit' or 'control,' or what
ever it is, leaves me I cannot make it come again, and writing from
spirits known to us on earth is rare in comparison with writing from the
guides, or from quite unknown spirits giving fantastic names. Sometimes they
give what they say were their real earth-names ; and then we can sometimes
identify them ; although there is, of course, this difficulty, that if they are
obscure we cannot find them, or if they are well-known, people who give mo
credit for more knowledge of history than I possess may think that I
knew all about them, and that the messages come from my own mind."
["I think Miss A. has considerably understated the number ofdistinctly
and remarkably different types of handwriting that have come through her
hand. I enclose a list of thirteen names of 'guides,' each one of whom
has a characteristic handwriting,—invariably the same, however great the
length of time that elapses between the communications. In addition to
these there have been many instances where personalities,—the so-called
dead, or occasionally the living—have written in distinct handwritings. —
H. M. Radnor."]
" 4. Drawings.—Sometimes my hand is moved to draw instead of to write.
The impulse in such cases is quite equally distinct. I never know what I
am going to draw till the picture is half finished. My hand begins at odd,
unexpected places ; for instance, with shading in a corner, or at the ear of a
profile ; and approaches the principal lines in a way which no artist would
choose. There is no rubbing out or alteration of what is once done, but if
whatever moves my hand does not like the picture it suddenly scrawls it all
over and begins again on another piece of paper. Sometimes twenty or
thirty pieces of paper have been spoilt in this way,—even when the picture
was all but finished ; so that if I think that a picture is pretty I sometimes
beg someone to take it away from under my hand for fear it should be
scrawled on. I have no natural gift for drawing, and have only received a
few lessons as a child. I could not even copy some of these automatic
drawings. I have never of myself painted in oils, but sometimes I am
moved to paint automatically in water-colour or oils. I put out a number of
The Subliminal Consciousness. 75
oil colours in a row, and my brush goes to them automatically and dabs one
wet colour on the top of another, making a picture which is odd enough, but
much less muddled than might be supposed ; in fact, artists have said that it
was curious that a distinct picture could be produced in that way. When I
paint thus there is no drawing or outline, only the brush-work. These
drawings and pictures have a certain boldness and strangeness about them,
but they are certainly not like the work of a regular artist.
"5. Connection of written toith otlier messages.—The writing sometimes
explains or completes other phenomena, as, for instance, figures seen, or
sentences begun by raps. Sometimes, on the other hand, raps will come when
I wish to have writing. But the writing will hardly ever explain or in any
way allude to what really most needs explanation, namely, the crystal-visions.
The guides who write seem to know nothing about these visions.
"6. Subject of the Writing.—The great mass of the writing consists of
teachings, as to religion and philosophy. This is what my guides seem to
wish to give, and it is strange that it should be so, as my own thoughts have
not been much directed to such matters.
" Another large part of the writing consists in a kind of fantastic, descrip
tion of the way in which a world was made. The name given with these
writings is Gelalius. I suppose that this is a kind of romance. It is very
different from anything that I should myself ever write or dream of, nor am
I at all fond of reading romances of that kind. The writing professes to be
copied from a book open at that particular chapter, and sometimes a passage
will be continued weeks or months after the first part of it was written, as if
the book had chanced to be open again at that same place.
"Some of the messages, however, deal with earthly matters. Some give
general advice, some give medical advice, and some show a knowledge of
things in the past or present which I do not possess. Some of these messages
have been curiously right ; some have been partly right, but confused or
interrupted ; and some have been wrong altogether. The sense of time
seems confused, so that it is hard to say whether the incidents are meant to
have happened long ago, or lately, or to be still in the future. Many of the
messages we have not tested, as they were about things which did not interest
us. Often, for instance, there would be messages about events in the news
papers which I had not thought or cared about.
" As to what I have called 'general advice,' I think that this has always
been good when it related to the conduct of the automatic writing itself.
I should be told, I mean, when to write and when not to write, and what
people's presence was desirable, and so forth. The advice is often quite
different from what we i/riWi ;—forbidding us to ask people whom we had
desired to ask. There has been one very curious case where we were
repeatedly told to 'send for' a gentleman whom I will call Mr. C. D., of
whom we knew nothing, except that we had seen his name in the papers in
quite a different connection. It so chanced that a friend of ours knew
Mr. C. D. and brought him to see us, but for some years there seemed to be
no particular result. Lately, however, Mr. C. D.'s presence has very greatly
helped the phenomena ; and the advice given so long ago has turned out
important in a way which we could not possibly have foreseen.
" On matters not connected with these phenomena I should always care
76 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
fully read what the writing told me, but I should not go by it unless it
seemed sensible. It does not always advise either what I wish or what I
think wise ; but generally it is wiser than I.
" 7. Medical Advice has often been given by a control calling himself
' Semirus,' and this has been often successful ; which is strange, since I am
quite ignorant of medicine, and often do not know the names either of
diseases or of drugs mentioned. Of course I cannot be quite sure that I
have never read the words, but certainly when I have written them I have
often not known what they meant.
" At other times the facts relating to the illness have been quite outside
my knowledge. One friend has given an instance of this kind [printed later] ;
but I have not liked to ask others, as what Semirus says is generally meant
for the questioner alone.
"8. Tlwti/1ht-traiisference.—The writing occasionally, but not often, tells
me of thoughts in the minds of persons present. One day a lady handed me
a letter, in a handwriting which I did not know. I held the letter in one hand,
and the other hand wrote, ' Bright metal and brown earth.' The letter
was from a gentleman whom I had never seen, and who committed suicide
by throwing himself on the rails in front of a railway engine. I think that
this message came from thought-transference, as I do not find that merely
holding letters in my hand tells me anything about their writers unless
someone is there who knows the content ; and even then I so seldom
succeed that I do not care to try experiments of this kind."
[Lady Brooke (the Ranee of Sarawak), who was present at the time, has
given me a written confirmation of this (quite recent) incident, for which I
have not pressed the owner of the letter, on account of the painful nature
of the circumstance.—F. W. H. M.]
"9. Clairvoyance.—I sometimes get messages which perhaps may be
called clairvoyant, telling me, for instance, where lost objects are, or warn
ing me of some danger at hand. Thus about September 20th, 1888, [this
incident was written down October 21st, 1889], my sister M. and I had
just finished dressing for dinner in the dressing-rooms leading from a large
bedroom. The maid had left the room. M. had left her dressing-room, and
was standing in the bedroom, when suddenly she called tc me : ' Get a bit
of paper; there are some raps.' I came in and took an envelope and
pencil, and at once the words came, by raps : ' Look to the candle or the
house will be on fire.' We saw that it was not the candle in the bedroom, so
we went into M. 's dressing-room, and found that her candle was so close
to a cardboard pocket depending from the looking-glass that it would have
been on fire in a moment. It was already smoking. No servant would have
come in for sometime." [Mrs. A. confirms as follows: "I heard of the
incident in my daughter's next letter."]
"Again, I was descending a dark corkscrew staircase at Longford, in August
or September, 1889, [account written October, 1889] when I heard a rapping
on the stair. It was persistent, and drew my attention. I looked about
with a candle, and at last saw a gold pencil-case of Lady Radnor's, with
which I was accustomed to write automatically, lying on a dark little landing
of the stair. I did not know that the pencil had been lost.
" 10. But the most puzzling cases are those where the message professes to
The Subliminal Consciousness. 77
be from some departed person, and tells some true things, but perhaps mixes
up some mistakes with them. ' Jack Creasy ' was a case of that kind. [See
Proceedings, XXIII., p. 513. We have since ascertained that the widow's
name is not Mary.—F. W. H. M.] I certainly had not read any newspapers
about his accident, and had no connection whatever with Greenwich or
Deptford. I can see no link, and I do not know either why the message
should have come at all, or why it should have come so confusedly. But
sometimes I do think that the message really comes from the person who
professes to communicate.
" Another frequent writer is a strange person to have come to us, as I
knew nothing about him, and should not have thought that we had anything-
in common. That is Lord Chancellor Hardwicke. He—or whatever it is
that takes that name—has become a sort of family friend. He has a distinct
character of his own, which is not quite what I should have expected in a
Lord Chancellor, for he is full of jokes and very bluff and outspoken. He
has given a number of facts about himself, names of friends, and laws about
marriage that he had made.
"One reason which makes me think that the messages come from out
side myself is the feeling which I have sometimes of rivalry or even conflict
between them. When I am writing there will occasionally be sudden
changes, as if some new personality had been able to get hold of the pencil.
And in one long case [John Black] there seemed to be spirits purposely try
ing to confuse each others' messages ; or perhaps one telling a story and
others simply trying to prevent us from hearing it.
' ' Again, if I see figures and then have writing which professes to come
from those figures, it seems to me natural to suppose that it does so come. "
I will now give some examples of motor messages, by writing and raps,
given through Miss A. Here, as in the case of Miss A.'s crystal-visions, I
am obliged to confine myself mainly to cases corroborated by the few friends
who have felt in the messages more than a merely personal interest. It
must, of course, be remembered, in justice to other friends, (who have often
carried off messages without even showing them to the writer), that much of
what has been thus written has dealt with very private matters.
The first message which I shall quote is evidentially interesting, on
account of the mere chance by which its truth was verified. It should be
premised that Miss A. has never been to Blankney, and is not acquainted
with the Chaplin family.
I. Lady Radnor writes under date January 15th, 1893 :—
" The following case has always struck me as particularly curious.
'' About 8years ago, when Miss A.'s powers had only quite recently shown
themselves, her automatic writing told me that I had two guides, ' Estelle '
and 'Silvo,'—spirits who accompanied me and took an interest in my welfare.
I did not think of this at first as a thing which could be either proved or
disproved. But one day, when a question was mooted as to whether ' spirit
guides' had ever lived on earth, I asked whether mine had done so, and was
told that Estelle had. I asked for her earth-name ; and as we were then
getting answers by raps (through Miss A.'s power) it was rapped out 'Loved
voices called me Anne.' I asked for the surname. C—H—A was rapped out.
78 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
As my maiden name was Chaplin I at once jumped to the conclusion that
that was the name meant. But the raps said decidedly No, and rapped out
Chambers. I had no associations with this name. I asked if connected with
my family ? 'Yes.' Any portrait ? ' Yes.' At Blankney i (my brother's
place). 'Yes.'
" Now I had spent much of my childhood at Blankney, and I had been
particularly fond of one picture there, representing a lady whose name I did
not know. It used to hang in the morning room, and then on the staircase,
and represented a lady in a red velvet gown with a. basket of cherries in her
hand. As a child I used to sit and talk to this picture and make a friend of
the lady with the cherries.
" So when I heard that the picture of my 'guide ' was at Blankney I hoped
it might be this lady, and asked, 'Is it the lady with the cherries?' 'Yes'
was eagerly rapped out. I at once wrote to my old nurse who was still at
Blankney, and who knew a good deal about the pictures, and asked her to
get the picture examined for any name which might be on it. She got the
picture taken down and carefully examined, but there was no clue. She told
me, however, that she thought she had heard a Mrs. S.—a connection of the
family, who knew the pictures better than anyone—say that the lady with the
cherries was a Miss Taylor. This disheartened me ; but I wrote to a friend
at the College of Heralds to ask whether the name Chambers occurred any
where in the Chaplin pedigree. He wrote back that there was no such name
in the pedigree.
" The same day that I got his letter I happened to meet Mrs. S. (whom I
had not seen for many years) in a shop in London. I knew that she had once
made a catalogue (which I had never seen) of the Blankney pictures ; so I
felt that here was my last chance. I asked her if she knew who the lady
with the cherries was. 'Oh, that is Lady Exeter,' she said, 'whose daughter,
Lady Betty Chaplin, married an ancestor of yours. ' ' Do you know what
Lady Exeter's maiden name was ? ' 'It was Mellish. ' I now lost all
hope, but I just asked : ' Has the name Chambers any association for you ? '
' How stupid I am ! ' she exclaimed, ' Lady Exeter was a Miss Chambers, of
Mellish ! ' My friend at the Heralds' College then looked in the Exeter
pedigree, and, sure enough, the lady with the cherries was Hannah
Chambers. H. M. Radnor."
" I was cognisant of all this, and attest the accuracy of the account.
"Radnor."
In a later letter Lady Radnor adds : " Personally I had always believed
' the lady with the cherries'to be someone (name unknown) who had married
a Chaplin ancestor. There was no Chaplin pedigree, and it was I who
suggested to my brother that he should ask ' York Herald ' (Mr. Gatty) to
draw one up ; and I therefore applied to Mr. Gatty as being the only person
who would know the names of the families connected by marriage with the
Chaplins. I knew that the great-grandmother was ' Lady Betty, ' ne'e Cecil :
but as in those days pedigrees and family history did not interest me, I had
never—and up to the present time never have—seen the Chaplin pedigree.
In any case the name Chambers would not appear in it."
II. The next case is typical of many similar trifling incidents.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 79
January lath, 1893.
" I have several times had reason to think that some intelligence writing
through Miss A. was aware of trifling circumstances happening to myself.
A good instance occurred the other day. I came back from hunting and
joined in a seance, where my so-called ' guide ' was communicating. I
asked ' Well, have you been with me in my run to-day ? '
" 'Yes,' was the answer, 'but you should have gone up the hill instead
of down.' 'Was Nancy right, then?' 'Yes.' Now, in point of fact we
had changed foxes that day by going down a hill instead of up, one hound,
alone, Nancy, running up hill on what was doubtless the original scent.
"Radnor."
January 16ft, 1893.
III. "The following writing was given at Longford, February 27th, 1890,
avowedly by ' Estelle ' :—
" ' You ask me whom I see in this habitation. I see so many shades and
several spirits. I see also a good many reflections. Can you tell me if there
was a child died upstairs ? Was there an infant who died rather suddenly 1
[Why ? ] Because I continually see the shadow of an infant upstairs, near
to the room where you dress. [A shadow?] Yes, it is only a shadow.
[What do you mean ? ] A shadow is when anyone thinks so continually of a
person that they imprint their shadow or memory on the surrounding
atmosphere. In fact they make a form ; and I myself am inclined to think
that so-called ghosts, of those who have been murdered, or who have died
suddenly, are more often shadows than earthbound spirits ; for the reason
that they are ever in the thoughts of the murderer, and so .he creates as
it were, their shadow or image ; for it would be sad if the poor souls
suffered, being killed through no fault of their own,— that they should be
earthbound ; though, remember, they very often are earthbound too.'
"With reference to the above communication I may say that an infant
brother of mine died of convulsions in a nursery which then occupied the
part of the house where the figure of the baby was said to have appeared.
I do not see any way in which Miss A. could have known either of the
death of my infant brother or of the fact that that part of the house had
previously been a nursery.
Radnor."
IV. A few further points connected with Longford may conveniently be
added here.
January loth, 1893.
" The following point should be added to the account of Miss A.'s vision
of the Long Drawing-room at Longford as a Chapel, which (as we knew) it
was in Lord Coleraine's time, although she had no means of knowing this.
" She remarked that there was a door where the altar ought to be (i.e., at
the east end), and that there was an altar between two of the side windows,
which she designated. None of us knew at that time where the altar had
been, but later on we found in the muniment-room, (which, of course, is
always kept locked), an old plan of Longford, in which the Long Drawing-
room is a chapel, and the altar is in precisely the place where Miss A.
located it. This is just like her putting the Cathedral altar in the place in
80 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
which, unknown to her, it used to be, when she saw the induction of Brian
Duppa. Radnor. "
January Ibth, 1893.
V. "It should be added to the account of Brian Duppa that Miss A.
subsequently in my presence pointed out to me a portrait, in a room and house
which she had never previously entered, as being the man whom she saw as
Brian Duppa.1 Although very short-sighted, she recognised the face and
figure at a few yards distance. I did not know the picture, and although I
have long-sight, I could see no name on it from where we sat. I went up
and examined it, and found that the name Brian Duppa was on it in small
letters. H. M. Radnor."
VI. The next case, so far as it goes, supports the view that the "douser's "
water-finding may be the result of a real motor message from the subliminal
self ; a thrill passing unconsciously through the organism and acting, by a
tightening of the muscles, upon the hazel-rod :—
January loth, 1893.
"Feeling some curiosity as to the alleged powers of water-finders or
diviners, I recently sent for a man who had much local repute of this kind,
and set him to find water in the park at Longford. His rod turned up in
various places where there may or may not be water, but when we came to a
place where I knew that there was water running through a brick conduit
underground, his rod gave no sign. I taxed him with this and he replied
that he could not find running water when it was enclosed in a conduit.
Miss A. was at Longford at the same time, and I asked her to try the rod,
which I myself cut from a hedge. She had never made the attempt before.
I placed her at some distance from the brick conduit and told her to go on
till she came to it. I took care not to give any indication. Exactly at the
right place the rod turned up. She then followed the hidden conduit ; when
ever she stepped off it the rod went down. Lady Radnor then tried her in
the Castle itself. She went into the central hall, which had been the court
yard. In one corner the rod went up strongly, having been going up a little
before. In my memory a pump had stood there ; but no one in the house,
except myself and my aunt, knew of the existence of this old well.
" Radnor."
VII. The following statement is from the Ran6e of Sarawak :—
January, 1893.
"In September, 1892, my maid, who was not known to Miss A., complained
of persistent pain in the neck and arm. She told me afterwards that she
had been afraid of paralysis. I asked Miss A. to let ' Semirus ' write
what was the matter with her. The maid came into the room. No one
said a word as to her symptoms, but Miss A.'s hand at once wrote in
'Semirus" handwriting: ' It is not paralysis, as you fear ; it is rheumatism ;
your bed ought to be moved from the window,' or words to that effect.
I went into the maid's room, which it so happened that I had never seen, as.
it was in a house which I had only rented for a short time, and I found in
1 Her words were : " Oh, thereis my Bishop 1 only his hair was brown and in thi»
picture it is grey-"
The Subliminal Consciousness. 81
fact that the bed was exposed to a severe draught. It was placed against
the window. I had it moved, and the rheumatic pain disappeared.
Margaret Brooke."
VIII. I give here an incident of which I was myself witness, and which
seems to me typical of a class of communications of which I have already said
something,—where information unknown to the automatist is given, on the
soi-dutant authority of some departed spirit ; but yet this information, so far
as true, is known to some person present, and when anything which goes
beyond the knowledge of persons present is asked for, the answer goes off into
mere guessing and vagueness. Note also the fact that these messages were
given by a distinct rapping sound in the table. This phenomenon is often
spoken of in spiritist journals as a very common one. For myself I may say
that having sat at tobies many hundred times, in readiness to welcome raps if
they appeared, I have frequently heard raps in the presence of paid mediums,
and I have frequently heard creaks of the table in the presence of my
own friends ; but only in the presence of some four or five non-profes
sional and trustworthy persons have I heard unmistakable raps, answering
questions, and producing upon my mind the conviction that no known agency
was concerned in producing them.
On this occasion the messages given were private enough to need an
alteration in the initials of the friends present. Besides Miss A., a sister,
and myself, there sat at the table Lady B. and the Hon. C. D. A Christian
name was clearly rapped out, which was recognised by Mr. C. D. as that of
his mother, not consciously known to any of the rest of us. Since, however,
the name was in the Peerage, it was of little evidential value. A message then
came as to Mr. C. D. 's efforts on behalf of a friend, for whom he was then
trying to get a post. "What kind of employment shall I get for him?"
" Island." " What island ? " "Jersey." " Can you mention anyone who will
help in this ? " " Lang " was rapped out, and then came many confused raps
and the message ceased.
Now Mr. D. was in reality trying privately to get a post in Jersey for his
friend,—about whom none of us knew anything. How easy, therefore, it
would be to report this sitting as follows : " Mr. D.'s mother announced her
self by raps, and gave advice on a private matter."
But now compare the classical case, if I may so term it, of the Rev. P.
and Mrs. Newnham, and consider how these replies might be explained on the
theory of mere thought-transference between living persons. In Mr.
Newnham's case we found that the automatic writing got at the questioner's
ideas gradually and imperfectly, and filled up gaps by random answers made
to look as interesting as possible. So here, in my view, some intelligence
not necessarily other than some part of Miss A. 's subliminal self readily
discerns in Mr. D. 's mind an idea so firmly fixed as his mother's name, and
takes that as an interesting source to which to ascribe the replies. It next
gets easily at the idea of helping the friend ; but the definite name Jersey is
harder to come at, and is preceded by island, a reply which could hardly
have been given save by someone groping for the clearer notion. Then
when the name of some helpful resident in Jersey is asked for—Mr. D.
himself now not knowing any such name—an attempt is made to rap out
the name which is in most minds the first which the idea of Jersey would call
a
82 Mr. F. W. E. Myers.
up. Senseless as this guess was, (for Mr. D. certainly did not expect Mrs.
Langtry to find posts for his friends), it was quite analogous to the random,
dreamlike associations and plays upon words which are characteristic of
subliminal messages of all kinds.
The next question, again, received an answer which might have been
credited to clairvoyance. Mr. C. D. handed Miss A. a ring (not that I
see reason to suppose that the ring made any difference) and simply said, "Tell
me about my friend now at a hotel in Paris, with whom this ring is
connected." Immediately raps spelt out the sentence, " Case for operation."
A few details of the disease were then given, which corresponded with what
Mr. C. D. knew, and which, where they went beyond his knowledge, admitted
of no proof.
I can hardly myself doubt that this knowledge also came from Mr. C. D.'s
mind, and not (as is usually professed in such cases) from actual inspection
of the patient.
It may, of course, be asked why experiments like this, which, even if
they prove nothing more than thought-transference, do at least seem to
prove that so definitely, are not constantly repeated. The answer is that
there are very few persons with whom they can be repeated ; and that Mr.
C. D.'s personality was in this case probably as essential as Miss A.'s. Mr.
D., though he cannot by himself obtain raps, has marked power of a psychical
kind, and is in fact the gentleman to whom Miss A. has above alluded as
having been demanded by her guides before she or her family knew any
thing of him beyond official mentions of his name in the papers. I can my
self vouch for the recurring scrawls, "Bring C. D."—"Bring C. D." which
puzzled the A. family some six years ago, when they certainly were not
aware of Mr. D. 's gift (then very slightly developed), and when it had not
consciously occurred to myself that good might result from the collocation
of the two sources of power.
IX. The next case which I shall give is a curious one, as involving (1)
rapB, (2) a crystal-vision, (3) an apparition seen by two persons, viz., Miss A.
herself and Mr. Harry de Windt, well known as a traveller in Russia. Un
fortunately no notes were taken, but I heard of the incident a few weeks
afterwards from Lady Brooke, Mr. C. D., Mrs. A. and Miss A. (all present
at the time), and a letter from Mr. de Windt confirms two of the main
points.
In September, 1892, on the occasion of the first meeting of Mr. de
Windt and Miss A., the latter wrote the word Doishowalinksky, which at
first was thought to be a sentence, but turned out to be a name well known
to Mr. de Windt.
On the same day a face appeared near Mr. C. D. which was clearly
seen by Miss A. and Mr. de Windt, and recognised by the latter, as stated
in a letter to me, dated October 5th, 1892: "I can only tell you that I
distinctly saw the face of an exile I am acquainted with, one Dombrowski,
who is (or was) located at Tomsk, in Western Siberia. A message was also
sent me " [from a Russian source ; but Mr. de Windt explains the inexpe-
dience of printing further particulars of this].
Miss A., on being afterwards shown a photograph of Dombrowski (not,
however, mixed with other photographs, as it should have been), recognised it,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 83
but said that the face as seen by her looked older and more worn ; in which
Mr. de Windt concurred. It is not known whether Dombrowski is dead
or alive.
On the same day Miss A. , looking in the crystal, saw a small man with
bright red hair and red face, a big stick, a long petticoat, and a fur cap,
walking in front of a little hut. Mr. de Windt recognised this figure .is
resembling a hill-man set to watch an isolated prisoner. These stunted hill-
men dye their hair with red clay.
A few days later (September 15th, 1892) a message was given by raps to
Lady Brooke (the Rane'e) : " Tell your brother (Mr. de Windt) that Shiskine
is the man to help him." Neither Miss A. nor Mr. de Windt had ever con
sciously heard of Shiskine, but in the St. James's Gazette of September 24th
they observed that M. Shiskine had received a certain high appointment,
which explained the message. His appointment had also been mentioned
in the Times of August 31st. It is, of course, possible that subliminal
memory may externalise itself by raps, as by other means.
X. Among the habitual "controls," "Lord Chancellor Hardwicke"is
almost the only one of sufficient historical mark to admit of our testing
the truth of his statements. He gave a list of the surnames of sixteen of
his friends ; and Miss Porter has been good enough to identify with proba
bility most of these. Most of the names (though not all) appear in Harris's
Life of Lord Hardtncke ; but in several cases there are reasons, not apparent
in the Life, which make it probable that there was more intimacy than
the incidental mention in the Life would imply. The case resembles the
biographies of musicians written automatically by Mr. Stainton Moses (see
Spirit Identity), which I hope to discuss on some later opportunity. The
tone of boisterous humour which runs through these messages is unlike Miss
A., but it must be remembered that in the " objectivation of types" so
often obtained by hypnotic suggestion, a part quite alien to the hypnotised
subject's character is often surprisingly well maintained.
XI. I will close this series for the present with a case which unites all the
perplexities of these inquiries in a singularly tangled form. According as
stress is laid on one or other of its aspects it may be regarded as one of the
weakest or as one of the strongest items of our present evidence. Against
it are the broad facts that the central story, if central story there be, never
got itself told at all ; that there were numerous inaccuracies in the fragmen
tary stories which teere told ; and that these included an impossible incident
(the experience of John Black, as I shall call him, in the hospital) which
points to an intentional mystification.
In favour of the case is, first of all, the fact that the communications do
not depend upon any one person. They are shared by Miss A. with four
other members of her family, and with the gentleman here called Mr. B.,
who is known to me, and whom I regard as an excellent witness, although
for official reasons, which seem to me adequate, he wishes his name to be
concealed.
Then again, we have the several mutually corroborative forms in which
the message was conveyed, raps—sounds, visions, and writing. And finally,
besides the inaccurate or incredible statements, and closely mixed up with
these, we have a considerable number of facta accurately given, and these
G 2
84 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
facts of the oddest character. The impression left upon those who took part
in these sittings was that they had here a fragmentary message, confused
by the very conditions of its transmission, and its confusion worse confounded
by some perverse or hostile agency ; but, nevertheless, reflecting certain true
facts, known to one or more minds altogether distinct from those of the
group who received the communications.
The account here quoted was written partly by Mr. B., and partly by
members of the A. family who were present.
lie John [Black]—Gertrude Tryon.
On Sunday, December 15th, 1889, while in church at morning service,
Miss A. and B. saw among other things a form in the pulpit, dressed in some
thing dark. We had some writing and were told that if we had a sitting that
evening the man would try and show himself and tell us what he wanted,
and that he had appeared in church to attract our notice. [Mr. B. tells me
that he has many times seen, as he believes, quite independently, the same
phantasmal figures which Miss A. has at the same time seen. —F. W. H. M.]
At 6.30 p.m. we sat round a strong square table in a darkened room, and
loud raps began almost at once. Very shortly Miss A. saw the figure of a
man lying on an ordinary hospital stretcher, and what appeared to be his
double standing beside it. B. at the same time saw the standing figure.
By loud raps we were told that his name was J. [Black].
Raps then continued : " Water-lane, Brixton."
Question : " What number ? " Answer : " Kendal Villas,"and then "2."
Miss A. now saw sort of magic lantern pictures at the end of the room, of
a station, lights, trains, &c.
A low indistinct voice now began to speak, but we could not make out
what it said.
The raps now continued, and in spite of great interruptions by the voice,
we made out the following :—
" Once dead through concussion of spine. St. Bartholomew's."
During this time the figure kept making signs of approval when his
raps were understood, and a very cold air blew at intervals over our hands.
At about this time we noticed another figure between Miss A. and B.,
evidently the one who was speaking so indistinctly that we could only make
" Yes " or " No " at times of what he said.
Question : " What can we do for you ? "
Answer : " Ask Gertrude for the " (we fancied " will ").
Q. : " Does Gertrude live at Kendal Villas ?" A. : " No."
Q. : " Do you know where she lives ? " A. : "Ask Dr. Fyfe to help."
Q. : " Can you give us Gertrude's address ? " A.: "No."
Q. : "Can you give us Dr. Fyfe's address?" A.: " Montpellier-square."
Q. : " Can you tell us the number 1" A. : "Yes " (we counted and they
stopped us at 4, and again at 2), " 42."
This conversation was rendered very difficult in places by the voice
interrupting, especially at the number of Dr. Fyfe's house. After this the
raps became so weak that it was suggested that the figure should make a
sign at the right letter, and this was carried out. A little diificulty was
experienced at first, but finally with some occasional raps the conversation
recommenced.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 85
Q. : " What was Gertrude's other name ? "
The voice said "Tryon" and the hand waved approval.
Q. : "When did you die?"
A. : "January 13th "(we gathered). "It was I that forgot Gertrude
when I had the accident. Pray find Gertrude and give her money to
live on. "
Q. : " Where did you see Gertrude last 1 " A. : " Richmond."
We had here to stop, as it was late. After the sitting, on looking in
a Blue-book we found the name and address: "Andrew Fyfe, M.D.,
M.R.C.S., 42, Montpellier-square, S.W." [Dr. Fyfe is, of course, in no
way connected with this inquiry, into which he enters only as responding
with prompt courtesy to questions about a patient.]
At the same table, about 9 p.m. on December 18th, raps again began,
but there seemed a great many different influences, all wishing to commu
nicate. The same figure appeared, and after a few minutes was able to rap
and sign to us, but throughout there was great difficulty.
J. [Black] said: "I want to tell you all, help me." We tried then to
make out on what line of railway he was travelling but could only make out
the following words :—
Q. : " What was the accident ? "
A. : "Train—collision—Victoria—station near."
Q. : " Where were you coming from 1 " A. : "Richmond."
Q. : " Did Dr. Fyfe help you then 1 "
A. : "No—Symons—in accident too."
Q. : " What do you want us to do for Gertrude ? "
A : "I owe her money. You must tell Dr. Fyfe to tell you that address,
he knows it. I owed her money, and ask if I left a letter about Gertrude."
Q. : " How much did you owe her ? " and we thought the answer was £5.
He then said, " Write to Kendal Villas."
Q. : "What is the name of the person who lives there now." A. : " [Black.]"
Q. : " What relation to you ? "
A. : " Wife"—we suggested widow—" No, wife."
The voice then got stronger a great deal and distinctly said :—-
" It is all quite right. Look for accidentJanuary 1st or December 31st.
During this sitting we had a paper and pencil on the table, hoping for
some direct writing, and we heard them moved about several times. We
asked if there was anything on the paper and the voice said, " Ernest has
written." We then struck a light and found written on the paper " J. [B] ."
The voice before we finished said, " I am George Smith, and am trying to
help: thank you. Going to write."
The guides wrote through Miss A. that George Smith was not a bad
spirit, though not very high ; that he had known J. [Black] and was anxious
to help him. They also said they fancied Gertrude Tryon was drowned, and
that she went to see Dr. Fyfe, either in November or December, 1888, by
J. [Black's] wish ; that she did not pay him, but gave him her address.
Wishing to follow this out, a telegram was sent to the London police
asking for news of J. [Black] and the following answer was received :—
" Brixton. Head Constable. December 19th, 1889.
"John [Black] has been stopping at 2, Kendal Villas, Water-lane.
86 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Married Miss [W.J occupier's daughter, Sunday last. Expected home next
Sunday. Present address unknown."
On December 20th a file of the Times was obtained and the following
account of a railway accident on December 31st, 1888, was found in it :—
Copied from the Times of January 1st, 1889:— . . . "The worst
case was that of a Mr. [Black] of Brixton, who received such serious injuries
that the doctor ordered his immediate removal to a hospital. He was
accordingly placed in a police ambulance, and this was put in the guard's van
of a train bound for the City. Mr, [Black] was taken to St. Bartholomew's
Hospital, where he now lies." . . . The paragraph stated that the collision
was between a L.C. and D. train in Loughborough Junction, going to
Victoria, and a L. and S.W. train from Richmond. A Dr. Simonds
attended the injured.
A telegram was then sent to the house surgeon, St. Bartholomew's
Hospital, and the following reply received :—
" [Black] left 11th January."
On the evening of December 21st we received the following communica
tion, partly by raps and partly by voice, the voice being stronger than
before :—
"The real J. [Black] is here ; this is me." "On January 7th, I was com
pelled to leave the body of J. [Black].' " J. [Black], my body was entered,
into by another." "I now am bodiless, do you not understand?" "I and
he are one." "Two in one body." "I married Gertrude Tryon." "Not
the other." "Yes, yes, help me—help me to make you understand."
Q. : " Were you married in church to Gertrude Tryon ? "
A. : "No I promised to marry her in January." "I will, I must get
help." We had said : " How can you make us understand what it is yon
want?" "I was insensible for seven days, and when I came to myself I
saw just the other in my body ; I could not get back, so have no power to
fulfil my promise."
Q. : " Can't you influence him (J. [Black] ), or get back into his body ? "
A. : "I can when he is terribly excited. I implore you to help me."
Q. : " Why are you so anxious about Gertrude ? "
A. : "She was an orphan, I used to meet her in Richmond Park. I
promised to meet her on New Year's Day."
Q. : " Was she a lady?"
A. : " No, she was a ' dancer ' at Liverpool ; a ' dancer ' is a worker in the
mills. "
Q. : " Can you tell us the name of the mill ? "
A. : " Darlings, I think, cannot be sure."
Q. : " What was her address in Richmond ? "
A. : "I think that she had lodgings in Castle-street."
Q. : "What number?" A. : "17."
Q. : " What is it you want us to do for her i "
A. : " You must, when you find her, place her somewhere ; she has no
friends, and it is my fault."
On the evening of December 22nd, at a sitting, by raps we were told :
"I must give an address for George Smith. Gertrude Tryon was at Bold-
street, Liverpool."
The Subliminal Consciousness. 87
Q. : " Can you give us the number ? " A.: "No."
Q. : " Will you tell us more? " A. : " Public-house—barmaid."
A letter received on December 26th says:—
" The principal street for shops is called Bold-street."
"42, Montpellier-square, S.W., December 26th, 1889.
" Dear Sir,—I remember the name Tryon, I fancy, but I cannot see it in
our books. I will have another look, however, through the day-book for
November and December, 1888, to-morrow, and let you know. There are
several names of [Black] in the book. Can you tell me where he lived 1
" Believe me, yours very truly, Andrew Fyfe."
December 28tfi,1889.—During the afternoon E. saw in the crystal a small
room, with only two chairs in it and torn curtains. In it was a young
woman, with a dark dress and dark hair, sitting with her back towards the
seer. She was sitting on one chair with her feet on the other, in a very
dejected attitude, and the following letters came " G. H. T. o [Black]."
After dinner that evening, among other things, a mist suddenly seemed
to us to form, and in it Miss A. saw the form of a young woman, dripping
with water, with her hair, which was long and black, hanging over one
shoulder, and the whole circle was startled by the most distressing moans.
The voice said then : "I am Gertrude Tryon, and I want to talk to you.
I threw myself into the water." Q. : "Was it in Richmond Park 1 "
A.: "About Richmond."
Q. : " Was it in the river 1" A. : "Yes."
Q. : " Can you give us the date V A. : " September 17th, 1889."
The figure which answered these questions and still had kept moving,
then faded away.
December 29th, 1889.—At a sitting after tea, towards the end of the time,
when we had had several other messages and a few words of direct writing,
raps, and voices, the spirit who gives the name of George Smith came. He
said : "J. [Black] will try and come but I will not let him ; I will make a
form." Then we saw a kind of indistinct mask or face on the table which
G. S. was evidently trying to make.
Q. : " Was what Gertrude Tryon told us last night correct 1 "
A. : " Yes, she is near, I can ask her questions."
Q. : " Are you dead ?" A. : " Yes."
Q. : " What were you ?" A. : " Ostler, Richmond."
Q. : " Whereabouts in Richmond ? " A.: " Castle Hotel."
Q. : " Do you know if there was any account of Gertrude Tryon's
suicide ?"
A. : " There was a notice in the Star, I think."
Q. : " Can you tell us what date ? "
A. : "Not certainly, but I think September 19th."
Q. : " Is it the woman whose body was found in the Thames ? "
Here the answers became rather involved and we could not make out if
he was speaking of Gertrude Tryon or someone else.
A. : "I can tell you who made (did ? ) it ; she threw herself in and Long
Jack pulled her out. He took her to Bermondsey and from there to Chelsea ;
from there I cannot trace her, and that was early in September."
Q. : " Was she alive, or did he take her body 1"
88 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
A. : "(Alive) first ; the 17th September was killed."
Here we had to leave off.
We had a sitting on the 31st, and after other things by the crystal and
raps we got this message : " Will you be careful of what G. Smith tells you ?
he is not the best of spirits, he is one who knows more of G. Tryon than
anyone else ; it will not be any use for him to try to deceive you for you
will find him out ; we are afraid that Long Jack is only an alias of G. Smith."
On sending to Richmond to know if there is a Castle Hotel, we learn
that there was one, but it has been pulled down.
On January 1st got another answer from Dr. Fyfe.
"Dear Sir,—I have looked carefully through our books for November
and December, but I cannot see the name of Gertrude Tryon ; I remember
the name Tryon, but a number of patients used to come to me whose names
were not mentioned in the books afterwards. If you could give me any
further particulars of her and [Black], I should be only too glad to try and
trace them.
" December 30th, 1889. "Andrew Fyfe."
On January 3rd, when C. and Miss A. had gone up to bed, Miss A. had
loud raps in her room, and going to C.'s room tried to write but could get
nothing, so sat at a little table. This message was rapped out: "Willow-
walk, Bermondsey."
Q. : " Who are you ? " A. : " Gertrude Tryon. "
Q. : " What do you want to say ? " A.: "Baker met ."
Here the raps broke off and we could get no more.
On January 4th, we heard from Liverpool :—
"Sir,—I have to acknowledge the receipt of your inquiry of the 2nd,
and to inform you that there is no hotel or public-house in Bold-street, and
our directory gives no manufacturer or mill-owner of the name of Darling.
By the enclosed circular you will see we are precluded from making any
inquiry.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
On January 5th were told by "writing": "You must remember that
in all communications there are those who try and tell you exactly oppo
site from what they ought, to try to stop you from finding out the truth ;
keep everything, it will do more good in proving that you get false and
true. There are two sides to every question, but you need not think that
because all is not to be found out directly there is not the whole truth at
the bottom."
On January 7th, after tea, B. and Miss A. took a small table, placing the
crystal on it. First was seen in the crystal a cart with two men and a
woman (G. T.) in it ; the man who was sitting between the driver and the
woman was clean shaven and had a dark blue cap on. They seemed to be
driving through a square and along a narrow street, into what we were told
(by raps) was Willow-walk. The cart stopped next door to an arch ; G. T.
went in through the door. By raps we then got, "Baker is shortly out
of prison." Then again in the crystal, G. T. appeared to be sitting at
the back of a large yard full of carts, as if she were hiding. The entrance
seemed to be through the archway. Then was rapped out twice, " Stores in
(i
"G. Williams
(Chief Superintendent).
The Subliminal Consciousness. 89
Willow-walk." Then two tin canisters appeared in the crystal, held in
someone's hand, and the words "Baker stole " were rapped out. Then we
asked some questions and were answered by raps :—
Q. : "Who is Baker?"
A. : "Baker was in prison for stealing ; he knows about G. Tryon."
Q. : " How does that help us 1 "
A. : " Ask anyone who lives in Willow-walk if they know about Baker
who was found stealing."
Q. : " How long ago 1 " A. : " Not sure—about four months perhaps."
Q. : "But still how will that help us ? "
A. : "It gives you a clue, but be very careful if you talk to Baker; he
will not let you know he knows, he will hide it."
Q. : " Where was Baker ? " (or, where did he steal).
A.: " Van depository in Willow-walk. "
The following is a description of Gertrude Tryon as she appeared in the
crystal, also at the sitting :—Very nice looking, pale complexion, dark eyes,
black hair brushed off the face ; very straight features ; rather long face
with scar over right eye ; plain gold rings in her ears ; hands long and thin ;
probably left-handed ; in the crystal was seen with black stuff dress, black
buttons, and steel centres.
(While we were writing out this description directly after we had got it,
there were loud thuds on the screen behind us, and a noise as if someone
were talking far away, heard by all in the room ; also loud knocks the other
side of the room.)
We have found that there is a Willow-walk, Bermondsey, and also there
is a Pickford's van depository in Willow-walk.
On writing to Richmond for the first three weeks' local papers in Septem
ber, all were sent up to the 15th or 16th by Edward King. On writing
again for the 17th and 18th, the dates required, the following answer came
back from Edward King: "We regret we have no papers for the dates
you refer to." We sent for the Star evening paper of these dates, and they
were also out of print.
We learn on inquiry that there are two Bakers among a gang of burglars ;
one is caught and the other still at large.
On January 30th, a letter came from a friend who was making inquiries
as follows :—
" A detective came here yesterday with information from Scotland Yard
about Baker ; he was, it appears, employed on the railway and was convicted
not long since of stealing a can of milk, somewhere in Willow-walk, Ber
mondsey, and is still undergoing his months' L. H. L. "
On February 15th, 1890, Miss A. and B. again obtained the following
answers to questions, sitting at a small table alone, and the communications
coming from George Smith :—
" That man that knows about Gertrude Tryon. I want to find one called
Sayce, he was with Gertrude ; find him ; he was with her in Liverpool."
Q. : " Where is he to be found ? "
A. : " He was last in Pentonville-street, N.W."
Q. : " What had he to do with Gertrude ? "
A : "He worked with her."
90 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Q. : "Where?"
A. : " Bar in pastry-cook's shop in Bold-street, Liverpool."
Q. : "What isthe name of the shop?" A. (after much trouble): "Howard."
About 3 a.m. on the night of the 15th February, 1890, Miss A. was
awakened by rapping and shaking at the end of her bed on the wood. She
asked who was there ?
A. : " George Smith. I will tell truth; listen. Helped Gertrude Tryon,
kill chUd."
Q. : "Where?" A. : "Richmond." Q. : "How?" A. : "Chloroform."
Q. : "You are telling stories. " A. :" Truth, I will confess." Q. :"When?"
A.: "August." Q. : "How did they kill it?" A.: "Chloroform."
Q. : " Where did they get it ? " A. : " Won't tell." Q. : "You must tell
me." A. : "Don't know." Q. : "Unless you tell me where you got it I
shall believe you are telling lies." A. : "Sayce got it." Q. : "Where did
he get it ? " A. : " Crane-court. " Q. : " Where is that ? " A. : " City. "
Q. : "Where in the City?" A.: "Quick-street, no, Fleet-street."
Q. : " What was the name of the shop ? " A. : " Can't tell." Q. : " You
must." A. : " Well, shall go to the other, he will help me."
On February 16th, 1890, B. and Miss. A. sat at a small table, and got
the following by raps :—
Q. : " What are we to do about this case ? "
A. : " You must try to find the body—read sen-ice."
Q. : " WasG. T. drowned?"
A. : "No, she was murdered."
Q. : " Tell us what to do to find her."
A. : " She never came from Bermondsey."
Q. : " Who murdered her ? "
A. : "George Smith."
Q. : " AVill you tell us how and where G. S. died ?"
A. : "Yes, though I will not pretend to know the name of the vessel ;
he went to Liverpool,— to the docks, and got a place on board ship. I only
know he was brought before the highest tribunal—God's. "
Q. : " Can you tell us where G. T.'s body is ? "
A. : "Willow-walk—in a shed—stable—near vans ; Pickford's yards."
On March 14th, 1890 (Friday), Miss A. went with a friend to Willow-
walk, Bermondsey. After walking nearly down the whole street without
finding anything like what she had seen, she suddenly recognised the grocery
stores she had seen in the crystal. She could not find the archway, but went
straight into the yard where Pickford keeps his vans and packs ; and after
going some way she found the archway she had seen close by the loading-
place, and recognised it as having seen it in the crystal.
On March 25th, B., Miss A., and A. W. sat at a small table, and got
the following communications by raps :—
" E. (Emily ? ) Joyce must be found."
Q. : " Where does she live ? "
A. : " She lived last in Wimpole-street as caretaker."
Q. : " What number ? " A. : "39."
Q. : " Who was she caretaker to ? "
A. : " Charwoman also at the church."
The Subliminal Comciomness. 91
Q. : " Where is the church 1 " A. : " Raine-street."
(Here George Smith came and interrupted and had to be sent away.)
Q. : " Where is Raine-street ? "
A. : "E.C. Chap. Little Bethel."
They could then get no more, so left off. Miss A. sat down to write out
what had been given, and the raps continued on the writing table. "You
will find E. Joyce by applying to rooms, Whitecross Mission, Upper Nine."
On sending for a P.O. Directory it was found that there is a mission
room at 199, Upper Whitecross-street.
On March 31st, 1890, B. and Miss A. sat at a small table and got the
following by raps :—
" From Gertrude Tryon. I must find rest. Murder it was ; my body
lies there—the river—and I was made to put the child's body in the yard ;
it is there now. I can never get help."
Q. : " Then it is the child's body that is in Pickford's yard 1 How did
you die ? "
A.: " I was murdered."
Q. : " Where is your body ? "
A. : "They cut my body up, they put the pieces wi "
Here it broke off and no more raps could be obtained.
A few particulars may be added to this jumble of facts incomprehensibly
accurate and fictions absurdly palpable.
1. John [Black's] accident and illness.
We owe to the kindness of the Surgical Registrar of St. Bartholomew's
the following copy of an entry in Case-book of patients under Mr. Morrant
Baker, 1888 :—
" December 31st, 1888. 3856. John [Black], aet. 21, safe-maker. He was
in train which collided with another on day of admission. Insensible for
some time, but not when he came in. Came in suffering from shock and
pains in the head."
Mr. Black had moved from the address which was correctly given by
raps in the case above cited ; but Dr. A. T. Myers, after some difficulty,
succeeded in interviewing him at his new home on February 25th, 1893,
and reports thus as to the effects of the accident.
" He looked about 25 or 26 years of age. The eyeballs were slightly
prominent, the pupils regular, equal, rather smaller than normal. He said
he had never quite got over the accident. Since then he had been somewhat
an altered man. He had had to do lighter work than that of a safe-maker,
which was his business at the time of the accident. He had headaches at
times and his sight was not so clear as before the accident. He remembered
very little of the accident, or of the days he spent in hospital. He said in
reply to my questions that he did not suffer from walking or talking in his
sleep. He was very little inclined to be communicative, and in fact, rather
suspicious as to the reasons of my visit. "
It thus appears that [Black's] case was somewhat more severe than the
first account indicated, and that there was a period of unconsciousness.
2. Upper Whitecross-street. Mr. G. A.Smith reports (May 28th, 1890) :—
" I went to this street, which has recently been renumbered, and what was
92 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
199 is now 98 and 99. I find that up to April in this year a mission was
carried on at 199, but after that month it moved to large premises built on
purpose in Errol-street. The missionary in Errol-street assured me that no
Mrs. Joyce had ever been connected with them in any way."
3. Crane-court. No chemist's shop in Crane-court, Fleet-street.
4. Raine-street. This street is now E.G., but E. runs from Old Gravel-
lane, Wapping. A church in Old Gravel-lane, a few yards before one gets
to Raine-street.
It is not easy to frame a hypothesis which will account for such
a case as this, with its odd fragments of knowledge or vision, and the
dream-like vagueness and shadowiness of the story which connects
them. It is like a collective dream,—for be it remembered that the per-
cipience here is shared by several persons,—working upon a foundation
of facts, some of which may perhaps be referred to the latent memory of
some of the persons concerned. At any rate the reader can hardly be
too often reminded that this hypothesis of subliminal memory must be
kept closely in view in considering all retroeognitive messages.
I proceed to quote a series of messages which afford an interesting
field for the discussion of that hypothesis. The automatist, who
must here be called Mrs. R., is a lady well known to me for some
years, and to whom I was first introduced by Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood
(the cousin and brother-in-law of Charles Darwin, and himself a well-
known savant), who has here reported certain messages obtained in his
presence, and partly through his co-operation. Mrs. R., and her sister
Mrs. V., now deceased, were for many years among Mr. Wedgwood's
most valued friends. There can be no more question in my mind as to
Mrs. R.'s scrupulous good faith than as to that of Mr. Wedgwood him
self in endeavouring to recall the utmost that they hod ever known of
the personages who professed to be writing through the help of the two
human hands. The question is one of subliminal memory ; and as to
this it may be remarked that Mr. Wedgwood's reading was wide,—but
that he never, so far as I know, showed any automatic gift, nor ob
tained writing except with one of these two ladies. On the other
hand, Mrs. R.'s residing has not been wide in range ; and both Mrs. R.
and Mrs. V. had many psychical experiences,—most of them of a private
nature,1—in which Mr. Wedgwood was not concerned. The automatic
impulse seems to have come from tliem ; but it may be that Mr. Wedg
wood's presence modified the character of the messages obtained. I
give first a general account by Mr. Wedgwood of the mode of experi
ment.
My experience in planchette-writing has been mainly acquired in sitting
with two sisters, whom I will call Mrs. R. and Mrs. V., of whom the
younger, Mrs V., has far the stronger influence in producing the writing.
1 See, however, S.P.R. Journal, Vol. IV., p. 293, for two experiences of Mrs. V.'s.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 93
With her the board in general begins to move much sooner and in a more
vivacious way than with her elder sister. When the two sit together the
board moves rapidly along, like a person writing as fast as he can drive,
while with me and one of the sisters the action is often feeble and labouring.
But neither of the sisters can obtain anything whatever when they sit by
themselves. The board remains absolutely motionless under the hands of
the solitary operator.
When trying for writing we sit opposite each other at a small table, I with
my right hand, my partner with her left on the planchette, while the writing
produced is upright to me, and upside down to my partner, from whom,
however, the effective influence seems to proceed. The precise nature of
that influence is not very easy to understand, and is, I think, very
commonly misapprehended. Writing by planchette is often called
"automatic," and the pencil is conceived as being worked by the muscular
action of the sitters, under the guidance of a blind impulse, as little under
stood by them as the finished result is foreseen by a pair of birds instinc
tively engaged in the construction of their first nest. But this is directly
opposed to the experience of myself and my partners. When I am sitting at
planchette with one of them, I hunv that I am merely following the move
ment of the board with my hand, and not in any way guiding it, my only
difficulty being to avoid interfering with it. It seems to me exactly as if my
partner, in whom I have perfect confidence, was purposely moving the board
and I allowing my hand to follow her action, interfering with it as
little as possible. And she gives to me an exactly corresponding account of
her own share in the operation. Thus we give to the outside world our
united testimony of a fact which, as far as each of us is concerned, lies with
in our own direct knowledge, viz. , that the writing traced out by the pencil
is not produced by the muscular exertion of either of us.
We have, then, in planchette-writing, if our account is to be believed, the
manifestation of an agency invisible to us, yet capable of moving the bodily
pencil either in mere scribbling or in such a way as to fix an intelligent mes
sage on the paper.
The first case which I shall give is in the words of Mr. Wedgwood,
in the Journal for December, 1889.
M. Aut. 673.
Whenever I have an opportunity, perhaps once or twice a year, I sit at
planchette-writing with my friend, whom I will call Mrs. R., a most obser
vant witness in whom I have entire confidence. We sit opposite each other
at a small table, each resting the fingers of one hand lightly upon the board,
and when the board begins to move, allow our hand to follow the movement
freely without interfering with it in any way.
The following account of our last sitting, on June 26th, is from the
journal of Mrs. R., written the same evening, transcribing the part of plan
chette from the actual writing, and filling in our share of the investigation
from immediate memory.
Extract from journal of Wednesday, June 26th, 1889, and copy of plan-
chttte-writing with Mr. Wedgwood :—
" A spirit is here to-day who we think will be able to write through the
medium. Hold very steady, and he will try first to draw."
94 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
We turned the page and a sketch was made, rudely enough of course,
but with much apparent care.1
" Very sorry can't do better. Was meant for test. Must write for you
instead.—J. G."
We do not fully understand the first drawing, taking it for two arms and
hands clasped, one coming down from above. Mr. Wedgwood asked the
spirit of J. G. to try again, which he did.
Below the drawing he wrote : "Now look." We did, and this time com
prehended the arm and sword.
"Now I will write for you if you like."
Mr. W. : "What did the drawing represent ? "
"Something that was given me."
I said : " Are you a man or a woman 1 "
"Man. JohnG."
Mr. W. : " How was it given to you ? "
"On paper and other things. . . . My head is bad from the old
wound I got there when I try to write through mediums."
Mr. W. : " We don't know J. G. Have you anything to do with us ? "
" No connection."
Mr. W. said he knew a J. Giffard, and wondered if that was the name.
"NotGiffard. Gurwood."
Mr. W. suggested that he had been killed in storming some fort.
" I killed myself on Christmas Day, years ago. I wish I had died
fighting."
" Were you a soldier ? "
"I was in the army."
" Can you say what rank ? "
" No. ... It was the pen did for me, and not the sword."
The word pen was imperfectly written, and I thought it was meant iorfall.
I asked if this was right ?
"No."
Mr. W. : "Is the word pen ? "
" Yes ; pen did for me."
We suggested that he was an author who had failed, or had been
maligned.
"I did not fail. I was not slandered. Too much for me after . .
pen was too much for me after the wound."
" Where were you wounded, and when did you die ? "
" Peninsula to first question."
We were not sure about the word Peninsula, and asked him to repeat.
" I was wounded in the head in Peninsula. It will be forty-four years
next Christmas Day since I killed myself. Oh, my head. ... I killed
myself. John Gurwood."
"Where did you die?"
1 These sketches were sent with the account, but are too large to be reproduced
here. For evidential purposes, Mr. Wedgwood's sketch, made before he had ascer
tained what Colonel Gurwood's crest was, and which is given below, is sufficient.—Ed.
Journal,
The Subliminal Consciousness. 95
"I had my wound in 1810. I cannot tell you more about myself. The
drawing was a test."
We asked if the device was intended for his crest.
"I had it seal."
" Had it anything to do with your wound ? " (I cannot remember the
exact form of this question.)
" It came from that and was given me. Power fails to explain. Remem
ber my name. Stop now."
The only person besides ourselves present at the sitting was Miss H., an
aunt of Mrs. R.'s, and none of us knew anything of Colonel Gurwood be
yond the fact of his having edited the despatches of the Duke of Wellington,
not even that his name was John. It is possible that I might have heard
of his suicide at the time that it occurred, without its making any impression
on me, but I am sure I did not read such an obituary notice as would be
published in the Times, and when my attention was directed to his editorial
work 18 or 20 years afterwards I did not know whether he was alive or dead,
and was entirely ignorant of his military career. I never read any history
•of the Peninsular War, and am perfectly certain that I never had an oppor
tunity of seeing Gurwood's crest, or knowing anything about it.—H.W.
The following is the account Mr. Wedgwood wrote at the first seance at
the time :—
June 26<A, 1882.
Had a sitting at planchette with Mrs. R. this morning. Planchette said
there was a spirit there who thought he could draw if we wished it. We said
we should be glad if he would try. Accordingly P. made a rude attempt at a
hand and arm proceeding from an embattled wall and holding a sword. A
second attempt made the subject clearer. P. said it was meant for a test.
The spirit signed it "J. G.," no connection of any of ours, he said. We
gradually elicted that his name was John Gurwood, who was wounded in the
Peninsula—in 1810, and killed himself on Christmas Day, 1845. It was not
the wound, but the pen that did it.
Something like that.
July 5th, 1889.
I made the foregoing memorandum the same day, having very little ex
pectation that there would be any verification. H. Wedgwood.
Further Extracts from Mrs. R.'s Journal.
Friday, September 27th.
" Mr. Wedgwood came, and we had two sittings in the afternoon and even.
96 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
ing. I think the same spirit wrote throughout, beginning without signature ;
but when we asked the name, writing (after some struggle and illegibility)
'John Gurwood.'
"The effort was at first incoherent, but developed into the following sen
tences :—
" ' Sword—when I broke in, on the table with plan of fortress—belonged
to my prisoner ; I will tell you his name to-night. It was on the table when
I broke in. He did not expect me ; I took him unawares. He was in his
room, looking at a plan, and the sword was on the table. Will try and let
you know how I took the sword to-night.'
" In the evening after dinner.
" 'I fought my way in. His name was Banier' (three times repeated).
' The sword was lying on the table by a written scheme of defence. Oh,
my head. Banier had a plan written out for the defence of the fortress.
It was lying on the table, and his sword was by it.'
" To a question :—
" 'Yes ; surprised him.'
'' Mr. Wedgwood thinks the name of the Governor of the fortress of Ciudad
Rodrigo was Banier ; but he says this would not be a test, as he knew it. He
is going to see if he can find anything in Napier's Peninsular War corrobora
tive of what is said about the sword.
" ' Look. I have tried to tell you what you can verify.' "
Mr. Wedgwood reports his verification as follows :—
"When I came to verify the message of planchette I speedily found that
Colonel Gurwood, the editor of the Duke's despatches, led the forlorn hope
at the storming of Ciudad Rodrigo, in 1812 [note error in date], ' and re
ceived a wound in the skull from a musket ball which affected him for the
remainder of his life.'—Annual Register, 1845. In recognition of the bravery
shown on that occasion he received a grant of arms in 1812, registered in
the College of Arms as having been passed ' upon the narrative that he
(Captain G.) had led the forlorn hope at Ciudad Rodrigo, and that, after the
storming of the fortress, the Earl of Wellington presented him with the
sword of the Governor, who had been taken prisoner by Captain Gurwood. ' 1
" The services thus specified were symbolised in the crest, 'Out of a
mural coronet, a castle ruined in the centre, and therefrom an arm in
armour embowed, holding a scimitar. ' 2
"It is plainly this crest that is aimed at by planchette in his very rude
design, which represents the arm and sword as issuing from the mural
coronet alone, omitting the ruined castle as too complex a subject for the
powers of the designer. The drawing was given merely as a test, and if it
pointed unmistakably to the Gurwood crest it would fulfil its purpose.
" In accordance with the assertion of planchette, Colonel Gurwood killed
himself on Christmas Day, 1845, and the Annual Register of that year,
after narrating the suicide, continues : ' It is thought that this laborious
undertaking (the editing the despatches) produced a relaxation of the
nervous system and consequent depression of spirits. In a fit of despondency
1 Information received from the College of Arms, July 15th, 1889.
■ The Book of Family Crests, Washbourne, 1856.
The Subilminal Consciousness. 97
the unfortunate gentleman terminated his life.' Compare planchette :
' Pen was too much for me after the wound.' "
I continue the quotation from Mrs. R.'s journal :—
Mr. W. : "Can you tell me where else to look ? "
" I have no power to direct you. We have exhausted, but I wished to
tell you about poor Quentain ... to tell you a secret of poor Quintain's,
which is on my mind. It might once have made a difference ; but not now."
We had a difficulty in reading the name. Mr. W. thought it Quinlon,
and asked if this was right ?
" Not quite : a t. . . . Quentain. Not quite [right], but nearer : try
again to-morrow."
Mr. W. : "Is power exhausted now, and shall we stop 1 "
"Yes."
Saturday, September 28th.
Mr. Wedgwood and I sat again this morning. First came some pre
liminary scribbling and circling, and then the right spelling of the name at
which John Gurwood was trying last night.
"Quentin. I knew him, and a secret of his that might have made a
difference, but I was pledged."
Mr. W. : " Tell us what the secret was ? "
"I should like to try."
Mr. W. : " What difference would it have made to you ? "
"Might have done to him : on my mind."
Then followed a word here and there among much that was illegible. I
copy what we succeeded in reading. " in the army scrape
the sake of another very foolish, but nothing wrorlg for
verdict was unfortunately what there was let me go on, I am
trying say that, but quite mistaken case in all its his com
mission of second (company ?) private soldier going out gave to his
Colonel very strong feeling about it all."
The above filled four pages. We pondered over it, but could not
make out any more. When planchette was put back, the following was
volunteered :—
'' Tell James I remember him quite well. He will recollect about Quen-
tin's trial."
Mr. Wedgwood's friend, Captain James, of course, was meant. Mr. W.
said he would write and ask him ; but did the writer mean that Captain
James knew the secret 1
" No one knew it." (Two lines illegible.) " James will tell you, I have
not power. He was tried by court martial."
Mr. W. : " This Quentin was in the army then ? "
" Yes. rest of them would have but 1 cannot write plainly in
answer, though I try. I wanted to tell you about poor Quentin, but have
not power without further practice. I knew a secret of his at the time of
his scrape conduct offices . The court martial 1 did not."
Mr. Wedgwood here suggested we should stop for a time, to see if rest
would increase the power. We sat again for a few minutes before lunch,
directly after which he left by train ; but the control was then different, and
the few words written did not appear to have any special interest or meaning.
a
98 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Mr. Wedgwood writes on October 31st, 1889 :—
I find that there was a famous court martial on Colonel Quentin in
October, 1814, in consequence of a round robin signed by 24 of his officers.
I had a vague recollection of the name of Colonel Q. as a friend of George IV.,
and something must have turned up about the court martial in the early twen
ties when the 10th Hussars became notorious, as I found I had heard of the
round robin. The accusation, too, was of a want of proper directions to his
subordinates in action, so no reticence of anybody could have made any
difference, and he was himself the Colonel of the regiment.
With respect to the capture of Banier, the only chance of verification
would be from the family, and Miss Gurwood has not answered my letter.
[Captain James writes to me from 10, Hereford-road, June 29th, 1891 :—
''About the year 1830 my regiment was quartered at Portsmouth, and Colonel
Gurwood was then on the staff of the garrison there. The Colonel was an
honorary member of our mess, and dined with us nearly every day. I
remember I used to be very fond of sitting next to him, and conversing with
him about the various events that occurred during the Peninsular War. Of
course the Quentin trial must have taken place when I was a mere child, as
1 was born in 1804."—F.W.H.M.]
Mr. Wedgwood gives in the Journal for November, 1890, a case
of a somewhat similar character.
M. Aut. 676.
Extract from Mrs. R.'s Journal.
October 10th, at , Mr. Wedgwood and I sitting. The board moved
after a short pause and one preliminary circling.
"David—David—David—dead 143 years."
The butler at this moment announced lunch, and Mr. Wedgwood said to
the spirit, " Will you go on for us afterwards, as we must break off now 1 "
"I will try."
During lunch Mr. Wedgwood was reckoning up the date indicated as
1747, and conjecturing that the control was perhaps David Hume, who he
thought had died about then. On our beginning again to sit, the following
was volunteered :—
" I am not Hume. I have come with [Mrs. V.]. I was attracted to her
during her life in America. My work was in that land, and my' earthly
toil was cut short early, as hers has been. T died at thirty years old. I
toiled five years, carrying forward the lamp of God's truth as I knew it."
Mr. Wedgwood remarked that he must have been a missionary.
" Yes, in Susquehannah and other places."
" Can you give any name besides David ? "
"David Bra—David Bra—David Brain—David Braine—David Brain."
Mr. W. : " Do you mean that your name is Braine 1 "
" Very nearly right."
Mr. W. : "Try again."
" David Braine. Not quite all the name ; right so far as it goes . . .
I was born in 1717."
Mr. W. : " Were you a native of America ?"
" (Illegible) My native land. The Indians knew many things. They
heard me, and my work prospered. In some things they were wise."
The Subliminal Consciousness. 99
Mr. W. : " Are you an American ? "
"America I hold to be my country as we consider things. I worked
at " (sentence ends with a line of D.'s).
Here Mr. Wedgwood felt tired, and Miss Hughes proposed that she and
I should go for a walk while he rested. When we came in Mr. Wedgwood
said he thought it had come into his head who our control was. He had
some recollection that in the 18th century a man named David Brainard was
missionary to the North American Indians. We sat again, and the follow
ing was written :—
"I am glad you know me. I had not power to complete name or give
more details. I knew that secret of the district. It was guarded by the
Indians, and was made known to two independent circles. Neither of them
succeeded, but the day will come that will uncover the gold."
It was suggested that this meant Heavenly truth.
" I spoke of earthly gold."
Mr. Wedgwood said the writing was so faint he thought power was failing.
" Yes, nearly gone. I wrote during my five years of work. It kept my
heart alive. "
Mr. Wedgwood writes :—
"I could not think at first where I had ever heard of Brainard, but I
learn from my daughter in London that my sister-in-law, who lived with me
40 or 50 years ago, was a great admirer of Brainard, and seemed to have an
account of his life, but I am quite certain that I never opened the book and
knew nothing of the dates, which are all correct, as well as his having been
a missionary to the Susquehannahs."
In another letter Mr. Wedgwood writes :—
"I see the name is Brainerd, not ard, as I had supposed, and this removes
a difficulty in the writing. Planchette had written Braine, and said that
was right as far as it went, which it would not have been if the name had
been Brainard. My daughter has sent me extracts from his life, stating that
he was born in 1718, and not 1717 as planchette wrote. But Mrs. It.'s
Biographical Dictionary says that he died in 1747, aged 30."
[Mrs. R. writes to me that she had no knowledge whatever of David
Brainerd before this incident.—F. W. H. M.]
Extract from Biographical Dictionary sent by Mr. Wedgwood :—
Brainerd, David. A celebrated American missionary, who signalised
himself by his successful endeavours to convert the Indians on the Susque
hanna, Delaware, etc. Died, aged 30, 1747. Mr. Wedgwood adds :,—
It is perhaps noteworthy in connection with the last sentence of the
planchette-writing that in the life of Brainerd by Jonathan Edwards
extracts given from his journal show that he wrote a good deal, e.g., " Feb.
3, 1744. Could not but write as well as meditate," &c. "Feb. 15, 1745.
Was engaged in writing almost all the day." He invariably speaks of comfort
in connection with writing.
Finally, a few months before Mr. Wedgwood's death, I received
from him the following letter.
M. Aut. 67.
"94, Gower-street, W.C., March 26th, 1891.
"You would perhaps like to see the enclosed, which is our last planchette
H 2
100 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
writing with Mrs. R., who came here for a couple of days. It is interesting
to me on account of the pictures, which were done in such a very different
way from that in which a person would have set about drawing them. I feel
quite sure that Mrs. R. knew nothing of the distinctive crime of petty trea
son with its appropriate punishment of burning, so that the story could not
have been suggested by anything in her mind, and I certainly had never
heard of Alice Grimbold and her misfortunes. I am afraid there is no
chance of verifying the story. H. Wedgwood."
March 22.
The message begins with scrawls, developing into a rude drawing of a
woman in mediaeval cap at the stake :—
A. G. 1605.
A. G. condemned March, 1605. Condemned to the fear and the fire.
A. G. A. Grimbold. [For what crime ?] Accomplice. [What crime t ]
Robbery and murder. [Accomplice with whom ? ] Harrison and Bradshaw.
I was old Mrs. Clarke's servant. No ; Harrison was my lover ; the fire
should have been for him. I never meant them to kill her. [Who was
murdered ?] Mrs. Clarke. She was tight-fisted and fond of money, but I
did not mean her any harm. Harrison promised to marry me if I helped
him to the money. Bradshaw was hung. [What became of Harrison ?] He
got off ; he had powerful friends. Adam Bonus knew it. Harrison began it
all. He came to the inn the November before, and I told him about the
money. [Mrs. C. kept money in the house ?] In a coffer in her bedroom.
[Were you tried in London ?] No ; wait and I'll tell you. Leicester. I
died a thousand times with the fear before it came to the fire. Which was
the most real—the dreams or the end ? It was long since ; but there is a
righteous Judge. I was afraid to agony, but I did not repent. I loved the
evil and it clave to me. I repent now, and this is part of the work I am
given to atone. Alice Grimbold servant at the inn. [Name of your judge
I said have mercy, but they would not hear. No power for name, but I will
write again to morrow.
March 23rd. (Another handwriting.) Before the Grimbold control there
is a message to be given you from one risked, so to call him. I have now-
proved these things and they are true. Put aside shadows and see with open
eyes as a true man, and you will do noble work. [Then in the former hand.]
A. Grimbold, 1605. [Miss H. exclaimed, ''Oh ! not that woman ! we want
to know who sends the messages, and to whom."] [A. G.'s handwriting con
tinues.] This is my allotment. Cannot write name of judge, but the inn
was the Blue Boar. Crook-backed Richard once slept there. Ask me ; I
will tell what I can. [Name of your counsel ?] No. Yes, it is easier to
answer questions, but I will try. When they got in they bound me so that
I might be found tied. They strangled Mistress Clarke in her bedroom. I
doubt if they would have hurt her, but she woke. She had three chests, but
m one there was only linen. Adam Bonus knew about it. They went to him.
(Scrawls.)
Mr. Wedgwood inserted inquiries in Notes and Queries, and in
Light, and a correspondent directed him to the following passage
from Thompson's History of Leicester.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 101
Extract from James Thompson's History of Leicester, pp. 327-330.
1st. Edition, 1849.
"An event occurred in the month of March, 1605, which has acquired more
than ordinary importance : we refer to the murder of Mrs. Clarke, land
lady of the Blue Boar Inn, by her servants. Its details are contained in the
depositions taken before the magistrates at this time, and appear to have
been these :—About six weeks after Michaelmas, in 1604, a man named
Harrison, who had fled from Staffordshire in consequence of having done
bodily injury to a person named Philip, came to Leicester ; the Blue Boar
being the first inn he approached, he resolved to lodge there, and slept there
three nights. During his stay he ' fell into speech with a maid in the house,
in the way of marriage, whereupon she told him her mistress had great
store of money in her house, and bade him come again some night, and
bring a secret friend with him whom she might trust, and there would be
means made to get some of the money. ' Accordingly, Harrison ' went
his way,' and at Lichfield met with Adam Bonus, to whom he communicated
the nefarious project, and Bonus further made one Edward Bradshaw ac
quainted therewith.
"Harrison and Bradshaw came to Leicester together on the 1st February,
1605, and that night lodged at John Webster's house ; on Saturday, 2nd
February, they removed with their horses to the Blue Boar, where they
slept ; and on Sunday they remained together at the inn all day.
" In the evening, about 10 o'clock, one of the female servants (Alice
Grimbold, a native of Peckleton) went with her companion with some
provender for the horses, to the stable, whither they were followed by the
men. Alice Grimbold then went to the well, to fetch some water for the
horses, and, on returning to the stable with it, found her fellow-servant
bound therein ; when Harrison immediately laid hands on her, and
secured her also. The men afterwards took some drink, and wanted
the servants to partake of it, but they refused. They then un
bound Grimbold (as she stated) and took her into the house with
them, and obtained her mistress's keys from her, Bradshaw having bound
Mrs. Clarke while Harrison secured the servants in the stable. The latter
in his examination confessed that he had done this, and added that the ' big
maid ' (meaning Grimbold) after she was unbound went with them, appa
rently on compulsion, into her mistress's parlour, where they opened three
coffers—one containing linen, the second being full of writings, and the
third having six or seven bags of gold and silver therein. The robbers took
most of the money (amounting, as was variously estimated by them, to not
less than £250—more probably £500), but left some upon the bedstead for
their female accomplice. Bradshaw then murdered Mrs. Clarke, fastened
Grimbold in the chimney, where (she said) they laid her, ' but easily. ' He
and his accomplice next went to the stables, and brought out their horses,
,and lastly, having fastened the bags about the pommels of their saddles, they
rode away. Grimbold would gladly (according to her own confession) have
gone away with them, but they swore by ' God's wounds ' they would hang
her, and themselves, too, if she attempted to do so. Harrison had previously
given her a linen cloth, containing money and other things, promising to come
for it in ten days, and take her away with him at the same time. Her legs
102 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
not being firmly bound, Grimbold released herself from her position, and
went into the buttery to see how her mistress did, but could not get out
again : so she lay there until the morning, when John Walter's man caine
into the house to light a candle, and completely unbound her. The deed was
discovered the day after its execution ; for Bonus (who had refused to take a
part in the robbery) being then in the town, was on Monday, February 4th,
apprehended and examined before the justices and the coroners. He said
he could not have revealed what he knew, had it not been that the
murder had been committed ; and he affirmed that he had positively told
Bradshaw, on the Sunday, he would take no part in the action. Harri
son was examined on the 20th February before the magistrates. He denied
having aided in the murder of Mrs. Clarke, and said she was living when he
left the house. But for the maid, he asserted, he should not have known
what money Mrs. Clarke had in her possession. He had had only about £17
as his share of the booty, which Sir Simon Weston had then in his custody,
while the remainder was hidden in a bank in Pool Park, Warwickshire.
Bradshaw was not examined until six days after Harrison. He confirmed his
accomplice's account of the concealment of the money in Pool Park,
Tamworth. It seems he had succeeded by means of his share of the plunder
in obtaining bail, and his release from Stafford Gaol (where he and Harrison
were at first confined) through the intervention of Lord Stafford, who also
proceeded to London to procure his pardon. But the latter attempt was
frustrated by the intercession of the Leicester magistrates with Sir John
Popham, the Lord Chief Justice, on February 17th. They informed his
lordship on that date of the circumstances of the case, and added that
Bradshaw might be expected to go to Lord Stafford's lodgings in London.
The murderer was consequently apprehended and brought to Leicester.
The witnesses bound over to appear against the accused were Thomas Davy
and Richard Hunt, bakers ; Alexander Simpson and William Robinson,
labourers. Harrison was specially examined relative to ten questions, by
order of the judge, while he was in gaol and under sentence of death, on
March 22nd, 1605. In reply, he stated that he knew not what was given to
Lord Stafford, to Cotty, or the gaoler, to procure bail for Bradshaw, but it
was reported in Stafford that Cotty had had £40 ; that one Reynish, and
George Ewlins, servant to Lord Stafford, and Jane Holmes, wife to John
Holmes, servant of Sir Walter Asten, Knight, did assure him (Harrison)
that Cotty's wife said to Lord Stafford, ' Let Bradshaw be bailed, and let
Harrison be hanged ' ; that Mr. Humphrey Chatterton's wife, of Bowdis-
worth Park, interceded with Lord Stafford to procure bail for Bradshaw, and
had money for her pains ; that John Bratt, who repaired to him at Stafford
Gaol, went to see him from motives of friendship—for they had been fellow-
servants with Sir John Bowes, Knight ; and that no persons had procured
him instruments to enable him to break out of Stafford Gaol. The other
questions related to matters which had been previously given in evidence,
and were not of importance. The trial took place on March 25th, 1606
[1605 1 ], probably in the present Town Hall—before Sir Peter Warburton,
Knight, when Bradshaw was sentenced to be hanged, and Alice Grimbold to
be burned."
From Notes and Queries, 2nd series, Vol. IV., August, 1857, it appears
The Subliminal CoTiscioiisneas. 103
that one source of this story is the commonplace book of Sir Roger Twisden,
August, 1653. He had seen a Mrs. Cumber, who had herself seen Alice
burnt, some 40 years before. He mentions a legend which had grown up by
that time of the way in which Mrs. Clarke became possessed of the treasure
for which she was murdered ;—namely, that it had been found on the bed
stead on which Richard III. slept before the battle of Bosworth, and which
after his death was left at the Blue Boar. It will be observed that the
automatic script does not adopt this legend, but states incidentally that
Richard once slept there. On this point Mr. R. E. Smith, of 41, Princess-
street, Leicester, writes to Mr. Wedgwood, as follows .—
" I give at foot a copy of the inscription you inquire about. It is on a
mural tablet, adjacent to the Bow Bridge, and it was placed there some 30
or 35 years ago by the owner of the property.
" Tradition points to the locality as the spot where the remains of Richard
III. were thrown after having been brought from the field of battle.
"However that may be, there can be no doubt that] he slept at the
' Blue Boar ' Inn, in the Southgate-street, the night before the battle. That
was the house kept by Mrs. Clarke. It was pulled down about 50 years ago."
Near this spot lie the remains of
Richard III.,
The last of the Plantagenets.
1485.
As to the possible knowledge possessed by either automatist of the
above story, Mr. Wedgwood writes, May 19th, 1891 :—
94, Gower-street, May 16th, 1891.
Mrs. R. says : "One or two points remain unconfirmed, such as the way
in which Mrs. Clarke was put to death (A. G. says she was strangled), also
there having been a local tradition that ' Crook-backed Richard ' slept at
the Blue Boar ; but I suppose Mr. Smith could not help us to any further
verification ? I am rather impressed by the fact that A. G. communicated
with us in March (the 22nd and 23rd), so near the anniversary of her trial
and condemnation, and probably also that of her awful death. I wonder
whether the fact of my always having had an intense horror and dread of a
death by burning, and of this manner of execution, could supply any link
for the control ? " Mrs. R. proceeds: "The effect of the influence on me
was strong and peculiar. I should recognise its return even apart from any
thing written. ... I have never been in Leicester or the neighbour
hood in my life, nor have I ever seen a copy of Thompson's History. I did
not know of the existence of the book till mentioned by Mr. Smith, and
I have never consciously been under a roof with it in my life, except, as you
suggest, at the British Museum, and my last visit there was at 12 years old !
I have no friends or acquaintances living in Leicester."—Yours very truly,
H. Wedgwood.
As regards himself, he writes, May 21st, 1891: "I am quite
certain that I never saw Thompson's History of Leicester, nor ever
heard anything about the incident." Mrs. R. also in a letter to me,
May 20th, 1891, repeats the statements above quoted from her by Mr.
104 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Wedgwood and adds : " I cannot now remember any communication
through our circle for which so early a date was given as that of
Alice Grimbold."
A story like this of Alice Grimbold's may probably enough be
quoted in some books more easily accessible than the History of
Leicester. We have made some search without finding it thus quoted,
but should be glad to hear if it is found in any common work.
I have quoted these three cases in succession, so that the reader may
see the kind of growing difficulty which the theory of forgotten
memories here involves. It will be seen that with each automatist of
good faith the question may with patience be capable of definite solution.
Were Mrs. R. willing and able—which at present she is not—to find
some other partner with whom she can write, now that Mr. Wedgwood
and her sister have been removed by death, and to record a long series
of communications, we might gradually obtain a conviction that the
matters therein narrated either could or could not all of them have been
previously seen and forgotten. Similar records kept by many other auto-
matists might help to some general conclusion as to the source from
which these refcrocognitive facts come, if in any cases forgotten memory
fails to explain them. One of the most important data for such a
decision consists in the account,—absolutely trustworthy, as I believe,
—given by Mr. Stainton Moses in Spirit Identity, (and soon, we
hope, to lie reproduced in these Proceedings), of a series of messages
from musical composers, giving the principal dates of their respective
lives, as they may be found in any Biographical Dictionary, with
hardly anything more. Now were such messages offered to us as
coming through an alleged automatist not of known probity or who
could bring no proof of other messages not capable of being got up be
forehand, we should naturally set them aside. But with Mr. Moses, as
with Mrs. R. above,—and in a still higher degree,—there was so con
siderable an independent history of provably supernormal phenomena
that we are bound to consider these musical biographies in their place
as a part of that series. Their peculiar nature excited the surprise of
Mr. Moses and his friends, who were informed by the " guides " that
these were in fact messages from the spirits in question, but that these
spirits had refreshed their memory of their earth-lives by consulting
printed sources of information. It is obvious that this is to drop the
supposed proof of identity altogether. If any given spirit can consult
his own printed life, so also presumably can other spirits ; and so per
haps can the still incarnated spirit of the automatist himself. This was
of course felt by Mr. Moses, who told me that subjectively also the feel
ing which accompanied these biographical writings was very different
from that which came when, as he held, some spirit was entering with
him into real and direct communication.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 105
The truest analogy to messages like these from a remote past lies,
as it seems to me, in the crystal-visions of scenes in a remote past, of
which examples were given in my chapter on " Sensory Automatism."
We are face to face with the problem of Retrocognition, closer akin
perhaps to the still stranger problem of Precognition than to the
question of personal intercourse with recently departed friends on
which we are now dwelling. That vaster question of a Universal
Memory, a Cosmorama of things past, present, and to come, must be
left for later discussion.
Before leaving this series of cases I think it only fair to print a
fourth experiment with the same operators, but apparently involving a
" physical " or " telekinetic phenomenon," as well as either clair
voyance or spirit agency. Mr. Wedgwood is again the narrator. The
account was printed in the Journal for February, 1890.
M. CI. Aut. 674.
On the 4th December last I had a sitting with Mrs. R. and her sister,
,which afforded evidence not less decisive of the intervention of an intelligence
cognisant of matters of which we had no intimation.
Not long after my arrival on a visit to Mrs. R., mention was made of a
mysterious breakage of a thick washhand-basin which had taken place onthe
previous Sunday, closely resembling other breakages which had occurred in
the house from time to time in a like unaccountable manner. On one
occasion a water bottle was seen to explode on the dressing-table when no one
was near it. On the Sunday in question Mr. R. and his sister-in-law, Mrs.
V., were in the breakfast-room directly under Mrs. R. 's bedroom, Mrs. R.
with the children in the drawing-room, and the servants at Bupper in the
kitchen, when Mr. R. and Mrs. V. were startled by a loud crash in the room
above them. Mrs. V. immediately ran in to her sister in the drawing-room
and they went together upstairs to see what had happened. They found the
thick washhand-basin in fragments on the floor ; the larger pieces in front of
the washstand, but quantities of smaller fragments scattered over the floor to
a distance (as I estimated) of five or six feet, in a way that could not possibly
have been produced by a mere fall on the carpeted floor : the basin must
have been dashed down with great violence.
While talking of these matters I sat down to planchette with my hostess
and her sister, and Mr. R. coming into the room and hearing what we were
talking about, said that some half an hour ago he had heard a noise in the
breakfast-room for which he could not account in any way. It sounded like
the lid of the metal coal-box slamming down, but the box had been already
closed, and, besides, the noise seemed to come from the other side of the
room. Soon afterwards he said that his presence always seemed to interfere
with planchette-writing, and he left the room. Mrs. R. and I had begun
sitting, but planchette suggested a change, and Mrs. V. and I had our hands
on the board.
Planchette : "If Mr. Wedgwood will ask I will try to answer."
I asked what was the noise Mr. R. had just heard.
Planchette : "Noise from upstairs made by spirits with material object."
106 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
" Was it in the room above ? "
Planchette: "Yes."
" What was it ?"
Planchette : "Mrs. R. will find out."
Mrs. R. accordingly went upstairs to look, and while she was away some
thing was said as to the probability of my witnessing some similar display.
• Planchette : "Not yet—you see the better class of spirits war against
the smashing fraternity."
Mrs. R. could find nothing out of order, and returned saying she had
looked everywhere.
Planchette: "No, you did not."
Mrs. R. : " Whereabouts am I to look, for I can see nothing 1 "
Planchette : " Wash—(an illegible scribble)—that side of the room."
We asked, ' ' Were you trying to write washstand ? "
Planchette: "Yes."
Mrs. R. went up again, and, meeting with no better success, came
down for more specific instructions where to look.
Planchette: "Slop-jar" (written very large).
Mrs. R., laughing, said she hoped that was not smashed, and went up for
the third time. She found the slop-jar in its usual place by the washstandr
and when she came to look closely into it, found the water-glass lying broken
all to bits in the bottom. She had not removed it from its usual place on
the top of the carafe since morning, from whence it had apparently been
lifted off and dropped into the empty slop-jar from a height sufficient to cause
the crash heard in the room below.
Mrs. R. brought us down the jar to show how completely the glass was
smashed.
We then asked, " Was this done by the same spirit who broke the basin ? "
Planchette: "The same adverse influence; not the same spirit, but
influence,"
Mrs. R. confirms and slightly corrects this account in a letter to Mr.
Wedgwood dated April 16th, [1890]:—"I have referred to my journal of
December 4th, 1889, and it confirms our clear recollection that the crash of
the glass dropped into the slop-jar was heard by my husband sitting below in
the breakfast-room just before he came in to join our planchette seance, and
while [Mrs. V.] and I were both with you in the drawing-room. On the pre
vious Sunday, December 1st, we had had a breakage in the same room, which
was also referred to in the planchette writing. My sister and husband were
both in the breakfast-room and they both heard a noise like an explosion in
the room above, and running up immediately to see what had happened,
found my thick earthenware washing-basin broken to fragments and.
scattered all over the floor. I was in the drawing-room with the three chil
dren at the time this happened."
D.—I by no means wish to assume any clear line of demarcation
between messages referable to some intelligence unknown and messages
referable to the special intelligence which claims to send them. In our
present state of knowledge such a dividing line can merely subserve
our own convenience of study. By beginning my next class at this
The Subliminal Consciousness. 107
point I would indicate that the six cases which follow involve messages
avowedly coming from persons more recently departed, and into which
something more of definite personality seems to enter. One element
of this kind is handwriting ; and in the next two cases it will be seen
that resemblance of handwriting is one of the evidential points alleged.
Now proof of identity from resemblance of handwriting may conceiv
ably be very strong. But in estimating it we must bear two points in
mind. The first is that, (like the resemblances of so-called " spirit-
photographs " to deceased friends), it is often very loosely asserted.
One needs, if not an expert's opinion, at least a careful personal
scrutiny of the three scripts,—the automatist's voluntary and his
automatic script, and the decedent's script—before one can feel sure
that the resemblance is in more than some general scrawliness. This
refers to the cases where the automatist has provably never seen the
decedent's handwriting. Where he has seen that handwriting, we have
to remember (in the second place) that a hypnotised subject can
frequently imitate any known handwriting far more closely than in
his waking state ; and that consequently we are bound to credit the
subliminal self with a mimetic faculty which may come out in these
messages without any supraliminal guidance whatever on the automa
tist's part.
The case now to be quoted contains several points of interest besides
the alleged resemblance of handwriting. It shows once more, for
instance, the great similarity of ways in which this writing takes its
rise with automatists all over the world, and the recurrence of the same
puzzles with observers of many different types.
Psychic Experiences.
M. Aut. 68.
By Sara A. Underwood.—Introductory Remarks by B. F. Underwood.
(Arena, August, 1891.)
"The statements in this paper as to what was written in my presence
purporting to be communications from ' spirits,' and as to the circumstances
under which it was written, are scrupulously correct. The 'communica
tions,' it is certain, are from an intelligent source. Mrs. Underwood is the
person by whose hand they are put in form. That she is not labouring
under a mistake in thinking that she is unconscious of the thought expressed
until she has read the writing,—if, indeed, such a mistake in a sane mind is
possible,—I am certain. Sometimes, owing to the illegibility of the writing,
she has to study out sentences. The writing varies in style, not only on
different evenings, but on the same evening ; it is apparently the writing of
not fewer than twenty persons, and generally bearing no resemblance what
ever, so far as I can judge, to Mrs. Underwood's handwriting, which is
remarkably uniform. The communications are unlike in the degrees of
intelligence, in the quality of thought, and in the disposition which they
Bhow. Detailed statements of facts unknown to either of us, but which,
weeks afterwards, were learned to be correct, have been written, and
108 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
repeated again and again, when disbelieved and contradicted by us. All the
writing has been done in my presence, but most of it while I have been
busily occupied with work which demanded my undivided attention. The
views expressed are often different from my own, and quite as frequently,
perhaps, opposed to Mrs. Underwood's views. "
Mrs. Underwood writes as follows:—"The modits operandi is the simplest
possible. As I remembered that Mr. Underwood was rather averse to the
planchette experiments of former years, thinking them unwholesome and
deteriorating in their tendency, I at first said nothing to him of my new
psychical experiments, though these were made oftenest in his presence in
the evening when we both sat at one writing table, near each other, busied
with our individual literary work. As I experimented in his absence as well
as in his presence, I soon found that I got the most coherent writings when he
was present. Indeed I could get nothing coherent, and very frequently
nothing at all, when he was away, but when he was present the communica
tions began to grow strangely interesting, and as he was called upon
repeatedly, I felt obliged to invite his attention, when the most surprising
answers were given, which roused his curiosity and interest. It has been
explained that his presence is necessary for me to obtain writing, as ' blended
power is best.' Two or three times, at the suggestion of this intelligence,
we have asked two of our intimate literary friends—non-Spiritualists—to
be present, but each time with comparative failure ; afterwards we were in
formed that the cause of failure was the introduction of persons unused to
the conditions, who broke up the harmonious relations necessary to com
munication ; in time they could be of help.
"It would take a volume to present all the interesting statements as to an
advanced stage of existence, only hidden from us because of the inadequacy
of our sense perceptions, and by the conditions imposed upon us at this stage
of our progress, which have been given from this source. Explanations have
been made why communication through the agency of certain persons,
though not through all, is possible. The conditions, it is alleged, are not
entirely dependent upon the superior intelligence or morality of the persons
with whom the intelligences can became en rapport. These invisibles declare
that they are as seriously and anxiously experimenting on their side to dis
cover modes of untrammelled communication with us, as we on our side
ought to be, if what they write be true, and if such a thing is possible.
' Spirits ' they persistently insist upon being called. In this paper I can
give only a statement of some things which do not seem explicable on the
hypothesis of mind-reading, thought-transference, hypnotism, or subconscious
ness. In all these experiments I have been in a perfectly normal state. The
only physical indication of any outside influence is an occasional slight thrill
as of an electric current from my shoulder to the hand which holds the wait
ing pen, Step by step I have been taught a series of signals to aid me in
correctly reading the communications. I have no power to summon at will
any individual I wish. I have repeatedly, but in vain, tried to get messages
from some near and dear friends. It has been explained that on their side,
as on ours, certain 'conditions' must exist in order to get in 'control.'
When ' eh ? ' is written I know that the operator at the other end of the line
is ready to communicate. When in the middle of a sentence or a word
The Subliminal Consciousness. 109
'gone ' or ' change ' is written, I understand that the connection is broken,
and I must not expect the completion of that message. When a line like
this is drawn, it is a sign that that sentence is completed or the communi
cation ended. So with other things. Rhymes are often unexpectedly
written, especially if the ' control ' professes to be a poet, and they are
dashed off so rapidly that I do not understand their import until the close
when I can read them over. Impromptu rhyming is a feat utterly im
possible to either Mr. Underwood or myself. Names persistently recur which
are unknown to us. Many different handwritings appear, some of them far
superior to my own. When I first began to get communications I destroyed,
in a day or two after they were written, the slips of paper containing the
writing, but as the developments became more interesting, Mr. Underwood
suggested that they be preserved for reference. I acted on this suggestion,
and thus in the instances of facts given outside our own knowledge, I am
enabled to give the exact wording of each communication. Our questions
were asked viva voce, and as they were often suggested by what had been
previously written, I either at the time or soon afterwards wrote them just
above the reply. I am not, therefore, trusting at all to memory in the state
ments I shall make.
" A gentleman of this city (whom I will call John Smith, but whose real
name was a more uncommon one) with whom Mr. Underwood had been
acquainted many years, but of whose family relations he knew little, died
here more than a year ago. Mr. Underwood had met him but once in the
year previous to his death, he having been away on account of failing health,
staying, we understood, with a daughter recently married, whose home was
in Florida. The first name of this married daughter, or of any of Mr. Smith's
daughters except one, was unknown to Mr. Underwood. I had met one of
his daughters whose name I knew to be Jennie. I also knew that there was
another named Violet. I was not sure, however, whether this was the name
of the married one, or of another unmarried, but had the impression that
Violet was unmarried. One evening, while waiting for automatic writing
with no thought of Mr. Smith in my mind, and Mr. Underwood sitting
near me at the table with his thoughts concentrated on an article he was
preparing, this was written : ' John Smith will now enter into conversa
tion with B. F. Underwood.' I read this to Mr. Underwood, who laid aside
his pen, and in order to test the matter, asked if Mr. Smith remembered the
last time they met, soon after his return from the South, and a short time
previous to his death. There was some delay in the answer, but soon reply
came, ' On Madison-street.' ' Whereabouts on Madison ? ' was asked. ' Near
Washington.' ' At what hour ? ' 'About 10 a.m., raining.' As it was rarely
that Mr. Underwood was in that part of the city at so early an hour, and
especially on a rainy day, I doubted the correctness of this reply, but Mr.
Underwood recalled to my mind the unusual circumstance which made it
necessary for him to be in that vicinity on the day and at the hour named, on
which he and Mr. Smith, he distinctly remembered, last met. Only a few
words passed between them on account of the rain. After this, writing, pur
porting to be from Mr. Smith, came frequently. Very soon something
was written which induced Mr. Underwood half sportively to inquire
whether there was anything which troubled Mr. Smith, anything which he
110 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
wished he had done but had omitted, before his death. The answer came,
' One thing—change deeds on Violet's account. None of my wife's are at
my daughter's disposal. All in her own disposal.' Mr. Underwood asked
if it was meant that he had not left his property—for he was a man of some
wealth—as he now wished he had. ' You are right/ was written, ' want all
my girls to share alike.' 'Which daughter do you refer to?' was asked.
' Went away from her in Florida—Violet,' was the answer. I remarked,
' Why, I thought Violet was one of the unmarried girls, but it must be that
that is the name of the married daughter. ' Then Mr. Underwood was strongly
urged to call on Mr. Smith's married son, James, with whom Mr. Under
wood had a slight acquaintance, and tell him of this communication. 'Clearly
state my desire that my daughter Violet share equally with her sisters.' Of
course this was utterly out of the question. At that time we had no intention
of informing any one of our psychic experience, and if we had, Mr. James
Smith would have thought us insane or impertinent to come to him with so
ridiculous a story, the truth of which we ourselves strongly doubted. Pages
were, however, written concerning the matter in so earnest and pleading a
manner that I came to feel conscience-stricken at refusing to do what was
asked, and to shrink from seeing Mr. Smith's name appear. Once was
written, ' Say to James that in my new position, and with my new views of
life, I feel that I did wrong to treat his sister Violet as I did. She was not
to blame for following out her own convictions, when I had inculcated
independent thought and action for all.' This and other sentences of the
kind seemed to convey the idea that Violet had in some way incurred his
displeasure by doing according to her own will in opposition to his. This
was puzzling to us, as we knew that in her marriage, at least, the daughter
we thought to be Violet had followed her father's wishes.
"A few weeks later, however, came an unlooked-for verification of Mr.
Smith's messages. In a conversation between Mr. Underwood and a business
friend of Mr. Smith, who was well acquainted with all his affairs, regret
was expressed that so wealthy a man had left so little for a certain pur
pose. Mr. Underwood then inquired as to what disposition had been made
of his property, and was told that he had left it mainly to his wife and
children—so much to this one, and that. 'But Violet,' continued Mr.
Underwood's informant, ' was left only a small amount, as Mr. Smith was
angry because she married against his wishes.' ' Why,' remarked Mr.
Underwood, ' I understood that he approved of the match, and the fact
that he accompanied herself and husband to Florida, and remained with
them some time, would seem to indicate that.' ' Oh, you are thinking of
Lucy, the eldest girl ; her marriage was all right, but Violet, one of the
younger daughters, going to Florida with her [Lucy's] husband, fell in love
with a young man of whom her father did not approve, so she made a run
away marriage, and on account of his displeasure, Mr. Smith left her only a
small sum.' The intelligence writing was aware of facts unknown to either
Mr. Underwood or myself, and no other persons were in the room when these
pommunications were given."
In The Arena for June, 1892, Mr. Underwood continues :—
" My presence has been and is now one of the conditions of Mrs. Under
wood's getting connected and coherent writing. Only a few words and a
The Subliminal Consciousness. Ill
sentence or two have been written occasionally in my absence. Once
•when I was absent from home the peculiar sensation which had always been
felt in Mrs. Underwood's right hand before the writing began, was felt in
the left hand, with which a name was written with letters reversed, and she
could read it only when impressed to do so. She held it before the mirror.
It was the name of a person two hundred miles distant, who was still alive,
but, as was subsequently learned, in an unconscious state at the time, and
-very near death, which occurred two or three days afterwards.
"The word 'death' is never used except with 'so-called' before it, or
'which is a new birth,' or some other explanatory or qualifying expression.
The writing purports to be from extra-mediumistic and extra-mundane
.sources—from invisible human beings who once inhabited this earth. The
writing always, whether purporting to be from a person of high or low
degree, claims that the controlling intelligence is a spirit—a discarnate
human being. Any intimation that the communicating intelligence may be
the medium's subconscious ego, a fraction of which only rises to the level of
conscious knowledge, is met with responses to the effect that it is strange
anybody can believe such a vagary. One claim, to which there has never
been exception in any writing purporting to be a message, is that a ' spirit,'
j» discarnate human being, moves the hand that holds the pen. Generally
names and dates are not given ; and when they are, they are as liable to be
wrong as correct. In answer to questions as to the reason of this, it has
been said substantially that memories and reminiscences are only gathered
up as the departed are able to come in contact with persons and objects of
earth. Strange as it may seem, I get tired and nervous when this writing
is prolonged ; it exhausts me much more than it does Mrs. Underwood, on
whom it never leaves any depressing influence.
"The intelligence which seems to be extraneous, which invariably claims
to be a departed spirit, now one, now another, is sometimes inferior
intellectually to the medium ; at other times, in certain lines of thought, in
the use of words, and in the statement of facts, the intelligence that directs
-the pen evinces larger knowledge than Mrs. Underwood consciously
possesses. The spelling is sometimes different from her own, and the style
is often stilted, and even grandiose, while her style is simple and natural.
In some cases the writing relates to what is entirely unknown to the
writer,—to her ordinary consciousness,—though in some of these cases I
can conceive it as possible, and deem it probable, that the writing relates to
what has been noted or learned by the passive consciousness, and is evoked
therefrom even though there is no recognition of its having been included
in the person's experience. But in other cases the writing has contained
evidence of knowledge that Mrs. Underwood never could have obtained in
any known way. She gave one or two instances in the August Arena, I
will relate another of her experiences which, in my opinion, proves that
there are supernormal methods of obtaining knowledge.
" One morning, a message purporting to be from a young man recently
deceased was received. Neither Mrs. Underwood nor I had ever seen his
handwriting. We knew his name only as William S. The message was
signed 'Z. W. S.' At the time, I remarked that I did not believe there
was any Z in his name, and in this opinion Mrs. Underwood concurred. A
112 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
few days afterwards we met the father and the mother of the young man,
who were so impressed with the resemblance between the handwriting and
that of their son that they wished to take the writing with them. There was
a Z in the name, but it was the initial of his second name, and not of the
first, as it was written. In the presence of the young man's mother, Mrs.
Underwood's hand was moved to write, and the lady asked if her father
would give a test by writing his name. The first name, Solomon, was written
slowly ; and after a pause, the surname was written very quickly. Mrs.
Underwood did not know and never had known the name, which was written
correctly ; and Mr. S. , who is a lawyer and a man of critical and discriminat
ing mind, and his wife both declared that the signature closely resembled
that of the old gentleman. Some days ago I wrote to Mr. S., asking him
whether, after further reflection, he could suggest a possible explanation of
what Mrs. Underwood wrote without recourse to any occult theory. He
replied and referred to the message purporting to be from his son, thus : ' I
have compared it with signatures of our boy. As I told you in Chicago at
the time, the writing bears a very strong resemblance to his writing. Mrs.
Underwood did not, in my opinion, either consciously or unconsciously,
have any knowledge of Will's full name. The writing, while quite similar
to Will's, is very different from Mrs. Underwood's. My wife's father's
name had not been mentioned at all. Never had been in Mrs. Underwood's
presence. I don't think she had ever met a member of Mrs. S.'s family by
that name, yet she certainly wrote the name of Mrs. S.'s father, Solomon
M., very plainly, when asked to write the name of the person who had just
written that he had something to say. This writing was also very, very similar
to the handwriting of the old gentleman. '
"Fully aware that incidents long forgotten may be recalled, that possibly
no lapse of memory is irrevocable, and that under certain conditions from the
submerged self may be sent up memories which cannot be distinguished
from newly acquired knowlege, still, I am confident that Mrs. Underwood's
hand has written names and statements of facts not only once, but several
times, which were not and never had been any part of her conscious
knowledge.'
I proceed to a case whose interest for my readers is much impaired
by my obligation to conceal the identity of the persons concerned. The
two surviving witnesses are known to me, and are persons of position
and intelligence. The third dramatis persona, who departed this life
a few years since, was also known to me ; and I am acquainted with
the joint work which was for many years carried on by the deceased
and a survivor, and which was of a kind which may be conceived as
still interesting a departed spirit. I give to these three persons the
names, in all respects fictitious, of Mrs. Laurence, Mrs. Plowden, and
Mrs. Seddon, and I alter the Christian name quoted and the initial
letter of Mrs. Seddon's home. The rest of the account is not altered
except by abridgment.
Mrs. Laurence, whose account must first be given, had been
interested in the work done by Mrs. Plowden and Mrs. Seddon, had
The Subliminal Consciousness. 113
interchanged a few letters with both, and had seen Mrs. Seddon on
a few occasions. Some months after Mrs. Plowden's death (but in no
apparent connection with that event) Mrs. Laurence began to expe
rience certain automatic impulses, which were subjectively felt as
proceeding from a deceased relative.
Late one Tuesday evening [date given] the impulse to some form
of such communication came on with unusual force.
M. Aut. 69.
"Feeling very doubtful how to act, yet dimly conscious that I was being
drawn into something unusual, and unknown to me, I seated myself at a
little table.
" Soon I began to feel my thoughts drawn out strongly towards Mrs.
Plowden. Next there reached me an impulsion to get writing materials. I
now began to realise that I was not alone, and that my services were required
for some purpose, which revealed itself when, on taking up a pen, I imme
diately felt a strange thrill flow through my right arm, which then ceased to
be under my full control. Such an experience was entirely new to me, and
with amazement I watched the pen write rapidly. Several pages were
written in this manner. It seemed to me as if several influences had gathered
around me, and were endeavouring to aid in the furtherance of a design much
desired by someone whom they accompanied and to serve whom they thus
sought to employ me. I quickly became convinced that the guiding mind was
Mrs. Plowden's ; the reason why I felt so positively assured of her presence
is that I seemed to see (with an inner vision) the feelings which were
prompting her, and her mental vibrations seemed to mingle with mine,
making me share her emotion, even while I did not understand its cause.
So deeply did her earnestness of desire and effort affect me that the tears
ran down my cheeks as I felt her striving to greet and instruct the friend,
Mrs. Seddon, to whom this communication was being poured forth.
" The variety of influences, my inexperience in such conditions, and the
strangeness of the scene in which I found myself so unexpectedly participat
ing, all combined, I fear, to prevent me from acting as a very manageable
medium to write through ; consequently the letter was written in a large
scrambling handwriting, neither mine nor Mrs. Plowden's, though I felt and
interiorly saw that she tried to reproduce her own handwriting ; and it
seemed to me that she was perplexed by the difficulty she discovered in using
her instrument (my hand), which, owing to my inexperience and because it
had never before been borrowed in this way, did not yield itself sufficiently
passively, and thus failed to roproduce the mechanical yet individual move
ments of another hand.
" I was so absorbed by the pathos and strangeness of this effort made by
one ' beyond the veil ' to communicate with the friend and co-worker who
had shared her aspirations and life mission on earth, that I paid small heed
to the contents of the letter ; which, moreover, referred to matters of which
I was entirely ignorant. All that I understood about it was that it was a
message to Mrs. Seddon. The letter ended with the words, written with
extraordinary intensity and underlined several times :—
" ' Ruth ! Does not my voice reach you 1 '
I
11* Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
"I was rather puzzled at this name (Ruth) employed by Mrs. Plowden,
till the recollection flashed into my mind that Mrs. Plowden was
accustomed to address Mrs. Seddon by it, [in consequence of certain private
circumstances]. It is impossible for me to describe adequately in words the
intense earnestness with which the above appeal and question were made.
It was an exceeding bitter cry, as though the speaker-writer could not
comprehend what barrier could prevent her voice from being heard. And,
looking back to that memorable evening, I can distinctly remember how
there appeared before my mental vision the picture of a grassy spot, shaded
by trees, close to a river. I did not understand the meaning of this till
afterwards, when Mrs. Seddon explained the reason why Mrs. Plowden had
thus exclaimed and written : ' Does not my voice reach you ? 1
"The letter was duly dispatched. I did not even glance at its contents,
feeling that the letter did not belong to me in any way. The sentences I
have quoted were impressed on my consciousness, and have remained in
my memory, because of the great earnestness which prompted them, causing
me to feel and hear the sentiments they expressed. A day or two after
this first letter was written I again felt myself impelled to get writing
materials, and once more my hand was used in the same (to me) extraordinary
way.
" This time the conditions and mental atmosphere were calmer, and I was
not conscious of such a mingling of influences as on the previous occasion.
I was also reassured by receiving a strengthened impression of Mrs.
Plowden's actual presence, and of her urgent desire to discharge what she
evidently regarded as a duty, viz., the expression of her wishes respecting
work left undone by her.
" This second letter contained a message to Mrs. Seddon bidding her to
use as preface to a book by Mrs. Plowden, which Mrs. Seddon was editing, a
paper which Mrs. Plowden had written some time previously. Mrs. Plowden
endeavoured to explain that Mrs. Seddon would find the manuscript which
Mrs. Plowden wished her thus to use ' in the window-seat of the school
room at K.'
" On this second occasion Mrs. Plowden used my hand to write a note to
Mrs. Seddon, and one to a relative.
" This time also I felt how strenuously she endeavoured to produce her
own handwriting ; perhaps because she thought that thus her wishes would
receive more attention ; perhaps simply because there is something so
characteristic and involuntary about one's handwriting.
" When these letters were being written I felt my hand grasped by
some soft intangible substance ; sometimes in forming the words the unseen
hand seemed to become tremulous, as if the writing was only executed by
an effort of will of one to whom a return to any material conditions was
painful and difficult.
" I watched the words trace themselves on paper and again seemed to see
them arising in the unseen writer's mind. I longed to help, but did not
realise that probably complete passivity on my part would have been the
most helpful course to follow ; on this point the intimation reached me
another time: ' Try to stop thinking and I will try to speak.' The writing
The Subliminal Consciousness. 115
of these letters resembled Mrs. Plowden's. The envelopes were addressed
in a writing exactly like Mrs. Plowden's own hand, I was afterwards told. I
distinctly remember that while the addresses were being written the hand
which was resting on mine and writing with it pressed with increased
firmness and resolution, as if the writer were determined that no mistake
should be made in the names and addresses of the persons for whom the
communications were intended.
" The envelope containing the note to the relative bore the name in full.
"The letter to Mrs. Seddon bore her London address ; where, however,
she was not, as she was then at K. (These details were explained to me
afterwards.)
" Owing to a delay in posting the letter to the relative, the two letters
reached K. at the same time, as Mrs. Seddon's was forwarded to her from
London. After a day or two I heard from Mrs. Seddon that all the contents
of the letters apparently written by Mrs. Plowden in the way just described,
were correct in every respect, excepting that tho room called in the letter
the 'school-room ' was usually called the ' study.'
'' I tried throughout to pay as little attention as possible to the contents
of the letters, because they were not intended for me and were only brought
thus under my notice from stress of circumstances."
This account is corroborated by Mrs. Seddon, the recipient of the
two aforesaid letters. Mrs. Seddon's account begins by stating that she
had been vainly endeavouring to enter into communion with the spirit
of her departed friend by sitting in the churchyard where that friend's
body was buried. On the Tuesday aforesaid she visited that spot for
the last time, and retired in despair of obtaining any increased sense of
nearness by that means. " My last attempt was made on Tuesday
[same date as above], and I made no mention to anybody of any
attempts or of my wish." On this same evening, as we have seen, the
impulse as from Mrs. Seddon came to Mrs. Laurence at a distance ; and
this coincidence was heightened by the fact that the scene flashed upon
Mrs. Laurence's mind corresponded (so far as such scenes can be
expressed in definite words) with the actual look of the churchyard—
the general aspect of which had, however, been described by Mrs.
Seddon to Mrs. Laurence shortly before. I continue in Mrs. Seddon's
words :—
"The letter which I received on Saturday was written on Wednesday,
and in it she stated that late on the previous night—the night of the day
on which I had abandoned my attempts atthe grave—she had been influenced
by someone whom she recognised as Mrs. Plowden, and who had caused her
towrite to me the letter now enclosed.
" The message thus dictated contained warm assurances of Mrs. Plowden's
continued regard for me and interest in our work, and concluded with the
exclamation, emphatically underlined and written with great energy :
' Ruth, does not my voice reach you 1 ' the effect being as if she was then
actually calling to me just as I had desired her to call, and as I had felt that
she was calling though the sounds failed to reach me.
i 2
116 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
" On the following day, Sunday, I received from Mrs. Laurence, also
forwarded from London under cover, another letter purporting to be
dictated by Mrs. Plowden. The object of this letter was to charge me to use
for the book I had just edited a preface which she herself had written, instead
of one of my own composition ; and a copy of which I should find in a
certain place in the room which had been her study. The particulars given
were correct, with the exception that the word ' school-room ' was used for
'study.' As it happened, I had already made use of the preface in
question, having set aside one that I had commenced writing, under a strong
impression that in so doing I was acting as she would have preferred had she
been consulted. The book, moreover, had actually been published, so that
the instruction now received came too late to be observed. From which it
was clear that her knowledge of my doings was not fully up-to-date.
" The letters thus dictated showed a gradual and increasing assimilation
of the medium's handwriting to that of Mrs. Plowden. But the envelope
containing the last one was addressed in a hand which was not merely like
Mrs. Plowden's, but was hers, and was written with great freedom, clearness,
and firmness, and as if dashed off at speed, only with a somewhat coarser pen
than she was wont to use, the strokes being thicker as through the effort of
using another's hand, and all the characteristics were hers and not in the least
the medium's.1 It was accompanied by a letter from Mrs. Laurence,
describing the sensation in her hand when writing as that of being con
trolled by some pervading substance which, while strong and firm, was soft
and impalpable. This was a description which tallied exactly with that
which other mediums had described to me, and which I myself had expe
rienced on the single occasion when it had been considered desirable to give
me a practical example of the method of ' automatic writing,' though in my
case my own consciousness was not set aside, the words being presented to
my mind when being written."
Mrs. Seddon proceeds to describe the disquieting effect upon the
relative to whom the second letter was addressed of the close resem
blance to the handwriting of the deceased. The subject being dis
tasteful to this relative, no corroboration can be sought in that quarter.
In a subsequent letter Mrs. Seddon says : " The full description,
written through the medium, of the place of the MSS. in question is
' the drawer at the left-hand side of the window-seat where I once put
them long ago.' This was a receptacle which stood by Mrs. Plowden's
accustomed seat in her study, and in which I had found the preface
referred to. The study may have been called the schoolroom [at a
previous period]. My own impression is that intending to say ' study,'
the controlling influence succeeded only in impressing a corresponding
word on the medium, and was content with it as understanding what
room was meant. . . . No reference to or mention of a window-seat
1 I have seen the envelope and compared the handwritings. I think the statement
in the text too strong ; but there is much resemblance ;—and undoubtedly Mrs.
Laurence's envelope bears the impress of speed and confidence.—F.W.H.M.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 117
had occurred anywhere until the phrase was used in Mrs. Laurence's
message."
I hold it as certain that Mrs. Laurence had never visited K., nor had
she ever heard of the window-seat and the drawer. Of this, I repeat, she
has completely satisfied me ; nor indeed would it have been in any way
likely that she should have known of these details. She had not
known that Mrs. Seddon had hesitated between two prefaces, and
although she knew that the book was out, she had not specially noticed
the preface, and cannot now recollect whether she had or had not
read it. The degree both of knowledge and of ignorance shown in the
automatic message is therefore noteworthy. There was knowledge of
a very specific place—left-hand drawer of a vnndoiv-seat. Against this
must be set the minor mistake of school-room for study, but here I
think that Mrs. Seddon's explanation is in accordance with analogy.
On the other hand, we have ignorance of a fact fully known to Mrs.
Plowden, and partially known to Mrs. Laurence, namely, that the book
had already appeared with the desired preface. The message, there
fore, is not exactly like ihe product of either living mind, and does
somewhat resemble that which might be sent by someone remembering
past facts, imperfectly acquainted with recent facts, and feeling a strong
personal interest in the matter.
An interesting corroboration is furnished to this case by a previous
experience of Miss A.'s, quite unknown to Mrs. Laurence, who is not
acquainted with the A. family. I copy the following passage from the
original notes taken by Mrs. A. at the time of the incident,—shortly after
Mrs. Plowden's death. ["We knew," writes Mrs. A., " thatMrs. Plowden
was dead ; but did not personally then know Mrs. Seddon ; and there
had not been any special conversation respecting Mrs. Plowden."] One of
Miss A.'s accustomed " guides," giving the name of " E. Swedenborg,"
wrote : " I want, through you, to fulfil a promise which I have given to
one very dear to me ; one who drew me to her through her kindly and
unselfish influences ; one whom I helped to the best of my ability while
the beautiful spirit was yet chained to earth. I speak of her whom I
knew best as ' Naomi,' but whom you would only recognise under the
name of ' Mrs. Plowden.' ... I would for her sake have those
to know from whom she has parted in bodily form that she is but
removed to a higher sphere of action, there to await those who worked
with her on earth."
The evidential point here is the name which I have given as
" Naomi,"—the correlative to the " Ruth " which appears in Mrs.
Laurence's letter. The A family, who alone were present when the
above writing was given, all of them feel sure that they had never
heard that this name was ever given to Mrs. Plowden.
118 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
"As far as I can see by my notes," continues Mrs. A., "we did not
meet Mrs. Seddon till [some months later]. Like many other messages,
we did not like to send it to the person it concerned ; but it was given
to her at last by a mutual friend, and she came to see us." There was
then much writing, which Mrs. Seddon considers as so specially
appropriate in content as much to strengthen the proof of identity.
She also states that " Swedenborg " had influenced Mrs. Plowden in life
in a similar manner—"a fact of which no one knew but ourselves."
On the degree of proof which such coincidences of thougJit can afford,
I may have to speak in a later paper. The point to which I here call
attention is the appearance of the two private names through two
automatists entirely independent of each other. In one case the private
name was unknown to the automatist, in the other case the name had
been heard, but another fact, unknown to the automatist, was given in
the same connection.
I will now place together four cases where a leading point of
interest is the writing of words which the automatist could not have
written by conscious effort. In one case an unlettered man wrote
Greek ; in one a girl ignorant of Kaffir wrote Kaffir ; and in the two
other cases a young child who had not learnt to write, wrote, we are
told, legible and significant words.
In the first case of this group the phenomena were various, but con
sisted mainly of automatic writing and speech. Some of the writings
evinced a knowledge greater than the automatist possessed. Especially,
two lines from Homer were correctly written in response to a request
for some Greek, although the writer was certainly quite ignorant even
of the Greek alphabet. Some indications of identity were also given.
Certain physical phenomena (the most important of which occurred
in my informant's absence) were interpolated as it were at random
among the intellectual phenomena, and carried with them no clear
indication of their source ; except that they occurred only in the
presence of the sitter, here styled Mr. Andrew.
For my introduction to Mr. O. (as I shall call him), the narrator of
these incidents, I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. Andrew Lang.
I first heard Mr. O.'s narrative from himself by word of mouth on
November 20th, 1889, while the events were still fresh in his memory.
I regard him as an excellent witness. The delay in producing the
evidence has been partly caused by Mr. O.'s persistent but unavailing
efforts to induce the survivors among his fellow-sitters to add their
testimony to his own. I have reason to believe that their refusal is in
no way due to any disagreement with Mr. O.'s account, but mainly to
scruples of a quasi-religious nature. Such scruples have repeatedly
baulked our inquiries ; but I hope that they may gradually die out
The Subliminal Consciousness. 119
among our informants, as the innocence and the importance of experi
ments of this kind come to be better understood. In Mr. O.'s own case
there are, I think, amply sufficient reasons why his anonymity should
be preserved. His brother—in deference to whose serious wish during
dangerous illness the sittings were undertaken—is now dead.
I will add that the intimacy among the members of the circle was
such that I cannot doubt that Mr. O. heard, without delay, from his
brother and others, of the physical phenomena which had occurred
during his own absence from the circle. Mr. O. writes in 1890 :—
S. 11.—In the winter of '88-9 I began, along with a few intimate friends,
to investigate the phenomena commonly called Spiritualistic. None of the
company was at all anxious for any specific communication from another
sphere, but partly for the gratification of an invalid brother, and partly for
the sake of satisfying ourselves as to the possibility of some things we had
read, we attempted a sitting. The results far exceeded our expectation.
We were favoured with phenomena somewhat startling to novices in the art
—phenomena styled in Scotland uncanny—but their interesting nature soon
overcame our natural diffidence, and before the end of the winter we were
on quite familiar terms with our unsubstantial visitants.
As a rule the circle consisted of two of my brothers, two personal friends,
and myself, though occasionally we admitted other members of the family,
and once or twice an acquaintance. We were not Spiritualists, nor had we
any desire to be known as such : all we did was done solely by way of experi
ment and amusement. The opportunity was the best possible : we had all
our sittings in our own home, the circle was confined to personal friends in
whom we had full confidence, so that there was neither motive nor oppor
tunity for deception. We usually met twice a week when my invalid brother
was able for company, but during the winter months relapses of his illness
caused interruptions ; and indeed, I often thought the excitement of our
sittings did not affect him beneficially.
Our sittings were all in the dark. Our medium was, in most cases, Mr.
Andrew, though we had also a less efficient medium in the case of Mr.
S . The performances of the latter were mostly of a somnambulistic
kind, and do not call for special notice.
With Andrew, however, phenomena assumed quite another aspect. He
would play charming music on the violin, or produce beautiful pencil sketches
of city and rural scenes. Sometimes the locus of these scenes was named,
oftener not, but they were invariably unknown to any member of the company.
For a time I failed to see anything very unaccountable in Andrew's trance
productions. I knew him to be an accomplished violinist and a fairly good
sketcher, and I naturally put everything down to an unconscious exercise of
his own skilL One little thing did perplex me, namely, the very different
styles of handwriting he seemed to accomplish with equal facility.
I mentioned an invalid brother. He suffered from a heart affection
known as presystolic murmur. At one sitting we consulted a medical man,
who called himself Dr. Snobinski of Russia. This gentleman not only pre
scribed for my brother, but also furnished us with a diagram of the human
heart, and put a special mark to indicate the valve diseased in my brother's
120 Mr. F. W. If. Myers.
case. How this diagram was accurately drawn by a person ignorant of
human physiology, and how the diseased valve was shown and explained by
one ignorant of pathology, was more than I could account for.
On another occasion another doctor, calling himself Arnold, confirmed the
diagnosis of Dr. Snobinski, and rated my brother for having neglected to
follow the regimen recommended by the famous Russian. On this occasion,
during examination of the chest, when the patient chanced to laugh, the
doctor [in the person of Mr. Andrew] suddenly gave him a mild box on the
ear with his open palm. This I understood was to rebuke his laughter,
which, as is well known, is a dangerous luxury to one suffering from valvular
disease.
At times we were entertained by a negro, who gave us no little fun. His
effort to speak English was most amusing, and presented just those difficul
ties which perplex the negro in this more matter-of-fact sphere.
These phenomena had led me to perplexing thoughts, and, though unable
to explain them on purely psychological grounds, I was slow to admit that
the medium was not also the cause of the effects he produced. I had so far
accounted for the music and the sketches ; the varieties of handwriting were
a little puzzling, the diagram and the prescription a little more so, but I was
still inclined to suspend judgment till I should acquire more facts. With a
view to this, I one evening interrogated : " Where are you ? " Answer : "In
the sphere next the earth." "Could you tell anything of the future?"
Answer: "We are as ignorant of the future as you are." This I thought
was at least honest, and very probable, but too general to be of service to me
in arriving at any decision. I resolved to put what seemed to me a searching
test. None of the others knew Latin or Greek, so I asked an answer in
Latin. This was readily given, but so badly spelt that I failed to fully
translate it. Not yet satisfied, I asked any quotation from a Greek author-
so that by comparison with the original, identity or variation might be satis
factorily apparent. This resulted in a quotation from the Odyssey, Bk. XL,
lines 57-8 :—
'EXinjvop, nS>s %\6fs vn'o £cxpov r1tpdtvra ;
t(pdr1s it(£c>s (&>v r\ (y£> triiv vrit fu\aivj1.
These lines were beautifully written in cursive characters, and minute even
to the accents. As a student I had read Odyssey XL, but could not have
given the lines from memory, or written them out with correct accents. On
comparing the lines with the Greek text I found them to be without flaw.
My puzzle was now twofold : (1) That I was not able to read the Latin
proved that what was given was not anything I had previously been
revolving in my own mind, but had come from an independent intelligence ;
(2) The medium was not acquainted with either Latin or Greek—did not know
one from the other. Clearly I must now quit the hypothesis that the
medium was the author of his own message, as not adequate to account for
all the facts.
The Greek and the Latin [Mr. O. adds in a later letter] were both
obtained at the same sitting. I asked for the Greek because the Latin was
so badly written I could not fully make it out. The medium that evening
was Andrew, who, I am fully convinced, could not possibly have any know
ledge that Greek would be asked for—and even if he had known, he could
The Subliminal Consciousness. 121
not have given it, since he did not know the Greek when it was given. The
controlling spirit was unknown to any of the company. In reply to my
questions he described himself as a youth of nineteen, according to their
reckoning, but was only twelve years of age when he died. When I asked
how he was occupied, he told us he was still at school. This information led
me to ask for the Latin, and subsequently for the Greek.
Still more inexplicable was the evidential sign given to a doubting
acquaintance. This gentleman requested permission to be present at one of
the sittings, but his general behaviour there indicated that he regarded a
sitting as a kind of farce. He brought with him another gentleman of
equally sceptical temper. The first remark from the medium that evening
was: "There are strangers present to-night." This remark seemed to our
friend so commonplace that he requested evidence of the presence of a spirit.
On being asked what evidence he would like, he jokingly said, "Bring a
candle ! "—an idea probably suggested by sitting in the dark. The wish had
scarcely been expressed when a candle was placed on the table before him,
with the request that he should immediately quit the company. The candle
was found to be warm, a circumstance explained by the fact that it had been
used in the next room only a few minutes before. My brother immediately
went to the next room, and asked for a candle. The good lady was much
surprised to find that while the candlestick was still standing where she had
placed it shortly before, the candle itself was gone. My brother then showed
her the candle which he held in his hand, and this she identified as the
one she had used a few minutes before—indeed there could not be two
opinions, as there was only one candle in the house. This was regarded by
the circle as the most wonderful result yet obtained. Here was proof
amounting to a demonstration that a material object had been passed through
matter ; the candle had been brought from one room to another, though both
doors (there were two doors in the room in which the sittings were held)
were locked before the sitting was commenced.
This candle incident I give on the testimony of the others, as I myself
was not present that evening, a circumstance which I afterwards regretted.
Personally I have not seen a case of matter through matter.
During that winter we obtained many interesting phenomena. The
spirits (?) would strike any note we asked on a violin or harmonium which
stood by. The notes requested would sound forth distinctly, though no
visible hand was near ; and this was done both in the dark and in the light,
though more often in the dark.
One evening a visitant addressed one of my brothers as an old school
fellow, and in proof of his identity he reminded my brother of a poem they
had once learnt together as boys, namely, one by " Surfaceman " (Alexander
Anderson), entitled " The blood mi the w)ieel." My brother perfectly recol
lected the exercise, and had no doubt as to the identity of the speaker. The
wonderful thing here was that the medium had become acquainted with my
brother later in life, and had no knowledge of his schooldays.
Of the scientific value of these results I was not aware till I had the
pleasure of meeting yourself, and if we had met some months earlier I should
certainly have preserved the legible results of our sittings. They were
destroyed in ignorance of their scientific worth, and chiefly because associated
122 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
with a departed brother whose early death we still lament. Though our
sittings are long past their results still dwell with me in all but their first
freshness. Circumstances conspired to break up our little company. Of
our circle of five two have since married, one has left the district, and
another has departed this life. The death of our most spirited member was
the end of our meetings.
On the " telekinetic phenomena " involved in this case I must not
here dwell. The case of Mr. Stainton Moses, with which I hope to
deal later, will afford a better opportunity for discussing the relations,
between automatism and telekinesis.
The next case came to Dr. Hodgson from a group of persons who
may not be. very critical, but who are plainly sincere. The pheno
menon alleged, however surprising, involves but a simple act of
observation and should have been easy to note and remember.
M. Aut. 70.
Flushing, Jvly 19th, 1890.
Me. Richard Hodgson.
" Dear Sir,—It affords me pleasure to respond to your inquiry concern
ing the item of spirit writing through the hand of a little child just four
years of age who had no knowledge of its letters, unaided and untaught.
"My wife had a niece who passed to spirit-life twenty years ago, who was
in life strongly attached to her, and whenever we come in contact with a
mediumistic person she invariably makes her presence known to us. My
daughter, fifteen years of age, and another young lady of the same age,
opened a school for small children in a little room used for a Sunday-school
by the Baptist society, where the event took place. It was approaching
Easter, and to add to the coming exercises, the little girl was especially in
vited to join them in rehearsing their pieces, as most all the pupils were
members of the Mission Sunday-school. The first morning of her attend
ance a slate and pencil were given her to keep her quiet ; she scribbled
awhile, when it was noticed that she had written very distinctly the name
Emma. As it was known that the child had never been inside of a school
before, and that she knew no single letter of the alphabet, it was a great
surprise. The slate belonged to some of the pupils, hence was not preserved
by the young ladies. I regretted the loss of such a rare test of spirit con
trol, and urged them should such a thing ever occur again to preserve it.
The child attended the day following, and instead of slate a leaf from a
tablet and lead pencil were given her. After she had amused herself awhile
she returned the paper, and it was seen that a number of attempts to write
the name Emma had been made. As she handed in the paper she said,
' Nozer,' and another sheet was given, with an improvement ; the third was
given, when upon either side was written with bold running hand, ' your
aunt Emma,' quite as large and perfect as the above.
"True, she was aunt to the little one whose little hand she was holding.
The prossure upon the paper of the first two sheets was uneven and it
requires close attention to follow some portions of the first attempt, but in
The Subliminal Consciousness. 128
the last she seems to have overcome all difficulties and accomplished her pur
pose of giving us a fact of spirit control.
" Little Etta has passed on to the higher life within a year of this event.
" It is fair to say her parents were not Spiritualists. They took the child
and gave her paper and pencil, but failed to get satisfactory results.
" That little circle of innocent children singing their songs had created an
atmosphere of harmony favourable for that sensitive little child to receive
the impress or control of a decarnate spirit. Those familiar with phenomena
of this kind will readily appreciate the difference in conditions.—Yours
truly, A. E. Hempstead."
" This is to certify that we were present and witnessed the writing of
little Etta, as described in the foregoing statement, and know that neither
Etta, nor any other pupil present at the time, could have written the
messages of their own abilities.
(Signed) Laura Hempstead.
L. A. K."
" I am the mother of little Etta, and know she had not been taught the
alphabet, or how to hold her pencil.
(Signed) Mrs. B. W. Terry."
Newtown, N.Y., October 16th, 1890.
In another letter Mr. Hempstead adds :—"In reply to your last inquiry
I will say Etta's message was written just before Easter.
"The messages we still have, although somewhat difficult to read, as they
were in pencil, and the uneven pressure upon the paper requires close
attention. We did not ink it over, as we wished to preserve its purity.
Remember she held the pencil between the middle fingers of her left hand,
as she was not taught the art of holding her pencil. I have written in ink
upon their margins in the order that she wrote them.
" Will gladly loan them to you, trusting they will be duly returned."
Newtown, November 19th, 1890.
Mr. Hodgson.
"Dear Sir,—By a strange grouping of circumstances your letter,
little Etta's mother, the young lady who witnessed the writing, all
came into our home here in Newtown together, bringing the mail with them,
as if unconsciously directed, so I am prepared to return your paper promptly.
They all read it and without hesitation gave their signatures. In the case
of Miss K., she said she would rather not have her name mentioned publicly
on account of her connection with the church, &c., which you may readily
understand.
" The mother explained that the child was left-handed, and L. did not
remember about the manner in which she (Etta) held the pencil. But my
daughter is positive, and one not likely to forget so novel a feature.
Hoping the above will suffice, I remain, very truly yours for humanity,
"A. E. Hempstead."
Mr. Hodgson adds :— October 30th, 1890.
" Mr. Hempstead has kindly sent me the writings by the little girl Etta for
my inspection. There are three small sheets of paper with several attempts
at writing on both sides of each sheet. There are indications of ' Aunt '
124 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
and ' Emma ' on the first and second sheets ; Emma being written
tolerably well on the second sheet.
" The enclosed tracing is of the last attempt."
[An account (seen by me and concordant with the above) had been sent
by Mr. Hempstead to the Banner of Light immediately after the incident,
and was printed May 4th, 1889. I have seen the tracing of the last written
phrase, "your aunt Emma." It is a free scrawl, resembling the planchette-
writing of an adult rather than the first effort of a child.—F.W.H.M.l
I know not in what light I should have regarded my next case
had I seen it only in a book bearing the somewhat alarming title of
The Holy Truth, (Arthur Hallah, 1876). But just as my last-cited
narrative is not necessarily proved to be fictitious by having once
appeared in that not over-trustworthy periodical, Tlie Banner of LiglU,
so also the aggressiveness of religious conviction with which Mr. Hugh
Junor Browne's experiences have inspired him does not prevent his
being, as I have heard from the Hon. Sir W. G. Windeyer, Judge
of Supreme Court, Sydney, and have found on personal acquaintance,
a man of high standing as to both character and practical capacity.
He is a prosperous man of business at Melbourne, and the elder of the
two daughters with whose automatism we have to deal is married to
one of the foremost men of the Colony of Victoria. I regard him,
therefore, as a witness whose strong opinions, indeed, might help a
fraudulent medium to deceive him, but who is fully to be trusted as
regards easily-observed events occurring in his own family circle. I
discussed this case with him and Mrs. Browne on October 3rd, 1891.
Mrs. Browne seemed to me a good witness, and corroborated the facts
so far as immediately known to her, giving me a written confirmation
of the writing of the young child, who was present at our interview,
as a young lady of about twenty. Miss Browne cannot remember
the incident in her fifth year, but told me that she had sometimes
written automatically since that date ;—her arm used to feel numb
while doing so.
M. Aut. 71.
" In this [automatic writing] we were unsuccessful, until it came to the
turn of my eldest daughter, a girl of eleven years of age, to take the pencil
in hand. Immediately on her doing so her hand was influenced to write,
causing her to be considerably alarmed. She called out, ' Oh, mamma ! I
am so frightened, my hand is moving.' We all pacified her as much as pos
sible, and on taking up the paper we found her hand had written on it quite
legibly, though in rather tremulous characters, quite different from her
ordinary writing, the following sentence : ' Helen, Grace, Browne, I am
come to see you. Your beloved aunt. You will,' &c., &c. The remainder
of the writing was too faint to decipher. The name written above is that of
my second daughter, between five and six years of age, who is called after
two of her aunts, my sisters ; one of whom, the wife of an officer in the
The Subliminal Consciousness. 125
Indian army, passed away many years ago, having died on her passage home
from India, and whose spirit we afterwards ascertained influenced the girl's
hand to write this message to her little niece and namesake. We had a
number of communications through the same source that evening from
different spirit-friends, and since that time, except on two occasions, when
she said she felt no influence (a reason for which afterwards was given)
whenever my eldest girl sits down for the purpose of communicating with
our spirit-friends, her hand is almost immediately influenced to write. Her
hand has written as many as forty pages of large notepaper within half-
an-hour, which in her ordinary handwriting would take her several hours
to copy.
" My daughter is quite unaware of what she is writing and describes the
sensation of the influence as though electricity were running down her arm
from the shoulder. This is what is termed mechanical writing medium-
ship. She often writes far beyond her own powers of comprehension on
subjects of which she has not the least conception, spelling words correctly
which she does not understand, and of which, when read over, she inquires
the meaning—such words as clairvoyantly, physically, &c. At other times
she spells small words incorrectly which in her ordinary writing she would
spell correctly. She has written in French, of which language she knows
but the rudiments ; she has written in Chinese characters, and also in the
Kaffir language, of neither of which does she understand a word. She has
written in blank verse, which, though it would not stand the scrutiny of a
critic, is decidedly beyond her powers hi this line, she being more of a
romp than a student.
" My daughter has frequently been influenced to write messages to
strangers from their spirit-friends, giving them particulars about things of
which she could not possibly know anything, and signing correctly the
names of their spirit-friends in spirit-life of whom she had never before
heard. Her mother and I have thought of a question, to put to one of our
spirit-friends when she was not present, and calling her into the room have
given her a pencil and paper, and she has written a correct reply to the
question mentally asked, and signed the name of the spirit-friend of whom
we thought. She can write either looking away from or on to the paper. A
difference can be seen in the writing from each of our spirit-friends. If I
see even the word ' yea ' written through her, I can generally tell what
spirit is influencing the medium's hand. I have seen her write the letters
upside down, backwards, left-handed, and in various ways quite impossible
for the child to do herself, and sometimes so fast you can hardly see her
hand join the letters, and at other times slow ; sometimes in a very small
hand, at others in bold text-writing.
" On one occasion it was written through my daughter's hand that I was
to take a bottle of a specific I have for rheumatism to a Mr. Reed, directing
me to inquire at a shop in the next street to where he used to live and I
would be directed to where he then resided. I had formerly given a man of
this name some of this mixture, which had relieved him of the pain, but had
not seen or heard of him for months, and I was not aware that he had
removed from where he then lived. On calling at his former residence I
found he had removed, and on calling as instructed at the shop indicated I
126 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
was told where Reed then lived. I found him confined to his bed, suffering
acutely from rheumatism, and gave him the specific.
"I may mention another incident which occurred. One day when out
walking with my wife I met a black man whom I had never seen before, but
whom I recognised as a Kaffir from large holes made in his ears peculiar to
that race. I accosted him in his native tongue, at which he seemed rather
surprised, and I gave him my address, telling him to call on me. This he
did just as we were sitting down to investigate this subject. I told the
servant to show him into the room, and on asking him if any of his spirit-
friends were present, my daughter's hand wrote out several Kaffir names,
which on my reading out to him he recognised, and which evidently caused
him great astonishment. On asking if they had any message for him, a
sentence was written in the Kaffir language, some of the words of which
were beyond my comprehension. On my reading the message out to the
Kaffir he understood every word of it except one. This I pronounced in
various ways to try to make him comprehend, but all to no purpose, when my
daughter's hand was influenced to write 'Click with the mouth.' This
reminded me of a peculiar click which frequently accompanies the sounding
of the letter ' T ' in the Kaffir language, and on my pronouncing this word
he understood the meaning of it at once. I may state my daughter does not
know a word of Kaffir, having been born several years after I was last in
that country. I inquired who influenced her hand to write, as the art of
writing is generally unknown to Kaffirs, and was informed my old friend
H. S., whose native name was ' Nonquambeen,' had written the message
at the request of the Kaffir's spirit-friends. I may add H. S. was a well-
educated man, whose memory I hold in regard, and who when in this life
could talk the Kaffir language fairly, having been an old settler in Natal.
I explained to my Kaffir visitor that the Insleseea,or souls of his friends,were
present, at which he seemed rather terrified. I assured him there were
numbers of my spirit-friends present also, and that my children frequently
described both the spirits of my friends and of some of his countrymen who
were in my employ, and others whom I knew many years ago. This only
seemed to increase his fear. I think I have referred to Chinese having been
written through my daughter's hand imperfectly, and on my remarking that
I did not think it was like the Chinese characters, I was informed by one of
my Anglican spirit-friends that it was the first time the Chinese spirit had
influenced a medium to write, and that he would improve by practice. On
showing it to a Chinese (there were thirteen or fourteen pages of it) he could
not make out many of the characters, but here and there he said, ' That
means sound,' ' That means twenty, ' and so on, and remarked, 'This like
little China boy's writing, not know write good.'
"One day, while receiving communications through my daughter's hand, I
observed written, ' Put down that balloon.' I remarked to my wife, 'What
on earth have they to do with balloons in spirit-life ? ' She smiled, and told
me that our daughter had in her left hand one of those pink india-rubber toy
balloons, which she, childlike, had been trymg to inflate with her breath
whilst her right hand was writing the communications. I was sitting on the
medium's right-hand side, and was so interested in the communications as
written that I had not taken notice what she was doing with her left hand.
The Subliminal Consciousness. 127
on which side my wife sat. At another time, in reply to a query by me on
some deep theological matter, through my daughter's hand it was written,
' How can you expect an ans wer to such a question through a child's
organisation 1 ' I have several reams of paper filled with communications
received through my daughter's hand." (The Holy Truth, pp. 63-71.)
The incident of the child's writing is given in the same book (p. 71),
being then of quite recent date. I will, however, give here the account,
of course much later, but concordant, and in some points fuller, which
was given to me at the interview above mentioned.
M. Aut. 72.
' ' When our daughter Nelly was nearly five years old, she had not learned
a single letter of her alphabet. She had certainly received no instruction
whatever. One day her elder sister was writing automatically. To please
the child, we put a pencil in her hand. Presently we observed that she had
written some words, and on looking we saw that the words were ' I am a mes
meric medium.' [Words 'I am a' not present in earlier account.] She
had been under our eyes all the time. The words were written in a small
angular lady's handwriting. I then asked my elder daughter's 'guide,'
the late Dr. Godfrey Howitt, to explain this. Instead of the accustomed
writing, a message came in the writing of my elder sister, the late
Mrs. Colonel Kelso, to the effect : [here I give the correct wording as in
earlier record] ' She will be very mediumistic, but is too young to be in
fluenced ; do not let her sit until she is older, or you will injure her
health.' We did not let her write automatically for some years afterwards ;
then she did write for some little time, and then the power left her.
" Hogh Junob Browne.
" October 3rd, 1891." " Elizabeth Browne.
I must here close for the present my budget of evidence. In spite
of repeated limitations of the subject proposed for this paper, I have
been unable within my limits to deal adequately with any one group of
motor messages. Of the class last touched upon, indeed,—alleged
communications from the departed,—I have already in other papers
published several examples. Some of those have pointed, as some of
these fresh narratives do also point, towards a direct transmission from
a personality still vividly concerned with the loves and deeds of earth.
Other cases, especially in this present group, suggest something of less
personal intercourse, as though the communion were rather of man's
own incarnate spirit with some vaster knowledge existing somewhere
beyond his earthly ken.
But indeed the question, "Can I communicate with a departed
soul 1 " can seem simple only in so far as it is imperfectly understood. At
each end of that desired communication lies a group of problems which
only darken beneath our steadier gaze. Suppose that an inhabitant of
some other world were to ask me, " Can you communicate with other
men, and if so, with which men 1 " what should my answer be ? Can
128 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
I claim to communicate with Homer,—whose very personality is re
mote and uncertain,—in a truer sense than I communicate with a
living clown ? Must I not needs begin any intelligible reply by ex
plaining the bodily senses which I possess, and the forces of nature
which are to some extent at my disposal, and the power afforded by
printed books of holding converse with the past, or even of affecting
minds akin to mine in the near future 1 Is it not the answering thought,
the common emotion, which is the true companionship, whether words
and glances have passed between the two organisms or no 1
And if there be such difficulties in defining communication between
two personalities which still employ methods material, familiar, and
measurable, what will be the case when one of those interlocutors is
already " beyond our bounds of time and place," and operates by un
known forces from a centre inconceivable by men 1
For what indeed is to be our conception of identity prolonged
beyond the tomb 1 In earth-life the actual body, in itself but a sub
ordinate element in our thought of our friend, did yet by its physical
continuity override as a symbol of identity all lapses of memory, all
changes of the character within. Yet it was memory and character—
the stored impressions upon which he reacted, and his specific mode of re
action—which made our veritable friend. How much of memory, how
much of character must he preserve for our recognition ? We do not
ask that he or we should remember always, or should remember all.
It would suffice us if, as Plato has it, the potential memory of an
endless Past, lost for awhile in each dreamlike incarnation, should
revive in intercurrent spaces of absolute Being. But what if some
vaster memory should comprehend our friend's and ours, and should
speak for him with complete retrospection, and should know us better
than we know 1 Again, must his faults, his limitations, persist if we
are to love him still ? Or may memory be expanded into omniscience
and character elevated into divinity, if only the imagined Friend can
still be touched with the feeling of our infirmities 1
Nothing, surely, need be lost even if some part of what might
seem immediate converse with a soul known and dear should prove
rather to be a faint, a confused, a grotesque intimation that somewhat
within us also is an integral element in the Source and Sum of Things.
No communion of finite with finite soul can be like the communion of
finite soul with Infinite ;—" the flight of the One to the One." No
other knowledge can be like the knowledge that not far from every one
of us is that indwelling and limitless Spirit which—as one of these
strangely-written messages themselves has phrased it—" is at once
thine innermost Self and thine ever unattainable Desire."
The Defence of the Theosophists. 129
IT.
THE DEFENCE OF THE THEOSOPHISTS.
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
I cannot, I fear, anticipate that the paper which follows will prove
of thrilling interest to many of my readers ; nor can I even claim that
it has been rendered necessary by any evidence of doubt or hesita
tion among members of the S.P.R. as to the validity of the verdict
which was pronounced against Madame Blavatsky and her accomplices
in Part IX., Vol. III., of these Proceedings. Yet, if only for the sake
of historical completeness, it seems worth while to set forth in a short
article the absolute futility, in my judgment, of the appeals against
that verdict which have been thus far made. With the death of
Madame Blavatsky the whole discussion has lost much of its interest,
but what I have now to say may still be taken as tending in a certain
sense to the glorification of that lost leader, as showing how judicious
was the boldness with which she speculated on human gullibility ;—
how sage was her conviction that with the populus qui vull decipi no
such trifles as facts or figures will long be allowed to stand in the way.
In the expiring number (March, 1891) of the monthly magazine
Time, Mrs. Annie Besant made an attack upon my Report on
Phenomena connected with the Theosophical Society published in
Vol. III. of our Proceedings. Were I satisfied that the reader of
Mrs. Besant's article would consult my original Report for the purpose
of seeing how far her statements were justified, I would leave the
question as it stands. This, however, is hardly to be expected, and it
seems to me desirable that I should myself, as briefly as possible, point
out the chief mistakes made by Mrs. Besant, referring my readers for
additional details to the specific passages concerned in my original
Report.
Further, Mr. Sinnett, in the Revieiv of Reviews for June, 1891, has
repeated some statements which he had previously made as to the
method of my investigations,—and to which I replied at the time in
the Journal S.P.R. for November, 1885. My reply notwithstanding,
which concerns matters of fact easily verifiable by any intelligent
person, Mr. Sinnett has chosen to repeat these statements on more than
one occasion, without making any reference whatever to my reply, and
K
130 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
as our Journal is not readily accessible to the public I shall repeat my
reply here.
I shall also take this opportunity to notice some other statements
made by Mr. Sinnett in 1886, not long after the publication of my
original Report (December, 1885), and which I thought at that time
scarcely needed any fresh consideration. I refer to the pamphlet
entitled The " Occult World Phenomena," and the Societyfor Psychical
Research, and the volume entitled Incidents in the Life of Madame
Blavatsky.
I shall first ask the reader's attention to some general charges
made originally by Mr. Sinnett,—and partly repeated since by Mrs.
Besant,—to which I replied some years ago in the Journal S.P.R.
Mrs. Besant speaks of my " English ignorance of Hindu thought "
and " English contempt for Hindu veracity," and regards the Hindu
race apparently as one "that to guard its holy things from the insolent
foreigner will deny point-blank a belief that will be frankly acknow
ledged among sympathisers." Mr. Sinnett makes a similar suggestion
in his pamphlet on The " Occult World Phenomena," &c. (pp. 5-7) ;
and he has made other charges, which he repeats, in the Review of
Reviews, p. 556. Referring to my investigations he says : " That
gentleman never sought her [Madame Blavatsky's] explanations of the
,circumstances he thought suspicious, never showed her the originals of
the letters on which the whole accusation turned, and disguised his
unfavourable conclusions while staying as a guest at the Theosophical
headquarters." Now I cannot suppose that Mr. Sinnett did not see
my reply to some of these suggestions which he circulated among the
members of the S.P.R. in the form of a letter dated October 12th,
1885, addressed to the editor of Light; and his repetition of these
,charges—ignoring both my own reply made at the time and some
statements made still earlier by Professor Sidgwick—indicates that
his excess of zeal on behalf of Madame Blavatsky is leading him
into actions which to the " Western " mind, " unfamiliar with India
and Indian ways," seem somewhat questionable.1 I am under the
impression—subject to Mr. Sinnett's correction if I am wrong—that
1 Mr. F. \V. H. Myers, in a letter to the Review of Reviews for July, 1891, called
attention to another statement by Mr. Sinnett which "suggested an inference at
•variance with fact." Mr. Myers wrote in reply: "'At first,' says Mr. Sinnett, 'the
leaders of the S.P.R. undoubtedly accepted Mr. Hodgson's views.' If it is intended
to suggest that the members of the Committee who inquired into those alleged
marvels have since that date in any way modified their condemnatory judgment, that
suggestion is absolutely without foundation. I have not, indeed, encountered any
member of our Society who, having studied the evidence contained in Part IX. of our
Proceedings (published by Triibner in 1885, and to be had of any bookseller), has found
his judgment in any degree affected by any of the so-called replies, or protestations
of innocence, which have as yet been given to the public."
The Defence of the Theosophists. 131
some leading Theosophists, on seeing the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters,1
took refuge in the explanation (broached by one of the " Mahatmas " 1 )
that they were forgeries perpetrated by Black Magicians, and I
suppose that Mr. Sinnett was anxious to obtain an expression of
Madame Blavatsky's opinion, from some occult point of view, upon the
authorship of the letters. Otherwise it is difficult to see what light
she could possibly throw on the subject by inspection of the originals.
From the Theosophists' point of view Madame Blavatsky was not an ex
pert in handwriting; from the point of view of the Editor of the Madras
Christian College Magazine, in whose possession the letters were, she
was an unscrupulous intriguer who would not hesitate to use any oppor
tunity that she might get of tampering with the letters in question. Had
the letters been in my own exclusive possession, I should have felt com
pelled to exercise great care to prevent Madame Blavatsky's obtaining
any such opportunity. But the letters were not mine, and I had no
permission to show them to Madame Blavatsky even had she asked
me to do so, as she did not ; doubtless because she was well aware
that I had no such control over them. All this and more I sufficiently
indicated in my letter to the Journal S.P.R., November, 1885,—•
which, as I have said above, I cannot suppose that Mr. Sinnett has
not seen.
The following is an extract from my letter :—
In the first place I had no authority to show these letters to Madame
Blavatsky, and Madame Blavatsky well knew that I had none. She
frequently asked me whether I had seen the letters myself, and she knew
that a considerable time had elapsed before I had an opportunity of doing
so, in consequence of the absence from Madras of the Editor of the Christian
College Magazine; and when I was first enabled to inspect them, I spoke
to her of certain restrictions which were placed—I think quite rightly—
upon my use of them. Several of them I had in my own possession for
a day or two only, for my own examination. The remaining ones I
examined in the house of a gentleman in whose custody they were at the
time, and two groups of them were eventually entrusted to me for the specific
purpose of being sent to England for the judgment of the best caligraphic
experts obtainable here (a fact of which I did not think it necessary to
inform Madame Blavatsky), under the particular condition that they should
be returned as soon as possible ; and they were actually sent back to India
before my arrival in England. Those which I had in my own posssesion
for a short time I was requested not to take on my own responsibility
to the headquarters of the Theosophical Society, the Editor of the Christian
1 It will be remembered that these were the documents adduced in support of
their charge of fraud against Madame Blavatsky by M. and Madame Coulomb, who
had been attached to the Theosophical Society for several years in positions of trust,
M. and Madame Coulomb alleged—correctly, as investigation showed,—that these
documents were written by Madame Blavatsky and afforded clear proof of trickery
on her part. I have quoted from some of them in my Report, pp. 211-219.
K 2
132 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
College Magazine being naturally apprehensive that Madame Blavatsky
might seize an opportunity of tampering with them. 1 In the second place,
Madame Blavatsky had explicitly pronounced certain portions of them to
be forgeries, when they were first published, and I should be surprised to
learn that she had ever expressed any wish to see the originals while I was at
Madras. Had she done so, I have no doubt that some arrangement would
have been made according to which she would have had the liberty of
inspecting them in the presence of witnesses. That T do not say this
unadvisedly is sufficiently shown by the fact that some of the disputed
letters were taken to the headquarters of the Society and shown to
Theosophists, in September, 1884, in consequence of a request by Major-
General Morgan to seo the letter in which he was concerned. The Editor
of the Christian College Magazine writes in the number for April, 1885 :—
"We took with us to headquarters four of the disputed letters, and
freely allowed all present to examine them. In return we asked to be
permitted to see some of Madame Blavatsky's recent letters to Dr. Hartmann,
Damodar, or anyone at headquarters. This request was complied with only
to the extent of showing us a portion of a letter written from Paris. Xo
Thbosophist has ever asked to see any other letter, or his request
would have been, under proper precautions, at once complied with."
I have no doubt that what the editor of the magazine quoted says
is true, and that Madame Blavatsky never requested permission to
see the letters. In the face of these explanations of mine, but with
out making any reference to them, Mr. Sinnett repeats the statement
that I never showed Madame Blavatsky the originals of the letters in
dispute,—a statement quite true in itself, but introduced by Mr.
Sinnett in a way distinctly and apparently intentionally calculated to
mislead the reader concerning the actual circumstances.
In what way my alleged ignorance of the natives operated I am
somewhat at a loss to conceive, and I may here quote another passage
from my letter (Journal S.P.R., November, 1885) in reply to Mr.
Sinnett :—
He speaks of my " unfamiliarity with India and Indian ways " as having
led me "into many serious mistakes." Of course I do not claim the
familiarity with India which Mr. Sinnett possesses, but I do not see how
this fact can affect my investigation in the way Mr. Sinnett seems to
suppose. He may, indeed, mean that I ought not to have been surprised to
find that certain chelas told mo deliberate falsehoods, and that had I been
more familiar with Indian ways I should have known that such falsehoods
were the natural outcome of "Occultism." This I am not concerned to
dispute ; but if he means that my unfamiliarity with India and Indian ways
rendered me incapable of taking down evidence correctly, of comparing
documents and drawing reasonable inferences, of examining envelopes which
had been surreptitiously opened, of carefully exploring the interstices of
ceilings and other localities where marvellous phenomena were alleged to
1 I was allowed only a similar degree of liberty with certain documents which I
obtained from Theosophists.
The Defence of the Theosophists. 133
have occurred, I must simply join issue with him. It was, at any rate, not
unfamilarity with Indian ways that led the Parsee gentleman, Mr. K. M.
Seervai, formerly Vice-President of the Theosophical Society at Bombay, to
give up all connection with the Society, or that led Mr. S. K. Chatterjee,
formerly President of the Lahore Branch, to declare that the Society was
"a huge imposture, " or that led Mr. A. 0. Hume, long before the exposures
of the Coulombs, to the opinion that some of the chdas were morally
untrustworthy—that the Shrine was a "conjurer's box"—and that many
other of Madame Blavatsky's phenomena were fraudulently produced, or that
led Pundit Dayanund Saraswati, the President of the Arya Somaj of India,
to inform the public, in 1882, that "neither Colonel Olcott nor Madame
Blavatsky knows anything of Yog Vidya (occult science) as practised by the
Yogis of old," and that "for them to say that they perform their
phenomena without apparatus, without any secret pre-arrangement, and
solely through the forces existing in nature (electricity), and by what they
call their ' will-power,' is to tell a lie."
The other general statements which I have quoted from Mr.
Sinnett are also misrepresentations, and further show his ignorance of
the state of affairs at Adyar. When Madame Blavatsky was likely to
have anything to say of any importance whatever, I questioned her on
the matter. Her replies consisted chiefly in the trumping up of ex post
facto documents, in deliberate falsehoods, and the suborning of false
testimony. For references to Madame Blavatsky's statements see my
Report, pp. 211, 221 note, 292 note, 318-321, 324, 331, 335-6, 346.
Mr. Sinnett speaks of my disguising my " unfavourable conclusions
while staying as a guest at the Theosophical headquarters." In the
first place I had no " conclusions " at the time referred to. I reached
Madras on December 18th, 1884, went to stay at the Theosophical
Headquarters on December 25th, and left on January 3rd, though of
course I made frequent calls there afterwards until the end of my stay
in India, March 26th, 1885. As an instance of the way in which the
expression of my unfavourable conclusions was met as regards one
special part of my investigation, I may refer to a case given in my
Report, pp. 335-6. I had pointed out that there was no satisfactory
evidence that anyone had examined the west side of the wall immedi
ately behind the Shrine. (The Shrine was a cupboard placed in the
so-called Occult Room, which adjoined Madame Blavatsky's bedroom.
It was fixed against the party-wall between the two rooms. Letters
and other objects were alleged to have appeared in it by other than
ordinary means. The evidence adduced in my Report went to show
that they were put there surreptitiously through a sliding panel at the
back, to which there was access through Madame Blavatsky's
bedroom.) This was early in February. The result was an ex post
facto Mahatma letter foisted upon Colonel Olcott by Madame
Blavatsky, who by means of it succeeded in engendering a pseudo
134 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
memory in Colonel Olcott's mind that he had incidentally made such
examinations himself. I assumed Colonel Olcott's innocence in the
matter ; the reader of my Report may remember that I quoted Madame
Blavatsky as calling Colonel Olcott a " psychologised baby " (Report,
p. 311). In the second place, when I did reach my final conclusions, I
communicated them at Adyar with some interesting results, of which
Mr. Sinnett is manifestly ignorant. On February 23rd I left Madras
for Bombay. There I obtained much important evidence by my own
inquiries, and made the personal acquaintance of Mr. A. O. Hume,
who gave me much assistance then and afterwards. On March 11th
I returned to Madras, whither Mr. Hume had preceded me. In the
course of the next few days I discussed the results of my investigations
with the leading Theosophists at Adyar. It was on the evening of
March 1 3th,at a conference between Dr. Hartmann, Mr. and Mrs. Cooper-
Oakley, Mr. Hume and myself, that Dr. Hartmann finally confessed
that " nobody was allowed to touch that d Shrine," and he then
related the incident described on p. 224 of my Report, concerning the
discovery of the sliding panel of the Shrine and the subsequent destruc
tion of the Shrine itself. I had learned from Mr. A. D. Ezekiel, in
Bombay, that he had discovered independently that there had once
been a hole in the wall behind the Shrine, but that it had been care
fully blocked up. Dr. Hartmann then admitted that traces of thia
hole had been discovered previously, but the discovery was kept a
secret. On the following morning Mr. Hume drew up some statements
to form proposed resolutions for an informal meeting to be held in the
evening by himself, the Oakleys, Hartmann, Ragoonath Row, Subba-
Row, and P. Sreenevas Row. These were to the effect that most of
the phenomena in connection with the Theosophical Society were
fraudulent, as appears from such of the Coulombs' statements as have
been verified, and the independent investigations by myself, that the
Society be reconstituted, that Madame Blavatsky, Olcott, Damodar,
Babajee and Bhavani Shankar should resign their connection with it,
that the disputed letters are genuine, and that Hartmann's pamphlet 1
as well as the Defence pamphlet2 should be withdrawn, as being founded
1 Report of Observation! made during a nine months' stay at the headquarters of
the Theosophical Society at Adyar {Madras), India, by F. Hartmann, M.D., P.T.S.
* Other curious incidents in connection with this pamphlet were known to some of
the Theosophists at the Adyar headquarters as well as to myself. The "Defence
Pamphlet " was compiled chiefly by Dr. Hartmann, and is that quoted from by Mrs.
Besant, who refers to it as " 'Report of the Result of an Investigation,' by a Com
mittee of the Council of the Theosophical Society, Madras, 1885." It is also quoted
from by Mr. Sinnett in The " Occult World Phenomena," and the Society for
Psychical Research. This "Defence Pamphlet" was issued in March, 1886. Its
full title is : Report of the Result of an Investigation into the charges against
Madame Blavatsky, brought by the Missionaries of the Scottish Free Church at
The Defence of the Theosophists. 135
on an imperfect knowledge of the circumstances. These resolutions,
as I was informed by Mr. Hume, were not carried, the Oakleys and
Dr. Hartmann being unwilling to go so far as to condemn the pheno
mena as fraudulent. It was decided, however, that the pamphlets
should be withdrawn. The circulation of these pamphlets was there
fore stopped, and early in April the following announcement appeared
in the Madras Mail :—
" The Theosophists.—Colonel Olcott writes on behalf of the General
Council of the Theosophist Society to say that ' as a number of copies of a
pamphlet entitled Report of the Result of the Investigations into the Charges
broityht against Madame Blavatsky have been circulated, it is my duty to
state that the issue has not been ordered by the General Council, nor
authorised by the Committee.' "
It is from this pamphlet, officially disowned by the Theosophical
Society, that Mr. Sinnett and Mrs. Besant, as we shall see later, quote
accounts of examinations of the Shrine. But what I desire the reader
at present to note is that the pamphlet was thus officially disowned
in consequence of my communicating to the leading Theosophists at
Adyar the results of my investigations. Madame Blavatsky's atti
tude to myself, as expressed at the time, was as characteristic as her
subsequent vituperation. With her keen insight into human nature,
she was well aware that whatever prepossessions I had at the outset of
my investigation were distinctly in her favour, and in the last interview
which I had with herself and Colonel Olcott, she declared that the
Brotherhood was unwilling that the world should at this time believe
in their existence, that I had in fact been practically guided by the
Brothers themselves, that she knew I had done the most possible for
her sake, that there was no alternative but for me to reach the con
clusion which I had reached, that it was partly the result of her own
bad Karma, that she deserved the fate which had overtaken her, but
that some day in the far distant future' I might come to believe that
after all she was innocent. With me personally, face to face, she was
courageous unto the last.
I pass on to consider the article by Mrs. Besant. She alleges that
my " prejudice " made me " welcome every unproven suspicion or
charge made by known enemies of the Theosophical Society, and ignore
all evidence tendered by friends." As to the "prejudice," it was
Madronx and examined by a Committee appointed for that purpose by the General
Council of the Theosophical Society. The full title of the other pamphlet, referred
to above as " Hartmann'b pamphlet," is: Report of Observation* made during a
nine months' stay at the headquarters of the Theosophical Society at Adyar (Madras),
India, by f. Hartmann, M.D., F.T.S. (an American Buddhist). The first edition
was issued in September, 1884, and marked "[Private and Confidential] "; the second
edition was published apparently in October, 1884.
130 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
known to my personal friends and also I believe to some of the leading
Theosophists at the time in London, that whatever " prejudice " I may
have had was certainly not against the genuineness of the phenomena
connected with Madame Blavatsky (Report, p. 208). I was, as a
matter of fact,' prepossessed in her favour. Mrs. Besant states that I
ignored "all evidence tendered by friends," yet she claims to have
read my Report "carefully." If so, she should recall that apart from the
question of handwriting the great bulk of the evidence offered in my
Report was furnished by Theosophists themselves (e.g., Report, Appen
dix IV.), while the remaining part of the evidence consisted almost
exclusively of information verifiable by any person, such as my own
descriptions of specific places like the rooms and grounds of Crow's
Nest Bungalow, or of the Adyar Headquarters, or the items in account
books of well-known shops in Madras, or the facts about certain letters
and documents (see Report, Appendices V., XIV., and XV.). I do
not suppose that Mrs. Besant has any deliberate intention of mis
representing the nature of the evidence furnished in my Report,
though the reader who goes to that Report to see whose statements
are regarded as evidence will naturally be surprised at the absurdity of
her assertion.
Mrs. Besant then passes from the general charge of prejudice to a
more specific one of dishonesty, alleging as follows :—
There is one crucial instance of Mr. Hodgson's lack of honesty ; he
publishes a "Plan of Occult Room, with Shrine and Surroundings (from
measurements taken by R. Hodgson, assisted by the statements of Theo-
sophic witnesses)." On p. 220 Mr. Hodgson says that " the accompanying
rough sketch made from measurements of my own shows the positions." As
a matter of fact, the place when Mr. Hodgson saw it had been so altered
that "measurements" were impossible ; the holes he shows in the plan did
not exist when he saw the rooms ; but it will be better for me to let the
author of the plan speak for himself, only saying that he is Mr. William
Judge, a New York lawyer of standing and repute, with a character to lose,
and that Mr. Judge went from New York to Adyar with authority from
Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott, to look into the conduct of the
Coulombs and the management of the place, and arrived the day after the
Coulombs had been dismissed. He says : " I made a plan of how it had been
left by Coulomb, and that plan it is that Hodgson pirated in his report, and
desires people to think his, and to be that which he made on the spot, while
looking at that which he thus pretends to have drawn. He never could have
seen it as Coulomb had left it." I venture to suggest that the pirating of
another person's plan, with '' measurements " of things that no longer existed
when Mr. Hodgson visited Adyar, is not consistent with good faith.—Time,
pp. 195-6.
I repeat : " Plan of Occult Room with Shrine and Surroundings
(from measurements taken by R. Hodgson, assisted by the statements
The Defence of the Theosophists. 137
of Theosophic witnesses)." I also repeat the other passage which Mrs.
Besant quotes, but I repeat this with the context :—
One large upper room of the main bungalow was used by Madame
Blavatsky (see Plan). The Occult Room was built later, against the west
side of Madame Blavatsky's room. The north window on this side was
removed, and a layer of bricks and plaster covered the aperture on the side
of the Occult Boom—a recess about 15in. deep being left on the east side.
The south window was transformed into a doorway leading from Madame
Blavatsky's room into the Occult Room. Madame Blavatsky's large room
was divided into two by curtains and a screen ; that adjoining the Occult
Boom being used by Madame Blavatsky as her bedroom, and at the end of
1883 as her dining-room also. The accompanying rough sketch made from
measurements of my own shows the positions, the Occult Room being about
2ft. lower than Madame Blavatsky's room. The general entrance to the
Occult Room was through Madame Blavatsky's sitting-room (Proceedings
S.P.R., Part IX., p. 220).
Now the reader will observe that in the title of my Plan I have
described myself as assisted by the statements of Theosophic witnesses.
It is clear from my Report for what particulars I had to depend on
the statements of Theosophists. The important points concerned the
size and position of the Shrine, the position of the hole in the wall
immediately behind the Shrine, and the position of the sideboard. I
questioned Theosophists at Adyar for their estimates on these points,
and formed judgment accordingly. (See my Report, pp. 224-6, and
Appendix IV.) Further, for all that I know to the contrary, Mrs.
Besant may confirm my own measurements now on all the other points
of any importance by a visit to Adyar. The walls and doors and
windows, ifcc., may still be in existence ; so also may the recess in the
party-wall between the Occult Room and that formerly used by
Madame Blavatsky as a bedroom. The sideboard may still be where
I saw it last, in the " New Room,"— and the bricked frame that once
served to hide the recess may yet be lying in the dust-heap of the
compound.
• I shall now quote passages from my Report to show that there
were certain measurements which I distinctly and expressly pointed
out I was unable to make ; and others which I distinctly and expressly
pointed out that I was able to make. Mrs. Besant quotes from p. 220.
She does not quote, however, what I say on that page about the
Shrine's disappearance before my arrival at Adyar, nor does she quote
the following statement :—
Moreover, the Occult Room, when I first received permission to inspect
it, had been considerably altered ; its walls were covered with fresh plaster,
and I was informed by Mr. Damodar that all traces of the alleged
" machinations " of the Coulombs in connection with the Shrine had been
obliterated. This was not true, for the bricked frame and the aperture into
the recess still existed (see p. 228). However, under the circumstances
138 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
it was impossible for me to test the accuracy of much of the description
given by Theosophists of the Occult Room and the Shrine at the time of
the "exposure "by the Coulombs. But by analysing and comparing the
evidence given by various witnesses, I was able to put together the following
history of the Shrine and its surroundings.1
Again, on pp. 228, 229 I wrote :—
Dr. Hartmann in his pamphlet gave the dimensions of the aperture as
27in. high by 14in. wide, and these dimensions are as nearly as possible
correct. This I was subsequently able to ascertain for myself, as the frame
had been stowed away in the compound, and was shown to me by another
Theosophist. The recess was alleged by Dr. Hartmann to be about 12in.
deep, and about 5ft. high ; the depth given is about correct, but the height
was more nearly 8ft.—as I found by measurement.
I have thus explicitly pointed out in my Report that there were
certain measurements which I was unable to make, and certain others,
especially concerning the size of the recess and the aperture to it, which,
notwithstanding the alterations in connection with the Occult Room,
I was able to make and did make, and references to these points are
given on the very page from which Mrs. Besant draws her quotation,
which she separates from the context, and so makes it convey—I do
not say intentionally—a false impression. She then goes on to mis
represent me as claiming to have made measurements which I have
thus explicitly pointed out in my Report I was unable to make. And
she asserts that she has read my Report " carefully."
But this is far from being the whole of Mrs. Besant's misrepre
sentation. She asserts that the Plan which I made was made by
a "Mr. William Judge." Now, the only plans, except my own, of
Occult Room and Surroundings, that I ever heard of, were (1) an
incomplete plan of the walls only —made by M. Coulomb after his
departure from the Theosophical Headquarters, and (2) the plan
which was published in the pamphlet by Dr. Hartmann entitled
Report of Observations made during a nine months' stay at the
Headquarters of the Theosophical Society at Adyar (Madras), India.
Both of these plans, as I found by my own measurements, were inac
curate. The one published by Dr. Hartmann, indeed, was absurdly
inaccurate. Perhaps this was the one made by Mr. Judge. Dr. Hart-
mann's pamphlet was both prepared and issued during Mr. Judge's
stay at Adyar. I reproduce this plan here so that the reader may
compare it with mine (Proceedings, Part IX.).
1 For the evidence on which this account is based see Appendix IV.
The Defence of the Theosophists. 139
Shelf.
Sitting Room
o
c
C
+ b Partilion.
Ward robp
•I Door
Bed Room.
Book.
Case.
| Shrine. I
" Occult Room."
Desk.
Sofa.
I do not, of course, know whether Mr. Judge ever made any other
plan at all. I see at present no sufficient reason for supposing that he
did. But if he did make any other plan, and if it agrees with mine, I
venture to congratulate Mr. Judge that he was so close in his judgment
about the recess, to which on his own showing he had no access except
140 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
by the aperture in the bricked frame, and which I was able to measure
easily as the bricked frame was removed during my stay at Madras.
I also venture to congratulate myself that his measurements of the
size and position of the Shrine are found to justify my estimate formed
from the various statements of the Theosophic witnesses. Mr. Judge
had opportunity enough for the measurement of the Shrine. I take
the following passage from my Report, p. 224 :—
The ultimate fate of the Shrine, according to a statement made by Dr.
Hartmann to Mr. and Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, Mr. Hume, and myself, was as
follows. After the expulsion of the Coulombs, Mr. Judge, an American
Theosophist, then residing at the headquarters of the Society, was desirous
of examining the Shrine. Mr. Damodar, who possessed the keys of the
Occult Room, avoided this examination several times on one pretext or
another ; but, eventually, a party of Theosophists proceeded to the inspec
tion of the Shrine. The Shrine was removed from the wall and its doors
were opened. Mr. T. Vigiaraghava Charloo (commonly called Ananda), a
Theosophist residing in an official position at the headquarters, struck the
back of the Shrine with his hand, exclaiming, " You see, the back is quite
solid," when, to the surprise of most of those who were present, the middle
panel of the Shrine flew up. It seemed undesirable to some of the witnesses
of this phenomenon that the discovery should be made public, and they
resolved accordingly to destroy the Shrine. To do this they considered that
the Shrine must be surreptitiously removed, but such removal was incon
venient from the Occult Room. The Shrine was therefore first removed
openly to Mr. Damodar's room, and, on the following night, was thence
removed secretly by three Theosophists, concealed in the compound, after
wards broken up, and the fragments burned piecemeal during the following
week.
In a written account furnished to me by Dr. Hartmann, given in
full on p. 225 of my Report, allusion is also made to these incidents 1 :—
It was found that the back of the Shrine could be removed, and on
moistening the wall behind the Shrine with a wet cloth, it was found that an
aperture had existed, which had been plastered up. ... It seemed to
me that if at that inopportune moment this new discovery, to which I then
alluded in the papers (see Madras Mail), would have been made public, it
would have had a bad effect on the public mind. ... A gentleman who
was present, and who shared my opinions, was of the opinion that the Shrine
1 The defence originally offered by the Theosophists was that M. Coulomb had
made the trick apparatus after Madame Blavatsky's departure from Adyar, but had
not had time to complete his tricks, and as one of the proofs of this they pointed out
tbat there was no hole in the wall immediately behind the Shrine. When it was
afterwards discovered that not only did the Shrine have a sliding panel in the back,
but that a hole had once existed in the wall, thus completing the required communica
tion between the Shrine and Madame Blavatsky's bedroom, it became obvious that
the defence originally put forward was very unsatisfactory ; so unsatisfactory indeed
that Mr. Judge and Dr. Hartmann, to "save the situation," suppressed tha
discoveries and destroyed the Shrine. (See Report, pp. 340-1.)
The Defence of the Theoscrphiats. 141
had been too much desecrated to be of any more use, and he burned the
Shrine in my presence.
This gentleman, according to Dr. Hartmann's statement to us, was
Mr. Judge.
Nor was this the only instance in which Mr. Judge was willing to
act for the purpose of " saving the situation." One of the Blavatsky-
Coulomb documents refers to an attempt to deceive Mr. Jacob Sassoon
by a spurious marvel, viz., a telegram supposed to be sent by a Rama
linga Deb. The telegram was sent by Madame Coulomb according to
instructions from Madame Blavatsky (Report, pp. 211, 217-8,318-321),
and it was clear that Ramalinga Deb was a fictitious personage.
Madame Blavatsky's letter to Madame Coulomb arranging for this
marvel was published in the Madras Christian College Magazine for
September, 1884. I take the following passage from a later article in
the Madras Christian College Magazine for April, 1885 :—
Mr. W. Q. Judge wrote the following letter on the subject to some of the
leading Indian newspapers :—
"In this matter which has now spread all over India very much has been
made of the sending a telegram to Madame Blavatsky signed ' Ramalinga
Deb,' which was done, the Christian College Magazine says, by order of
Madame Blavatsky in order to commit a fraud.
We wish the public and all our friends to know that this telegram
incident is perfectly clear to us. We know Mr. Ramalinga Deb very well.
We also know how Mrs. Coulomb obtained possession of the receipt and of
a copy of the telegram.
But as this is an important point in the case we must refuse, at this-
moment, to inform our enemies what the evidence and explanation are.
At the proper time and before the proper tribunal we will produce both
Mr. Deb and the explanation, when Mrs. Coulomb will have an opportunity
of confronting the substance of that shadow which is called by her in the
Christian College Magazine 'Ramalinga Deb.'
I am, &c.,
William Q. Judge, F.T.S.,
Barrister-at-Law.''
What, we would ask, has become of the substance of Mr. Ramalinga Deb
now ? Or what, indeed, of the substance of Mr. Judge himself ? That
gentleman has, we believe, preferred a trip to America to the more hazardous
enterprise of producing " Mr. Deb and the explanation."
I cannot profess myself to attribute any importance to Mr. Judge's
testimony. If he acted as the representative of Madame Blavatsky
in these cases, to " save the situation " at Adyar, he may have acted in
other cases also to " prolong the situation," and I may here remark
that it would be very easy for Madame Blavatsky in a short time to
produce a number of persons who could master the characteristics of
the K. H. writing sufficiently to deceive the elect like Mrs. Besant,
142 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
and that when Mrs. Besant speaks of having received K. H. letters
after Madame Blavatsky's death, we need to know the precise circum
stances according to the accounts of cautious witnesses before we can
regard her statement as worthy of serious consideration. But not
even Mrs. Besant has offered more than a general statement which
seems to represent her mere opinion.
We may now consider some other statements which Mrs. Besant
quotes from this same Mr. Judge about the aperture made into the
recess.
Mr. Judge—who saw the hole—describes it as " a rough, unfinished hole
in the wall, opening into the space left when the old door had been bricked
up. . . . This hole began at the floor, and extended up about 22 inches.
From each edge projected pieces of lath, some three inches, others five
inches long, so that the opening was thus further curtailed. . . . The
plaster was newly broken off, the ends of the laths presented the appear
ance of freshly broken wood, and the wall-paper had been freshly torn off."
These facts were seen and signed to by over 30 gentlemen, sent for by Mr.
Judge as witnesses. Mr. Judge further tells us that, at his request, Mr.
Damodar tried to get into the recess through the hole, but could not ; Mr.
Judge himself tried and failed, as did a "thin coolie " ; finally, "a small boy
about ten years of age " squeezed in, but found that he could not stand
upright, for there were large pieces of hard mortar projecting from the sides.
Mr. Judge then sent fora man, who " in my presence bricked up the aperture,
replastered it, and then repapered the whole space." What, then, becomes
of Mr. Hodgson's " measurements " and his statement that the space was
sufficient for a person to stand in ? (Time, pp. 199-200.)
With these statements of Mr. Judge we may compare the state
ments of two other prominent Theosophists, as examples of conflicting
testimonies. Dr. Hartmann writes in the pamphlet already referred
to (Report of Observations, ifec., p. 39) :—
The wall behind the "shrine" in the "occult" room was found to be partly
hollow, forming a space of about 5 feet high and 3J feet wide, with a depth
of twelve inches between the walls, and with an aperture of about 14 inches
wide, by 27 inches high, sufficiently large for a little boy (who was not
afraid of suffocation) to crawl in, and opening into the bedroom next to the
" occult " room. This aperture was hidden by a heavy piece of furniture
resembling a cupboard or clothes press, and it could be entered through the
same by opening the door of the cupboard and removing a sliding panel (d)
at the back.
And Damodar, in his first reply to Dr. Hartmann's circular of
inquiry, wrote as follows (Report, p. 336) :—
As regards the hole [through the sideboard into the recess] ... in
the presence of Dr. Hartmann and Mr. Lane-Fox, I attempted to enter it.
All who know me or have seen me are aware how thin and lean I am ; and
although I was almost half naked at the time, I could enter the "hole" with
The Defence of the Theosophists. 143
difficulty. And when once inside I could only stand abreast without being
able to move, either way, an inch, or to lift up my hand.
I pointed out in my Report (pp. 228-9) that the dimensions of the
aperture as given by Dr. Hartmann were " as nearly as possible correct.
This I was subsequently able to ascertain for myself as the frame had
been stowed away in the compound, and was shown to me by another
Theosophist." This was the bricked frame which filled the front of the
recess, and through which the aperture had been made.
The recess was alleged by Dr. Hartmann to be about 12in. deep and about
5ft. high ; the depth given is about correct, but the height was more nearly
8ft.—as I found by measurement. I have myself entered a space through a
hole the dimensions of both of which were at least an inch less than the
dimensions given by Dr. Hartmann. The hole I made for the purpose
measured less than 13in. by 26in. , and the space into which it led, and in
which I stood upright, was less than llin. in depth. In this space I could
with ease lift my hand, manipulate objects, and utilise the position generally
in the way demanded for the production of the Shrine phenomena,.
Another Theosophist assured me that " he regarded the aperture
and the recess as quite large enough to be used by a person of ordinary
size for the production of the Shrine phenomena." This gentleman was
Mr. A. D. Ezekiel, of Poona, the same discerning witness who dis
covered that a hole had once existed in the wall immediately behind
the Shrine, but had afterwards been blocked up (Report, pp. 224-5),
and who also detected in the ceiling the "screw-rings"1 which had
been used in the production of a spurious letter-phenomenon intended
for his benefit (Report, p. 249).
When, therefore, I stated in my Report that the space in question
was sufficient for a person to stand in, I did so while giving my
readers full information as to how I was able to make the measure
ments, and I quoted the measurements given by Dr. Hartmann, differ
ing with him only as to the height of the recess, which he gave as 5ft.2
and which I found to be nearly 8ft. Dr. Hartmann assuredly cannot
be accused of having at that time any prejudice against Madame
Blavatsky. He was, on the contrary, one of her warmest partisans ; he
1 Mr. Ezekiel informed me that he was at Adyar some time after the " exposure "
by the Coulombs, and Mr. Judge ehalh'nged him to point out the contrivances men
tioned above. Mr. Ezekiel looked up at the ceiling and found that they had dis
appeared, but he pointed out to Mr. Judge the marks of the fresh paint which showed
where they had been. Mr. Judge said nothing.
' This, I think, waa not an intentional misrepresentation by Dr. Hartmann. He
evidently estimated the height of the recess when the only access to it was through
the aperture 14x27 in., and he may have taken a statement by Damodar as to its
height, Damodar, according to tiis own written statement, having entered it in the
presence of Dr. Hartmann. Later on. long after Dr. Hartmann's pamphlet was
published, and while I was at Madras, the bricked frame waa removed, so that I was
able to measure both the bricked frame and the recess.
144 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
had been nine months at Adyar when he published his pamphlet ; and'
three months and a half—ample time for his measurements—had
elapsed since the departure of the Coulombs. What then, will the
reader think of Mrs. Besant's charge against me on the strength of a
written statement made by Mr. Judge to herself apparently some years
later 1 Those of my readers who have followed my accounts, in other
articles, of the unreliability of human testimony, may perhaps be will
ing to let Mr. Judge's statements pass as a case of ordinary lapse of
memory. But Mrs. Besant, claiming to have read my Report " care
fully," and with the evidence in that Report presumably before her con
cerning Dr. Hartmann's statements as published in his pamphlet—-
which surely Mrs. Besant ought to have also studied carefully,—makes
no reference whatever either to the detailed circumstances of my
measurements, or the explicit declarations of Dr. Hartmann, who wrote
in defence of Madame Blavatsky.
I shall now proceed to deal with Mrs. Besant's other (doubtless
unintentional) misrepresentations. Tn dealing with the question of
structures for trickery in connection with the Shrine, she makes it
appear that I have adduced the statements of the Coulombs as evidence.
" All this Mr. Hodgson learned from the veracious M. Coulomb, and
nobody else." A reference to my Report will show how far this is
from being true. My consideration of the Shrine and surroundings
will be found chiefly on pp. 220-231 and pp. 325-341. On pp. 220-1 I
give the early history of the Occult Room and Shrine, which depends,
as I expressly pointed out, on the statements of Theosophic witnesses.
On pp. 221-2 I give the statements of M. Coulomb in a single separate
paragraph by themselves, and point out that his " statement as to the
half panel cannot of course be verified, and must be taken for what it
is worth. What evidence there is in support of his other statements
will be seen from the remainder of my narrative, derived from other
sources." I then proceed with the later history of the Shrine, up to
M. Coulomb's delivery of the keys and the investigation of the various
contrivances for trickery. I stated clearly the view put forward in
defence of Madame Blavatsky :—
The Theosophists contended that the structures for trickery revealed by
the Coulombs, who had had exclusive charge of Madame Blavatsky's rooms
during her absence, had been made after she had left ; that they had never
been and could not be used in the production of phenomena ; that the
hollow space and aperture leading to it were too small to be utilised in any
connection with the Shrine, and moreover that M. Coulomb's work was
interrupted before he had time to make a hole through the wall between
the hollow space and the Shrine itself.
I then discuss, entirely apartfrom any statements whatever made by
The Defence of the Theosophists. 145
the Coulombs, the evidence given on these points by Theosophists, and
I quote all the important part of this evidence in detail in Appendix
IV., giving much fuller and more numerous citati«ns than Mrs. Besant
herself has given, and quoting also the replies of many of the witnesses
to my own personal inquiries made on the spot. In drawing my con
clusions I did not depend on a single statement made by the Coulombs,
as the reader may easily see for himself. My conclusions were
(Report, p. 226) :—
(1) That the position selected for the Shrine was peculiarly convenient for
obtaining secret access to it from the back ; and that none of the changes
from time to time made in Madame Blavatsky's bedroom behind the Shrine,
though made with the ostensible object of removing all suspicion of trickery,
tended to diminish this convenience ; (2) that there undoubtedly were all
the necessary apertures for access to the Shrine from the back, at some period
before the Coulombs left ; (3) that there is no trustworthy evidence whatever
to show that this access did not exist during the whole time from the
moment the Shrine was put up till Madame Blavatsky left for Europe, in
February, 1884, except during the alterations connected with putting up
the bricked frame, when Mrs. Morgan saw the whole wall papered over ; and
there is no evidence of the occurrence of any Shrine phenomena during those
alterations.
These results—altogether apart from the Blavatsky-Coulomb correspon
dence—would prevent the whole mass of testimony to Shrine-marvels from
having any scientific value ; taken along with this correspondence, they can,
I think, leave no doubt in the mind of any impartial reader as to the mode
of production of these marvels.
Yet Mrs. Besant has thought proper to represent me in her article
as both depending on the evidence of the Coulombs, and as producing
no other evidence. I do not attribute any intentional insincerity
to Mrs. Besant. I regard this and other examples of her misrepre
sentation of my Report as springing from a strong emotional bias
in the light of which her intellectual faculty at least has become
obscured. The fact is that Mrs. Besant is wofully ignorant of the whole
matter that concerns the trick structures at Adyar. She seems to
have adopted without any question the crude and hasty view which
the Theosophists at Adyar first put forward in explanation of the
origin of those structures, and to have paid no attention whatever
to the evidence that has been produced against that view. Her
method of meeting the evidence offered in my Report on this point
seems to be to take no notice of it, although it is the evidence of
Theosophic witnesses anxious to defend Madame Blavatsky. And she
quotes inaccurate statements about examinations of the Shrine from
a pamphlet disowned by the Council of the Theosophical Society and
expressly declared to be untrustworthy by tlie compiler of the pamphlet,.
Dr. Hcurtmann himself.
L
146 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
We now come to what Mrs. Besant has to say concerning the
genuineness of the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters. She wishes her reader
to think lightly of the opinion of Messrs. Netherclift and Sims, chiefly
because these gentlemen formed a certain opinion in the first instance
concerning some other writing and then, when additional documents
were submitted to them, formed a different opinion. I shall have
more to say on this point presently. Meanwhile the fact remains that
in the opinion of the best experts obtainable, the Blavatsky-Coulomb
documents were undoubtedly written by Madame Blavatsky, and I
know of no expert in handwriting who has examined the letters who
has expressed any different opinion.
I notice that Mrs. Besant has made no allusion to the circumstan
tial evidence adduced in my Report which corroborates the judgment
of the experts in handwriting. She uses an argument, however, which
may appear to have some validity to those persons who are unac
quainted with the old relations between Madame Blavatsky and
Madame Coulomb. It is absurd to suppose, she says, that Madame
Blavatsky " would be such a fool as to place herself at the mercy of a
woman of the type of Madame Coulomb." But the case is very
different when we remember that as far back as 1872, at Cairo,
Madame Blavatsky had been associated with Madame Coulomb
in producing bogus "spiritistic" phenomena, and that the latter
already was possessed of some important " secrets " of Madame Blavat-
sky's life. Madame Blavatsky, before the incriminating letters in
question were written, was already in Madame Coulomb's power.
{Report, pp. 314-5.) Mrs. Besant quotes Mr. Hume as having put
this view well, viz., that Madame Blavatsky was " far too shrewd a
woman to have ever written to any one anything that could convict
her of fraud." She does not, however, refer to the fact that Mr.
Hume changed his opinion. I quote what I said on this point in my
Report (p. 274) :—
When the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters were first published, Mr. Hume
,expressed his opinion publicly that Madame Blavatsky was too clever to have
thus committed herself ; latterly, however, and partly in consequence of the
evidence I was able to lay before him, he came to the conviction that the
letters in question were actually written by Madame Blavatsky. Further,
he had never placed the slightest credence in the Shrine-phenomena, which
he had always supposed to be fraudulent.
Mrs. Besant says : " It has always been a mystery to me how any
one could read these letters, and believe them to have been written
by Madame Blavatsky." This I suppose is largely a matter of personal
opinion. To myself the mystery is how Mrs. Besant can believe them
to have been written by anybody else. And that Madame Blavatsky
herself saw the difficulty in foisting them on any other person is
The Defence of the Theosophists. 147
sufficiently indicated by the fact that she admitted nearly all the non-
incriminating portions of the letters to be in substance genuine.
The next main point that Mrs. Besant deals with is the authorship
of the Koot Hoomi documents, which I have given reasons for thinking
were written chiefly by Madame Blavatsky, in some cases by Damodar.
Mrs. Besant's belief that many Mahatma letters have been received
under circumstances which precluded their having been written by
Madame Blavatsky or a confederate, has obviously no more evidential
value than Dr. Hartmann's general statement, which she quotes, that he
received such letters at Headquarters when Madame Blavatsky was not
living there. The only specific cases to which Mrs. Besant refers are
mentioned, among others, in my Report (pp. 215, 248, etseq., 373-377).
Mrs. Besant seems to take it for granted that because Madame
Blavatsky did not know Sanscrit, Mahrathi, &c., the Mahatma letters
in those languages must be supernormal ; as if it were not superlatively
easy for Madame Blavatsky to obtain such letters through one of her
confederates. I have mentioned in my Report that Mahrathi was
Damodar's vernacular. It was much easier indeed for Madame
Blavatsky to provide a Mahatma letter in one of the Indian languages
than to either read or provide one in Hebrew or in Arabic. And we
find accordingly that when Mr. A. D. Ezekiel, Theosophist of Poona,
prepared a question in the Arabic language and in Hebrew characters,
and submitted it to the Mahatma, he received a reply that showed
complete ignorance of his question. His question concerned the
interpretation of a specific portion of the Kabbala, and not the slightest
reference was made to this in the reply which he received.
An analysis of the circumstances of the appearance of all the Koot
Hoomi writings of any importance that came before us previous to the
publication of my Report, showed that so far as time, place, &c.,
were concerned, they might have been written either by Madame
Blavatsky or Damodar. It was therefore desirable to ascertain what
grounds there were, as a question of handwriting, composition, Ac.,
for supposing that the K. H. documents were actually the work of
Madame Blavatsky and Damodar,—and primarily of course of Madame
Blavatsky. The question is considered in detail on pp. 276-311 of
my Report, and my conclusions were confirmed and strengthened by
the examination made by Mrs. Sidgwick (Report, pp. 378-380). Messrs.
Netherclift and Sims also reached the same conclusions eventually, but
thought differently on their first examination. Mrs. Besant makes
much of this change of opinion on the part of these experts, and
adduces on the other side the testimony of " Herr Ernst Schiitze, the
Court expert in caligraphy at Berlin." Now the circumstances of Herr
Ernst Schutze's judgment happen to be given by Mr. Sinnett in the
l 2
148 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
volume entitled Incidents in the Life of Madame Blavatsky (Appendix,
pp. 323-4). The documents submitted to Herr Schiitze for compari
son were a K. H. letter of September, 1884, and a Madame Blavatsky
letter received October, 1885. He replied that they were not by the same
hand. Later on, another K. H. letter, we are not informed of what
date, was sent to Herr Schiitze, and he was asked whether he would
" adhere to his opinion." He did so adhere. Now I venture to find
fault with the circumstances of this judgment, as described by
Mr. Sinnett. In the first place the writing supplied to the expert,
supplied, I presume, as the undoubted ordinary writing of Madame
Blavatsky, was written a year after the publication of the Blavatsky-
Coulomb letters in the Madras Christian College Magazine. Mr.
J. D. B. Gribble had also published a pamphlet at Madras in 1884
concerning the characteristics of the handwriting of these letters, and
had pointed out many of the peculiarities of Madame Blavatsky's
ordinary handwriting. Further, at the meetings of our Society, in
May and June, 1 885, I had myself described some of the peculiar for
mations of Madame Blavatsky's handwriting especially in connection
with the K. H. documents. One would suppose, even apart from these
circumstances, that a letter offered to an expert as a specimen of
Madame Blavatsky's undoubted ordinary handwriting with which to
compare some disputed document, should at least have been written
before the publication of the Blavatsky-Coulomb documents. Obviously
the standard of her undoubted writing must not be such a standard
as Madame Blavatsky herself would ex post facto provide. That she
wished myself to use such a standard plainly appears in my Report
(p. 281):-
Soon after my arrival at Adyar [in the latter part of December, 1884], I
asked for a specimen of Madame Blavatsky's undoubted handwriting,—for
the purpose of comparison with the disputed documents. Mr. Damodar
avoided giving me any before Madame Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott reached
headquarters, and after I had had some conversation with them on the
subject, Colonel Olcott said that Madame Blavatsky would write me a letter
at once, if I wished, which I could use as a test document. I replied that it
would be desirable for me to have some manuscript that was written before
the appearance of the Christian College Magazine in September, whereupon
Colonel Olcott said abruptly that he could take no action as to giving me any
handwriting of Madame Blavatsky's until their own Committee had met, and
that Madame Blavatsky was in the hands of the Theosophical Society.
Madame Blavatsky, finding that I would not use as my standard a
letter professedly written by her for that purpose, nevertheless
hoped, as I believe, that I might take as a standard some document of
hers ostensibly written for another purpose. She therefore wrote out
certain statements concerning Madame Coulomb's charges. These
writings, as I have shown in pp. 290-1 of my Report, show a sudden
The Defence of the Theosophists. 149
change as regards one of the most important characteristics of her ordin
ary writing of several years previous, besides other minor alterations,
and they would therefore have proved an untrustworthy standard.
The device, therefore, which we might suppose that a person charged
with forgery would adopt, if opportunity were given, was actually
adopted by Madame Blavatsky in my own case, and she may well have
resorted to a similar device in her letters generally.
Not only is this flaw manifest in the data submitted to Herr Schiitze.
The documents that caused Messrs. Netherclift and Sims to abandon
their first opinion concerning the authorship of the K. H. documents
were a series obtained from Mr. Sinnett, " eight specimens of the
K. H. writing, which represented, some of them at least, consecutive
periods of time, beginning with the earliest letter received by Mr.
Sinnett." Whether this was known to Mr. Gebhard or not when
he invited the judgment of the German expert on a K. H. letter of
September, 1884,and a Madame Blavatsky letter received October, 1885,
written a year after she knew that she was suspected of writing the
K. H. letters as well as the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters—I do not know.
One thing surely is very clear, viz., that the German expert was far
from having as complete a set of data as those finally submitted to
the English experts,—a very strange neglect, if anything more than
a mere contrary opinion was wanted. Were I now submitting the
case for judgment, I should provide the expert with letters written
by Madame Blavatsky some time previous to the appearance of the
first K. H. letter,—with letters written about that time, shortly after
wards, and after the public exposure. I should for comparison with
these submit the earliest K. H. documents, and later K. H. speci
mens in chronological series ; and then put the inquiry as to whether
these " might not perhaps be really by the same hand " as the undoubted
Madame Blavatsky letters.
I notice what Mrs. Besant has to say about the " fragmentary
script " which I quoted in my Report in connection with my remarks
as to the possible political significance of Madame Blavatsky's career.
She asserts that it is a " discarded scrap of a translation, by Madame
Blavatsky, of a Russian work, translated for and published in the
Pioneer, ordered and paid for by its editor, and to be read there by
anyone who cares to do so." I am aware that Madame Blavatsky said
something of this sort, and I gave her, in my Report, p. 317, the credit
of this explanation, which Mrs. Besant produces years later as though
it were a new or a well-established thing. In Mr. Sinnett's pamphlet,
The "Occult World Phenomena," tfec., Madame Blavatsky said that
it was " afragment ofan old translation I made for the Pioneer from
some Russian travels in Central Asia " (pp. 51-2) ; Mr. Sinnett speaks
150 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
of it as " evidently a discarded fragment " or " rejected page " from
that translation, or possibly a slip that might have happened to fall
" from some other Russian translations which Madame Blavatsky . . .
once made for the Indian Foreign Office." I only refer to this " script"
at all here because it seems to afford an illustration of Mrs. Besant's
method of examination of much of the evidence before her. Madame
Blavatsky says it is so, and it is so. From Mr. Sinnett's remarks (loc.
cit., pp. 10-11) it is clear that he is putting forward what appears to
him to be an adequate explanation for the existence of the " script."
But Mrs. Besant speaks as confidently as if she had in her hand the
copy of the Pioneer containing the passage. Let the reader not forget,
however, that the scrap is spoken of as discarded. It is pertinent,
therefore, to ask Mrs. Besant what evidence there is for her assertion
beyond the fact that Madame Blavatsky said and Mr. Sinnett thinks it.
I shall now consider very briefly the reply which Mr. Sinnett made
in his pamphlet entitled The " Occult World Phenomena " and the
Societyfor Psychical Research.
The first case dealt with (Report, pp. 256-7) hinges on the time at
Madame Blavatsky's disposal for surreptitiously opening a letter. In
his account in The Occult World Mr. Sinnett wrote that she had not
been away to her own room thirty seconds, that she had not been out
of his sight otherwise except for a minute or two in his wife's room,
and that she spoke for a few minutes in the adjoining room to his wife.
In his statement before the Committee he said : " She was out of my
sight but for an instant of time when she cried out, ' Oh, he has taken
it from me now.' I will undertake to say that she was not out of my
sight for ten seconds. Having uttered that exclamation, she returned
to the drawing-room, and we then proceeded together to my office at
the back of my house. I went on with what I was doing, and she
simply lay on the sofa in my full view." I said, " After this I cannot
feel certain that Madame Blavatsky may not have been absent in her
own room considerably more than 30 seconds, nor do I feel certain that
Madame Blavatsky may not have retired to some other room [connected,
say, with Mrs. Sinnett's room] during the interval of ' a few minutes '
which Mr. Sinnett assigns to her conversation with Mrs. Sinnett in the
adjoining room." Mr. Sinnett does not tell us how long after the
event his account in The Occult World was written, and in giving his
account to the Committee he had manifestly completely forgotten the
absence of Madame Blavatsky in his wife's room. Readers of my
accounts in the Proceedings of the lapses of memory to which human
testimony is liable will not think my conjecture unreasonable that
Madame Blavatsky may have had a longer time at her disposal than
Mr. Sinnett afterwards estimated. And Mr. Sinnett fails apparently
The Defence of the Theosophists. 151
to see that the important point of the incident turns on a question of
seconds.1
Where it is a question whether, for a task that might be
accomplished in 30 seconds, ten seconds elapsed or thirty, and when
the recorder in one account estimates thirty and in another ten, the
discrepancy is certainly noteworthy. I have not, however, dwelt upon
this point at any length in my Report, nor did I specially impeach
Mr. Sinnett's care in the rest of his narrative on account of this inci
dent. Yet Mr. Sinnett frequently bespeaks the sympathy of his readers
on the ground that I make him out as an inaccurate observer because
of this discrepancy of seconds (although, be it observed, the importance
of the incident turns upon how many seconds were at Madame
Blavatsky's disposal). He writes : " Mr. Hodgson actually goes on in
his Report to argue that I must be an inaccurate and untrustworthy
narrator because of this discrepancy of my evidence about the ten and
the thirty seconds" (p. 16). He speaks of my "contention" as "the
foundation of the major part of Mr. Hodgson's subsequent theorising
about my book" (p. 17); "that impeachment continues to underlie all the
groundless pretences which Mr. Hodgson makes throughout this Report
in regard to having shaken the value of my testimony " (p. 21) ; "it is
only by beginning with criticisms so absurd that it is difficult to
understand how he can have vanquished the sense of shame he must
have felt in first endeavouring to work with them—those concerning the
ten and thirty seconds—that he was able to inaugurate the system on
which he has striven to damage the credit of my story. That system
has been to level an undue reproach at me, and to keep referring
to me as a man who has incurred that reproach " (pp. 42-3). After
all this the reader will be surprised to learn that beyond my first
reference to the incident on p. 257 of my Report, I have made no
reference whatever to the discrepancy in question. Not only have I
made no specific reference to the discrepancy, but where in the course
of my criticisms I have made any general reference to Mr. Sinnett's
want of care, it is obvious from the context that I had other cases in
mind, and not this particular instance.
The next case is that of a fall of a letter in a room at Crow's Nest
Bungalow. I supposed that this letter came through one of the
cracks in the ceiling from a garret above, the only entrance to the
garret being a trapdoor in Madame Blavatsky's bedroom. There
were large interstices in the ceiling when I examined the place myself.
I said it was to be "inferred from Mr. Sinnett's accounts that he made
no examination whatever of the ceiling either from the room below or
1 The envelope which I described myself in my Report u having manipulated in
one minute I opened without any special appliances. I opened it shortly after it was
closed before the gum was dry.
152 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
from the garret above." To this Mr. Sinnett practically makes no
reply, though he still thinks that the phenomenon was genuine. " Mr.
Sinnett thinks that, and I think differently,"—to change the words of
Mr. Sinnett's remarks—but " there is no particle of evidence to
support Mr. Sinnett's belief, beyond the fact that Madame Blavatsky
suggested it."
The third case,—writing in a " sealed envelope,"—Mr. Sinnett,
when deposing before the Committee, regarded as " quite complete."
He now regards it as " relatively trivial," and makes no reply to my
statements about the ease of opening the envelope and abstracting
the contents. Mr. Sinnett implies much in other places about the
light which he could have thrown on the subjects mentioned in my
Report if he had only been consulted. This was one of the instances
where he was consulted—the result being to show at once that Mr.
Sinnett's account of the security of the letter-fastening was absurd,
and that there was no evidence at all for the genuineness of the
phenomenon (Report, pp. 258-9).
In the fourth case, the alleged instantaneous transportation of a
piece of plaster plaque, the only reply which Mr. Sinnett makes
depends on a misrepresentation of my explanations. He regards me
as supposing that the fragment found by him at Allahabad was a piece
broken off by itself by Madame Blavatsky, and he says that the
nature of the fracture forbids this supposition. If the reader will refer
to my Report (p. 260) he will see that I do not suppose this. I suppose
the mould to have been broken into several pieces, and that one of
those pieces was conveyed by ordinary means to Allahabad. I have
expressly avoided the supposition that Mr. Sinnett attributes to me.
Thus it appears that Mr. Sinnett makes no real reply to my statements
about this incident. Further, he makes no reply to my statements
about the alleged Mahatma letters connected therewith, and I refer
the reader specially to my detailed comments on this point in the foot
note on pp. 260-1 of my Report.
For Mr. Sinnett's remarks about the " raps " and " astral bells " I
simply refer to my Report, pp. 262-3.
Mr. Sinnett passes over my criticism of the incident of the " pink
note in the tree."
In dealing with the incidents of the Simla picnic, and taking
Colonel Olcott's account as distinguished from Mr. Sinnett's, I pointed
out that there was no special difficulty in supposing that the cup and
saucer and diploma had been prepared beforehand, and that the bottle
of water might also have been provided with the assistance of Babula.
Mr. Sinnett seems to think that after all that I have said in other places
about the unreliability of Colonel Olcott's testimony, it is rather
absurd for me in this case to take Colonel Olcott's account rather than
The Defence of the Tfieosophists. 153
his own. Now I cannot say positively that cceteris paribus I should
always prefer Colonel Olcott's account of an incident to Mr. Sinnett's,
but in the present case Colonel Olcott's account was written apparently
on the day after the event, and he had also noted various circumstances
in his diary. When Mr. Sinnett wrote his account does not appear.
Presumably, however, it was much later. But, aside from all this,
given two accounts by different persons who are both enthusiastic
followers of and believers in the " occult " phenomena of Madame
Blavatsky, it is obvious that we must not choose the account which
renders the phenomenon more difficult of explanation by ordinary
means. Further still, it is plain from even so much of Colonel Olcott's
account as Mr. Sinnett is now willing to admit as being " broadly
speaking right," that Mr. Sinnett omitted from his narrative certain
important facts about Madame Blavatsky's direction of the party. Yet
Mr. Sinnett not improbably had these facts in his mind when he itali
cised the word " exact " in The Occult World, p. 49 : " The exact spot
on which the ladies' jampans were deposited was chosen by myself in
concert with the gentleman referred to above as X ." There is there
fore still more reason for accepting Colonel Olcott's account in pre
ference to Mr. Sinnett's. And I remind the reader once more that of
the seven principals at the picnic, Mr. and Mrs. Sinnett and Colonel
Olcott were the only ones who came away believing. Judge M., Major
Henderson, and Mrs. R d looked upon the alleged phenomena as
fraudulent. The " cup and saucer " incident depended upon the
appearance of a seventh person who was supposed to have been unex
pected. The seventh person was Judge M. Did Mr. Sinnett ever ask
him whether Madame Blavatsky had not specially invited him to
come 1
Mr. Sinnett makes no reply whatever to my statements concerning
the " brooch " incident (Report, pp. 267-8), no reply whatever to my
statements concerning the cigarette phenomena (Report, pp. 268-9).
His reply to my statements concerning the " pillow incident " I am
content to leave for comparison with my explanation of it (Report,
p. 270), together with my comments on the incident of the "pink note in
the tree " (Report, pp. 263-5). I observe that Mr. Sinnett makes no
allusion to the corroboration of my view which is afforded by the Koot
Hoomi note incidents which formed part of the day's events.
The next case is the Jhelum telegram incident ; concerning which
Mr. Sinnett remarks : " Mr. Hodgson has not much to say that is very
crushing about the Jhelum incident itself, except to suggest that Madame
Blavatsky may have read my letter and ' have telegraphed the right reply
to a confederate ' at Jhelum." If the reader will refer to my Report,
pp. 272-273, he will see that what I suggest as the probable explana
tion, in the paragraph beginning on p. 272 and ending on p. 273, is
154 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
very different, and that Mr. Sinnett makes no reply whatever to the
statements there made.
In dealing with the last incident under discussion, that of the
" profile portrait," Mr. Sinnett takes occasion to " conjecture " (possibly
for the purpose of suggesting to his readers that my " conjectures "
may be as worthless as this one of his) that the " blue shading drawings "
shown to me as specimens of Madame Blavatsky's handiwork, were
shown to me "as occult precipitations of hers, though he now calmly
suppresses this." To this I have simply to say that they were shown
to me as specimens of her ordinary handiwork, and not as " occult pre
cipitations." Whether they have ever been shown to other persons
as " occult precipitations " I do not know. I spoke of the " exiguity
of Mr. Sinnett's account " of the production of the profile portrait
to which he refers. Mr. Sinnett apparently takes offence at the word
" exiguity ", as though it were unjustly applied. He thinks that
there is " nothing to allege or urge against the story," and that " there
is no getting out of the conclusion that on this occasion an occult
phenomenon was wrought." Now it seemed to me so obvious that the
difficulty lay not in getting out of but in getting into such a conclusion,
that I did not consider the incident in detail. I will now do so.
Mr. Sinnett's account in his pamphlet (p. 38) is : " The paper was seen
to be blank before breakfast, left in a book on the table in sight of us
all while we had that meal, and found to bear a portrait when we
went to look at it immediately afterwards." The account I shall
consider is not this but that given much earlier,—though we are not
told how soon after the incident the account was written—in The
Occult World, pp. 137-8 :—
Now in aspiring to have a portrait of Koot Hoomi, of course I was wish
ing for a precipitated picture, and it would seem that just before a recent
visit that Madame Blavatsky paid to Allahabad, something must have been
said to her about a possibility that this wish of mine might be gratified.
For the day she came she asked me to give her a piece of thick white paper
and mark it. This she would leave in her scrap-book, and there was reason
to hope that a certain highly advanced chela, or pupil, of Koot Hoomi's,
not a full adept himself as yet, but far on the road to that condition, would
do what was necessary to produce the portrait.
Nothing happened that day nor that night. The scrap-book remained
lying on a table in the drawing-room, and was occasionally inspected. The
following morning it was looked into by my wife, and my sheet of paper was
found to be still blank. Still the scrap-book lay in full view on the drawing-
room table. At half-past eleven we went to breakfast ; the dining-room, as
is often the case in Indian bungalows, only being separated from the
drawing-room by an archway and curtains, which were drawn aside. While
we were at breakfast, Madame Blavatsky suddenly showed by the signs with
which all who know her are familiar, that one of her occult friends was near.
It was the chela to whom I have above referred. She got up, thinking she
The Defence of the Theosophists. 155
might be required to go to her room ; but the astral visitor, she said, waved
her back, and she returned to the table. After breakfast we looked into the
scrap-book, and on my marked sheet of paper, which had been seen blank
by my wife an hour or two before, was a precipitated profile portrait. The
face itself was left white, with only a few touches within the limits of the
space it occupied ; but the rest of the paper all round it was covered with
cloudy blue shading. Slight as the method was by which the result was
produced, the outline of the face was perfectly well-defined, and its expres
sion as vividly rendered as would have been possible with a finished picture.
The interval between Mrs. Sinnett's looking at the blank paper and
the discovery of the portrait is described vaguely as "an hour or two."
We may therefore assume that the interval may have been at least two
hours. Now Mr. Sinnett says nothing about any person's keeping a
continuous watch during that whole time over the scrap-book contain
ing the " blank piece of paper." It is a fair inference from his account
that such a continuous watch was not even attempted, much less suc
cessfully carried out. Referring to the day and night previous he
writes : " The scrap-book remained lying on a table in the drawing-
room, and was occasionally inspected." For all that appears in Mr.
Sinnett's account, Madame Blavatsky might have had ample oppor
tunity between the time of Mrs. Sinnett's inspection and the " discovery"
of the portrait to produce the drawing by ordinary means on the very
sheet of paper that Mrs. Sinnett previously saw blank,—not to speak
of the possibility of substituting another similarly marked sheet with
the drawing on it, or of re-substituting the originally marked sheet
(with drawing) for an imitation sheet temporarily taking the place of
the first in the scrap-book. The scrap-book, moreover, belonged to
Madame Blavatsky. I repeat, then, that Mr. Sinnett's account is
" exiguous." We need to be assured that the scrap-book was under
continuous observation by trustworthy persons during the whole time
that elapsed between Mrs. Sinnett's inspection of the blank paper and
the discovery of the portrait. As to the method of and the persons
concerned in such continuous observation, their positions, the position
of Madame Blavatsky, details of the examinations before and after of
the scrap-book and the blank paper, possibilities of imitation of mark
on paper, of substitution, &c.—all such considerations meet with no
mention in Mr. Sinnett's account.
Mr. Sinnett claims in his pamphlet (p. 42) to have shown that
" there is no force whatever in the objections which Mr. Hodgson
brings against any one of the long series of experiences related in my
book." To my objections to some of these experiences, Mr. Sinnett,
as we have seen, makes no reply whatever. Whether his remarks in
connection with the other experiences show that there is no force in
my objections to accepting them as "occult phenomena" may now be
left to the reader's determination. Mr. Sinnett's faith in Madame
156 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Blavatsky I do not have any expectation of disturbing. The question
is whether the alleged phenomena can be accounted for by ordinary
means, whether the possibilities of trickery have been excluded. Mr.
Sinnett himself declared (The Occult World, p. 35) that it was
" impossible to proceed by any other but scientific modes of investigation.
In any experiments I have tried I have always been careful to exclude, not
merely the probability, but the possibility of trickery : and where it has
been impossible to secure the proper conditions, I have not allowed the
results of the experiments to enter into the sum total of my conclusions."
What I have said in my Report (p. 273) I venture to repeat here :—
On the whole, then, I think I am justified in saying that the phenomena
relied upon by Mr. Sinnett in Thc Occult World can be accounted for much
more satisfactorily than can the performances of any ordinary professional
conjurer by the uninitiated observer, however acute ; that the additional
details which I have been enabled to furnish in connection with some of the
incidents Mr. Sinnett has recorded, clearly show that he has not been in the
habit of exercising due caution for the exclusion of trickery ; and that he
has not proceeded in accordance with those "scientific modes of investiga
tion " which he explicitly declares (Occult World, p. 35) he regarded as
necessary for the task he attempted.
I pass on to deal with certain statements made by Mr. Sinnett in
the Review of Reviews for June, 1891. He writes on p. 550, referring
to my Report : " Bit by bit the famous Report has been torn to pieces
by competent critics, till hardly a rag of it remains ; " and on p. 556 :
" The few people who had been intimate with Madame Blavatsky all
through the period of the transactions referred to, showed by degrees,
in various pamphlets and articles, how worthless Mr. Hodgson's
conclusions were, how fatally he had been hoodwinked by the enemies
of the Theosophical movement at Madras, and how narrow-minded and
unjust his methods of inquiry had been."
The best way to meet this statement is to consider it with reference
to the summary of my Report.1
In the first place, a large number of letters produced by M. and Madame
Coulomb, formerly Librarian and Assistant Corresponding Secretary respec
tively of the Theosophical Society, were, in the opinion of the best experts in
handwriting, written by Madame Blavatsky. These letters, which extend
over the years 1880-1883 inclusive, and some of which were published in the
Madras Christian, College Magazine for September, 1884, prove that Madame
Blavatsky has been engaged in the production of a varied and long-continued
series of fraudulent phenomena, in which she has been assisted by the
Coulombs. The circumstantial evidence which I was able to obtain concern-
1 The reader's attention may also be directed again to the conspicuous cases of
fraud mentioned by our Committee, which did not come within the limits of my own
investigations in India. I refer to the " Kiddle incident," and the attempt to deceive
Mr. C. C. Massey by a bogus marveL See Proceedings, VoL III., pp. 206-7, 397-400.
The Defence of the Theosophists. 157
ing the incidents referred to in these letters, corroborates the judgment of
the experts in handwriting.
In the second place, apart altogether from either these letters or the
statements of the Coulombs, who themselves allege that they were con
federates of Madame Blavatsky, it appears from my own inquiries concerning
the existence and the powers of the supposed Adepts or Mdhatmaa, and the
marvellous phenomena alleged to have occurred in connection with the
Theosophical Society,
1. That the primary witnesses to the existence of a Brotherhood with
occult powers,—viz., Madame Blavatsky, Mr. Damodar K.
Mavalankar, Mr. Bhavani Shankar, and Mr. Babajee D. Nath,—
have in other matters deliberately made statements which they
must have known to be false, and that therefore their assertions
cannot establish the existence of the Brotherhood in question.
2. That the comparison of handwritings further tends to show that
Koot Hoomi Lai Sing and Mahatma Morya are fictitious person
ages, and that most of the documents purporting to have emanated
from these "personages," and especially from "K. H." (Koot
Hoomi Lai Sing), are in the disguised handwriting of Madame
Blavatsky herself, who originated the style of the K. H. hand
writing ; and that some of the K. H. writing is the handiwork of
Mr. Damodar in imitation of the writing developed by Madame
Blavatsky.
3. That in no single phenomenon which came within the scope of my
investigation in India, was the evidence such as would entitle it
to be regarded as genuine, the witnesses for the most part being
exceedingly inaccurate in observation or memory, and having
neglected to exercise due care for the exclusion of fraud ; while
in the case of some of the witnesses there has been much
conscious exaggeration and culpable misstatement.
4. That not only was the evidence insufficient to establish the
genuineness of the alleged marvels, but that evidence furnished
partly by my own inspection, and partly by a large number of
witnesses, most of them Theosophists, concerning the structure,
position, and environment of the Shrine, concerning "Mahatma"
communications received independently of the Shrine, and
concerning various other incidents, including many of the
phenomena mentioned in The Occult World, besides the numerous
additional suspicious circumstances which I have noted in the
course of dealing in detail with the cases considered, renders
the conclusion unavoidable that the phenomena in question were
actually due to fraudulent arrangement.
As regards the first main point I am not aware that any testimony
worth consideration has been brought forward to show that the
Blavateky-Coulomb documents were not written by Madame Blavatsky,
(or that they were written by the Coulombs or by Black Magicians), or
to offset the circumstantial evidence which I adduced in confirmation
of the opinion of experts in handwriting.
158 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
As regards the next series of points, I am not aware of any attempt
to prove
(1) that the statements of Madame Blavatsky, Damodar, Bhavani
Shankar, and Babajee are to be regarded as trustworthy ;
(3) that the evidence for any of the phenomena which I
investigated in India is such as would entitle it to be
regarded as genuine (unless Mr. Sinnett's pamphlet is
regarded as an attempt to prove the genuineness of some of
the experiences related in The Occult World. See below).
Attempts have been made to deal with (2) and partially with (4).
(2) is met by pointing to the fallibility of experts and to the
opinion of Herr Schiitze. I have already shown that the
opinion of Herr Schiitze was founded upon inadequate data,
and I may now add that, so far as I am aware, no attempt
has been made to show how the various similarities between
Madame Blavatsky's writing and the series of K. H.
documents—together with other related points which I have
enumerated—can be accounted for on any other supposition
than that Madame Blavatsky's hand wrote them.
With reference to the K. H. writings ascribed to the handiwork of
Madame Blavatsky there are two points to be observed :—,
(a) That they were produced under circumstances which did not
preclude Madame Blavatsky's actually having written them ;
(b) that the similarities which I have pointed out between those
K. H. writings and Madame Blavatsky's ordinary writing,
and the gradual elimination of Blavatskian forms in the
course of development of the K. H. writings, and the changes
in Madame Blavatsky's ordinary writing, afford abundant
proof that Madame Blavatsky actually did write them.
No attempt has been made to deal with either of these points in
detail. Similar statements apply to the K. H. writings attributed
to Damodar.
Concerning (4) Mr. Sinnett has offered a reply (considered
above, pp. 150-6) to my examination of his accounts of phenomena
mentioned in The Occult World, and he quotes old testimony concern
ing the Shrine which throws no new light whatever on the subject,
and nearly all of which is given in my own Report, together with
much more of a similar character, and from superior witnesses. I am
not aware that any attempt has been made to deal with the other
incidents which come under the head of (4), such as Damodar's alleged
" astral " journeys, the alleged appearances of Mahatmas, either in their
ordinary or in their " astral " bodies, Mr. Hume's evidence, numerous
alleged precipitated writings, including Mr. G.'s letter and Professor
Smith's letter, and other instances.
The Defence of the Theosophists. 159
So far, then, as I am aware, much the larger part of my Report has
not been even touched by any person, while such attempts at replies as
have been made, both by their ignorance of the actual circumstances
and by the temper of mind displayed in the language used by the
writers, strengthen my previously expressed opinion that " not only
was the evidence insufficient to establish the genuineness of the alleged
marvels," but that the evidence obtained in many of the cases ren
dered " the conclusion unavoidable that the phenomena in question
were actually due to fraudulent arrangement."
In a final word I must remind my readers that I have been dealing
in this paper, as I have dealt throughout, with the phenomena alleged
by Madame Blavatsky in support of the tenets which she preached,
and not with those tenets themselves. Of those streams of super
human knowledge I will only say that I prefer to tap them at least
one stage nearer to their fountain-heads.1 I lay claim to no vast
erudition. But the sources which were good enough for Madame
Blavatsky are good enough for me ; and so long as Bonn's Classical
Library and Triibner's Oriental Library are within reach of a modest
purse I shall prefer to draw on those useful repertories for my ideas of
Platonic and Buddhistic thought ;—even though I should thus be
obliged to receive those ideas in a bald, old-fashioned shape ;—unspiced
with fraudulent marvels, and uncorroborated by the forged corre
spondence of fictitious Teachers of Truth.
1 Mr. W. E. Coleman, of San Francisco, CaL, has pointed out voluminous
plagiarisms and contradictions in Madame Blavatsky's writings. I may refer especi
ally to his articles in the Religio-Philoiopkical Journal(Chicago, IlL),for August 10th-
September 7th, 1889 ; in The Golden Way (San Francisco) for April-October, 1891 ;
and in The Carrier Dove (San Francisco) for March, 1891-February, 1893 (and suc
ceeding numbers to be published).
160 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
in.
MIND-CURE, FAITH-CURE, AND THE MIRACLES OF
LOURDES. 1
By A. T. Myers, M.D., F.R.C.P., and F. 'W. H. Myers.
Nunc, dea, nunc auccurre mihi ; nam posse mederi
Picta docet templis multa tabella tuis.
—Tibullut.
The present paper is an attempt,—avowedly of an imperfect and
provisional kind,—to answer certain questions which have been fre
quently and reasonably proposed to various writers in these Proceedings.
" Your Society," it has been said to us in effect by various American
correspondents, "professes its readiness to discuss all such psychical
phenomena as are supported by first-hand modern evidence, although
they may lie outside the pale of recognised science. You talked much
of hypnotism, even while hypnotism was still scouted and ignored.
But you yourselves persistently ignore an experimental movement of
an analogous kind which claims thousands of adherents, and hundreds
of inexplicable cures of disease. This movement takes two forms.
' Among the works consulted for the purpose of this paper we may cite the following.
I.—On Wind-cure and Faith-cure.
Buckley, J. M. Faith-healing, Christian Science and Kindred Phenomena.
London. 1892.
Carter, R. Kelso. Faith-cure. Century. March, 1887.
Charcot. J. M. The Faith-cure. New Review, January, 1803.
Corning, J. L. The Limitations of the Influence of the Mind on the Body. New
York Medical Journal, 1889.
Eddy, Mary B. CI. Science and Health. Sixtieth edition, revised, 1891.
Evans, W. F. The Mental Cure, 1869. Mental Medicine, 1872. Divine Law of
Cure. 1884.
Finlav, Mary. The Mind-cure. New Fori- Medical Record, November 5th,
1887.
Lord. Frances. Christian Science and Healing. London, 1888.
Mornelli. L' Influenza del Morale sul Fisico. RiviHa Sper. di Frtniatria, 1886.
A. T. Schofield, M.D. Faith-healing. London, 1892.
II.—The Miracles ofLourdti.
Annales de Lourdes, Vols. XXIII., XXIV, XXV.
Boissarie, Dr. Lourdes, 1891.
Buchanan, Professor George, in Lancet, June 20th, 1885.
Clarke, Richard F, S. J. Lourdes and its Miracles. London, 1888.
Lasserre, Henri. Les Episodes Miracnleux de Lourdes, 1883.
Mackey, E. Miracles and Modern Science. Reprinted from Dublin Review,
October, 1880.
We shall be glad to hear of other works on these subjects. Many pamphlets on
Mind-cure, 4c., known to us by their titles, are not procurable in England.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdea. 161
Mind-cure 1 denies that matter exists, or that evil exists, and heals the
patient by inspiring him with the conviction that he is a pure spirit,
unassailable by disease or pain. The Faith-cure teaches that pain and
disease, although really existing, can be dispelled by an act of faith in
the Divine power. Established science meets this movement with
precisely that ' contempt prior to examination ' which your Society has
in so many similar instances replaced by an examination which has
not led to contempt."
A second appeal of similar tenor reaches us from a quite different
quarter. A distinguished English Catholic, Father Clarke, S.J., whose
advocacy of the Lourdes miracles2 is well known, calls our attention to
the evidence for these extraordinary cures, and assures us of the welcome
which any serious inquirer will find at Lourdes itself. This appeal also
commands our attention. Unable at the present moment to find a com
petent physician disposed to give the time necessary for adequate
inquiry on the spot, we feel bound at least to place before our readers
some preliminary statement which may interest others in the problem
of this great pilgrimage ;—unrivalled as it is in modern days, and
supported by many volumes of evidence as to sudden cures, some of
which are stated to transcend all human possibility.
The competence of the present writers to pronounce a valid opinion
on either of these main problems is greatly impaired by the fact that
we have not been able to study on the spot and at first hand either the
American mind-healing or the cures which take place at Lourdes. On
the other hand, we both of us bring to the task one obvious pre-requisite
of any fruitful discussion ;—namely, a considerable familiarity with
hypnotic therapeutics, and with other forms of self-suggestion. One
of us possesses the equally indispensable qualification of conversance,
during a good many years, with the diagnosis and registration of disease
and cure as practised in modern hospitals of repute. The special qualifi
cation (if such it can be called) of the other writer lies in the fact that,
having already avowed his belief in the reality of some manifestations
of discarnate souls, he is one of the very few non-Catholics who cannot
be challenged in limine by believers in manifestations of the Virgin
Mary at Lourdes as entering upon the inquiry with a mind already
fixed in negation.
In conformity with the usual rule in these Proceedings, the main
1 We have adopted the more reasonable name for this system, and advise its
adherents to drop the title of "Christian Science," which has naturally incurred both
Christian and scientific disapproval.
a The word " miracle " is not of our choosing-, and seems to be used at present in a
somewhat arbitrary way. It is not commonly applied to supernormal phenomena
believed to occur in the presence of "mediums," or in an apparently spontaneous
fashion ; butonly to such phenomena when regarded as supportingsome religiouscreed.
162 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
part of our task will consist in examining, not the theories which are
proposed to us, but the actual first-hand evidence offered in their
support. But since we have to deal with several discrepant theories,
each of them supported by alleged facts of the same general kind, we
must needs consider first of all to what extent we can treat these
various theories and facts all together ;—what is their respective posi
tion in some more general survey of human beliefs in the matter of
disease and cure.
Disease is a matter first for diagnosis, then for therapeutic. "We
have first to find out what is wrong, and then to find out how to set it
right. Now diagnosis may be objective or subjective, and therapeutic
may be physiological or psychical. In primitive times these aspects
were confused vaguely together. Disease was diagnosed partly by
objective symptoms,—as when a white nose indicated frost-bite ;—but
mainly by subjective notions,—as when the patient said that he felt-
something inside him, and the medicine-man told him it was a devil.
So also therapeutic was always partly physiological ;—since the most
superstitious Samoyede would rub his neighbour's frost-bitten nose with
snow in preference to uttering incantations. But it was mainly
psychical, consisting of such charms, ceremonies, invocations, as tradi
tion assigned for the cure of a disease which tradition had already
diagnosed after its own fashion.
Now the aim of Science, from Hippocrates onwards, has been to
make diagnosis as far as possible objective, and therapeutic as far as
possible physiological. In examining a patient in a modern hospital,
we rely much on observable and measurable facts ; less on the patient's
own statements of what he feels ; least of all on his theories as to how
he came to feel it. In doctoring him, we rely much on definite opera
tions and on those few drugs part of whose action on the human
organism we can in some sense prove and show ; little on the patient's
own prayers for recovery ;—least of all, perhaps, on the encouraging
words which, in common humanity, we ourselves throw in.
But this objective mode of regarding disease and cure, however
dominant at Guy's or St. Bartholomew's, has not yet spread itself over
the mass of mankind. Diagnosis continues to be largely subjective ;—
the patient deeming himself a better judge of what is the matter with
him than anyone else can be, and the physician mistaking functional
for organic maladies, and hysterical disability for anatomical lesion.
And the whole practice of therapeutic continues to show traces of
pre-scientific beliefs ;— ideas which assume new forms in each genera
tion, but which carry us back to each in turn of the stages of thought
which we associate with the slow development of civilised man.
1. Felichism, or the primitive belief that certain objects, inanimate
.and inert, could cure disease by application to the body, shows itself,
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 163
slightly disguised, in such phenomena as the wide sale of Harness'
Electropathic Belts. The practical inertness of these appliances has
now been proved in a court of law ; nor was any valid evidence ever
offered for their alleged power. Assertion was enough ;—assertion
adapted to that belief in the mysterious potency of electricity which is
the modern counterpart of ancient beliefs in the mysterious potency of
talisman or totem. Yet how many sufferers have traced their cures to
what is,—to use gentle terms,—a purely commercial product !
2. Polytheism. The transition from fetichistic to polytheistic
conceptions of cure is, of course, a gradual one. It may be said to
begin when curative properties are ascribed to objects not arbitrarily,
nor on account of the look of the objects themselves, but on account
of their having been blessed or handled by some divine or semi-divine
personage, or having formed part of his body or surroundings during
some incarnation. Thus Lourdes water, bottled and exported, is still
held to possess curative virtue on account of the Virgin's original
blessing bestowed upon the Lourdes spring. But generally the
influence of the divine or divinised being is more directly exercised, as
in oracles, dreams, invisible touches, or actual theophanies, or appear
ances of the gods to the adoring patient. It will be seen as we proceed
how amply the tradition of Lourdes has incorporated these ancient aids
to faith.
3. Monotheism. Theological distinctions between polytheism and
monotheism lie, of course, outside our present purpose. Practices
originally polytheistic may continue (as in fact at Lourdes) under a
religion which looks up to one Supreme God. Our point here is that
when subordinate divinities, saints, or spirits are wholly excluded,
prayer may still be regarded as potent to effect cures ; and signs of
answer to prayer may still be sought. Here come in many Protestant
forms of belief (the Peculiar People, ifec.) which the modern Faith-
healing does but present in a concentrated form.
4. Metaphysics. Once more, when there is no longer a belief in a
personal Deity or in a direct answer to prayer, there may still be ways
of regarding the Universe which seem to confer upon man some mode
of issue from bodily pain. Oriental ideas of the unreality of matter
(Maya) ; Stoical ideas of the Sage's command over external circum
stances ; mystical ideas of the painless ecstacy into which the purified
spirit can enter at will ;—all these conceptions have the advantage of
being independent of dogmatic systems ; with the accompanying
disadvantage of being difficult for ordinary minds to grasp. Mind-
healing is a modern name for this ancient and lofty protest against the
tyranny of the flesh.
We have roughly arranged these forms of psycho-therapeutic in
the order of their historical evolution in the mind of man. But it
M 2
164 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
does not follow that all these notions together, or any one of them,
must necessarily be the mere figment of the uncivilised brain. On the
contrary, it is evident, it is certain, that there is truth in them some
where. Cures are and always have been effected by other than
demonstrably physiological means. It is the business of science not to
ignore such cures, but to discover how they are in fact obtained.
And here, broadly speaking, there are two alternative possibilities.
Either all these quasi-psychical cures can be referred to physiological
means which have escaped detection, or they cannot be so referred, and
there is a psychological basis which must be inquired into in other ways.
The former of these alternatives is what science should naturally desire.
Just as endemic maladies once ascribed to the wrath of heaven are now
discerned to be due to microbes, so also we might conceivably discover
that the cures ascribed, say, to the touch of saintly personages were due,
not to their saintliness or their dogmatic views, but to some physical
effluence communicable from one organism to another. If this were so
it would be a physiological effect, and the purely physiological explana
tion of psychological marvels would have made an enormous stride. It
is strange to remember that this thesis was actually advanced by
Mesmer, whose system of emanations from living organisms, metals,
magnets, crystals, was thus an early attempt at extending physiological
and physical laws over a region till then abandoned to miracle. His
theories, however, were neither proposed nor received in a scientific
spirit ; and it was easy to show that many of the phenomena could not
plausibly be explained by such effluences as he assumed to be acting.
Different portions of his general theory (metallaesthesia, influence of
magnets, passes, &c.,) are now believed, in altered forms, by different
schools of thought ; but with these modes of sensitivity we have at
present no concern. So far as they exist, they are physiological ; and
our present object is to disengage the psychological element in thera
peutic, with the view of deciding whether any of the modern theories
set before us for discussion has a predominant or specific value of its
own.
We may, then, take it as admitted that the first of the two alter
native possibilities of which we spoke above,—the possibility of explain
ing the whole of psycho-therapeutics by purely physiological means,—
is not yet an accomplished fact. Where Mesmer's loose generalities
failed, the less grotesque but not more demonstrable hypotheses of
modern physiologists have failed also. 'We need not here attempt to
prove this in detail. It is enough to say that the now accepted formula
for all these quasi-psychical cures, as we have termed them, is simply
the word suggestion. Now if, as is now commonly held, we have not
here to do with any real effluence proceeding from one organism to
another, this suggestion from others, being nothing more than verbal, is
I Mill
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 165
virtually resolved into self-suggestion ; and in fact we see that self-sug
gestion—itself no more than a formula—is gradually supplanting all
other formulae in psycho-therapeutics. That is to say, the second of the
two alternative possibilities at present holds the field. We are forced
to recognise in these cures a true psychological problem. There is action,
as we say, " of the mind upon the body," which may be exerted in
many modes, and from many causes, all equally beyond our ken.
This, then, is in one sense a favourable moment for the supporters,
whether of mind-cure or miracle, to press their claim. They find the
medical world,—especially on the Continent,—prepared carefully to
consider well-attested accounts of cures such as in earlier generations
would have been contemptuously dismissed without inquiry. But, on
the other hand, those who wish to prove some specific and peculiar
efficacy in any one mode of psycho-therapeutics must be prepared to
show that its effects,—its clearly traceable and well-attested effects,—go
beyond any recorded effects of self-suggestion ;—that the cures cannot
be paralleled by cures occurring without metaphysical meditations, or
prayers, or the intervention of the Virgin Mary.
We shall have, in fact, to deal with alleged miracles of healing in
the same way as we have already dealt in these Proceedings with the
alleged miracles of a physical or " telekinetic " type. Those
" mediumistic " marvels, evidentially considered, have fallen naturally
into three classes. A first and largest class we have rejected in limine
for lack of first-hand, contemporaneous, exact attestation. A second
large class we have discussed minutely, and have shown that they could
be paralleled by phenomena due to ordinary causes (including fraud),—
or at least that they could be so nearly thus paralleled that the margin
of difference was not greater than ordinary human inaccuracy or
prepossession might easily cover. A third small class are not obviously
liable to these fatal objections. Some of Mr. Crookes', Lord Crawford's,
Lord Dunraven's observations are very well attested, and have not
yet been plausibly paralleled by any familiar phenomena, or explained
by any known laws. These experiences still stand too much alone to
command general scientific assent. But should similar phenomena be
more widely observed in the future, the existence of these records
will strongly confirm the fresh observations. Meanwhile we must, of
course, be on the look out for any hitherto undetected explanation
which may bring these marvels into line with the rest ^of our
knowledge.
Cases which would fall within the first two of these classes we
shall doubtless find in the collection of evidence as to supernormal
healings which we have now to examine,—as in all collections of
miscellaneous evidence to extraordinary facts. The important question
is whether any, and, if so, what proportion of cases will survive this
166 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
sifting process and appear in our third class, as marvels as yet
unparalleled and unexplained, and which, if sufficiently repeated, may
compel our assent to their specific supernormal or miraculous claims.
First, then, let us consider what is the kind of medical evidence,
which the reports submitted to us ought to possess, and some fragment
of which they must needs possess, if they are to claim any sort of con
sideration.
A good history of any medical case should consist of first-hand
detailed, expert evidence, supported by objective, and as far as possible
by automatic records. Let us consider the terms of this definition in
order.
First-hand.—Strictly speaking, the evidence should come at first
hand both from the physician and from the patient. In disputed cases
(as where the physician is charged with incompetence) this double
testimony may be essential. But in cases where (as in those which we
have here to consider) the patient agrees with the physician, and the
several physicians (if there be several) agree among themselves, we may
accept the physician's report of the patient's statement, which the
physician, of course, is bound to record as carefully as the objective
features of the case.
Detailed.—The physician when writing his account should endea
vour to supply expert readers with the materials for forming a judgment
of their own. Thus he is bound to give us not only a description of
the case as he sees it, but also a history in which the patient's own
statements are confirmed or otherwise by such other testimony as can be
procured. In many cases the history, including heredity and early
environment, is the most instructive part of the whole record.
Expert.—This is plainly a question of degree. But we must insist
on having a physician's account ; since experience, not only in hospitals
but in private practice, has abundantly shown how defective and un
trustworthy an account of disease may be given by a layman,—himself
perhaps more intelligent than his physician, but unfamiliar with those
detailed and elaborate rules which enable even the dullest inheritor of
the great mass of clinical science and tradition to describe the complex,
confused phenomena of bodily disease in such a way that other experts
shall understand him. Be it noted, however, that the great goddess
Hysteria can sometimes deceive ^Ssculapius, and that in such a contest
of wits the expertry is not always on the side of the profession.
Supported by objective records.—All things in this world are
fallible, but men are more fallible than thermometers. The patient's
curve of temperature is often more instructive than anything which
cither he or his doctor can tell us. In all scientific observation,
indeed, it is an object to have as many facts as possible recorded by
instruments which need only to be read off, or stamped upon impersonal
.1
Wind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 167
transcripts which can be studied at leisure. And the progress of
medicine has consisted largely in the accumulation of registers of this
type ;—numerical records of pulse, respiration, temperature ; localised
records of results of auscultation and percussion, of muscular strength
and electrical condition ; chemical analysis of excreta ; micro-photo
graphs of bacterial or cellular contents of sputa ; measured results of
examination in the waking state and also under anaesthetics, so as to
eliminate conscious or unconscious muscular contraction.
We enumerate forms of evidence every one of which would have
been of important service in many of the cases with which we have to
deal. To what extent they have been actually offered to our scrutiny we
shall see as we proceed. Only let our readers at once understand
that if no definite evidence whatever of these kinds be supplied, and if
we are also ignorant as to the degree of professional skill and knowledge
possessed by the reporting physician, our own judgement on the case
can hardly go beyond conjecture.
Judging by the antecedent history of the various modes of
psychical healing now proposed to us,—by their position in the scheme
of psycho-therapeutics set forth above,—it is for mind-healing that
we should at first sight be disposed to predict the most lasting success.
For here (as already pointed out) we have the most abstract form of
self-suggestion,—the form least involved with dogma liable to attack
or disproof. We are all agreed that, whatever sense we attach to
matter and mind, what we call mind does in some way affect what we
call matter, and there is nothing absurd in trying to make our mind
affect the matter of our own bodies as strongly as it can.
Nothing absurd, we say, in this effort itself. We do not say that
some of its preachers have not done their best to make it so. The
sixtieth edition of Science and Health, with Key to the Scriptures,
by Mary Baker G. Eddy, President of Massachusetts Metaphysical
College, lies before us. It begins with the following words : " In the
year 1866 I discovered the Science of Metaphysical Healing, and
named it Christian Science. God had been graciously fitting me,
during many years, for the reception of a final revelation of the
absolute Principle of ' Scientific Mind-healing.' " We did not close the
book after this passage, and were rewarded by finding (p. 441) a
demonstration,—whose naivete' is only one step from the sublime,
—of the essential necessity of our somewhat toilsome perusal : " A
Christian Scientist requires my work on Science and Health for his
text book, and so do all his students and patients. Why ? First :
Because it is the voice of Truth to this age, and contains the whole
of Christian Science, or the science of healing through Mind. Second : "
—but the first reason really seems enough by itself.
Now, a style of this sort in a popular manual by no means proves
168 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
that self-suggestion may not be successfully practised by many readers
on the lines there laid down. On the contrary, these gentle indications
of personal merit, like the chariots and trumpets of the itinerant quack,
may actually predispose some minds to the belief desired. But it
shows us nevertheless that the buyers of the sixty editions are not
likely to have much sympathy with science of a more humble and
ordinary type, or to have taken the pains to record very accurately
the cures attained by such a " high priori road."
We know, however, by correspondence that much disinterested
zeal for others' welfare,—as well as much of eager personal hope,—is
being thrown into the effort to live up to the belief that Matter and
Evil are non-existent, and that Spirit and Good are all in all. We
regret the more that the actual evidence which we can obtain of the
good results reached by this ardent abstraction of thought should be
as yet so extremely scanty. There must be more behind ;—and we
earnestly hope that those who have it in their power to send us such
evidence may recognise that while we join with them in deprecating
the follies which have sprung up around their line of effort, our atti
tude towards that effort itself is one of cordial interest and sympathy.
An American friend in whom we have entire confidence has
favoured us with a paper, written in 1892, containing accounts, (which
do not pretend to medical accuracy), of a series of singular cures
experienced by himself and his immediate group.
M. 73.
Case I.—The writer says of himself that he "is occupied in active life,
has a strong aversion to modern ' Spiritualism,' possesses little medical know
ledge, and can only be considered an average observer deeply interested in
psychical phenomena. He has never undertaken cures by faith or expectant
attention save in his own case and that of his children." "In 1888," he
continues, " I almost totally lost the sight of my left eye through a con
traction of the iris, and was told by the celebrated specialist, Mr. Critchett,
that it could only be restored by an operation. This I declined, and for
four years was almost blind in that eye. Last week I suddenly found that
sight was restored to the extent which had been promised as the result of
an operation.1
Case II.—"In the year 1867, my daughter, then three years old, was
suffering from a painful illness, and in reply to my inquiries, the doctor twice
told me that he had given up every hope of saving her life. By a sudden
impulse I then fixed my mind in certain expectancy that she would recover,
and caused her to be wrapped in wet sheets. She at once rallied, and soon was
well. . . . About 1871 my son, a lad of fifteen, was very ill with uncon
trollable vomiting. The eminent physician who attended him thought it
necessary to pay six professional visits the day before his recovery, and
1 It would seem likely that this was due to an accidental and unexpected rupture
of a previous adhesion of the iris.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 169
seemed to have little hope of his life. In the evening the boy assured me that
at five o'clock in the morning he would be well. In the night he talked inco
herently of a favourite spring near by. At five in the morning the servant,
by his orders, brought the water from that spring. The boy heard with joy
the clicking of the ice which had been put into it, waked up fully, and drank
the whole of two glasses, was well at once and permanently.
Case III.—" One of my neighbours, after lying on her back fpr thirty
years, under the care of my own medical attendant, from unceasing nausea,
called in a new physician. He gave her some homoeopathic powders and
assured her that she would be sick no longer. She at once arose and resumed
her active out-door occupations after this long interval.
Case IV.—"About 1880, my daughter of fifteen had her foot run over
by a heavy sledge.
"In the course of the treatment by a specialist he one day put her
painful foot into a fresh splint and said she could not give up her crutches
for nine or ten months. Driving from the physician's house her mother
recollected to have heard of a woman physician who had cured many sprains,
and at once took her daughter to her office. A few passes were made over
it, and the girl danced around the floor perfectly well, nor was there any
relapse. To rest even slightly on that foot till that minute had been
unbearable agony. It was not till long afterwards that we became aware
that the doctor was a 'Spiritualist,' performing cures by the mediumship of
the stereotyped 'Big Indian.' Of the doctor's personal goodness and
sincerity, however, there could be no possible question. Soon afterwards,
a nephew, then about eleven years of age, now my guest, had strained his
ankle at play and continued to use it till at length he was laid up. The foot
became greatly swelled and so sensitive that any stepping on the floor
around him caused him increased agony of pain. Remembering the healing
of his cousin, his parents sent for the same woman physician. The lad was
greatly afraid of her, had not the least hope of being cured, and yet after
about ten minutes of manipulation the foot was absolutely free from pain
and he was walking round the room, the only remainder being a temporary
slight sense of weakness. There was no relapse.
Case V.—" My younger brother's wife had a disease of the circulation
called the 'milk leg,' by which she was laid up, unable to stand or to move
the leg for about a year. One day her physician had made a fresh special
examination and stated that there was no hope of her walking for another
year. Under a strong impulse of despair succeeded by one of hope, she said,
■ I will trust God and walk.' She rose up, dressed for the first time for
twelve months, and has in the six years since had no relapse. Her physician
said that he knew no precedent for or clue to her recovery.
Case VI.—"A well-known lady of very remarkable scientific attainments
tells me that she had from childhood a malposition of the ribs which distorted
her figure. A new physician who supposed himself, in addition to his large
practice of medicine, to be scripturally authorised at times to act on the
injunctions of the Epistle of James, one day prayed for her and anointed
her with oil. Soon after getting into her carriage, she heard a sound which
she supposed to be of the bones of her thorax moving, and soon found that
her ribs had taken their normal position. The change was so marked that
170 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
her dresses had to be modified to her greatly altered shape. I should hesitate
to tell this but for my long and intimate acquaintance with the lady, and a
close friendship, extending over twenty years, with the physician.
Case VII.—" My little daughter, at the age of seven, was suffering from
chronic indigestion which caused her much pain. She had been under the
treatment of a physician for several months and he gave no hopes of an early
recovery. The faith-healing doctorabove referred to happened at the time to
be visiting at my house, and it was suggested that he should anoint the child
and pray with her. The matter was explained to her and she said she did not
know whether she would like to have it done or not, and that she would think
about it. This she did for a day and then came in a great hurry, saying,
' I'm ready now, and he must do it at once.' The usual ceremony was gone
through and the child was at once cured. Afterwards, when I was proposing
to make a present in gratitude for cure, the child said earnestly, ' Papa,
you ought to give me half of that, for if it had not been for my faith the
doctor could not have cured me at all.'
" I have myself known of most successful faith-healing among the Mor
mons at Salt Lake, the result being freely acknowledged by the surrounding
'Gentiles.' One man who had lost a leg had heard so much of this that he
crossed the ocean and went to Brigham Young to get it renewed. The old
fox-like prophet, whom I knew, said, ' It would be easy for me to give you
another leg, but I must explain to you the consequences. If I give you
another leg you will have two legs till you die, which will be a great con
venience, but in the resurrection not only willthe leg you lost rise and be united
to your body, but also the one I now give you ; thus you will be encumbered
with three legs for ever. It is for you to decide whether you will take the
inconvenience of one leg now or three legs through eternity.' The man chose
the present inconvenience, but I hold that the prophet's ingenuity was in
excess of his power.1
Case VIII.—"My family physician habitually cures ulcers on ignorant
persons by laying his hand on thom and assuring the patient that they will be
healed. To the inquiry, ' Then why do not you do it for me t ' he candidly
replies, 'Oh, it don't work with educated people.'
" His son at twelve years of age broke both bones of his arm below the
elbow, which were set by an uncle. Two days afterwards the boy came to
his father and asked him to take the arm out of the splints. The father
explained the certain results, but the lad said, ' You taught me to ask Jesus
for what I wanted and to be sure that I would get it, and I have asked Him.'
The child was so persistent that at length the father directed the uncle to
remove the splints. The arm was lit for use ! The uncle nearly fainted
with astonishment. Told to me at the time, all the parties my trusted
friends, I am compelled to believe in the fact."
It must be added, however, that this case- was thoroughly investigated
1 This reminds us of a story of Elian's (Hilt. An., ix. 33), where the Epidaurian
priests of .Aesculapius have rashly cut off a woman's head, as a sanative operation, and
are unable to restore it. Fortunately in that case ^Eiculapius himself visited his
temple, and set right the little mistake.
2 The latter part of this account is as given by Dr. J. M. Buckley in his book
Faith-healing, Christian Science, and Kindred Phenomena, p. 54.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 171
by Dr. James Henry Lloyd, of the University of Pennsylvania, and in the-
Philadelphia Medical Record for March 27th, 1886, Dr. Lloyd published a
letter from the very child, who has become a physician.
''Dear Sir,—The case you cite, when robbed ofall its sensational surround
ings, is as follows. The child is a spoiled youngster who would have his own
way, and when he had a green-stick fracture of the forearm, after having had
it bandaged for several days, concluded he would much prefer going without
a splint. To please the spoiled child the splint was removed and the arm
carefully adjusted in a sling. As a matter of course the bone soon united, as
is customary in children, and being only partially broken, of course all the
sooner. This is the miracle. Some nurse, or crank, or religious enthusiast,
ignorant of matters physiological or histological, evidently started the story,
and unfortunately my name—for I am the party—is being circulated in cir
cles of faith-curites, and is given the sort of notoriety I do not crave.—Very
respectfully yours, Carl H. Rbbd."
"We have here, in fact," adds Dr. Buckley, "the testimony of the
patient himself that his cure was not at all extraordinary, and not depen
dent upon faith, but on the readiness of young bone to heal."
A second somewhat similar series of cures is sent to us by an
American lady of good standing, who has kindly made considerable,
though unsuccessful, efforts to get for us the sort of corroboration
desired. The change of physical condition in these cases seems
indubitable, but the rationale of these changes may be interpreted in
very various ways.
M. 74.
Case IX.—The first is a case in which the improvement in a malforma
tion of the foot and leg is accredited to " Christian Science." The story is
told by the patient himself, Mr. T. (name given), solicitor, of Los Angeles,
California. " I was born September, 1858. At my birth my right foot was
deformed, being turned upon one side, and in after life my right leg did not
grow equally with the left leg, so that at the time when Christian Science was
introduced to me (June, 1889) my right leg was about two inches shorter
than my left leg, so that I had to wear a thick cork sole upon my right shoe.
While in Washington in January, 1891, I made the acquaintance of Miss
Virginia Johnson, and also of Mr. and Mrs. Packard, all of whom were
pupils of Mrs. Eddy. When about to leave Washington and return West,
Miss Johnson encouraged me to go to Concord and call upon Mrs. Eddy.
I did not feel it would look well for me to do so wearing the unsightly shoe
which seemed to be necessary. On the Tuesday before my departure from
Washington my measure was taken by Simpson the tailor (of 9th and G
streets, N.Y.) for a pair of trousers, which were ready for me on Thursday
following. The right trousers leg was too short and it was found necessary to
let down the hem, so I did not got the trousers until Friday, when the hem
had been let down and the legs appeared to bo all right. I wore the trousers
Saturday. The next morning, Sunday, January 25th, while lying in bed
and wondering how I could manage to call upon Mrs. Eddy and make a
presentable appearance, I chanced to stretch out my legs and was surprised
to find that they were nearly the same length. I dressed, borrowed a cast
172 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
off shoe and wore it upon my right foot that day. The next morning I found
the right leg of my trousers again too short, and as soon as the stores were open
I bought a new pair of shoes and a pair of ready-made trousers, the same being
the first pair of trousers with the legs the same length I had worn since a boy.
These trousers fit me without any alterations, but I had to have a new leg put
in the other trousers before I could wear them. I have worn straight shoes of
the ordinary ready-made kind ever since, while before I required for my
right foot a special shoe which cost me lOdol. This demonstration occurred
without any treatment, and I have never received treatment for my deformity
except a short time by a so-called Christian Scientist . . . but I
discovered that the so-called treatment which was being given was of no
benefit, but rather otherwise, and I discontinued it. Miss Johnson informed
me that she simply put it out of her thought, and declared harmony the first
time she met me. I consider that to have been the most effective treatment
that could have been given. My foot does not yet appear to be straight,
and I have never made any effort to have it straightened. I had studied
Christian Science for a year and a-half before the above demonstration
came."
In evidence of the accuracy of his account of the above demonstration,
Mr. T. sends the corroborative testimony of Lieutenant F. H. Crosby, dated
November 15th, 1892. " I certify that I am personally acquainted with Mr.
J. R. T., of Los Angeles, Cal. ; that I saw him very frequently about
the time his leg was lengthened ; that I walked with him considerable
distances ; that he spent Friday evening at my house wearing at that time
the thick cork sole—at least l^in. thick; that he expressed then and at other
times a firm conviction that his deformity would be at some time overcome
through the truths of Christian Science ; that he spent the following Monday
evening at my house wearing an ordinary pair of shoes of equal thickness of
sole ; that I walked at least half a mile with him that evening ; that I looked
for signs in his walking that would indicate inequalities in the length of his
legs ; that he walked erect and with no sign of pain or inconvenience ; and
that, although I have no means of proving it, I believe—I am as sure as I
can be of another man's acts—that he used no other means to bring about
the lengthening of his leg than the methods of Christian Science.—F. H.
Crosby, Lieut., U. S. Navy."
We asked for some details of this rapid change and lengthening of the
limb. Was there any full description of the limb, its bones, joints and
muscles, before the lengthening ? was there any elongation of the long bones of
the limb, the femur, tibia, or fibula, such as could be shown by the comparison
of measurements made between different parts in the same bone before and
after the lengthening ? was there any curvature which by being straightened
could have made the bone longer 1 was there any evidence of chronic muscular
spasm before the lengthening, of tension or adhesion of the tendons, or
muscles, or fasciae, or slight chronic displacement of the bones at the joints,
the hip, the knee, or the ankle ? for a change in these conditions might con
stitute or contribute to the lengthening. To these inquiries Mr. T. wrote
a reply to our informant saying that the shortness of his right leg " was by
reason that it did not grow equally with the left leg, so that it was about two
inches shorter than my left log." "I will further state," he continues, "that
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 173
the above statement as to the cause for my short leg included all the causes
which I then or now believe could be assigned by the medical profession.
The statement appears to me to exclude the hypotheses that the lengthening
occurred by reason of relaxation of 'chronic muscular spasm, of tension
or adhesion of the tendons, muscles or fasciae, or slight chronic displace
ment of the bones at hip, knee, or ankle.' In order that the statement
may be understood by the dullest one who may chance to read this, I will
say that none of the above quoted conditions were present in my case.
I cannot say whether there was a growth of the bones or not, and I know
of no way in which such a question could be determined. To-day the bones
appear to be the same length as those of the other leg ; but as to having an
* M.D.' to perform any measurements to satisfy his unbelief in the power of
mind to shape its own conditions of expression, I must respectfully decline.
The proofs of Divine Science can never be discerned through material means
and measures. ' A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign,
and no sign shall be given except the sign of the prophet Jonas. For as Jonas
was three days and nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of
Man be three days and nights in the heart of the earth.' The only satisfac
tory sign the human thought can get is to do as Jonah did, i.e., come out of
his belief of life, substance and intelligence in matter. If Mr. Myers and
those with whom he is associated will open their minds to the truth that
there is no life, substance or intelligence in matter, that the Son of Man is
not in the heart of the earth ; that is, to-day, if they will come out of their
material beliefs, they will learn more in one day than they can otherwise
learn in an age. They with their belief of mind within a skull, of them
selves within a material body, fulfil the type of Jonah within the body of the
whale. When they appeal to Omnipotent Mind to release them and deliver
them from this false environment, they, like their prototype, will find them
selves placed on firm ground. . . . If I were to destroy every scrap of
evidence that I had ever had the deformity I have spoken of, it would
relieve me of much that is not desirable. I knew when the Society was
discussing it, and was almost unable to put on my shoe by reason of the
swelling induced in that member when it was being mentally discussed in
London. I am fearless, though, and know that such seeming power for evil
is a myth."
Mr. T.'s perceptions are indeed abnormally acute if he painfully
felt our Society " mentally discussing " his case at a time when
that discussion was confined to the forum conscientice of a single
member. Mr. T. compares our difficulties to those of Jonah when
swallowed by the whale ; but at this moment we feel more disposed to
sympathise with the difficulties of the whale when swallowing Jonah.
In the other cases received from the lady above mentioned there is
no marked repugnance or contempt for medical testimony, but this is,
nevertheless, conspicuously absent, and she holds out little hope of
being able to get it. A fair instance of the kind of case offered is the
following :—
174 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
M. 75.
Case X. —" Eliza H. slipped in the dark and was thrown against the stone
wall at the foot of the stairs. By this accident, six ribs were dislocated, the
bones of my right wrist were all displaced, and my hand pronounced useless
henceforth ; my skull was crushed, my stomach was injured, and all my other
internal organs displaced ; my spine, too, was seriously affected. I was attended
by the most prominent physicians. After four years of intense suffering, chills
and fever set in for nine months. On this account it was thought necessary
to send me out West. I went to the country to gain strength and returned
to the city in the autumn, expecting to be operated upon in the hospital where
I was a patient, but Professor Fellowes and Dr. Ludlam stated in lectures
to their classes that it would be impossible, as my body was a complete
wreck. Also, as all the inward organs were displaced, it was thought I could
not rally from the effects of chloroform. Seven years of intense suffering
were passed in a pilgrimage from hospital to hospital. I was entirely help
less and pronounced incurable, when a friend opened my eyes to the truth.
From that hour I abandoned all medicine and trusted God. I began to
mend, slowly but surely, and as a result of mental treatment only, followed
by earnest study, I am now in vigorous health, able to accomplish any work,
such as running a sewing machine for hours at a time, walking great dis
tances, going up and down stairs with perfect ease and pleasure, &c., and
find my happiness in imparting to others what I have received and am con
tinually receiving."
All that we can be sure of from this report as it stands is that there
was relief from pain. But for any real estimate of the powers of
" mind-cure " it is essential that we should learn the details of the dis
placement "of all the inward organs " and their re-adjustment ;—points
certainly sufficiently difficult to tax to the utmost the skill of the most
expert observers. Why, after all these years of hospitals, is there not
a single word from any physician 1 Have " Professor Fellowes and Dr.
Ludlam " any remark to make 1 We cannot but remember the case of
Maria Jolly, advertised in every newspaper in the days of our youth,
where " thirty years of indescribable agony " were cured at once by the
use of " Revalenta Arabica," which turned out to be the flour of lentils.
When we turn from faith-healing in America to faith-healing in
England we find an equal lack of satisfactory evidence. " We could
continue," says Dr. Schofield (Faith-healing, p. 50), " to give pages of
most interesting unproved or unprovable cases, but enough has been
narrated to show that, in England at any rate, we have found it
impossible directly to verify a single organic case." Dr. Schofield has
taken much trouble in the matter ; and additional weight is given to
his negative conclusion by the fact that he writes from a decidedly
Christian standpoint, and that his book is published by the Religious
Tract Society. Assuredly rational religion has little to gain from such
doctrines as Dr. Schofield quotes : " ' I hold,' says one writer, ' that all
who come to God for healing, and accept it by faith in His appointed
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 175
way, are Jiealed,—no matter what may be the evidence of their senses
to the contrary.' ... A friend of mine, a Christian doctor, found
a woman, from whom he had to remove a cancer, actually protesting
at the time that she was [already] healed. ... 'I know,' says
one, ' many people who have been cured for three or four years, but
who still wait its manifestation ! ' "
The fact that in our discussion of mind-healing we are reduced to
quoting cases like those given above indicates, of course, that no real
evidence for the alleged cures has fallen under our ken. We believe,
however, from private statements that at any rate marked alleviations
of pain and discomfort have often followed upon self-suggestion of this
concentrated kind ; and we here appeal to all persons seriously interested
in the matter to send us evidence somewhat more nearly approaching
the type which we have above laid down. We on our part are prepared
to believe, not indeed all that mind-healers have asserted, but a good
deal more than they have as yet made any attempt to prove. We
make this appeal with considerable hope, in spite of the probability that
some prominent persons in the Faith-healing camp will be little dis
posed to listen to us. The founder of the " University of the Science
of Spirit " —who argues that ordinary science is grossly at fault because,
while asserting that mercury cures, it refuses the obvious deduction,
" Then the more mercury you take the better,"—will be unaffected by
any views so old-fashioned as those which we can offer. The keepers of
" faith-houses," whose motto is " The Lord hath need of the money,"
will discover that the Lord hath need of the money still. The Brother
who announces in the " Crown of Glory " that he " has given up rum,
wine, tobacco, and everything but Jesus," will be content to call our at
tention to his approaching voyage to preach salvation (by Faith-healing)
on the West Coast of Africa, whither he will set forth " as soon as the
Xord has sent the balance of the fare." 1
The existence of a crew of this kind is an inevitable, although, it
may be hoped, a transitory result of any widespread popular attempt at
cure by suggestion and self-suggestion. Inasmuch as it seems to matter
little from whom the suggestion comes, so long as that suggestion is
sufficiently vigorous to get itself accepted, the charlatan has some
excuse for thinking that this is just the field for charlatans, and that
patients may as well believe in him as in Bernheim or Delboeuf. As time
goes on it may perhaps be found that the lectures of Mind-healers (300
dollars for a three weeks' course) and the prayers of Faith-healers (tariff
not stated) are alike needless, and that the sufferer himself, by the mere
strong exercise of his own volition, can at least control or alleviate
many nervous ills.
Two warnings only we feel bound to give. May not the solemn
1 See Buckley's Faith-healing, p. 66, &c.
176 Br. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
invocations of the Faith-healer—his assurances in the most sacred
names, and with the most awful adjurations, that the disease will dis
appear at a given moment, be altogether omitted ? These assumptions
of direct personal approach to the Deity are merely blasphemous ; and
when the solemn covenant fails the ignorant sufferer is apt to sink into
the same bitter unbelief which makes the savage beat his idol when he
is cheated of the promised rain. And it is our duty also to warn all
patients most seriously, when trying any "suggestive" or "psycho-
therapeutical " treatment, not to neglect any means whatever of
ordinary and orthodox cure.
Alitur vitium, vivitque tegendo,
Dum medicas adhibere manus ad volnera pastor
Abnegat, aut meliora deos sedet omina poscens. 1
We must now proceed to the second part of our task,—the exami
nation of the so-called Miracles of Lourdes. And here we pass at once
from the atmosphere of the future into the atmosphere of the past ;
from crude attempts to popularise modern scientific conceptions to a
method of psycho-therapeutic, which, however essentially the same at*
fond as the modern developments, relies for its efficacy upon beliefs
and practices which have come down to us through many transforma
tions from a remote past. Deferring for the time, however, any notice
of the parallels thus suggested, let us begin by examining the three
essential factors of the Lourdes story. In a few words, that story is as
follows. The Virgin Mary appeared to Bernadette, and in direct
consequence of that apparition miraculous cures are performed in and
near the same grotto where the divine figure was seen.
Plainly we have three points to look into. (1.) 'What is the
evidence that the apparition was really seen, or, if seen, was more than
a purely subjective hallucination? (2.) What is the evidence which
connects the apparition with the cures? (3.) What evidence is there
of cures so far surpassing the known effects of suggestion and self-
suggestion as to demand a special or a miraculous explanation ? On
each of these points there is a good deal to say.
(1.) The apparition. " On a great tablet of marble," says Dr.
Boissarie, "magnificently framed, fastened into the rock near the
grotto," the following inscription is to be read :—
1 Virgil, Oeorg. III., 454. These words—too often justified in faith-healing
practice—may be rendered as follows :—
Thus grows and grows the hurt which none can heal,
While the false leech denies the saving steel ;
He with hands clasped invokes a favouring day ;
And dies the victim, and the gods delay.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 177
Dates of the Eighteen apparitions
and words of the Blessed Virgin
in the year of grace 1858.
In the hollow of the rock where her statue is now seen
the Blessed Virgin appeared to Bernadette Soubirous
Eighteen times.
The 11th and the 14th of February ;
Each day, with two exceptions, from February 18th till March 4th,
March 25th, April 7th, July 16th.
The Blessed Virgin said to the child on February 18th,
" Will you do me the favour (me faire la grace) of coming here daily
for a fortnight ?
I do not promise to make you happy
In this world, but in the next ;
I want many people to come (qu'il vienne du monde)."
The Virgin said to her during the fortnight :
" You will pray for sinners ; you will kiss the earth for sinners.
Penitence ! penitence ! penitence !
Go and tell the priests to cause a chapel to be built ;
I want people to come thither in procession.
Go and drink of the fountain and wash yourself in it.
Go and eat of that grass which is there (de cette herbe qui est la). "
On March 25th the Virgin said :
" I am the Immaculate Conception."
This, then, is the official account of the vision. We will simplify
our discussion by waiving all question as to its good faith or accuracy,
and accepting it as an exact account of what Bernadette believed that
she heard and saw. How, then, should we classify such a narrative, if
sent to us in the ordinary course of our collection of evidence ?
Undoubtedly we should regard it as a purely subjective experience.
It does not answer any of the tests which we habitually impose on a
hallucination which claims to be veridical. The figure was seen by one
person only. The apparition did not coincide with any objective
event. It did not even—though to this point we must presently
return—contain any prediction whose fulfilment could be a retrospec
tive proof of the reality of the message. And—worst of all from an
evidential point of view,—the figure seen was one which, by the
admission, we believe, of the Catholic clergy themselves, has been
often reported as seen, mainly by young girls, under circumstances
where no objective value whatever could be attributed to the
apparition.
It so happens that on this last and very important point we can
adduce a significant series of facts. In Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII.,
p. 100, may be found a description, written for the S.P.R., by
M. Marillier from observation on the spot, of a series of apparitions
of the Virgin near Pontinet in the Dordogne. There the Virgin was
8
178 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
seen many times by many persons, generally through a special hole in
a wall, but sometimes on the open heath. We entirely concurred,
however, with M. Marillier in ranking all these visions as purely
subjective. We considered that the expectation and excitement
caused by Marie Magontier's account of her first vision—itself probably
a real, but entirely subjective experience,—might well have predisposed
her neighbours to similar hallucinations. The case was like that of
a haunted room, where one person has seen a figure, and then others,
informed of this apparition, have seen, or fancied that they saw,
something like that figure again. And the Bishop of Perigueux must
obviously have shared this view, for he discouraged the visions at
Pontinet and nothing has come of them.
It is not easy to explain why this long series of mutually
corroborative visions should be thus tacitly dropped, while the similar
visions of a single uncorroborated child should receive so much
attention. Dr. Boissarie makes two points based on the apparition
itself ; namely, the beauty of the figure and the loftiness of the
message. "We shall be able," he says, p. 31, "to arrive at a scientific
demonstration of the supernatural by placing side by side, on the one
hand, the faculties of this ignorant child ; on the other hand, the
vision of this ideal Virgin, a creation of an unknown type, which the
genius of the greatest artists had never conceived, and has had
difficulty in reproducing. The name of this Virgin, the words which
she uttered,—all is out of proportion to the percipient's intelligence.
Remembering the formal principle, admitted by all authorities, 'A
hallucination is never more than a reminiscence of a sensation already
perceived,' it is evident that the intelligence and the memory of
Bernadette could never have received the image or heard the echo of
what she saw and heard at the grotto."
How, it may be asked, do we know of the extraordinary beauty of
the form which Bernadette perceived? We know this, it appears, (p."0)
from the statement of the sculptor Fabisch, who made a statue of the
Virgin which Bernadette regarded as a faithful copy of what she had
seen. Of the pose and expression which he had thus faithfully
reproduced, Fabisch informs us that " he has seen nothing to equal
them in suavity and rapture in the chefs (Foeuvre of the greatest
masters,—of Perugino or Raphael." It was fortunate that the task
was committed to an artist so fully equal to the occasion ; and the less
favourable impression made upon one of ourselves by the sight of the
statue in the grotto should not, perhaps, be placed in opposition to this
•decisive judgment of the sculptor himself.
As regards the loftiness of the message we have less definite
guidance. Dr. Boissarie does not tell us whether it is the divine
command to kiss the earth for sinners, or the divine command to eat
Mind-Care, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lowrdes. 179
grass, which is manifestly beyond the intelligence of a simple child.
He dwells only upon the phrase " I am the Immaculate Conception " ;
and we may indeed admit that this particular mode of reproducing the
probably often-heard statement that the Virgin was conceived without
sin does indicate a mind which is either supra or infra grammaticain
We have quoted this passage at length mainly as indicating what it
is that Dr. Boissarie is willing to call a demonstration scienlifique du
mrnaturel. And since this physician is sometimes referred to as
though his judgments carried much weight, we may mention here that
the most definite knowledge which we have been able to gain about
him is that he "has been mixed up for several years (mele depuis
plusieurs annees, p. 147) with the religious and scientific movements of
his time." This fact about himself,—the only one which he vouchsafes
us,—is also that which the study of his volume would have enabled us
to divine with the most confident assurance.
If, however, we must admit that the story of the apparition is not
one which could have found a place as evidential in these Proceedings,
the same thing cannot be said of another incident, much less noticed,
but in itself far more surprising, in the recorded life of Bernadette.
This incident was observed and described by Dr Dozous,—the
physician to whose advocacy the credence bestowed on Bernadette, and
the consequent fame of Lourdes, seem to have been in the first instance
mainly due. Dr. Boissarie quotes from Dr. Dozous' account, but
without giving any reference, nor even the name of the work where
the citation occurs. We repeat the story, therefore, as Dr. Boissarie
gives it (p. 49).
" The girl, upon her knees, held in one hand a lighted taper, which
rested upon the ground. During her ecstasy she put her hands
together, and her fingers were loosely crossed above the flame, which
they enveloped in the cavity between the two hands (dans l'espece de
voute qui les separait). The taper burnt ; the flame showed its point
between the fingers and was blown about at the time by a rather strong
current of air. But the flame did not seem to produce any alteration
in the skin which it touched. "
" Astonished," says Dr. Dozous, " at this strange fact, I did not
allow anyone to put a stop to it, and taking out my watch I could
observe it perfectly for a quarter of an hour. Her prayer ended,
Bernadette rose, and prepared to leave the grotto. I kept her back for
a moment and asked her to show me her hand, which I examined with
the greatest care. I could not find the slightest trace of a burn any
where. I then tried to place the flame of the taper beneath her hand
without her observing it ; but she drew her hand quickly back, exclaim
ing ' You burn me ! '
" This fact," continues Dr. Boissarie, " has often been imperfectly
n 2
180 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
interpreted. It includes two elements quite distinct from each other,
the insensibility, and the absence of actual burning. Bernadette in
her ecstasy might have lost the sensation of pain ; . . . but actual
combustion, actual destruction of tissues by heat takes place under all
circumstances and inevitably, irrespective of pain or absence of pain."
This is quite true ; nor would any kind of preservative application have
sufficed to prevent the fingers from being charred under the conditions
described.
We have here, then, a most important statement, vouched for by
Dr. Dozous, one of the most essential witnesses in all this case, and
(according to him) confirmed by all the persons present, who " saw the
flame mount along the interlaced fingers, and but for Dozous' inter
vention would have taken the taper from the child's hands."
It seems to us that a physician's observation so easy, so prolonged,
and by the observer's account so corroborated both by his own immediate
experiment and by the agreement of all bystanders, cannot be set
down to mere mal-observation. It must either be true or else wilfully
false. If wilfully false it brings down with it, one may say, the whole
legend of Bernadette, of which this is by far the most remarkable and
apparently the best-attested incident. If on the other hand, Dr.
Dozous' story be true, what are we to hold that it proves? What
parallel cases have we with which to compare it 1 The obvious answer
is that we have a series of similar occurrences reported in the case of
D. D. Home. Home's phenomena of resistance to fire are in fact both
in themselves more striking and better attested, since we have such
names as those of Mr. Crookes, Lord Crawford, Lord Dunraven, with
other observers of known position and probity, to set against the little-
known Dr. Dozous, and the still less known peasants who witnessed
the " miracle of the taper" at Lourdes.
This parallel, however, striking as it is, does not carry us much
further towards the solution of the Lourdes problem. For in the
first place D. D. Home's phenomena, in spite of their attestation, have
not gained general scientific acceptance ; and in the second place, those
who do believe in them are undecided as to the power—whether
resident in Home himself or in unknown spirits—to which these
striking effects are to be attributed. The " miracle of the taper,"
therefore, if truly reported, may show that Bernadette was a " medium,"
but cannot fairly be used to prove the action of the Virgin Mary. Still
less safe would it be to appeal to the ecstasies themselves as proving the
divine character of their inspiring cause. Here again Mr. Daniel
Home also had Ms ecstasies,—controlled by " guides," who were quite
as sensitive to human incredulity as better-authorised saints might have
been. " Little faith ! " they would exclaim,—" little faith ! Will you
not trust in Dan ? "
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 181
And this brings us to the second point marked out for our
discussion. What connection is to be discerned between the visions of
Bernadette and the cures subsequently occurring at Lourdes ?
In the first place it may be observed that the original words of the
message make no mention whatever of physical healing. On the
contrary, the Virgin expressly states that the happiness which she
promises is to be enjoyed in the next world and not in this. What she
apparently aims at in this world is worship for herself : "I want people
to come," " I want people to come in procession." There was also,
indeed, a direction to wash in the stream, and to drink of it. Whether
this stream meant the visible Gave, or its visible tributary,—both
within a few yards of the spot—or the spring just below the surface
which Bernadette is said to have scraped clear with her hands 1—it
seems to have referred to a stream sufficiently established to have
already grass growing on its banks, which Bernadette (presumably with
other believers) was commanded to eat. Whether Bernadette, or any
one else, did eat it is not quite clear. And why they were to eat it, why
they were to wash in the stream, is still more mysterious. It may
have been for the same reason that they were to kiss the ground, as an
act of abasement or penitence for sin. But we need hardly perhaps
further analyse the somewhat incoherent message which has since been
made to mean so much more than its actual words will carry.
A quarryman of the name of Bourriette, however, (Boissarie, p. 99)
conceived the idea that the water of the spring in the grotto might
with advantage be applied to his eyes, injured by an explosion. The
alleged good effects of the water, in this and other cases among the
neighbouring peasantry, started the long series of cures with which we
shall presently have to deal.
The connection between these cures and the Virgin Mary lies in
almost all cases in the subjective conviction of the sufferer that he will
be cured at Lourdes and that the Virgin's aid will do it. Sometimes,
no doubt, his conviction may be reinforced by a dream, as when
Mustapha, a Mussulman in Constantinople, dreamt that a lady in
white told him that she was the Virgin adored by the Georgian
Fathers in that city ; in whose chapel, in fact, water from Lourdes is
distributed gratis. Mustapha's right eye, which he had completement
perdu — " lost altogether," — was radicalement gueri—" completely
cured " (we are told), when he awoke, and Dr. Boissarie concludes
(p. 237) that " Our Lady of Lourdes seems to have commenced the
religious reformation of the East." Of such dreams and like phenomena
we shall have something to say further on.
1 It would be interesting to compare this alleged miraculous discovery of a spring
with the exploits of "dowsers "or "water-finders"; but we have not seen any
account definite enough to serve as a basis for discussion.
182 . Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
For the present our point is that we have not in analogous cases
considered that subjective evidence of this kind, even when backed up
by definite assertions of identity and continuous action on the part of
some unseen agent, did really constitute a proof that that agent was
at work. We have regarded it as still possible, and even probable,
that the effects were produced by self-suggestion, and that the alleged
Spirit or Guardian was no more than a form in which the self-suggeslion
clothed itself.
A remarkable case, recently received, may here be quoted to
illustrate both the degree of insistent assertion and apparently of
active supernormal influence which may sometimes point to the inter
vention of some given spiritual agency,—and at the same time the
degree of doubt and reserve with which it seems needful to meet
assertion and evidence of that particular kind.
The writer of the following narrative is a physician occupying an
important scientific post on the Continent of Europe. He is known to
us by correspondence and through a common friend,—himself a savant of
European reputation,—who has talked the case over with Dr. X. and
his wife, and has read the statement which we now translate and
abbreviate. We are bound to conceal Dr. X.'s identity, and even his
country ; nor is this unreasonable, since the bizarrerie of the incidents
to be recorded would be felt as greatly out of place in his actual
scientific surroundings. The Dr. Z. who here appears in the somewhat
dubious character of a mesmerising spirit, was also, as it happens, a,
savant of European repute, and a personal friend of Dr. X.'s.
M. 76.
Account of Phenomena Observed with Mme. X.
Case XI.—Mme. X. is a lady healthy in body and mind, well-balanced, of
sound judgment, strong common-sense, and a calm and firm character ; she is
charitable without excess ; is not susceptible to flattery, nor given to enthu
siasm ; she detests falsehood and duplicity and abhors injustice. She has never
had any one of those serious maladies, such as meningitis, typhoid fever, &c.,
wjiich are apt to leave traces on the nervous system. Nor has she suffered
from any nervous complaint. She is the very opposite of what would be
termed a nervous or hysterical subject. She is sensibly affected by accounts
of human woes, especially among children ; but such sensibility by no means
explains the accesses of violent laughter which I have remarked in her since
the commencement of the series of events to be now related. These accesses,
which have nothing in common with the hysterical crises which they super
ficially resemble, are always caused by some extraordmary communication
emanating from an occult intelligence.
In September, 1890, while we were staying in the country, Mme. X.
sprained her right foot on a very dark night. A fortnight after our return
to M the foot was almost well ; but shortly afterwards I fell ill, and Mme.
X. underwent much fatigue in nursing me. The injured foot then became
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 183
inflamed and painful ; and the left foot also became painful. For all that
winter Mme. X. was obliged to lie up, the foot being kept from all movement
by plaster or silicate dressings. This treatment was ultimately abandoned ;
the foot was simply bound up and crutches used. There was inflammation
of the tissues of several of the joints of the right foot, and we were seriously
alarmed.
At this point certain friends talked to Mme. X. about the alleged facts of
Spiritism, of which until that date she had had a very vague notion. They
praised the beneficent intervention of spirits in disease ; but had much
difficulty in inducing her to admit the mere possibility of facts of this nature.
I can affirm, therefore, that it was only with great difficulty that these friends
succeeded in vanquishing Mme. X.'s scepticism — which was moreover
supported by my own objections to Spiritism—and at last persuaded her to
submit herself to the action of the invisibles. The spirit-guide of a group of
which one of our friends was a member advised the intervention of the
(spirit)-doctor Z. A day was arranged when Dr. Z. was to visit Mme. X.,
and she was informed of the date. Owing to other preoccupations we com
pletely forgot this rendezvous. On the day named—it was in April, 1891—
Dr. Z. announced himself by raps in the table. Only then did we recollect
the rendezvous agreed upon. I asked Dr. Z. his opinion on the nature of
the injury to Mme. X.'s foot. By tilts of the table, through Mme. X.'s
mediumship, he gave the word "tuberculosis." He meant that there was
tuberculosis of the joints, and of this there had been some indications. Had
Mme. X. been predisposed to tubercle I doubt not that this would have
supervened. Personally, I much feared this complication, and Dr. Z.'s
answer (as I at once thought) might well be the mere reflection of my fears.
It left me no more anxious than before. We now know that there was in
fact no tuberculosis. In any case, Dr. Z. ordered a merely soothing remedy,
a sulphur ointment. Some days later, at our request, Dr. Z. reappeared and
promised to undertake the cure of Mme. X.'s feet ; warning us, however,
that there would never be a "restitutio ad integrum," but that the patient
would be unequal to long walks, and would suffer more or less from her feet
in damp weather—which has proved to be the case.
I come now to the phenomena, mainly subjective, which Mme. X.'s case
began to present. On August 17th, 1891, the patient felt for the first time
a unique sensation, accompanied by formication and sense of weight in the
lower limbs, especially in the feet. This sensation gradually spread over the
rest of the body, and when it reached the arms, the hands and forearms
began to rotate. These phenomena recurred after dinner every evening,
as soon as the patient was quiet in her armchair. At this point the
X. family went into the country to R , and at that place the manifes
tations took place twice daily for some 15 or 20 minutes. Usually the
patient placed her two hands on a table. The feeling of "magnetisation"
then began in the feet, which began to rotate, and the upper parts of the
body gradually shared in the same movement. At a certain point, the hands
automatically detached themselves from the table by small, gradual shocks,
and at the same time the arms assumed a tetanic rigidity somewhat resembling
catalepsy. On one occasion when these sensations had been strongly marked,
and the patient had felt the whole of the upper part of her body stiffened.
184 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
she went to bed and saw in the dark an intense light which lasted for several
minutes and then gradually disappeared.
Three weeks after the family's return to M the phenomena changed
in character, and gained in interest. The patient had begun to be able to walk
without much difficulty ; but all forced and voluntary movement of the fix>t
was still painful, although when the movement was initiated by the occult
agency no pain whatever was felt. One evening, after the usual seance, the
patient felt her head move against her will. An intelligent intercourse was
thus set up between the patient and the unseen agent or agents. The head
nodded once for "Yes," twice for "No," three times for a strong affirm
ation. These movements were sometimes sudden and violent enough to cause
something like pain. Words and phrases could, of course, be spelt out in this
way. This form of correspondence has never wholly ceased ; although the
intensity of the phenomenon has now much diminished. The occult agent
now impresses one or other of Mme. X.'s hands with movements which
trace in the air the form of letters of the alphabet ;—a plan which works
well and quickly.
Mme. X. is also a writing medium ; and this power first showed itself in
a strange way during the stay in the country of which I have already spoken.
She was writing a letter one day, with no thought of these unseen agencies,
when suddenly she felt her hand checked. Warned by a special^sensation,
she still held the pen. Her hand placed itself on a sheet of paper and began
rapidly to write alarming predictions. The writings retained this tone only
for a few hours ; and soon the communications became trivial in character,
and, save in some exceptional instances, have since remained so.
Another phenomenon followed shortly afterwards. One day Mme. X.
felt herself lifted with force from her armchair and compelled to stand up
right. Her feet and her whole body then executed a systematic calisthenic
exercise, in which all the movements were regulated and made rhythmic with
finished art. This was renewed on following days, and towards the end of
each performance,—sometimes of an hour's or two hours' duration—the
movements acquired extreme energy. Mme. X. has never had the smallest
notion of chamber-gymnastics, Swedish or otherwise, and these movements
would have been very painful and fatiguing had she attempted them of her
own will. Yet at the end of each performance she was neither fatigued nor
out of breath. All was going well, and Dr. Z. had announced that henceforth
his attentions would not be needed, when next day a singular accident threw
everything back. Mme. X. had mounted with great precaution upon a low
chair with four legs and a large base of support to take an object from a
wardrobe. Just as she was about to descend, the chair was violently snatched
from under her feet and pushed to a distance. Mme. X. fell on the diseased
foot, and the cure had to begin again. [In a subsequent letter Dr. X.
explains that by Mme. X. 's account this movement was distinctly due to an
invisible force ; no natural slipping of the chair.]
Mme. X. was accustomed to bandage her own foot every morning. One
day she was astonished to feel her hands seized and guided by an occult
force. From that day onwards the bandaging was done according to all the
rules of the art, and with a perfection which would have done credit to the
most skilful surgeon of either hemisphere. Although very adroit with her
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 185
hands, Mme. X. had never had occasion to practise nursing or to study
minor surgery, yet the bandages thus automatically applied were irreproach
able, and were admired by everyone. When Mme. X. wished to renew the
bandages, she placed the strips all rolled up upon a table within reach of her
hand, and her hand then automatically took the bandage which best suited
the occult operation.
Mme. X. is accustomed to arrange her own hair. One morning she said
laughingly, "I wish that a Court hairdresser would do my hair for me;
iny arms are tired." At once she felt her hands acting automatically, and
with no fatigue for her arms, which seemed to be held up ; and the result
was a complicated coiffure, which in no way resembled her usual simple
mode of arrangement.
The oddest of all these automatic phenomena consisted in extremely
graceful gestures which Mme. X. was caused to execute with her arms,—
gestures as though of evocation or adoration of some imaginary divinity, or
gestures of benediction. When the occult agent placed her before the
portrait of her son whom she lost five years ago the scene became
really affecting,—and moved Mme. X. herself to tears. The few persons
who witnessed this spectacle are agreed that it was worthy of the powers of
the greatest actress. Of such a gift Mme. X. has nothing ; her nature is
simple and frank, but cold rather than demonstrative.
At the Paris Exhibition of 1889 Mme. X. once saw the "Javanese
,dance," consisting of rhythmic motions of the body with contortions of the
arms. The occult agents caused her to repeat this dance several times with
perfect execution.
[Disliking these phenomena,] Mme. X. has tried very hard to free
herself from this control, and has to a great extent succeeded, by the use of
,cold water, by strongly resisting all communications, and by "passes of
disengagement " executed by a hypnotiser. [This has reduced the phenomena
almost entirely to automatic writing, which, though vague or fantastic when
dealing with ordinary topics, is precise and intelligent on medical questions.]
Thus far the phenomena recorded have been purely subjective ; in those
which follow there is something objective also. When one has the honour to
he treated by a physician of Dr. Z.'s celebrity (!) ordinary kindness bids one
sometimes think of benefiting one's neighbour. One of the officials of my
department had suffered for many years from pleurodynia, which occasionally
laid him up altogether, and also from frequent attacks of sick headache.
Dr. Z. was consulted and prescribed an internal treatment which, to my
great surprise, consisted mainly of "dosimetric granules"; [which this
great official surgeon had not in his lifetime employed]. He also caused Mme.
X. to perform "passes of disengagement " for ten or fifteen minutes at a
time. It was noticeable that while these passes were made with extreme
violence, Mme. X. 's hands were arrested at the distance of a millimetre at
most from the patient's face, without ever touching him in the least. Mme.
X. could never of herself have given to her movements such a degree of
precision. For two years now the patient has felt no more of his pleurodynia,
and his migraine is, if not altogether cured, at least greatly reduced.
One day—I suppose by way of a joke,—Dr. Z., after one of these
seances, pursued the patient with his influence as he walked home, and
186 Br. A. T. Myera and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
made him execute with his hands various gestures and contortions which
drew the attention of passers-by.
Another time, our servant A., whose husband was ill in hospital, came
crying to Mme. X. and told her that she had lost all hope of ever seeing him
cured, &c. Mme. X. asked Dr. Z. to take him in hand. He promised to do
so, and said that he would make him feel his presence. Next morning A.
went to the hospital and found her husband in despair. " Look here," he
said, ' ' besides what I had already, I am falling into a nervous malady. I
have been shaken about all night,—my arms and legs have executed move
ments which I could not control." A. began to laugh, and told her husband
that Dr. Z. had taken him in hand, and that he would soon get well. The
patient is going about as usual to-day, and is as well as an incurable pulmonary
affection allows him to be.
Under other circumstances I have myself consulted Dr. Z. as to patients
under my professional care. On each occasion he has given a precise
diagnosis and has indicated a treatment, consisting mainly of dosimetric
granules, sometimes associated with other treatment. These facts have
been repeated many times, and I owe great gratitude to Dr. Z. for the advice
which he has given me. His prescriptions were always rational ; and when
I showed fears as to certain doses which appeared to me too large, he took
pains to reassure me, but stuck to his prescriptions. I have never had to
repent having followed the advice of my eminent colleague in the other
world ; and I am bound to state distinctly that every time that a medical
question has been submitted to him the replies and advice of Dr. Z. have
been of an astonishing clearness and precision. I cannot say the same of
communications obtained on other subjects, in which he seemed to take a
malicious pleasure in leading us wrong. He—or someone else—has often
announced to us, with minute and intimate detail, the deaths of persons
known to us ; who were found on inquiry to be alive and well. Lastly, I
give a detail which tends to prove the reality of this occult magnetisation.
Mme. X. has often seen two luminous rays projected upon her feet during
the seances of which I have spoken above. The rays were invisible in full
light, and in complete darkness, but were seen in partial obscurity and
resembled rays of the sun passing through small openings into a dark room.
If this was a hallucination, it was shared on two occasions by the hypnotiser
of whom I have already spoken. I myself never saw the rays, which may
bo compared with those said to have been seen by somnambulists and other
sensitives as emanating under certain circumstances from the human frame.
In reply to inquiries Dr. X. adds the following remarks.
It is not impossible that Mme. X. should have at some time heard
myself or others pronounce the names of the medicaments prescribed. But
when she gave me an exact diagnosis, and formulated in detail a rational
treatment, I am sure that this did not come from her own mind. She has
never studied any branch of medicine—neither the therapeutic art itself,
nor the minor art of composing formulae. Nor could I have been acting
suggestively, since my own ideas were often quite different from those which
the occult agent dictated ;—unless indeed my unconscious self acted upon
Mme. X.'s consciousness,—which seems to me a somewhat too elaborate view.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 187
The dosimetric granules are a convenient mode of administering alkaloids,
glycosides, and other toxic principles, and I have often been alarmed at the
doses which Dr. Z. prescribed. I confess that I was astonished to find that
an occult agent who thus claimed to be a bygone Professor should have
selected a form of medication on which the Faculty look with no approving
eye.
As to Mme. X.'s foot, I have a firm conviction that it was healed by the
rhythmical movements imposed, and by the "magnetisation" of the occult
agent.
You ask me whether I consider these agents as belonging to the human
type. Provisionally, Yes ;—unless we admit that there exists, superposed
upon our world, another world of beings distinct from humanity, but knowing
it and studying it as we study the other regions of nature, and assuming for
the sake of amusement or for some other motive the role of our departed
friends.
Dr. X. concludes with warnings against the dangers of such
influence or possession ; dangers which he thinks that Mme. X. avoided
by her calmness of temperament and resolute maintenance of self-
control.
The savant already mentioned as introducing us to this case sends
us (May, 1893) the following corroborative statement. He is, it may
be observed, himself a physician.
" I have frequently seen Mme. X. For the last year or two she has had
no more phenomena ; but about two years ago she presented some curious
symptoms. In the first place, when she conversed with the late Dr. Z., her
so-called magnetiser, his replies were made by movements of her head. She
would seat herself in an armchair, and according as Dr. Z. wished to say yes
or no there were either two or three backward movements of her head.
Her head threw itself backwards with force, and gave a vigorous blow to the
chair-back. This movement was sometimes so violent that the shock was
painful, so that Mme. X. cried out at the sharpness of the blows. Long
sentences could thus be given, for when the alphabet was spelt out there
were movements and blows given with the head, just as in ordinary
Spiritistic conversations there are tilts of the table. Often, also, while one
was talking with Mme. X. , there were movements of her head, indicating
that the so-called Dr. Z. was taking part in the discussion, and approving
or disapproving such and such a phrase. More rarely, Mme. X. would
unconsciously articulate a few words with her hps, and these words were
professedly dictated by Dr. Z. As to the other phenomena, I have twice
been present at the ample, semi-ecstatic movements of salutation and prayer
which Mme. X. made against her will. It was a curious scene ; for Mme. X.
preserved her consciousness all the time and continued to talk to us while
executing this strange and complicated mimicry. It is to be observed that
Mme. X. is a person of calm nature, and rather apathetic than nervous.
She has strong common-sense, is healthy, and reasonable in character. It
seems that she never had any previous hallucination. She is an excellent
mother of a family, and deservedly enjoys general confidence and esteem."
188 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Dr. X. has sent us two of the prescriptions written by Mme. X.'s
hand We have compared them with British Pharmacopceal prescrip
tions, by the aid of Burggraeve's Guide de Mcdecine Dosime'iriqite
(Paris, 1872). Both prescriptions are in fair accord with English
practice ; the doses of arsenic in the one case, of strychnia in the other,
being rather stronger than usually given. Each prescription contains
several ingredients, in what seems reasonable proportion.
Finally, we learn that Dr. Z. in life was gay and fond of practical
jokes.
This curious narrative, which we cannot here criticise in all its
details, forms an instructive preparation for our study of the cures at
Lourdes. It reminds us, in the first place, that supernormal cures do
not form a unique or sacred group of phenomena, needing the assump
tion of some specially lofty origin. However effected, they will fall
within some class already often discussed. If effected by some agency
within the patient himself, they are a form of self-suggestion. If
effected by some extraneous agency, they may depend upon some
influence from living or departed persons, and so come under the
mesmeric category ; or they may depend upon actual movements of
ponderable objects (as where a needle issues rapidly from the hand, in
one of the Lourdes cases), and will thus fall under the head of so-called
spiritualistic or telekinetic phenomena. In Dr. X.'s case both mesmeric
and telekinetic phenomena are alleged ; and also that apparent com
munication of medical knowledge from an unknown source which has
been elsewhere noted in automatic messages, and which, though not in
itself an act of healing, may lead to a cure. But there is nothing
particularly elevated or saintly about these acts of medical help and
advice,—any more than there is anything specially saintly about medical
advisers while still in the flesh. Rather, the departed Dr. Z.'s skilful
good-nature is accompanied with a tendency to caprice and mystifi
cation, which may be very human, but is certainly not even semi-
divine. Again, this story, as we have said, illustrates the extreme
difficulty of establishing a connection between any given unembodied
agents and any given cure. In this case there is strong and repeated
assertion on the agent's part ; and there is also a kind of a priori
probability that such help as this should come from a great surgeon, who
is also an old friend. Take, for instance, the skilful bandaging ; that is
just what Dr. Z. could have done ; he asserts that he is doing it; nor
can any other more likely source of the skill be suggested. And
yet to Dr. X. himself, to us, and we imagine to most of our readers,
these assertions of Dr. Z.'s identity carry no conviction. He was never
willing to give any test involving knowledge of his past life ; and the
writings which he claimed to give were on all save medical subjects
dreamlike and delusive. If the prescriptions really came from an un
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 189
embodied intelligence we cannot be any more sure that that intelligence
was Dr. Z. than we can be sure that the author of similar prescriptions
given through Miss A., and described elsewhere in this Part, was
" Semirus, an ancient Egyptian."
And if, on the other hand, the phenomena were all in some way a
product of the subliminal selves of Dr. and Mme. X., we still can find
ready analogies for their ascription to the discarnate friend. When a
hypnotiser has been in the habit of sending a patient to sleep (take for
instance Dr. Gibert and Mme. B.) he can give her, say, a photograph
of himself, or a box of lozenges, and tell her that when she looks at
the photograph, or takes a lozenge, she will go to sleep as if he were
there to hypnotise her. The effect will in fact follow ;—and the
symbolic act will sometimes be accompanied on the patient's part
(through strong association of ideas) by an impression of the
hypnotiser's presence in the room,—-or even by an actual hallucinatory
picture of him. Yet only self-suggestion, in this supposed case, is now
at work ; since at that moment the hypnotist is not thinking of the
patient at all. Similarly, Mme. X.'s mind might associate the deceased
friend with the act of healing, and might originate a sort of hallucina
tion of his presence which might express itself in the automatic script.
But if even in Dr. X.'s narrative the connection of the cures with
the alleged author is thus problematical, how much more is this the
case with the Lourdes cures, in almost all of which the patient's
subjective feelings—his prayers and piety,—are all the evidence
forthcoming to the Virgin's intervention ! Almost the only con
nection of the Virgin with the cures which can pretend to an
objective character is the so-called prediction or promise contained in
the words spoken to Bernadette. But we have already seen that these
words, naturally construed, contain no promise of cures, and no pre
diction whatever, unless an expression of a wish that people should
come in procession is a prediction that they will obey what they take
to be a divine message. As to the idea of medical aid, it seems almost
expressly excluded by the words "I do not promise to make you happy
in this world, but in the next." And yet the supposed utterance of
these vague words by that figure, which of all figures is admitted to be
the one most frequently seen in purely subjective hallucinations, is
assumed as explaining a series of cures which, to whatever cause they
may be due, at least offer no more intrinsic evidence of the action of
the Virgin Mary than certain other cures, to which we shall presently
allude, offered of the action of ^sculapius.
Judging, we repeat, by the canons of evidence generally used in
these Proceedings, we can neither say that there is any sort of proof
that Bernadette's vision was veridical (truth-telling as opposed to
merely subjective), or that the cures which have undoubtedly since
190 Dr. A. T. Myers ami Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
. occurred at Lourdes bear any relation to that vision beyond what the
minds of the patients have chosen to assume as existing. The proof of
divine intervention must therefore rest upon the cures themselves ;
and these, of course, may prove so striking as to lead us to feel that,
in the absence of all ordinary explanations, we are bound to give
weight to those stranger causes which patients and physicians here
combine to invoke.
The medical evidence for the miracles at Lourdes has been from
time to time published in the 25 vols, of the Annales de Lourdes since
1868, but it is only in the more recent years that its apologists have
claimed high accuracy of observation,1 and in such a wide field it is to
the last three or four years that our attention had best be given. In
1891 Dr. Boissarie published his volume already cited, entitled
Lourdes, which claims to be an exact medical summary of the
evidence for the miraculous cases made by an expert after long personal
examination and complete access to all the sources of information.
This work has been accepted by the lay supporters of the school as
their technical book of reference.2 From it, therefore, we also shall
take our medical descriptions.
M. 77.
Case XII. —The cure of Mlle. Blondel3 is one that deserves notice. She
was a lady whose history is traced far back and who had been the patient of
many doctors. She was born in 1839; and in 1863 and the winters of several
successive years had suffered from severe sore-throats (" laryngo-tracheite")
which had been treatedatAmelie, Cauterets, and Mont-Dore. In 1873 (aet. 34)
"a rheumatic attack," we are told, "affected her spinal cord and produced a
paralysis of her lower limbs. " Treatment by electricity, blistering, hydro-
therapeutics and various other methods was tried during the next five years,
but without improvement. In 1879 she first visited Lourdes, and was twice
bathed in the sacred bath (pisci'»ie), but even that was useless. The muscles
of the legs were atrophied, flaccid and powerless, the skin sallow and ill-
nourished. For three years treatment was abandoned as hopeless ; but in 1882
she was brought again to Lourdes as a paralytic who could only be treated by
miracle ; and this time the result of her first bath is claimed to have been
miraculous. "In a few moments she felt cured. Without the least hesitation
she could get out of the bath, stand on her feet, sit down or walk about, and
full powers of sensation had returned to all parts." " All the doctors, "
continues Dr. Boissarie, "who had had the treatment of Mlle. Blondel
gave a confident opinion that this was a supernatural cure." Whether
mong this company of doctors are included Dr. Maurice Raynaud and
Professor Charcot, whom she consulted in Paris, we are not told. At any
rate, a more observant doctor at Lourdes, Dr. de St. Maclou, seems to have
1 Boissarie, Lourdts, p. 238. " Depuis 1884 lea guerisons sont etudiees avec un
soin plus grand, si c'est possible ; avec une severity qui pourra defier tout* critique."
4 Lourdes, p. 239. s Amudes de Lourdes, XXIV., p. 235.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 191
had his doubts ; but the cure appeared a very good instance of the supernatural
to the rest, though not a word is said about the permanence of the recovery,
or the alteration in nutrition, reflex action, or electrical conditions of the
muscles, as to which we might have expected to have heard something.
Granted indeed the clinical facts of her ability and disability to walk, and
loss and recovery of sensation, there seems to us no evidence for the super
natural. It is what we should expect to find in any case of hysterical
paraplegia terminated by strong emotion.
As a parallel cure which makes no claim to be supernatural we
may cite in detail a case published by a distinguished Professor of
surgery in Glasgow, Mr. Charles Buchanan (which we are glad to notice
has also caught Father Clarke's eye). Mr. Buchanan visited Lourdes in
the autumn of 1883 and was much interested in the undoubted benefit
that some of the pilgrims received.
M. 78.
Case XIII.—"With regard," he writes, 1 " to persons who have been lame
and decrepit and known as such to their friends, the fact of their leaving their
crutches and walking away without help does seem astonishing and miraculous,
and it is cases such as these which make the greatest impression." " I believe
that the simple visit to the grotto by persons who believe in it, and the whole
surroundings of the place, might have such an effect on the mind that a
sadden change in the nerve-condition might result in immediate improvement
in cases where there is no real change of structure but where the malady is a
functional imitation of organic disease. Such cases are familiar to all
medical men and are the most intractable they have to deal with, the disorder
being in the imagination and not in the part. . . . It is rather a remark
able coincidence that on October 2nd, 1883, within three weeks of my visit
to Lourdes, I received a letter from Mrs. F., reminding me that some years
before I had performed in her case a cure, instantaneous, and to all appear
ance miraculous, and which she properly attributed to undoubting faith in my
word. It is a very good illustration of the kind of case to which I have been
alluding and of the power of mind over mind, and of the effect of imagination
in simulating real disease. Mr. F. called on me in October, 1875, and
requested me to visit his wife, who had been confined to bed for many months
with a painful affection of the spine. When I went into the house I found
Mrs. F., a woman of about thirty-one years of age, lying in bed on her left
side and her knees crouched up, that being the position that afforded most
relief. She was thin and weak-looking, with a countenance indicative of
great suffering. I was informed that for many months she had been in the
same condition. She was unable to move her limbs, any attempt being
attended with pain, and practically she was paralytic. She was not able to
alter her position in bed without help, and this always gave so much trouble
that she would have remained constantly in the same position if the
attendants had not insisted on moving her to allow of the bedclothes being
changed and arranged. She had altogether lost appetite and had become
1 Lancet, June 20th, 1885, p. 1117.
192 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
dreadfully emaciated, and only took what was almost forced on her by her
husband and friends. She had given up all hope of recovery, but had ex
pressed a strong desire to be visited by me in consequence of something she
had heard from her husband connected with a health lecture he had been
present at many years before. When I entered her bedroom something in
the way she earnestly looked at me suggested the idea that I might have
some influence over her, supposing it to be a case of hysterical spine simu
lating real spinal irritation and sympathetic paralysis. The Rtory I got was
not that of real disease of spine or cord or limbs, and I at once resolved to
act on the supposition that it was subjective or functional and not de
pendent on actual molecular change or disintegration. I went to her
bedside and said suddenly : ' I cannot do you any good unless you
allow me to examine your back.' In an instant she moved slightly
round, and I examined her spine, running my finger over it at first lightly,
then very firmly, without her wincing at all. I then said : ' Get out of bed
at once.' She declared she could not move. I said, 'You can move quite
well ; come out of bed,' and gave her my hand, when, to the surprise of
her husband and sister, who looked perfectly thunderstruck, she came out
of bed with almost no help at all and stood alone. I said, ' Walk across the
floor, now ' ; without demur, she walked without assistance, saying, ' I can
walk quite well ; I knew you would cure me ; my pains are gone.' She then
went into bed with very little assistance, lay on her back and declared she
was perfectly comfortable. She was given a glass of milk, which she took
with relish, and I left the house having performed a cure which to the
bystanders looked nothing short of a miracle. For many years I heard
nothing of Mrs. F., when on October 2nd, 1883, I got the letter referred to,
and shortly after the patient herself called at my house. In February, 1885,
she again called on me. She is at present in fair health, not robust, but
cheerful and contented. She says she never altogether regained her full
strength ; but as an evidence that she is not feeble or unable for a good
deal of exertion I may state that she now lives about five miles from my
house, and she made her way alone, partly by omnibus, partly by tramway
and the rest on foot."
The extent to which such hysterical imitations of disease, such
pseudo-maladies, may be pushed without any conscious bad faith on
the part of the patient is very difficult to define. The diagnosis
is perplexing, and we do not wish to accuse any of these Lourdes
patients of bad faith. We are glad indeed to quote a recent case, too
recent to be included in Dr. Boissarie's book, which is described in very
glowing terms by the cure of the district as a miracle which had
produced a profound impression in the neighbourhood of the patient.'
M. 79.
Case XIV.—Mme. Antoinette Toussaint was a lady aet. 22, who on July
14th, 1890, felt some sudden pain in her left calf and thought she must have
sprained it, for it swelled a good deal. Various surgeons tried various remedies
for nearly a year, but without any success, and the sprained leg grew gradually
1 Annates, XXIV., 246-250.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 1 93
more and more powerless and its muscles wasted, and were drawn up by a
slight contracture. Her religious friends said that a healing in the bath at
Lourdes was the only chance for her. For three months her thoughts were
set on this, and at last on August 26th, 1891, more than thirteen months
after the accident, she reached the grotto and after a night of pain and a
morning of solemn ceremony was introduced to the bath, and in leaving
" the miraculous water " felt her pain and trouble all gone and her leg quite
straight and well again. There was a little pain next day, it is true, but
that was cured by another bath and she went home rejoicing with her " legs
as strong as iron " and all the wasting and contracture gone. She was cured
undoubtedly,—there was no question of that ;—but we are glad to observe
that the editors of the AimaU* for January, 1892, 1 in which the cure's
account is printed, have shown a spirit of honest criticism by adding a note
to the effect that they consider this a case of " traumatic hysteria," as they
phrase it ; and that though they would not deny the sudden growth of the
wasted muscles, yet they had not sufficient observations to prove it.
To come now to the majority of cases, in which the accurate proof
of many facts in detail by first-class evidence at the time is a most
essential point, we may quote the case of a soldier—Francois Vion-
Dury, who is said to have been cured of blindness. In this instance
the late official doctor of the Lourdes water, Dr. de St. Maclou, who
in several cases has shown more caution and appreciation of the
value of evidence than his confreres, is very distinct in his avowal that
this is undoubtedly a miracle. " Nous sommes vraiment en presence d'un
miracle." 2
M. 80.
Case XV.—The man had entered the infantry ranks of the French army
in 1881, when he was 21, without any exception being taken to his eyesight,
and the next year (November, 1882) he was employed to help in putting out
a fire at Monceau-les-Mines. His eyesight was damaged, presumably by the
flames, " so that at the end of three months," he tells us, "I could not see
at all." Treatment was tried at the hospital at Dijon, and there, the patient
tells us, the doctor told him he had "detachment of the retina in both eyes."
That is a pathological condition which, so far as we know, invariably causes,
so long as it is maintained, loss of sight over that part of the visual field
which is affected, but which is by no means always incurable by nature or by
surgical art. We have no further account of his eyesight or of the pathological
condition of his eyes until nearly 18 months later (September 16th, 1884),
when Dr. Dor, of Lyons, gave him a certificate saying that he suffered from
detachment of the retina in both eyes, and, " although the retina," to quote
Dr. Dor's words, "of the left eye was now re-attached," yet the left
eye could not distinguish light from darkness ; and the right eye could only
see sufficiently to count the fingers when they were held up before it at the
distance of about a foot. About 18 months later (January, 1886) some
further treatment was tried by M. Dufour at Lausanne, which the patient
i Annates, XXIV., p. 250-
» Annaltt de Lourdes, XXIV., p. 30.
0
194 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
tells us had no result. In what condition M. Dufour found the eye or what
he did to it is not mentioned. After another four years and a half he
betook himself to a convent and made a novena which ended on Friday,
August 1st, 1890. On the following day, Saturday, August 2nd, he went to
confession, and in the evening one of the convent sisters brought him a
bottle of the Holy Water of Lourdes. He touched his eyes with it, and tells
us that he felt it sting him as if it had been ammonia,—and all at once, he
goes on, as quick as lightning, his sight came back to him, and he could see a
little. He made another novena, and every day the sight of his left eye
grew better, and at the end of the nine days he could see perfectly. About
nine months later a high ecclesiastical dignitary, the Abbe' Sonthonnax,
bears witness to his capacity to use his eyes in doing some manual work.
Now what does the evidence amount to here for a recovery which the
wisest and the most prudent of the judges of the medical phenomena at
Lourdes, the late Dr. de St. Maclou, does not hesitate to call a most un
doubted miracle ? One medical certificate, given six years before the miracle,
of a condition which all ophthalmic authorities admit is sometimes curable
by nature, and whose exact observation is difficult even to the most highly
skilled oculist,—and not a single further word of expert testimony, either to
the state during the intervening 6 years, to the miracle itself, or to the results
of the miracle ! The patient tells his own Htory of his feelings and we have
the letter of the AbW, who tells Dr. de St. Maclou that the man could see to
use his hands nine months after the miracle. But the true question at issue
is not whether he could see, or thought he could see, much better at one
time than another ;—there is no reason to dispute that, nor would it in itself
be miraculous ;—but whether we can be perfectly sure that he had a patho
logical condition called "detachment of the retina," which is by no means
very easy to observe, even for expert ophthalmological observers, and which
follows many different courses towards getting better or getting worse ; 1 and
whether we can be perfectly sure that he lost that pathological condition under
such absolutely unprecedented and unique circumstances as to justify us in
calling the change a miracle. In weighing such a point we are bound to
remember that we have no direct evidence that any retinal detachment
existed for six years before its alleged disappearance ; nor any medical evi
dence that it did then disappear.
The group of cases on which the medical authorities of Lourdes
seem to have laid more weight of late years than formerly as examples
of supernatural healing is that of ulcers and sores, both superficial and
1 Dr. de St. Maclou, in relating this case {Annates de Lourdes, XXIV., pp 23-30),
quotes the opinion of a high English authority, Mr. Soelberg Wells, late Professor of
Ophthalmology at King's College, London, that this pathological condition of
detachment of the retina, if there is not early treatment, frequently leads to complete
loss of sight {A Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, p. 381) ; but it is worth notice that a
few pages later in his book (p. 399), Mr. Soelberg Wells mentions that " a case of
reattachment with restored sight is described by von Gnefeand by Dr. Berlin {Klin.
Monatsblattcr, 1863, p. 49), and Mr. Bowman has also mentioned a case to me in
which he has observed the total spontaneous disappearance of a considerable detach
ment. Other cases have been related by Liebreich, Galezowski, Steffan, tc."
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 195
deep, as these afford evidence to the eye easy to appreciate when a
firm scar can be shown in place of the open wound. Some such cases
are mentioned by Dr. Boissarie in the A unales de Lourdes, as occurring
in the National Pilgrimage to Lourdes in the summer of 1891, after
the publication of his book. We shall say a few words later on as to
the rationale of such cures, but will first quote an illustrative case.
M. 81.
Case XVI.—Amelie Chagnon 1 was a girl of 17, who was reported by her
doctor to have suffered for about a year from a white swelling of one knee
and more or less disease of a bone of the left foot (second metatarsal) from
which there was a discharge by a sinus nearly a third of an inch deep. She
was not in good general health and any attempt at a surgical operation for her
cure was put off. She went to Lourdes August 19th, 1891, was bathed on
August 21st, and went back to her convent. On August 30th the doctor makes
a report that he finds the knee no longer painful and less swollen, and a
healthy scar over the instep where there had been at one time a running sore.
About the same time another girl, Clementine Trouve',2 came from a distance
with a similar disease of one of the bones of her ankle, which had lasted nearly
three years, and had not improved under surgical treatment. She came to
Lourdes for cure. Her foot was enveloped in bandages when she went into
the bath, as Amelie Chagnon's had been also. She left the bandages in the
water ; and it was there, in the bath, "in a few seconds," Dr. Boissarie
assures us,3 " that an instantaneous and perfect scar was formed, at 3 p.m.,
August 22nd, 1891." She went home, and eight days later, on September
1st, 1891, her doctor at Lusignan gave her a certificate that a scar and a
considerable amount of flattening of the sole of her foot was all that was left
of her old disease. He certainly seems to have felt no doubt of the
soundness of the scar, for to her cure' he writes : " Que ce soit le bon Dieu
ou le diable qui a gueri cette enfant, ca m'est tSgal ; mais la verity est qu'elle
est guerie." But we should have liked to have known more of the details.
What was the exact state of the bone and of the sore under the bandages
when the girls put their feet into the bath 1 Whose eyes were fixed upon the
sore during those few seconds when the miraculous cure was begun and
ended 7 Was the change too rapid for any human eye to tell whether it
healed from below or from above? We find no answer to such questions,
and fear that a great opportunity has been missed. If we are called upon to
admire an instantaneous cure, we ought surely to have observations written
and witnessed at the actual time of the change. On the other hand, we can
feel some sympathy with Dr. Boissarie when he explains to us how really
impossible it is for a small group of half-a-dozen doctors, with a crowd of
lookers-on, some sceptical, others ignorant, to get an accurate history, a
precise record in writing of the present condition and of every change in and
out of the bath of every patient, when they have some hundreds a day on
their hands in time of pilgrimage.
' Annales, XXIV., 159-163.
= Annales, XXIV., 163-166.
* C'est la qu'en quelques secondes une cicatrisation instantanee et complete sVtait
op^rte.—Annales, XXIV., 165.
O 2
196 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Side by side with this last case we will place an experiment in
suggestion equally surprising in its way with Clementine TrouvtS's
experience.
M. 82.
Case XVII.—Dr. Gibert, the well-known physician of Havre, desiring
recently1 to test the efficacy of suggestion in the waking state to influence
some pathological processes, took a boy of thirteen who had been brought
to consult him for the warts which covered the backs of both his hands.
These were so thickly clustered that there was hardly any clear skin to be
seen between them, and the boy could not bend his fingers enough to hold a
pen or even a knife and fork for his meals. M. Pierre Janet and some of
the doctors of Havre were gathered together to observe M. Gibert's treatment
and its results. He took the boy's hands into his own, looked at them closely,
and then gazed steadily in his face and asked him in a loud clear tone, " Are
you wishing to be cured ? " and as the boy answered at first half-heartedly,
he repeated his question several times till he got a reply with more decision.
" Yes, sir, I am wishing." " Mind what I say, then," said M. Gibert. " I am
going to wash you with blue water ; but if the warts are not gone in a week I
shall wash you with yellow water. Here ! Charles ! bring me the blue water. "
Then he sponged his hands with some water with a little blue colouring matter
in it and dried them carefully. When they met again on that day week the
warts were all gone except two or three. M. Gibert took him by the hands as
before and gave him a sound scolding for not having got rid of every one of
them. Then he sponged his hands with yellow tinted water without any drug
in it, which the boy fancied had something burning about it ; and a few days
later the last traces of the warts were gone and the skin was completely
healthy. This bold experiment illustrates the effect that the mind when duly
stimulated may in some cases have upon morbid conditions of the body
which medical and surgical science is puzzled how to relieve ; for warts,
though they sometimes grow slowly smaller and smaller and finally after
much more than a week disappear "by nature," as we phrase it in our
ignorance, yet are very intractable indeed to any medical or surgical treatment.
One might, moreover, have expected that warts, which involve only the
epidermis, would bo specially rebellious to suggestions which affect directly,
as we must suppose, only the nervous system. To make a wart drop off is
almost like making a nail turn brittle. Yet from the days of Lord Bacon
downwards the warts themselves drop off at the word of the charmer, while
the fact of their dropping off, as that philosopher puts it, " doth yet stick
by us."
One further specimen of a cure of a very striking class may be here
given.
Congenital deaf-mutism may be due to causes of very various cur
ability, but it is naturally one of the most conspicuous and distressing
of all bodily defects.
M. 83.
Case XVIII.—Dr. Boissarie gives us (p. 173) a short history of the
' Revue Scientifiqui, February 4th, 1893, d. 187.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 197
partial cure of Aurelie Bruneau, who after being educated as a deaf-mute,
(though we have no medical account of the extent of her infirmity), partially
recovered hearing after dropping Lourdes water for three days into her ears.
Dr. de la Mardelle thus reports : " She hears blows struck on the outside of
a door, or notes of a piano in the next room ; and not only does she hear but
she pronounces some words, and it is because she hears that she speaks.
From this fact we are obliged to conclude that this cure, obtained outside
ordinary processes, and without the help of any treatment, seems invested
with a supernatural character."
It does not appear to us, as it does to Dr. Boissarie, that this case presents
" all the guarantees which the severest criticism could desire." Is the per
ception of vibrations from blows on a door or from the playing of a piano a
proof of restored hearing ? Is it miraculous that a deaf-mute should have
been taught to speak "a few words," when she has been brought up till
twenty in an "institution de sourdes-muettes." ?
Let us place beside this cure another somewhat similar, though
more striking, cure of deafness, whose supposed author was, we are
told, addressed in consequence " in language of worship, and exalted
to the height of a supernatural being."
The narrative was first published in D. D. Home's Incidents in
my Life, but is reprinted with further names, and with the letters of
Mme. de Cardonne, by Mme. Home in D. D. Home, his Life and
Mission, p. 80.1
M. 84.
Case XIX.—"On March 19th, 1857," says Mr. Home, whose account we
slightly abridge, " when I was residing at 13, Rue des Champs Elysees, I
received a letter from a stranger to me, Mme. A. de Cardonne, of 233, Rue
St. Dominique, St. Germain, stating that she had had a dream, in which she
had seen her own mother and mine, and that the latter had told her to seek
me at once, in order that her son, who had been deaf four years from the
effect of typhoid fever, might be cured. This was so strongly impressed
upon her mind that she wrote to me to say that she would call upon me
with her son the following morning at ten.
" Accordingly, the next morning she presented herself with her son at my
1 As regards the genuineness of Mme. de Cardonne's letters, and the general truth
fulness of the account, as representing the facts as conceived by those who wer
parties to them, we may refer our readers to the S.P.R. Journal, Vol. IV., p. 101.
"Madame Home has been good enough to meet one of us (Mr. F. W. H. Myers) in
Paris, and has there allowed him freely to examine the collection of autograph MSS.
on which the book is founded. He thus went through the letters of more than a
hundred correspondents, and he compared these letters, in important cases textually,
in other cases in a more general manner, with the printed excerpts or translations in
Mme. Home's volume. The conclusion is that the letters given in the volume may be
confidently accepted as genuine. In many cases the handwriting of the correspon
dents was already known to Mr. Myers ; in many others there were postmarks, official
stamps, crests, monograms, &c., on the letters which indicated their date or source ;
and in no case was there any circumstance of suspicion." Mme. de Cardonne's
letters were among those thus examined ; see list in Journal, Vol. IV., p. 117.
198 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
rooms, there being present Princess de Beauveau and Miss Ellice, who
were with me previous to my leaving Paris that very day. I had uniformly
refused such visits, but on this occasion I had been so much preoccupied
that I had not been able to acknowledge her letter. It was an embarrassing
meeting for both of us : the mother yearning for her son's recovery, and I not
knowing how I was to be instrumental in healing this long total deafness, the
more so that operations had been performed on the boy, as I afterwards
found, by eminent surgeons in Paris, who had said that it was impossible he
should ever be restored to hearing. During the mother's recital, describing
the various surgical operations to which he had been subjected, my sympathies
were deeply moved, and I had unwittingly thrown my left arm about the boy
and drawn him toward me, so that the boy's head rested upon my shoulder.
Whilst in this position, and as Mme. de Cardonne was telling some of the
most painful particulars, I passed my hand caressingly over the boy's head,
upon which he, partly lifting his head, suddenly exclaimed in a voice trembling
with emotion, ' Maman, je t'entends ! ' (Mamma, I hear you !) The mother
fixed on him a look of astonishment, and said ' Emile ! ' and he at once
replied ' Quoi 1 ' She then, seeing that the child had heard her question,
fainted with emotion. . . . The boy was able to resume his studies and
has continued to hear perfectly up to the present time."
" It was characteristic of Home (continues Mme. Home) that as soon as
Mme. Cardonne had left him he quietly finished his preparations, and started
for America, without troubling himself in the least to make public the
particulars of this wonderful cure, or to obtain the attestations of the mother
and the witnesses. It was not till his return from America with his sister
that Mme. de Cardonne could write to him the grateful letter [May 30th,
1857] from which I extract the following passages : . . . ' Messenger
of Divine Providence ! bless you, for you have wrought a miracle for my
son ! ' Mme. de C. writes again June 17th, 1857 : ' My son, who never
ceases to bless you, begs me every day to take him to see you. He is so
happy to have recovered his hearing that he cannot rest till he expresses to
you his gratitude.' "
Thus far we have been mainly engaged in pointing out the
imperfections of the Lourdes evidence to cures, and the parallels to
those cures which have been recorded among quite other surroundings.
We have a few remarks to add on the uncertainty and difficulty of
even the best medical diagnosis and prognosis in many cases where
popular opinion regards the malady as something unmistakable,
whose future course can be clearly foreseen. To illustrate this point we
take five maladies, whose cure is treated in the Annales de Lourdes as
obviously beyond the powers of suggestion. These are :—
Phthisis,
Atrophy,
Organic Paralysis,
Ulcers,
Cancers.
Let us say a few words on each of these heads in turn.
Mind-Gwre, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 199
Phthisis may be a disease which our art cannot cure, but it is by
no means a disease which cannot cure itself. " Complete arrest of the
disease," (say Drs. J. K. Fowler and E. Clifford Beale, in the Diction
ary of Practical Medicine), " is occasionally observed under the most
unfavourable circumstances ; such cases falsifying every rule of
prognosis." And Professor Jaccoud (one of the best French
authorities) insists in his book on the Curability of Phthisis, that the
tubercular growth in the lung occasionally dries up, becoming caseous,
chalky or fibrous, and so remaining for 20 years with no percep
tible symptoms, though still plainly visible on post-mortem examina
tion. And apart from these rare lifelong cures, temporary remissions of
the disease occur frequently, and with such surprising suddenness
of improvement that patients constantly think that there is a complete
cure when there is not, and physicians not seldom, after many years'
observation, conclude that either there never was tubercle, or that the
lung now contains nothing but healed scars of the old disease. A
post-mortem examination is often the only way of discovering whether
there really has been phthisis or no. Thus the best judges are often
left in doubt ; and the mistakes of the less experienced are innumerable.
Such being the facts, we cannot attach importance to such a cure,
for instance, as that of Sister Julienne (Boissarie, 30, 326), where,
in the first place, we have no proof of the existence of tubercle before
the cure,1 and in the second place no proof of the permanence of the
cure. The disease may have been a chronic nervous cough, with bron
chitis and dyspepsia.
Atrophy.—The rapid disappearance of atrophy, claimed in some of
these cases, is now recognised as a possible result of nervous stimulus.
The statements from Lourdes are not definite enough on this point.
Weights, measurements, records of pressure exercised on dynamometer,
are conspicuously absent.
Organic Paralysis. —Next as to paralysis depending not on mere
hysterical disability, but on actual cerebral and spinal injury. We
shall quote a typical recent cure from Lourdes, regarded as miraculous
by the patient's medical adviser, 2 and shall then give our reasons for
considering that there may have been, in fact, no organic injury still
persisting at the time when the cure began.
M. 85.
Cash XX.—Mme. FourS had led a healthy life on a farm near Dieppe until
1 The phrase "crachats caracteristiques " (p. 325) is an insufficient and second
hand statement. '' Creusee par les tubercules " (same page) is thus an unproved
assumption ; and since Koch has shown that tubercle is an essentially parasitic
disease, we cannot be satisfied without some real demonstration of the presence of the
parasite or bacillus.
* Dr. C. Helot, Annates de Lourdes, XXIII., pp. 161-170, 194-208, and 217-220.
200 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
at the age of 55, on May 16th, 1886, she had an apoplectic attack, which left
her with a "crossed hemiplegia,"—that is to say, some paralysis of the left
side of her face, and also of her right leg and arm. There was gradual recovery ;
and after twelve weeks she could walk with a stick only. There was no
aphasia, but an indistinctness of speech, which got well before she visited
Lourdes. As is usual in such cases the arm recovered more slowly than the
leg. It continued very weak, the fingers and elbow in a state of semi-flexion
and of more or less complete anaesthesia. Rigidity, a more serious symptom
in such cases, seems to have been absent. But it is hard to realise the state of
the arm, since we are told later on that although it had not changed its
condition she could not move it half an inch,1 and also2—which seems
absolutely inconsistent—that even before the leg recovered she used the
right as well as the left arm to lift the leg. After the first three months
progress was slow. Dr. Helot first saw her sixteen months after the onset
of the paralysis. He tells us little of her state except that her speech
improved and that she could stand on her right leg alone for a few seconds,
and walk haltingly. He gives no account of reflexes, electrical condition,
nutrition, or tone of muscles, or of regions of cutaneous anaesthesia ; nor
does he seem to have attempted any treatment, whether by medicine,
massage, or electricity. In September, 1888, the patient, who was now much
depressed in mind, visited Lourdes with her son, the Abbe Foure, but with
no medical man in attendance. Three baths in the sacred spring failed to do
good ; and on leaving Lourdes she insisted, just before telling her beads,
that more grace must be shown her next year. As she told the beads she
noticed more power in her right hand and in her right leg also. She tried
more movement with the right leg and found that it succeeded, —and then
with the right arm and that succeeded also. She was delighted and cried out
loudly, " Cured ! cured ! Do you see I am cured ! " She seemed to the Abbe
to have lost both her anaesthesia and her paralysis ; and three days later, when
Dr. Helot saw her again, she seemed to him certainly to have lost the
anaesthesia of the right arm and only to limp a little from habit, as convict*!
do who have worn a chain on one side for a long time. Within a fortnight she
could walk easily some eight or ten miles, and her power has been maintained
afterwards for the two years following ; for she was carefully re-examined
by Dr. Helot on August 11th, 1890. Such a case is interesting, but the
evidence is too incomplete for any clear medical diagnosis. The description
of the patient before going to Lourdes is inadequate ; the account of the
phenomena at Lourdes is unfortunately second-hand and not by expert
witnesses, and deals with such phenomena as need the most highly trained
observers for their complete description.
Now we suggest that although there was here almost certainly
some organic paralysis to begin with, yet the history of the case, so far
as given, is consistent with the supposition that this true paralysis
gradually disappeared, leaving behind it a functional paralysis, induced
(as we are forced vaguely to say) by the altered habits of the organism,
but not necessarily presenting any obviously hysterical symptoms.
1 p. 163. » p. 167.
Mind-Care, Faith-Cwre, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 201
Such a paralysis might rapidly disappear under emotional stimulus. In
support of this view we cite the following sentences from a recent
work of authority, namely, Various Forms of Hysterical or Functional
Paralysis, by Professor Bastian, F.R.S. (London, 1893). On p. 122,
Professor Bastian says : " It has, of course, long been known that
organic disease of the nervous system often co-exists with hysterical
symptoms ; but I have only lately realised the extent to which actual
functional paralysis and paralysis of organic origin may co-exist so
as greatly to lessen the apparent gravity of the cases, or vice versd"
. . . And p. 124, "The ultimate establishment of a cure may be
considered the rule in cases of functional paralysis. ... In some
cases, both of spasm and palsy, a cure may be brought about compara
tively speedily and often abruptly." Also p. 1.: " Hysteria is, after all,
only one of the general conditions under the influence of which paralyses
of a purely functional type may develop themselves. Because a case
belongs to the latter category, therefore, we must not on this account
look upon it as necessarily hysterical in its origin. But this is what is
only too frequently done."
Ulcers.—And just as it is to this very recent work of Dr. Bastian's
that we must appeal for the truest view yet attainable of the extent
to which so-called hysterical or functional conditions—conditions, that
is to say, not involving nervous lesions which our present microscopes
can discern—are effective in inducing paralysis ; so also is it to an
equally recent utterance of Dr. Charcot that we must appeal for the
truest view yet attainable of the extent to which similar hysterical or
functional conditions are effective in inducing actual (neurotic)
tumours,1 (which must not be confounded with " phantom tumours "),
actual suppurating ulcers and cutaneous gangrene. In a paper in the
New Review for January, 1893, Professor Charcot analyses at length a
case of this kind whose cure was imputed to miracle ; not at Lourdes,
but in 1731, and by virtue of the touch of a shift which had touched
the tomb of the Deacon Paris, and of some earth from the neighbour
hood of that tomb. After describing the details of a really terrible
disease, which had lasted for fifteen years, Dr. Charcot gives the
rationale of the cure as follows :—
" The oedema which was due to vaso-motor trouble disappeared
almost instantaneously. The breast regained its normal size. There
is nothing astonishing in this, since we know with what rapidity
troubles of the circulation may appear and disappear. When the
oedema disappeared, the local conditions affecting the nutrition of the
tissues were favourably modified ; the wound on the breast was
1 See Dr. Fowler on Neurotic Tumourt of the Breast, a paper read before the
New York Neurological Society, January 7th, 1890. New York Medical Record,
February 19th, 1890.
202 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
permitted to heal by virtue of physiological laws as well known as
those which had previously operated to produce the gangrene."
The doctrine which Professor Charcot thus formulates is no mere
isolated opinion. It belongs to a general view which has of late years
been rapidly gaining ground as to the trophic function of certain
nerves, and the rapid changes in nutrition which vaso-motor nervous
disturbance can induce.
It is strange to reflect that all these phenomena are, so to say,
lineal descendants of the stigmata of St. Francis. Ill-attested though
that famous case may be, it can now no longer be classed as in itself
improbable. If it bo true, it will not be the only instance in which
the Acta Sanctorum have pointed us to facts of deep import to science,
—which facts, nevertheless, have had to overcome the strongest scientific
prepossession. The danger of any prepossession, however natural, can
hardly be better illustrated than by the position of those who still
endeavour to deny all save the most superficial effects of hypnotic
suggestion. Such reasoners, when confronted with the phenomena
which we are studying in this paper, are obliged either to meet a grow
ing mass of testimony with blank incredulity, or to yield to the
miraculous pretensions with which that testimony is accompanied.
Their disbelief in stigmata, for instance, although that disbelief be
maintained in the interest of " natural causes " as opposed to " super
natural seemings," cuts from beneath their feet the actual and only
answer to some of these reverse processes at Lourdes,—these abolitions
by mental impression of physical disturbances just such as (in our
view) mental impressions can themselves create. For the open-minded
inquirer, on the other hand, these wonders begin to shape themselves
into something like law. To one axioma medium, at any rate, we
seem now to see our way. Whatever suggestion can cause, hysteria can
cause ; and whatever suggestion or hysteria can cause, suggestion can
cure.
Cancer.—But now for our last disease, which neither suggestion
nor any form of medical treatment has yet dominated. The Annales
de Lourdes contain several cases of the miraculous cure of cancer. It
would be of little use to cite these cases in detail. The objector will
of course maintain that they were not true cancer ; the apologist will
ask what, then, is the definition of true cancer, unless it be " cancer
that does not get well " ? It will be more to our present purpose to
quote in brief an account—at least equally well-attested,—of the cure
of cancer by mesmeric passes. The account is from Dr. Elliotson, who,
be it remembered, was one of the ablest and most experienced physicians
of his generation.
M. 86.
Case XXI.—"On the 6th of March, 1843, a very respectable person.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 203
aged 42, fair, and with the sallow complexion of cancer, called to solicit my
advice respecting a disease of her right breast. I found an intensely hard
tumour in the centre of the breast, circumscribed, moveable, and apparently
about five or six inches in circumference ; that part was drawn in and
puckered, as though a string attached behind the skin at one point had pulled
the surface inwaids ; and upon it, to the outer side of the nipple, was a dry,
rough, warty-looking substance, of a dirty brown and greenish colour. She
complained of great tenderness in the tumour and the arm-pit when I applied
my fingers, and said that she had sharp stabbing pains through the tumour
during the day, and was continually awakened by them at night. ... I
at once saw that it was a decided cancer in the stage termed scirrhus.
. . . Her father's mother had died of a "bleeding cancer" of the
breast. ... I proposed mesmerism to her ; my purpose was to render
her insensible to the pain of the surgical removal of the breast, seeing no
other chance for her ; and this, indeed, was a poor chance, for cancer
invariably returns." Four other physicians and Mr. Samuel Cooper, Professor
of Surgery at University College, London, concurred in pronouncing it
cancer. The history of the case is one of gradual improvement under
mesmerism, with some relapses, apparently coinciding with intermissions of
mesmeric treatment. The patient was extremely susceptible and exhibited
remarkable phenomena of many kinds.
In 1846 all pain ceased. In 1848 Dr. Elliotson reports :—
" The cancerous mass is now completely dissipated ; the breast is
perfectly flat : and all the skin rather thicker and firmer than before the
disease existed. Not the smallest lump is to be found : nor is there the
slightest tenderness of the bosom or the armpit." "The diseased mass was
dissipated and absorbed, and painlessly and imperceptibly." 1
Of this case we will only say that it seems to us impossible to
accept any one of the Lourdes cures of cancer and at the same time to
reject Dr. Elliotson's. What the disease was in either case, or how it
was dispelled, we do not know. We quote Dr. Elliotson's narrative
merely as one more non-miraculous parallel to an alleged miraculous
cure.
And here our detailed discussion of the Lourdes miracles must
close. From among a great mass of striking, but ill-reported, cures, we
have selected some of the most striking, which were at the same time
among the best attested, and we have shown that cures greatly
resembling these have been attained under circumstances where no
claim to miracle has been advanced. We have also pointed out
some of the points in which the Lourdes evidence must be greatly
improved if it is to be the basis of any serious conclusions
for the scientific world. More than this we cannot do. We have
left many striking cures untouched, and although we could find
parallels for some of these, we could not for all. It would, indeed,
1 Cure of a true Cancer of the Female Breast with Mesmerism, by Dr. Elliotson.
Zoist, Vol. VI., pp. 213-237.
204 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
have been surprising if we could; if with our own imperfect
knowledge, applied to these imperfect records, we had been able to
show convincingly what happened in each special case. Moreover,
among the vast number of patients treated at Lourdes, there are
likely, by the mere law of chances, to have been some better subjects
for suggestion than have elsewhere been found, and consequently some
cures which have not as yet been equalled elsewhere. For a fair
comparison it would be needful to take some other group of patients,
bearing a known proportion to the Lourdes patients, and to compare
the proportion of alleged cures in each group,—a test at present
impossible to apply.
If, then, we are asked for a provisional judgment on these various
groups of facts, as thus far recorded, we may give it in three clauses,
as follows :—
1. No one of the special forms of psycho-therapeutic which we
were asked to examine has yet produced evidence definite enough to
satisfy reasonable men of any miraculous agency, however surprising
the cure may sound.
2. Many forms of psycho-therapeutics produce, by obscure but
natural agencies, for which at present we have no better terms than
suggestion and self-suggestion, effects to which no definite limit can as
yet be assigned.
3. Thus far Lourdes offers the best list of cures ; but this superiority
is not more than can be explained by the greater number of patients
treated there than elsewhere, and their greater confidence in the treat
ment. There is no real evidence, either that the apparition of the
Virgin was itself more than a subjective hallucination, or that it has
any more than a merely subjective connection with the cures.
With a few words on each of these clauses we must conclude our
paper.
1. There need be no real difficulty in greatly improving the kind of
evidence now offered, if there is any real cure to report. The Faith-
healers, as is plain, both from our own citations and from Dr. Schofield's
book, are the worst offenders in this respect, showing too often a
positive unwillingness to submit their alleged cures to even the
friendliest medical scrutiny. At Lourdes much has been done to
improve the earlier vagueness of record ; and it is still more satisfactory
to observe that the present physicians (in spite of protestations which
sometimes read absurdly enough 1 ) do sometimes recognise that a
1 BoiBsarie, p. 238 : "Since 1884 the cures have been studied with, if possible,
even greater care,—with a severity which can defy all criticism. The physician
deputed to the care of the patients analyses and tests all the facta whioh present
themselves. He brings to this great inquiry a method and a system which may
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 205
great chance of evidence has been missed through their insufficiency.
" Of course," says Dr. Boissarie, 1 " if we had known beforehand that
Clementine Trouve" was going to be cured at 3 p.m. on August 22nd,
1891, we should have got together fifteen or twenty doctors on the
morning of that day, and taken them to see her ; and we should have
made an examination and probed the sore, and written down all that
we observed. But as it was, we had no time to do it. For such treat
ment we should want as many doctors as we have patients."
Not quite as many doctors as patients,—but no doubt a larger
proportion of staff to cases than is usual in a hospital when the exact
state of a patient before and after a particular moment is less often a
matter of importance. If, moreover, as we gather from Father Clarke,
only about two per cent, of the Lourdes cures are ultimately classed as
miraculous, much time would necessarily be consumed in noting facts
to which little subsequent interest would attach. But what of that 1
and what medical discoveries have ever been made without some such
lavish and ungrudging expenditure of time and pains ? Such investi
gation at Lourdes is in the last resort a mere question of money.
Large sums have been spent for emotional purposes—in churches or
processions—and have, no doubt, achieved emotional ends. If scientific
ends are to be achieved also, the number of physicians at Lourdes will
have to bear a somewhat higher proportion to the number of priests.
We must repeat that it is no imaginary, no impossible standard of
evidence which we have been throughout upholding. In the Trans
actions of the Clinical Society of London (to take London alone),—
in the Reports of the leading hospitals,—nay, in the principal
newspapers which treat of medicine,—the reader may find hundreds
of cases whose evidence reaches the level on which we insist. One
case from the first-named source we will briefly cite, as illustrating
two points which have a direct bearing on our present discussion.2
The first point is the degree of care and accuracy needed to determine
with absolute conclusiveness even one single and simple fact of clinical
observation. The second point is the strangeness of the fact itself—a
strangeness which, in an entourage that way disposed, might well have
been held to reach the level of a miracle.
Our readers are doubtless aware that since the general introduction
of the elinical thermometer some forty years ago the temperature of
patients in grave, or often in slight maladies, is habitually taken by
serve as a model to all those who may wish to follow in his steps. " Read in con
nection with the picked accounts given by Dr. Boissarie himself, such phrases as
these do certainly remind us that their author has been mdi depuis pliwieuri annea
au mtruvement rcligieux de son tempt.
1 Annates de Lourdes, XXIV., p. 128.
* Clinical Society's Transactions, 1875, p. 98.
206 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
its aid. Many thousands of these simple observations are made daily in
the United Kingdom alone. Among the millions of observations which
have thus far been recorded a remarkable uniformity prevails. The
temperature of ordinary health is from 98 deg. to 99 deg. Fahrenheit,
and each additional degree implies a perceptible increment of febrile
disturbance. A temperature of 106 deg. is a most serious symptom ;
and perhaps not one person per million per annum reaches 110 deg.
Not one person in a generation, so far as we know, reaches 115 deg. ;
and no one in any country had ever been known to reach 120 deg.
Each day—each hour—during which temperatures above 106 deg.
are maintained adds to the gravity of the prognostic.
Yet, such being the facts, Mr. J. W. Teale, of Scarborough, on
February 26th, 1875, presented a report to the Clinical Society of
London, of a lady under his care, who, after a fall from her horse, had
maintained for seven consecutive weeks a temperature never found less
than 108deg., and who on four several days had shown a temperature
of 122deg. In spite of this unheard-of condition of things, he reported
further that his patient had recovered. After this it seemed natural
to ask this medical Munchausen whether he had ever personally
observed a case like that of St. Denys, who walked about with his head
under his arm.1 But gibes were silenced when Mr. Teale produced his
proofs. Seven thermometers had been used for the observation. Three
of these were made specially for the occasion. Four were sent to be
tested at Kew, and found correct within a tenth of a degree. Each
thermometer was inspected by two or three trustworthy witnesses
before and after each observation, and the results were at once
recorded in writing. No hot water bottles were allowed in the room.
The temperature was taken in two, and sometimes in three parts of the
body simultaneously. Each thermometer, after having been shaken down
to normal, was changed in position, and readings again compared, to
•eliminate any local accident or fraud. Finally, these elaborate observa
tions were continued daily for nearly ten weeks. And thus, " in spite
of the widespread consternation at such a revolution of [previous]
notions, yet it was impossible to question the accuracy of the record."2
Here then, is a fact. And if it was worth while to take this
trouble in order to prove the truth of this isolated clinical observation,
which at present we can neither understand nor make use of, what
trouble ought we not to take if we had any chance of proving that a
direct divine intervention has remedied even the least of human ills ?
2. The second clause of our conclusion, which pointed out that no
single scheme of psychical healing could at present establish a
1 Britiih Medical Journal, 1875, Vol. I., p. 347.
* Lancet, 1875, Vol. I., p. 340.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 207
pre-eminent claim to success, simply because there was so much of
undefined prospect of this kind in so many directions, is naturally
intended to stimulate, and not to check, further effort along each path
which has thus far led to success. For the hope is that that second,
or psychological, element in all therapeutics, which has thus far been
left to chance and wonder, while the physiological element has fallen
under settled law, may itself also be gradually recognised as an orderly
part of Nature, presenting definite and partially soluble problems of
its own. Nascitur ars secunda medendi. Or let us say, in purely
physiological language, that we seem on the eve of one more forward
step along a road which medicine has long been pursuing. Our process
has as a rule been from local to general treatment ; from the appli
cation or affusion of external remedies on the diseased part to the
ingestion of remedies through the stomach, and then oh to the injection
or infusion of remedies through the blood. We now propose to heal the
patient's tissues not through the stomach, nor through the blood, but
through the brain ; to utilise the controlling and innervating, as yre
have utilised the diffusive and the peptic power. Affusion, ingestion,
infusion, suggestion. At each step we touch the ill more intimately ;
we call more directly upon the patient's own inward forces to effect the
needed change.
3. The third clause of our judgment explained the superiority of
results at Lourdes over results at other faith-healing centres, by the
superior numbers and faith of the pilgrims resorting thither. But how
is that superior faith itself to be explained 1 Why should the Lourdes
grotto prove a more potent rallying point than the " Metaphysical
College of Massachusetts " 1—"Wandering between two worlds "—thus
has a poet described the present attitude of the spirit of man ;—
Wandering between two worlds, one dead,
The other powerless to be born.
The words spoken of human faith in its wider bearings are
eminently true of the special form of faith necessary for psycho
therapeutics. We have discovered that faith will heal ; our difficulty
is to find something in which to have faith. For the patient must in
some way picture to himself the agency which is to effect his cure.
He once pictured to himself the mesmeric effluence, and whether that
effluence were there or no, the cure often came. He has now been
taught to distrust mesmeric effluence, and nothing has been given to
him in which to believe in its stead. He is ready to pin his faith upon
great hypnotising physicians. But he finds these very physicians dis
claiming special powers, maintaining that hypnotic sleep is ordinary
sleep, and that " there is nothing in hypnotism but the name." If
indeed, they succeed in hypnotising him, their negative theories do not,
208 Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
perhaps, check the result. But in his habitual waking state he is now
simply advised to practise self-suggestion, and for the ordinary patient
this is not enough. Charlatans step in and occupy the empty field.
Wild theories, as we have seen, are invented. The new faith is power
less to be born.
And in the meantime that faith which the poet counted as dead,—
which science is apt to pass by unheeding,—is living and efficacious
still. It is not really with Roman Catholic doctrines alone that we
have to do at Lourdes. That great Church under whose wing these
pilgrims are sheltered still represents the hopes, the fears, the creeds
of a thousand generations of rude and ancient men. Lying for
centuries beneath her deeps, those primitive symbols have " suffered a
sea-change Into something rich and strange " ;—but each element of
the mystery of Lourdes—dark grotto and sacred spring, neuvaine and
dream and apparition—carries us back to primitive memories and a
simple and pagan Past. Here is once more the oxd/ia -fit,—the
earth-mouth of the old Chthonian worship, with its hidden fountain
where Earth the izparrofLavrit herself uttered her healing oracles, or
poured her virtue through divinities of later birth ;—as at Acharaca.
through the Kdpij,—the Virgin of the underworld. Around that grotto,
too, the votaries gathered in their navfiyvpis,—a gathering half fair, half
pilgrimage,—and sought in thousands the god-sent life-renewing power.
And in later days, when the Heroes—the Saints of Hellenic faith,—
began to be more widely worshipped, the Asklepeia of Epidaurus,
of Cos, of Pergamus, give us examples of the impassioned expectation,
the critical moment, the sudden cure. There, too, on every side were
the public thanksgivings, the votive offerings ;—and sometimes after
the solemn "incubation," (represented now by the neuvaine of
prayer), the rare " theophany," like the Lourdes apparition, would add
its consecrating assurance to the healing shrine. At Rome itself there
was an Asklepeion which augurs consulted without a smile. There, too,
as the ex voto tablets still tell us,1 " the blind Gaius touched the altar,
and then his eyes, and saw, and gave thanks before all men " ; and the
phthisical Lucius " took ashes from the altar, and mixed them with
wine, and laid them on his side, and was healed of that disease, and the
multitude rejoiced with him."
All these things the newer Rome has received and transfigured ; and
with them much of emotion which the world cannot lightly lose ;—
the succouring comradeship of deified natures,—HSrakles, Trophonius,
Asklepius, Amphiaraus,—the sense of the nearness, the benignity, of
heroic and enfranchised souls. We seem to see the great Church, like-
Nile after the rout of Actium, " spreading broad her breast, and with
1 Inscrr. ap. Bouch^-Leclereq, Hist. Div. III., p. 298.
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. 209
her whole robe summoning the conquered into her sea-blue bosom
and her shadowy stream."
Pandentemque sinus et tota veste vocantem
Cceruleum in gremium latebrosaque flumina victos.
But dare we press the parallel further, and say that in Science we
have an Actian Apollo, armed not only with darts that pierce through
error but with rays that illumine things to come ? Can any new faith, as
absolute, as reverent as the old, guide, like the old, its votaries to
healing of body as well as soul 1
Absolute as the old the new faith might perhaps become if
psychological therapeutics should win their assured place by the side
of physiological ; if it should be recognised that here, too, our appeal is
made to no chance caprice or uncertain favour, but to inflexible and
eternal Law. Then, perhaps, the most scientific man would be the
most confident, and it would be the sign of wisdom to seek self-healing
with the directness of a child. Or is it possible that something beyond
mere logical conviction may be needed for the profounder cure ; that
the self-healing must needs be felt to depend ultimately on something
behind and above the Self ? It may be that the inmost effort must
still be a religious one, and that to change man deeply it needs a touch
upon that mainspring deep in man. What, then, for such a purpose,
must the religion of science mean 1 It must mean at least the ancient
acceptance of the Universe as good, the ancient sense of the individual
effort as co-operant with a vaster Power. If science can regain this
sense for man she may do with him what she will. For she will have
united "with the wonder-solving analysis the wonder-working faith, and
with the wisdom of the children of this world the wisdom of the
children of light.
p
Supplement,l 211
Notices of Boolc8.
SUPPLEMENT.
NOTICES OF BOOKS.
Der Rapport in der Hypnose. Untersnchmu/eii iiber den Thierischeu
Magnetismus. Von Dr. Med. Albert Moll, in Berlin. A. Abel,
Leipzig, 1892, pp. 242.
Dr. Moll promised us in his well-known work on Hypnotism a special
study of the phenomena of rapport, and he has given us an exceedingly
solid and valuable piece of work. He records an elaborate series of
experiments, often most ingenious, carried out by himself with the aid
of several friends, amongst whom Dr. Max Dessoir and Herr Colonie-
Director Sellin were his most constant colleagues.
Dr. Moll directs his inquiry to the problem of the nature of the
influence exercised by the hypnotiser. The original mesmerists held that
this took place through the medium of some special force effluent from
the body of the agent, and directed to that of the patient by the mesmeric
passes by which sleep was at first always induced.
Under the surprise produced by discoveries in electricity and magnetism,
which happened to coincide in time with the first appearance of Mesmer,
this fluid received the name of Animal Magnetism, though it does not
seem that any serious attempt was ever made to prove its relation to
the magnetism of the physical laboratory. Dr. Moll then sets himself
to test this theory ; in other words, to find out whether the hypnotic influence
is physical or psychical. The stress which advocates of animal magnetism
have laid on the phenomena of rapport, as proof of a peculiar connexion
between agent and patient not explicable by mere suggestion, shows that
it is here that the theory can be most successfully approached.
Rapport itself, however, on the most superficial inquiry, turns out to be
by no means easy of clear conception. Like all else in the domain of
hypnotism, it is a most Protean phenomenon, irregular alike in its appearance
and in its symptoms. That it is frequently found in a most marked form is
known to every one who has seen the commonest experiments ; the hypno
tised person is often, to all appearance, absolutely irresponsive to any stimulus,
however violent, applied by any other than the original hypnotiser. But in
many other cases there is no sign of such rapport ; the person hypnotised
may be perfectly suggestible by anyone, and will answer anyone as well as
the operator. Between these two states there are an infinite number forming
a gradual transition. But for practical purposes Dr. Moll divides rapport
into two divisions : that where the subject does not ignore other persons,
though motor suggestions are accepted from the hypnotiser only ; and that
where others are in no way recognised. The latter he speaks of as " isolated
rapport."
But his experiments show that even in this deeper stage the rapport is
not really isolated ; though no reaction to any ordinary stimulus is to be
p 2
212 [Supplement.
Notices of Books.
seen, yet he proves in the most conclusive manner that the subject is really
sensitive to the words and actions of others than the hypnotiser. To begin
with, he finds that rapport can be transferred without any suggestion on the
part of the hypnotiser, even in the apparently deepest stage ; not indeed
universally, for no general rules as to the behaviour of the hypnotised can be
laid down, but in a large number of cases. Transference can be obtained
by repeated verbal suggestion from a third party, even if for a
considerable time it seems to be ignored ; but a better method is continued
tactile stimulus, especially such as is provided by mesmeric passes. The
transference can take place even while the hypnotiser engages the subject in
continuous conversation, but then it is much slower than if the third person
is left to engage his attention undisturbed.
It is not, however, to be concluded that there is, as the "mesmerists"
would have us believe, any special virtue in these passes. A whole series
of experiments was directed to this point. Perhaps the most decisive
were those in which two persons hypnotised the subject simultaneously,
one by verbal suggestion, after the Nancy method, the other by passes.
In these cases it was impossible to say beforehand which of the two
operators would obtain the rapport. Sometimes both did so, sometimes
it was produced by the passes, sometimes by the simple suggestion. It
may be remarked in passing that neither Dr. Moll, nor I believe the French
hypnotists, seem to have come across the disagreeable phenomena which
we have been accustomed to associate with " cross mesmerism," though
they do not hesitate to place a subject under the influence of two operators
in immediate succession, or even, as here, at the same time.
Generally speaking, rapport is to a great extent a matter of hypnotic
education. It is comparatively rare at a first sitting and increases afterwards.
Transference of rapport is most easily obtained by those who have frequently
hypnotised the subject previously. But it often appears in an apparently
arbitrary manner. For instance, Dessoir is mesmerising the subject while
Moll is holding his hand in order to feel the pulse. When sleep has been
produced, it is found that Moll and not Dessoir has the rapport. Experi
ment 63 is an interesting one. " X is put to sleep by Dessoir with mesmeric
passes. Moll can get rapport by laying his hands for some time on X's
head ; so can others, who are present, by means of pressure on his forehead,
temples, or other parts of his body. X is now awakened and again sent to
sleep by Dessoir, after the following experiment has been agreed on in
another room. Dessoir and Moll stand together behind X, who, as appears
on questioning, is in rapport with Dessoir alone. Dessoir lays his hands on
X's head and at the same time Moll asks him how he feels. The question
is immediately answered, though Moll has not touched X and had no rapport
with him before." Evidently X believed that Moll's hand was on his
head. So again in 65. "X had on previous occasions been hypnotised
by Moll for the sake of some electrical experiments in which he had
to hold a large electrode. X is on this occasion in rapport with Dessoir
alone, who has hypnotised him. Moll gives him the electrode to hold,
though without any current passing through it. He immediately comes into
rapport with Moll, though he does not lose that which he previously had
with Dessoir." Here rapport is the result of association of ideas. Then
Supplement.l 213
Notices of Books.
in 68. " While Dessoir is standing in front of X, apparently with the
intention of mesmerising him, X's eyes are bandaged. Sellin then silently
takes Dessoir's place, and makes the passes till X is asleep. It is then
found that Dessoir and not Sellin is in rapport with X. " This is clearly
mistaken self-suggestion.
These experiments, and many others like them, all point convincingly to
the conclusion that rapport is not a physical but a psychical phenomenon ;
that it is produced not by any action of an effluence from the operator,
magnetic or otherwise, but by the action of the subject's own mind,
obedient to suggestions whether received externally or spontaneously
generated. It is natural to conclude that rapport is no more than a con
centration of attention on the operator, an exaggerated case of the state of
mind which in its different degrees we know in ordinary life as reverie,
abstraction, "absence of mind," and so on. This supposition is raised
almost to a certainty by a further series of most important experiments,
which prove that even in a state of what seems to be completely isolated
rapport the subject is still accessible to stimuli coming from other sources.
These stimuli are received and noted by the " subconsciousness " which
persists in the hypnotic as well as in the waking state ; and by means of
various artifices Dr. Moll has succeeded in demonstrating the fact. Perhaps
the most striking instance is that given in Experiment 100. " Y is hypno
tised and only answers the hypnotiser Dessoir. Moll can obtain no reply.
Moll now gives the command, several times repeated : ' Y, in two minutes
you will rise from your chair ; an irresistible force will oblige you to go to
the door and knock at it ; you will then return to your place and go to sleep
again.' The command is executed. While Y is still talking to Dessoir he
rises and does what he was told after about two minutes. When Dessoir asks
what he has just done, he replies that he has got up from his chair. lie can
give no satisfactory answer to the question why he did so. Y still gives no
reply to Moll's questions ; he is evidently in isolated rapport with Dessoir."
The analogy in this case to what is so often observed in the post-hypnotic
execution of commands is pointed out by Moll, and must indeed strike
every student. But it seems to show something more than Moll indicates ;
namely, that there is not a duplication but a triplication of personality to be
observed. In the ordinary rapport of hypnosis the self which is sub
conscious to the normal self receives and carries out the command. Here
it is a self which is subconscious to this subconscious self again. It is in
fact analogous to the deeper stratum which was demonstrated by Gurney in
his well-known experiments on the trains of memory in different hypnotic
states. In this connexion it is well to mention Experiment 164. Here the
subject is consecutively hypnotised and awoke by four experimenters, each
of whom suggests to him a different scene. Subsequently it appears that,
when hypnotised by them again, he remembers only the scene which was
suggested to him by the operator with whom he is at the time in rapport.
But it is by means of automatic writing that Moll has been able to test
most conclusively this subconscious, or rather sub-subconscious state. It
is only rarely that a suggestion given by a third party is carried out as in
Experiment 100. But even when the subject shows no sign of recognising
the suggestion it can often be proved by automatic writing that he was not
214 [Supplement.
Notices of Books.
entirely unconscious of it. Experiment 141 will serve as an instance, the
more instructively because the stimulus applied was not in the nature of an
urgent command. X is in rapport with Dessoir. Moll takes from him a book
which he is holding loosely in his hand and puts it behind a sofa in front of
X. When Dessoir asks X about the book, he is astonished to miss it, and
supposes that it must have fallen out of his hand, but can say no more. He
searches for it without finding it ; he cannot think where it is, though urged
to do so by Dessoir. When told to write automatically where the book is he
writes, while conversing with Dessoir, " Dr. Moll took the book from me,
and put it behind the sofa." It would be interesting to repeat these
experiments with crystal-seeing in place of automatic writing for the test.
The importance of the book for the study of hypnotism is obvious ; it is
most suggestive as well as cogent. For instance, it makes one think of a
whole series of experiments which should throw light on negative hallucina
tions. In my own experience I have seen transference of rapport obtained
with a few passes by a person whose presence the subject absolutely ignored
in obedience to a negative suggestion.
Dr. Moll's last chapter is devoted to matters such as the " mesmerisation
of objects. " He tried to obtain mental suggestion ; but his results here were
entirely negative. It is, however, gratifying to find that he does not
therefore conclude that the subject is unworthy of serious investigation. In
the mesmerisation of objects he found that the subject could by tasting tell
out of a number of glasses of water the one which had been "magnetised,"
with a succoss far beyond chance ; but he gives good reason for supposing that
this was really done through a hyperaesthetic recognition of a taste which had
been imparted by the manipulations used. It seems indeed highly probable
that the senses both of taste and smell can be by concentration of attention
raised to a pitch of acuteness which requires very serious consideration in all
inquiries such as these.
We have to thank not only Dr. Moll but his colleagues for a book
remarkable for sobriety, acumen, and patient search for truth. The entire
absence of sensationalism and it must be confessed the dryness of the style
are likely to rob it of much of the attention which it deserves to receive ; but
they cannot detract from its value as a scientific investigation.
Walter Leaf.
PtychUogie der Stiggestion. Von Dr. Phil. Hans Schmiwcunz, Privat-
docent der Philosophie an der Universitat Munchen. Mit
Aerztlich-Psychologischen Erganzungen von Dr. Franz Carl
Gerster, Praktischer Arzt in Munchen. Stuttgart : Enke, 1892,
pp. xii., 424.
One is always reluctant to begin a review of an obviously serious and able
book with a confession that one has been unable to understand it ; but it is
certain that, whether from my own inability to grasp so profound a subject
as transcendental psychology, or possibly from some want of lucidity in the
author's presentation of it, I have not succeeded in following his arguments
well enough to form an approximately clear idea of his position as a whole.
His main thesis, however, seems to be this. Modern psychology since
Supplement.l 215
Notices of Books.
Berkeley has on the whole followed an entirely false track in regarding the
Psyche as a tabula rasa, a purely receptive and passive organism, partly the
product of heredity, but for the rest built up by the successive effects of
sensations. It is on the contrary above all an assemblage of energies. All
psychical phenomena are dynamic ; sensations, ideas, judgments, will, are
alike in the fact that they have the power of mutual interaction, by which
they generate the infinite complex of the actual Psyche. Whether behind
these phenomena there is "an X," a psychical energy in itself, is a further
question, to which the author himself seems to have no hesitation in giving
an affirmative answer. Association is no more than an expression of the
influence which any psychical phenomenon has on any other phenomena
nearly related to it.
The energy of psychical phenomena exhibits itself particularly in two
ways, on which all suggestion ultimately depends : in the persistence of
ideas and in the tendency of all ideas to external realisation of themselves.
A further instance of this energy is to be found in the feelings of repulsion
and attraction which the contents of ideas are able to cause us. These feel
ings are primary and not to be analysed. Psychical energies are like
gunpowder, latent forces always ready to become active if a trigger is pulled.
Suggestion is the pulling of the trigger.
The associative energy of ideas is continually tending to make groups.
When any object of sensation affects the Psyche in such a way as to give
such a temporary group disproportionate prominence, we have a suggestion.
The object in question may be an idea within the Psyche itself ; then we
speak of self-suggestion. Or the idea may be aroused by an external
inanimate object ; in this case Schmidkunz calls it an object-suggestion. Or
finally it may be an idea impirted by another mind ; this is known as
Fremdstiggestion. In all cases, as a corresponding idea must be called up
in the Psyche itself in order to affect its state of aggregation or disaggrega
tion, auto-suggestion is at least an intermediate step. Still, the question
whether an individual is more accessible to internal or external suggestion is
one which leads to a marked division of mankind. At the extremes of the two
classes Gerster, Schmidkunz's colleague—to whom, be it said, the book owes
a large number of pregnant and fertile thoughts—sets two opposed phases of
hysteria. The one class, whom he calls " Hysteriker I.," are paycho-
neurotically affected, and exhibit rapid and intense corporeal reaction to
external suggestion ; such are Charcot's subjects. The other, "Hysteriker II.,"
are psychopathic, subject to their auto-suggestions, but possessing thereby
an almost complete immunity against external suggestion, and therefore not
to be hypnotised.
But, for reasons which I have already stated, I shall not attempt to give
any more extended review of the system as a whole, and will confine myself
to a few points which may have especial interest to readers of the Proceedings.
They will probably be surprised to hear that Schmidkunz has little or nothing
to say about the phenomena of automatism, and dismisses the subliminal self
in a passing rejection of Max Dessoir's "Doppel-ich" as unsatisfactory. He
would apparently explain, e.g., automatic writing thus : The pencil placed
in the hand acts as an " object-suggestion " which calls into being a certain
train of associated ideas connected with writing, and having the innate
216 [Supplement.
Notices of Books.
tendency to realise themselves. Their action being unchecked by the will,
they form themselves into a group dissociated from the rest of the mental
organism, and may so far be regarded as a temporary second self that they
carry with them the related power of judgment, and thus are capable
of showing a logical sequence of thought. But one would certainly have
looked for a fuller discussion of these phenomena.
Thought-transference, on the other hand, he says, has been amply proved
by our Society. He is only disposed to question whether it needs proof at
all ; whether on his dynamical theory it is not a matter of course, and its
absence is not the abnormality which needs to be established. The view is
not one which we in England are prepared to accept for working purposes ;
but the book contains a passage which is of such practical interest to
us that I do not hesitate to translate it nearly in full. It is from a letter
written to the author by Dr. Wetterstrand, of Stockholm, the eminent
hypnotic practitioner.
" I have recently seen a striking instance of mental suggestion, and I no
longer have any doubt in the existence of direct thought-transference
from one human being to another. I have at the present moment under
treatment a lady aged 33 who has slept for three weeks without intermission.
By fixed thought I can send her to sleep from my house and wake her up
again ; I can make her execute a prescribed movement, and when I ask her
why she did so, she always replies, ' Because you will it.' I have made her
get up in a state of sleep from her own room and come to mine, and when
asked ' Why did you get up ? ' she answered, ' Because you will it.' For me
direct thought-transference is now a proved fact, which I have hitherto
doubted, but now have seen. ... If you know a good somnambule,
let him sleep for a week on end, and thought - transference gradually
develops. This continued sleep, which I have now tried four times,
particularly in a case of morphinomania, which I have discussed in the Rerme
de VHypnotisms for Nov., 1890 (Sur lt Traitement de la Morphinomanie par
VHypnotism*), entails no danger. The patients eat and do everything as
well in the sleeping as in the waking state, and in many complaints such
prolonged sleep has an extraordinary effect in restoration to health. I have
recently received a letter from my friend Dr. Ltebeault, of Nancy, in which
he says that he is in a position to prove, as he will do in the forthcoming
second part of his work on Sleep and Analogous States, that there is a ' force
neurique d'hommes a hommes.' How is this thought-transference to be
explained 1 "
Dr. Wetterstrand's experiment has obvious difficulties ; will it not be
possible to get over these and try it 1
Walter Leaf.
Per lo Spiritismo. 2a Edizione, Biveduta ed AmpliatA. Prof. Anqelo
Brofferio. Milano : D. Briola, 1893, pp. 364.
Eusapia Palladino, the peasant woman of Naples, is having a deep and
growing influence on thought in the Italian peninsula. The extraordinary
Supplement.l 217
Notices of Books.
manifestations which she produces as medium have been vouched for by
numerous observers of the highest standing, among them by no less men than
Lombroso and Schiaparelli, who, among other things, have seen a large article
•of furniture move through the room in full light without the contact of any
human hand. Lombroso has avowed his full belief in the genuineness of the
phenomena, and in the existence of an occult force which produces them.
But he has not admitted the Spiritist hypothesis, and goes no farther than
a psychic force exercised by the unconscious self of the medium.
Professor Brofferio, himself converted by what seems to have been a
careful series of experiments made with Eusapia, accepts heartily the full
theory of Spiritism and has joined issue with all its opponents. But, as he is
convinced of the facts and therefore sure that they will in the end have to be
admitted, it is chiefly with the interpretation of them that he deals. His
book is in the main an attack upon the psychic force school, in which he
recognises the most dangerous enemy of Spiritism. He has in fact written a
popular counterpart to AksakofFs Animismus und tipiritismits (see Pro
ceedings, XVII., 665). In liveliness and to some extent in persuasiveness, he
has the advantage of Aksakoff, in spite of a somewhat excessive tendency
to repetition. He has, too, a good knowledge of the literature of the subject,
though of course he cannot pretend to AksakofTs exhaustive acquaintance
with the evidence. And his obvious honesty and fairness are not one whit
behind those of his Russian leader. But in thoroughness and logical
consistency he stands rather below him than above. He has more of the
clever advocate, and would doubtless have more chance of persuading a
jury ; but he has far less of the philosopher.
It is especially in his treatment of the unconscious self of the medium
(Vincosciente del medio) that this weakness shows itself. The Italian phrase
is neat and compact, but it has perhaps some tendency to mislead. In
spite of the teaching of all recent inquiries, Brofferio still argues that the
phenomena cannot be due to Vincosciente del medio because they contradict
the conscious wishes and convictions of the medium, or involve the exercise
of a reasoning power which may even transcend that of which the normal
medium seems capable. Prof. Brofferio would have been less likely to fall
into an error such as this if he had been in the habit of thinking not so
much of an unconscious as of a subconscious or subliminal self. By post
hypnotic suggestion we have no difficulty in producing automatic writing
precisely such as Brofferio would have to be the work of the dead ; what
reason is there to doubt that the same result may be obtained by the
medium's own self-suggestion ? Take, too, the case of apports, material
objects brought into a closed room, or created in one, where they did not
exist before. Brofferio says that such a fact implies the existence of a
knowledge and an art ; a knowledge whether of a fourth dimension of space,
or of the constitution of the ether by which it can be formed into matter, or
whatever theory we may prefer ; and the art of making practical use of such
knowledge. And, he says, it is extravagant to suppose that so exalted a
skill can exist in the mind of the medium, entirely unknown to the normal
•consciousness. Surely all that we have learnt of automatism entitles us to
say that such a supposition is by no means absurd. It at least claims to be
left an open question. What man is there with so profound a knowledge of
218 [Supplement.
Notices of Books.
physiology that he can tell exactly how a blister on the skin is produced ?
Yet we have learnt that the subconsciousness is able to produce it. It
follows that in each of us there exists a knowledge of the processes of our
own most subtle structure, and a power of commanding it, of which our
normal state has not the least inkling. Assuming that, on the facts as
stated, some intelligence has a similar power over the ether, or whatever it may
be, why should not that intelligence exist within the brain of what we call
the medium, equally unsuspected in its capacities and processes f Indeed,
Brofferio's arguments would lead to the conclusion, at which he himself
seems to hint, that all automatism of an intelligent nature is the work of
the spirits of the dead ; for it all comes from some intelligence of which we
are not conscious except in its results. He is in fact far too prone to argue
that the statement of the intelligence itself that it pertains to some dead
person is to be taken as a presumption of its own truth ; a line of reasoning
in which I think few careful thinkers with the evidence before them will
care to follow him. And even though these communications do generally
announce themselves as coming from the dead, it must not be forgotten
that they do not always do so ; Professor Brofferio would do well to carefully
study the evidence of Mrs. Newnham's planchette in Proceedings, VIII., 10.
Their general agreement is perfectly intelligible as auto-suggestion arising
from the common tendency to believe in the return of the departed.
But, though I cannot follow Brofferio in all his arguments, I willingly
acknowledge that, unlike many Spiritists, he takes eminently rational
ground. A controversy between him and Lombroso cannot fail to do much
to attract general attention to the subject in Italy, whence we may hope for
large contributions alike to the evidence and the theory of supernormal
phenomena. Walter Leaf.
(1) Experiences de Milan ; Notes de M. Charles Richet ; (2) Rapport de
la Commission reunie a Milanpour VEtude des Pheiwmhies Psychiques.
Both being Articles in the Annales des Sciences Psychiques.
Troisieme annee. No. 1—Janvier-Fevrier, 1893. Paris: Felix Alcan.
During last autumn a Committee, amongst whom were M. Schiaparelli,
Director of the Astronomical Observatory at Milan, Professor Gerosa,
Professor Brofferio, and M. Aksakoff, held a series of sittings at Milan with
a "physical medium," Mme. Eusapia Palladino, of that town. Professor
Lombroso and Professor C. Richet were present at some of the meetings,
and a statement by the latter of his own observations is published together
with the formal report of the Committee in the Jan.-Feb. number of
the Annates des Sciences Psychiques. The phenomena observed were of a
kind familiar to all students of Spiritualistic literature : tilting and levita-
tion of tables and other movements of furniture ; alteration of the weight
of the medium in the balance ; raps ; and the appearance and contact of hands
in the dark, or in semi-obscurity. That the reports now under discussion
deserve more respectful consideration than the innumerable accounts of
similar manifestations which have appeared in overwhelming abundance
Supplement.l 219
Notices of Books.
during the last 40 years, is due not so much to the fact (though that is
entitled to some weight) that the medium has not been detected in fraud, as
to the high scientific standing of the witnesses, and the obvious care and
freedom from prepossession with which their observations have for the most
part been made and recorded.
The most striking phenomena, and those which presented, apparently,
the best opportunity for excluding fraud, since they took place in full light,
were the levitation of the table, and the alteration of the medium's weight in
the balance. The table was a common kitchen-table, with four legs, 3 ft. 8 in.
long, by 2 ft. 4 in. wide, and weighing about 17 lb. Professor Richet,
who has witnessed the levitation of the table on several occasions, describes
it as follows : " Eusapia, seated at one end of the table, gave her right hand
to one of the investigators, and her left hand to another. Usually in the
experiments at which I assisted, M. Schiaparelli held her right hand, and I
held her left. The other persons stood more or less aloof, so that the two
table legs at the end farthest from Eusapia could be seen, and the two at her
end of the table, and between which she had placed her legs, knees and feet,
were visible all, or almost all, the time.
"After various movements, during which there were partial liftings, now of
one foot, now of another, the table was suddenly lifted up, all four feet being
raised slightly from the ground, from about 3 to 5 inches. But in several
instances (when there was little or no light) it seemed to me that the table
legs were lifted off the ground to a height of from 8 to 10 inches. This only
lasted for a short time, difficult to estimate, but which I take to have been
about one or two seconds. Nevertheless, on one occasion, at the second
seance, the table appeared to me to be raised from the ground for about 3
seconds, with a sort of swaying, rocking motion in the air. The room was
lighted during the experiments."
The light in some cases was sufficiently good to allow of photographs
being taken. A copy of one photograph, appended to Professor Richet's
article, shows the table suspended horizontally some inches above the floor,
whilst Eusapia's hands were held, on the surface of the table, by Professors
Richet and Lombroso respectively, the former having his other hand pressed
on the medium's knees, and his left foot in contact with one of her feet.
Two other members of the Committee were watching the proceedings at a
little distance from the table.
In discussing the possible mechanical explanations of the movement,
Professor Richet adduces strong arguments for concluding that it could not
have been lifted by any mechanism, or by the knees or hands of the medium.
There remains the hypothesis that the movement was effected by the feet—or
one foot, placed under one of the legs, and aided by the pressure of the
hands on the top of the table. That this is extremely improbable is
shown by several considerations. One or other of the experimenters on
several occasions held his hand on the medium's knees during the experiment,
but no movement of them was observed ; one foot of the sitter on either
side was, as he in each case believed, in contact with one foot of the medium ;
and had Eusapia's foot been placed under a leg of the table, the table could
only have been raised altogether from the floor by the exercise of consider
able pressure above the table ; and whilst no indication was observed of any
220 [Supplement.
Notices of BooJcs.
such pressure being exerted, the Committee add that they were unable to
credit Eusapia with the possession of the muscular force required. On the other
hand it is pointed out that the levitation of the table appears to have been
generally preceded by a puffing out (gonfler) of Eusapia's dress until it
touched and partially covered one foot of the table ; and that when contact
of the dress with the table was prevented the experiment failed. Further,
the experiment also failed when Eusapia and the experimenters stood upright ;
and she refused to try the experiment sitting at one of the longer sides of
the table, or with a pasteboard screen placed round her dress so as absolutely
to cut off all possibility of contact with the table. Professor Richet, there
fore, with characteristic scrupulousness sums up :—
"The hypothesis that Eusapia lifted the table with her feet is not
absurd, and perhaps however improbable such an hypothesis may seem we
should accept it sooner than the absurdity of a table lifted without mechanical
force. Indeed, in no case have I seen the four feet of the table all raised
from the ground, when both Eusapia's feet were so placed as to render
deception impossible, or when the four feet of the table could be seen
distinctly free from contact with Eusapia's feet."
The Committee, it should be added, attempted to perform the feat of
raising the table from the ground under the conditions imposed upon
Eusapia, and failed to do so.
The experiment in which the weight of the medium in a balance presented
unaccountable variations exhibits, unfortunately, precisely analogous defects.
The weight on several occasions was observed gradually to increase or diminish
—the variation in one instance being as much as 21 lb. on either side of the
normal weight. One occasion is thus described by Professor Richet :—
"Eusapia, seated on a chair, was placed on the platform of a weighing
machine and her feet were strongly bound together by a handkerchief. One
of us, M. Finzi, was told off to read the weight. M. Schiaparelli and I
employed ourselves in watching closely the balance and its surroundings, so
as to be sure that Eusapia did not touch with hand or foot the ground or
any object in the neighbourhood.
"Her weight with the chair being 58 kilogrammes (nearly 128 lb. or over
9 stone), we placed on the scale 500 grammes at a point where it would be
equivalent to 50 kilogrammes, and then the rider was placed at the figure 8.
Eusapia's weight was thus exactly balanced. Then, though Eusapia did not
move her chair, we had, in order to maintain equilibrium, to shift the rider,
first to 6, then to 4, then to 2, and finally to zero, and further, to obtain
exact equilibrium it would have been necessary to take away a little of the
weight of 500 grammes which represented 50 kilogrammes. It will be seen,
therefore, that Eusapia diminished her weight in this experiment by at least
8 kilogrammes (17£ lb.). We are certain that she threw nothing away (if
she had thrown anything away she would have had to recover it in order to
restore her original weight), and equally certain that she derived no support
from any neighbouring object. And finally, the movement was sufficiently
slow—it occupied from 12 to 20 seconds—to make it impossible to attribute
it to a jump or quick movement of any kind. Nevertheless, the observation
did not appear to us conclusive. In brief, in the ordinary weighing machine,
constructed on the principle of the steelyard, the weight varies (although it
Supplement.l 221
Notices of Books.
is true within very narrow limits) with the position of the centre of gravity.
By changing his position on the platform, especially when, as was the case
here, the machine is not a very good one, the person who is being weighed
can appreciably vary his weight.
'' We devised accordingly a weighing machine of a different kind, in which
the platform was suspended by the four corners. In this machine the
weight would show no variation, whatever the position of the sitter on the
platform. An automatic arrangement devised by M. Finzi registered the
movements of the lever. In the fifth sitting we obtained a result which was
certainly remarkable, seeing that it occurred under exceptionally good
conditions. M. Schiaparelli and I were watching the machine both above
and below, so as to be sure that Eusapia did not touch either the ground, or
the support from which the platform was hung.
"Under these conditions, there was certainly a slight upward movement of
the platform, but it was very trifling ; and although the automatic register
indicated a marked diminution in the weight, lasting for about 15 seconds, I
cannot say for certain that this movement of the register did not occur at the
moment when Eusapia, in order to gain more strength, asked one of the
investigators to give her his hand, which she held for a short time before
relinquishing."
The Committee, however, point out that this experiment succeeded only
when part of Eusapia's dress touched the floor, and that when precautions
were taken to prevent this contact no appreciable effect was produced
on the balance. On one occasion, indeed, when the balance was placed
at a distance of more than 10 inches behind Eusapia, and her hands, feet, and
knees were held, a rider, apparently in response to an energetic movement
on the part of Eusapia, oscillated violently on the beam, as if some weight
had been thrown into the scale. But this effect was never repeated. The
observed alteration in the weight of the medium, was, of course, far too
great to be accounted for by the mere contact of part of her dress with the
floor ; but so long as this and other sources of error cannot be eliminated,
the evidence for some new physical force must, as Professor Richet points
out, be considered incomplete.
Other phenomena—tilting of the table on two legs, lateral movements of
the table when the hands of the medium were not in direct contact with it,
movement of chairs, raps and noises of various kinds—occurred also in the
light ; but in no instance were the conditions more favourable or the evidence
more complete than in the experiments above described.
Manifestations of various kinds occurred when the room was darkened or
partially darkened, each person holding the hand of his neighbour, so as to
form a chain. But here, again to quote Professor Richet :—
" During the experiments Eusapia generally has the right and the left hand
held differently. On one side her whole hand is firmly held ; on the other
side, instead of having her hand held by the person next her, she merely
places her hand on his, but touches his hand with all five fingers, so that he
can feel quite distinctly whether it is the right or the left hand with which
he is in contact.
" This is what follows : At the moment when the manifestations are about
to begin, the hand which is not being held, but which is lightly placed on
222 (Supplement.
Notices of Boolcs.
the hand of the person on that side (for the sake of simplicity we will
suppose that it is Eusapia's right hand, though it is in fact sometimes the
right, sometimes the left), the right hand, then, becomes very unsteady,
and begins to move about so rapidly that it is impossible to follow its move
ments ; it shifts about every moment, and for the mere fraction of a second
it is not felt at all ; then it is felt again, and one could swear it is still the
right hand."
Records of phenomena occurring under such conditions can hardly be
thought to add much strength to the evidence already obtained, even though
they included such feats as the lifting of Eusapia and her chair bodily on to
the table ; the touching of those present with a hand which in some cases
appeared larger than the hand of the medium ; the appearance of ftro hands
against the faintly luminous background of the window ; the discovery of
finger marks on paper previously prepared with lamp-black, though the hands
of the medium at the end of the sitting were found to be perfectly clean ;
and the removal of M. Schiaparelli's spectacles, performed in complete
darkness, and with such care that he was unconscious of his loss until the
operation was actually completed.
In a further set of experiments, however, it seems clear that the effects
produced were beyond the unaided resources of the medium. A portion of
the room was curtained off from the rest, and the medium placed in the
aperture of the curtains, which were joined a little above her head. The space
curtained off was left in absolute darkness, but the rest of the room was
dimly lighted by a lantern with red glass sides, placed on the table round
which sat the medium and the experimenters. On one occasion Professor
Richet himself took up his station in the darkened part of the room, behind
the curtains, his chair placed back to back with that on which Eusapia sat.
The medium's hands were held on either side by M. Schiaparelli and M.
Finzi, and the latter's stocking-clad foot was placed between the two booted
feet of Eusapia. Under these circumstances M. Richet was touched three
times on various parts of the body. Then, he writes,
" At one moment she became rigid and said, ' Hold me tight, hold me tight,'
upon which M. Schiaparelli on one side and M. Finzi on the other held her
with all their strength. M. Gerosa took notes. I said to M. Finzi : ' Are
you holding her left hand?' He replied, 'Yes.' I then asked M.
Schiaparelli, ' Are you holding her right hand 1 ' He replied, ' Yes. ' Then
I again asked M. Finzi, 'Are you holding both her feet?' He replied,
' Yes.' Then on turning my head slightly to the left I saw something was
preparing, by the fact that the curtain was bulging and seemed to be
approaching Eusapia, as though to make the shadow deeper. Then I was
touched on the right shoulder by a hand which seemed to me to be a right
hand (supposing it belonged to the medium). Almost at the same instant,
after Eusapia had asked me to put my head near hers, I was touched by two
fingers, which pulled with some force, but without hurting me, the hair on
the nape of my neck ; I was certain it was a hand which touched my shoulder
and neck. At the same time M. Finzi was touched on the ear, on the fore
head and on the temples by fingers which were behind the curtain, while thu
hand which touched me was free from the curtain. M. Finzi was touched
three times. The other witnesses observed no abnormal movement on
Supplement.l 223
Notices of Books.
Eusapia's part. I, who was behind her, felt nothing but a sort of general
convulsion, and that at the moment when we were watching most attentively,
and when M. Schiaparelli on one side and M. Finzi on the other held
Eusapia's hands firmly, and could distinguish which hand they held, right or
left. This experiment seemed thoroughly satisfactory, and I hardly
see how one could take exception to it. M. Schiaparelli did not let go
Eusapia's right hand ; on the other side M. Finzi could not let go her left
hand ; for he had put his fingers in the copper wire which surrounded the
fingers of Eusapia's left hand. Even supposing, what is difficult to suppose,
that M. Schiaparelli had let go Eusapia's hand, it is almost impossible that
that hand, even if free, could reach and touch M. Finzi, after passing behind
the curtain—for I had my back almost touching Eusapia's, and the compli
cated movement which she would have had to make to carry her hand behind
was rendered almost, or rather, quite impossible. On the other hand it
seemed impossible for Eusapia to stretch out her hand in front, for the
shadow was not deep enough to prevent those present from seeing this move
ment had it been attempted, and besides M. Finzi was touched on the face,
through the thickness of the curtain. This is the experiment which seems to
me to offer the strongest proof of the materialisation of a hand. For unless
we suppose—which is of course admissible—a serious experimental error on
the part of M. Schiaparelli, M. Finzi or myself, one cannot see how it was
possible for Eusapia's hand to touch us under the conditions described."
On other occasions, with all the experimenters in front of the curtain,
the medium being seated as before, in the opening of the curtains, and her
hands and feet held, hands were felt by each person in turn through the
opening of the curtains just above the medium's head, and afterwards a hand
was seen by all simultaneously in the same place. Bluish lights were also
seen in the same place, and a pencil was taken from the hand of one of the
Committee, and afterwards thrown back through the opening. To quote the
Committee's report :—
" It is impossible to count the number of times that that hand appeared
and was touched by one of us ; suffice it to say that doubt was no longer
possible ; it was indeed a living, human hand which we saw and touched,
while at the same time the bust and arms of the medium remained visible
and her hands were held by those on either side of her."
Finally, some wet clay which had been placed in the dark alcove was
found at the termination of the sitting to bear the imprint of a hand.
The whole series of experiments, it should be noted, took place in the
apartments of Dr. Finzi. The Committee do not apparently hold the
question of a possible accomplice entering the room after the commencement
of the sitting as worth considering, for they say nothing about the existence
of a door in the darkened alcove, or the precautions taken to keep it closed.
From Professor Richet, however, we learn that there was such a door, and
that it was locked and sealed during the progress of the experiments. He
adds : " It is absurd to suppose that another person could have come into the
room, which is small, and was completely shut up. It was in M. Finzi's apart
ments, we were making no noise, we could light up the room instantly,
indeed there was light enough, as it was, to see its general appearance,
&c., &c."
224 [Supplement.
Notices of Books.
It will be seen from this brief survey that the experiments presented many
suspicious features. The results in every case can be paralleled more or less-
exactly by results produced through the agency of persons who have been
detected in fraud. Moreover, there were many circumstances which either
directly suggested fraud, or oifered facilities for its intervention. Such are the
darkness that was found essential for so many of the experiments ; the
movements of Eusapia's dress in the table and balance experiments ; the
twitchings and convulsive movements of her hands and her whole body ;
her groanings when exciting phenomena were taking place in the dark ; her
refusal on more than one occasion to accept conditions wchih would have
rendered fraud more difficult, and the failure of the experiment when any
such conditions were accepted and imposed. In Professor Richet's words ::
"The results degenerated as the conditions were made more stringent."
In short, seeing that Eusapia had practically an unlimited right of veto,
direct or indirect, upon the conditions, it is not accurate to speak of the re
sults recorded by the Committee as experivieiUal. The Committee did not and
could not experiment ; they were permitted to observe certain phenomena
produced in presence of the medium under conditions chosen by herself—
conditions which the Committee and M. Richet (as they are themselves
careful to point out) were unable to vary in any material point. That even
so the effects produced were such as can only be ascribed to trickery by means
of several violent and improbable hypotheses will readily be admitted. But
in all cases, it will be observed, the question between fraud and a new physical
force was only a quantitative one. It was a question in each case whether
Eusapia was strong enough, or quick enough, or clever enough, to have pro
duced the whole of the effect observed. In no case was an effect produced
which was measurably and indisputably beyond the power of any human
being in the circumstances described. That after saying so much, we should
admit that the things done remain inexplicable is the strongest tribute that
can be paid to the skill and patience of the investigators. For in this
admission is implied that we have no ground here for assuming—what
experience has shown that we are justified in assuming in most records
of similar phenomena—serious errors of observation and description on the
part of the investigators. Two precautions, indeed, it may be suggested,
would not be superfluous on any future occasion : First, that the person of
Eusapia should be searched immediately before each sitting ; and second,
that when the room is darkened the doors and windows should be guarded
from the outside. If the same phenomena could be reproduced under
these conditions, the difficulty of attributing the results to fraud would be
greatly increased ; if compliance with the conditions were refused, or if the
phenomena ceased with their adoption, the argument for a new force would
be correspondingly weakened.
The Committee, it should be added, express their conviction that the
results obtained in the light, and many of those obtained in darkness, could
not have been produced by trickery of any kind. M. Richet, who does not
sign the Committee's report, states his own conclusions more cautiously as
follows : " Absurd and unsatisfactory though they were, it seems to me very
difficult to attribute the phenomena produced to deception, conscious or
unconscious, or to a series of deceptions. Nevertheless conclusive and indis
Supplement- 1 22.">
Notice* of Books.
putable proof that there whs no fraud on Eusapia's part, or illusion on our
part, is wanting :—we must, therefore, renew our efforts to obtain such
proof." F. Podmoeb.
Spiritismo e Telepatia. Note critiche e osservazione del Professors
Augusto Tamburini, Rivista Sperimentale di Freniatria e di
Medicina Legale. Vol. XVIII. Fasc. II. August, 1892.
Professor Tamburini, at the beginning of his interesting article, remarks
upon the growing attention paid in Italy to the examination of those
phenomena which may be described generally as Spiritualistic and Tele
pathic. Members of the Society for Psychical Research will welcome all
accessions to the company of unprejudiced inquirers into these phenomena ;
more particularly when distinguished scientific attainments and high position
in the medical profession give special weight to the opinions which those
inquirers form. Professor Lombroso has long been known as a bold and
ingenious pioneer in many branches of Psychical Research ; and several
other distinguished men of science in Italy have turned their energies in
similar directions. Professor Tamburini is a noteworthy addition to the
number.
But besides the special value which attaches to the attitude of men of
scientific distinction, there are two general reasons why the extension of
psychical inquiries in Italy seems to be of special importance. In the first
place, there is some reason to think that, whether from national tempera
ment, climate, or other cause, the Southern branches of the Latin race
afford a specially good field for observation of psychical phenomena ; and in
the second place, religious orthodoxy and scientific orthodoxy are perhaps
more intolerant in Italy than in most other European countries. For this
reason more courage is required for embarking upon a course of inquiry
which is obnoxious to the Church, and is regarded with some suspicion by
men of the orthodox scientific school ; and the difficulty to be overcome
measures the strength of the interest felt by those who overcome it.
The object of Professor Tamburini's article is mainly to give information as
to the present position of the inquiries into some of the less obscure psychical
problems, in view of recent publications on the subject. Besides giving a
general view of the questions of which he treats, he contributes two cases of
telepathy which have come under his own notice. To these we shall return
later, after giving some general account of the views expressed in the
article.
The article is divided into two parts—the first dealing with Spiritualism,
the second with Telepathy.
1. Spiritualism.
The writer attaches great importance to the close examination of the
condition, mental and physical, of mediums. He calls attention to the
conclusion of Janet that the mediums belong to the neuropathic class, and
are generally characterised by hysteria, somnambulism, sensibility to
hypnotism, or, in the most marked cases, hysteria combined with
hemianp?sthesia. Professor Tamburini regrets that more care has not been
22G [Supplement.
Notices of Books.
given to observations upon these points ; and from the medical point of view
no doubt such observations may be of the greatest value. The investigators
of the phenomena produced cannot afford to neglect the study of any of the
conditions under which they take place ; but at the same time a doubt
may be permitted as to whether, with some investigators, pathological
problems have not to some extent obscured the question which for the
present is more important—namely, the question of what phenomena are
produced.
With regard to the phenomena, Professor Tamburini deals first with
Table Tilting and Automatic Writing. He accepts the verdict of all
competent observers that imposture is inadmissible as a general explanation,
and endorses the view that the muscular action which causes the movements
of the table or the pencil is produced by the subliminal consciousness. The
subdivision of personality, and the intelligent action of the subliminal
consciousness are fully accepted by the writer. He explains the definite and
varying characters of the supposed authors of the messages as the result of
self-suggestion. As by hypnotic or post-hypnotic suggestion a subject may
be made to think he is Napoleon or a chimney-sweep, so by self-suggestion
the subliminal consciousness may be made to think that it is X or Y, and to
tilt or rap messages in the character of X or Y.
Professor Tamburini, as we have said, is mainly interested in the
modifications of normal mental action in connection with which spirit
rapping and automatic writing are produced, and does not discuss the
content of the messages so given. This is the point of the investigation
which has had the greatest interest for most English investigators. The
question which they ask is whether the messages are such as to show
knowledge on the part of the medium which could not have been acquired
by the ordinary channels of communication ; and further, if it can be estab
lished that such information has reached the medium by means not hitherto
recognised as normal, viz., without the intervention of the senses, is there
any evidence that in any cases it is derived from intelligences other than
embodied human intelligences ? Upon the first of these questions Professor
Tamburini touches to a certain extent, in the later part of the article, which
deals with telepathy ; but he does not extend his open-mindedness so far as
to admit the possibility of the Spiritualistic hypothesis. He commends
o(>enness of mind for the reception of all evidence, and quotes with approval
Professor Lodge's statement that " it is no proof of wisdom to refuse to
examine certain phenomena because we think it certain that they are im
possible, as if our knowledge of tho universe were already complete. " He
maintains the attitude of mind so indicated with the greatest consistency and
frankness—but only up to a certain point. He has nothing but contempt for
those who accept a Spiritualistic explanation of the phenomena in question
—not because he considers such an explanation disproved, but because he
thinks it so impossible and retrograde as not to require consideration.
With regard to " Physical Phenomena " his attitude is somewhat more
cautious than that of Professor Lombroso. He does not consider that the
evidence obtained by Crookes, or by the Neapolitan experiments with
Eusapia Palladino as medium—experiments in which he himself took a part.—
gives conclusive proof of the production or transmission of force in modes
Supplement. 227
Notices of Books.
other than those known to science. At the same time he fully admits that
there is strong evidence pointing in this direction ; and is prepared to grant
the possibility, or even the probability, of Lombroso's view that cerebral
movements may be transmitted by means of the "ether "to surrounding
objects, and act upon them as force, without the intervention of muscular
action.
2. Telepathy.
The second part of the article deals with Telepathy. Professor
Tamburini's verdict with regard to experimental telepathy is "not proven."
He then turns to that part of the evidence which depends upon observation,
not experiment ; and, after paying tribute to the care, perseverance, and
scientific rigour with which the telepathic cases of Phantasms of the Living
have been collected and investigated, he proceeds to classify and analyse
them, and finally to give his conclusion as to the inferences to be drawn from
this mass of evidence. There are three possible explanations, he says, of the
large number of well-attested instances of coincidental hallucinations.
(1) They may be fortuitous coincidences ; (2) they may be illusions of
memory, by which, after the event is known, the subject believes himself to
have had impressions which he did not really have ; or*(3) they may be
really telepathic. With regard to (1) he does not follow the authors of
Phantasms of the Living into their calculations of probability, but he
concludes, on general grounds, that fortuitous coincidence is extremely
improbable. With regard to (2) he justly points out that this does not
apply to the considerable number of cases in which there is evidence that the
impression was recorded by the percipient, or communicated to others before
the coincident event was known. There remains, therefore, only the third
alternative ; but upon this Professor Tamburini's final conclusion is cautious.
He considers that " all the facts collected, however conscientiously weighed
and checked, cannot be held sufficient at present to constitute a scientific
and unshaken proof of telepathic phenomena. They seem only so far serious
and worthy of consideration as to propound a problem, to the solution of
which further research and observation can alone contribute."1
It is of great interest to know the deliberate judgment of a highly
competent person upon the evidence collected thus far. Some members of the
Society for Psychical Research will no doubt think that Professor Tamburini
inclines too much to the side of caution ; but this, if a fault, is a fault on the
right side. And the result may at least be welcomed—that Professor
Tamburini has himself set about the collection of further evidence, and
1 Professor Tamburini suggests that " telaesthetic " would be a more appropriate
word than " telepathic," on the ground that thought-transference is compatible with
perfect health, and that "telepatAi'c" suggests that the percipient's condition is
" pathological," or in other words unhealthy. Without discussing the correctness of
this limited use of the word pathological, we may reply that telepathy was not
intended to convey, and need not convey, any suggestion of morbidity. It means no
more than "action at a distance," or more strictly, "the being acted upon at a
distance." It is to be preferred to " telaesthesia " as the more general word ; for
it includes purely mental impressions as well as sensory impressions ; while
" teltesthesia " would properly exclude the former, which, as Professor Tamburini
recognises, constitute an important class.
Q 2
22H (.Supplement.
Notice's of Books.
invites others to do so also. Two cases are presented in the article under
review ; and in the succeeding number of the KirisUi di Freniatria
(Vol. XIX., Fasc. I.) Dr. Giacchi communicates three cases and Dr.
Bracaloni another.
The two cases which Professor Tamburini gives are as follows :—
1. Virginia Guicciardi, wife of the head doctor of the Lunatic Asylum at
Reggio, had a veridical dream on the night of April 25th-26th, 1892. The
dream was told to her husband in the morning, before the event to which it
related was known. The story is best told in the words of the percipient and
her husband. It is not stated when these accounts were written, but as the
number of the periodical in which they appear was published in August,
1892, it cannot have been long after the event.
Professor Tamburini states that the Signora Guicciardi is cultivated and
studious, a writer of distinction, of quick and impressionable temperament,
but not generally subject to terrifying dreams. She has never had any other
remarkable experiences of a telepathic character ; but she has often observed
herself thinking of a person, or having his image present in her mind,
shortly before his unexpected arrival.
Account by the Siytwra Guicciardi.
" On the evening of April 25th last I went to sleep quietly, without
thinking of my sick friend [Signorina G., of Modena], About halfway through
the night I woke up with a start, thinking I heard my name called. Before
I had become quite clearly conscious I got out of bed, and, as though afraid
of an unknown danger, I ran into the next room, where my husband
was sleeping. When he had assured me that neither he nor anyone
else could have called me, I immediately went back to bed, was quite calm,
and soon went to sleep again. Later, I had the dream, in ,vhich I saw my
friend on the point of death,—a dream which was extremely clear in detail,
and which produced so strong an impression on me as to engrave itself
indelibly on my memory. When I woke up it might be half-past six
or seven in the morning—judging by the light which penetrated the closed
windows, for I did not look at the clock. I remained for a time in an
uncomfortable, half-awake condition, and fixed my mind upon the scenes of
my sad dream. I seemed to see my young friend stretched out upon her l>ed,
having on her face the terrible expression of the death-struggle. Her sisters
were standing round her, and I looked at her from a little way off. Suddenly
I could not bear the sight of her eyes, of which the white alone was visible,
and I retired to the window, and leant my forehead against the panes. Then
I heard them say in low voices, 'She is going; she is dying now.' Mean
while my heart beat as though it would break.
"In the morning, when I told my husband these experiences, I was moro
impressed by the terror I had felt than by the belief that the dream might
prove true. In fact, the news conveyed by the telegram which my husband
gave me after I had told him about the dream was unexpected.
" That same day at Modena I received from the family the curious and
sad intelligence which is connected with my dream.
"Virginia Guicciaiidi."
Supplement.l 229
Xoticets of Books.
Account bij Dr. Gnicriindi.
" On the morning of April 26th last I went into my wife's bedroom about
eight, and found her awake and rather disturbed in mind. She immediately
began to tell me the dream which she had had about two hours before (with
all the particulars, as I remember precisely, which are related above).
While she was speaking the maid came in, and, turning to mo, said,
' C (a man who works for the asylum) ' is below, and wishes to speak to you.'
I replied that I would come down directly, and went on listening to the
story, which my wife, who was still vividly impressed, resumed as soon as
the maid had gone away. I laughed a little, and when she had finished
advised her not to think of it. We talked a little of other things, and then
I left her.
"On the ground floor I found C, who gave me a telegram, which the
telegraphist of the asylum had given to him, with directions to deliver it
into my hands alone. Before that he had not told the maid, or anyone else
in my house, that he was the bearer of a private telegram. The day before
—and I remember this very well—there had been no talk in tho family
about the lady who was ill. We were certainly far from imagining that her
end would be so sudden ; for the day before that we had received a postcard
from the sister of the sick lady, telling us that there was a comparative but
distinct improvement in her condition.
"Dorr. Giuseppe Guiooiardi."
The story was told to Professor Tamburini on the very morning on which
the events took place, both by Dr. Guicciardi and by his wife, before tho
latter went to Modena to see the family of Signorina G. She went to Modena
the same day, and learnt that the death had taken place unexpectedly, about
six o'clock in the morning ; that in the course of the night the Signorina G.
h;id begged her sisters, who were nursing her, to write to her friend to come
" if she wished to see her again " ; and further, that shortly before her death
she had named Dr. Guicciardi, and said that she thought she saw him behind
a screen which was in the room.
It will be noted that in this case the dream was told to one person
before the fact of the death was known to the dreamer, and that it was,
further, told to Professor Tamburini before the details of the death and tho
fact that the dying person's thoughts had been directed to Dr. Guicciardi
and his wife in the course of the night were known.
The evidence, however, might have been made more complete in some
particulars. It would be desirable to have a statement from the sisters of
Signorina G. It would be interesting to know how far the details given by
Signora Guicciardi as to the appearance, &c., of the dying person seen in her
dream corresponded with reality. The statements given should bear dates.
2. Nice Rossi, a lunatic in the asylum at Reggio, died on May 21st,
1892, at 11 a.m. She had been in the asylum since December 20th, 1890,
and had previously been from time to time in another asylum. No inquiries
about her had been received from her family for more than a year, but on
the morning of May 23rd a postcard arrived from Mantua, from her husband,
Giovanni Berni, dated May 22nd, and asking for information as to his wife's
condition. On inquiry through a doctor at Mantua, it appeared that on the
230 [Supplement.
Notices of Books.
day before writing, i.e., on the day of his wife's death, he had felt " uneasy,
as though some misfortune were going to befall him," and that it was in
consequence of this feeling that he had determined to write.
Against the vagueness of the impression in this case may be set off the
fact that it prompted Berni to a definite action ; but the coincidence does
not seem sufficiently exact or striking to exclude the likelihood of its being
due to chance.
Dr. Oscar Giacchi, of Racconigi, communicates three telepathic cases in
the Rirista, Vol. XIX., Fasc. I.
1. The first is an experience of his own. In 1853, when a student at
Pisa, he saw in a dream, or when half awake, his father, apparently dying.
The figure spoke to him, and he kissed its lips. Although he had no previous
cause for anxiety, he went at once to Florence, where his father was, and
found that he had died suddenly of heart disease.
This experience was not, apparently, recorded at the time, and no
confirmatory evidence is given.
2. An old woman, for three years an inmate of the Racconigi Asylum,
had, before she was shut up there, received kindness from the parish priest
of San Giovanni di Racconigi. She usually slept quietly at night ; but at
midnight on the night of November 18th, 1892, she began to howl and
disturb the whole ward. She told the nurses, who tried to calm her, that
she had " seen the Prior fall to the ground, with bloody foam coming from
his mouth, and die in a few moments." The morning's report to the doctor
related this occurrence ; and at the same time it became known that the
priest in question had died of an apoplectic stroke at the time of the dream.
Here again confirmatory evidence is wanting ; and it is not stated
whether the " medical report " exists, and whether it contains particulars of
the words used by the woman.
3. Dr. Giacchi's third case is similar to Professor Tamburini's second.
The wife of a patient in the asylum wrote to inquire for news of him just at
the time of his death. But the coincidence in this case is less striking, as
the patient had only been in the asylum for two months.
Finally, a case is communicated by Dr. Bracaloni, in the same number of
the Rivuta.
In October, 1880, Signora M. was at Florence, and her father at Siena.
She was suddenly seized with violent and persistent melancholy, so strong
as to produce weeping, and to keep her awake through the night. Next
morning a telegram announced that her father—about whom she had no
cause for anxiety—had been murdered at about the time when the
melancholy began. This is related in a letter from Signora M., dated
March 26th, 1892. H_ Bamkotoh Smith.
Tim Law of Psychic Phenomena, a Working Hypothesis for the Systematic
Study of Hypnotism, Spiritism, Mental Therapeutics, &c. By
Thomson Jay Hudson. London ! G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1893.
It is not quite easy to decide on what plane Mr. Hudson's work should
be judged. If it be regarded as a purely popular, unscientific handbook to
Supplement.l 231
Notices of Books.
"pyschioal research," intended to inspire the general reader with an interest
in the subject, we may say that it is clear and readable, and reproduces
a good deal of both fact and argument from these Proceedings and elsewhere
in an easier, though often in an inaccurate, form, and occasionally with
some ingenious development. If, however, we judge it from a standpoint
more nearly approaching what seems to be the author's own, we shall be
obliged to make some serious reserves even in this modified approval.
The professed aim of the book is certainly ambitious. " My primary
object," says the author in his preface, " is to assist in bringing Psychology
within the domain of the exact sciences. That this has never been accom
plished is owing to the fact that no successful attempt has been made to
formulate a working hypothesis sufficiently simple to embrace all psychic
phenomena. . . . The London S.P.R., whose ramifications extend all
over the civilised world" (we wish they did), " was organised for the pur
pose of miking a systematic search for that law. ... I have tentatively
formulated a working hypothesis for the systematic study of all classes of
psychic phenomena. . . . Sincerely believing in the correctness of my
hypothesis, I have not hesitated to follow it to its legitimate conclusion in
every field which I have entered."
We naturally looked with interest for the hypothesis which has thus far
eluded our own researches ;—of which researches, we hasten to acknow
ledge, the author speaks in flattering terms. On p. 26 that hypothesis is
produced. But it hardly brings us much nearer to an exact science than we
were before.
" Under the rules of correct reasoning, therefore, I have a right to assume
that Man has two minds ; and the assumption is so stated, in its broadest
form, as the first proposition of my hypothesis. For convenience I shall
designate the one as the objective mind, and the other as the subjective mind.
" The second proposition is, that the subjective mind is constantly
AMENABlE TO CONTROL BY SUGGESTION.
"The third, or subsidiary, proposition is, that the subjective mind is
INCAPABlE OF INDUCTIVE REASONING."
To those who have in any degree followed the discussions in these
Proceedings on "the supraliminal and the subliminal self," "duplex per
sonality," "the hypnotic stratum," " the mechanism of suggestion," and so
forth, it will not at once be obvious for which part of this theory Mr.
Hudson claims originality. " Hitherto," he goes on to say, " no successful
attempt has been made to define clearly the nature of the two elements which
constitute the dual mind";—and he proceeds "slightly to modify and
extend " the definitions of objective and subjective in order to effect this
purpose. The words " objective " and " subjective " have had many burdens
to bear, but perhaps have never yet undergone the confusion worse con
founded of being set to represent two different forms or phases of what
would commonly be called subjective consciousness. Yet this nomenclature,
so far as we can discover, is Mr. Hudson's main original contribution to
the psychology which he is anxious to transform into an exact science.
A still more curious assumption of novelty for a theory familiar to most
readers will be found on p. 398. " I have interpreted the passages " (in the
New Testament), says Mr. Hudson, " relating to the conditions precedent
232 (Supplement.
Notices of Boohs.
to the attainment of immortal life in a way in which they have never before
been interpreted." Mr. Hudson's interpretation is that when Jesus Christ
said "He that believeth on me hath everlasting life," he meant that " belief
was the essential prerequisite to the attainment of immortality " and that
those who did not believe simply perished altogether. This doctrine of
" conditional immortality," as it is usually called, is a perfectly well known
form of theological escape from the doctrine of eternal perdition. It has
been supported by tolerably conspicuous personages, from Origen down to
Sir George Gabriel Stokes. Whatever the theological value of the hypothesis
may be, it is hardly convincing as a mere proposition in experimental
psychology deduced (as Mr. Hudson deduces it) from the phenomena of
hypnotism. The theory of "suggestion" must be pushed far indeed if it
is to prove that a mere change in a man's intellectual attitude, on however
important a matter, can effect a fundamental revolution in the relation of
his soul to his own body, and to the unseen world. Mr. Hudson, however,
has no fear "that even prejudice will find fault with my interpretation :
. . [which] is confirmed by the facts of modern science, and must,
therefore, shed a new lustre upon the name and attributes of Jesus." The
critic, perhaps, may be excused from discussing a claim so lofty as this.
But indeed here, as often elsewhere, it looks as though Mr. Hudson had
fallen into confusion from a somewhat hasty attempt to simplify theories
which he has imperfectly grasped. His "subjective mind" is alternately
made equivalent to the whole of the self assumed as lying beneath the
ordinary threshold of consciousness, and then again only to the so-called
"hypnotic stratum" of that assumed self,—that dream-like part of our
being which can be influenced by suggestions, however foolish, from our
ordinary conscious life. Thus he says (p. 324) of his "subjective mind":
"Those powers of which we catch occasional glimpses, and which so excite
our admiration, are powers which pertain to its existence in a future world.
They arc powers which proclaim it as a part of God, as partaking of the
nature and attributes of the Divine Mind." And yet this "part of God,"
which " sees God as He is," (p. 325) may be practically extinguished for ever
by the mere suggestion of the mortal or "objective mind," if the
" objective mind " does not happen to believe in its companion's existence.
" A life-long scepticism regarding the existence of the soul, and a consequent
disbelief in immortality, constitute a suggestion that must operate to deprive
the soul of a conscious existence, if the law of suggestion is universal in its
operations " (p. 386). This seems (we repeat) a somewhat serious result to
follow upon a speculative uncertainty which a good many excellent men have
shared ; nor are we convinced of its truth by being told (p. 327) that " it is
not for man to question the wisdom of God in so ordaining the relations of
the soul to the body as to subordinate the eternal to the perishable."
We have dwelt thus far upon Mr. Hudson's theories, because he himself
has insisted much on their novelty and importance. But it is not by its thcoiies
that we are ourselves disposed to judge any new work on our special branch
of experimental psychology, but rather by the new observations which it
adduces, and most of all by the new experiments which it recounts. Let us
see how Mr. Hudson's work stands in these particulars. We cite the best
new observation and the best (or only) new experiment which we can find.
Supplement. ] 233
Notices of Books.
On p. 246 an alleged case of clairaudient warning ia given, which, if
correctly reported, is in the highest degree remarkable. But all that is
vouchsafed to us is a third-hand report, without names, date, or any kind of
authentication. We had hoped that one result of our work in these Proceedings
might have been that anyone who professed to accord importance to that work
would have become ashamed of this kind of looseness,—would at least have
endeavoured to bring his narratives up to a fair evidential level. What
confidence can we accord to a story told to us by Mr. Hudson, as told to him
by an unknown person, to whom it was told by a " well-known colored
preacher " at a date unknown 1 The case is worse here inasmuch as the
story happens to be one which, if true, it would be very easy to verify.
One series of experiments of Mr. Hudson's own is described in this work
(pp. 192-5). "The best possible condition," he says, "for the conveyance
of therapeutic suggestions from the healer to the patient is attained when
both are in a state of natural sleep ; and such suggestions can be so
communicated by an effort of will on the part of the healer just before going
to sleep." Mr. Hudson claims to have himself tried this method with
success. " Over one hundred experiments have been made by the writer
and one or two others to whom he has confided his theory, without a single
failure. Some very striking cures have been effected,—-cures that would take
rank with the most marvellous instances of healing recorded in the annals, of
modern psycho-therapeutics." It is obvious that if this statement represents
a real fact, it is extremely important. Not one tittle of evidence, however,
is adduced in support of it ; and the one case which is described is a model of
confused vagueness.
The patient "was subject to the most excruciating spasms during his
nervous attacks of rheumatic trouble, and was frequently brought to the
verge of the grave. . . . An idea of the suffering which he endured may
be imagined from the fact that pne of his hips had been drawn out of joint,
by which the leg had been shortened about two inches." We find it
uncommonly difficult to " imagine an idea " (to use our author's phrase) of
what was really the matter with this patient ; and the description of his
cure ;—" after the lapse of a few months" he became " comparatively well " ;
—is of an equally mysterious character.
Now we are quite ready to agree that Mr. Hudson's plan of endeavouring
to affect a patient at a distance while both operator and patient are asleep
may be worth a trial. But who can pay any regard to alleged cures narrated
in this slipshod unscientific style 1 If our author can really effect cures in
the manner claimed, he certainly can do nothing more useful to mankind
than to repeat them as often as possible, and to get someone to watch and
record them with at least the care which an ordinary student bestows on a
thesis sent in for his medical degree. We can assure Mr. Hudson that
we shall be the very first to welcome any real and effective collaboration
of this kind.
We had marked for comment many passages containing, as it seemed to
us, inconsistencies, exaggerations, or definite and demonstrable mistakes.
But it is distasteful further to insist on these in a book which does, after
all, range itself on the side of what we regard as important and seldom-
realised truth. This is, we assume, a first work. We hope that our present
234 [Supplement.
Notices of Books.
words may have the effect, not of alienating the author from this difficult
study, but of stimulating him to something more of that steady experiment
and laborious accuracy which alone can help towards his avowed object of
" bringing Psychology within the domain of the exact sciences."
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 60th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, July 14th, 1893, at 4 p.m., Professor
Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr. W. Leaf read part of his translation from the Russian of
Mr. "V. S. Solovioff's account of Madame Blavatsky, which will be
published in a separate Supplement to this Part of the Proceedings.
Pbofessor W. F. Barrett read a paper on "The Alleged Evidence
in Favour of the Divining Rod."
The 61st General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
October 27th, at 4 p.m , Mr. Pearsall Smith in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers gave an account of his visit to the Congress
of Psychical Science at Chicago.
Mr. W. Leaf read a further part of his translation of Mr. Solovioff's
account of Madame Blavatsky.
Mr. Myers read part of his paper on " The Experiences of W.
Stainton Moses," printed below.
The 62nd General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
December 1st, at 8.30 p.m., Professor W. F. Barrett in the chair.
Professor Lodge read a paper on " The difficulty of making
crucial Experiments as to the Source of the extra or unusual Intelli
gence manifested in Trance-speech, Automatic-writing, and other
states of apparent mental inactivity."
Mr. Myers read a further part of his paper on " The Experiences
of W. Stainton Moses," including Mr. Charlton T. Speer's account of
his reminiscences of Mr. Moses ; and Mr. Speer, who was present, gave
further explanations in answer to questions.
R
230 Professor William Ramsay.
I.
PARTIAL ANESTHESIA.
By Prof. William Ramsay, Ph.D., F.R.S.
Some fourteen years ago I belonged to a committee of the British
Medical Association formed for the purpose of investigating the
action of ansesthetics, especially chloroform and ether. But some
other substances capable of producing anesthesia were also experi
mented with ; among others, ethylidene dichloride, ethylene dichloride,
chloropropane, amylene, etc. Professor John McKendrick and Dr.
Coats bore the brunt of the inquiry ; my function was chiefly to
purify the substances employed, and in some cases to ascertain their
composition.
One of the questions which occurred to us to investigate was the
influence of anesthetics on the rate at which the muscles respond to
a nervous stimulus. For example, a bright light was flashed before
the eyes of the partially anaesthetised person, who had to signal his
perception of the stimulus by touching a button, which registered on
a chronograph the interval of time which elapsed between the flash
of light and the response of the muscles. I was frequently the
subject of such experiments, and was often under various anaesthetics,
more or less completely. It has occurred to me that it might be of
interest to the Society for Psychical Research were I to put on record
some account of the mental delusions which invariably, with me,
accompany partial insensibility ; and as I have frequently, though often
at intervals of a year or more between each trial, taken anaesthetics
without any tragic object in view, I am able to draw conclusions, not
from one or two impressions, but from many, extending over a series
of years.
The anaesthetic was always administered on a handkerchief or piece
of rag, dipped in the liquid, whatever it might be. With nitrous
oxide, I usually breathed through an india-rubber tube straight from
the iron bottle in which the substance is sold, turning the gas on and
off at each breath. When I failed to regulate the stop-cock, my
assistant closed and removed the bottle.
I may say at the outset, that on me all anesthetics produce the
same mental state. Some are more agreeable to inhale than others.
To breathe chloroform gives a feeling of slight nausea ; ether vapour
is apt to excite coughing ; but they all produce the same curious
Partial Anaesthesia. 237
delusion. My early recollections are of a kind of dream, of which
the main incidents were :—A taste of peppermint ; an idea of two
tones sounded together, of which the upper one was a harmonic of
the lower ; my eye then usually caught some object whose distinctive
feature was parallel lines ; for example, the bars of the grate, or the
cross-pieces of the window-sash, and here again the idea of a harmonic
arrangement suggested itself, as if the bars of the grate were arranged
so as to form gaps corresponding to the fundamental note, the fifth,
and the octave. I have recollections of a certain artist's lay-figure
in which the skin is removed to show the lie of the muscles, in motion
round me, so that he, too, partook of the rhythmic nature of things,
continually quickening his pace, and appearing on my left hand, to
dart quickly past and disappear on my right. These I may term
preliminary impressions ; I have long ceased to have them, and
they are more of the nature of an ordinary dream, in which things
pass through one's mind without exciting great attention, remarkable
though they may seem. I remember noticing with some curiosity
the mode of action of the gentleman without his skin ; how the
inuscles of the thigh and calf contracted and expanded as he ran ;
but this was a matter of no great moment.
During this dream I was really conscious, and was able to reply
to questions, and to criticise the various remarks made by the persons
round. Up to this point, moreover, I retained my power of signalling
in response to a flash or a sound, with little, if any, greater retardation
than that of my normal state. But the second stage gradually
approached ; and I failed to attend to external objects, except for
certain reasons, shortly to follow. An overwhelming impression
forced itself upon me that the state in which I then was, was reality ;
that now I had reached the true solution of the secret of the universe,
in understanding the secret of my own mind ; that all outside objects
were merely passing reflections on the eternal mirror of my mind ;
some more, some less transient. In later experiments with anaesthetics
I have tried with success to recall events of the day ; how I was
occupied in my laboratory ; how I walked down Oxford-street in
the morning ; what I saw, and whom I met ; and with success ;
but they impressed me as a fleeting vision ; something quite trivial
and transitory. The main and impressive fact for me was that / was
self-existent, and that time and space were illusions. This was the
real Ego, on whose surface ripples of incident arose, to fade and
vanish like the waves on a pond.
But to test the truth of this conception, I have generally noted
the objects near me. Someone, perhaps, made a remark ; for example,
" He has had nearly enough now." This remark wearied me, because
I had heard it so often before ; I conceived a low opinion of the
r 2
238 Professor William Ramsay.
being who could pass his life in saying such a trivial and unimportant
thing, and I disdained to answer. Or, perhaps, my eye caught sight
of a Bunsen burner—a common object in every laboratory ; and
here again I knew that it had been there through endless ages. Some
noise—the emptying of a cart of coals on the street, perhaps—struck
my attention. I not merely knew that it had happened before, but I
could have predicted that it would happen at that particular moment.
To make my story more definite, since writing the above, I have
taken ether, and during the commencement of anaesthesia, I took
notes ; it is as if one were writing in a dream ; I wrote until the
muscles of my hand refused to obey my will ; and I have little doubt
that the concentration of attention on the mechanical process of
writing interfered to some extent with the normal course of the
mental impressions. The notes, such as they are, are as follows :—-
(I began with nitrous oxide.)
Singing in ears ; slight difficulty in focussing, and dimness of
vision (that is, I imagine, the partial paralysis of the muscles, the
function of which is to focus the eyes) ; tingling in legs (continued
with ether ; the numbers refer to doses).
1. Much slower than nitrous oxide : became unusually sensitive to
" outside things " ; heard water dropping from cistern outside room.
2. Deep inhalations ; stage of singing in ears not reached yet.
Just come ; vision affected ; tingling in legs ; tingling in spinal
cord at neck. Beginning of consciousness of previous existence.
3. Slack off, keeping about the same stage.
4. Ether disagreeable to inhale. Swallow, important. (This
refers to the fact, either true or imagined, that at this stage I always
swallowed my saliva. It appeared to me to mark a definite stage
in the whole range of sensations.) I allowed myself to recover
slightly and wrote : " This refers to feeling that same stage always
recurs, and to feeling of eternal existence."
5. Felt perspiring. Am perspiring. Absurdly self-conscious,
all through.
6. A lot—things going too slowly ; deep inhalations. Swallow,
tfec., all as before.
(On waking, I looked at my watch, and found that I had been
unconscious about a quarter of an hour.)
As soon as I regained consciousness, I wrote :—" With the
consciousness of writing, sitting at this table ; with a handkerchief
at my mouth, a door on my right, a window on my left, a cigarette
on the table (I am wearing striped trousers, and there is a cane-
bottomed chair on my left), a ticket before me, and a book open
at page 8. All these and other things convince me (as I have been
convinced before by seeing a piece of crumpled paper) that this is
Partial Ancesthesia. 239
.1 stage in the cycle of the universe. The notion is that I alone
aw privileged to see all this ; other people may exist, but I have .
not thought of them ; it is a phase in my development. Each time
I am under the influence of an anaesthetic I am able to penetrate a
little further into the unfathomable mystery. The recognition of past
stages does much to render the path familiar." I do not think that
I am a follower of Bishop Berkeley in my oidinary every-day existence ;
my tendency of mind is, by training, and by the nature of my daily
avocations, to suspend judgment—a condition of scientific scepticism.
But under the influence of an anaesthetic all doubts vanish ; I know
the truth of Berkeley's theory of existence, and I also believe, because I
know with absolute certainty, that self-existence is all that any
reasonable man can be convinced of ; that all fellow-creatures are
products of my consciousness, and that, although they may be real
to themselves, and have each a world of his own, to me they are
merely parts of my thoughts, and, moreover, not very important
elements in my chain of life. Faith, I take it, is belief without
reason, because of a supposed certain knowledge ; and that is my
attitude of mind with regard to Berkeley's theory of existence. But
the feelings evoked are disappointing. It is not satisfying to realise
that the goal of the whole universe is of this nature. The circum
stances are so trivial as to make it painful to believe that this is the
scheme of nature ; that " that far-off divine event to which the whole
creation moves " should have in its progress no higher deeds, and for
its outcome no nobler aim than I am then conscious of. My feelings
are sometimes those of despair in finding the secret of existence so
little worthy of regard. It is as if the veil that hides whence we
come, what we are, and what will become of us were suddenly rent,
and as if a glimpse of the Absolute burst upon us. The conviction
of its truth is overwhelming ; but it is painful in the extreme. I
have exclaimed—" Good heavens ! is this all ! " Such impressions,
which it is exceedingly difficult to express in words, pass off gradually.
After five minutes they begin to fade in intensity ; the conviction
of their absolute truth is less deep-seated ; that there exists an
ordinary work-a-day world, in which I and innumerable others play
our parts, is again realised ; and in ten minutes or a quarter of an
hour the state of mind is again perfectly normal. There is no after-
impression ; no nausea, except occasionally after chloroform ; and
my nerves are as steady as usual, for I have performed the operation
of weighing immediately on recovery—an operation requiring a steady
hand, and some judgment.
It may be worth while to supplement the above account by full
notes taken by Miss F. W. of my sayings under ether. I take this
opportunity of thanking her for her kind co-operation.
240 Professor William Ramsay.
Position.—Usually standing, leaning slightly forward.
Expression.—Concentrated, but no rigidity after first experiment.
Two states apparently supervened : One of attention to minute details-
furniture, surrounding objects, &c. ; the other of complete subordination to
idea of " Theory of Universe." The transition from one to the other was
well defined and instantaneous.
Pauses—and partial or total return to consciousness—always occurred
after preparing a new dose, before taking it. Then "breaks" came unex
pectedly—like a sudden idea occurring to the experimenter ; quite distinct
from the phrase, " Now, I know you think," or " will be saying that I have
taken enough "—which seemed a mere facon de purler and was never
succeeded by an interruption of the experiment.
Experiment I.
Dose I. 1.20p.m.—Begins to inhale. "Pleasant taste, as usual, of
ether." "Slight fulness about head; just beginning to tell." " Least
possible affection of eyes—not dimness of vision."
Dose II. 1.21 p.m.—" Inclination to take full breaths (coughing) ;
mental state still perfectly normal." (coughing) " Tingling in ears begins,
also sense of ' recurrence of events '—i.e., everything has occurred before."
Dose III. 1.23p.m.—" Trace of beginning sense of 'having been here
before.'" (swallows) "This is not the important moment." Feeling of
recurrence, e.g., table, mantel-piece, &c., "having been always there."
(Here talking interfered ; goes back a stage.)
Dose IV. 1.25 p.m.—Outsido noises peculiarly intense throughout—
back at recurrent stage—(cough)—confused sense coming on—(swallow)—
conscious of F. A. \V. sitting at table as unfamiliar object in sequence—
(deep breaths). [Here I observed a slight change of face—fulness about
eyes, swallow, then fixed look, motionless and silent for two minutes—then
eyes winked, and you roused yourself to speak.] "This, one little piece of
enormous coherence of Universe—utterly ridiculous in its smallness." (more
complete awakening) "Every bit of these events recurred—except fact
of woman instead of man as observer—cycle of events recurring bothers me
greatly, because I expect each stage to go further—i.e., stage in evolution of
Universe. "
Experiment II.
Dose I. 1.30 p.m.—Begins again, so as to recover former stage ; deep
breaths as before.
Dose II.—Can still speak—tells me what to note down. Taste dulled,
1.31, and general dulness of sensation, but no choking; feels cold touch of
ether, but no strong taste. N.B.—Throat, difficulty in articulation.
Dose III.—No difficulty in breathing—e.g., no asphyxia—this not noticed
in former experiments. 1.33 (looking at me). Very close upon unconscious
stage and on stage of repetition, (speaks) " This is the scheme of the
Universe and my being here —but I never before reached the point of having
taken ether before." (Sat down on sofa, having previously been standing—
1.35 p.m.)
Dose IV.—(on sofa) Points to and names wall, papers, F. A. W.'s watch
—notes feeling of swallowing—points to bottle—book—No. 27, Jour. Chem.
Soc.—1.36. (silence, staggered.)
Partiul Anwsthesia. 2«
Dose V.—(Prepares dose, stops short, saying) : "I see you think I have
had enough—I will stop short to explain. In the ordinary work-a-day
world this is an untenable theory—I mean the sense of ' myself alone '—of
what affects me—there is a series of precisely similar events. I believe, as
far as I can comprehend, that this is the Universe. At a certain point the
order of reason alters—this time has brought me a stage farther. That is
wrong. (1.38.) Here I have recognised the ultimate scheme of tha Universe,
as far as I am concerned up to a certain stage. It will probably be worked
out when I die. Yet that is not the end—I shall go on after that, but to
what ? "
" I will take ether again."
Experiment III.
Dose I. 1.44. j>.m.—(deep breaths—coughing) Reflex action abolished
at certain stage—patient does not choke. That stage is past, (1.45) and
recurring stage begins.
Dose II.—" Feeling of repetition of details, (coughs) I put my hand in
my pocket—characteristic action?" Feeling of swallowing—notes look of
board, pen, watch, F.A.W. writing.
Dose III. 1.46 p.m.—Notes fact of taking another dose of ether ; points
to letters—glass plate—bottle with label, (replaces hand in pocket) " Oh,
by Jove ! Yes, I know—after all it comes to this." (takes dose)
Dose IV. 1.47 p.m.—"It is one or the other Theory of the Universe, and
mine must be the most probable—mine or somebody else's. Well, I may
be the central person in the universe — I don't mind. I can't help it. (1.48—
deep breaths—winking of eyes—silent 1A minute*. 1.49—swallowed—
moved.)
Dose V.—" Have I been unconscious for a considerable time ? By Jove !
if one only knew the whole thing. This may be the truth—it is my own view,
and deserves to be known."
Dose VI. 1.50p.m.—" The Universe is in our brain. Is this a big thing '!
Do you hear the man sawing—more or less quickly ? Now I breathe hard.
Now I note appearance of a particular man there (pointing to fireplace),
whom I never asked you to note before, nor will now, but he appears as
part of the Universe."
1.52 p.m.—(Prepares next dose but stops short—sits) " It looks to me
as if the Universe were the creation of a demon. This is a stage in the
development bound to recur, but each time I can stop it— and anticipate it.
Now, I want to go on a stage further if you will let me. This is quite con
sistent so far. (1.53.) I am now in my ordinary common-sense state of mind."
Dose VII. 1.54 p.m.—"Now I am beginning to get into new dose.
There are two Theories of the Universe. One individual undergoes a series
of mental transformations. People choose to imagine that there are worlds
—that is to say, build mental cosmogonies."
Dose VIII. 1.55 p.m.— " Of course it is an open question whether other
people have existence as well as one's self. Am I right to take another
dose? [I replied that I thought you might.] No good without ? dying. I
simply put it in this way, am not losing time—that is to say, truth." 1.56.
(silent) "This ether may give out. Some control is still left, (prepares
dose) Am able.still to exercise control and stop. (1.57.) By some chance I
242 Professor William Ramsay.
am picked out for the central purpose of the Universe." (Lights cigarette.
Interruption at door—Williams ; answered quietly and coherently, sending
him away.) "In this state of mind, quarrels and reconciliations, woes and
fears, are no longer the chief thing of the Universe—but one asks—where
does it come from—what is it all for—i.e., which is the normal, which the
abnormal state of affairs 1 When I come back to my sane consciousness I
hold the ether state to be abnormal, and vice vend. We are mere excrescences
and little bits of the Universe. The main fact is this recurrence. (2.3 p.m.)
Of course this is utterly absurd in ordinary life. Now I am sane again, but
under ether there is only me. It is all myself—my wife and friends are
nowhere. (2.10.) Fact of recurrence induces me to think of it as perpetual."
At the end of another experiment, in which the remarks bore a close
similarity to those already given, I am reported to have said: "Have
been drunk with ether ; am now recovering. Of course, the theory
of other people's existence is the most convenient. But when one is self-
centred, evidence goes the other way—i.e., Universe evolves out of one's
own mind. 27te whole thing turns on this point—all social relations—all
develop out of the recurring stage." (I suggested, yes as " nucleus.") "Yes,
but all comes out of this—far more than you can imagine." (2.45, stopped.)
Such is a brief chronicle of my mental state under anaesthetics.
Others whom I have seen in a similar condition are usually unable to
give any account whatever of their sensations. One gentleman, how
ever, now in Australia, used to be hypnotised by ether, and was very
susceptible to suggestions ; but he was highly excited, and sometimes
became unpleasantly demonstrative, even dangerous.
At the end of a very interesting work by Sir Humphrey Davy
(then Mr. Davy, working in Dr. Beddoes' Pneumatic Institution at
Bristol), entitled, Researches, Chemical and Philosophical, chiefly
concerning nitrous ' oxide or dephlogisticaied nitrons air and its res
piration published in 1800, twenty-nine persons, among whom are
Dr. Joseph Priestley, Mr. Josiah Wedgwood, Mr. Boulton, and Mr.
Watt, chronicle their feelings under the influence of nitrous oxide.
They almost all speak of a high flow of animal spirits, and great
pleasurable excitement ; but no one has placed on record any state of
mind like that which I have attempted to describe. The only account
tallying in the least with my impressions is by Davy himself, and with
him such impressions were exceptional. He says : " As I recovered
my former state of mind, I felt an inclination to communicate the
discoveries I had made during the experiment. I endeavoured to
recall the ideas : they were feeble and indistinct ; one collection of
terms, however, presented itself ; and with the most intense belief and
prophetic manner, I exclaimed to Dr. Kinglake, ' Nothing exists but
thoughts !—the universe is composed of impressions, ideas, pleasures,
and pains ! '" It is curious that this, with Davy, was an isolated
occurrence ; it appears not to have recurred. With me it was a
permanent impression.
Partial Anccsthesia. 243
It is somewhat startling to be confronted with an unexpected
condition of one's own mind. The saying, in vino veritas, is, I suppose,
intended to imply that an intoxicated person will blurt out the truth ;
but the intoxication of anaesthetics forces me, while in that condition,
to believe that what I think is true. The theory attributed to Bishop
Berkeley is a perfectly consistent one, and can be disputed only
on grounds of what we term " common-sense." I do not, in my
ordinary state of mind, attribute any importance to this theory,
beyond regarding it as a somewhat improbable, but incontrovertible
speculation ; but I confess that, since my experiences with anaesthetics,
I am disposed to regard it as worthy of a little more consideration
than it usually receives. The difficulty in accepting it is our
practically absolute certainty of the existence of our fellow-creatures ;
and the deduction that if A and B receive the same impression
at the same time, that impression must be caused by some thing,
external to both. But in my anaesthetic state, this objection presents
no difficulty to me ; I conceive each ego to have his orbit, and
to stand absolutely alone, conscious of, but uninterfered with by, the
other egos. To choose a crude illustration :—two mirrors reflect, but
do not influence each other in any mechanical or material sense. The
recollection, which remains after return to the ordinary state of mind,
of having had such Berkeleian views, is, perhaps naturally, not without
some influence on the normal mind ; and, as I have said, it appears to
me not wholly absurd to reconsider the usual postulates of " common-
sense." In short, I am confronted, under ether, with what I may term
" recurring events." It is necessary to form some theory which will
reconcile myself with this new environment ; and the idea that the
Universe centres itself in me appears to me, while in the anaesthetised
state, to be a satisfactory one.
I must leave to others speculations regarding the nature of the
change which has occurred in my brain by such stimulation or perhaps
partial paralysis. Whether it is that a certain region of my brain is
rendered inactive, and that a speculative tendency, to which I acknow
ledge, escapes the control of certain higher centres active in my
ordinary state of existence ; or whether the one lobe of the brain
which I habitually use has become paralysed, and one which usually
lies dormant is stimulated — these, and such questions, I cannot
attempt to solve. The fact remains that, while amesthetised, my belief
in that theory of existence which we may call for short the Berkeleian
hypothesis, is immeasurably more firm and decided than in my normal
state is my belief in the ordinarily accepted views of matter and
motion which regulate the lives of most human beings.
In conclusion, I owe an apology for the egotistic tone of this
paper. My only excuse is that, under the circumstances, it was
Professor William Ramsay.
unavoidable. It might also have been desirable to have hunted
through the literature of anaesthetics, and to have compared my
impressions with impressions possibly recorded by others. I have
purposely avoided doing so, and for this reason, that I feared that I
might have been unconsciously led, before placing on record my
experiences, to give a biassed account. Such impressions are so apt to
elude one's waking grasp, and to slip away like a dream, that any
inducement to add to or to take from them has been carefully avoided.
I believe that an examination of such a mental state is not without
value. Everything which bears on the pathology of the mind throws
light on its physiology ; and I trust that others who may have
happened, from choice or necessity, to take anaesthetics, will be induced
by my essay to give some details of their impressions.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 245
II.
THE EXPERIENCES OF W. STAINTON-MOSES,—I.
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
Mr. William Stainton Moses, who departed this life on September 5th,
1892, entrusted by will his unpublished manuscripts to two friends as
literary executors—viz., Mr. Charles Carleton Massey, barrister-at-law,
and Mr. Alaric A. Watts, late one of the Assistant Secretaries to the
Board of Inland Revenue. These gentlemen, at my earnest request,
have permitted me to undertake the task of selecting passages from
the MSS. of our common friend, which passages they allow to be
printed in the first instance in the Proceedings of the S.P.R. In an
obituary notice of Mr. Moses, already published in Proceedings,
Vol. VIII., p. 597 (and to which I would beg to refer my readers), I
have indicated the reasons which have for nearly twenty years led me
to attach high importance to these records of his phenomena, and to
desire earnestly that they should be placed before the public in sufficient
detail to enable them to be rightly appreciated. Mr. Moses himself
was for a long time averse to any full publication of the documents,
which do, indeed, contain much matter of a private and personal nature.
But in his later years his view changed ; he had himself begun (in
1892) to publish them in Light, and his statements to intimate friends
leave no doubt that this posthumous publication (with certain reserves
to be mentioned hereafter) of the essential part of his records is in
accordance with what would have been his own desire, as it is the desire
of his trusted executors.
The materials here available for the exposition of Mr. Moses'
unique experiences are of four kinds—viz. : (1) his own printed
works ; (2) his MS. remains ; (3) the written and printed statements
of witnesses to his phenomena, and (4) oral intercourse with himself
and other friends.
I. Among his printed works the most important for our present
purpose are—
1. Researches in Spiritualism. This unfinished work was pub
lished in Unman Nature—a periodical now extinct—in
1874-5, and not reprinted. It is now difficult of access.
2. Spirit Identity, published in 1879. This work also has been
for some years out of print.
246 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
3. Spirit Teachings, published in 1883, is also at present out of
print ; but a new edition, with a biography by Mr.
Charlton Speer, is now in preparation.
Two other volumes, Psyclwgraphy and Higher Asptcts of
Sjriritualism, contain little which bears on our present
theme.
Besides these books, Mr. Moses wrote much in the weekly
periodical Light, of which he was for some years the editor.
II. Mr. Moses' MSS. entrusted to me, and of which I have made
use, consist of thirty-one note-books, ranging from September, 1872, to
March, 1883, and various letters.
The note-books may be divided as follows :—
Twenty-four books of automatic script, numbered 1-24, and
extending from March, 1873, to March, 1883.
Four books of records of physical phenomena, September, 1872—
January, 1875. These books run concurrently with the books of auto
matic script. The first book of this series (April-September, 1872) is
missing. Those which remain I have numbered 2 B, 3 B, 4 B, and 5 B.
Three books of retrospect and summary, which I number 25, 26,
27. Books 25 and 26 recapitulate physical phenomena, with reflections.
Book 27 is entitled The Identity of Spirit, and contains, in briefer form,
much of the evidence first printed in Spirit Identity ; which work,
indeed, this later tractate may have been intended to supersede. Some
of the letters also are of value, but mainly as adding contemporary con
firmation to facts already to be found in the note-books.
III. Among the records made by friends the most important are
Mrs. Stanhope Speer's " Records of Private Seances, from notes taken at
the time of each sitting." Over sixty instalments of these records have
now (October, 1893) been published in Light. They begin in 1872,
and go down to 1881—considerably beyond the date (1875) at which
Mr. Moses' extant records of physical phenomena obtained in his
seances cease. As will be seen later on, these independent and con
temporary records are evidentially of capital importance. Dr. and Mrs.
Stanhope Speer were Mr. Moses' most intimate friends ; and they, often
with another intimate friend, Mr. F. W. Percival (Barrister-at-Law
and Examiner in the Education Department), were the habitual mem
bers, and generally the only members, of the small group who witnessed
the phenomena about to be described.
Mr. Percival, the late Dr. Speer, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and Dr.
Thomson, and the late Mr. Serjeant Cox have at different times
printed short first-hand records of certain of Mr. Moses' phenomena,
and Mrs. Garratt and Miss Birkett took some contemporary notes of
sittings at which they were present.
Two note-books and other MSS. by Dr. Speer have been placed in
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 247
my hands, and contain independent contemporary records of much
evidential value.
IV. In estimating the evidential value of oral intercourse as to Mr.
Moses' phenomena, the character of my own friendship for him is an
item on which I am bound to be explicit. Friendship it might truly
be called, for it was based upon a consciousness of common pur
suits of great moment, and I felt for him much both of gratitude and
of esteem. He responded to my unfeigned interest with a straight
forward intimacy of conversation on the experiences of which I cared so
much to learn. But there was no such close personal attraction as is
likely to prompt me to partiality as a biographer ; and, indeed, both
Edmund Gurney and I were conscious in him of something like the
impatience of a schoolmaster towards slow students ;—natural enough
in a man whose inborn gifts have carried him irresistibly to a con
viction on the edge of which less favoured persons must needs pause
and ponder long. I am bound to add that the study of his note
books, by making him more intimately known to me as he was in his
best days, has brought me nearer to the warm and even enthusiastic
estimate implied in the letters of various more intimate friends of his
which lie before me.
More important, however, than the precise degree of attractiveness,
or of spiritual refinement, in Mr. Moses' personal demeanour are the
fundamental questions of sanity and probity. On these points neither
I myself, nor, so far as I know, any person acquainted with Mr. Moses,
has ever entertained any doubt. " However perplexed for an explana
tion," says Mr. Massey, " the crassest prejudice has recoiled from ever
suggesting a doubt of the truth and honesty of Stainton Moses."
" I believe that he was wholly incapable of deceit," writes Mr. H. J.
Hood, barrister-at law, who knew him for many years. The people
who assumed that he must somehow have performed the phenomena
of his dark stances himself ;—who asked, triumphcintly, " Where was
Moses when the candle went out 1 "—even these never, so far as I
know, suggested anything beyond unconscious fraud in a trance-
condition.
A brief record of Mr. Moses' life, with some estimates of the work
done by him in ordinary professional capacities, will help the reader to
form something of a personal judgment on his character.
On the events of his life the Speer family, who were his most
intimate friends, and are well acquainted with his nearest surviving
relatives, are my main authority. Their importance as witnesses of the
phenomena is so great that I must be pardoned for inserting a
" testimonial " to the late Dr. Speer (M.D. Edinburgh) ; which shall
not, however, be in my own words, but in those of Dr. Marshall
Hall, F.R.S., one of the best known physicians of the middle of this
248 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
century. Writing on March 18th, 1849, Dr. Marshall Hall says (in a
printed collection of similar testimonials now before me) : " I have
great satisfaction in bearing my testimony to the talents and acquire
ments of Dr. Stanhope Templeman Speer. Dr. Speer has had unusual
advantages in having been at the Medical Schools, not only of London
and Edinburgh, but of Paris and Montpellier, and he has availed
himself of these advantages with extraordinary diligence and talent.
He ranks among our most distinguished rising physicians."
Dr. Speer held at different times various hospital posts of credit,
and was much valued as a practising physician at Cheltenham and in
London. The work of a physician, however, was rendered somewhat
trying to him by an over-anxious temperament ; and as he possessed
private means, and had strong scientific and artistic tastes, he quitted
his profession at thirty-four, and preferred to spend the latter part of
his life in studious retirement. Dr. Speer's cast of mind was strongly
materialistic, and it is remarkable that his interest in Mr. Moses'
phenomena was from first to last of a purely scientific, as contrasted
with an emotional or a religious, nature.
I regret that I never met Dr. Speer, who died in 1889. His
widow, Mrs. Stanhope Speer, is well known to me ; and I regard her as
an excellent witness. Her son, Mr. Charlton T. Speer (also an
excellent witness) is an Associate of the Royal Academy of Music, and
is well known in musical circles as a successful composer and performer.
With these words of preface I pass on to the facts—simple and
ordinary enough in their external aspect—of Mr. Moses' life.
William Stainton Moses was born in Lincolnshire, November 5th,
1839. His father had been headmaster of a grammar-school at
Donington, near Lincoln. His mother's family name was Stainton. Mr.
Stainton Moses believed that the name Moses had been originally
Mostyn, but that an ancestor had changed it in order to avoid some
peril in the time of the Commonwealth. There seems no reason
to suppose that the family, which had been for some time settled
in Lincolnshire, was of Jewish descent. Mrs. Moses—still living
and vigorous (1893) at the age of ninety-one—was a serious and
intelligent woman, and brought up her only son with pious care. He
showed ability ; and the family moved to Bedford, about 1852, that
he might have the advantage of education at Bedford College. There
he did well, and in due time gained a scholarship at Exeter College,
Oxford. In his school days he occasionally walked in his sleep, and on
one occasion his mother saw him go down into the sitting-room and
write an essay on a subject which had puzzled him on the previous
evening, and return to bed without awaking. The essay thus written
was the best of those sent up by the class that day (Mr. Moses
tells us), and was fully up to the level of his waking performances.
Tfte Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 249
This is the only incident of which I have heard which in any way
foreshadowed his future gift. He is not recorded as having been a
specially nervous or excitable child ; and he was at this time strong
and healthy. In after life his health was bad ; but his troubles were
mainly respiratory—constantly recurring catarrh and bronchitis—until
near the end of his life, when he was attacked by Bright's disease,
which ultimately caused his death. His phenomena, it may be observed,
were at their best when he was in his best health, and declined or
disappeared altogether when he was ill.
To return to his Oxford career. At Oxford he was an ambitious
and hard-working, but not in other ways a very noticeable, under
graduate. His health broke down from overwork, and he left Oxford
without taking a degree, and spent some considerable time in travel,
mainly with friends, but in part alone. He was already much
interested in theology, and he lived for some six months (none of these
dates are very precise) in a monastery on Mount Athos. Beyond the
mere fact of his residence on Mount Athos, to which his surviving
friends testify, all that is known of this period of seclusion consists
of allusions made by his " spirit guides," who say that they directed
him thither that he might study the Eastern Church, and be prepared
by a comparison of theologies for the reception of a wider truth. Be
this as it may, he recovered his health, returned to Oxford, took his
degree, was ordained by Bishop Wilberforce, and accepted a curacy at
Kirk Maughold, near Ramsey, in the Isle of Man, at the age of twenty-
four. He was an active parish clergyman, liked by his parishioners, and
holding Anglican views of an ordinary type. On the occasion of an
outbreak of small-pox he distinguished himself by his zeal and kindness ;
and it is recorded that in one case he helped to nurse and to bury a
man whose malady was so violent that it was hard to get anyone to
approach him. During this period also he began to write for periodi
cals, Punch and the Saturday Revieiv being specially mentioned. The
memorial verses to the Rev. F. D. Maurice which appeared in Punch
have since been quoted as of Mr. Moses' writing ; and I should conceive
that his other contributions were probably in this serious strain. He
continued to write much, anonymously, for various periodicals during
many years of his life, and showed an easy style and a good deal of
miscellaneous knowledge.
After some four years of residence near Ramsey, he accepted the
curacy of St. George's, Douglas, Isle of Man. Here also he was
esteemed as an active clergyman, and admired as a preacher. In April,
1869, he had a serious illness, and hearing that Dr. Speer, whom he
knew slightly, was in the island on a holiday, he called in his medical
aid. Dr. Speer brought him successfully through his illness, and
invited him as a convalescent to the house which he was renting in the
250 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
island. The foundations of a life-long friendship with Dr. and Mrs.
Speer were then laid.
In 1870 he took a curacy somewhere in Dorsetshire, where also he
was liked, and was appointed " Lent preacher " for the county. A very
severe attack of hooping-cough obliged him to interrupt his parish
work, which, in fact, he never resumed. Dr. Speer invited him to
become his son's tutor, and for seven years he filled that office in a way
which attached to him both parents and pupil more closely than ever.
In 1871 he was offered a mastership in University College School ; and
this post he held until failing health compelled him to resign it some
three years before his death. The physical phenomena about to be
described began in 1872, and continued with gradually lessening-
frequency until 1881. The automatic script began in 1873, and finally
died out, so far as we know, in 1883. During these later years
Mr. Moses was active in contributing to, and afterwards in editing, the
weekly newspaper Light ; and he took a leading part in several
spiritistic organisations. Of one of these—the London Spiritualist
Alliance—he was president at the time of his death. In 1882 he aided
in the foundation of the Society for Psychical Research ; but he left that
body in 1886, on account of its attitude towards Spiritualism, which
he regarded as unduly critical. It is worth remarking that although,
as the fact of his withdrawal shows, many members of the Society held
an intellectual position widely differing from that of Mr. Moses, and
although his own published records were of a kind not easily credible,
no suspicion as to his personal probity and veracity was ever, so far as
I know, either expressed or entertained.
Mr. Moses' health became steadily weaker. He suffered greatly from
suppressed gout, in addition to other ailments. A serious fall from
the top of an omnibus made matters worse. In 1890 he was attacked
by influenza in the severest form, and was reckoned, I believe, to have
had twelve separate relapses or recurrences of that complaint. An
accident to his eyes also gave him much trouble. He worked on, as
best he could, to the last ; but the period of decline was tedious and
distressing ; and it would be very unfair to judge him from the
utterances of these last years. When in September, 1892, he passed
from earth, we may surely trust that his achievements here had won
their way to promotion, and his sufferings to repose.
Mr. Moses never married, and went very little into general society.
His personal appearance offered no indication of his peculiar gift.
He was of middle stature, strongly made, with somewhat heavy
features, and thick dark hair and beard. The accompanying photo
graph (reproduced from Light by the kind permission of Mr. E. Dawson
Rogers) shows his face as his body lay in death. His expression of
countenance was honest, manly, and resolute. Many testimonies of
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 251
affection and esteem appeared in Light and elsewhere after his decease ;
especially, of course, from those to whom his experiences and teachings
had brought a convincing hope. I subjoin a few letters from friends
who had good opportunities of estimating his value in the common
duties and intercourse of life.
Dr. Johnson, of Bedford, writes to me as follows :—
" 68, High-street, Bedford.
" March 24th, 1893.
"Dear Sir,—As the intimate friend and medical adviser of the late
Stainton Moses I have had ample opportunities of thoroughly knowing his
character and his mental state.
" He was a man even in temper, painstaking and methodical, of excep
tional ability, and utterly free from any hallucination or anything to indicate
other than a well-ordered brain.
" He was a firm believer in all that he uttered or wrote about matters of a
spiritual nature, and he impressed me—and, I believe, most others he came in
contact with—with the genuineness of his convictions and a firm belief not
only that he believed in the statements he had made and written, but that
they were the outcome of a mind which had given itself up entirely to the
study of a subject which he considered of essential value and importance
to the welfare of his fellow men. .
" I have attended him in several very severe illnesses, but never, in sick
ness or at other times, has his brain shown the slightest cloudiness or suffered
from any delusion. I not only consider that he believed what he stated, but
I think that those who knew him best would not for an instant doubt that all
he stated were facts and words of truth.—Sincerely yours,
" Wm. G. Johnson."
In another letter Dr. Johnson says :—
" He was a most lovable character ; kind and generous in his every action ;
and with a fund of information on most subjects which made him a most
welcome guest."
Dr. Eve, headmaster of University College School, writes as follows
to Professor Sidgwick :—
" University College School, Gower-street, London, W.C.
" March 18th, 1893.
"Mv Dear Sidgwick,—Stainton Moses was an excellent colleague. He
confined himselr entirely to English ; in that subject he took classes in all
parts of the school, and his work was always well and methodically done.
He taught essay-writing well, and was very skilful in appreciating the relative
value of boys' essays, which is not easy. He was much looked up to by boys,
and had considerable influence over them. On general points connected
with the management of the school he was one of the colleagues to whom I
most naturally turned for advice, and I have every reason to be grateful to
him.—Yours very sincerely, "H. W. Eve."
Mr. F. W. Levander, a master at University College School, writes
to me thus :—
s
252 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
" University College School, Gower-street, London, W.C.
"Ma<i 1893.
" Dear Sir,—My acquaintance with the lnte W. Stainton Moses com
menced in the year 1871, when he first became one of the masters here.
This acquaintance soon extended beyond the nature of that generally met
with between colleagues ; it ripened into a constantly increasing friendship,
which continued unbroken till his death. During the whole of this long
period ho always impressed me with the idea that ho was thoroughly
earnest and conscientious, and I believe that perfect reliance can be placed
on all his statements.—Yours faithfully, " F. W. Levander."
I have often heard Mr. Moses discussed by persons of opinions
opposed to his own ; and since I owe it to my readers to make the
present paper not merely eulogistic, but as accurately descriptive
as my materials allow, I feel bound to reproduce adverse criticisms. I
have, then, heard him, in his later years, characterised as an obstinate,
confused, and irritable controversialist. I have heard him described as
lacking in the grace of humility, and in that spirituality of tastes and
character which should seem appropriate to one living much in the
commerce of the Unseen. But I have never heard anyone who had
even the slightest acquaintance with Mr. Moses impugn his sanity or
His sincerity, his veracity or his honour.
Thus briefly,—and with a dispassionate coldness against which an
impulse of gratitude in my own heart rebels,—let the life of W.
Stainton Moses be here recorded. But now our narrative must pass at
a bound from the commonplace and the credible to bewildering and
inconceivable things. With the even tenour of this straightforward and
reputable life was inwoven a chain of mysteries which, as I have before
said, in what way soever they be explained, make that life one of the
most extraordinary which our century has seen. For his true history
lies, not in the everyday events thus far recorded, but in that series of
physical manifestations which began in 1872 and lasted for some eight
years, and that series of automatic writings and trance-utterances
which began in 1873, received a record for some ten years, and did
not, as is believed, cease altogether until the earthly end was near.
These two series were intimately connected ; the physical pheno
mena being avowedly designed to give authority to the speeches and
writings which professed to emanate from the same source. There is no
ground for separating the two groups, except the obvious one that tho
automatic phenomena are less difficult of credence than the physical.
Since, however, to the physical we must needs come sooner or later,
it seems the simplest plan to place them first, as coming first in
chronological order. I shall, therefore, proceed to describe some of
these sittings, mainly by quotation from Mr. Moses' contemporary
notes.
Mr. Moses' notes, however, are not the only records of theie experi
The Experiences of W. Staintan Moses. 253
ments. For almost all the sittings which he describes, and for some
which he does not describe, there is (as already stated) a second detailed,
independent, contemporary record, by Mrs. Stanhope Speer, and for
many of the sittings a third record, also independent and contempora
neous, although very brief, by Dr. Speer. For some few of them there
is also a similar record by Mr. Percival ; whose memory also confirms
the other accounts. Parts of Mr. Moses' own record, indeed, are
avowedly derived from the other sitters, since he depended upon them
for information as to what went on when he was in trance. But he
has always, I think, made this distinction clear in his notes. His note
books of these phenomena, I may add, were very privately kept, and
even Mrs. Speer tells me that she has never read any of them except
the first. Curiously enough, therefore, much of what I now print has
actually never been read till now, so far as I can discover, by anyone
except the writer himself. And a certain combination of accidents has
been needed even now to enable these passages, after their twenty years
of privacy, to see at last the light of day.
Mrs. Stanhope Speer's notes have, as already stated, been for the
most part already published in Light, so that the reader can judge for
himself as to their accordance with Mr. Moses' record. They are
largely concerned with trance-utterances of which Mr. Moses was
unconscious, but the description of the physical phenomena seems to me
as nearly identical in the two series of records as can be expected from
two separate observers. I have not thought it needful to reprint here
more than a few passages of Mrs. Speer's, where, for some reason or
other, her account seems to supply a useful complement to Mr. Moses
own.
Dr. Speer's notes, which are short, I have printed almost in extenso,
—interwoven with Mr. Moses' own. They were written on a loose sheet
of paper and in two small note-books, which do not appear to have
been shown to anyone but Mr. Moses, among whose papers at Bedford
they were found. He printed some extracts from them in Light. An
important statement from Dr. Speer is also incorporated in Mr. Moses'
Researches in Spiritualism, and will be quoted below. I may add that
Mrs. Speer, examining Dr. Speer's private diary, has found there also
short records of seances, concordant, though not verbally identical,
with the accounts given in his note-books. These records extend
further than the note-books, and some of them also will be found below.
Several passages by Mr. F. W. Percival, already printed, will be
found below ; and Mr. Percival has verbally confirmed to me the
correctness of Mrs. Speer's record of those sittings at which he was
himself present. Much indeed which is there given was taken down
by Mr. Percival himself.
I have spoken of these records as contemporaneous. Mrs. Stanhope
254 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Speer tells me that her notes were habitually written on the day of the
sitting, or at latest on the morrow. As to Dr. Speer's and Mr. Moses'
notes it is now impossible to be equally certain, except in Mr. Moses'
books of automatic script, in which every entry begins with a record of
the day, and often of the hour and the place, of writing. But the inci
dental phrases, and the changes of pen and handwriting, in his note
books of physical phenomena lead me to think that his notes were
roughly jotted down daily, and written out in the note-book either at
once or at intervals of a few days. He says himself that they " were
very regularly written when the events of the seance were fresh in my
memory." This point is the less important because, as I have said, the
various series of records are so concordant that (unless it be suggested
that they were fabricated to suit each other, though with a show of
independence) it is clear that they must all have been written while the
events were fresh in the recorders' minds.
The passages which I have selected for quotation are simply such
as best illustrate the subject matter ;—the most striking and charac
teristic samples of the recorded phenomena. This may not, perhaps,
be the most politic course, in view of the reader's difficulties of belief :
but (as already implied) there seems no valid ground for selecting what
he might regard as the least incredible among so many incredibilities.
The evidence for all the incidents is practically the same ;—the whole
group of witnesses are as fully pledged, say, to the falling of pearls
from the air as to the automatic script or the trance-phenomena. I at
least can see no via media which can be plausibly taken. The
permanent fraud of the whole group, or the substantial accuracy of all
the records, are the only hypotheses which seem to me capable of
covering the facts. At any rate, before further discussing this point, I
propose to quote at sufficient length to allow my readers to form their
own judgment. My only personal contribution to the data before us
lies in my somewhat confident impression that my friends whom I am
thus frankly discussing are and were in the habit of speaking the truth.
There are, indeed, two subsidiary points on which I have had a
clear principle to guide me to certain omissions. In the first place, I
have almost wholly omitted Mr. Moses' accounts of his sittings with
other mediums. What in those sittings is important for our present
purpose may be briefly summarised as follows :—
1. Mr. Moses spent much time and trouble in sitting with many
paid and one or two private mediums. He was in the habit of at once
recording the results in private note-books and trying to decide
whether the phenomena were genuine or no. So far we have addi
tional indication of a serious and reasonable interest in such matters,
as against the view that his own experiences are attributable to
hallucination or fraud.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 255
2, As an observer he seems to me to have been about at the average
level of that epoch. Several times he detected fraud ; once at least he
was convinced by a manifestation afterwards absolutely proved to have
been fraudulent. On some other occasions, while it is not certain that
he was deluded, he shows a very imperfect perception of possibilities of
deceit. But his degree of acumen as a detective is of little importance
to our present inquiry.
3. More important is the question as to the relation between these
seances with other mediums and his own manifestations. He
frequently asked the l: guides " or " controls " of his automatic writing
their opinion on what he had witnessed. Did those " controls," we
may ask, ever vouch for the genuineness of what was afterwards proved
to be false 1 or did they, on the other hand, show that kind of intimate
and infallible detective power which might be expected from observers
freed from the trammels of the flesh ? The evidence is to my mind
inconclusive either way. The " controls " themselves are of various
types ; and there is one rare " control " ("Magus"), to be later discussed,
whose utterances seem to me shifty and exaggerated, in a way very
common in automatic script, and who does apparently endorse a com
plete impostor. The utterances of other " controls " for the most part
reflect Mr. Moses' own opinions on other mediums, or are sometimes
more severe. 1 But the question which is of most interest, and which
1 After a sitting with Mr. Williams, which Mr. Moses had recorded as fully con
vincing, the following remarkable colloquy occurs in an automatic note-book (Book
XV., p. 1.)
Aug. !MA, 1874, Bedford.
Q. Was anyone present at the last seance at Mrs. F.'st I was much impressed.
A. Yes. I was not present myself but our friends were there. We do not advise
you to rest much on that.
y. What 1 I thought it conclusive proof.
A. You must use your own judgment. We do but warn you to be careful.
I}. Do you mean to say it was not genuine ?
A. We only urge you to be wary. The manifestation was suspicious and is not to
be depended on.
Q. I am surprised. Who writes ?
A. It is I,—1 1 : S : D. [Imperator, Servus Dei, the assumed name of Mr. Moses'
principal guide.l
Q. Then you will tell me. Am I to understand that the manifestation was not of
a materialised form?
A We do not feel it part of our work to save you from the use of your own
powers. You are warned. Exercise your observing faculties.
Q. But I am bewildered.
A It is needful for you to work through such experience. We may not save you
from it. Only be wary.
Q. I have long wanted information about those forms and have had grave doubts,
but I have believed in J.K. [John King.l
A. It is not our plan to give you any further information now. We only say that
what was then presented was dubious.
C£ But I am to write about it. Was it a materialisation at all ? Is there such a
thing?
25G Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
is now insoluble, iirises when Mr. Moses and his accustomed guides
concur in maintaining the genuineness of certain phenomena occurring
in the presence of a medium whose occasional fraud neither Mr. Moses
nor his guides deny. Something of this sort is the case with regard to
the " spirit photographs" of the late Mr. Hudson. Hudson was clearly-
shown to have occasionally cheated, and was once actually caught
cheating—in a most rudimentary manner—by Mr. Moses himself.1
Nevertheless, if such things as genuine spirit photographs shall after
wards be shown to exist, then these photographs of Hudson's and the
accompanying statements made by the automatic script, will deserve
careful reconsideration.
The second point on which omissions from the manuscript are
A. You will know all in due time, but that was not reliable. We urge you to Un
careful. You are always careful, as you think. But be wary as to generalising too
rapidly. There is in the manifestation of the lower spirits much deception, nor can
you ever be sure that such is not being praotised. It is so in all the manifestations in
which the more material spirits are concerned.
Q. You do not tell me much.
A. We do not purpose to do so. We only warn. It was not reliable.
Q. But I had my hand in J. K.'s and the other on the medium's body. There
could be no deception there.
A. On the medium's boot, but not on his body, as Kabbila informs us. But we
will go no further. It is not our habit to go so far. Seek not further information.
It will not be given. We do not wish to communicate at length now. You have
done all that you are capable of doing.
ti. But I want to ask further. Are my senses good for nothing, or am I so easily
deceived ?
A. No, no. Neither. But you know nothing of occult influence when deceiving
spirits are present. The mixture of the true and false would make it impossible for
you to arrive at fact. Hence have we warned you so urgently to beware of the intro
duction of such. They are fatal to our work. Cease now.
t I : S: D. [Iniperator, Servus Dei.l
t R. [Rector.l
(Two hours later—same day—evening.)
A. The chief will not speak. He is very cautious. But I saw and can testify. It
was all bad.
Q. How do you know 1 I can't believe it.
A. It was all bad. John King was not there ; but another who deceived.
Q. How in the world am I to know then ? I could not tell.
A. You would have known if you had been woll, and we were not able to protect
you against false spirits.
Q. How am I to know that you aro not mistaken t or if you are right, how am I
to know what is true and what false ?
A. We have already told you that false and deceiving spirits always do abound in
such circles. Hence it is that you have been so warned of the danger of the assaults
of the undeveloped. The chief has told you to beware of such. The warning is.
needed.
(I. Then you mean to say that you were there, and that what I mistook for J.K.
was the medium. I don't want to misunderstand you.
A. Yes.
1 Thisseems to be perhaps the only recorded instanceof actual detection of Hudson
in flagrante delicto. See Mrs. Sidgwick's remarks in Proceeding!, Vol. VII., p. 274-
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 257
necessary concerns the alleged identity of some of the communicating
intelligences. As a general rule the same alleged spirits both
manifested themselves by raps, &c, at Mr. Moses' sittings with his
friends, and also wrote through his hand when he was alone. In this, as
in other respects, Mr. Moses' two series of sittings—when alone and in
company—were concordant, and, so to say, complementary ;—explana
tions being given by the writing of what had happened at the seances.
When " direct writing " was given at the seances the handwriting of
each alleged spirit was the same as that which the same spirit was in
the habit of employing in the automatic script. The claim to
individuality was thus in all cases decisively made.
Now the personages thus claiming to appear may be divided
roughly into three classes :—
A.—First and most important are a group of persons recently
deceased, and sometimes, as will be seen, manifesting themselves
at the stances before their decease was known through any ordinary
channel to any of the persons present. These spirits in many instances
give tests of identity, mentioning facts connected with their earth-
lives which are afterwards found to be correct. With all such cases
we shall have in the next paper to deal at length.
B.—Next comes a group of personages belonging to genera
tions more remote, and generally of some distinction in their day.
Grocyn, the friend of Erasmus, may be taken as a type of these. Many
of these also contribute facts as a proof of identity, which facts, as in
Grocyn's case given below, are sometimes more correct than the con
scious or admitted knowledge of any of the sitters could supply. In
such cases, however, the difficulty of proving identity is increased (as
will be seen later on) by the fact that most (though not all) of the
facts thus given are readily accessible in print, and may conceivably
have either been read and forgotten by Mr. Moses, or have become
known to him by some kind of clairvoyance.
C.—A third group consists of spirits who give such names as
Rector, Doctor, Theophilus, and, above all, Imperator. These from
time to time reveal the names which they assert to have been theirs in
earth-life. These concealed names are for the most part both more
illustrious, and more remote than the names in Class B,—and it is
these which will here be withheld. This was the express wish of Mr.
Moses himself, who justly felt that the assumption of great names is
likely to diminish rather than to increase the weight of the com
munication. He felt this in his own person ; and for a long while one
of his main stumbling-blocks lay in these lofty and unprovable claims.
Ultimately he came to believe even in these identities, on the general
ground that teachers who had given him so many proofs both of their
power and of their serious interest in his welfare were not likely to
258 Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
have deceived him on such a point. But he did not count upon a
similar belief in others, and he expressly wished to avoid seeming to
claim special authority for the teachings on the ground of their alleged
authorship. It must be added also that some of these teachings them
selves asserted that when the name of some spirit long removed from
earth was given, the recipient must sometimes take this to imply a
stream of influence emanating from that spirit, rather than his own
presence in person.1
"The higher spirits who come to your earth are influences or emanations.
They are not what you describe as persons, but emanations from higher
spheres. You must learn to recognise the impersonality of the higher mes
sages. When we first appeared to this medium he insisted on our
identifying ourselves to him. But many influences come through our name.
Two or three stages after death, spirits lose much of what you regard as in
dividuality, and become more like influences. I have now passed to the
verge of the spheres from which it is possible to return to you, and I can
influence without any regard to distance. I am very distant from you now."
With these special exceptions, made on the grounds above explained,
the quotations which follow are fully representative of the series of
Mr. Moses' notes of physical phenomena. These notes, as already
stated, were contained in five books, numbered by me IB, 2 B, 3 B,
4 B, 5 B,—of which the first is missing.
The now missing 1 B (as is incidentally stated by Mr. Moses) con
tained the early experiments, and was the note-book from which he
took much of the material for certain papers summarising those experi
ments which he printed in Human Nature in 1874. I shall therefore
begin with quoting the important parts of this summary, which has
been long out of print. The subsequent direct quotations from the
note-books will explain some points which the summary leaves obscure ;
for instance, as to the amount of observation which Mr. Moses, in his
normal state, was able to give to the phenomena, and the degree to
which he depended upon information from his fellow-sitters.
One word more before the citations begin. It must be remembered
that the phenomena here to be described, strange and grotesque as they
often seem, cannot be called meaningless. The alleged operators are
at pains throughout to describe what they regarded as the end, and
what merely as the means to that end. Their constantly avowed
object was the promulgation through Mr. Moses of certain religious
and philosophical views ; and the physical manifestations are through
out described as designed merely as a proof of power, and a basis for
the authority claimed for the serious teachings.2
1 1 have here had to draw a somewhat arbitrary line, and have decided to withhold
all names more ancient and venerable than that of Seneca.
a Spirit Teachings, which includes many of these communications, has juBt been
republished with a Life by Mr. Charlton Speer.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 259
Qugtations from Mr. Moses' " Researches in Spiritualism." 1
" All that I have described [of movement] occurs readily when the
table is untouched. Indeed, when the force is developed, we have found
it better to remove the hands and leave the table to its own devices.
The tilting above noticed has been even more marked when the sitters
have been removed from it to a distance of about two feet. It has
rapped on the chair and on the floor, inclined so as to play into a hand
placed on the carpet, and has been restored to its normal position when
no hand has touched it. The actual force required to perform this
would be represented by very considerable muscular exertion in a man
of ordinary strength.
" We had ventured on one occasion, contrary to direction, to add to
our circle a strange member. Some trivial phenomena occurred, but
the usual controlling spirit did not appear. When next we sat, he
came ; and probably none of us will easily forget the sledge-hammer
blows with which he smote the table. The noise was distinctly audible
in the room below, and gave one the idea that the table would be
broken to pieces. In vain we withdrew from the table, hoping to
diminish the power. The heavy blows increased in intensity, and
the whole room shook with their force. The direst penalties were
threatened if we again interfered with the development by bringing in
new sitters. We have not ventured to do so again ; and I do not think
we shall easily be persuaded to risk another similar objurgation.
" M r. Serjeant Cox 2 records a curious instance of the exercise of this
force, in the second volume of his very interesting work, " What am
11 In the cases specified above, the table was a small square one,
firmly placed on four legs, and weighing about 40ib. The dining-
table of Serjeant Cox, on the contrary, was very massive ; so heavy,
that the united exertions of two strong men were required to move it.
The experiment is so curious that I extract the account :—
" On Tuesday, June 2nd, 1873, a personal friend came to my residence in
Russell Square to dress for a dinner party to which we were invited. He
had previously exhibited considerable power as a Psychic. Having half an
hour to spare, we went into the dining-room. It was just six o'clock, and
of course broad daylight. I was opening letters ; he was reading the Times.
My dining-table is of mahogany, very heavy, old-fashioned, six feet wide,
nine feet long. It stands on a Turkey carpet, which much increases the
difficulty of moving it. A subsequent trial showed that the united efforts
of two strong men standing were required to move it one inch. There was
1 Researches in Spiritualism during the Years 1872-3. By M. A. Oxon. Pages 21-23,
28-30, 34-39, 41-42, 49-54, 5G-57, 59-C2, 60-72 are here reprinted, as pp. 259-283 of this
paper.
a It is worth mentioning that Serjeant Cox (who orally described this scene to
me) was not himself a " Spiritualist," but ascribed these and similar phenomena to a
power innate in the medium's own being.—F.W.H.M.
2G0 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
no cloth upon it, and the light fell full under it. No person was in the room
but my friend and myself. Suddenly, as we were sitting thus, frequent and
loud rappings came upon the table. My friend was then sitting holding the
newspaper with both hands, one arm resting on the table, the other on the
tack of chair, and turned sideways from the table, so that his legs and feet
were not under the table, but at the side of it. Presently the solid table
quivered as if with an ague fit. Then it swayed to and fro so violently as
almost to dislocate the big pillar-like legs, of which there are eight. Then
it moved forward about three inches. I looked under it to be sure that it
was not touched : but still it moved, and still the blows were loud upon it.
"This sudden access of the Force at such a time and in such a place,
with none present but myself and my friend, and with no thought then of
invoking it, caused the utmost astonishment in both of us. My friend said
that nothing like it had ever before occurred to him. I then suggested that
it would be an invaluable opportunity, with so great a power in action, to
make trial of motion without contact, the presence of two persons only, the
daylight, the place, the size and weight of the table, making the experiment
a crucial one. Accordingly we stood upright, he on one side of the table,
I on the other side of it. We stood two feet from it, and held our hands
eight inches above it. In one minute it rocked violently. Then it moved
over the carpet a distance of seven inches. Then it rose three inches from
the floor on the side on which my friend was standing. Then it rose equally
on my side. Finally my friend held his hands four inches over the end of
the table, and asked that it would rise and touch his hand three times. It
did so ; and then, in accordance with the like request, it rose to my hand
held at the other end to the same height above it and in the same manner."
" Another singular instance occurred during a visit that I made to
a gentleman interested in this subject.. After some conversation, it was
suggested that we should try the effect of placing our hands on a pillar
work-table belonging to his wife. It was filled with reels and tapes,
and the appliances of needlework. We had scarcely touched it when
it began to move. It danced about like a live thing ; executed a series
of gyrations, first on one foot and then on another ; and finally lay
down on the floor and jerked all its contents about the room. It rose
again unaided, bounded off the floor, and waltzed round the room.
When it was still I held my hand over it, and it began to quiver, and
finally rose from the floor until it touched my hand, which was ten or
twelve inches above it. It afterwards rose to the height of eighteen
inches or two feet. While this was going on, a column of. light was
visible over it.
"Once more, motion without contact, directed by evident intelligence,
is seen markedly in the following instance :—1 was calling on a friend,
and the conversation fell on the phenomena of Spiritualism. A sitting
was proposed, and nothing, or almost nothing, occurred. We were
quite alone in the room, which was well lighted. We drew back from
the table, intending to give up the attempt. My friend asked why
nothing occurred. The table, untouched by us, rose and gently touched
The Experiences of W. Stuinton Moses. 2G1
my throat and chest three times. I was suffering from severe bronchial
symptoms, and was altogether below par. After this no rap or move
ment could be elicited, and we were fain to accept the explanation of
our want of success.
" My first personal experience of levitation was about five months
after my introduction to Spiritualism. Physical phenomena of a very
powerful description had been developed with great rapidity. We were
new to the subject, and the phenomena were most interesting. After
much movement of objects, and lifting and tilting of the table, a small
hand organ, a child's plaything, was floated about the room, making a
most inharmonious din. It was a favourite amusement with the little
Puck-like invisible who then manifested. One day (August 30th, 1872)
the little organ was violently thrown down in a distant corner of the
room, and I felt my chair drawn back from the table and turned into
the comer near which I sat. It was so placed that my face was turned
away from the circle to the angle made by the two walls. In this
position the chair was raised from the floor to a distance of, I should
judge, twelve or fourteen inches. My feet touched the top of the
skirting-board, which would be about twelve inches in height. The
chair remained suspended for a few moments, and I then felt myself
going from it, higher and higher, with a very slow and easy movement.
I had no sense of discomfort nor of apprehension. I was perfectly
conscious of what was being done, and described the process to those
who were sitting at the table. The movement was very steady, and
occupied what seemed a long time before it was completed. I was
close to the wall, so close that I was able to put a pencil firmly against
my chest, and to mark the spot opposite to me on the wall-paper. That
mark, when measured afterwards, was found to be rather more than
six feet from the floor, and, from its position, it was clear that my head
must have been in the very corner of the room, close to the ceiling. I
do not think that I was in any way entranced. I was perfectly clear
in my mind ; quite alive to what was being done, and fully conscious
of the curious phenomenon. I felt no pressure on any part of my body,
only a sensation as of being in a lift, whilst objects seemed to be passiDg
away from below me. I remember a slight difliculty in breathing, and
a sensation of fulness in the chest, with a general feeling of being
lighter than the atmosphere. I was lowered down quite gently, and
placed in the chair, which had settled in its old position. The measure
ments and observations were taken immediately, and the marks which
I had made with my pencil were noted. My voice was said at the
time to sound as if from the corner of the room, close to the ceiling.
" This experiment was more or less successfully repeated on nine
other occasions. On the 2nd September, 1872, I see from my records
that I was three times raised on to the table, and twice levitated in the
2G2 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
corner of the room. The first movement on to the table was very
sudden—a sort of instantaneous jerk. I was conscious of nothing until
I found myself on the table—my cltair being unmoved. This, under
ordinary circumstances, is what we call impossible. I was so placed
that it would have been out of my power to quit my place at the table
without moving my chair. In the second attempt I was placed on the
table in a standing posture. In this case I was conscious of the with
drawal of my chair and of being raised to the level of the table, and
then of being impelled forward so as to stand upon it. I was not
entranced, nor was I conscious of any external pressure. In the third
case I was thrown on to the table, and from that position on to an
adjacent sofa. The movement was instantaneous, as in the first
recorded case ; and though 1 was thrown to a considerable distance,
and with considerable force, I was in no way hurt. At the time that
I lay on the sofa I felt the chair in which I had been sitting, and
which would be four feet from where I lay, come and press my back
several times. It was finally placed on the table.
" The levitations were of a character similar to the one described
before, with the addition of one very important particular. On the
wall behind my chair was an oil-painting in an old-fashioned massive
frame. The frame projected from the wall far enough to allow my arm
to rest upon it, as my dust-covered sleeve afterwards testified. This
frame was about eight inches from the ceiling. I remember distinctly
being raised until my hand touched the top of this frame. I was then
turned round, and my body was longitudinally extended over the table
until my feet were close to the head of one of the sitters. I remained
in that position long enough for it to be carefully ascertained by passing '
the hand over my feet and legs. In this case the lowering to the
ground took place rapidly and suddenly : I surmise, from the fact of
my feet and legs having been touched. This demonstration, which had
agitated me, closed the seance ; and while we were preparing to leave
the room another display of force under well-ascertained conditions
took place. We had risen from the table, and one of the party was
near the door. A chair was close to his right hand; I was three yards
from him, when suddenly, from the corner in which I had been sitting,
a footstool darted across the room as though it had been violently
kicked, struck the chair near the door, and knocked it down with a
great clatter. I saw the occurrence, which was in fair light, and very
convincing as a display of force. The footstool ran along the floor as
though it had been forcibly kicked ; and started from a corner near
which no human being was standing.
"These phenomena of levitation have presented themselves on a few
,other occasions ; but the most marked instances have been those above
,described. I have discouraged them as much as possible, from a dislike
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 263
to violent physical manifestations. I have little power to prevent a
special kind of manifestation, and none whatever to evoke any that I
may desire ; but I do, as far as I can, prevent the very uncomfortable
phenomena which at this period were so strongly developed. On
several occasions my chair has been raised from the ground slightly.
I have always checked any attempt to raise it beyond a few inches,
either by request, or by rising from it, and so checking the manifesta
tion. In the instances recorded above I was a passive agent, and did
not aid or check the exhibition of the force. . . .
" In dealing with the movement of objects within a closed room
without the intervention of human agency, I make reference to the
first startling manifestation which occurred in my presence. The date
was August 18th, 1872, and the occurrence was detailed at the time
in the columns of the Medium, as well as in the Liverpool Mercury.
Our circle had not met more than half-a-dozen times, and no results
had been elicited beyond raps and movement of the table. On the
day named a remarkable access of the force was manifest throughout
the day, commencing with raps on the table during breakfast. The
day was Sunday, and we all went to church. On returning I found
on entering my bedroom, which adjoined the drawing-room on the
first floor, that three articles had been so placed on the bed as to
form an imperfect cross. My attention was drawn to them by loud
raps which followed me round the room. I called my friend, whose
guest I then was, and he observed the position of the articles, and
heard the loud rappings which followed me from chair to chair, as I
went round the room by way of experiment. Even whilst I was in the
room another article was brought and added to the cross. We thought
it well to establish beyond doubt the intervention of an agency not
human. As yet, though we ourselves had no doubt as to the agency
at work, still there was no conclusive proof that children or servants
might not have hoaxed us. To be sure, they could not make the raps,
seeing that my friend and I were alone in the room, but we thought it
well to exclude the possibility of such an explanation. Accordingly we
searched the room throughout—it contained no cupboards—bolted the
window, and locked the door, my friend and host pocketing the key.
At lunch our conversation was annotated by clear raps, and distinct
evidence of the presence of the force was never absent. As soon as
lunch was over we went to the locked room, and found two more
articles added. The room was again searched, and again locked by my
friend, who retained the key in his possession throughout, and we
returned to the dining-room. Raps loud and constant followed us,
and the heavy dining-table, with all its load of dessert and decanters
and glasses, was moved several times out of its place. Another visit
of inspection discovered other additions, and this went on until 5 p.m.,
264 The Experiences of W. Stuinton Moses.
when a complete cross extending the whole length of the bed was
made entirely of little articles from my toilet-table. My friend, his
wife, and myself were together all the afternoon, so we were not the
unconscious authors of the mystery. The door was locked and the key
never left my host's pocket, so no human being played a trick. Indeed,
there was no one who could or would do so. The room was in a public
part, next to the drawing-room. The children were with us, and were
incapable of such tricks. The servants were old and trusted, and knew
nothing of Spiritualism, nor of what was going on. Independently,
therefore, of the messages which were constantly being given through
out the day, and of the direct writing which informed us of the reason
for this remarkable manifestation, we are able to assert with confidence
that human intervention was impossible. The formation of that cross,
by a slow process of growth in a locked room, during a bright August
afternoon in broad sunlight, remains in my mind one of the most
remarkable instances of assured intervention by invisible agency with
which I am acquainted. Nor is it the less remarkable that it occurred
at the very outset of my experience, while I was yet comparatively new
to the subject, as though to overthrow scepticism by one fatal blow,
and to furnish by anticipation an answer to the theory lately put
forward by Mr. Serjeant Cox : ' Psychics are developed. Their power
grows with practice. The phenomena are not produced immediately
and together, but by slow degrees. None of liiem has found himself
suddenly possessed of the power to produce any but the commonest indi
cations of its presence.1 (The italics are mine.) Here was no circle
formed for the purpose of eliciting phenomena. I had undergone no
process of development ; and though I object to the use of the word
' produce,' seeing that it is not properly applicable, still what was then
produced was by no means ' the commonest indication of the presence '
of the force.
[I subjoin an account of this incident by Dr. Speer, found by Mrs. Speer
on a loose sheet of paper. He had apparently made the sketches, which
were reproduced by Mr. Moses in Light for February 19th, 1892, but which
I deem it needless to give here.—F.W.H.M.]
August 17th, 1872.—On this day the Rev. W. S. Moses, self, and wife
resumed our evening seances. We chose the back dining-room of the
house, which we had only entered a few days previous ; the table being
a heavy square table with a deal top and having oilcloth sewn over it. We
hud scarcely drawn our chairs up to the table and laid our hands on it,
when it was violently tilted up two or three times, Mrs. S. being so
astonished, if not alarmed, at the sudden and violent nature of the move
ment as to express a wish that it might not be repeated. Raps of various
kinds now began all around Sir. M. ; on his chair, in the centre of the table,
on the floor, &o. Thuds were also heard in various places, and scrapings on
the floor—in fact, as many as seven different kinds of sound were heard.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 265
Mr. M. was moved away from the table, turned round in his chair, and
pushed against the wall. He was then brought up to the table. The table
was then moved half round without being touched, it lifted itself up again,
and on questions being asked as to who was present and the nature of the
spirits, we were informed that there were forty-nine spirits present, that all
were good, and were commissioned to take charge of the sitters.
On Sunday morning, August 18th, 1872, my wife and family, and the
Rev. W. Moses, who had only arrived on Friday night, went to St. George's
Church, Douglas, Isle of Man. On returning, the latter went into his
bedroom, and immediately came out and called me to witness the manner in
which during his absence certain articles of toilet, &c., to wit, a writing-case,
a fly-book, and a pocket note-book, had been symmetrically placed on the
centre of the bed. We at once noticed the crucial appearance exhibited and
hazarded a guess as to the intention thereof. We left the room and shortly
after returned, when we found that a skull cap lying on the chest of
drawers had been placed on the bed post, while the clerical white
collar which Mr. M. had removed not many minutes before had been placed
like a halo around the upper portion of the developing cross (fig. 2). (It
should here be noticed that our expressed surmises as to the design
apparently in progress were confirmed by various loud distinct raps on the
foot-board.) We again left the room for a time, and found that now the
lower limb of the cross had been lengthened by the addition of two ivory-
backed clothes-brushes (fig. 3). We descended to dinner, having locked the
door and taken the key with us. After dinner and while sitting round the
table at dessert, the conversation naturally (on the children leaving) reverted
to these extraordinary proceedings, when immediately manifestations com
menced all around Mr. Moses, raps on the table, thuds on the floor, raps, loud
and repeated, on the back of his chair. A tune played on the table with my
fingers was accurately imitated, the table with all on it was moved out of
its place and everything shaken. This was put a stop to by request, but the
milder phenomena persisted, and, it may be said once for all, continued till
9 p.m. Mr. M. suggested that I should go up to his room again. I did so,
and found on unlocking the door that two paper-knives had been placed like
rays to the right and left of the cross bar of the cross (fig. 4). I again
locked the door, put the key in my pocket, and came downstairs. In about
half-an-hour we returned and found that two additional articles had been
appended (fig. 5). We again left and locked the door, and on return after
another half-hour the cross had been fully developed into halo and rays,
while the skull cap had been placed above all as in a crown (fig. 6). During
each examination, as before, our comments had been acknowledged by raps,
and now, as we meditated going to church, we canvassed the propriety of
removing the articles from the bed, in the event of the servants wishing to
arrange the room for the night. It now occurred to Mrs. S. that before doing
so an opportunity of communicating by writing should be afforded, and
accordingly a piece of paper and an aluminium pencil were placed on the bed.
We retired, locked the door, and on returning shortly ascertained that
nothing within had taken place. A piece of red flannel was then placed
under tho paper and wo again retired, myself being the last again to leave,
and locking the door behind me. On returning we found that the paper had
been written upon (tig. 7). To us the initials were unknown, but Mr. M. at
206 The Experiences of W. Stainton Hoses.
once pronounced the monogram to be that of two friends, man and wife, botb
departed, and one of whom had been buried on the Tuesday previous. The
other initials [confusedly given] were those of a long-departed cousin, who
in his lifetime had been strongly attached to Mr. M. The number 46 at first
sight was puzzling, but taken in connection with the three autographs, it at
once explained the assertion of the spirits that there had been 49 present
on the previous evening. Before replacing the various articles Mr. M.
suggested that although the alphabet had hitherto been invariably refused
it might now be acceptable as a means of explaining these phenomena. On
asking the question the answer was now in the affirmative, and the alphabet
being called out by myself and the message taken down by Mr. Moses,
we received the following :—
Cross. We are happy.
" I come now to deal with the carrying of objects into a locked
room, and the passage of solid objects through material obstacles.
"The days immediately following the day above mentioned (August
18th) were filled with instances of such phenomena. I have before
noticed the prevalence at certain times of certain phenomena ; and
have stated my belief that this is due to the operation for a time of a-
particular communicating spirit, who gives place in turn to another,
who produces a different manifestation. This was so at this time. My
records of seances during the latter half of the month of August
show over fifty instances in which objects from different parts of the
house were placed upon the table round which we were sitting. They
were invariably small, and were generally thrown on the table ; such
of them, however, as would easily break were placed quietly, and our
attention was drawn to them by a request for light. They came
from all parts of the house indifferently, and even from outside ; from
my own bed-room, and from rooms which I had never entered ; whilst
we were sitting with joined hands in expectation of some such occur
rence ; and whilst no seance was being held, and our minds were not
directed to the subject. It is in vain to attempt any exhaustive
record. I have not space for it ; and it would be but a wearisome
iteration of a ten times told tale. It will suffice if I mention some
instances, and dwell more particularly on the most remarkable cases
which I have observed.
"Our seances immediately after August 1 8th began to show instances
of this phenomenon ; and on the 21st a curious instance of it, and of
intelligent comment on conversation, occurred. The room in which we
used to meet opened by folding doors into the dining-room. In this
latter room my host and I were sitting in the twilight at the open
window, talking of the subject, and wondering much whether we were
deceived. Raps came, and we were told to go into the next room. We
stood by the table, and raps came again. ' To convince ' was spelt
out, and a small copy of Paradise Lost was gently placed on the table.
dR. STANHOPE TEMPLEMAN SPEER.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 267
We had all of us had it in our hands during the evening, and could
testify to its position on a book-shelf close to the window at which I
and my friend had been sitting.
" On August 28th seven objects from different rooms were brought
into the seance-room ; on the 30th, four, and amongst them a little
bell from the adjoining dining-room. We always left gas brightly
burning in that room and in the hall outside, so that if the doors were
opened even for a moment a blaze of light would have been let into the
dark room in which we sat. As this never happened we have full
assurance from what Dr. Carpenter considers the best authority, Com
mon Sense, that the doors remained closed. In the dining-room there
was a little bell. We heard it commence to ring, and could trace it by
its sound as it approached the door which separated us from it. What
was our astonishment when we found that in spite of the closed door
the sound drew nearer to us ! It was evidently within the room in
which we sat, for the bell was carried round the room, ringing loudly the
whole time. After completing the circuit of the room, it was brought
down, passed under the table, coming up close to my elbow. It rang
under my very nose, and went round about my head, then passed round
the circle, ringing close to the faces of all. It was finally placed upon
the table. I do not wish to theorise, but this seems to me to dispose of
arguments which would put forward the theory of our being psycholo-
gised, or of the object coming down the chimney, as an explanation of
this difficult subject.
"Another curious case occurred at a later date, October 14th, 1873;
our circle of three sitting alone. An unusual length of time elapsed
before anything occurred, and we were in the act of remarking this
when a little Parian statuette from an upper room in the house was
placed on the table. One of the party made a request for one of our
friends who usually communicates, asking that he might be fetched.
' We are doing so,' was spelt out by raps ; and as the sentence was
complete and answered our thoughts, we ceased to call over the
alphabet. However, it was called for again, and ' mething else ' was
spelt. We could form no idea what this might mean. It was repeated,
and after much puzzling it occurred to us to join it to the previous
message, and it then read, ' We are doing something else.' (What a
clear case of unconscious cerebration !) We were told to sit with joined
hands, and very soon an odour like Tonquin bean was apparent to all
of us. Something fell on the table, and light showed that there had
been brought from my friend's dressing-room a snuff-box which had
contained Tonquin bean. The box was closed, and the odour was
remarked before any of us had the remotest idea that the box was in
the room.
"With rare exceptions the objects brought seemed to come from
T
268 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
behind me. I have noticed this in cases where something has been
brought from a distant part of the seance-room. It is the same when
objects are brought from without, except in certain cases, such as that
above noted. I have more than once been struck on the top of the
head by objects as they have been converging on the table, and on one
occasion a heavy bronze candlestick, which was brought from the man
telshelf in a room near (January 25th, 1873), struck me a severe blow,
the effects of which remained for a day after. I will undertake to say
that I was not biologised on that occasion.
" Another exception to the rule of objects coming from behind me
occurred lately. A friend [Mr. F. W. Percival] had joined our circle,
and we sat in the dining-room, instead of our usual small seance-room.
The dining-table is very large, and he faced me with a good six feet of
mahogany between us. He remarked that he had never been present
when any object had been brought into the room from without, and
said how much he desired to witness such a case. The request was
made, and, contrary to rule, promptly answered. A round stone from
another room was gently thrown from behind, so as to strike his left
shoulder before rolling on to the table. The gentleman in whose house
we were [Dr. Speer] could testify to the exact position of the stone on
his study mantelshelf, and my friend had no doubt as to the direction
from which it came when it struck him. Like the bell, its presence
was first manifested in a part of the room opposite to, and most distant
from, me.
******
"Hitherto I have described phenomena which my eyes have wit
nessed,1 which have occurred while I was in full possession of my
faculties, and when my powers of observation were unimpaired. I come
now to a group, which, for convenience, I have classed together, where
the case is somewhat altered. I have, indeed, observed all the
phenomena of which I speak at many different times, and under
various circumstances, but not in their most perfect form of development.
In all cases where the large luminous appearances, which I am about
to describe, were most successfully presented, I was in a state of
unconscious trance. In a similar way, the most perfect musical sounds
are made when I cannot hear them ; and, as a general rule, to which
the exceptions are so rare as only to serve to establish the principle,
the best and most successful manifestations occur when the medium is
deeply entranced. The condition of absolute passivity on his part is
then most perfectly secured, and the force which the operators use can
be more safely drawn off. Over and over again have I heard this
passive state spoken of as an essential condition of success.
" The fact that I am entranced during the occurrence of the best
1 These phenomena are said to have sometimes occurred in light.—F.W.H.M.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 269
manifestations renders it difficult for me to give an accurate descrip
tion. I have endeavoured to remedy this by requesting those who
have witnessed specially notable phenomena to favour me with a
description of what they saw ; and I have been at pains to record a
faithful account immediately after each seance, drawing my information
from the impressions left on the minds of the sitters. My own records,
therefore, contain exact accounts of what I have seen myself, and,
further, of the descriptions given me by careful observers of phenomena
which occurred during my entrancement. These sources of informa
tion I have supplemented by accounts kindly furnished me, which I
print exactly as I have received them. As a consequence, I am able to
affirm that my descriptions and statements are trustworthy, and
within the margin of fact.
Sec. I.—Perfumes and waves of scent-laden air.
"In every circle with which I am acquainted the conditions are
harmonised by some means. Usually music is employed for that
purpose. It seems to have the effect of soothing the minds of the
sitters, and leading them to throw aside, for the time, thoughts of other
matters, while they dwell harmoniously on what is being attempted in
the circle. Whatever other effect music may have, I believe its sooth
ing property to be its chief merit. This harmonising is effected in our
circle by means of perfumes and waves of cool scented air. We are
never asked for music. If, very rarely, a musical box is set in motion,
its only effect is to elicit a peculiar muffled sound in the floor, and to
cause a vibration to be made in the room. By these sounds we know
of the presence of a particular intelligence, who so announces himself.
But they are never asked for again, and they apparently have no
harmonising effect. Singing is never introduced ; and any noise, even
of loud conversation, is checked at once. We are told to keep still.
But when a,ny opposing conditions are to be removed, then the room is
pervaded by odours of subtle and delicate, or strong, perfume. If a
new sitter is present, he or she is censed (if I may adopt the expression)
and so initiated. The chair which the stranger occupies is surrounded
by luminous haze, from which issues the perfume ; and very frequently
wet scent, more or less pungent according to conditions, is sprinkled
from the ceiling at the same time. If a new intelligence is to com
municate, or special honour to be paid to a chief, the room is pervaded
by perfumes which grow stronger as the spirit enters. This scenting
of the room in which we are about to meet will sometimes commence
many hours before we begin. Indeed, when we have been in the
country, far from the polluted atmosphere of smoke and dirt, charged
with the nameless odours that London breeds, the air of the seance-
room is always laden with perfumes. There is a subtle odour in ifc
2t
270 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
which is perpetually being changed. Sometimes the aroma of a flower
from the garden is drawn out, intensified, and insinuated throughout
the house. Sometimes the odour is like nothing of this earth's pro
duction, ethereal, delicate, and infinitely delightful. Sandal-wood used
to be a favourite, and rose, verbena, and odours of other flowers have
been plentifully used.
"I find it difficult to convey any idea of the subtle odours that have
been diffused throughout the room, or of the permanence of the scent.
It is usually the first manifestation and the last. The perfume is
sprinkled in showers from the ceiling, and borne in waves of cool air
round the circle, especially when the atmosphere is close and the air
oppressive. Its presence in a particular place is shown to me by the
luminous haze which accompanies it. I can trace its progress round
the circle by the light—and my vision has been many times corrobo
rated on this point by other sitters—and can frequently say to a certain
sitter, ' You will smell the scent directly. I see the luminous form
going to you.' My vision has always been confirmed by the exclama
tions of delight which follow.
" When we first observed this manifestation, it was attended by a
great peculiarity. The odour was circumscribed in space, confined to a
belt or band, beyond which it did not penetrate. It surrounded the
circle to the extent of a few feet, and outside of that belt was not
perceptible ; or it was drawn across the room as a cordon, so that it was
possible to walk into it and out of it again—the presence and absence
of the odour and the temperature of the air which accompanied it
being most marked. Judge Edmunds [in his book on Spiritualism]
especially notes the presence of an odour which was not diffused
through the room. He describes the sensation as being like a flower
presented to the nostrils at intervals. I should rather describe what
I observed as a scented zone or belt, perfectly defined and not more
than a few feet in breadth. Within it the temperature was cool and
the scent strong, outside of it the air was decidedly warmer, and no
trace of perfume was perceptible. It was no question of fancy. The
scent was too strong for that. And the edges of the belt were quite
clearly marked, so that it was possible, instantaneously, to pass from
the warm air of the room to the cool perfumed air of this zone. I do
not remember ever hearing of a precisely similar case to this, which
occurred repeatedly.
" I have known the same phenomenon to occur in the open air. I
have been walking with a friend, for instance, and we have walked into
air laden with scent, and through it again into the natural atmosphere.
We have gone back, and have found that the air in a certain locality—
generally a narrow belt—was distinctly perfumed, while the air on each
side bore no traces of scent. I have even known cases where wet scent
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 271
has been produced and showered down in the open air. On one special
occasion, in the Isle of Wight, my attention was attracted by the patter
of some fine spray on a lady's [Mrs. Speer's] silk dress, as we were
walking along a road. One side of the dress was plentifully besprinkled
with fine spray, which gave forth a delicious odour, very clearly
perceptible for some distance round.
" During a seance the scent is either carried, as it seems, round the
circle, and is then accompanied by cool air, or it is sprinkled down from
the ceiling of the room in liquid form. In the clairvoyant state I am
able to see and describe the process before the scent is sprinkled, and
can warn a special sitter not to look upwards. For, on certain occasions,
when conditions are not favourable, the scent is pungent and most
painful if it gets into the eye. At other times it is harmless, and causes
no pain whatever. I have had a quantity of it thrown into my eye,
and it has caused no more pain than water would. On the contrary, I
have seen the effect caused on another [Mrs. Speer] by a similar
occurrence. The pain caused was excruciating, the inflammation was
most severe, and the effects did not pass off for twenty-four hours or
more. In fact, whatever the liquid was, it caused severe conjunctivitis.
" This variety in the pungency and potency of perfume I attribute
to variety in the attendant circumstances. The illness of one of the
sitters will cause the scent to be coarse and pungent. Harmonious
conditions, physical and mental, are signalised by the presence of
delicate subtle odours, which are infinitely charming. I have said that
sometimes the odour of flowers, either in the house or garden, will be
intensified. A vase of fresh flowers put on the table causes the diffusion-
through the room of one or more of the odours of flowers in the bouquet.
I have observed the process of drawing out the natural perfume in this
way. We used frequently to gather fresh flowers, and watch the pro
cess. Flowers which had a very slight smell when gathered would, by
degrees, throw off such a perfume as to fill the room, and strike anyone
who came into it most forcibly. In this case the natural odour of the
flower was intensified, and the bloom received no harm. At other
times, however, some liquid was apparently put upon the blossom, and an
odour not its own given to it. In that case it invariably withered,
and died very rapidly. I have frequently had flowers in my button
hole scented in this way ; and the phenomena to which I refer are too
unmistakable, and have been too frequently observed, to leave any
room for doubt.
"Great quantities of dry musk have been from time to time thrown
about in the house where our circle meets. On a late occasion it fell in
very considerable quantities over a writing-desk at which a lady was
sitting, in the act of writing letters. It was mid-day, and no one was
near at the time, yet the particles of musk were so numerous as to
272 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
pervade the whole contents of the desk. They were placed, for no
throwing would have produced such a result, at the very bottom of the
desk, and between the papers which it contained. The odour was most
pronounced ; and the particles, when gathered together, made up a
considerable packet. Some time after this, when at a seance, I saw
something which looked like luminous dust on the table. .No odour
was perceptible, but in my clairvoyant state I saw a heap of luminous
particles which appeared to me extremely brilliant. I described it, and
putting out my hand I found that there really was a heap on the table.
I inquired what it was, and mtisk was rapped out. We demurred, for
no odour was perceptible, but the statement was reiterated. After the
seance we gathered up the dust, which looked like musk, but Iwd no
smell whatever. The next morning, however, the odour was powerful
enough ; and the powder still exists, and is indubitably very good
powdered musk. By what imaginable process can that phenomenon
have been accomplished ?
" I remember another occasion, amongst several, when, after a
seance, I was walking up and down smoking a cigar. The odour of strong
perfume was distinctly perceptible, in spite of the tobacco. On the
table lay a blotting pad of white paper. My eye fell on it, and I asked,
on the spur of the moment, whether some scent could not be sprinkled
so that we could see it there. The request was at once and repeatedly
complied with. The paper was drenched, and the odour from it was
very pronounced twenty-four hours afterwards. One of the astonishing
points connected with this matter is the quantity of liquid that is pro
duced. The table is covered with innumerable stains ; and if they be
removed, another seance will renew them. The spray appears to fall
everywhere, for the very fire-irons bear traces of its presence ; and I
am quite sure that the housemaid's opinion of the manifestation would
not be complimentary to the invisible operators.
" I must omit much that might be said, but in conclusion I append
an account of one remarkable manifestation, for which I am indebted
to the kindness of a friend who was present. Our hands were all
joined in a cluster in the middle of the table, and the quantity of
liquid must have exceeded half an ounce at least.
Statement by Mr. Percivaj,.
" In compliance with your request, I will describe as briefly as possible
what occurred at the dark seance held on the evening of March 18th, 1874,
when scent was produced so abundantly in the presence of Mrs. S. and
myself, while you were in a state of trance. The controlling spirit began by
speaking through you at some length, and we were told to expect unusual
manifestations. They commenced with a strongly-scented breeze, which
passed softly round the circle, its course being marked by a pale light. In
a few minutes it suddenly changed, and blew upon us with considerable
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 273
force, as if a pair of bellows had been employed, and the temperature of the
room was perceptibly lowered. After this liquid scent was sprinkled upon
us several times : it appeared to come from the top of the room, and fell
upon us in small drops. Finally we were told that a new manifestation
would be attempted, and that we were to prepare for it by joining hands and
holding the palms upwards. In this position we waited for two or three
minutes, and then I felt a stream of liquid scent poured out, as it were, from
the spout of a teapot, which fell on one side of my left hand, and ran down
upon the table. The same was done for Mrs. S. ; and to judge from our
impressions at the time, and from the stains on the table, a very considerable
quantity must have been produced. I may remark, in conclusion, that there
was no scent in the room before the seance, and that we could distinguish
several different perfumes which made the atmosphere so oppressive that we
were glad to seek a purer air so soon as the seance came to an end.
"F. W. P."
»*•****
" The first occasion on which we saw the large luminous appearances
with which we were for a time so familiar was on June 7th, 1873. By
that time we had become very familiar with the floating masses of
luminous vapour which I have before noticed ; and on several occasions
we had seen these masses condensed, so to say, until a distinct objective
light was formed. On this evening, however, at an ordinary seance, I
felt my chair withdrawn from the table to the distance of three or
four feet, and I was partially entranced, but not so completely as to
prevent me from recalling what happened. A number of cones of soft
light similar to moonlight appeared in succession, until a dozen or more
had been made. They presented the appearance of a nucleus of soft
yellow light, surrounded by a soft haze. They sailed up from a corner
of the room and gradually died out. The most conspicuous was shaped
like a mitre and was 8 or 9 inches in height. This was the first time
we saw lights of this description, and we determined to extemporise a
cabinet for the purpose of developing them. This was simply done by
throwing open the door between two rooms, and hanging in the door
way a curtain with a square aperture in the middle of it. On one side
of the curtain a table was put for the sitters ; on the other side I was
placed in an easy-chair, and was soon in a state of deep trance, from
which I never woke until the seance was concluded. What then took
place is described in the records of friends who were present. Large
globes of light such as I have described above sailed out of the aperture
and went into the room where the sitters were placed. They are described
as of the same soft, pale hue, like moonlight. They were sufficiently
bright to illumine the lintel and door posts, and to cast a strong reflec
tion into the room. Within the gauzy envelope was a bright point of
concentrated light, and the size varied considerably. The cone shape
predominated, but some were like a dumb-bell, and others like a mass
274 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
of luminous vapour revolving round and falling over a central nucleus
of soft yellow light. They seem to have been carried in a materialised
hand, a finger of which was shown at request by placing it in front of
the nucleus of light. Round each was soft drapery, the outline of
which was usually perfectly distinct.
" I append an account kindly furnished me by my friend Dr. Thom
son, of 4, Worcester Lawn, Clifton [now dead] :—
"The manifestations began with a luminous haze surrounding a small
point of bluish light, which latter gradually increased in size, apparently at
the expense of the surrounding hazy envelope, as it seemed to diminish as
the point of light increased, till it attained the size of one's closed fist. At
this size it remained for some time, until one of the sitters expressed dis
appointment at its not coming further into the room in which we were seated.
The mass of light then gradually enlarged till it became in bulk equal to an
ordinary sized water-melon. At the same time it approached us to apparently
within 5 feet of where we were sitting. At this time the perfumes which
had been brought during the earlier part of the evening were again showered
down upon us. The appearance of the light reminded me strongly of what
I have seen when an electric discharge is passed through an exhausted tube,
with the exception, of course, of the latter being momentary, whereas in the
present case the light continued more or less for nearly an hour. During the
latter part of the seance, the light emitted from this source was sufficiently
intense to light up the whole of the doorway opposite to which we were
placed ; but it struck me that the intensity of the light was feeble as com
pared with ordinary light, as it did not extend beyond a few feet from the
source."
" I have reserved for separate description some very remarkable
phenomena which occurred at four consecutive seances on August 9th,
10th, 11th, and 12th, 1873. I was on a holiday excursion with the
same friends who have witnessed from the first the development of the
phenomena that I have described. The weather was lovely, the scenery
grand, and, mentally and physically, we were in a harmonious condition.
Nothing heavier than the Spectator had engaged my mind, and my pen
had composed nothing more serious than a gossiping letter. No im
portunate editor clamoured for ' copy,' and the stifling August heat of
London was exchanged for the balmy air of a charming lough in the
North of Ireland. Our days were spent in a boat, lazily flogging the
water to tempt the wary trout to rise—exercise enough to invigorate
without tiring, while the jaded mind took rest, and the body was
refreshed by scenes of beauty. It is under such circumstances that
the physique is in most perfect order, and the mysterious force which
is used for these manifestations is generated most rapidly, while the
harmonious mental state disposes to complete passivity. I do not envy
the possessor of a mind so ill-regulated and a body so dyspeptic as to
fail of happiness in such surroundings. Accordingly, as might be
expected, our invisible friends were not slow to avail themselves of the
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 275
improved conditions. A synopsis of what actually occurred is carefully
compiled from notes written in detail at the time [by Dr. Speer], and
which have been kindly placed at my disposal :—
Statement by Dr. Speer.
" On the 10th of August, after some other phenomena, a large globe of
light rose from the side of the table opposite to me, and sailed up to the level
of our faces, and then vanished. It was followed by several more, all of
which rose up from the side opposite to me, and sometimes to the right and
sometimes to the left of the medium. At request the next light was placed
slowly in the centre of the table. It was apparently as large as a shaddock,
and was surrounded with drapery. At this time the medium was entranced,
and the controlling spirit informed me that he would endeavour to place the
light in the medium's hand. Failing in this, he said he would knock on the
table in front of me. Almost immediately a light came and stood on the
table close to me. 'You see ; now listen, I will knock.' Very slowly the
light rose up, and struck three distinct blows on the table. ' Now I will show
you my hand.' A large, very bright light then came up, and inside of it
appeared the materialised hand of the spirit. He moved the fingers about
close to my face. The appearance was as distinct as can be conceived. The
power having become exhausted, he exhorted me to wake the medium, make
him wash his face and hands in cold water, and to tell him nothing till that
had been done. He also insisted on my writing a close account of what had
been done.
" On the following evening I placed the paper containing the account on
the table, together with a pencil, and asked that the light might be brought
down upon it. This was done several times. The medium having become
entranced, I requested the controlling spirit to append his signature to the
document, if it were possible to do so. He said he would try. He then
brought a very large and bright light, and passed it up and down over the face
of the entranced medium, so that I could see it distinctly. He told me that
the folds which I saw round the light were drapery, and to prove it he
brought the light and passed the drapery over the back of my hand several
times. It was perfectly tangible. I asked that a light might be placed close
to my face. He assented, and told me to close my eyes until told to open
them. I did so, and on opening them I saw close to my eyes a large and very
bright light, the size of the globe of a moderator lamp. He told me to rub
my hands so as to generate more power, and very soon another large light,
held by a hand, appeared on the table. This time the hand appeared to be
outside of the drapery, and moved the fingers about freely, and receded from
the light, as though the lamp were held in another hand. After other lights
had been shown, I heard the pencil moving, and repeating his admonition of
the previous evening, he departed, leaving on the paper a specimen of direct
spirit caligraphy.
" I have omitted to say that the way of renewing the light when it grew
dim was by making passes over it with the hand. The lights were of the
kind described previously, and consisted of a nucleus which was said to be
brought by the controlling spirit, surrounded by a luminous haze, and an
envelope of drapery. They varied in size and luminosity, and seemed to be
276 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
more easily and fully developed when I rubbed my hands together or on my
coat. At one time a portion of a forearm was distinctly visible, and the hand
containing the light was pressed very distinctly on mine as it lay on the table.
I may add that all the cases recorded by me occurred when no other sitter
was present but myself. " S.T.S."
"These strange phenomena have now ceased for some time past.
The drain on the vital strength of the medium was too great to be con
tinued. As it was, the experiments made were attended by very great
subsequent prostration, and the phase passed away, as the levitations
described in Chapter I. ceased after a time. In the one case I strongly
objected to the manifestation ; in the other harm ensued. Both have
therefore ceased.
"Since the commencement of the present year we have had another
kind of light altogether, which is still shown occasionally. It is
apparently a little round disc of light, which twinkles like a star. It has
a dark side, which is generally turned towards me, so that while other
sitters have been carrying on a conversation, the answers being given
by this light, I have not been able to see it at all. It is very much
brighter than the large light, and more like a star. It flashes with
great rapidity, and answers questions by the usual code of signals. The
light usually hovers over my head, sometimes coming into the circle,
but more frequently floating in a distant corner of the room. It is not
apparently solid, nor does it seem to be surrounded with drapery.
" On a few occasions, not more than half a dozen, we have observed
a bright scintillating light, which apparently rests on the mantel-shelf.
It is about the size of a pigeon's egg, and looks like a large diamond lit
up with strong light.
" I have reserved for the last a description of the most remarkable
light, of quite a different kind, that I have ever heard or read of. It
appeared in greatest intensity on the eve of the year 1873, and has
since reappeared five times. On each occasion it diminished in
brilliancy, and when last it was seen had lost almost all its striking
character. It has not been seen for more than fifteen months now. In
this, as in much that I notice here, I rely for my description on notes
carefully taken at the time, and which now lie before me. When the
light was first seen I was so far under influence as to render my powers
of observation worthless, and before it had attained its full dimensions
and brilliancy I was deeply entranced. The description given by the
sitters is fortunately very minute. The light was first observed directly
behind us. At that time it was a tall column, about half an inch or
rather more in width, and six or seven feet high. The light was of a
bright golden hue, and did not illuminate objects in its neighbourhood.
For a minute a cross developed at its top, and rays seemed to dart from
it. Round my head was a similar sort of halo to that which clair
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 277
voyants describe round the heads of some persons, only in this case it
was perceptible by natural vision, for one of the sitters put out his
hand to ascertain the locality of the rays which he saw, and placed his
fingers directly on the top of my head. At this time I was not so deeply
entranced as to be unable to hear what was said, and, at request, I
moved my body from side to side. As I moved, the ray moved with
me, and the removal of my body discovered to the opposite sitter a
cluster of scintillating light, of an oblong shape, about the size of a
saucer, at the foot of the long pencil or ray before described. As my
body resumed its position it hid the lower part of the long ray of light
from view. Soon, however, the cross—as it had then become—com
menced to move, and gradually travelled from my back to my right
hand, always on or near the wall, until it had passed over an arc of 90°.
My friend, who had been watching this strange phenomenon with
absorbing interest, requested to be permitted to examine it more closely.
Leave having been given, he rose from his chair, went to the light, put
his face close to it, and passed his hand through it. He detected no
odour, nor did the light disappear as he touched it. No warmth came
from it, nor did it light up the room perceptibly. Both the long ray
and cluster remained visible until the seance was concluded.
" The sound which has since developed to such an extent was first
heard by us on March 23rd, 1873. At that time it resembled the
plucking of a string in mid air. It was faint, and only presented
itself at intervals. We called it the Lyre sound, for want of a better
name, and could make nothing out about it, except that a certain
imitation of it could be made by slightly touching the wires of a piano
at the upper notes. Tt could have been more perfectly imitated by
plucking the small strings of a harp, had one been at hand. I succeeded
also in making some resemblance to it by drawing my finger over the
wires of a musical clock which hangs on the wall of the room adjoining
that in which we usually sit. This clock is distinctly audible to us in
the seance-room, and soon its sound was counterfeited to perfection.
Although I could not exactly make out how it was done, I supposed
that the piano or clock must be used in some way to make a sound
which seemed to be in mid-air. This theory was soon upset, for the
sound came in rooms where there was no musical instrument ; even in
my own bedroom, where sometimes the sound has been so loud as to be
distinctly audible through the wall in an adjoining room. Two months
after its first appearance, it had become so loud that the vibration of
the table was very marked. The sound would traverse the room and
seem to die away in the distance, and suddenly burst forth into great
power over the table, which appeared in some inexplicable way to be
used as a sounding-board. The wood of the table vibrated under our
hands exactly as it would have done had a violoncello been twanged
278 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
while resting upon it. It was no question of fancy or delusion. The
sounds were at times deafening, and alternated between those made by
the very small strings of a harp and such as would be caused by the
violent thrumming of a violoncello resting on the top of a drum.
Sometimes in our midst, sometimes distant and soft, sometimes the
bass and treble sounds alternating, the sounds were the most inexplic
able that I have ever heard. When they once became established, they
were made almost continuously. We never sat without them, and they
formed almost the staple phenomenon of the seance. With them, as
with other phenomena, great variety was caused by good or bad con
ditions. Just as illness or atmospheric disturbance made the perfumes
and drapery coarse and unrefined, so the lyre sound became harsh,
unmusical, and wooden. It seemed to be far more dependent then on
material accessories. The table was used until at times the musical
twang would shado into a sort of musical knock, and finally become
an ordinary dull thud upon the table. Sometimes, too, we heard a
very distinct imitation, purposely done, I think, of a loose string.
When things were not all right, the sound would assume a most
melancholy, wailing character, which was indescribably weird and
saddening. It was not unlike the soughing of wind through trees in the
dead of night ; a ghost-like dreary sound that few persons would sit
long to listen to. That sound was always accompanied by black
darkness in the room, and we were always glad to take the hint and
close the sitting as soon as we could. We invariably found afterwards
that there had been some reason for this sadness.
" No point, indeed, connected with these strange sounds is more
remarkable than the intensity of feeling conveyed by them. They
contrive to render all the varieties of emotion which are conveyed by
the human voice. Anger and sadness, content and mirth, solemnity
and eagerness, are conveyed in a way quite inexplicable. In answering
our questions sometimes an eager and rapid request for alphabet will
be struck out, the notes and the quickness with which they are sounded
conveying precisely the idea of eagerness which a sharp interruption
by an impatient listener would give. The wailing sounds above
noticed seem at times almost to sob and shriek as if in a burst of sad
ness. Sometimes to a question put silence will be maintained for a
while, and then little, hesitating sounds will be made, very slowly and
tremulously, so as to convey perfectly the idea of uncertainty and
doubt. Then again the reply will come clear, sonorous, and immediate
as the ' I do' of a witness in the box who has no doubt as to the
answer he should give.
" As one instance amongst many to illustrate this intelligence in
sound, I record the following. Following our usual custom, we had
inquired as to the invisible intelligence which governed the sound, and
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. ' 279
received full particulars as to his life in the body. These were so
minute that I had no difficulty in verifying them from a Biographical
Dictionary. After we had become thoroughly used to the sounds and
to the alleged maker of them [Grocyn : see later] a book came out
which contained some incidental particulars of his life. It fell into
the hands of one of our circle, who read it, got up the facts, and took
opportunity of questioning about them. For a time all was right ; but
on being asked whether he remembered a certain name which was
long and difficult to pronounce, a negative was returned. ' But you
must, I think?' 'No.' 'Why, he was your tutor?' 'No.' 'You
do not remember, but he was.' A tremendous irritable negative was
given. ' The book says so.' ' No,' in violent, angry accents ; ' the
book does not say so ; and it is imperfect besides.' Other questions
were put, and answers returned in the same sharp, irritable tone,
sometimes flatly contradicting, sometimes correcting, assertions made.
At last, calling for alphabet, the correct names were—what shall I
say 1—roared out ; and on reference to the book it was found that
they were correct. The names were long, and the questioner had
forgotten and mispronounced them. No greater evidence of intelligence
could be conceived than this. The tone was just the tone of an excited
disputant, or of a man angry at having his word disputed when he
knew he was right. I had never seen the book from which the queries
were propounded. Some of the facts given were not contained in it
at all ; others which had been wrongly stated were corrected promptly
and decisively ; and in no case was a slip made. I wonder where the
Unconscious Cerebration came from then ? I do not believe any
person could have been present on that occasion, and have heard the
answers and the way in which they were given, without carrying
away the conviction that a real individuality, with real feelings,
passions, and mental attributes had been present, albeit invisible to
the eye of sense. And if he had talked with this invisible as often as
we have during more than a year past, he would have had no difficulty
in bearing testimony to the reality of disembodied existence, and of the
perpetuation of mental individuality and idiosyncrasy. I should have
no more difficulty in recognising this sound again than I should in
recalling the features and voice of any old friend from whom I might
chance to be separated. The individuality is not more real in one case
than in the other.
" But I am dealing with sounds now. Identity will come in its
turn, and I shall be able to make out a strong case, I think. For the
present I return to the immediate question.
"The sounds used always to commence near the circle, and, so to
say, radiate from it as a centre into different parts of the room. Of
late they have changed, and are usually audible to me before they
280 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
strike the ear of any other person. How far this may be attributable
to clairaudience, a faculty lately developed in me, I cannot say posi
tively. But at any rate, they seem to me to commence by a distant
rumble, not unlike the roll of a drum. This gradually draws nearer
until it is audible to all, and the old sounds are in our midst.
"Nor are they confined to the seance-room, though they never occur
anywhere else with anything like the readiness and intensity with
which they are made in that room, into which no other but our own
circle who sit regularly is ever admitted. There they are finest both
in tone and power. But they have been heard with great frequency
in other places where we have chanced to be, in strange rooms alto
gether, in different parts of the country where I may have been staying,
and even in the open air, under very curious circumstances. We were
at Southend this spring, where there is a pier more than a mile in
length. My friend [Dr. Speer] and I had taken our books and were
sitting at the extreme end, looking out to sea, when raps came very
distinctly on the rail in front of us. We ascertained that the sound
•was there without doubt, and proceeded to experiment upon the
distance at which it could be heard. I placed my hands on the topmost
rail, and my friend walked on, putting his ear to the wood from time to
time. The raps were clear and metallic, and well known to us at our
seance. They followed us all along the pier, and were audible at a
great distance, as indeed any sound is if made on a long wooden rail.
This was at 4 o'clock in the afternoon. At 8 p.m. we went on to the
pier again for the purpose of experimenting in a dim light. However,
a bright full moon shone overhead, and though it was quiet it was not
even dusk. The clear metallic rap was plainly audible at a distance of
fifty yards from me. As we were trying whether it could be heard at
a greater distance, the musical sounds rang out as clear and resonant
as in a closed room. They were distinctly audible to both of us when
we were seventy yards apart, and were apparently made in the space
between us. At any rate the sound was not near either of us, but
seemed to come from a distance. Had the night been dark I believe
the sound would have been considerably intensified. As it was it rang
out with all the characteristics which it possesses in a closed room, and
that at a distance of some 800 or 900 yards from land.
"Hitherto I have mentioned only the stringed musical sounds which
first appeared and were gradually developed : the various sounds, as it
were, of a harp, from the tiny strings down to the deepest bass notes.
But there are other sounds which professedly emanate from the same
source, and which resemble the sound of a tambourine played over our
heads, or, at times, the flapping of a pair of large wings. The tambourine
sound hovers over the circle, and sometimes gets away to a distance,
changing almost instantaneously into the twanging of a string. Of
The Experiences of W. Stai-nton Moses. 281
late, other sounds, like those made by a small zither, have presented
themselves. They are very minute, rather metallic sounds, and are
seven in number, graduated at regular intervals. I have never heard
a zither played, but I am told by those who have that these sounds
accurately imitate that instrument. They are quite distinct from the
sounds which I have described before. Unfortunately, I have no tune
in my composition ; if it were otherwise, I have no doubt that actual
melodies would be played.
"The nearest approach to a distinct melody occurred on a late
occasion. We sat on two consecutive evenings ; once alone, and once
with a friend who occasionally joins our circle. On each occasion the
sounds were very marked. When alone, we sit in a smaller room, and
there the sounds come out most distinctly ; the sound as of a very
tense string plucked by a finger nail. Three strings are distinguishable,
and very musical were the notes produced from them. On the next
evening these three strings were again presented, and in addition to
them, another set of seven, much less tensely drawn, and giving forth
a lower scale of sounds. I write without technical knowledge, and am
somewhat at a loss to convey my meaning ; but what struck me was
that these two sets of sound were graduated in pitch, and harmonised
relatively to each other. They represented two instruments, the one
of three, the other of seven strings, and they were used in playing
thus :—Certain notes were sounded upon the three strings, and these
were followed by a run made as if by running a finger-nail rapidly
over the strings of the other instrument. The result was like what
musical cognoscenti call ' a free prelude ' ; what I should describe as a
series of notes, highly pitched, clear, and liquid in their melody,
followed by a rapid run on an instrument of lower pitch. I speak of
instruments, but it is necessary to state that there was in the room—
an ordinary dining-room—no musical instrument of any kind whatever.
I am indebted to the friend who has been most interested in observing
the phenomenon from its first appearance for the subjoined account,
which supplements technical deficiencies in my own description :—
Statement by Dr. Speer.
" ' The sound which I am about to describe, which was heard in our
circle for the first time on March 23rd, 1873, has been one of the most
constant and persistent of all the manifestations with which we
have become acquainted since commencing our investigation into the
phenomena of Spiritualism, having, during the space of fifteen months,
almost invariably presented itself at each sitting. By referring to my
notes I find it described as 'a sound like that of a stringed instrument,
played, or rather plucked, in mid-air, while there was no stringed
instrument in the room.' Every attempt was subsequently made to
ascertain through what substance the sound could be evolved. Objects
282 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
of every description were struck against one another -with a view to
elicit a similar sound, but in vain ; and it at last became patent that
the sounds were formed independently of any material substance. In
process of time, the character of the sound became more and more
individualised, and its locality more diversified. It would appear at
one time as though emanating from a distant part of the room, and of
feeble intensity. At another time, the first intimation of its presence—
I speak of it, as a phenomenon, but, as was subsequently shown,
indicative of a presence—would be the striking apparently of a tense,
metallic, or catgut string, over the centre of the table, and not un-
frequently upon the table itself. In process of time, the manifestation
became most extraordinary. It was almost impossible (to an outsider
it would have been absolutely impossible) not to believe that a large
stringed instrument, e.g., a violoncello, a guitar, a double bass, or a
harp, was struck by powerful human fingers. At times the sounds
attained such a pitch of intensity as to be almost alarming ; as though,
indeed, a double bass had been placed cross-wise over the top of a large
regimental drum for a sounding-board, and then played after the
manner of a guitar—viz., pizzicato. On these occasions the sitters
could distinctly feel a strong vibration transmitted from the points of
the fingers in contact with the table up to the shoulder-joint.
" ' Before long these powerfully resonant metallic sounds were
supplemented by sounds apparently made by .plucking the shortest
strings of a harp, and the two sounds would alternate with considerable
regularity. Certain evidences of intelligence having been apparent in
the manifestations, we ascertained that the sounds were in truth
evidences of the presence of individuals purporting to have long
since departed from earth-life. The intelligence was manifested first
by answers to questions which were given in the same manner as the
raps on a table, one, two, three, five, tfec. The peculiarity of the
answers was that the tone of the sounds corresponded in a most
singular and convincing manner with the nature of the response. In
other words, the passions of individuals, as exemplified on earth by
tones of speech, were here illustrated by the peculiar type and tone of
the musical sound. A harp was said to have been a favourite com
panion of the departed when in the flesh ; and several attempts were
made to elicit actual melody at various times, but the medium not being
of a musical turn of mind, this attempt invariably failed. By request,
however, scales, octaves, and thirds have been correctly played, and on
one occasion an arpeggio was very fairly rendered, and repeated several
times. S. T. Speeb.'
" I confess myself entirely unable to give any idea of the way in
which these remarkable sounds are produced. That they are made by
no material means I am certain, for they occur in places where no such
means are available. That they are the means taken by an Invisible
Intelligence for making his presence manifest is equally certain. Just
as others take a peculiar form of rap, or a special handwriting, he
takes this musical sound as his symbol. How he makes it, I am as
ignorant as I am of the manner in which raps are produced on a table
MRS. STANHOPE SPEER.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 283
without contact. To tell me that it is done by the exercise of will
power does not help me ; and that is all the explanation I can get.
That the sound is objective is plain from the fact that all hear it
alike; and if additional proof be wanted, it is found in the fact that the
table vibrates beneath the sound. It remaius one of the inexplicable
mysteries which are none the less real objective facts because they are
mysteries ; and for the explanation of which we must be content to
bide our time. The fact is certain. Let the theory wait."
[From this summarised account of the earlier phenomena I pass
on to citations from the almost wholly unpublished notes of Mr. Moses
and of Dr. Speer, and from the published notes of Mrs. Speer (Light,
1892-3). Mr. Moses' first note-book of physical phenomena (1 B), as
already said, is missing ; his note-book 2 B begins, as it happens, at
the same date as Dr. Speer's note-book 1, viz., on November 17th, 1872,
when the little group met after an interval.
The period, April-November, 1872, covered by the missing 1 B is
covered also by Mrs. Speer's notes, and a few direct extracts from 1 B
seem to have been printed by Mr. Moses in Light. I shall quote some
of this early matter, giving throughout Mr. Moses' notes as the text,
and Mrs. Speer's (signed M.S.) and Dr. Speer's (signed S.T.S.) in
notes. I may say at once that I have found no discrepancies of any
importance between the three series of records, although each narrator
tends to dwell on a different class of phenomena. Mrs. Speer attends
most to the trance-utterances (which I do not here reproduce), and
Dr. Speer to the movements of objects without contact. Mr. Moses'
own account is generally the fullest for such part of each seance as he
was in a normal state ; and where slight slips in dates, ifec., occur, Mr.
Moses seems generally the most exact. In several cases one of the
recorders supplies some detail needed for the proper understanding of
the incidents which other recorders have given. None of the records
attain, or can even be said to aim at, scientific completeness ; but by
studying them in connection, and noting incidental phrases, one can
form, I think, a fairly accurate notion of what the recorders believe
to have occurred.
Mrs. Speer's early notes describe the gradual way in which the
phenomena began :—
March 1th, 1872.—I was taken ill, and confined to my room for three
weeks. During that time my cousin brought into my room for Dr. S. to
read (she was tired of lending me books on the subject, seeing how little I
was interested) Dale Owen's last published work, The Debatable Land.
I accidentally took it up, and began to read, and at once my indifference
vanished, and I.read and re-read till I felt my mind and curiosity so aroused
u
284 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
that I longed to get well and find out with the help of others whether the
facts contained in this, to me, wonderful book were true or false.
March 2lith. —I was able to leave my room, and on seeing our friend Mr.
Stainton Moses, I asked him to read the book and endeavour to discover
whether it was true or false. I had not been able to arouse my husband's
curiosity, as he was at that time almost a Materialist. Mr. S. M. had, up
to the present period, felt as little interest in Spiritualism as ourselves, but
impressed with my great desire for knowledge upon the subject, he read tha
book, and became as anxious for information as I was.1
On June 3rd Mr. S. M. and self sat with Mrs. C. and Miss A. C. Wo
then had raps near Mr. S. M., and a few tilts of the table ; more than we had
had before. After this we met several times, Dr. S. and Miss K. joining our
party, but nothing ever occurred except slight rapping, always near Mr. S. M.
I was getting weary of such constant failures, and my husband then proposed
having the medium, Mr. Williams, to sit with us.
After this stance we sat two or three times with Mrs. C. and her sisters,
but very little was elicited beyond numerous small raps, always in the neigh
bourhood of Mr. S. M., who was by degrees developing into a medium, and
who with Dr. S. had attended several public seances, and had been informed
at those seances that he would have great mediumistic power.
After sitting at home with various people and getting very little result,
we became tired, and proposed one evening that we would try by our
selves—Mr. S. M., Dr. S., and self. Accordingly we did so on July 30th,
1872, in the same room, and with the same table that was used when Mr.
Williams sat with us. For the first timo the raps became intelligent, and
answered a few questions. We sat again the following evening, under
the same circumstances. Raps louder and more frequent ; the table
quivered and moved several steps ; raps also answered questions. —M.S.
The phenomena improved during the summer ; and indications of
the identity of the communicating intelligences were occasionally given.
The subject of spirit identity will, however, be more conveniently dis
cussed when the whole series of proofs, partly given by physical
phenomena, and partly by automatic writing, shall be before us.
During this summer, too, " Imperator," the leading guide or director of
all Mr. Moses' phenomena, announces his advent, although not yet
giving any more personal name. I give Mr. Moses' account of the
last sitting held before the break, after which Book 2 B and Dr.
Speer's notes begin.—F.W.H.M.]
September 19th.—We darkened the seance-room, leaving the gas
burning brightly in the adjoining dining-room, Dr. and Mrs. S. and I
at the table. On the floor under the table we put a piece of ruled
paper and a pencil. A corner of the paper I tore off and handed it to
Dr. S. to identify the sheet of paper if necessary. Various raps, some
1 I had previously tried in vain to read Lord Adare's record of private seances
with D. D. Home. Though less than a month before I read The Debatable Land
I could not get through it. It had absolutely no interest for me.— S. M.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 285
objects brought in, and a noise rather like sawing wood. When light
was called for Mrs. S. stooped and picked up the paper. The upper
surface was blank. Her endorsement on the back of the paper after-
Facsimile reduced from original. The paper was blue, with faint
blue lines. The corner at the top right hand was torn off for identifica
tion of the paper.
,wards written reads: " I took the paper from under the table with the
writing downwards," i.e., on the surface touching the carpet. Dr. S.
and I wrote and signed this endorsement. " The above corner was
torn off by nie (S. M.) before the light was put out, and was given to
Dr. S. I (S. M.) afterwards put the two pieces together." They fit
exactly, and are secured by a couple of halfpenny stamps, with the
initials of Dr. S. and myself upon them.
The message follows the ruled lines exactly. A facsimile is
u 2
286 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
appended, omitting only the initials of a deceased friend. The mono
gram in the left-hand corner is that of another deceased friend of
mine. It will be noticed that the writing is clearly and laboriously
executed on the ruled lines. In no case are the lines deserted. I
fancy the message is written backwards. Imperator's signature is of
his usual decided type, very like what is automatically written by my
hand. I suspect that the message was written by two hands. Imperator
very rarely wrote before or after. The knowledge of my movements-
was exact. I left for London the next morning.
[We now come to Book 2 B, with the parallel notes of Dr. and
Mrs. Speer.]
Sunday, November \7th, 1872.—Dr. and Mrs. Speer and I resumed
our seances. The raps were extremely loud and resonant. I have never
heard them more plainly. No attempt at conversation was made except
in the way of comment. Several distinct kinds of rapping were heard,
also creaking, and a peculiar kind of wheezing scratching. 1
Monday, 18th.—Seance resumed. An attempt to sit inside the
curtains was not successful. Raps and knocks very resonant, just as
much so when none of us touched the table. Clouds of light -visible
in the room and a form near me. The wheezing noise was present
again and raps in different parts of the room. No conversation.
Barometric pressure low. I very tired and below par ; severe cold and
cough.2
Tuesday, \9lh.—Seance resumed, with similar results. In addition
the table tilted violently, and moved so as to rap on the easy chair in
which Dr. Speer was sitting. I saw a figure standing on my right
hand, which was said to be Mr. Callister. The room was filled also
with clouds of luminous vapour.3
1 November 17th.—Seances resumed after two months' interval. Mrs. S.,
Mr. M., and self.—1st seance (about one hour). Raps and knocks very soon
obtained, about Mr. M. , on his chair, on table, on cupboard of library, and in
cupboard. Knocks and taps louder than we have heard them. Table
moved half round twice. Barometer, 29J.—S.T.S.
2 November 18th.—Same circle.—Same result as to taps, some of which on
the table were, perhaps, even louder. No movement of table. Sat inside
curtain with scarcely any results. Mr. M. was tired and exhausted. Weather
wet and gloomy. Barometer, 29 2-10. -S.T.S.
a November 19th.—Same circle.--Same results at first, but not speedily
developed. Raps in cupboard. Table moved, tilted ; remained suspended
on two legs at a great angle, and rapped on my chair : " Welcome ; we
rejoice. Wm. Cr." Barometer, 29 2-10.
November 20th.—Same party.—Sat late—10.45. All tried development
by slow knocks and taps. At length table moved round, tilted, and waved
as before. No message. Barometer, 29J. Seance about 40 mins. —S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 287
Friday, 22nd.—Seance resumed as before. Knocks very resonant.
Tiltings of the table completely to the floor without contact; this
repeated three times. A paper-knife brought from the drawing-room
and thrown on to the table, striking me on the head in transit. On
going to my bedroom I found a small cross made out of some
Guimauve lozenges which I have for my cough. The remainder of
the packet which was not used was taken away, and I have been
unable to discover it anywhere."*
Wednesday, November 27th.—Seance with Mr. Williams at
Douglas House. [Mr. Williams is the well-known medium (who has
repeatedly been caught cheating). Douglas House was Dr. Speer's
house in South Hampstead, London.]
We sat (Dr. and Mrs. S. and self) for two hours absolutely without
result. We did not get even a rap. After Mr. Williams had gone I
went down to the lower room to smoke a cigar before going to bed.
As Dr. S. and I were pacing up and down the room a whole shower of
Guimauve lozenges (the remainder of the packet out of which the
cross had been made on Friday last) was violently thrown on to my
head, whence they spread over the floor round about where we were
standing. There were thirteen or fourteen of them, and that num
ber, together with the nine used in making the cross, would just about
make up the two-ounce packet which I had. I had looked in every
conceivable place for these lozenges (which were missing after the
cross was made), but could find them nowhere.
Dr. and Mrs. S. and I then sat to see if we could elicit any com
munications. They came at once—knocks, tilts, and messages. Mrs.
S. had imagined that she was touched during the seance with Williams.
I thought not as I saw nothing—no spirit in the room. We inquired
now, and were told that no touch had been given, and no spirit had
been able to manifest at all.2
1 November 22nd.—Same party.—Began at 9.15 p.m. Previous to sitting
Mr. M. and self sat on the harmonium stool in the study. Heard loud raps.
On sitting, raps almost immediately. Table moved very roughly, then tilted
at various angles, and kept suspended, no one being in contact. Table then
brought so close to floor as only to rest on my middle finger placed on floor,
and yet balanced in that position so delicately as to give but the slightest
feeling of pressure on the finger. The same thing occurred in the opposite
direction. For some minutes the table (no one touching it) oscillated under
my finger at angles which I have since tried and found it impossible to
maintain without tipping over at once. N.B.—Mr. M. and Mrs. S. were so
far removed as to be entirely out of contact with the table. Message spelt
out: " We have done all. Go ! "—S.T.S.
- November 26th [27</t].—Seance. Same as before, but with the addition of
Mr. Williams.—Room carefully prepared, cupboards all locked and pasted up.
288 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Tuesday, December 3rd.—Seance with Dr. and Mrs. S. in the lower
(breakfast) room. A bright fire burned, and partially lit up the room.
The table used was a heavy round loo table, firm, and many times
heavier than than the small table which we have been accustomed
to use in the library, where we usually sit. Manifestations com
menced almost immediately. Raps loud and clear, but not so resonant
as on the small table, creakings on my chair and on the table. Finally
the table rose, tilted violently until it rested on Dr. S.'s finger or the
floor. It followed my hands as iron follows a magnet, and was drawn
backwards on one occasion when it rested on the floor. I tried and
found that very considerable muscular effort was necessary to stir it
at all. Yet it followed the passes of my hand. I found that my chair
was many times moved, and at length it rose in the air to the height of
eighteen inches or thereabouts, as near as I could judge. It then
dropped to the floor, and I continued my upward journey until I must
very nearly have reached the ceiling. My voice was described by Dr.
and Mrs. S. as sounding from the neighbourhood of the ceiling. Pre
sently I came down, and a light was struck. My chair was found to
be some distance from the table. 'When the light was put out again
my chair was taken from under me, and placed after a time on the
table. It was a heavy chair, but was placed quite gently on the
table ; and glided towards Mrs. S. The light of the fire was enough for
us to see it dimly. I again felt that I was moving, and I walked away
to the end of the room to break the circle. Another table near me
then began to move, and I called for a light, objecting to any more
knocking about.
When we darkened the room again I called for Imperator, who had
never rapped all the evening. He came at last, but only rapped a
few times very faintly.1
Bells, rings, tubes, paper, pencil, &c., placed on table. Commenced at
8 p.m., and sat 40 minutes without any result whatever. It was suggested
that Mrs. S. should join. She did so for 20 minutes, without any result.
We then adjourned for tea, and on returning sat for another hour, but
without obtaining any results, although every change in the formation of the
circle was tried. We then broke up, and Mr. W. soon after departed. On
Mr. M. and myself going downstairs for a smoke, in about 10 minutes a
shower of guimauve lozenges came rattling down on Mr. M.'s head, and were
scattered all over the floor. They had been missing for several days past.
Mr. M. suggested a short seance without Williams. We again sat for
20 minutes, and almost at once obtained results—raps, turning of table,
tilting of table. We had no theory to offer for this singular failure.
November 28th.—Seance—same trio.—Power very soon manifest. Aclosed
box placed on table, raps on table and box and in ditto—table violently
moved several times, and struck each member in turn. Singular sounds
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 23D
Monday, December 9th. — Seance as usual, Douglas House.—
Imperator [name given by the leading control] came almost as soon as
we sat down. His knocks were, as usual, very distant at first, in
creasing in intensity until at one period of the evening the table
shook as from a blow of a powerful fist. Dicky [name given by a
frequent control] had very little to do. He tried once or twice to get in,
but was shut up at once by a thud and retired creaking in an injured
tone. Imperator professed his readiness to answer questions, and I
proceeded to question him as to the source from which these mani
festations came.
Question. Are these communications from spirits 1—Answer. Yes.
Q. Spirits of the departed 1—A. Yes.
Q. Are you a spirit once incarnated 1—A. Yes.
Q. You have been in the flesh ?—A. Yes.
Q. Is the account given of these manifestations by spirits true 1—
A. I don't know.
Q. Is what you tell us true ?—A. Yes (emphatically).
Q. Then are these manifestations from the spirits of the departed ?—
A. Yes.
Q. There is no mistake about that ?—A. No.
Q. And you yourself are a departed spirit 1—-A. Yes (three very
loud knocks, startling in their intensity).
Q. And others associated with you are spirits of the departed ?—
A. Yes.
Q. Any who are not 1—A. No.
Q. Do you know the little French child who professed to be Dr.
Speer's sister?—A. No.
Q. Were you there when she came ?—A. No.
Q. Did Miss Kirkland come ?—A. Yes.
Q. Was it Miss K. really 1—A. Yes.
emanated from box. Sawing closely imitated, ditto driving in of nails. Raps
of Imperator soon heard, and became exceedingly strong, almost alarmingly
so to a neophyte. Message : ' ' Stop." Seance then broken.
Saturday, November 30th.—Same seance. Raps, tilts as usual on table,
on a box placed on table, and on a suspended box, which box was twirled
round and round several times without contact of any kind. Imperator
manifested loudly, as usual, but suddenly departed.—S.T.S.
1 December 3rd. —Seance downstairs at large round table. Manifestations
slow, some complaining of same ; the table suddenly tilted up with consider
able force, and oscillated at a great angle. This occurred several times.
Mr. M. was moved about, and floated twice, and a large dining-room chair
was placed on the table. I, sitting in a large, heavy armchair, was for the
first time distinctly moved.—S.T.S. Sat in firelight.—M.S.
290 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Q. Are you sure?—A. Yes, yes.
Q. Did you write that message the other night ?—A. No.
Q. Were you there when it was written 1—A. No.
Q. You did not come because Dr. Speer offended you ?—A. Yes.
(Dr. S. again apologised, and the apology was received with a series
of stately raps, suggestive of bows.)
Q. Then your absence let in an evil or lying spirit ?—A. Yes.
Q. Are we liable to that ?—A. Yes.
Q. Then you do leave me ?—A. No.
Q. Not usually, you mean ?—A. Yes.
Q. Then we must be guarded and careful to sit with solemnity, and
follow guidance 1—A. Yes.
Q. You are good 1—A. Yes.
Q. I solemnly charge and adjure you in the name of God that you
tell the truth. Are you a good spirit, once incarnated in the flesh 1
—A. Yes.
(Three of the loudest knocks I ever heard. We all involuntarily
drew in our breath, and a feeling of awe stole over us.)
Q. It is true, then, that departed spirits can return. Do you know
Mr. C. ?—A. Yes.
Q. Is he here ?—A. No.
Q. Can you fetch him ?—A. Yes.—Do so.
The room, which had been filled (especially round me) with floating
clouds of light, grew suddenly dark, and absolute stillness took the
place of the previous loud knockings. It would have been a strange
scene for an ear-witness. The table, isolated, with no human hand
touching it, .giving forth a series of mysterious thuds of varying
intensity, some of which might have been made by a muffled sledge
hammer, all indicating intelligence ; an intelligence that showed itself
by deliberation, or eagerness, or stately solemnity, according to the
nature of the communication. Round the table three persons sitting
with a hush of expectation, and faces (if they could have been seen)
of awe-stricken earnestness* a question put, and a loud response,
another, and a series, as though by a counsel cross-examining a dumb
witness. The room shrouded in total darkness, except at one end,
where shifting masses of luminous vapour now and again gathered
into a pillar which dimly outlined a form, and again dispersed and
flitted round the head of one of the sitters. No scene could be
imagined more calculated to strike a novice with awe, none more
solemn and impressive for those who participated in it. The Witch
of Endor was not more surprised when her unholy incantation evoked
the shade of Samuel than I was when Imperator in answer to my
solemn adjuration professed himself to be a departed spirit. I had for
The Experiences of W. Staintan Moses. 291
some time leaned to the opinion that the spirits—if spirits they
were—were not departed ones. Dr. S. had leaned to the same notion,
so that the Unconscious Cerebration theory fails to meet this case.1 It
must be, I think, what it pretends to be—a message of truth from a
denizen of the spheres, who has passed the probation of life and has
been permitted to return to the world in which he once lived, and
whose communications, though imperfect, are sincere.
After being absent about three minutes, Imperator returned, and
his commanding thuds drew our attention. They were at once followed
by knocks of a different description to any which we had yet heard.
We inquired whether Mr. C. were present 1 Yes. Q. Are you the
spirit of my old friend ?—A. Yes.—Q. Who died so-and-so, and so-and-
so. . . 1—A. Yes. Q. Can you give me any test?—A. Yes.
The table then knocked TRINITY. It was a test to me. My
friend shortly before his death had been perplexed about theological
questions, and once had written to me to say he had been lying awake
on Trinity Sunday morning trying to realise the Trinity and had failed.
He asked me for an explanation of the doctrine, and I had written to
him on the subject.
The knocks ceased and Imperator returned. We requested that
Dicky might be allowed to tilt the table, and it was at once done ; but
Imperator soon stopped him, and bid us good-night. So closed a most
impressive seance ; in which the opinion of the intelligences themselves
declared unmistakably for the Theory of Departed Spirits. Though this
would not form any strong argument to convince one who had made up
his mind in an opposite direction, still it must be allowed to have its
weight Taken in connection with other collateral evidence such as the
materialised spirit form, the strongly marked individuality which per
vades communications from each particular spirit, the totally different
nature of the knock in each case, and the fact of certain tests being
given, the balance of evidence must be allowed to be strong.
For instance, I see a materialised form which bears resemblance to
a deceased friend (Step No. 1 ). I see that form standing by during the
progress of phenomena (Step No. 2). A knock different from any
other is given (Step No. 3). That knock gives a communication
which purports to come from the person whose form I see near me
(Step No. 4). Questioned, that communicating intelligence asserts in
the most solemn manner that it is what it pretends to be, and per
sists in that statement on being adjured (Step No. 5). On being
further pressed a test known only to myself is given to prove identity
1 Mr. Moses here fails to realise the possibility that opinions not held by our
ordinary selves may nevertheless be held and expressed by the unconscious or sub
liminal part of our being.—F.W.H.M.
292 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
(Step No. 6). That information is confirmed by other communicating
intelligences, who knock with their own special knock, and are
apparently distinct individualities (Step No. 7).
This forms a strong link of evidence in favour of the theory
advanced by the intelligences themselves. On the other side is the
manifest fact that communications purporting to come from our
deceased friends are not always trustworthy, and that they are
generally marked by evidences of intellectual weaknesses. It may be
that the falsehoods are traceable to lying spirits who personate spirits
of good, and that the low order (intellectually speaking) of the com
munications may be accounted for by the tortuous channel through
which they come and the medium through which they have been
filtered. But the explanation is not perfectly satisfactory. And
there is the additional stumbling-block that it is primafacie extremely
unlikely that the spirits of the noble, the learned, and the pure
should be concerned in the production of physical and intellectual
phenomena which, when not silly, are frequently mischievous, and
when distinctly true are not new, and being new are not true. The
argument that God permits for the establishment of a fading faith
manifestations such as these would satisfactorily dispose of all objec
tions. A similar rough and ready form of argument would explain
everything that is obscure and reduce all investigation as to the cause
of things within very narrow limits. God permits it, or it would not
exist. The fact that it exists because He permits it is no more an
explanation than would be the converse, that He permits it because it
exists. Speculations as to the motives which sway the Deity are
utterly fruitless, and presumptions as to what is or is not likely are
worse than fruitless. I have seen enough to convince me that every
thing is likely, and that nothing is likely ; and I have come to the
conclusion that one fact is worth one thousand theories. No theory
that I know of will explain everything, simply because we are ex
plaining a terra incognita and dealing with the impalpable, which we
cannot grasp, and the unknown, which we cannot in our present state
of existence expect to fathom.
The theory of the Spiritualists—the theory advanced by the
intelligences themselves—is that which seems to me the roundest
and most coherent. But " round " theories are suspicious, and the
suspicions in this case are aggravated by the manifestly untrue
character of many of the communications given by these intelligences.
The voice from beyond the grave is uncertain, and when it can be
tested frequently delusive, if not absolutely and mischievously false.
So I fancy that a wise man will still return as his verdict, " Not
Proven."
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 203
[Mr. Moses came in a few months more to believe completely in the
actual identity of the communicating intelligences. But this passage
in his diary tends to show (what on other testimony also I believe to
have been the case) that he was by no means anxious to believe in, or
to defer to, the claims of alleged '''spirit guides." His previous Anglican
convictions were very strong ; and his intellectual habit of mind in
clined rather to the side of stubbornness than of pliancy.—F.W.H.M.]
Thursday, December 12</t.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and I.—
The seance was short. I questioned Imperator as to a vision I had had on
the previous night. He said that he had appeared to me. He was some
what different in appearance to what had been described. I asked
whether I should see him again. He knocked out : " Watch." The clouds
of light, which had gathered as usual round me, lifted and went to my
right hand. They condensed gradually into a pillar, and fmally into a
form, majestic, stately and noble in mien. The body was draped as with
a toga, though that might simply have been the spirit drapery. The right
arm was extended and pointed towards me. The face was the face of my
vision, though not so distinct. I asked that I might be touched, and
the figure slowly stepped towards me, but did not touch me. Finally
it faded away very gradually until it was dissipated in luminous mist.
Dr. and Mrs. S. saw misty light, but nothing more. I asked who
it was, and " Myself " was rapped out in Imperator's knocks.
Monday, December \bth.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S., Mr.
Aug. Eves, and myself.—Imperator never appeared. Dicky brought
in two pieces of an ivory puzzle from the drawing-room, and a handful
of sugar from the dining-room. The introduction of a new member
utterly quashed all intellectual manifestations. This seems to me most
undesirable, though in this case inevitable.
December 16<A.—Dr. and Mrs. Speer and self alone, Douglas
House.—Mrs. Speer explained to Mr. Eves that he must not join the
circle, as it was objected to by the spirits. We had no sooner sat down
than distant knocks of Imperator came.1 They increased rapidly in
intensity, and the alphabet was called for at once. The knocks were
very loud, irritable and rapid. Several messages were given. " If
you alter the circle I will withdraw all manifestations." " It is
difficult enough without your making it harder." " Never again, under
any circumstances." On Mrs. Speer explaining that she did not know,
the irritable rejoinder came with knocks of vast power : " You ought
to have known." I remonstrated with Imperator on his violence, and
he knocked more quietly. Having more than once reiterated, " Never
1 Five knocks form a conventional request to have the alphabet spelt out, that a
knock may be given at each letter of the intended message.—F.W.H.M.
294 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
again," he told us to look under the table, and we found a piece of
paper which we had put there perfectly clean, now covered with the
pencil marks of which the accompanying is afacsimile :—
Ha I
The knocks were awful in their intensity, and so loud as to be
plainly heard in the breakfast-room on the floor below. The com
municating intelligence was of a most imperious description, little dis
posed to brook opposition, and showed a power which gave one an
uncomfortable notion that he was quite able to break our heads if it so
pleased him. Evidently the circle must not be added to without dis
tinct permission. And no wonder. A delicate experiment may be
vitiated by the most trifling alterations in conditions. And we know
nothing of the conditions except that they are governed by laws of
which we know little, which the spirits require before they can carry
on their higher work of intellectual manifestation. Interference with
draws the higher, and sends one back again to creaking chairs and
physical marvels. Imperator justly resents such interference.
December \9th.—In the evening Dr. and Sirs. S. and self sat in
the study. After some knocks and tiltings, Imperator entranced me
for the first time in the presence of Dr. and Mrs. Speer. Mrs. Speer
proceeded to hold a long conversation with him. She describes the
voice as quite unlike my own, very slow and measured, calm and very
dignified. He said that he had influenced Mrs. S. to inquire into
Spiritualism ; that he was here now ; that he (Imperator) had difficulty
in communicating through me on account of my ill-health and want of
perfect faith in the manifestations, or rather, in their origin. Psychic
force, he said, was true enough. He wished Dr. and Mrs. S. to sit
with me for ten minutes after he had left, so as to give me strength.
Sunday, December 22nd, 1872:—Seance at Mr. Walter Crookes's,
24, Motcombe-street, Belgrave-square. Present : Mr. D. D. Home, Mr.
and Mrs. Walter Crookes, and myself.—The only things that occurred
were owing to my mediumship and not to Mr. Home's. He was ill,
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 295
and his mediuniship is very uncertain. Raps on my chair and in the
table occurred. When Mr. Home sang and played they kept time. The
table also moved twice. This was all.
Mr. D. D. Home is a striking-looking man. His head is a good
one. He shaves his face with the exception of a moustache, and his
hair is bushy and curly. He gives me the impression of an honest,
good person, whose intellect is not of a high order. I had some talk with
him, and the impression that I have formed of his intellectual ability is
not high. He resolutely refuses to believe in anything that he has not
seen for himself. For instance, he refuses to believe in the passage of
matter through matter, and when pressed concludes the argument by
saying, " I have never seen it." He has seen the ring test, but, oddly
enough, does not see how it bears on the question. He accepts the theory
of the return in rare instances of the departed, but believes with me
that most of the manifestations proceed from a low order of spirits who
hover near the earth sphere. He does not believe in Mrs. Guppy's
passage through matter, nor in her honesty. He thinks that regular
manifestations are not possible. Consequently he disbelieves public
mediums generally. He had read with great interest the Liver
pool Mercury letters [Autumn, 1872], and welcomed mo as the
"ablest exponent of a creed which was very dear to him." He said
he was thankful to know that his mantle had fallen on me, and urged
me to prosecute the inquiry and defend the faith. Altogether he made
quite an Elijah and Elisha business of my reception. He plays and
sings very nicely, and recites well. He wore several handsome diamonds,
gifts from royal and distinguished persons. He is a thoroughly good,
honest, weak, and very vain man, with little intellect, and no ability
to argue or defend his faith.
1873.—The new year opens with a record of a very remarkable
seance held by Dr. and Mrs. Speer and myself, in the study at Douglas
House, on New Year's Eve. A number of strange spirits came, each
with its peculiar noise. We noticed the great number of strange
noises, and I knew by impression that strange spirits were present.
Dr. Speer was in the act of calling upon Dicky to bring him something,
when a pair of salad tongs came down from the ceiling and struck him
on the head. They did not appear to have been thrown with any force,
and seemed to come from a different direction to that from which articles
are usually thrown. They generally come directly over my head, the
power being concentrated there. In this case the tongs seemed to come
from the ceiling nearly above Dr. Speer's head. Amongst the strange
noises that we heard was one very peculiar wailing sound. I succeeded
in establishing communication and found that the Spirit purported to
be my old friend A. W. I begged her not to wail so. I fear she is not
happy She rapped out, " Cross for you," Mrs. S. calling the alphabet.
296 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Light was called for, and before Mrs. Speer was placed a crucifix of
blue enamel with a handsomely chased figure of the Saviour. It was
unknown to all of us, and seemed to be of foreign manufacture.
" Wear it" was spelled out. The next spirit gave the initials J. N. L. ;
she said that affinity had brought her ; we did not know her ; and she
had come to do us good. She managed to tilt the table, so as to rap
upon the woodwork of Dr. Speer's armchair. The knocks were very
clear and resonant, but gentle and firm in character.
After this I was entranced by Imperator. He said that a great
many strange spirits had been admitted that night who had been wait-
ing to get into the circle. He had difficulty in speaking, not being
used to it ; had left the earth for a very long time, and had come back
to control mc in obedience to a direct mission entrusted to him. A
question addressed to Imperator about a very remarkable spirit-light
was replied to by him to the effect that the bright halo of light
indicated great spiritual power.
The light referred to was a very remarkable one. I regret very
much that I cannot from personal observation describe the appearance.
I was partially entranced when it appeared, so far that my powers
of observation were worthless, and before it was fully developed I was
in a very deep trance, from which I did not recover until the appearance
had vanished. The description given by Dr. and Mrs. Speer is very
circumstantial. Dr. Speer was the first to observe the light, which was
directly behind me on the wall. Dr. S. faced me, and his eye was
attracted by a line of light three-quarters of an inch in width, of a bright
golden hue, which for a moment developed in a cross and then took the
form of a long line of golden light more than six feet in height. Round
my head was a halo with rays of light darting upwards, exactly as de
scribed by clairvoyants on previous occasions. On this occasion Dr. S.
said he saw light : was there any objection to his putting out his
hand to feel whether it was over my head 1 He did so, and his hand
went straight to my head at once. The nimbus of light was formed
before the concentrated pencil appeared on the wall. As I moved the
ray moved with me. Commencing near the door, between door and
fireplace, on the floor there was visible a large cluster of light about the
size of a saucer, but more oblong. It was moved in conjunction with
the other, and remained for half-an-hour or more. (The cluster of light
on the floor was always in view. The long pencil of light was at times
obscured by my body in its lower extremity.) The light on thewall moved
round from my back to the looking-glass over the fire. It was not
until Dr. S. rose from his chair to look over my head that he found that
the column of light rested on the floor. His view of it had been inter
cepted by my body. The light was visible for more than half-an-hour.
Imperator on being questioned said that the pencil of light was himself;
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 297
the bright cluster of light was his personal attendant ; and other
lights in the room were the band. Dr. Speer walked up to the light on
the wall, put his face within a few inches of it and passed his hand over
it. The cluster of light on the floor seemed to be on the pedals of the
harmonium. Both lights remained clearly in view until the gas was
lighted and the seance terminated. 1
January Mi [1873].—In the afternoon, whilst Mrs. Speer and I
were sitting in the dining-room, the gas being fully lighted, Dicky
moved the large dining-table, rocked it, and told us that he had lived
when on earth in Lincolnshire. Whilst the musical clock was playing,
a heavy tramp passed round the room in time to the music.2
January 7th.—Seance at 4, Worcester Lawn [Clifton]. Present :
Dr. Thomson and his son, Mr. Beattie, and Mr. Butland (the medium
through whom the Clifton photographs were obtained). [Mr. Beattie
and Dr. Thomson are dead ; and I have not been able to trace the
other two sitters. — E»W.H.M.] The table was very fidgety, was
moved backwards and forwards, tilted, rocked, and finally floated
to a height of about two feet from the ground. The movement
was very slow and stately, except now and again, when it was
violently shaken. The room was shaken throughout. Imperator
entranced me and spoke to Mr. Beattie at great length about the
photographs, saying that they were not photos of spirits, but of
1 December 31st, 1872.—A very successful seance. A blue enamel cross
was brought, no one knew whence, placed before my wife, who was told to
wear it. A pair of salad tongs of Sevres manufacture brought from drawing-
room through two closed doors. A column of light about seven feet high was
seen to move round the room, and about two feet to the right of the column
was a large glowing mass of light. The column of light I placed my hand
upon, as seen on the wall. High barometer, 30 ; dark. During the time
Imperator was entrancing the medium, and conversing with us through him,
we saw a large bright cross of light behind the medium's head, rays
surrounding it ; after this it culminated into a beautiful line of light of great
brilliancy, reaching several feet high and moving from side to side. Behind
this column of light on the floor was a bright cluster of lights in oblong
shape. These remained for more than half-an-hour, and upon asking Im
perator the meaning of the lights, he said the pillar of light was himself ; the
bright light behind him his attendant ; and the numerous lights seen in the
room belonged to the band. The light around the medium's head showed
his great spiritual power. He also said in time we might see him ; might
do so now were our spiritual vision clearer. Imperator then closed the seance
and the medium awoke unconscious of all that had been done.—S.T.S.]
2 January 4th.—First appearance of Rector, known by his heavy tread all
round the room, in full gas-light. Seance in light. Table danced a jig, with
our fingers nearly touching it, perpendicularly. —S.T.S. In the light we
watched the table tilt and dance up and down without contact of hands.—M.S.
298 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
pictures made by the spirits. He gave a final inspirational address
on Progress, which is described as being extremely beautiful. Mr.
Butland in trance came round to me and went through an extremely
elaborate pounding and mesmerising of my chest and throat. It was
a long process. He then (under the control of Dr. Elliotson) took my
hand and joined it to Mr. Beattie's. This was in the dark. A very loud,
gruff voice then said : " Let the instrument sit at the table in light,
and we will endeavour to entrance him again." Accordingly Mr.
Butland sat down, and we lit the gas. After a time he was again
entranced. The process of passing into the trance was very painful to
witness. "When entranced he rose and came round to me and stood
over me. The face was upturned and the lips moved in prayer :
" Bless him," " Guide him," " Lead him in the right way." The hands
were outspread as in benediction. He then knelt by my knee, burst
into tears, covering his face with his hands, and finally fell flat on the
floor, and went through a semblance of dyinj. The hands were at
length folded on the breast, and the medium rose and impersonated
another character. This is a peculiarity of his mediumship. This time
it was Mr. Beattie's mother. Then two friends of his who used to live
in Clifton. The face and voice changed in each new control. One of
the latter, an old Presbyterian minister, said it would be better if the
seance were opened with prayer. Mr. Beattie requested him to give a
form. He turned round very reverently and bowed to me, or rather to
Imperator standing behind me, and said : " The Great Spirit will give
it." After a time the control passed and I was entranced again.
During this time I spoke the following prayer :—
" Holy Father, God Most High, he present with us and hear the
earnest prayer of Thy children, crying after light. We are weak, but Thou
art Mighty ! We grope in darkness after Thee, the Infinite Light. O God,
Thou Who art the Infinite Light ! 0 God, Thou Who art all-pure, nll-holy,
guide us, Thine erring children, into purity and holiness ! Suffer us not
to be led away by that which is earthly, sensual, devilish, but in Thine
Infinite Mercy lead us onward and upward to the fountain of Eternal
Light. O Thou good God, bo with us ! We ask no more. If we have not
Thee we are indeed bereft. Amen."
The whole seance was a most striking one. I regret again that I
cannot record Imperator's trance-speakings, which Mr. Beattie savs
were most beautiful, reminding him of Home's finest trance-speakings.
He never saw such a seance, he says.
Dr. T. and I sat alone. The manifestations commenced at once.
Dicky brought a small croquet ball from the next room and a handful
of lozenges from my bedroom. Imperator entranced me, and explained
that Miss M. had been the deterrent influence, not because of her
unbelief, but from her tone of mind. My spirits could not come into
the room or breathe the atmosphere that surrounded her. He
MR. CHARLTON T. SPEER.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 299
(Imperator) had sent a manifesting spirit to fetch the articles in order
to show Dr. T. the power. He also gave information of peculiarities
of my mediumship, its sensitiveness and high-class nature ; spoke
favourably of Mr. Butland, who was, he said, a very valuable and honest
medium.
January 9th.—Dr. Thomson, Mr. Beattie, Mr. Butland and I
tried for spirit photographs in the dark without success.
January 10th.—Seance at Worcester Lawn, Clifton. Present : Dr.
Thomson, Mr. Beattie, Miss Jones, and a French artist, a friend of Mr.
Beattie and myself.—The manifestations commenced immediately. The
table was repeatedly floated in the air, two feet or more from the
ground, the raps were very loud indeed, Dr. Thomson and Miss Jones
were touched very distinctly, my chair was floated, removed from me,
and I was placed in an armchair in a corner of the room. Articles
were brought from three different rooms in the house—viz., some
Guimauve lozenges from my bedroom, four dominoes from a box in the
dining-room, and a heavy clip with receipted bills from Dr. Thomson's
room. I had never been in that room, and it is rare that articles are
brought from a room in which no psychic power has been left.
I was entranced by Imperator, and gave a long address on the
temper and mind requisite for receiving communications and on
inspiration. Lights were seen during the trance. All agreed that the
manifestations were the most powerful they had ever witnessed.
January Wth, 1873.—Seance at Worcester Lawn. Present: Dr.
Thomson, Mr. Beattie, Mr. Butland, and self.—Manifestations com
menced at once. The table was floated, loud raps came, my chair
was moved. Two things were brought out of a bag in my room, a
railway key and a foot-rule. The table was repeatedly floated, and
remained suspended and waving backwards and forwards for a con
siderable time. Imperator entranced me, and gave an address on
Investigation and Proselytising, concluding with a very beautiful
prayer.
Mr. Butland was then entranced, with less difficulty than usual, and
rose from his chair with eyes firmly closed and with a peculiar gesture
which Mr. Beattie recognised. He took paper and signed his initials,
J . E., indicating that the spirit of Dr. Elliotson was present. He is
the controlling spirit with Mr. Butland.
After walking about for some time the face and mien changed and
the medium went through a death-bed scene. The face wore an
expression of pain, and the medium gasped for breath, put his hands
over his head, writhed as though in pain, and went through a number
of gestures indicative of dying. The face cleared, the expression
became less painful, and the hands were put out as though on the
heads of children. At last the hands were folded over the chest and
x
300 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
the medium rose and came to Dr. Thomson and stood over him
with a look and attitude of great affection. He asked if it were his
wife, who died in August last, and the face brightened and smiled eager
assent. Asked if she were often with the children—four little ones—
the face assumed an expression of great maternal love and gazed
upwards as though imploring a blessing. It was a singularly beautiful
impersonation—Dr. T. told me that the death-bed was reproduced
almost exactly, and that he had no doubt that it was the spirit of his
wife who inspired the medium.
The next control was by Dr. Elliotson, who went through a very
elaborate magnetising of my throat and chest. Before doing so, how
ever, he appealed with a deep obeisance to Imperator, who was standing
behind me, and asked permission. Having received it, he explained
that I was under the control of a very high spirit without whose per
mission he dared not touch me. Having completed the operation he
turned again, bowed low, and Imperator seemed to come forward. I
felt the presence of Imperator's touch. The spirit controlling Mr.
Butland was appealed to by Mr. Beattie as to a remedy which he had
advised for me, and again some three or four spirits were "called in
consultation." Dr. E. said there were very many spirits who wished to
manifest, but he could not allow them, as it would hurt the instrument.
Mr. Beattie's father next manifested. He had been present before and
had communicated through the table, and had touched Mr. Beattie in
a way peculiar to himself. Amongst other things, he had given a
peculiar Masonic knock, which Dicky caught up and was highly
delighted with ! | | | ~- | | | may represent it. After this
control ceased the medium's face changed to an expression of great
sweetness. He came over and stood before me, and looked down on
me with a smile of great affection. He then sat down on my lap, took
my hand and clasped it in both of his, straining it to him. Finally he
put his arm round my neck and laid his head sobbing on my shoulder.
The sobs were so violent as to shake us both, and indicated delight
rather than pain. The medium then rose and gazed with a rapt ex
pression upwards. The face was extremely beautiful. The arms were
extended to heaven, and the lips moved in prayer. The arms were now
and again drawn down on my head as though calling down angel minis
ters, and I was conscious of a very pure and soothing presence and in
fluence. I have no doubt A. W. was the controlling spirit. I asked
her if she were weeping for sorrow. She signed very earnestly " No."
I asked if I caused her pain, and she eagerly embraced me afresh.
Was she near me often ? " Always " was faintly whispered. Could I
do anything for her 1 Apparently, no. Was she happy ? Yes. She
turned and gazed again at me with a face of rapt, almost agonised affec
tion, and left the medium, who was again controlled by Dr. Elliotson.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 301
I inquired about the spirit who had just been present, but could get no
answer except that she would communicate with me herself hereafter.
She expressed great delight at my having recognised her. Soon after
this the control ceased, and we closed a very remarkable seance.
Mr. Butland's mediumship is of a very remarkable type. The face
is a good one, with pleasant features, and a full black beard and mous
tache. When controlled the face is very expressive, and admits of
great change of expression. The gestures are fine and the attitudes
would be a fine study for a sculptor in some cases. Both expression
and gesture change very rapidly, and a stranger has no difficulty in
recognising the emotions intended to be conveyed. At times the
pathos is very great and most strikingly depicted. Tears flow from
the eyes, and the whole man is thrown into the character he is depict
ing, for each representation has its strongly-marked individuality, which
is maintained throughout.
Few of the spirits speak, except Dr. Elliotson, Mr. Dickie, and Mr.
Charleton.
Wednesday, January \5th, 1873.—Seance at Douglas House.—The
room was lighted with a red light sufficiently strong to enable us to see
perfectly what was going on. We could observe the lifting and
floating of the table to the height of two feet or more.1
Tuesday, January 21s<.—Seance at Douglas House.—The usual
phenomena occurred. The table was floated repeatedly, and raised
from the ground two feet without contact. . . . Dicky stated that
he was the spirit who trod so heavily in time to music, and shook the
room. He illustrated his remark by shaking the floor, and saying that
that was his peculiar sound. [It appears that this seance was held in
half-light, though Mr. Moses does not mention the fact.] 2
January 2o(h.—Seance at Douglas House.—The physical phenomena
commenced at once, and on one occasion the table was floated to the
level of our heads ; this in clear light. Dicky was requested to bring
something, and accordingly he fetched part of an ivory puzzle out of the
drawing-room, and a heavy bronze candlestick out of the dining-
room. The latter struck me heavily on the head, and hurt me con
siderably.3
1 January loth.—Seance in red light. Great movements of the table. It
was repeatedly lifted up to the level of our faces, even without touching
it. Subdued light, quite sufficient to see the table and our hands. The
table was moved and floated several times ; we could watch in light its every
movement.—S.T.S.
2 January 21s£.—Seance. Half light, enough to see our hands. The table
was lifted to a considerable height twelve times.—S.T.S. We again sat in
light.—M.S.
3January 2olh.—Seance. A candlestick brought from next room through
x 2
302 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
January 29lh.—Table tilted, moved, and floated as usual. Dicky
came and tilted the table near Dr. Speer. I lectured and forgave him,
and he danced about in great glee. [This sitting is plainly the one
referred to below by Dr. Speer, who mentions that there was some light
in the room, a fact which seems to have been only occasionally noted-]1
Sunday, February 23rd.—Seance at Douglas House. Present, the
usual circle, with Mr. Harrison, Editor of the Spiritualist.—In order
to avoid the usual seance-room [which Imperator desired to be kept
exclusively for the intimate group] we sat in the breakfast^room, the
firelight being excluded as well as possible. The usual raps and creaks,
which had been plainly audible at dinner, commenced at once, and
Dicky was particularly lively. We were then requested to darken the
room, and the light which had been round us vanished, and the
sounds ceased. Presently my chair began to move, and I saw light
coming as it were through the door. At once my chair was withdrawn
from me, and placed on the table ; from which position it toppled
over to the floor again, whilst I was shot to the end of the room under
a side table, and three articles were put upon the table, viz., a carved
ivory napkin-ring from under a glass shade in the drawing room, a
carte de visite from the same room, and a chamois horn from the
entrance hall. We all felt cold, and the influence was very strong.
We made a break now for tea, and when we returned Dicky again
fetched a compass from the drawing-room.2
Tuesday, March 4th.—Seance at Douglas House.—A very loud
knock on the table came as I was describing Mrs. Jencken's knocks.
It was a distinct imitation of hers, but not quite so loud. Dr. Speer
had got a magnet, which he put on the table, as an experiment. I do
not know how far that influenced the noise, which was very loud.
We had joined hands, contrary to our usual habit, and when a
light was struck (on the heavy blow coming) we found on the table a
little silver tray with an orange and rose upon it—the orange for me,
I was coughing, and the rose for Mrs. Speer. Knocks sounded all
over the room. [Note that Dr. Speer makes the orange a biscuit.] 3
closed doors, and was thrown at Mr. M., hurting him much. The table was
repeatedly lifted, higher than ever.—S.T.S. We saw a form surrounded
with light standing between myself and the medium.—M.S.
1 January 2&th [29th].—Seance. Still greater levitation of the table. We
had almost to stand to keep our hands on it ; one leg was placed on the arm
of my chair five times. A chamois horn was quietly brought through the
locked doors, and thrown on floor ; light partial.—S.T.S.
2 February 23rd.—Seance below with Mr. Harrison, Editor of the
Spiritualist. Several objects brought into the room from the floor above ; a
heavy chair placed on the table.—S.T.S.
3 Mardi ith.—Seance. Two violent blows of metallic sound struck on the
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 303
Monday, March lOth.—Seance at Douglas House.—Curious spirit
knock came like a sharp tap with a pebble. I had heard the same
sound before in my bedroom. It was very metallic and clear. Im-
perator spoke in answer to questions at some length. [Here the
bringing in of two objects is noted by Dr. Speer only.]1
Sunday, March 15</t.—We sat (Dr. S. and I) below stairs, and had
many knocks. The room shook, and the knocks occurred just the
same when our hands were removed and our feet placed on the table.
We had several messages, one purporting to come from Dr. Speer's
little sister, C.P.S.S. Imperator came. He spoke with difficulty, and
said that many spirits were round us. The noise on the table, chair,
bookcase, and harmonium stool was very remarkable, continuing all
the time that I was entranced. Before the trance passed, a very hard
knock was given on the table.2
March \§th, 1873.—Douglas House.—Dr. Speer and I sat alone in
the room below. The spirit above described [as making loud metallic
raps] came and knocked very violently. Dr. S. had in his hand a
small steel hammer, used in sounding the chest, and with it he struck
violent blows on the table, which were responded to by still louder
knocks from the spirit. The knocks were of the same intense and
metallic character as before. The force exercised must have been very
great.
We were finally told to go upstairs and sit in the seance-room.
Mrs. Speer joined the circle, and little Pauline came and rapped in the
cupboard of the bookcase. The raps were clear and the same as we
have heard from her before. She gave her name. Dr. S. asked for a
message. She said, " I wrote," alluding to a previous evening when
there had been a great noise in the cupboard. Dr. S. looked in the
cupboard, and found his marked piece of paper covered on one side
with " Dieu vous garde.—C. P. S. Sperr " (sic).
[This mis-spelling is noticeable in connection with the question how
far the mis-spelling of names, when given by raps or direct writing,
affects the question of identity. Here we have a control which returns
frequently, and shows knowledge of the brief earth-life, and the full
name of the little sister of Dr. Speer's, whom it claims to be. Yet the
table ; a silver salver with a flower and biscuit brought in from adjoining
room, doors being locked.
1 March 10th.—Seance on ground floor. Extraordinary metallic blows
again dealt on table, and some on the floor. Two objects brought in from
above and dropped on the floor.—S.T.S.
2 March 16th [lMi].—C. P. S. S. came, also Prudens Scientiae. Extra
ordinary and unaccountable sounds heard in a closed cupboard to my
right hand.—S.T.S.
304 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
familiar name is thus mis-spelt. On the other hand, certain names of
infant children (as will be seen later, Feb. 10th, 1874) were spelt with
great exactness. So again, of two Greek names mis-spelt in direct
writing, one was thoroughly familiar to Mr. Moses, who was much
disgusted at the blunder. The inference, as stated by the controlling
intelligences themselves, seems to be that when a name is rapped out
or given in direct writing its production is of the nature of a physical
phenomenon, which may be more or less successfully performed, and is
not necessarily performed by the spirit itself whose name is given. The
mere fact that a name is given by direct writing is thus no proof of
identity ; and neither is a blunder in spelling it any disproof.—
F.W.H.M.] 1
Sunday, March 23rd, 1873.—Dr. S. and I sat in the lower room. We
had the usual sounds, especially the metallic knock very loud. A new
spirit manifested, who gave the name of the Spirit of Art. There was
also a noise in mid-air, apparently between Dr. S. and myself, as of the
twanging of a stringed instrument. There was no such instrument in
the room, and I am at a loss how to account for it. A spirit also
imitated the drumming of a tune. The knocks were at times exceed
ingly loud.2
Monday, March 24</t, 1870.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and I sat in the
study. We had the usual knocks, and Imperator answered questions.
I had magnetised a sheet of paper, and put it under the table.
Imperator, speaking through me, told Dr. and Mrs. Speer to hold
my hands and he would give me a "pleasing test." Accordingly,
when I came out of trance I found my hands grasped. This con
tinued until a light was called for by four raps, when we found
the paper covered by minute writing. The annexed is as near a
facsimile as I can make. [A message of about ten lines of general
advice is here copied. This sitting is noticeable from an evidential
point of view, from the mutually supplementary accounts of Mr. Moses
and Dr. Speer. Dr. Speer's statement : " I myself kicked the pencil away
from the paper," apparently means " in order to make sure that, hands
being held, no writing should be done with the feet."—F.W.H.M.] 3
1 March 19th.—Seance. Tremendous raps, imitating and exceeding those
made by myself with a percussion hammer. These sounds occurred both hi
my study and breakfast-room. C.P.S.S. [the infant sister of Dr. Speer, from
whom frequent messages were alleged to come] gave a message from the
cupboard—S.T.S.
- March 23rd. —Seance on ground floor. Great blows struck on table ;
knocks and sounds of every kind. Gravel thrown through closed window ;
some stringed instrument was heard playing in mid-air. There was none in
the room.—S.T.S.
,' March 25th [24th].—Seance in study. One metallic blow struck on table,
The Experiences of W. Stainion Moses. 305
Wednesday, April 2nd, 1873.—The anniversary of my first seance.
I have now kept an accurate record of events for a year. ... A
short time after sitting, Dicky and Rector manifested loudly, and
J. N. L. came. She said [by raps] she wished to introduce her brother,
who gave the name of John Lydgate ; said he was a monk who lived
about 1420, at Bury St. Edmunds, at a Benedictine monastery ; that
he got his education at Oxford and travelled abroad ; that he kept a
school of poetry, and published the History of Thebes and the Siege of
Troy. Affinity had brought him to me.
This information has since been verified in the most remarkable
manner by Mr. Noyes, who writes me that John Lydgate was exactly
what he professes to be, and that he studied at Oxford, Paris, and
Padua. The Siege of Troy was a poetical romance of 28,000 lines.
We have not before had so circumstantial a description.1
April \§th, 1873.—Mr. Deane, organist of Trinity Church, East
bourne, joined our circle. We had several loud knocks on the table,
and creaks and taps, but no communication. At one particularly
loud crack from the metallic spirit who has given the name of John
Dee, Dr. Speer saw in the half-light a shadowy arm making impact on
the table. It appeared to come from my elbow. My arms at the
time were folded on the table. Mr. Deane confirmed by reference all
and one on the harmonium. The best and minutest spirit-writing (direct)
yet obtained, and signed by four spirits, viz. , Imperator, Rector, Doctor, and
Prudens. N.B.—The paper was carefully examined by us all immediately
before extinguishing the light, and I myself kicked the pencil away from the
paper. The writing was undermost.—S.T.S.
1 April 2nd.—Seance. Mrs. De M. , Messrs. N. and Percival joined the
circle. Janet Nares Lydgate gave her name for the first time, and brought
her brother, who died in 1490. He gave minute details of his earth-life, all
of which were found to be absolutely correct by three of the sitters during
the following days and after examination of records. Raps were heard all
over the large dining-table. A large stone was brought in (through locked
doors) from my study. Hands held the whole time.—S.T.S.
April 2nd.—This evening Mrs. De Morgan, Mr. Percival, and Mr. N.
joined our outer circle. Manifestations soon commenced. Rector shook
the room, and walked round the circle with a heavy step. Very many sounds
and raps were heard, all different. We remarked the spirits had promised
to come, and seemed very numerous. They rapped out, " We are." J.N.L.
introduced her brother to the circle ; he told us he had lived in the reign of
Henry V., had passed into spirit life in 1420, was a monk at Bury St.
Edmunds, was of the Order of the Benedictines, kept a school, and had been
attracted to the medium by affinity and love of education. He had studied
at Oxford and abroad, and had translated The Siege of Troy. J.N.L.
then informed us she was in the second sphere, had passed away young.
Imperator came with his soft thud on the table, telling us by raps to join
hands. In a few minutes, through the table, message was given, " We have
306 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
the particulars given to us by Dr. John Dee and Dr. James Nares,
who is Charley's guardian. The particulars were principally written
through my hand by Doctor. 2
April 30th, 1873.—Seance at Miss Douglas', 81, South Audley-
street. Present : Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Crookes, Serjeant Cox, Miss
Douglas, W.S.M. Mr. D. D. Home, medium.
Mr. Home.
Miss
Mr. W. Crookes.
We sat in a well-lighted room—a bright fire, a shaded reading-lamp,
and two candles, which latter were finally extinguished, the light from
other sources being ample. The table was covered with a cloth, and
the fireplace was at Mr. Crookes' back. The room was crowded
with furniture. We had not sat very long before the table became
uneasy. Small raps were heard, which gradually increased in power,
though they never reached anything like the intensity of those to
which I am accustomed. By the time that the raps had become con-
brought stone. Wait." Presently the medium was greatly convulsed, and
suddenly a large stone was rolled violently across the table and fell on
Mr. Percival's knee. The stone had been brought from the hall through a
locked door, every hand at the table being held during the process. Mr.
Percival had been anxious to have a proof of " matter passing through
matter," and this indeed was a solid one, as the stone was very large and
heavy. —M.S.
-April 19th.—Seance at Eastbourne, with Mr. Deane. Constant raps.
One great metallic blow. I saw the hand and arm.
April 26th.—Seance. Return of band. Great power exhibited. The
table thrown down, and replaced three times of its oum accord. Great raps
and metallic blows. Sounds as of a heavy tread constantly walking about the
room. Objects shaken by it. Lyre sound again heard.
April 28th.—Stiance extraordinary. I. did not come ; P. did. Great
and uncontrolled power exhibited. Table moved in all directions—raised
high up in mid-air several times. Great difficulty in controlling it. John Dec
camo with immense force—cause as yet unknown.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 307
firmed Mr. Home judged that he might experiment with the accordion.
He took it up in his right hand and held it under the table. Soon it
was played, and questions answered by notes struck upon it. Finally
it played " Home, sweet Home " very sweetly. At one time Mr.
Home's hand was withdrawn from under the table, and he allowed it
to go where it was impelled, still holding the accordion. It drew
steadily towards the reading-lamp, and in full light we saw it playing,
expanding and contracting steadily. Mr. Home held it by the
bottom, the keys being downwards. After this it was replaced under
the table, still in Mr. Home's hand, and Serjeant Cox was told to look
under the table. There he saw the hand—a full-sized man's apparently—
playing the accordion. About that he is absolutely certain. It was
light enough to be quite visible. " Ye banks and braes of Bonny
Doon " was partly played, and we were all touched by hands. One
was a little baby hand—small, delicate, and very soft. It patted my
knee very freely, and anticipated my mental questions. Miss Douglas'
bracelet was moved on her arm close to my eyes. Questions were
answered upon it, and at one time the raps upon it were loud enough
to be heard all over the room. Hands came up under the cloth and
touched us, and questions were answered on the accordion both by
raps and by the notes.
The lyre sound, which is familiar to us, was heard very distinctly,
even when the accordion was away from the table.
By degrees Mr. Home's hands and arms began to twitch and move
involuntarily. I should say that he has been partly paralysed, drags
one of his legs, moves with difficulty, stoops, and can endure very little
physical exertion. As he passed into the trance state he drew power
from the circle by extending his arms to them and mesmerising himself.
All these acts were involuntary. He gradually passed into the trance
state, and rose from the table, erect, and a different man from what he
was. He walked firmly, dashed out his arms and legs with great
power, and passed round to Mr. Crookes. He mesmerised him, and
appeared to draw power from him. He then went to the fireplace,
removed the guard, and sat down on the hearthrug. There he seemed
to hold a conversation by signs with a spirit. He repeatedly bowed,
and finally set to work to mesmerise his head again. He ruffled his
bushy hair until it stood out like a mop, and then deliberately lay down
and put his head in the bright wood fire. The hair was in the blaze,
and must, under ordinary circumstances, have been singed off. His
head was in the grate, and his neck on a level with the top bar. This
was repeated several times. He also put his hand into the fire,
smoothed away the wood and coal, and picked out a live coal, which he
held in his hand for a few seconds, but replaced soon, saying the power
was not sufficient. He tried to give a hot coal to Mr. Crookes, but
308 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
was unable to do it. He then came to all of us to satisfy us that there
was no smell of fire on his hair. There was absolutely none. " The
smell of fire had not passed on him." In the trance state he passed
about the room amongst the furniture without touching any. He
moved the lamp to the mantelpiece. He spoke in a soft, subdued voice,
called himself " Dan," and said he had a work to do in London.
During the evening we never heard who the spirits were, but I was told
that friends of mine were present.
[Mr. Crookes, to whom I (F.W.H.M.) have shown this account,
comments as follows :—,
March 9th, 1893.
I have a distinct recollection of the seance here described, and can corro
borate Mr. Stainton Moses' account. I was not well placed for seeing the
first part of the " fire test " here recorded. I knew, from experience, that
when Home was in a trance much movement or conversation on the part of
the others present was likely to interfere with the progress of phenomena.
My back was to the fire, and I did not at first turn round to see what he
was doing. Being told what was taking place, I looked and saw Home in
the act of raising his head from the fire. Probably this was the last occasion
of the " several times " it was repeated, as I have no recollection of seeing
it more than once. On my expressing great disappointment at having missed
this test, Mr. Home told me to leave my scat and come with him to the tire.
He asked me if I should be afraid to take a live coal [ember] from his hand.
I said, No, I would take it if he would give it to me. He then put his hand
among the hot coals [embers], and deliberately picked out the brightest bit
and held it in his hand for a few seconds. He appeared to deliberate for
a time, and then returned it to the grate, saying the power was too weak,
and he was afraid I might be hurt. During this time I was kneeling on the
hearthrug, and am unable to explain how it was he was not severely burnt.
The fire was of wood, Miss Douglas never burning coal in her reception-
rooms. At the commencement of the evening a log of wood had been put
on, and this had been smouldering throughout the evening. My recollection
of the fire is that it was not a particularly bright one.
I do not believe in the possibility of the ordinary skin of the hand being
so prepared as to enable hot coals to be handled with impunity. Schoolboys'
books and mediaeval tales describe how this can be done with alum or certain
other ingredients. It is possible that the skin may be so hardened and
thickened by such preparations that superficial charring might take place
without the pain becoming great, but the surface of the skin would certainly
suffer severely. After Homo had recovered from the trance I examined his
hand with care to see if there were any signs of burning or of previous pre
paration. I could detect no trace of injury to the skin, which was soft and
delicate like a woman's. Neither were there signs of any preparation having
been previously applied.
I have often seen conjurers and others handle red-hot coals and iron, but
there were always palpable signs of burning. A negro was once brought to
my lalwratory, who professed to be able to handle red-hot iron with impunity.
I was asked to test his pretensions, and I did so carefully. There was no
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 309
doubt he could touch and hold for a brief time red-hot iron without feeling:
much pain, and supposing his feet were as resisting as his hands, he could
have triumphantly passed tho " red-hot ploughshare " ordeal. But the
house was pervaded for hours after with the odour of roast negro.
William Crookes.]
Wednesday, May 7th, 1873.—Seance with Mr. D. D. Home, at
Miss Douglas', 81, South Audley-street. Present : Mrs. Home, Ser
jeant Cox, Mr. and Mrs. W. Crookes, Miss Douglas, and myself.—
We had been told at the last seance to sit in the dining-room. Miss
Douglas had forgotten, and the fire was newly lit and the room
unprepared. We sat round the table for fifty minutes with no result.
During all that time I felt power drawn from me, and was partially
entranced. The phenomena commenced with faint raps on the table.
Window with light behind it.
Chair on which
Mrs. C. sat.
Mrs. C. X I
X Dinner-waggon.
Fireplace,
without fire.
\ D.H.
Figure X X—
Mr. C.
Mrs. C. f \^ Serjt. Cox.
Mr. H. I J Mrs. H.
Miss D W. S. M.
I I I I
Window.
Mr. Home took the accordion in his hand, and held it under the table.
During this time raps occurred near me and on my chair. The
accordion played a strange, weird melody, unlike anything earthly I
ever heard. The table rocked about like a ship at sea—rocked,
groaned, and finally separated at the joint. Nothing, however, was
310 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
made of this, and the table was joined again. A chair just behind Mr.
Home began to move, and was considerably moved round. We could
all see it move, but stealthily, and when the intent gaze was not fixed
on it. We found invariably that direct gaze would paralyse the move
ment at once. . . . Suddenly Mr. Home passed into trance, and
spoke in his natural voice, but of himself in the third person. He
spoke of a spirit near (Hamilton Dundas), who had been lost in the
President. Miss Douglas knew him.
Mr. Home now rose from his chair, and . . . went into the
inner dining-room, taking the accordion with him, and placing it on
the dinner-waggon. [Carving-table.—E. Crookes.] The firelight was
lowered ; the reading-lamp was put out of the room ; the gas behind
the window at the end of the room was lowered, and we sat in gloom ;
the window at the end showing out in bold relief. During the evening
Mr. Home stood near the fireplace, and kept us informed of his
position. " Now Dan is here ; now Dan is touching the, ifec., tfcc." We
all saw a hand descend from the top of the curtain and play the
accordion. It was a large hand, and its reflection on the window
blind was strong. After this a head showed in similar way. When
Mrs. Crookes was told to go into the room and occupy the chair
marked in the plan, a form was materialised as far as the middle. It
floated near the folding doors, and advanced towards Mrs. Crookes, who
screamed, and it vanished.
[Mrs. Crookes, to whom I (F.W.H.M.) have shown this account,
makes the following comments :—
March 9th, 1893.
This is an accurate account as far as it goes of one of the most interest
ing seances I ever had with Mr. Home, and I have on several occasions
recounted the incidents to my friends. When Mr. Home took me by the
hand and led me into the back dining-room he placed me in a chair at the side
of the window and carving-table (not dinner-waggon), and facing the party
in the other room. The window had ground glass in it, no blind, and the
gas behind was bright enough to show everything in the room distinctly.
Mr. Home then left me and stood between the two rooms. The accordion
was immediately taken from his hand by a cloudy appearance, which soon
seemed to condense into a distinct human form, clothed in a filmy drapery,
standing near Mr. Home between the two rooms. The accordion began to
play (I do not remember whether on this occasion there was any recognised
melody), and the figure gradually advanced towards me till it almost touched
me, playing continuously. It was semi-transparent, and I could see the
sitters through it all the time. Mr. Home remained near the sliding doors.
As the figure approached I felt an intense cold, getting stronger as it got
nearer, and as it was giving me the accordion I could not help screaming.
The figure immediately seemed to sink into the floor to the waist, leaving
only the head and shoulders visible, still playing the accordion, which
was then about a foot off the floor. Mr. Home and my husband came to me
The Experiences of TP. Stainton Moses. 311
at once, and I have no clear recollection of what then occurred, except that
the accordion did not cease playing immediately.
Mr. Serjeant Cox was rather angry at my want of nerve, and exclaimed :
" Mrs. Crookes, you have spoilt the finest manifestation we have ever had.'^
I have always regretted that my want of presence of mind brought the-
phenomena to so abrupt a termination. Ellen Crookes.]
May 9th.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. in study.—A very-
interesting seance. We joined hands, and in that position had loud
knocks from Philosophus, but no movement of table. Dicky came and
brought very gently an ivory piece of puzzle from the drawing-room.
At my request he fetched another. After this I felt something-
crawling over my right hand (which Mrs. S. held) and could not make
out what it was. When a light was struck we found it to be a marker
from Mrs. Speer's bedroom. It had crawled over my hand, and was
placed directly in front of her, with the legend, " God is our refuge and
strength," right before her eyes. It was folded and arranged very
neatly. During the whole time we grasped hands. A piece of'
mignonette in my button-hole was taken out a^id passed over my face
and hair, and over Mrs. Speer's face. As we concluded the seance a
pillar of light, very bright and diffused, descended on the centre of the
table and passed round the circle, vanishing near the ceiling. It was
like a flash of light at first.1
Wednesday, May 14th.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—
The usual manifestations, rapping, tipping, and floating of table. No
spirit lights, but the lyre sound, as we have named it. The sound had
never occurred except in the lower room and in the dining-room, where
there were musical instruments—a piano and a musical clock—on
which it could be imitated, and I had formed the idea that it was
necessary to have such means of forming the sound. Here, however,
it came very much more distinctly than I had ever heard it before,
close to our ears, and moving about apparently in mid-air. It seemed
like the plucking of a string or strings. There was no attempt at a
tune, but the sound was clear, and varied in tone and pitch. It was
repeated several times over, and continued more or less for 20 minutes
or more. Two articles were brought from Mrs. Speer's bedroom. The
seance did not last more than three-quarters of an hour.2
Sunday Evening, May 18th, 1873.—Douglas House. Our circle and
Mr. Harrison. . . .—Scent was brought, not as before, but by a
lMay 9th.—Seance. Hands all held. Two ivory puzzle pieces brought from
drawing-room, and a bookmarker from our bedroom. Flowers taken out of
Mr. M.'s coat and brushed over my wife's face. Philosophus came.—S.T.S.
s May 14th.—Stance. Lyre spirit (Grocyn) manifested well, and close to
us. Two objects were brought dotmistairs from a box in our bedroom ; doors-
as usual locked.
312 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
cool wind laden with the odour. It was like otto of roses, very
powerful. As it passed round the circle Dr. and Mrs. Speer and I
saw a figure carrying it apparently. I also saw a figure in the middle
of the table when the lyre sound was heard there. Rector manifested
very forcibly.1
1 May 18th.—Seance with Mr. W. Harrison in our dining-room. Rector
with us the whole evening, displaying great power and shaking the
whole room. Grocyn came again. Cards were brought into the room from
the drawing-room. Cold columns of air laden with rose scent circulated
around us. At 3.30 in the morning the handles of our bedroom were
violently shaken.—S.T.S.
[Mrs. Speer has incidentally given me a curious description of this
nocturnal sound. I had asked her whether the servants at Douglas House or
elsewhere had ever commented on the musical and other noises. Mrs. Speer
replies (October 26th, 1893):—"In the Isle of Man we had a furnished
house, and took our own servants. At Ventnor we had a flat to ourselves
and sat very little there. At Shanklin we had, for three years, a house of
our own, where the most remarkable stances occurred. It was here
that Mentor used to make such beautiful scent from the flowers, scenting the
house and perfuming flowers that we were wearing. While speaking of
scent, I may tell you that one summer we shut up our London house and took
all the servants to Shanklin. We had occasion to ask someone to enter the
house. The lady wrote saying the spirits were evidently taking care of it,
as it was filled with beautiful scent—no one in it. As a rule our servants
slept at the top of our house, and they made no remarks concerning noises,
except on one occasion, when Dr. S. and Mr. S. M. had been sitting in a
lower room, opening into the garden, and near the servants' apartments.
The manifestations had been very strong, and after the gentlemen left the
room the servants said they heard so much pounding in the room that
they felt frightened and went to bed as quickly as possible. We were told
afterwards that so much power had been generated that the spirits had to
make the noise to get rid of it. A similar circumstance occurred to me
and Dr. S. one night. Soon after we had retired to bed the handle of
our door was violently shaken. I thought a burglar had arrived ; he, who
did not hear well, said, 'Perhaps it was nothing.' A moment afterwards
the door leading into the dressing-room was also shaken loudly. On looking
outside there was no one to be seen. We were afterwards told that a spirit
had bean attracted by the spiritual light over the house, and had used up
power that had been left by shaking the doors. The spirits did once give
three loud raps at my bedroom door to call me down to a seance, Mr. S. M.
being downstairs. And mental questions have been answered by raps on the
wall, while I was in one room and Mr. Moses in another." This last remark
relates to another question ; as to phenomena occurring to Mrs. Speer in a
room apart from Mr. Moses.—F.W.H.M.]
May 27th.—Seance at Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and L—
Lyre sound, scent while hands were held. A large materialised hand
was passed over Mrs. Speer's up-turned face, as she was waiting for the
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 313
sprinkling of the scent, which seemed to come down from the ceiling.
It was a large hand, and startled her so much that we closed the seance.
I afterwards ascertained that the hand was Mr. C—r's. He had come
to say farewell, being called to other work, and had touched Mrs. S. ia
mistake.
1 May 26th [27th].—Seance very good. Grocyn still developing ; scent
(liquid) thrown over us all from above ; a hand touched Maria. The table
lifted its leg.
June 7th.—Seance. Grocyn again constantly with us, playing in all
directions, sometimes close to us, at other times distant. A brass butterfly
was brought in from drawing-room, all hands being held. Frequent
appearance of spirit lights. Rector came.
June 9th.—Seance. Grocyn came again as usual. Verbena scent appeared,
first in aerial form, and then in repeated showers.
June 16th.—Seance. Miss Burkett, Miss and Mr. PercivaL—Grocyn, as
usual. Two scents. Long address from Imperator ; during which table lifted.
June 20th.—Seance very good. Grocyn's manifestations were most
extraordinary. A candlestick was brought from the dining-room, and shell
fell straight down from the ceiling behind me on the back of my arm
chair. The table rolled about in every direction. Showers of liquid
verbena scent, and another nameless scent, fell down upon us. Sometimes
it was poured on one of my hands alone. Columns of very cold scented air
passed round the room. A cross was brought to me of silver enamel.
Direct writing under table. At the close of seance John Deo gave two
tremendous blows on fhe table.
June 21st.—Seance very satisfactory. Grocyn and his friend the Welsh
Harper again manifested in a most extraordinary manner, taking in the whole
range of the gamut upon their invisible instruments. Three crosses were
brought with the message (by raps): "One for each." Scent was again
repeatedly showered down. Between thirty and forty spirit lights appeared,
many of them as large as large oranges. They began near the floor, then
ascended, and at last by request came within our circle, so that we might have
touched them. One came down (by request) on the table, and gave
9 three loud raps, as though it had been done with the bottom
of a lamp. The appearance of several of them may be thus
represented. The band which I saw is stated by the others to have
been in reality the finger of a hand crossing the lamp, which was like
bright moonlight. Many of the lights were amorphous, or rather
formless. They succeeded each other with great rapidity.
June 23rd.—Seance. We had this day fitted up a cabinet by opening the
door of the bath-room, and hanging in front of it a heavy curtain with
a square aperture. Mr. M. sat in this cabinet upon a reclining chair. Large
lights soon appeared, and did so about fifty times. They emerged from the
aperture, and came into the room, casting reflections upon objects. Some
were so large and bright as to show the whole of the lintels and doorposts.
They came very close to the table upon which our hands were placed, and
on which table there came most unexpectedly the little raps of C.P.S.S.,
with her French message : " Dieu vous garde."—S.T.S.
314 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Friday, June 27th. — Dr. and Mrs. S., Mr. H., and self. — We
sat first in the dining-room. The knocks began, almost directly.
The musical sound of Grocyn and the scent came, and a stone
was brought from my house in Clifton-road, a distance of half-a-
mile. Imperator spoke very briefly, and told us to go upstairs. I had
a very distressing headache, and the atmospheric conditions were not
good. I sat in the cabinet, and the other three on the sofa outside.
Lights soon came, whilst I was in deep trance. They are described
to me as of pale, soft light, which was surrounded apparently with
drapery. Mr. H. described it to me as a luminous crystal with
a hand holding it. Mentor, on being asked whether it were
his hand, assented, and showed a gigantic finger before the light.
There were about thirty lights, and some of them were very large
They flashed by with a comet-like motion at times, and then again
stood at the opening, gradually fading away.
They generally seemed to radiate from a solid centre of luminosity
and to be shrouded in some soft drapery. Others were apparently
solid, like luminous ice. After the lights had been shown Mentor con
trolled me (first time), and I walked out through the opening and sat
down at the table, talking in a brisk, cheery voice, quite unlike
Imperator's. The control did not last long, and I woke refreshed and
with my headache gone.1
Saturday, June 28th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—Musical sounds,
scent, knocks and tilts. Mentor controlled, and showed his light, flashing
1 June 27M.—Seance. Mr. W. Harrison, Editor of the Spiritualist, joined
our circle in the dining-room. Grocyn again manifested well. Scent thrown
over everyone, loud knocks, stone brought into the room. I happened to
put my hand out into the middle of the table, and felt another hand.
N.B.—The medium and his chair had been removed from the table.
Imperator came and requested us to go upstairs and try for lights as before,
Mr. M. sitting in the cabinet. They came almost immediately, of various
shapes and sizes, some very large. They came into the room and illumined
the doorposts distinctly ; on one something like a large finger seemed to rest.
Qo=o6 0 M®
The above represent the outlines of these lights. They were all of a pale
bluish-green, or rather greenish-blue, tint. Many of them had a perfectly
distinct hard outline and a bright nucleus. Mr. Harrison says that such
lights could by no possibility be imitated [Mr. Harrison was an electrician],
and imagines that they were produced by hands holding crystals with
drapery falling on them. At the close Mentor brought the medium out of
the cabinet and gave us a short address.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 315
it close to Dr. and Mrs. Speer as they sat at the table. It was bright
and of large size. Rector also manifested.1
Sunday, June 29lh.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—The lyre-sound of
Grocyn was the most pronounced I have yet heard. He answered
questions freely with it and played a duet, varying it to represent
the sound made by bells. He told me that there were seven
musical spirits concerned in manifesting, but we could only dis
tinguish three distinct sounds. One was like the very small string
of the harp, the other was like the very deepest bass of the
violoncello, rich, full, and very powerful. It sounded freely in
our midst. Scent was showered on us, and three books were brought
from one of the cupboards of the book-case and laid on the table, my
chair having been previously withdrawn to the end of the room. They
were all books belonging to Dr. Speer which had been lately in use.
The table was a good deal tilted. Many raps and sounds were made,
and especially Mentor knocked, first on the table, which was quite out
of my reach ; and then immediately on the harmonium. I could see
him passing backwards and forwards. Indeed, the room was full of
diffused light—I never saw more—in the form of foggy luminous mist.
Little points of light flashed out now and again, but no distinct spirit-
lights were made. 2
Monday, July 1st, 1873.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—The day was so
oppressive and hot that we had not thought of sitting, but I suggested
trying what could be done under very unfavourable circumstances.
Grocyn soon manifested, with very loud thrumming, of deeper tone
than we ever had before. It was as if some power were thrumming
the deep string of the double-bass. With this were intermingled other
sounds shading to the high note which we associate with the Welsh
harper. The sounds were persistent and very loud. The deep bass thrilled
the air and imparted a tremulous motion to the table. Scent came,
and I was controlled both by Mentor and Imperator, who said that
they had wished to try what could be done under such bad conditions.
Se'ance at 20, Mornington-road. Tuesday, July 2nd.—Mr. and Mrs.
William and Mr. and Mrs. Walter Crookes, Miss Douglas, Serjeant
Cox, and myself. Mr. D. D. Home, medium.—Home had received a
1 June 28th.— Seance good. Grocyn came repeatedly in a most singular
manner. The sounds were as if a violoncello had been played on the top of
a big drum, and the strings plucked. Three other musical sounds were
heard. Loud knocks on the table and harmonium alternately. Scent as
usual.—S.T.S.
s June 30th.—Short seance by impression (weather very bad). Grocyn's
sound as extraordinary as ever. Scent showered down several times. John
Dee delivered some great blows on the table. M.S.I, came.—S.T.S.
T
316 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
bothering letter just before the seance, and "we had very scant results.
We were touched under the table, and roses in the middle of the table
were thrown to us. I was touched on face, and knees, and hand. Raps
in the neighbourhood of my chair and on the table near me.
Saturday, July f>th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—Grocyn very loud.
The sounds produced are indescribable. If a powerful double-bass were
thrummed on a big drum, I doubt whether it could make such a sound.
They were almost continuous. The Welsh harper came, and we had a
new sound, which was vastly like a squeaking whistle. This may have
been attributable to the fact that the power was ill-regulated and
erratic. Scent. Imperator controlled very briefly. He spoke of some
very interesting discussions which I am holding with him [by auto
matic writing].1
Sunday Evening, July Gth.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—Grocyn's
sounds were clear, bell-like, and refined. Occasionally he made a sound
as of a loose or broken string, very curious and loud. The whistle
developed, and was less harsh and unpleasant. No scent, but Mentor
made a few small lights whilst I was awake. Knocks in cupboard.2
Wednesday Evening, July 9th.—Dr. S. and self, in study.—We sat
alone, Mrs. Speer being out. The seance was very remarkable. Grocyn
commenced as soon as we sat down. His sounds were portentously
loud, at times causing the table to vibrate throughout. In the
air was the sound as of a tambourine and a harsh shrill whistle
almost like a bird's note. Knocks on the table like small objects falling
and rolling about. Knocks on harmonium, cupboard, and table
simultaneously. Table lifted, harmonium stool moved and brought out,
my chair rapidly pulled away from the table. Books brought from the
harmonium, one pulled out from the book-case, a small picture brought
to the table. All placed on Dr. Speer's left hand. Scent unlike any
thing we had before. Message : " We show our power. Good-night,"
given in Mentor's knocks.
After the seance Dr. S. and I walked up and down in the dining-
room, I smoking a cigar. The smell of scent became palpable through the
odour of the tobacco. I casually said : " Now, if they would put it on
1Jtdy 5th.-—Seance. M.A. unwell. Power erratic. Grocyn came as
usual. J. Dec delivered some alarming blows—really fearful. Table moved
about. A sound like a penny whistle heard several times.—S.T.S.
2 July 6th.—Seance. Conditions good. Grocyn and his harper friend
manifested in a most remarkable manner. A tambourine was heard in mid
air. The whistle, now more like a bird, was repeatedly heard all around.
C.P.S.S. came, giving her peculiar knock, like the dropping of shot on
the table. She gave (through the table), when inquired of: "I knock by
my will." Lights seen around the medium, who himself saw them, not
being entranced. They were not so distinct as when he is entranced.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 317
the blotting pad we could see it." (A pad lay on the table.) Immediately-
wet scent fell on the pad, and this phenomenon was repeated a dozen
times, I should think. The little bird-whistle also followed us and
sounded repeatedly, near the ceiling, apparently. The sound was much
less than it had been in the dark room. The dining-room was well
lighted, and lowering the gas did not seem to make any difference.1
Saturday, July 12th.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. Speer, Dr.
Thomson, of Clifton, and myself.—We sat in the dining-room, and
obtained the usual phenomena—scent, the musical sounds, raps, tilts, <fec.
We tried bringing the small table out from the study, but the raps
came on the large dining-table at once ; and we were told to move to
it. We sat for the lights in the cabinet upstairs, and some large ones
appeared, of a similar nature to those which I have described before.
Mentor and Imperator both controlled, and spoke to Dr. Thomson. The
control was short. Mentor [i.e., Mr. Moses controlled by Mentor] came
out from the cabinet and walked into the circle upstairs. Scent came
upstairs for the first time.2
Sunday, July 13</t.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self, in study.-—Grocyn's
sounds very loud. Scent. Lights formed behind me, and Imperator
entranced me. Dr. Speer describes the lights as being very diffused,
and similar to those shown from the cabinet, but not so brilliant.
Imperator spoke sadly of the difficulty of controlling me, and of the
discussion which I have had with him now for a long time. I have
argued out with him the question of his identity, and of the pretensions
he makes, as well as of the general outcome of Spiritualism. The tone
1 July 9th.—Seance. Mr. M. and self sat alone in my study. All the
usual phenomena. Grocyn, the bird, scent, &c. , presented themselves in a
very short time, and with greater intensity than ever, the violoncello or
harp sounds actually sending powerful thrills up our hands to the shoulder,
and even through the body. The bird-whistle came with great power, and
very close. The scent fell like rain. The harmonium bend was moved out
and a number of books were brought from it one after another and placed on
my left hand. A frame, containing one of C.'s certificates, was also placed
across my hand, and a large book—Vol. 2 of Count Bcaulus—was finally
placed on the pile already formed on the table. Great thumps were heard
almost simultaneously on the cupboard door and at the farthest end of the
harmonium. On returning to the lighted dining-room, scent (verbena) was
several times, and by desire, thrown on a blotting pad ! \ !—S.T.S.
2 July 12th.—Dr. Thomson, of Bristol, joined our seance. The study
table was placed in the dining-room, but the phenomena were very slight.
We left it and sat round the large dining-table. Grocyn came as usual.
Heliotrope scent was thrown over each in turn ; and a large number of splendid
lights, apparently held by hands, were seen in the cabinet. I myself saw
an arm apparently holding one of these lights.—S.T.S.
y 2
318 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
was—as described to me—slow, solemn, and very impressive. A few
lights were made by Mentor for me to see, but I was half-entranced.
Monday, July 14f/t.—Dr. and Mrs. S., Mr. Percival, and self.—We
sat first in the dining-room. The seance throughout was good. There
was a deal of light in the room, diffused ; C.P.S.S. was plain to me,
and rapped on the table with the peculiar dropping rap. Raps
commenced almost as soon as we sat down, and the scent came. (We
had three kinds during the evening.) Grocyn's sounds were louder
than I ever heard them in the dining-room, though still not so loud as
they are in the study. They varied from the deepest bass to the
highest treble. The whistle came again, apparently up in the air near
the ceiling. Imperator came, and spoke at length in answer to
Percival's questions. He promised to endeavour to put himself in
communication with another medium, so as to give me corroborative
evidence as far as possible: He replied also to questions about the
spheres and other points. We then sat for lights upstairs, and had a.
number. I was in the deepest trance. Dr. S. describes them as not
so brilliant as usual, but clear, and with a bright nucleus. Some were
shown with a hand holding them, the hand large, and the fingers
pointing upwards. Mentor controlled afterwards, and walked out as
usual, talking easily, but in a totally different way to Imperator. He
said the conditions of atmosphere and medium had been unfavourable.
Scent was again showered through the aperture of the cabinet.1
July 15th.—Seance in the study at Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs.
Speer and myself.—Imperator, in consequence of my persistent dis
belief in his pretensions, had retired, and had threatened to withdraw
the power. Scent came in showers ; but no other manifestation was
given except a few knocks. The scent was literally rained down on
us. Tt was a very beautiful scent, like sandal-wood, at first. After
wards there came a scent of a totally different kind. The room was
so permeated with the odour that it remained till the next day. Scent
fell before we began to sit, and at intervals during the day we had
perceived it about my head.2
1 July lUh.—Seance. Mr. Percival joined us. Grocyn as usual, with
violoncello, harp, and tambourine ; sounds of a most distinctive and unmis
takable character. Mr. P. greatly astonished. The whistle heard. C.P.S.S.
came. Jasmine scent abundantly showered down both in the dining-room
and bedroom. Large lights (held by large hands) seen emerging from the
cabinet. Medium in deep trance as usual during lights. Flowers, from
centrepiece thrown about freely.—S.T.S.
2 Sunday, Jidy 20th.— Seanco with Mr. M., Mr. Harrison, and self. Mrs. S.
in bed. Grocyn most distinct and clear ; the whistle also heard several times.
Mr. H. said he thought it would develop into a voice. Paps heard all over
the table, especially in front of Mrs. S.'s vacant chair. At last some extra-
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 319
August 9th.—We resumed our sitting, and Grocyn again mani
fested very beautifully. Mentor showered scent, and I witnessed the
formation of some eight or nine very beautiful spirit-lights. They
formed quite close to me and near my left hand, about a foot from the
floor, floating upwards till they reached the level of the table and
became visible to Dr. Speer. They were expressly made at my side,
instead of, as usual, at my back, so that I might see them. They
seemed to develop from a very bright speck, about the size of a pea,
until they attained the size of a soda water tumbler, and showed a soft
luminosity like pale moonlight. They seemed to be covered with
drapery and to be held by a hand. They faded slowly out, remaining
visible about thirty or forty seconds, or perhaps a minute. The largest
would be about eight inches long.
Imperator came for a short control, and said that Mentor had made
the lights for me to see. They dared not do so in town when I was at
work, and it was not safe to make them except when I was without
other demands on me. They were typical of the light the spirits shed,
and had a spiritual meaning, as all spiritual phenomena had. Ho
(irdinary knocks were heard (as I believe) on another small table and on a chair
near it. When asked to knock on the table, knocks of the sharpest kind
came on the table and then on the H6or. It was as if large glass marbles
had been thrown on the table, had bounded off on the floor, and then rolled
away. Till a light was struck it was almost impossible not to believe that
such had been the case. Two scents came ; one (by request) saturated a
pocket-handkerchief belonging to Mrs. S. Adieux. No lights.—S.T.S.
320 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
spoke very gravely and mournfully of the state of Mrs. Colt, who
lies in London seriously ill with typhoid fever. Several com
munications have been made to me on that subject. One night
at Enniskillen I was kept awake all night by loud raps. " 111 "
was all the communication I could get. Afterwards, at dinner
on the next day, when Dr. S. was present, raps came again. " HI "
was spelled, and when I asked who, " B. C. " was given, the initials of
Mrs. Colt's name. (On many occasions I have felt sympathetically ill,
and have been told that the cause was the same.) Iniperator spoke
very mournfully and said that she was grievously ill. They did all
they could, but could not get near her. He said that seven spirits
were watching Mrs. Speer at Shanklin.
August 10th.—Dr. S. and self at Garrison [Ireland].—The manifes
tations commenced with Grocyn's lyre-sound, which was very clear and
melodious. Scent came, and then the lights—some sixteen of them,
one after another, on both sides of me. They were large and clear and
formed near the level of my knee, rising gradually above the table.
Afterwards Mentor entranced me and spoke for more than half-an-
hour to Dr. Speer. He describes his mode of speech as abrupt and
the tone as a hoarse whisper ; all unnecessary words left out. He
explained that he would bring a light on the table and knock with it.
This he did several times in succession, finally showing his hand in
front of the last. Dr. S. describes it as a well-formed hand. One of
the attendant spirits being noisy, Dr. S. said he feared the noise would
awaken the inmates of the inn. Mentor said he would send him away.
He knocked three times and said, " He is gone." He did not appear
again. This spirit resembles Rector very much, and is the personal
attendant of Mentor, as Rector is of Imperator. He shakes the floor
very much like Rector. During this and the previous night loud
knockings were heard in my room, and Dr. Speer was kept awake a
long time, three or four hours, by them. Mentor wished to put the
light in my hand, but failed in the attempt. On one occasion the
advent of scent was preluded by a prolonged whistle.1
1 Detailed record of stances hdd at Garrison, Loch Melvin, N. W. of Ireland,
by Mr. M. and self.
August 10th.—Sat down about half-past nine p.m., room well darkened.
Raps began very soon on different parts of the long table at a distance from
us, and on Mr. M.'s chair. These knocks soon assumed the dropping
character in the most marked manner. A novice would have been positive that
small objects had been thrown on the table (vide seance of July 20th). Knocks
heard in other parts of the room. Scent (sandal-wood) was freely scattered,
and on my asking for more we heard a sound like a prolonged wh sh,
and then a quantity was actually squirted in my face. Suddenly a large
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 321
August 1 \th.—Dr. S. and I, as before.—Dr. S. had written an account
of the last seance according to Mentor's direction, and we agreed to lay
it on the table and to ask Mentor to sign it with his name. The mani
festations commenced by raps, succeeded by Grocyn's musical sound.
Then came the lights as before, a dozen or more. They were precisely
similar to what I have before described. I was then deeply entranced,
and depend for the account of what then occurred entirely on Dr.
Speer. My consciousness is utterly lost. Mentor speaks in a hoarse
whisper, very short and sententious. Before I was entranced the
lights were placed on the paper which we wished him to sign. After
I was entranced Mentor brought the light down five or six times upon
the paper. He then said that he would illuminate the medium's face.
He did so, passing the light over it backwards and forwards. The
eyes were closed, and the face quite passive. He then explained the
process of making the lights—which Dr. Speer does not remember—•
said that the light was surrounded by drapery, and to prove it he
brushed Dr. Speer's hand, which was on the table, backwards and
forwards with fine drapery very distinctly materialised. This was
repeated five or six times, attention being directed to the character of
the light and the fineness of the drapery. On being requested, he
placed the light close to Dr. Speer's face, first of all telling him to
lean over and place his hands on the table, within the sphere of
influence. He was to shut his eyes, and to open them when told.
When he did so, the light was within an inch of his face, very bright,
light, fully formed, came from under the edge of the table opposite
to me, to the left of Mr. M. It rose above the edge of the table
and vanished ; it was followed by several more. We asked if
the light could be brought and placed on the table between Mr.
M. and self. The next light came up, rose above the table, and
advanced to its centre, in obedience to our request. Lights now rose up on
Mr. M.'s right hand ; some came close to his face. In all about fifteen great
lights showed themselves, varying from the size of an orange to that of a
shaddock. Grocyn's harp was now heard in the most distinct manner. The
sounds were absolutely identical with those of a stringed instrument, without
a trace of the wooden character. Loud raps of three kinds occurred simul
taneously, and ere long Mr. M. was entranced and Mentor came and
addressed me (through him) in his short, sententious manner. I thanked
him in our joint names for his wonderfully beautiful manifestations, at
which he seemed much gratified. He then told me to draw back from the
table and he would try and place the light in the medium's hand. We con
tinued talking, when a large light rose up from under the table and came to
the middle of it. It was followed by another. I asked if these were actually
in the medium's hand. He said "No—he could not achieve it. But,"
said he, "I will knock with the light in front of you." Almost immediately
a light came up as before, and advanced close to me upon the table. ' ' You
322 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
and as largo as the globe of a moderator lamp. This was twice
repeated. He then told Dr. Speer to rub his hands together and on
his coat, and then to place them on the table. Soon a large bright
light came, held by a hand which was, as before, within the drapery ;
but before the light was another hand, which was worked about before
the light, so as to show it clearly. Dr. S. was again told to rub his
hands on his coat and to place them on the table. When he had done
so Mentor rapped on them with his hand holding the lamp. He then
said that he was summoned away, but before he went he would
endeavour to affix his mark to the paper which had been prepared. He
did so, the pencil being very plainly heard moving over the paper. The
sign is facsimiled below.
The circle and interlaced triangles always accompany his signature. 1
see! You see I" quoth Mentor. "Yes, I see." "Now listen, I knock."
The light rose slowly about three inches from the table on which it rested and
struck three distinct blows. Mentor repeated this six or seven times. He
then said, "Now I show you my hand." A large, very bright light then
came up as before, casting a great reflection on the oilcloth, came up as
before in front of me ; inside of it appeared the hand of Mentor, as distinct
as it can well be conceived. " You see ! You see !" said he. "That is my
hand ; now I move my fingers," and he continued to move his fingers about
freely, just in front of my face. 1 thanked him for his consideration, and
he said he would show greater wonders still. I should say that before the
last light appeared he had told me to draw up and replace my hand. He
talked more about what we might expect if the favourable circumstances con
tinued. He checked his lieutenant, who was stamping about the room in
too demonstrative a manner ; gave me a special dose of scent ; told me to tran
scribe accurately all I had seen and heard ; told me to make the medium
wash his face in cold water before I related anything to him, and be sure
and tell him everything. He laid great stress on this, and exhorted me
strongly. Wished me good-night and departed. —S.T.S.
1 August llth.—Sat again at a quarter to ten. Raps began .almost imme
diately, and of the same character as on the preceding evening. I had placed
the written record of the previous seance (August 10th), together with a
pencil, in front of me. Grocyn again came. His sounds were perfect. Soon
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 323
August \ 2th.—Dr. Speerand self, at G»rrison.—We commenced by
rubbing our hands, and raps at once occurred. Grocyn clear, and the
whistle, but not loud. Lights clear and large. Grocyn's sound led
Dr. S. to say it was like King David's harp. Grocyn at once called
for the alphabet and said, " I know him." Dr. S. said : " Extra
ordinary ! " "Not at all," said Grocyn. Imperator entranced me and
said that the raps which had disturbed Dr. S. had been caused by the
efforts of the band to prevent some undeveloped spirits from manifest
ing. We had been to an old churchyard where there were some
curious tombs, and some spirits had attached themselves in eagerness
to manifest. He also said that I ought not to go to sleep in the day.
I had taken a nap after dinner. He explained that the lights were
made from a germ of magnetism which was brought. This germ was
invisible to the natural eye, and continued so until it was surrounded
by an envelope of something which was taken from the circle and
medium. This was covered with spiral drapery. Several of the lights
a large light came up from under the table, and came upon it. Knowing
that Mentor was present, I asked him to bring the light and illumine the
paper, which he did at once, and repeated the operation three or four times.
Light after light followed as before, when again loud raps all over the table,
and Mr. M. became entranced. Mentor now spoke through him. I told
him what I had done, asked if he was satisfied, to which he replied
" Yes," and he would now show mo more. I asked for his sign-manual of
approval to my record, upon which he at once brought a large light, and
placed it on it, so that I could see the writing. He said he would try and
do what I wished. He then said that he would illumine the medium's face.
He brought a large bright light, and passed it in front of his face, which I
could see. He then explained the process of making the lights, and told me
that the folds I saw around them hanging down were really drapery, which
he would prove to me. He then brought the light close to the back of my
hand, and brushed it backwards and forwards with as distinct a materialised
drapery as can well be conceived. This feat he repeated first on one hand
and then on the other, five or six times, at the same time directing my
attention to the character of the light and the tangibility of the drapery. I
then asked if he could place a light close to my face. He assented,
told me to rub my hands briskly, lean forward, and close my eyes until
told to open them. I did so, and on opening them I saw within
apparently an inch or so of my face a large and very
bright light of this shape, as large, indeed, as the globo
of a moderator lamp. ||| J This was also repeated with
equal success. He again told me to rub my hands on
my coat, and to extend them. Soon another large light came in front of me,
held, as on the previous evening, by a hand. On this occasion the hand ap
peared to be outside the light, as it moved the fingers about freely ; and also
removed itself some inches from the light towards me and back again severa
times, as though the light were held in the left hand, and the right hand placed
in front of it at various distances. He again told me to rub my hands and
324. The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.\
were made quite close to me. For all information during the trance
state I am indebted to Dr. Speer.
[A specimen of Mr. Moses' letters to Mrs. Speer may here be given to
show the way in which he mixes up accounts of the phenomena with topics
of private emotion :—,
" You will have heard of our little seances at Garrison. They must have
been very wonderful. I was, as usual, deeply entranced during the most
interesting parts. But I saw a great deal that was very wonderful indeed,
and we got information about the mode of making the light that was very
curious. At the last seance Imperator introduced S., and gave us a message
from him, promising that more would come in time. I have had very little
writing, but I expect I shall not get very much whilst I am moving about.
We were constantly wishing that you had been with us at Garrison. You
would have enjoyed the readiness with which Mentor manifested and the
eagerness with which he tried to show how he did everything. He brushed
Dr. Speer's hands with the drapery in which his light was shrouded, and
even rapped on his hands as they were laid on the table. His hand was as.
fully materialised and as natural as mine.
"Indeed, both his hands must have been materialised, for he put one
before the light which was held in his other hand. It is all very wonderful
and very convincing. He spoke with great contempt of London atmosphere,
and of me as a medium under conditions of hard work. I expect that great
results would spring from conditions such as those which we had at Garrison,
but they are not attainable.
"Since I commenced this letter I have had a very long communication
from Doctor, who has been absent for some time. He speaks a good deal
of our friend, says she is ' grievously sick,' and that the direction of her
mind to Spiritualism, which she associates with me, enables communications
to bo made about her state. Doctor says he has no power of predicting the
ultimate result, but says she is in danger, as we call it, of being entirely
separated from the body, to which only the strong bond which binds her
to her children yet unites her. Ho then says somewhat of our shortsighted
ness about what we call death. He says, in effect, God knows what we can't
know, and does all for the best. He then goes on to point out at very great
length the necessity of my praying most earnestly, heartily, and unceasingly,
listen. A light came and placed itself over my hand, and Mentor said ho
would knock with his hand on my hand, which he did, bringing the bottom
of the light and his own hand most distinctly on the back of mine. He then
said he must go to other work, but would try and write his signature. I
then heard the pencil writing, the sound being most distinct. He repeated
his admonition of the preceding evening, and departed, leaving a specimen
of direct spirit caligraphy.
In the above account I have omitted to mention the manner in which
Mentor asked me to notice how he would renew the light. He withdrew
his hand gradually, and the light became fainter and fainter, till almost im
perceptible. He then drew his hand in close proximity to the light, which
appeared to grow brighter as the hand came m contact with it. I may add
that a small portion of the forearm was also visible.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses., 325-
not of any more specific petition than that the angel ministers may be able
to reach her to soothe her pain in sickness, or in case of death to receive the
spirit and to usher it into its new sphere. It is an exceedingly solemn
exhortation. They say (Imperator said so, too, the other night) that they
can't get near on account of opposing influences. If I were nearer they
could, and my prayers might help more than I can imagine. They speak
most solemnly. I commend their advice to you, for I am sure that such
petitions as you would put up would be at least as efficacious as any that I
could utter. If by such means we are enabled to soothe one pain, or to
convey to the sufferer's mind one feeling of rest, it becomes a sacred duty
to use all endeavours. And none can tell how ' the slender nerve that
moves the muscles of Omnipotence ' may be able to bring down the sooth
ing and blessed influences of the holy angels, nor how far that influence
may extend. Only that our prayers are so selfish, I believe they would do
far more. The simpler they are the better ; the more comprehensive the
more powerful." ]
September Glh, 1873.—Seance at Shanklin, Isle of Wight. Dr. and
Mrs. S., and self.—Scent—sandal-wood—in profusion. Raps of various
kinds. Grocyn. Lights made by Mentor. Control by Imperator and
Mentor. This being the first time that the circle had met since we
separated in July, the phenomena did not occur so strongly as usual.
The musical sound was very clear, and the lights, some six or seven in
number, were of the usual type. The scent was very plentiful, and
was showered from the ceiling as usual. Imperator spoke somewhat of
our lost friend (B.C.), and said she had not yet awoke.
Sunday, September Ith.—Same place and circle.—Raps and com
munications from A. W. and C.P.S.S. Scent. Lights, of a totally
different description. One, which remained visible for fully five
minutes, was apparently a solid sphere of light about two inches in
diameter and six in length. It did not seem to be covered with
drapery, and shone with a clear, pale light. The great peculiarity was
the length of time it remained without renewal. Other lights have
faded very rapidly, lasting from ten seconds up to perhaps a minute.
I believe I have considerably understated the time which this continued.
At request it touched us all, and was hard and cold. Several others
followed. Three objects were brought into the room, one from the
dining-room, one from Mrs. Speer's bedroom, and one from another
room in the house. A spirit, " Harmony," came and rapped out in
clear little taps : " She is well ; still asleep." This spirit is one who
has never been incarnated on this earth. Imperator and Mentor
controlled, the latter brushing Mrs. Speer's face and hands with drapery
very strongly materialised. Grocyn's sounds very clear. We put
down a piece of paper under the table, and had on it a message from
A. W. and C.P.S.S. By mistake the same piece was put down again,
326 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
•and on it was a message from Imperator : " Hail ! Cease not to pray.
The peace of God be with you.—I.S.D."!
Monday, September 8th.—Same circle and place.—Scent, raps.
Message from Harmony : " Still asleep." Lights of a totally different
description,shrouded with drapery, and not nearly so brilliant, remaining
visible only a short time. Grocyn's sounds were very good, clear and
less wooden than of old. Mentor controlled very briefly and requested
the room to be made darker for the future. A bright moon was
shining. Paper put under the table, as before, was found to contain a
message from Imperator. There was no pencil with the paper, but two
lay on the table during the evening.2
Tuesday, September 9th.—Same conditions.—Plentiful scent as
before. Sixteen little pearls were put on the table, six having been
previously given during the day. Mrs. Speer and I were writing at
the same table, and a pearl was put on my letter as I was writing.
After that I saw a spirit standing by Mrs. Speer, and was told that it
was Mentor, who had put a pearl on Mrs. Speer's desk. After that four
others came. They seemed to drop on the table, just as I have seen
them with Mrs. A h. [A private lady known to Mr. Moses and to
myself, whose experiences have never been published.—F.W.H.M.]
We have in all twenty-two now. They are small seed pearls, each
perforated. Mentor showed some wonderful lights. One was so large
and brilliant that it lit up all our faces. It was like a draped tent
with bright light within it. The drapery brushed Dr. and Mrs. Speer's
hands. Many of them were large, weird and ghost-like. Grocyn
manifested beautifully, and said on his harp that he could not play a
tune through me, but that he was about Charlie, and Mendelssohn
would make him a great musician. We then were told to break, and
on returning to the room before it was darkened my little box with
the two pearls which Mrs. A h's spirits gave me slid gently
into my hand. It startled me very much. The box had been taken
away and to my great grief I could get no tidings of it. Mrs. A.
told me they had been taken to smooth communications with our
friend Sunshine, and that they would be returned. Mentor brought
1 September 7tlt.—A splendid seance. Grocyn and Mentor. Lights
0 appeared. One, upon request, remained visible and stationary for 45
minutes. It assumed the cylindrical shape, thus : and
tilted itself so as to show its cylindrical character.
Drapery was thrown over our hands and faces, and objects were
brought into the room through closed doors (as usual). —S.T.S.
1 September 8th [9th].—Seance. Direct spirit writing. Obtained a small
pearl case of Mr. M.'s, which had been lost for a month. Was brought back
in half light, while his hand was on the table, and put into it. It contained
two pearls.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 327
them back. This is one of the most startling evidences I have had.
Imperator brought us news of Sunshine, as Harmony could not come ;
and said she slept still. All was well with her. He delivered a very
long and solemn charge, followed by a beautiful prayer. It was an
exceedingly impressive speech. After the control I was very tired and
exhausted. The seance only lasted one and a quarter hours, but was
very exhausting.1
September \0lh, 1873.—Shanklin, same conditions. —Scent very
abundant. Grocyn played very beautifully, doing exactly what we
asked, even to playing octaves and thirds at Dr. Speer's request. Small
lights. Imperator controlled for a short time and said that the condi
tions were not good.2
September \lth, 1873.—Same place and circle.—Very copious scent,
very sweet. Verbena, being asked for, was given. Waves of cool air,
laden with scent, fanned us. Dr. Speer changed his place, and a
groaning noise in the table was made until he went back. Then we
were told that the places of the circle must not be changed. At first
the lights were a failure until the circle rubbed hands violently ; then
three of the brightest lights we have had came. The lights were large
and draped in long drapery, and the light was brilliant enough to show
a forearm, bare to the elbow. The hand was quite plain, and the arm
swarthy and rather thin, delicately shaped. It appeared three times.
Mentor afterwards said that in time he could materialise his body if I
•were put in a cabinet. Mentor spoke briefly. Imperator did not come
at all. The lights in shape were such as this, but with the drapery
sixteen or eighteen inches in length. Mentor wrote.3
1 September 9th.—Seance. Very good. Pearls brought in daylight. Direct
spirit writing.—S.T.S.
2 September 10th.—Seance. Conditions not good. Lights few and feeble.
The nuclei floated about without gauzy envelope.—S.T.S.
3 September 11th.—Seance. Pearls brought. An attempt made to raise
M.A. Table tilted. Three large bright lights, with a quantity of falling
drapery. To each an arm, bare to the elbow, was appended. Mentor gave
direct writing under the table, to the effect that he would eventually show
himself. Grocyn brought Mendelssohn, who could not yet communicate, but
would do so eventually.—S.T.S.
,32S The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
September 12th, 1873.—Shanklin. Dr. and Mrs. S., and self.—The
phenomena commenced on our rubbing hands, which we did vigorously.
Immediately, during the Invocation with which we began, a round light
was seen close to me, so close that I did not see it. Dr. S. saw it and
called attention to it, when it went out at once. The lights rapidly
developed to an extraordinary pitch. They flashed about backwards
and forwards with great rapidity, darting close to our faces and brushing
them with drapery. The solid cylinder was visible for full five
minutes and was very brilliant. The drapery seemed to change colour
at times, and to become black, or so dark as to conceal part of the light.
The solid cylinder seemed to be about eight inches long and two inches
in diameter. Mentor controlled, and spoke at length. He brought a
great quantity of scent, which he threw about, and some of it
unfortunately went into Mrs. Speer's eye, causing us to break abruptly.
It was explained that the scent was brought to improve the atmo
spheric conditions. It must have been very plentifully scattered, for
everything was spotted with it, and was evidently very pungent and
strong. 1
Sunday, September 14th, 1873.—Same circle and place.—Raps
from Mentor, who showed a number of lights, some of which were
comparative failures, the nucleus only being visible. This nucleus
Mentor has explained that he brings with him, and in unfavourable
conditions he is not able to surround it with the luminosity which
he gets from the circle. The power gradually improved until
we had one of the largest and brightest I ever saw. The light
illumined the walls, and the drapery must have been two feet in length.
Mentor also brushed our faces and hands with his drapery. I had
good opportunity for judging, and I should describe what I felt as the
corner of a very tine muslin robe, but finer and softer than any manu
factured in this country—more like the finest Indian fabrics. This is
the first time I have had opportunity of examining the drapery, and
even now I have not handled it.
Grocyn's sounds were more beautiful than I have ever heard them,
I think ; clear, resonant, and bell-like. The Holy Maid of Kent showed
herself to me in company with Catharine. She could not talk, but
1 September 13th [? 12th].—A singular seance. Grocyn absent, for the first
time for many weeks. A cylindrical light appeared at once, remained
for some minutes, came again, and moved about in every direction
and at all heights with great rapidity. Other lights appeared, of
curious shapes. Scent thrown in great
quantities—so much was thrown at Mrs. S.'s
eye as to produce excruciating agony and con
gestion of the eye, with almost blindness for 24
hours.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 329
rapped continuously little pencil-raps. John Dee gave one moderate
knock. Mentor controlled for a while, and gave us beautiful waves of
scented air, but no liquid, in consequence of the accident. After a
break Imperator controlled for a little time. Sunshine still slept, he
said, and would sleep for some time to come. She had passed through
two spheres of suffering during her illness, but would return and go
through them in the conscious state of spirit-existence. When we
broke up we found some flowers from the middle of the table had been
,distributed to each, and a little heap of pearl was put before each.
One hundred and thirty-nine little pearls have now been brought to
us, one hundred and ten in the last two days. Grocyn said he knew
Luther, who was in the Second Sphere. Erasmus was seventeen when
he came to him as pupil.1
1 September 14th.—Seance. Grocyn most distinct. He answered (through
his harp) questions about Erasmus. Mentor fanned us repeatedly. Three
splendid lights appeared ; an arm was seen ; drapery repeatedly thrown over
us. Flowers taken out of a vase upon the table and thrown at us.—S.T.S.
[Mrs. Speer's account is as follows (Light, August 20th, 1892) :—
September 14th, 1873.—Circle met at nine o'clock, Mr. S.M. having been
impressed to sit at this hour. I was occupied in my room about the proposed
time of our meeting, when several loud raps came on the door. On opening
it no one was there, so I concluded the friends wished my presence in the
seance-room. I at once joined the medium and Dr. S. On sitting down I
saw a bright figure standing behind Mr. S.M. We were told it was Mentor.
He then came between us, bringing cool air full of the scent of roses, which he
wafted over our hands and faces. G. manifested, making more beautiful
sounds than usual ; he answered our questions on his musical instrument,
which sounded like a harp. He said he knew Erasmus, that he was seventeen
years of age when he came under his instructions ; he also knew Melancthon
and Luther, of whom he did not express much approval. Mentor then
showed us lights, not equal to those we had previously had, but he was able
to brush our hands with the drapery surrounding them, which felt very fine
and soft, like India muslin. Then G. gave five twangs on his harp for the
alphabet, spelling out the word, " Break."
On returning to the room more beautiful scent was brought, and a little
sprinkled on our hands. Mentor many times during the seance fanned me with
the scent-laden air. He then showed us two or three very large lights. One
must have measured with its drapery quite two feet in height ; he brought
it close to my face, and brushed my hands many times with the drapery ; he
also touched my hand, and his hand felt as human as my own. Mentor
then controlled the medium, and expressed great sorrow for having
accidentally hurt me at a previous seance. The lights were not good, as Mr.
S.M. was ill, and the atmosphere was not right, and this interfered with
their development. The medium then said he saw a fresh spirit standing by
Catharine. She advanced to the table and rapped clearly. We were in
formed it was the " Maid of Kent," who had been allowed to come to the
circle for her good. We promised to pray for her. This announcement was
330 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
On September 28th we sat again. In the afternoon we had all
been to Kensal Green Cemetery. We had all the usual phenomena,
and in addition a spirit came which had annexed itself to me in the
afternoon, and rapped very clearly, asking for a prayer. Raps all over
the room. Grocyn carried his sound right away from the circle. At
night I was kept awake by the Kensal Green spirit, who knocked
most violently. A board near me was considerably moved from the
wall, as they wished to put it on the table.
Monday, September 29<A.—Douglas House.—A very irregular, dis
turbed seance. I was very far from well, tired and worn out with the
noise and worry of school. Nothing occurred for a long time, and we
made a short break. When we returned very little still occurred, until
sharp raps came, quite outside of the circle. It was one of the same
spirits who had annoyed me lately. It could not come on the table
until we asked it, but knocked about outside. At last it came much
more gently on the table and asked for prayer. A very curious and
quite new sound was made in the air, between Mrs. S. and myself ; a
whirring noise, sighing like the wind among the trees. I have since
heard it in my bedroom. Grocyn manifested, but feebly. We had
some scent also. I noticed before it came that the air was pervaded
by a damp, unplejisant odour. The whirring noise got so violent near
to my right ear that I broke up the sitting. It was like a solid
substance violently whirled round. The spirit would give no name
but "S."
Sunday, October 5th, 1873.—Douglas House. Our circle and Mr.
received by many very jubilant raps. Imperator then controlled the
medium, and after saying, "Good evening, friends," and blessing us, spoke
for a few minutes with difficulty. He said it would not be well to keep the
control, as the conditions were not good ; regretted the accident to my eyes,
and said Doctor would give the medium some rules it would be well for all
to follow. "AVe groped," he said, "in the dark even as they did. With
more perfect conditions the manifestations would surprise us. " Our friend
(to whom reference has been made) was still resting. She had passed through
the spheres of suffering during her illness. " I had wished " (ho continued)
" to speak to you on the subject of worship, but must postpono doing so
until a more convenient season. May the blessing of the Supreme be with
you." After Imperator left the medium. Mentor brought more scent, and
presented flowers to each of the circle. When we lighted the gas we found
a small heap of seed pearls in front of each of the sitters, placed by the
flowers Mentor had previously given to us.—M.S.]
September 16tk.—Seance. Grocyn as usual. He played, by request, on
his invisible tambourine, answered questions, and made somo singular wailing
sounds. Mentor made lights, which extended their range of mobility much
[further] beyond the circle than ever ; even up on to the ceiling. J. Dee
came and communicated. Rapped more quietly than heretofore. P. came
with very peculiar raps.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 331
Harrison.—We had the usual phenomena very strong. Scent in waves
of cool air, moist scent. Grocyn's sound very clear. Seneca's dropping
sound. Rector and Odorifer together, with a multitude of sounds on
the table. Mentor and Imperator controlled. Some small lights were
also made. When we went up into the cabinet upstairs, Mentor
made some very clear lights, one of which endured over four minutes.
I had been very anxious to try the duration of the light, because
an imitation of such lights is made by phosphorised oil ; but lights
so made are of very brief duration. I believe that a favourable
trial would show that Mentor's light would last seven or eight
minutes.
October 14th, 1873.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—We
sat in the study. Nothing occurred for some time. We remarked the
unusual absence, and almost while we were speaking a little Parian
statuette was put upon the table. It was brought from the front bed
room, which I usually occupy when staying in the house. It was
followed after an interval by a silver fruit-knife, which was brought
from a closed workbox of Mrs. Speer's in the dining-room. We were
then left in peace, and wondered where Grocyn was. A spirit came
tapping, and I asked that Grocyn might be fetched. It was rapped
out: "We are doing so." Mrs. S., who was calling the alphabet,
stopped, imagining, as we all did, that the sentence was finished. How
ever, the alphabet was called for, and " mething else " spelt. We could
not conceive what was meant till it occurred to us to put the "so" on to
it, and we found the sentence to be : " We are doing something else."
"We were told to form hands, and something fell on the table, which
turned out to be a snuff-box from Dr. Speer's dressing-room. Before
,it came he said that he smelt Tonquin bean, which had been in
the box. A curious snapping noise was heard in the air ; we had
scent-laden breeze, and then Grocyn came. Dr. S. had procured,
unknown to me, a book (Drummond's Life ofErasmus), from which he
selected test questions. Grocyn had before told us that he had become
acquainted with Erasmus at the age of seventeen. This, we had
thought, meant that E. became G.'s pupil at that time. We thought
that this contradicted the book, and Dr. S. quoted the book against
Grocyn. G. indignantly twanged out " Imperfect," and proceeded to
explain that he made E.'s acquaintance first when he went to Padua,
that E. came to England in 1798 and remained one and a-half years.
He also spelt the year of his birth, 1767, making him thirty-one when
he came to England. Dr. S. said, " No, thirty." Grocyn, however,
contradicted very sharply. The twangs had a curious intensity, just
as expressive as the excited tone of a disputant. Asked by Dr. S.
whether he knew the name of Chalcelydes, he promptly said " No."
z
332 The Experiences of TP. Stainton Moses.
Dr. S. said : " He was your tutor." " No." " But he was." " No."
" Do you know Domitian ? " "No." "Polonius?" "No." Calling
for the alphabet he twanged out : " Demetrius Chalcondyles," and
afterwards "Politian."
These turned out to be the correct names. We referred to the book
afterwards and found that Dr. S. had mistaken or forgotten the names.
The fact of Erasmus' staying one and a-half years we none of us
knew, and that Grocyn studied at Paris is not mentioned in the book. It
was a very curious piece of evidence as to identity. Some of the facts
were unknown to any of us. Some, e.g., names and dates, were wrongly
read and given, and were corrected promptly, the communicating spirit
showing just the same impatience as a man would who was examined
as to his life and heard false statements made. The twangs were of
great intensity, and the spirit showed a complete acquaintance with
Grocyn's life, which is a very strong argument for identity. One
would think a personator would not have got so indignant. He got
very wroth indeed. It was altogether curious evidence for identity as
against unconscious cerebration. The dropping sound of Seneca was
very loud indeed, and frequently repeated both on the table and
harmonium stool.1
End of Citations from Mb. Moses' Notes.
1 Seance on October 14ifc.—Mrs. S., Mr. M., and self.—For some time
nothing occurred, but then raps were heard in various places—on the floor, Mr.
M.'s chair, on the cupboard, in the air. Presently a small marble statuette
was brought from the spare bedroom upstairs, through the locked door,
and thrown on the table. Ere long a silver clasped fruit-knife was similarly
brought from a workbox in the dining-room. Shortly afterwards I per
ceived an aroma as of a Tonquin bean, and (we had been previously told to
join hands) a snuff-box which I had placed upon the chimney-piece of my
dressing-room upstairs was thrown on the table. After this there was a
pause ; we expressed astonishment at not hearing Grocyn, and asked if he
could be fetched. " We are doing so," was the reply ; but we jumped pre
maturely at our conclusion, for on resuming alphabet we were much puzzled
by the words " —mething else," the phrase standing thus, "We are doing
something else." This, in reality, preceded the appearance of the snuff-box,
and doubtless referred to it. After another pause Grocyn came most dis
tinctly. I at once entered into conversation with him respecting Drum-
mond's Life of Erasmus and the mention of his own name, &c., in that
work. I asked for the initial of the country he (Grocyn) had studied at, and
it was given, "Italy, University Padua." I asked if he knew the names
of Dionysius Calcedonys, and of Polonius ; answer negative. I remon
strated, having written those names down the day before from Drummond's
work. He then asked for alphabet, and gave the following names, which, on
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 333
I here close for the present the series of quotations from Mr.
Moses' records. We have traversed just a year from the date—
November, 1872—when the continuous series of these records begins.
And the reader has been introduced to nearly all the classes of
phenomena, which continue in varying intensity for some six or seven
years longer. It will not be necessary to follow them to the end in
equal detail. But, on the other hand, in the next instalment of
evidence we must deal with Mr. Moses' automatic writings as well,
and we must endeavour to give some such general view as may throw
light on the difficult question of the nature and identity of the
intelligences at work. Can we ascribe all the phenomena to some
operation of Mr. Moses' own subliminal self 1 or were other intelligences
engaged 1 and, if so, did they in any sense correspond to the persons
under whose names they announced themselves 1
But although anything like a comprehensive survey of the
phenomena must thus be deferred for a further paper, some clearness
may meantime be gained by a brief preliminary classification,—which
may also indicate the kind of difficulties which each possible explana
tion of the records will have to meet.
I. In the first place, as already implied, it is manifest that all the
phenomena do in some sort cohere together, and form parts of a single
referring to Drummond's work, were found to be perfectly correct :
Demetrius Chalcondyles, and Politian. He said he had studied at Paris ;
that Erasmus remained a year and a-half at Oxford, and arrived there at the
age of thirty-eight. All this was found (on reference) to be perfectly correct,
although no one had any knowledge of the latter facts, and the medium had
never seen the work of Drummond. The singular part of the scene con
sisted in the extraordinary evidence of personal feeling made by Grocyn
through the medium of his harp. The sounds were typical of approval,
disapproval, anger, impatience, and on one occasion a powerful string
sound changed instantly into a parchment sound. After a pause two
most violent blows fell on the table, so that we instinctively extended our
hands to seek the fallen objects. Nothing was to be felt. Mrs. S. being
somewhat startled, we suggested moderation. The' sounds were transferred
to the harmonium, rolling from that upon the stool, then on the floor, and
under the table towards my chair. This occurred upwards of fifteen times,
and would have led anyone not accustomed to these manifestations to expect
to find a corresponding number of hard bodies on the floor. Needless to say,
nothing was found.
Grocyn's information forms, 1 conceive, a most important contribution
to the much vexed question of personal identity.—S.T.S.
[This and similar biographies will be the subject]bf discussion later.
—F.W.H.M.]
Z 2
334 The Experiences of TP. Stainton Moses.
and prolonged effort, whose constantly avowed aim is the promulgation
of important truth. The authors of the automatic writing assert in
all possible ways that they are the authors of the physical phenomena
as well. Each series presupposes and refers to the other. The trance-
addresses given at the seances are continued by the messages written in
privacy. The phenomena of the seances are predicted in the automatic
script, and similar phenomena sometimes occur to Mr. Moses when
alone. Nay, the actual writing itself is common to both series. The
" controls " who write by Mr. Moses' hand as he sits alone produce in
the seance-room "direct writing,"—inscribing their names on blank
paper without the intervention of any human hand. The signatures of
the automatic and the direct script are practically identical ;—the only
difference being that the direct script looks as though written with
greater effort. Whatever element, then, either of weakness or of
strength is to be found in any part of Mr. Moses' evidence, that
strength or weakness affects all the evidence alike.
II. The relation between what we should call objective and what
we should call subjective phenomena is in fact much more complex
than is implied in mere community of origin. This matter is treated
of in the automatic script, and our discussion must be deferred until
we have those statements before us. Meantime it is well to point out
that the phenomena alleged go far beyond mere "telekinesis,"—that
power of moving objects at a small distance from the body which, as
was suggested in a previous paper, may conceivably be a power
inexplicably inherent in man in somewhat the same way as the power
to move his own limbs is inexplicably inherent. In these records we
find asserted what we can only describe as a transcendental chemistry ;
—a power of producing light without heat, like the glow-worm ; a power
of overcoming the force of cohesion, of disaggregating matter and re-
aggregating it in the same or different forms ;—-and even a power of
simulating in this re-aggregated matter that initiative and self-adaptive-
ness to which we give the name of life.
III. One more comment on the phenomena as a whole will not be
superfluous. To the ordinary reader these marvels will inevitably
appear arbitrary and incoherent. He will think that one might as
well have copied the so-called " phenomena " straight from the Arabian
Nights ; have asserted that Mr. Moses was made half of flesh and
half of marble ; or that he flew on a wishing-carpet ; or that the
genie burst out of the bottle in a pillar of smoke. There is, however,
something more of method in this apparent madness, although it is
a method which we can as yet only observe and not explain.
The fact is that the phenomena alleged to occur at seances may be
divided roughly into three classes :—
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 335
1.—The first and by far the largest class consists of tricks whose
mechanism is perfectly well known,—as well known as the way
in which the ordinary avowed conjurer produces the rabbit from
the hat. These tricks, indeed, are generally on a lower level
than those of the conjurer at a fair ; but in spite of repeated
exposures they serve, when dished up with the appropriate
" patter," to deceive the great mass of wonder-seekers bent on
the supernatural.
2.—The second class consists of phenomena somewhat similar to
those of the first class, but not at present reproducible by
ordinary conjurers. If these are genuine, then we may call the
first class imitations of them. If they are fraudulent, they
indicate that here and there a so-called " medium " has pro
fessional secrets of his own.
3.—The third class consists of a few rarely attested phenomena,
of which Home's fire-test is an example, which are not only not
completely imitated, but are not imitated with any kind of
plausibility, by even the most accomplished conjurers. Here
we have to assume either genuine phenomena, or some kind of
hallucination induced in the observers in some not readily
imitable way.
Now, in no one of these classes is the range of alleged phenomena
very wide ; and the phenomena in each class have a certain analogy
to the rest. Such an analogy can of course be explained in
two ways. Either all these phenomena are conjuring tricks, of which
some are better and some are worse ; or some of the phenomena are
real, and the rest are imitations, which aim less successfully at the
same effects. At this moment, however, I am not discussing the
question of fraud, but merely showing that the phenomena, true or
false, are constantly and independently repeated, and have not,
therefore, the arbitrariness and unexpectedness which characterise the
marvels of the Arabian Nights. The simplest way of showing this
will be to set aside all performances of paid mediums, and taking only
such non-venal phenomena as have been printed in our Proceedings
and Journal as possessing a primafacie claim to confidence, to exhibit
336 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
in tabular form their coincidences with the phenomena described in
Mr. Moses' records 1 :—
.
•5, 2
CJ .
Passage
of
matter
throuj
matter.
Sounds
made
on
instrume]
supernormally.
Movement
of
objects
untouched.
14
,o
W.S.M. 's princi
pal phenomena.
Intelligent
raps. Si
gg
d a
Direct
writing. Direct
sounds.
i
Is
c
!§
1 i IJghts.
i
P
> IS
54
i 3
O
Barrett's subjects X X
s
X X X
Bristowe and
friends X X
Dariex's subjects X X
Davis children X X X X X X
Gasparin X
"Mr.H."(friend
of Mr. Crowe) X X X X X X X
D. D. Home ... X X X X X X X X X X
Mr. O.'s friend X X X
The crosses show the phenomena alleged to have been obtained in
each case. In minor cases also recorded in Proceedings and Journal
the phenomena have been much the same.
I repeat that this general concordance of phenomena does not in
itself prove anything except that the phenomena are not alleged at
random. In the same way the general concordance of automatic
teachings does not in itself prove anything except that the subliminal
self thinks by preference in certain directions. But in each case, in
that of the " physical " and in that of the " intellectual " manifestations,
these general tendencies are likely, in some direction or other, to point
the way towards an ultimate explanation.
1 I have added M. de Gasparin's phenomena, not yet printed in Procetdingt
S.P.R., but mentioned by Mrs. Sidgwick in her article on "Spiritualism" in
the Encyclopedia Britannica ; and some incidents recorded by Professor Barrett
in the Dublin University Magazine for December, 1877, with some of Home's
phenomena not specified in the articles on him in S.P.R. Journal. The other
phenomena referred to will be found as follows :—Bristowe, Proc., Vol. VII., p. 383 :
Dariex, Vol. VII., p. 194: Davis, Vol. VII., p. 173: "Mr. H.," Vol. VII., p. 189:
D. D. Home, Journal Vol. IV., pp. 141, 249; Mr. 0,'s friend, .Proc.Vol. IX., p. 121.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 337
And now for a few words on the origin of these phenomena, if
they were not in fact the supernormal occurrences which they pretend
to be.
Collective hallucination,—the first idea which will present itself to
those who realise the strength here of the testimony to character,
—seems excluded by the number of permanent traces which the
phenomena left behind them. If objects are brought during the
seance out of rooms which Mr. Moses had never avowedly entered, and
are actually found and remain in the seance-room afterwards, there has
been more than a hallucinatory percept ;—a transposition of matter, by
normal or supernormal means, has actually been effected. Evidence of
this kind abounds in the records in question.
Shall we say, then, that the phenomena never occurred at all?
that the records are from first to last absolutely false, and concocted to
deceive the world, with no basis whatever ? This view might have
been upheld had the circle been always restricted to Mr. Moses and
the Speer family. But it was not so restricted. Some dozen other
persons, who cannot plausibly be held to be all in the fraud, witnessed
the phenomena. It is true that some of these witnesses are now dead
or inaccessible. But Serjeant Cox left a printed statement ; Dr.
Thomson, of Clifton, proved his belief by continued collaboration ;
Mr. Percival, Mrs. Garratt, Miss Collins, and Mrs. Honeywood are still
living, and cannot with any plausibility be treated as accomplices. Mr.
Percival's evidence, in particular, is that of an outside and occasional
member of the group, who is honourably known in academic and official
life, and who would have had everything to lose and nothing to gain by
complicity in such a fraud. He and Serjeant Cox and Mrs. Honeywood
and the rest may of course have been dupes ; but at least their testimony
shows that something sufficiently like Mrs. Speer's published record to
enable them to subscribe to its general accuracy did actually occur.1
Printed testimony from Mr. Percival has already been quoted, and
will be quoted again in a further paper. He was, moreover, a principal
redactor of such trance-utterances as were given in his presence ; and
thus Mrs. Speer's records printed in Light are largely due to him. As
an intimate friend he was kept well informed of the progress of the
phenomena throughout ; and it was, in fact, from him mainly that
Edmund Gurney and I received convincing verbal corroboration of Mr.
Moses' statements after our early interviews with Mr. Moses himself.
1 Just as this paper passes through the press two important MS, booksof the late
Miss Birkett, who died in 1881, have been found and sent to me. They contain con
temporary notes of various seances between 1874-1880 at which Miss Birkett was
present (which notes, so far as I have yet studied them, appear fully corroborative
of Mrs. Speer's accounts), and add some interesting matter. These notes will be con
sidered in the next paper. Mrs. Garratt has also kindly Bent me contemporary note
of a few seances,—also concordant, to be mentioned hereafter.
338 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
The testimony of an occasional member of the circle has been sent
to me as follows :—
Chadbury, Evesham, Worcestershire.
December 6th, 1893.
I was witness to the following phenomena, which took place at some of
the seances held at the house of Dr. and Mrs. Speer, under the mediumship
of Mr. S. Moses. Some of the raps were very loud, others clear, small and
rapid. The musical sounds were varied. I can describe one as soft and like
an Eolian harp passing through the air, another like the chord of a violon
cello pulled very strongly and reverberating through the large dining-table.
A small stone cross was brought to me, delicious scents pervaded the
atmosphere, and floating lights were visible in many parts of the room.
Helen C. Collins.
Another friend of Dr. Speer's, well known to myself, is Dr. Rooke,
a practising physician, of 7, Bays Hill-villas, Cheltenham. Dr. Rooke
writes to Mrs. Speer, November 23rd, 1893 :—
"As regards communications I had from Dr. Speer in. re Spiritualism, I
had a good many, taken altogether, and spread over the whole time from his
first becoming interested in the subject. I well recollect that he and Mr.
Moses spent a Sunday afternoon at my house, shortly after their Isle of Man
experiences, and the account they gave me of the disturbance of articles in one
of their bedrooms and the symmetrical way in which heterogeneous objects
had been arranged on the bed, the room having been previously locked, and
they having taken precautions against tricks on the part of any servant, and
I think also articles being also apparently brought through closed doors.
Then again, after several letters on the matter I had from Dr. S., he came
down to Cheltenham and stayed some days with us (you were not with
him), in which we talked the whole matter over repeatedly. He described
your stances at your own house and the various physical phenomena which you
have lately published an account of. I well recollect his laying stress on the
ponderous shaking of the furniture and floor of the room which one of your
spiritual visitors was in the habit of producing. He, like myself, was far
more interested m abnormal physical phenomena than in any trance mani
festations or spirit-teachings through the mouth of any medium. "
Dr. Rooke encloses a letter from Dr. Speer, which is worth quoting,
as the only letter which I have seen in which Dr. Speer describes the
phenomena to a friend outside the special group. It is dated 13,
Alexandra-road [Douglas House], N.W., July 13th, 1874.
" We have had two new spirits, one, ' Kabyla,' an old Indian, passed
thousands of years ago ; he has brought a new light, and materialised some
beautiful fine spirit drapery (upon his first attempt), which he swept over
our hands. We had last night an admirable specimen of zither playing,
for a length of time. The performer (we don't know his name yet) actually
performed what is called a free prelude; that is to say, a short unbarred
composition. The whole thing was most marvellous, for there is no zither
in our house, and it is an instrument that cannot be mistaken. Indeed, on
his departure, Grocyn, who dropped in immediately after for a chat, produced
his own sounds, and the contrast was of the most decided character.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 339
" Tho other evening a new comer slipped in, and stank us out of the room
"by throwing down from the ceiling a large quantity of Sp. Pulegii. Every
thing that it touched was impregnated for 24 hours. The dining-room cloth
and my own nether habiliments had to be exposed to view in the back
garden ; and on the following morning our dining-room floor and passage had
to be freely fumigated with pastilles. That spirit has not been invited to join
us again."
Dr. Speer was by no means given (Mrs. Speer tells me) to prosely-
tism ; and having met with some sneers when he alluded to these
phenomena in the presence of scientific friends he formed the habit of
saying little about them. I can, however, add here a letter from an
intimate friend of Dr. and Mrs. Speer, to whom the phenomena
were communicated during their progress :—
96, Great Portland-street, London, W.
November 23rd, 1893.
My Dear Sir,—I have no hesitation, but a ready willingness, in replying
to your request in the letter of yesterday, that 1 add my testimony to those
of the late Stainton Moses' friends who are in a position to offer an opinion
on the value attaching to the chief witnesses who were privileged to be
present at the series of experimental psychology with that famous sensitive,
viz., Dr. and Mrs. Speer.
I had the honour to be accounted by them as a friend, and knew them
both in their home, and the late Dr. Speer as a club friend as well. We
often talked over those well-attested experiments, and I was frequently
shown the place and nature of their conduct and of the truly " staggering"
phenomena which were continually being evolved. The smallest details,
with substantial permanent effects, such as direct writing and production
of objects unknown previously to the persons present, were entered into in
reply to my sceptical inquiries and suggestions ; and Dr. Speer, with
whom I claimed common possession of "agnostic" views, yielded me the
opportunity of measuring his capacity as a logical thinker free from pre
conceived opinions touching the matter in hand. He used to acknowledge
his difficulty in accepting the "logic of facts," but the inevitable working
of an open mind left him no alternative. The effect of such a contact of our
minds led me to accept his testimony as unquestionable and possessing the
value of absolute and verifiable facts.
With regard to Mrs. Speer, that lady, responding to my desire for
information at the source, helped me in every way to the best of her ability.
Her method was to put before me the facts, to show me some of the records,
to describe the conditions under which the seances were conducted, to
exhibit the material results, and with the patience of an experimentabst in
the pursuit of scientific investigation.
I cannot but think that those two witnesses, each in their own way, and
supplementing each other, were imbued with the desire to seek out the
treasures of knowledge and make use of the opportunities so fortunately
thrown in their path.
Healthier minds, pursuing their special object with greater success and
sounder judgment, I never met.—Yours sincerely,
J. Feed. Collingwood.
340 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Who, then, was implicated in the fraud, if fraud there were ? Mr.
Moses himself must, of course, have been primarily concerned. Bui
can we say that he performed the tricks in an unconscious state?
Or, whatever his own state may have been, can we say that he
performed the tricks alone ? or with accomplices other than the Speers 1
or with only one of the Speers to help him ? or must the whole Speer
family be involved ?
And first as to the hypothesis which would throw the blame on Mr.
Moses' " subliminal self." Mr. Moses, by his own account, fell into
trances, both during the seances, in his friends' presence, and also
occasionally when alone in his rooms, as his automatic writings show.
And besides these unmistakable trances, he was (as he himself told
me) once at least for some days in a state of exaltation, which did
not, indeed, prevent him from going through his routine school-work
without attracting comment, but which so far abstracted him from
ordinary life that acts then performed would not necessarily have been
remembered afterwards. This was in direct connection with long
religious messages which were then being written through his hand,
and which deeply moved him. And on one other occasion at least,
hereafter to be mentioned, he became entranced for a few seconds in
the course of ordinary talk, and uttered a sentence of which he had
no subsequent memory.
These facts should certainly make us receive with hesitation such
accounts as Mr. Moses gives of physical phenomena occurring when he
was alone. Thus, when on one occasion he mentions in his note-book
that his coat, ifec., had been disarranged during the night, we may well
suppose that he himself may have unconsciously moved them. The
same remark would apply to any easily producible phenomenon which
occurred during the seances, when he was in a trance in the dark.
On the other hand, we are told (and the existence of copious notes
of his trance-addresses confirms the statement) that frequently when
he was perceived by his fellow-sitters to bo in a trance, they lit a
candle to take down his utterances—and could then, of course, see
him as he sat at the table with them—while raps, apparently in various
parts of the room, continued as usual. On other occasions, no doubt,
he was entranced while musical sounds were heard, and scent fell, and
globes of light sailed about the room. But these tricks, if tricks they
were, were not such as a somnambulist could improvise, and then wake
up and forget them. No conjurer is so gifted as to find gold fish and
tubes of water under his trick-shirt unless he has previously put them
there. Nor would bladders of phosphorised oil occur spontaneously in
Mr. Moses' pockets, accompanied with a strong smell of otto of roses.
The tricks, in fact, would have had to be carefully and continuously
prepared and maintained ; and to say of a busy, active schoolmaster,
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 34>I
most of whose time was passed in his class-room or on the top of an
omnibus, that he was always packing himself with guitars, phosphorus,
large stones, Chinese chessmen, and small objects from the bedrooms of
his female friends, in a state of distraction, comes too near the indig
nant reclamations of the wives of materialising mediums, who maintain
that false beards and dirty muslin are secreted about their husbands'
persons by spirit-power.
No, if fraud there were, Mr. Moses may no doubt have been pre
disposed to such fraud by some peculiarity of temperament, but the
fraud was committed, I cannot doubt, with the knowledge and
complicity of every stratum of his being.1
But, in the next place, can we suppose that Mr. Moses, granting
him the use of all his faculties and full preparation, could by his own
act alone have imposed upon the other sitters 1
On this point, unfortunately, the very completeness of the
confidence which the Speers felt in their friend's probity has interfered
with the preservation of the kind of record which we desire. The
whole party were interested in watching the phenomena, and not in
watching each other, and the casual way in which even so important an
evidential point as the existence of a light in the seance-room is
alluded to shows how subordinate the conditions of the phenomena
soon came to be in comparison with the phenomena themselves. Soon
1 Though perhaps somewhat out of place, two testimonials to Mr. Moses may here
be inserted, which have been printed by Mr. Speer in his memoir above referred to.
The first, from Maughold Parishioners, on his resigning that cure, runs as follows :—
" 'Rkv. and Dear Sir,—We, the undersigned parishionersof Maughold, are much
concerned to learn that it is your intention shortly to resign the position which you
have for some years past so usefully and honourably occupied amongstus. We beg to
assure you that your labours have been greatly appreciated in the parish. The longer
we have known you, and the more we have seen of your work, the greater has our
regard for you increased. The congregations at both the churches under your charge
are very different in numbers to what they were some time ago. The schools hare
been better looked after ; the aged and infirm have been visited and comforted ; and
the poor have been cheered and helped by your kindness and liberality. By your
courteous demeanour, by your friendly intercourse, and by your attention to the duties
of the parish generally, you have greatly endeared yourself to us all ; and not least to
our respected and venerable Vicar, whose hands we are well satisfied you have done
all you possibly could to strengthen. We cannot but feel that your loss will be a very
serious one to the parish, and we should be glad if you could aee your way to remain
ing some time longer with us. By reconsidering your determination, and consenting
to remain, you would place us under a deep debt of gratitude and obligation.'
" Here follow the signatures of the Rector and Churchwardens, also of fifty-four
of the principal inhabitants of the district."—Spirit Teaching!, Memorial Edition,
1894, p. viL '
Again, on page ix. we find notice of another collective expression of esteem.
" On resigning his post through ill-health, the Council of University College
passed a resolution conveying to Stainton Moses their best thanks for his long and
valuable service to the school, and a special letter of affectionate regret was also sent
to him, signed by twenty-eight of his colleagues."
342 The Experiences of W. Slainton Moses.
>
came to be, I say, for Mrs. Speer and her son unite in saying that in
the earlier days Dr. Speer was really on the alert as to " test
conditions " ;—Mr. Charlton Speer remembering, for instance, that his
father had the legs of the large dining-table unscrewed, and the leaves
separated, when the first raps were heard, in order to satisfy himself
that no tricks had been played with that respectable piece of furniture.
But we have here largely to depend upon recollections, such as those
contained in the following letters :—
Ventnor.
November 29</i, 1893.
I wish to state that the most convincing evidences of spirit-power always
took place when hands were held.
Other manifestations occurred often in light, such as raps, raising of
table, scent, musical sounds, and showers of pearls. Lights also appeared
all over the room, coming and going by request, and rapping also by request
in different parts of the room.
A book was once brought in light out of one room and put into Mr.
8. M.'s hands, while Dr. Speer was sitting at his side in another room.
I saw a knife jump out of the butter dish and fall on to the table in light.
On one occasion the medium fell on to the floor in a deep trance, while
Grocyn was making most startling musical sounds, and at the same time
Catharine was rapping loudly to attract our attention, as she wished to give
a message to tell us to help Mr. S. M.
Two cameos were carved in light while we were dining, and message
given, through raps, to tell us where to find them. This was a very common
occurrence, as frequent raps and messages would be given while dining in
light.
At one seance as many as seven different sounds were going on at the
same time in different parts of the room. It would have been quite
impossible for any one person to have made them.
Maria Speer.
Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
November 27th, 1893.
Referring to your letter of November 17th, in which you ask for more
proof of the fact that Mr. Stainton Moses could not personally have
performed the manifestations which occurred through his mediumship, I can
only say that when I joined the circle it had been holding its investigations
for several years, and that the minds of the original sitters had been quite
convinced that it was out of the power of any of their members to have
produced the phenomena by trickery or conjuring. When they first sat
everything that happened was subjected to a rigid scrutiny, and test con
ditions were imposed with completely satisfactory results. However, during
the time that I sat with the circle I may draw your attention to the follow
ing points :—
(1) That we sometimes had a light during the progress of the mani
festations.
(2) That the phenomena were not confined to any one part of the room,
but took place indifferently near the medium and some distance
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 343
removed from him ; also that sounds were heard at various heights
extending from the floor to the ceiling, and the lights, as often as
not, were first seen approaching from the opposite side of the room
to that on which the medium sat.
(3) That the phenomena occurred just as freely in one room as in
another, and were in nowise affected by the seance being held in
other houses, and other places many miles removed from London.
This does away with the somewhat humorous theory of mechanical
contrivances.
(4) That when the medium was in a state of trance we always lit a candle
in order to take notes of what the controlling spirit had to say.
During the control the medium's hands and face could therefore bo
plainly seen, and even then raps could be heard in other parts of the
room.
(5) We often tried, without success, to imitate the various raps, thus
showing that the sounds produced (by the outside intelligences) did
not depend for the quality of their tone upon the nature of the
substance of the table, or whatever other object was apparently
used in their manufacture.
Charlton T. Speeb.
Mr. Percival, for whose return from abroad I have waited, before
printing off the end of this paper, sends me the following letter :—
Sproughton Manor, Ipswich.
December 25th, 1893.
My Dear Myers,—I was an intimate friend of the late W. Stainton
Moses for nearly 20 years, and I regard him aa one of the most truthful and
upright men I have ever known. I attended a considerable number of
seances at Douglas House, and I am convinced that it was physically
impossible for him to have produced such a manifestation as the " shaking
of the floor " of the seance room, which frequently occurred. I also believe
that manifestations such as raps and lights were often produced while he was
in a state of deep trance. With regard to the seances described in your
paper, at which I myself was present, I can fully endorse the records of the
other sitters ; I took notes at the time, which I still possess, and they have
been used by Mrs. Speer. I always considered W. Stainton Moses to be a
man of unusual ability, and I believe he would have succeeded in almost any
line of life which he might have taken up. His mind was perfectly free
from delusions of any kind, so far as I can judge, and in all the affairs of
daily life he was eminently practical and conscientious.—Yours very sincerely,
F. W. Percival.
These letters, although of course not equal in evidential value to the
contemporary notes, appear to me to be concordant with those notes, in
which, as will already have been observed, sittings in full or half-light
and sittings with hands held are occasionally mentioned, and mentioned
in an incidental fashion which suggests that there has been no special
effort made to pick out the most evidential occurrences.
344 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
Further than this, I repeat, we cannot now go ; and the looseness
of the record on these points may serve to enforce the lesson that all
records of supernormal occurrences, however intimate the group among
whom they occur may be, should be kept with as much as possible of
the precision usual in ordinary physical experimentation. There is no
saying what point may afterwards be raised, what doubt expressed,
which a few words in the contemporaneous record would have cleared
up altogether.
And now, assuming, as I think many readers will do, that Mr.
Moses could not have performed all these supposed tricks unaided,
can we suggest any accomplice other than the Speers themselves 1
Could he, for instance, have suborned their servants 1
But the phenomena occurred not only in Dr. Speer's house, or in
houses rented by him, but in the houses of other friends (Dr. Thomson,
Mrs. Honeywood, Serjeant Cox) and in ordinary sea-side lodgings
(Southend, Shanklin, tfec.), and especially at a little inn at Garrison, an
Irish village, to which Dr. Speer and Mr. Moses had gone for some
fishing. It would have been hard to transport either accomplices or
apparatus to all these places in turn.
And now another point suggests itself. What was the attitude of
the younger Speers, the son and daughter, who were children when the
manifestations began, but were admitted to the seances about 1877,
when the phenomena were already on the decline 1 Can we suppose
that Mr. Moses was in league with their parents to deceive them, or
were they also members of the supposed plot ? I have already cited a
brief letter in which Mr. Charlton Speer gives reasons for believing
that he was not deceived by Mr. Moses. I subjoin a longer account
from him, and a brief note from Miss Speer, who is an invalid. It
will, I think, be felt that Mr. Charlton Speer cannot be separated
from his parents in the matter. Honest or otherwise, his position is
the same as theirs.
My Dear Mr. Myers,—You have asked for some of my personal
recollections of seances with Mr. Stainton Moses, at which I was present. I
will endeavour to place before you a few experiences which may be of
interest ; and though very much that I remember would merely be a
repetition of Mrs. Stanhope Speer's Records lately published in Light, yet
certain things did strike me very strongly at the time, as being valuable tests
of the genuineness of the manifestations ; and these perhaps might have been
more strongly insisted upon in the Records, had they been prepared for the
perusal of a sceptical, or at any rate an unconvinced, public. The habitual
readers of Light having presumably advanced somewhat beyond the
elementary, but all-important, stage of mere belief in the reality of spirit
manifestations, would probably not set so much store upon the simple details
of tests, uninteresting in themselves, but asked for and given as conclusive
proofs of the spiritual origin of these same manifestations. It is some of these
The Experiences of W. Stainton Hoses. 345
occurrences, taking place under test conditions, that I propose to describe to
you. It is important to note that at these seances no less than ten different
kinds of manifestations took place with more or less frequency. On occasions
when we had fewer varieties we were usually told that the conditions were
not good. When they were favourable the manifestations were more
numerous, the raps more distinct, the lights brighter, and the musical
sounds clearer. The various occurrences may be briefly enumerated as
follows:—
1. Great variety of raps, often given simultaneously, and ranging in force
from the tapping of a finger-nail to the tread of a foot sufficiently heavy to
shake the room. Each spirit always had its own distinctive rap, many of
them so peculiar as to be immediately recognised ; and these sounds often
took place in sufficient light for the sitters to see each other's features and—I
suppose more important—hands. Raps also were frequently heard on the
door, sideboard, and walls, all removed some distance from the table at
which we sat. These raps could not possibly havo been produced by any
human agency ; of that I satisfied myself in every conceivable way.
2. Raps which answered questions coherently and with the greatest
distinctness ; also gave messages, sometimes of considerable length, through
the medium of the alphabet. At these times all the raps ceased except the
one identified with the communicating spirit, and perfect quiet prevailed until
the message was delivered. We could nearly always tell at once with which
spirit we were talking, owing to the perfectly distinct individuality of each
different rap. Some of the higher spirits never—in my time—manifested by
raps at all, but announced their presence by a note of music, or the flash of a
light ; but among those who did manifest in the usual way it would be difficult
to forget Rector's heavy, ponderous, but muffled tread, which shook the whole
room with its weight, while it appeared to move slowly round the circle.
3. Numerous lights were generally visible to all the sitters. These lights
were of two different kinds—objective and subjective ; the former were
usually like small illuminated globes, which shone brightly and steadily, often
moved rapidly about the room, and were visible to all the sitters. A curious
fact in connection with these lights always struck me, viz., that looking on to
the top of the table one could see a light slowly ascending from the floor,
and to all appearance passing out through the top of the table, the table itself
apparently not affording any obstacle to one's view of the light. It is a little
difficult to explain exactly what I mean, but had the top of the table been
composed of plain glass, the effect of the ascending light as it appeared to
one's organs of vision would have been pretty much the same as it was, seen
through the solid mahogany. Even then, to make the parallel complete, it
would be necessary to have a hole in the glass top of the table.through which
the light could emerge. The subjective lights were described as being large
masses of luminous vapour, floating round the room and assuming a variety
of shapes. However, Dr. Speor and myself being of entirely unmediumistic
temperaments, we were only able to see the objective lights, but Mr. Stainton
Moses, Mrs. Speer, and other occasional sitters frequently saw and described
those which were merely subjective. Another curious point in relation to the
objective lights was that however brightly they might shine they never
—unlike an ordinary lamp—threw any radiance around them or illuminated
346 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
the smallest portion of the surrounding darkness—when it was dark— in the
slightest degree.
4. Scents of various descriptions were always brought to the circle —the
most common being musk, verbena, new-mown hay, and one unfamiliar odour
which we were told was called spirit-scent. Sometimes breezes heavy with,
perfume swept round the circle, at other times quantities of liquid musk, «fcc.,
would be poured on the hands of the sitters and, by request, on our
handkerchiefs. At the close of a seance scent was often found to be oozing;
out of the medium's head, and the more it was wiped away, the stronger
and more plentiful it became.
5. The musical sounds,which were many and of great variety,formed a very-
important item in the list of phenomena which occurred in our presence.
Having myself had a thorough musical education, I was able to estimate, at
its true value, the importance of these particular manifestations, and was
naturally well able to judge of the possibility or impossibility of their
being produced by natural means, or through human agency. These sounds
may, roughly speaking, be divided into two classes : those which obviously-
proceeded from an instrument—a harmonium—in the room, whilst the hands
of all the sitters were joined round the table ; and those which were pro
duced in a room iviihout an instrument of any kind whatever therein.
These latter were of course the most wonderful. As regards the musical
sounds produced in the room in which there was no instrument, they were
about four in number. First, there were what we called the " fairy bells."
These resembled the tones produced by striking musical glasses with a small
hammer. The notes thus given forth were clear, crisp, and melodious. No.
definite tune was ever played, but the sounds were always harmonious, and,
on being requested by me or any other member of the circle, the " bells "
would always run up or down a scale, in perfect tune. It was difficult to
judge where the sound of these "fairy bells" came from, but I often
applied my ear to the top of the table, and the music seemed to be somehow
in the wood—not underneath it ; as on listening under the table, the music
would appear to be above. Next we had quite a different sound—that of a
stringed instrument more nearly akin to a violoncello than anything else I
have ever heard. It was, however, more powerful and sonorous, and might
perhaps be produced by placing a 'cello on the top of a drum or anything
else likely to increase the vibration. This instrument was only heard in
single notes, and was used entirely by one spirit, who employed it usually for
answering questions, in the same way that others did by raps. The third
sound was an exact imitation of an ordinary hand-bell, which would
be rung sharply by way of indicating the presence of the particular spirit
with whom it was associated. We naturally took care to ascertain that there
was no bell of any kind in the room ; even if there had been, it would have
been a matter of some difficulty to have rung it round the walls, and even up
to the ceiling, as this particular sound proceeded indifferently from all parts
of the room. Lastly, we had a sound that it is exceedingly difficult to offer
an adequate description of. The best idea of it I can give is to ask you to
imagine the soft tone of a clarionet gradually increasing in intensity, until
it rivalled the sound of a trumpet, then by degrees diminishing to the
original subdued note of the clarionet, until it eventually died away
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 34,7
in a long-drawn-out melancholy wail. This sound was ascribed to
"Odorifer."
This is a very inefficient description of this really extraordinary sound,
but as I have in the whole course of my experience never heard anything
else at all like it, it is impossible to give to thoso who have not heard it a
more accurate idea of what it was like. Like the two previous sounds I have
described, it was always associated with one spirit.
It is a noteworthy fact that in no case did the controlling agencies pro
duce more than single notes, or at best isolated passages. This they
accounted for as owing to the peculiarly unmusical organisation of the
medium. At any rate, the production of these sounds was wonderful enough
in itself, as over and over again I thoroughly satisfied myself that there were
no materials in the room which could in any way assist in making any kind of
musical tones, and the clarionet and trumpet sound was one that I should
be utterly at a loss to imitate in any way, whatever materials might be at my
disposal. Before I joined the circle several other musical instruments were
frequently imitated, and all were heard with greater variety, both of manipula
tion and tone ; but as I am now only giving you a brief epitome of what
actually happened under my own observation, I refrain from alluding to
occurrences which took place when I was not present.
6. Direct writing was often given, sometimes on a sheet of paper placed
in the centre of the table and equidistant from all the sitters ; at other
times one of us would place our hands on a piece of paper previously dated
and initialled, and usually a message was found written upon it at the con
clusion of the seance. We always placed a pencil upon the paper, but
sometimes we only provided a small piece of lead, the results being the same
in both cases. Usually the writing took the form of answering questions
which we had asked, but sometimes short independent communications were
given, also messages of greeting.
7. Movements of heavy bodies such as tables and chairs were by no
means infrequent. Sometimes the table would be tilted up at a considerable
angle. At other times the chairs of one or more of the sitters would be pushed
more or less forcibly away from the table, until they touched the wall be
hind—or the table would move away from the sitters on one side and be pro
pelled irresistibly against those on the other, compelling them to move their
chairs in order to avoid the advance of so heavy a piece of furniture. The
dining-table in question at which we usually sat was an extremely weighty
one, and was made from solid Honduras mahogany, but at times it was
moved with much greater ease than the combined efforts of all the sitters
could accomplish—and these combined efforts were powerless to prevent its
moving in a certain direction, if the unseen force willed it to do so. We
frequently tested the strength of the force by trying to check the onward
movements of the table, but without success.
8. The passage of matter through matter was sometimes strikingly
demonstrated by the bringing from other rooms of various articles through
closed and bolted doors. Photographs, picture-frames, books, and other
objects were frequently so brought, both from rooms on the same floor and
from those above as well. How they came through the closed doors I
2 A
348 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
cannot say, except by some process of de-materialisation ; but come they
certainly did, apparently none the worse for that process, whatever it might
have been.
9. The direct spirit voice, as opposed to the voice of a spirit speaking
through the medium while in a state of trance, we very seldom heard, and
never with any clearness or distinctness. But occasionally it was attempted,
and by listening carefully wc could distinguish one or two broken sentences
which were hissed out in a sort of husky whisper. These sounds generally
seemed to be in the air above us, but they were produced with evident
difficulty, and there being so many other methods of communication, tho
direct voice but seldom was essayed.
10. The inspirational addresses given by various spirits through Mr. S. M.
when in an entranced condition have been so thoroughly dealt with by Mrs.
Spcer in her "Records," that I can add nothing as regards the matter
thus expounded. Touching the manner of these addresses—one or more
of which we had at almost every seance,-—I can only say that they were
delivered in a dignified, temperate, clear, and convincing tone, and that
though tho voice proceeded from the medium it was always immediately
apparent that the personality addressing us was not that of the medium.
The voice was different, and the ideas were not always in accordance with
those held at the time by the medium. An important fact, too, was that,
although many spirits exercised this power of control, the voice which spoke
was always different—and in the case of those spirits which controlled
regularly, we got to know perfectly well which intelligence was communicating
by the tone of voice and the method of enunciation.
So far, in this enumeration of the various phenomena, I have been speak
ing generally of the manifestations which usually occurred at most of our
sittings ; but, in conclusion, I will give you two particular instances, one of
direct writing and one of identity, both of which I think are interesting,
and which certainly impressed me considerably.
On one occasion we were told to cease for a time, and resume the stance
later on. I asked the communicating intelligences if they would, during the
interval, give me a sample of direct writing under test conditions. An
affirmative reply having been given, I procured a piece of my own note-
paper and, unknown to the other members of the circle, I dated and initialled
it, and put a private mark as well in a corner of the sheet. The others
having retired from the dining-room to the drawing-room, I placed my piece
of paper with a pencil under a table in the study, and having thoroughly
searched the room, I barred the shutters, bolted and locked the door, and
put the key in my pocket. I leant against the door, or for a change sat on
the doormat, until I re-entered the room ;— when to my great satisfaction I
found a message clearly written on the paper. As we had not been sitting in
the study, and as I can positively aver that no one entered the room after I
had left it until I myself unlocked the door, I have always considered this
particular instance of direct spirit writing a most satisfactory and conclusive
test.
The other occurrence that I consider specially worthy of mention took
place as follows :—We were sitting one night as usual, and I had in front of
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 349
me, with my hand resting upon it, a piece of note-paper with a pencil close
by. Suddenly the medium—Mr. Stainton Moses,—who was sitting exactly
opposite me, exclaimed, ' ' There is a very bright column of light behind you."
Soon afterwards he said that the column of light had developed into a spirit-
form. I asked him if the face was familiar to him, and he replied in the
negative, at the same time describing the head and features. When the
seance was concluded I examined my sheet of paper which my hand had
never left, and found written on it a message and signature. The name was
that of a distinguished musician who died in the early part of the present
century. I purposely refrain from specifying him, as the use of great names
very frequently leads to results quite different from those intended. However,
now comes the most extraordinary part of the affair. I asked Mr. Stainton
Moses—without of course showing him the written message—whether he
thought he could recognise the spirit he saw behind my chair if he saw a
portrait of him. He said he thought he could, sol gave him several albums
containing likenesses of friends dead and alive, and also portraits of various
celebrities. I remained in another part of the room, and did not watch him,
nor even knew when he was looking at the right album. On coming to the
photograph of the composer in question, he at once said without hesitation,
"That is the face of the spirit I saw behind you." Then for the first time
I showed him the message and signature. I regarded the whole incident as
a very fair proof of spirit-identity, and I think that most people would
consider the occurrence one of interest.
I feel that this letter has grown to an unconscionable length, and I must
apologise for the bald manner in which many of the statements made therein
have been set forth. I have been considerably pressed for time, and can only
hope that the manifold crudities of language may, to a certain extent, be
compensated for by the fact that the whole is an impartial and unprejudiced
account of some of the remarkable phenomena to which I was a witness,
and the genuineness of which I am ready at any time to vouch for.
(Signed) Charlton T. Speer.
November 5th, 1893.
Ashley Villa, Ventnor.
October 30th, 1893.
I wish to state that I am a daughter of Mrs. Stanhope Speer, and was
present at many of the seances recorded in Light by my mother, and; further,
that the facts therein stated are in my recollection, and are true, and that
the phenomena actually took place.
Constance Rosalie Sfeer.
I must now leave the reader to judge whether, if these phenomena
were fraudulent, the Speer family can be acquitted of complicity in the
fraud. If we were dealing with a number of known cheats, or of quite
unknown persons, we should, I think, certainly pronounce the whole
group equally concerned. And here, where the witnesses are all of
equally good repute, I do not myself feel able to draw any dividing line
between one and another of them.
2 a 2
350 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
It is not, indeed, clear in what way the Speer family could have
benefited by such a course of deception. With regard to Mr. Moses
himself, there was undoubtedly what might be regarded as a consider
able, though a mixed, gain. There were some annoyances and anxieties
which his note-books show him to have felt severely, but to which I
need not here refer. On the other hand, there was the glory of being
regarded by the Spiritualist body in England and America as a leader
gifted with supernormal powers.
A prospect somewhat of this type has often been enough to tempt
to fraud. Yet, having seen something of the way in which such
impostors deal with their real or manufactured evidence, and of the
way in which Mr. Moses dealt with his, it has often struck me that his
mode of producing it was very unlike theirs. It happens that I have
had repeated discussions with Mr. Moses as to his method of putting
his phenomena before the world, which, as it seemed to me, was
too scrappy and incidental to do them full justice. I had myself
seen the pile of note-books ; and I urged him to print them at once
in as full a form as possible. He delayed and demurred, saying that
they were too private for publication. I then urged him at least to
reprint Spirit Identity in an exacter form, and with additional corro
borations. This he used to promise to do ; and he said that he would
ask me to help in some such task when the time came. But he still
delayed ;—delayed until the year before his death. Then he began
to print Mrs. Speer's notes of seances, and some of his own, in Light ;
and he prepared a tract called The Identity of Spirit, which I hope to
print in a further article, and which gives the gist of Spirit Identity
in a more exact form. This type-written tract is marked "Only
partially revised."
Now, it seems to me that Mr. Moses' conduct throughout was ex
plicable on the view of him taken by his friends ; namely, that he was
a reserved, sensitive, somewhat proud man, who disliked being discussed
as a "medium," or baring his inner life to the public, and who wished
only to utter just so much of his own experiences as might give him
the authority on these subjects which he felt that he had a right to
claim.
If these note-books had not, in fact, existed ;—if he had had no
real testimony to fall back upon ;—reserve would of course have been a
cheat's natural resource. But since the books do exist, and are full
of what purports to be evidence, how is it that, if he had elabo
rately got up all that evidence, he was so reluctant to bring it out ?
Having blacked himself all over so thoroughly for his part of Othello,
why was he so coy about removing more than his gloves 1
If, then, I attempt to sketch the inner history of these trans
actions on the hypothesis of fraud, the best scheme that I can offer
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 351
for the use of the perspicacious critic will stand somewhat as
follows.
" Beneath the semblance of probity,"—let him say—" the mask of
sanity, Mr. Moses concealed an unscrupulous love of leadership and
notoriety, a morbid passion for mystifying mankind. Unable to gratify
this craving in the humdrum life of a parish clergyman, he found in the
craze of Spiritualism a congenial field. He must at some time,—possibly
in his retirement on Mount Athos,—have quietly acquired considerable
conjuring skill. He was able, for instance, to persuade Serjeant
Cox that he moved a large dining-table and raised it partially from
the floor in full daylight, without any apparent contact. His deal
ings with phosphorus also went beyond the ordinary chemical reper
tory ;—unless, indeed, we credit the ' spirit-lights ' to his more
scientific confederate. For he seems to have felt from an early period
the need of accomplices to assist his contrivances and spread his
renown. His thoughts naturally turned 'first to the physician who
had just brought him through a dangerous illness,—a gentleman of
trained scientific capacity, but whose materialistic views had probably
blunted his sense of right and wrong, and disposed him to find
amusement in laughing in his sleeve at mankind. On the other
hand, Mrs. Speer's serious and religious temperament was useful in
its own way, for she would readily suggest to herself some high
moral purpose for the sake of which a lifetime of fraud might
blamelessly be embraced. Mr. Charlton Speer again, as a pure artist,
would care little about bourgeois truth and honour. The next need
was a dupe of good character to take notes and to admire. The choice
of an Oxford graduate secured adequate philosophy and grammar ; while
a position in the Civil Service might be thought likely to have fostered
a spirit of complaisant credulity. What was now needed was wide
advertisement ; and the means chosen, if indirect, were none the less
subtle. Books out of print are often the most sought after ; nor
perhaps could a savour of tempting rarity have been better given to
the fictitious experiences than by consigning their truncated record to
a moribund magazine. Thus launched on the world, the conspirators
divided their parts as their special gifts suggested. Mrs. Speer's line
was of course the womanly and the religious. She corresponded with
Mr. Moses on serious and intimate matters, so as to give him the
opportunity in his replies of alluding to his bogus phenomena as
though they formed an ever-present element in his inner life. For this
correspondence,—of which only fragments have as yet seen the light,—
a fraudulent use will doubtless be some day found. Mrs. Speer helped
also in Spirit Teachings, and perhaps contributed that semblance of
high moral tone which serves to screen the essential insidiousness of
the work as a whole. The task of the scientific husband was delimited
352 The Experiences of TP. Stainton Moses.
with an astute reserve. The sum and output of Dr. Speer's twenty
years of fraud was to be embedded in a couple of penny note-books,
which he was slyly to keep to himself. He could reckon pretty
confidently, indeed, upon their being ultimately revealed with
triumphant pedantry by someone whom he had never set eyes on, at
an indefinite date after his death. Meantime, with the characteristic
secretiveness of the impostor, Mr. Moses accumulated in his locked
drawers the documents on which his pretensions reposed. The present
thus amply enjoyed, all that remained was to plan for the development
of future fame. The gang had naturally maintained intimate friendships
with persons of known position and character. It was a stroke of
consistencyto bequeath the unpublished manuscripts to gentlemen of this
type ; even with the risk that such executors might treat the records
in a spirit of masterly inaction. Some nincompoop with nothing
better to do was sure to beg for permission to study and arrange the
precious stuff ; and some up-to-date Editor of the New Journalism was
equally certain to jump at the copy for his high-toned print."
"If you want any more," as the adage runs, "you may sing it
yourself."
But the private confidence which prompts a tone of irony when the
probity of trusted friends is thus under discussion, will not be, and
ought not to be, communicable in its fulness to other minds. I ask no
immunity for Mr. Moses and his group from that jealous scrutiny to
which every claim to supernormal powers should of right be subjected.
No one concerned in this story will resent the most searching ques
tions, the most extreme hypotheses. And, indeed, even for those who
may be willing to accept these records as a transcript of actual fact,
the period of question, of hypothesis, has yet only just begun. What
was there verily, we must go on to demand, behind this bewildering
manifestation 1 What power, and with what purpose, was working in
what unknown way 1 Yerane te fades, verus mihi nuntius ad/era t
There must yet be many a pondering of the trustworthiness, the
significance, of this incursion upon the private counsels and sequestered
commonwealth of men. And when all is done there will remain a
mystery which neither our belief shall comprehend nor our incredulity
unravel.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 353
NOTE.
It is expressly stated in each part of these Proceedings that the
responsibility for both facts and opinions rests solely with the author of
each article. Since, however, it seeras possible that the publication of so
great a mass of documents, of very pronounced character, as are already
included, or are to be included, in Air. F. W. H. Myers' papers on the
Experiences ofMr. Stainton Moses, may be misinterpreted as implying an
adoption on the part of the Council which authorises their publication,
of something like the point of viewfrom which Mr. Moses' records were
written, afew words of explanation may here be useful.
Two main points are involved in these Records ; (1) the supernormal
character of the alleged plienomena ; (2) the specific interpretation which
Mr. Moses gives to them. With regard to thefirstpoint, the Council are of
opinion tlutt, taking into consideration the character of the records of
which a part is here published, the conditions under which the recorded
phenomena occurred, and the general circumstances of Mr. Moses' life,
the supposition that the phenomena are to be explained by deception on
the part ofMr. Moses, whether in a normal or an abnormal state, is in
a very high degree improbable ; and that therefore the records constitute an
important part of the evidence which it is the duty of the Society to
collect and to put before the world, without necessarily pronouncing a
decisive conclusion as to its validity. On the question whether the
improbability of deception is greater or less than the improbability that
the events actually occurred as recorded the members of the Council
individually entertain diverse views, and they do not feel called upon
to express any opinion collectively.
With regard to the second point, the Council would remind the
reader that where, as in these records, actual observation is obviously,
and indeed avowedly, mingled with imported theory, the distinction
betweenfact and inferencefromfact must be kept in view throughout.
Much matter of importance remains to be printed; and afinaljudg
ment can hardly beformed until the whole case shall be under review.
Frederic W. H. Myers, 1 Hm &M s p R
Frank Podmore, J
354 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
INDIAN MAGIC AND THE TESTIMONY OF CONJURERS.
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
In the Nohh American Review for January, 1893, appeared an
article entitled "High Caste Indian Magic," over the name of the
well-known professor of conjuring, Mr. Harry Kellar. In this article
Mr. Kellar gives an account of various marvels which he declares that
he personally witnessed in India, and he states that " the high caste
fakirs, or magicians, of Northern India have probably discovered natural
laws of which we in the West are ignorant. That they succeed in over
coming forces of nature which to us seem insurmountable, my obser
vation satisfies me beyond doubt." This dictum raises an interesting
general question as to the value of conjurers' descriptions of perform
ances of the kind described,—besides the question as to the value of
Mr. Kellar's testimony in particular. I propose to deal briefly with
these two questions. The previous publications on this subject by Mr.
Kellar that have fallen under my notice are three short articles which
appeared in Leisure Hours for March, April, and May, 1892, and a
book published in 1886, entitled : A Magician's Tour Up and Down
and Round About the Earth, being the Life and Adventures of the
American Nostradamus, Harry Kellar. Edited by his faithful
" Familiar," " Satan Junior." According to this book, which I shall
speak of as Mr. Kellar's, his first visit to the "far East" was in the
year 1877. About July 4th, 1876, Mr. Kellar "decided to visit
Australia and the far East." In 1876 and 1877 we find him in
Australia, which he left in 1877. Singapore, Johore, Java, Shanghai,
Hong Kong, Rangoon, and various other places were visited, and Mr.
Kellar finally opened in Calcutta on December 30th, 1877. The
places visited in order are given,—Calcutta, Allahabad, Lucknow,
Delhi. Mr. Kellar is also said to have visited Agra, Cawnpore,
Jeypore, and Benares, and " all the prominent towns of the Punjab."
He opened in Bombay on February 14th, 1878, and from Bombay
moved northward to Bagdad. He did not return to India till 1882.
How happens it, then, that Mr. Kellar describes an experience
which he had at Secunderabad in 1878,—when there is no mention
whatever in his book of any visit to Secunderabad? And Secun
derabad was a very long way off from any of the places mentioned as
having been visited by Mr. Kellar, and in a totally different direction.
A visit to Secunderabad would have required several days at least.
Not only so, but Mr. Kellar describes a scene which he says he
Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. 355
witnessed "at the palace of Sir Salar Jung, the Nizam of Secun
derabad." Now, there is no Nizam of Secunderabad. There is a-
Nizam of Hyderabad, and Nawab Sir Salar Jung Bahadur was
Minister of Hyderabad. Secunderabad is a city in the Nizam's
dominions. In his book Mr. Kellar is described as having appeared
in Calcutta before the Nizam of Secunderaliad and also Sir Salar Jung,
Prime Minister of the Nizam. It is, of course, not surprising that
Mr. Kellar should make a mistake about the titles of these
" notables," unless he actually visited the Nizam's dominions. The
surprising thing is, if he visited Secunderabad in 1878, as he now
states, and witnessed what he regarded as a remarkable incident
there, that no mention of such a visit should appear in his book.
And such a visit would have been a complete deviation from the line
of his route as described in his book. He has possibly confused
Secunderabad and Hyderabad with Allahabad.
It appears clearly from Mr. Kellar's book that two or three years
of scattered, hasty travel would cover his experience of " India and the
far East." Yet he begins his article by the following passage :—
" Fifteen years spent in India and the far East have convinced me that the
high caste fakirs, or magicians, of Northern India have probably discovered
natural laws of which we in the West are ignorant."
At the very outset, then, Mr. Kellar claims a familiarity with
" India and the far East " which he does not possess. But this is by
no means the most serious fault that we have to find with Mr. Kellar's
statements. It appears, from the account in his book, that it was not
till 1877 that he visited India, and that during the winter of 1875-6
he was journeying backwards and forwards between England and
America, and giving performances in the latter country. How, then,
at this time could he be also in Calcutta? He says in his recent
article :—
" On the occasion of the visit of the Prince of Wales to Calcutta during
the winter of 1875-6, I saw a marvel of levitation performed in the presenco
of the Prince and of some fifty thousand spectators."
The Prince of Wales was in Calcutta during the winter of 1875-6,
but if Mr. Kellar declares that he also was there at that time, as he
does—well, we have a conjurer's testimony to a very remarkable
performance, more marvellous than the feat of levitation which he
describes himself as having witnessed at the Maidam. The reader may,
however, be willing to pass over discrepancies of this kind, and to
assume that although Mr. Kellar's memory of dates and persons is not
very good, he may nevertheless have witnessed some such scene as he
describes, in a different year, and when the Prince of Wales was not
present. Let us, therefore, take another incident from the recent
article for the purpose of seeing how much confidence we can place in
356 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
Mr. Kellar's descriptions of a conjuring trick which he fails to
understand. He says : —
' ' I saw a performance by the whirling fakirs in the Chandee Choke, the
Cheapside of Calcutta. There were a score of Englishmen in the party,
which had gathered by arrangement, and we were escorted to a long empty
room in the Chandee Choke, which was apparently an unoccupied store-room.
There was no back door, and the only two windows in the room—which
were at either side of the entrance—looked on the street. There was no one
present when we arrived, and we examined the room carefully, testing the
walls, ceiling and floor for secret doors, traps, wires, &c., and came to the
conclusion that in those respects, at least, all was as it should be. We then
drew a chalk line one-third of the way down the room from the door, beyond
which we were to remain as audience, while four fakirs, who appeared at
that moment from the street, were to give us an exhibition of their magical
powers in the other two-thirds of the apartment, which was destitute of
either doors or windows, and, so far as we could inform ourselves, absolutely
without means of communication with the adjoining buildings or with the
open air.
" The old fakir took a chafing-dish and set it about ten feet from the chalk
line on his side, casting upon its glowing coals a white powder, which gave
out a strong scent of tuberoses, very agreeable to the senses. A fine white
vapour aroso from the burning powder and filled the corners of the ceiling,
draping the dull panelling with a flying wreath or two, but still permitting
a clear view of the end wall. At a point some six or eight feet beyond the
chafing-dish the old man and his three assistants began dancing slowly ; they
gave utterance to no sound, but whirled faster and faster, with a rhythmic
motion, their robes flowing out on either side and blending the four forms
into a composite group, of which the tall master was the central figure.
Suddenly, to our great astonishment, we became aware that there was only
one form visible, that of the old man. The swift whirl of his dance was
gradually relaxed, and in a minute or two he became motionless, salaamed,
advanced in front of the chafing-dish, bowed again, and pointed with a
dignified gesture to the rear of the apartment. We all looked eagerly in the
direction of his gesture ; there was not a living creature, nor indeed an
object of any kind, visible beyond the line except himself. With another
salaam he returned to his original position in the rear of the chafing-dish,
and began with reverse motion the dance of a moment before. Holding out
his arms on each side of him as if the better to balance himself, he now sang,
in a low, monotonous tone, a chant, the words of which impressed themselves
upon my memory and sounded like this :—
Al YA OR EKTO DO !
" In some inexplicable way the monotonous drone of this chant, which
fell not unmusically from his lips, seemed to join with the vapours which
curled about the scene to bewitch our fancies, or at all events to produce a
condition of dreamy delight. If this was hypnotism, so be it ; but
whether or not the existence of this charmed condition can be ascribed to
hypnotic influences, I never felt my senses more completely at my command ;
and with my eyes fixed intently upon his whirling figure I became aware
that he seemed to be throwing off from himself portions of his body ; one
Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. 357
arm here, the other there, a leg here, and so on, the illusion being perfect,
if illusion it was, and the end of the room where he had begun to dance
alone becoming gradually filled with figures like his own, only younger, each
whirling with the same chant in the same direction. Suddenly the dance
again died away, the chant was hushed, and when we looked again there was
but one performer visible, the old fakir, who advanced in front of the
chafing-dish and asked for backsheesh. He received it liberally, and we again
made an examination of the room, but could discover no explanation of the
disappearance of his companions."
Now, it certainly looks as if Mr. Kellar was trying here to describe
an incident which appears as follows in an article by him in Leisure
Sours for March, 1892, where he writes :—
"At Calcutta I attended a performance of three fakirs, which was given in
a large room. At one end, where they had drawn a dividing line, none of
the spectators were allowed. The three fakirs began dancing and whisking
around like dervishes, with a dizzy rapidity. This continued for a few
moments, when I suddenly discovered that there were four dancers instead
of three. Then the number increased still further until there were a dozen
men dancing, twisting and gyrating. Then, seemingly, the dancers came
nearer together, until they appeared to be all massed in one big dancer, who
finally ceased whirling and stood there alone. As I have just explained, the
spectators were not allowed to examine that end of the room where the
fakirs performed their feat, so I could not make any personal inspection of
the walls. It did not seem possible, however, from where I sat, that there
could have been any reflection from the sides or rear ; but I was evidently
deceived by some clever optical delusion."
A comparison of these accounts will probably be interesting to the
reader, whether he concludes that they refer to the same incident or
not, and there is other evidence to show that the feats witnessed by Mr.
Kellar in India have grown largely in his imagination with the lapse
of time. Compare the statements in his recent article with the
following passage from Leisure Hours, March, 1892 :—
" Some of the purely Oriental wonders were unique and unaccountable—
notably the levitation of a human being in mid-air without any visible means
of support, and apparently defying the laws of gravity ; the cutting of a
man to pieces and building him up again as good as ever ; the changing of a
rupee held in the hand of a spectator into a writhing, lively cobra ; wonder
ful feats of hypnotism or simulation of death ; the making of birds and
animals of common clay and subsequently imbuing them with life, so that they
appeared real ; the production of the deadlycobra from most impossible places;
the whirling dervishes, changing from one to many and then back to one
again ; causing iron to float in water, and a ball to spin around the head without
any apparent attachment to the body. These and many other wonders belong
exclusively to the crafty Hindu, and have never yet been explained by
Europeans. They are simply tricks, but very clever and ingenious, and the
secrets are carefully guarded."
And compare this again with his statements in 1886. On turning
358 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
to the book from which I have already quoted, I find a chapter (XVI.}
entitled " The Jugglers of India." The first paragraph reads as
follows :—
" Naturally, on his first visit to India, Kellar was curious to see something
of the famous jugglers, of whom travellers have told such marvellous tales.
He went out of his way to meet any famous performer who could only be
reached in that manner, and the result was that between the time he landed
at Calcutta and the time he embarked at Bombay, ho had witnessed about
everything of note in the juggling line that the country afforded. The
opinion he formed, after seeing all they could show him, was that, apart
from their skill as snake charmers, in the basket trick, and one or two other
illusions, the ability of the entire fraternity of Indian jugglers is beneath
contempt."
He then describes the mango trick, a snake charming trick, the
basket trick, the bowl of water trick, the coloured sugars trick, and the
dry sand trick. The last sentence of the chapter reads :—" The tricks
already described are the only ones Kellar saw in India which are
worth mentioning."
How comes it, then, that if this was Mr. Kellar's opinion in 1886,
he should give descriptions in his recent article of incidents which he
states he witnessed in India prior to that time, incidents which he now
says "baffled my deepest scrutiny, and remained the inexplicable
subject of my lasting wonder and admiration " 1 Surely Mr. Kellar
is romancing ! Against the Kellar of 1893 we may quote the Kellar
of 1886 :—
"Many of the wonders attributed to Oriental jugglers have never existed
anywhere outside of the imaginations of those who tell them. The writers
who declare that they have seen such impossible feats performed as
throwing a ball of twine in the air to form a sort of Jack-and-the-bean-stalk,
up which the juggler climbed out of sight, pulling the string after him, and
that the pistol shot of a companion brought the aerial climber to the
earth in fragments, which, when brought together, became a living,
uninjured man again, must have had their brains steeped in hasheesh."
Let us now turn to what Mr. Kellar has to say about the notorious
medium Eglinton :—
"My first experience with the phenomenon of levitation was in January,
1882, during the course of an engagement I was filling at the Chowringhee
Theatre Royal in Calcutta. Mr. Eglinton, a professed spiritual medium,
was giving se'ances in Calcutta at the time, and as I opeidy avowed my
ability to expose the frauds of all so-called mediums, I was taken to one of
them, which occurred in a brilliantly lighted apartment. I will not describe
it otherwise than to say that it so puzzled and interested me that I gladly
accepted the invitation an evening or two afterwards to be present with
several others at a dark seance given by Mr. Eglinton.
" It was now that the feat of levitation was apparently performed, in the
presenco of these spectators. The only furniture in the room was a plain
Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. 359
teakwood table, a zither, some chairs, two musical boxes, and a scroll of
paper. A circle having been formed, I was placed on Mr. Eglinton's left
and seized his left hand firmly in my right. Immediately on the extinction
of the lights, I felt him rise slowly in the air, and as I retained firm hold of
his hand, I was pulled to my feet, and subsequently compelled to jump on a
chair and then on the table, in order to retain my hold of him. That his
body did ascend into the air on that occasion with an apparently utter
disregard of the law of gravity, there can be no doubt. The musical boxes,
playing briskly, then appeared to float through the air above our heads,
small green lights appearing and disappearing here and there without
visible cause, and the zither playing near the ceiling or immediately over
our heads. . . . What most excited my wonder was the fact, for I may
speak of it as a fact without qualification, that when Mr. Eglinton rose from
my side, and, by the hold he had on my right hand, pulled me up after him,
my own body appeared for the time being to have been rendered non-
susceptible to gravity."
How, if Mr. Kellar weighed nothing, he should have been compelled
to jump, it is somewhat difficult to understand. A more detailed
account of these incidents is given in Mr. Kellar's book, pp. 167-173,
where we find :—
"He sought for means to reproduce, by natural means, all that Mr.
Eglinton had done, except the levitation. He succeeded after much study
and many experiments. Of course he makes no claim to performing the
tricks by the same means that Mr. Eglinton used. It may be that he uses
the same method, and it may be otherwise. He simply knows that he pro
duces the same results. . . . Regarding the levitation feat, my master
has never been able to reach a satisfactory explanation. What puzzles him
most is how he could have been pulled up by Mr. Eglinton without feeling
his own weight on his hand and arm. He seemed to lose gravity. Whether
the occurrence was actual, and not a mere mental illusion, he is not prepared
to say. It assuredly was a wonderful and unaccountable performance."
The reader will notice that the alleged levitation occurred in the
darkness, and will probably infer that Eglinton used the same means
of rising as Mr. Kellar afterwards did, viz., the chair and the table.
This was my own conclusion concerning the alleged levitation of
Eglinton at a dark seance given in a room of a friend of my own at St.
John's College, Cambridge, England, in the year 1880. Friends of
mine were holding Eglinton at the time, and I was present at the
sitting myself. It was unanimously agreed, I believe, by all who were
present, that there was no evidence whatever to show that Eglinton
rose by other than ordinary means. Eglinton, moreover, is a detected
trickster. At one of his so-called " materialisation " seances, pieces of
muslin and beard were cut from the supposed " spirit," and these
fitted the muslin and beard afterwards found in Eglinton's port
manteau. He also co-operated with Madame Blavatsky in the
production of a spurious marvel, was detected in fraud at Munich, and
360 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
was discovered surreptitiously writing at one of his so-called " inde
pendent slate-writing" seances. (Proceedings of the Societyfor Psychical
Research, Vol. IV., pp. 350-2.) Mr. Kellar's first experience with
Eglinton in 1882 was in "independent slate-writing," and he was
completely deceived. He afterwards, apparently, changed his opinion,
and concluded that he could account for what happened " by natural
means." As a student of accounts of this class of alleged phenomena,
it is obvious to me, from Mr. Kellar's description given in his book,
that he was ignorant at the time of his first experience with Eglinton
of some of the common methods of producing alleged " independent
slate-writing " by trickery. Later on Mr. Kellar publicly professed to
be able to " duplicate any performance given by mediums, of whatever
nature, after he has seen it done three times." This suggests that Mr.
Kellar's real opinion about Eglinton's performances is that they were
all tricks, and I am not aware that Mr. Kellar has withdrawn the
challenge thus given to mediums.
I have said enough to show that Mr. Kellar's article is written
from the point of view of the romantic story-teller who allows his
imagination full play, rather than from that of a careful recorder of
the circumstances of a trick-performance, and some of his fundamental
statements as to times, places, and his own conclusions are flatly
negatived by the statements in his previously published book.
We may now ask how much importance is to be attributed to a
conjurer's testimony concerning marvellous performances of the kind
under review. It is, of course, not to be doubted that a conjurer, or a
person familiar with the devices of conjurers, is more likely to discover
the modus operandi of a trick than the ordinary uninitiated
observer,—and even if he fails to discover the trick, he may by virtue
of his knowledge of various trick-devices, write a better record than
another person who is not superior to him in other respects. It does
not, however, follow from this that his description of a trick which
has baffled him will be specially reliable. The conjurer may not be a
particularly keen observer of circumstances not already familiar to
him as belonging to the conjuring class ; his memory may be untrained
in the reproduction of circumstances which he did observe at the time;
and he may be entirely unaccustomed to the making of precise records
of such a series of events. A conjurer does not seem to have any
special capacity qud conjurer in these directions. And a tendency
which besets the ordinary observer is likely to operate still more
powerfully with an expert in prestidigitation. The very fact of his
having been deceived will in many cases contribute towards the
marvellousness of his record, especially if he is over-confident of his
ability to detect trickery. For a similar reason, he is more apt to
suppose that the phenomenon, if unintelligible to him, was inexplic
Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. 361
able " by natural means." Mr. Kellar seems to have taken this
confiding attitude when he witnessed Eglinton's performances in
1882. I was much struck myself when in India by the complete
mystification produced in some Hindu jugglers by several tricks of a
European gentleman who was an amateur conjurer. At the time I
was not familiar with conjuring methods, but reasoned out the modus
operandi in these particular tricks which caused the amazement of the
native experts because they were unfamiliar with that class of perform
ance. Not only do I see no sufficient ground for supposing a priori that
a conjurer will make specially accurate records of a trick which he has
failed to understand, but a comparison of several records made by
conjurers of " independent slate-writing performances " with those of
other intelligent non-conjuring observers, all of the witnesses being
alike ignorant of the modus operandi, affords a posteriori proof that
conjurers are not specially competent recorders. Mr. Kellar's descrip
tion of his slate-writing sitting with Eglinton is an instance. It.
may be laid down as a rule almost without exception that the account
of a trick by a person ignorant of the method used in its production
will involve a misdescription of its fundamental conditions. And this
misdescription is frequently so marked that no clue is afforded to
the student for the actual explanation. These statements apply not to
the ordinary observer alone, but also to the baffled conjurer, whose
testimony is vitiated by the same liability to mal-observation and lapse
of memory so fruitful in the reports by ordinary observers of "occult"
phenomena.
If, then, a conjurer says that he was unable to discover any trick in
an alleged "occult" phenomenon, his statement to that effect is entitled
to more value than that of a person unfamiliar with conjuring. There
is something about that phenomenon which is probably exceptional.
It may, however, be a form of trick which is simply unlike any of those
already familiar to the conjurer. Eglinton's slate-writing trick, for
example, deceived Mr. Kellar in 1882. It would not, however, I believe,
deceive him now. But supposing that the conjurer fails to discover a
trick, what is the value of his opinion that no trick was possible? This
depends entirely upon the individual man, and not upon his conjuring
knowledge. We must consider his general capacity, his ability to
observe and recollect the detailed circumstances of the performance,
his knowledge of the sciences, mental as well as physical, his tendency
to believe in supernormal phenomena without sufficient evidence.* If
he is too confident in his own powers, he will be likely to assume that
* I have asked many-persons for an explanation of one of Mr. Davey's tricks—
writing between slates screwed and tied together—and only one person, Professor S.
P. Langley, solved the problem. Among those who failed were two conjurers, one of
them being Mr. Kellar.
362 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
the performance was not a trick merely because he was unable to dis
cover the trick. Now, with all due respect to Mr. Kellar's power as a
conjurer—and he stands high in some branches of his profession—I do
not regard his opinion as entitled to much weight beyond those special
matters with which he is familiar. And I think that my statement
is sufficiently vindicated by Mr. Kellar's assurance in the first place
that he could easily expose the frauds of " spiritistic mediums," and
then his apparent readiness to jump at the conclusion that Eglinton's
performance at the slate-writing seance "was in no way the result
of trickery or sleight-of-hand." When we come to consider the narra
tions which Mr. Kellar now gives of his experiences, putting aside the
discrepancies of dates, &c., which I have pointed out—and which
seem to indicate that Mr. Kellar is entitled to less confidence as a
narrator than is the ordinary historian—it is plain that he is com
pletely unaware of the ravages which time makes in one's recollections.
What should we think of an astronomer who proposed, several years
after the evont, to draw from memory accurate charts of the sun's
flames during a total eclipse? What would Mr. Kellar think of a
witness to his own performances who, being, let us say, unable to
divine Mr. Kellar's methods, should attempt years afterwards to narrate
what he witnessed 1 Some of Mr. Kellar's operations, which were
perhaps actually seen at the time, but their significance not understood,
have been transposed in their order or have dropped out of memory.
Possibly other events have taken their place in recollection—and Mr.
Kellar would find it absolutely impossible to reproduce his performance
under the conditions as these are erroneously remembered by the
witness. Most persons appear to think that their memory of a series
of events, if clear and vivid, is necessarily trustworthy. They regard
their recollection as a photograph, the lines of which may indeed
become blurred, and fade out, but do not change their distinctive posi
tions. This view of recollection, as regards the events which we are
,considering, is totally erroneous. To continue our analogy, the
memory photograph may change in many of its really most important
elements, and yet be a clear and vivid photograph. The memory-
faculty is not adequate for the reproduction of the details of the events
in question as they occurred. And I have no doubt that Mr. Kellar's
descriptions of the incidents which he was unable to explain are just as
faulty as the descriptions of his own performances would be if given
years afterwards by a witness who was unfamiliar with Mr. Kellar's
methods.
I may add here a few words about my own conclusions concerning
Hindu jugglers, without claiming even so much experience in India
as was actually enjoyed by Mr. Kellar. All that I saw was conjuring,
and every detail, I believe, became known to me, either by purchase or
Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. 363
by discovery. I did not, however, see some of the performances which
Mr. Kellar describes. Possibly I saw only what he designates as the
low caste fakirs, and not any of the high caste fakirs. I venture to
suggest about these that the high caste fakirs, if such exist, may bear
somewhat of the same relation to the low caste fakirs as the high
class professionals here, such as Kellar and Hermann, bear to the
performers in dime museums. In the next place I would remind the
reader that the Hindu race has differentiated very widely in many
respects from the Western branches of the Aryan stock,—and it
would not be an extreme hypothesis to suppose that certain modes of
deception have been developed by them on lines which are unfamiliar
to the Western races. This differentiation is shown in other directions,
from philosophical speculations down to trick puzzles in cane and wire.
They may, indeed, have discovered some " laws " of which we in the
West are at present ignorant. I certainly do not affirm that this
is impossible, though in the course of my investigations in India
concerning the marvellous phenomena alleged to have occurred in con
nection with Madame Blavatsky and the Theosophical Society I
could find no evidence for the existence of anything but ordinary
trickery. The performances of all the " jugglers " whom I saw were
unquestionably conjuring tricks, and I sought in vain for an eye
witness, European or native, of the famous rope exploit of which we
have heard so much in travellers' tales. About three years ago a story
spread that this supposed trick was explicable by "hypnotism." It
was alleged that certain travellers had proved this by means of a
kodak. The kodak showed no such scenes,—rope taut as though fixed
to an inevitable point in the air, disappearing boy, man following with
a knife,—bloody limbs and trunk and head falling,—reintegration of
the boy's organism, &c. This story turned out, by the confession of its
author, to be a "yarn," as was obvious to myself when it first
appeared,—not only from the indications of the drawings given with
the story, but because the famous " mango " or tree-growing trick was
explained in the same way—viz., by hypnotic suggestion ; whereas I
was well aware that the latter was a simple conjuring trick, every
detail of which was known to me. Even Colonel Olcott, faithful
follower of Madame Blavatsky, and recipient of so many favours from
the (imaginary) adepts or Mahatmas, told me, after several years'
residence in India, that he had never witnessed the rope-climbing
performance. It was he who made the statement to me, on what
authority I do not remember, that the explanation was " hypnotic
suggestion," and he related in connection with his opinion the story of
a native who was looking on at this performance from a little distance
off, up a tree, whence he had a good view but could not distinguish
the conjurer's words. He saw the conjurer do nothing more mysterious
2 B
364 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
than to cut up a large vegetable of the pumpkin order, and fit the
fragments together, whereas the spectators close at hand averred that
they had witnessed the various stages of the " rope-climbing " trick.
So runs the story. Now, it is, of course, perfectly easy to induce in a,
hypnotic subject the belief that he is witnessing or has witnessed a.
performance like that under consideration, but I do not know of any
experiments that in the least degree indicate the feasibility of
hypnotising a whole group of persons without their knowledge. It is,
nevertheless, possible that the original story of this famous trick,
as well as several later versions, may have been due to hypnotic-
suggestion. Colonel Henry Yule, in his notes to The book of Ser
Marco Polo, has given various references to the accounts of this
performance,—by Ibn Batuta, the Moor, in the fourteenth century ;
by Edward Melton, an Anglo-Dutch traveller, in the seventeenth cen
tury ; by Francis Valentyn (whose account Colonel Yule apparently
thinks is borrowed from Melton's) ; and by the Emperor Jahangueir,
in the seventeenth century.
After describing the trick, Ibn Batuta writes :—
" All this astonished me beyond measure, and I had an attack of
palpitation like that which overcame me once before in the presence of the
Sultan of India, when he showed me something of the same kind. They gave-
me a cordial, however, which cured the attack. The Kazi Afkharuddin was
next to me, and quoth he, ' Wallah ! 'tis my opinion there has been-
neither going up nor coming down, neither marring nor mending ; 'tis all
hocus pocus ! ' "
On referring to this previous incident mentioned by Ibn Batuta, I
find that it was a case of apparent levitation, where one of several
jugglers rose in the air and took a sitting posture in the air above the
head of the witness. Ibn Batuta states that he was alarmed, and
finally lost consciousness, that he was restored to consciousness, and
that he still saw the juggler in the air above him, and that the juggler
shortly after resumed his normal position. These two accounts by
Ibn Batuta certainly seem to indicate that his experience was due to
hypnotic suggestion. Experts in practical hypnotism are well aware
that there is a light stage of the hypnotic trance where the subject is
susceptible to illusive suggestions, but from which he frequently lapses
into a deeper stage, that of coma, if not kept active, so to speak, by
continual inquiries or suggestions. It is not at all unlikely that Ibn
Batuta's loss of consciousness in his first experience was an instance of
this tendency to lapse into the deeper state of hypnotic trance. The
remark of the Kazi Afkharuddin which he quotes in the account of his
later experience appears to indicate that this person, at all events, was
not a good hypnotic subject. His official position perhaps warranted
him in speaking out an opinion of the performance which might indeed
Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. 365
have been shared by many others who dared not venture to criticise
the conjurer. My readers will doubtless remember the old fairy tale of
the Emperor of China's magic robes and the little child. Afkharuddin
apparently witnessed nothing at all extraordinary, and asserted this in
such plain and impressive language that Ibn Batuta recorded the fact.
I do not claim an extensive knowledge of accounts of this rope per
formance, but I have not yet met with any authentic records by joint
witnesses of its occurrence, and possibly the tale of it depends upon a
few accounts by isolated travellers who were more or less susceptible
to hypnotic suggestion, and who were not all so fortunate as Ibn
Batuta in finding that not every person present was affected as he
was.
The Emperor Jahangueir describes a series of remarkable tricks,
performed by seven Bengal jugglers. He enumerates twenty-eight in
detail. The reader will rightly infer that his account is full of mis
descriptions of various kinds. These will probably be extraordinary
in the case before us, since the Emperor Jahangueir must be regarded
as liable not only to the ordinary forms of mal-observation and lapse
of memory, but also to further deficiencies due to the age in which he
lived,—which may be briefly characterised as comparatively ignorant
and superstitious. For explanation of some of the incidents mis-
described there are obvious clues for persons familiar with modern
conjuring operations. Other incidents may be explained if we suppose
that acquisitions which we regard as recently achieved were known to
the Bengalese operators,—but in all these cases we must amend the
accounts of Jahangueir by supplying additional details. Other
incidents remain apparently inexplicable, as appears to me (perhaps
not to others who may know more than myself about these matters), if
we regard Jahangueir's descriptions as correct. And this is just the
very point that I wish to emphasise more than any other. His
descriptions must be regarded as largely erroneous. Take the descrip
tions by uninitiated witnesses—I have heard them frequently—of
Mr. Kellar's flower-growing trick, or the wine and water trick, or the
Psycho. They are absurdly inaccurate from the nature of the case,
inasmuch as the witnesses failed to see through the tricks. In the
same category I place Mr. Kellar's descriptions of the Hindu tricks
(those which he actually saw) which he failed to understand.
I conclude, therefore, that, in spite of the strong assertions of a
distinguished conjurer, we have before us no real evidence to the
manifestation by Indian jugglers or fakirs of any marvels beyond the
power of trickery to produce. Such a conclusion, if correct, is of
importance to our general inquiries, which can only make progress by
a constant sifting of all kinds of testimony, a constant delimitation
of false from true in accordance with canons which ought to be made
2 b 2
3G6 Mr. Richard Hodgson.
more exact and effective by every fresh application. And I add one
word of moral,—a caution, namely, against accepting too readily the
uncorroborated dicta of eminent men, whatever their source, and
whatever their tendency. The conjurer's mere assertion that certain
marvels are not explicable by trickery is worth just as much as the
savant's mere assertion that they must be so explicable,—just as much,
and no more.
There is no royal road to sound opinions on such matters generally ;
there is nothing for it save to examine each narrative on its own merits,
and with close individual care ; the mind meanwhile prepared for either
fate,—whether to prick some bubble of pretension into empty falsity,
or to discover beneath some unpromising envelope a germ of inex
plicable truth.
Supplement ] 3G7
Review.
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEW.
1. The Secret Commonwealth of Elves, Fauns, and Fairies. A Study in Folk-
Lore and Psychical Research. The Text by Robert Kirk, M.A.,
Minister of Aberfoyle, A.D. 1091. The Comment by Andrew Lang,
M.A., A.D. 1893. London : David Nittt.
2. Comparative Psychical Research. By Andrew Lang. Contemporary Review,
September, 1893.
Mr. Robert Kirk was "a man of good family, a student, and, as his
book shows, an innocent and learned person." He wrote of Elves and
Fairies, with full belief in their existence, and minute knowledge as to their
habits and qualities, mental and bodily, if we may use the word body of these
" vehicles so spungious, thin, and defecat." His style occasionally reminds
us of Sir Thomas Browne. Sir Thomas himself might have said of the
shooters of the fairy arrow-heads : "They are not as infallible Benjamites,
hitting at a Hair's breadth ; nor are they wholly unvanquishable, at least in
Appearance." The book is of curious interest, and we are grateful to Mr.
Lang and Mr. Nutt for making a rare work accessible in so pleasant a form
as that which clothes the Bibliotheqiie de Carabas.
Mr. Lang prefixes a long and interesting introduction, in which he dis
cusses, with the wealth of illustration which he has at his command, the
psychical problems suggested by the book. This introduction, and also his
article on Comparative Psychical Research, have a direct bearing on the work
of the Society for Psychical Research. Both will be read with great interest
by members of the Society ; and some discussion of the moral which they
convey may not be out of place in the Society's Proceedings.
The main theme of the two essays is that the historical branch of
Psychical Research has been neglected. Mr. Lang points out that in legends
and popular beliefs, in stories of witches, fairies, hauntings, magic, and so
forth, among peoples of all degrees of civilisation, there is a great deal
which finds a close parallel in the records of spiritualism, hypnotism,
telepathy, and other modern forms of supernormal phenomena. He argues
that, the results being similar, the causes are probably similar also. There
may be a " residuum of fact" behind the phenomena ; or there may be only
certain world-wide tendencies inherent in the human mind, which make men
of very different races and periods believe and invent similar fictions—just na
spiders have an instinct which makes them spin similar webs. In any case,
he urges, the comparative method applied to Psychical Research should help
3G8 {Supplement.
Revieiv.
to discover the residuum of fact if there be one ; and, whether fact be
discovered or not, it should serve to elucidate a most remarkable province of
psychology.
This branch of inquiry has not been so completely neglected as Mr.
Lang supposes. "As far as the writer has read the Society's Proceedings,"
he writes, "it 'takes no keep,' as Malory says, of these affairs in their
historical aspect " ;—and again—"The Psychical Society, as far as the writer
is aware, has not examined officially tho old accounts of the phenomena
which it investigates at present." He may be excused, perhaps, for not being
familiar with the 1,300 pages of Phantasms of the Living ; but he will find at
p. 172 of the first volume of that work a most interesting and masterly ex
amination, by Edmund Gurney, of the evidence for Witchcraft and Magic.
This examination is founded, the author says, "on a careful search through
about two hundred and sixty books on the subject (including, I think, most
of the principal ones of tho Kith, 17th, and 18th centuries), and a large number
of contemporary records of trials." The conclusion at which Gurney arrives
is that "there is a total absence of respectable evidence, and an almost
total absence of any first-hand evidence at all, for those phencmcna of
magic and witchcraft which cannot bo accounted for as the results of
diseased imagination, hysteria, hypnotism, and occasionally, perhaps, of
telepathy."
The results of this careful and laborious study do not encourage further
excursions in the same country. There is ample material for the chapter in
the "History of Human Error" which Mr. Lang desires. It will be a
voluminous chapter ; while the "residuum of fact" may probably be con
tained in very few paragraphs. It is with this " residuum of fact " that
Psychical Research is mainly concerned, at any rate for the present ; and
it is clear that for the establishment of facts we must rely almost entirely on
contemporary and recent evidence.
The grounds for this conclusion are two-fold. In the first place, a careful
scrutiny and sifting of evidence, such as is now thought necessary, was almost
unknown among the older recorders. This is plain to anyone who reads Mr.
Gurney's note on Witchcraft, and might be illustrated abundantly from the
Secret Commonwealth. 1 This destroys the value of a large part of the evidence.
In the second place, even in the case of such evidence as primd facie will
satisfy the high standard of modern requirements, there Ls no means of
testing it in the manner which is familiar to readers of the Journal and
Proceedings of the Society. In accounts of occurrences one, two, three, or
more centuries ago it is impossible to verify dates, to establish coincidences,
to examine witnesses, and to obtain corroborative evidence. Experience of
contemporary cases shows that,'_without such examination and corroboration,
reports of extraordinary occurrences, even when at first hand, are of im
perfect evidential value.
I am inclined to think, too, that Mr. Lang has laid rather too much stress
1 For example, Kirk states, without any expression of doubt, and without think
ing it necessary to state his evidence, that " Walter Grahame, someTime living in the
Paroch wherein now I am shot a Hair with his eyes, having praised
its swiftness (such was the Infection of ane evill Eye)." He adds that this was " un-
usuall."
.Supplement.l 3G9
Review.
upon the coincidences between the old and the new, the civilised and the
uncivilised. It would be a serious task to catalogue the beliefs which do
not find a parallel in modern records ; but they far outnumber those that
do. To give one example only, second sight may have its parallel in telepathy,
but the "odd solemnity" by which the "Priviledges of the whole Mistery"
were acquired is not practised or believed to be efficacious by the moderns.
" He must run a Tedder of Hair (which bound a Corps to the Bior) in a Helix
about his Midle from End to End ; then bow his Head downwards, as did
Elijah, 1. Kings 18. 42, and look back through his Legs untill he sie a Funerall
.advance till the People cross two Marches." The attitude is more uncomfort
able than that in which Peter Ibbetson " dreamed true "; and, moreover, not
without risk—for "if the Wind change Points while the Hair Tedder is ty'd
about him, he is in Peril of his Lyfe." Darwin used to say that no experi
ment is too absurd to try, but we may doubt whether Mr. Lang would
clesire his historical inquirer to make practical investigations into this and
other similar neglected branches of art.
The whole mass of folk-lore, myth, magic, and all the beliefs of an uncritical
age are compounded of many elements. Mr. Lang's conclusion as to the Fairy
belief is that it is "a complex matter, from which tradition, with its memory
of earth-dwellers, is not wholly absent, while more is due to a survival of the
pre-Christian Hades, and to the belief in local spirits— the Vuis of
Melanesia, the Nereids of ancient and modern Greece, the Lares of Rome,
the fateful Mcene and Hathors—old imaginings of a world not yet 'dis
peopled of its dreams.' " Thus, even in a belief which appears to be so far
removed from reality as this, Mr. Lang admits that there may be some element
of fact. A similar analysis may be applied to other kinds of belief. The
primary object of Psychical Research is to separate the element of fact, and
for this purpose, as I have said, only contemporary evidence can serve.
It is this possible element of fact which Mr. Lang appears to neglect
when he sums up his results by saying—" our only conclusion is that the
psychological conditions which begat the ancient narratives px-oduce the new
legends." Why, then, if the psychological conditions are unchanged, are
there many old legends which have no analogues among the new ? Mr. Lang
gives no answer to the question. In fact, he does not ask it, because he only
collects likenesses and not differences, and therefore the differences and
omissions do not strike him. The answer, I think, is that the legends are
begotten not by psychological conditions alone, but by psychological con
ditions together with a certain substratum of fact. The psychological con
ditions have changed, as civilisation has advanced, in the direction of moro
stringent criticism of evidence. The result is that the legends with the
least substratum of fact have died out, while those which have a greater
substratum of fact still survive in some form. This consideration, if valid,
may encourage an examination of modem beliefs, with the object of finding
the underlying facts ; but, for the reasons given above, such an examination
must be carried on by scrutiny of contemporary evidence, and by experi
ments. Comparison with the old stories will give very little result.
H. Babisgton Smith.
370 Edmund Gurney Library.
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
SUPPLEMENTARY CATALOGUE, 1893.
Additions since the list in "Proceedings," Vol. VIII.
ENGLISH.
Experimental Psychology, International Congress of, Second
Session, London, 1892 London, 1893
Hudson (Thomson Jay), The Law of Psychic Phenomena. A
Working Hypothesis for the Systematic Study of Hypnotism,
Spiritism, Mental Therapeutics, &c London, 1893
(Another copy).
(Another copy).
James (Professor William), Text Book of Psychology London, 1892
Tuckey, (C. Lloyd, M.D.), Tho Value of Hypnotism in Chronic
Alcoholism London, 1892"
Ribot (Th.), The Diseases of Personality. Authorised Translation,
Chicago, 1891
Vincent (R. Harry), The Elements of Hypnotism : Its Pheno
mena, Its Dangers and Value London, 1893
FRENCH.
Binet (Alfred), Les Alterations de la Personnalite' Paris, 1892
Janet (Prof. Pierre), Etat Mentale des Hysteriques, les Stig-
mates Mentaux. Preface de M. le Prof. Charcot Paris, 1893
L'Automatisme Psychologique Paris, 1889
Nizet (Henri), L'Hypnotisme. Etude Critique Brussels, N.D.
GERMAN.
Grossmann (Dr. J.), Die Erfolge der Suggestionstherapie
(Hypnose) bei Influenza Berlin, 1892
Heckeu (Dr. Ewald), Hypnose und Suggestion im Dienste der
Heilkunde Wiesbaden, 1893
Kiesewetter (Carl), Franz Anton Mesmer's Lcben und Lehre.
Ncbst einer Vorgeshichte des Mesmerismus, Hypnotisnius,
und Somnambulismus Leipzig, 1893
Reichel (Willy), Der Magnetismus und seine Phiinomene, Berlin, 1892
Rells (Edmund W.), Psychologischo Skizzen Leipzig, 1893
Ringier (Dr. Georg), Erfolge des therapeutischen Hypnotisnius
in der Landpraxis. Mit einem Vorworte von Prof. Dr. Aug.
Forel Miinchen, 1891
Zeitschrift fur Hypnotismus, Suggestionstherapie, Sugges-
tionslehre und verwandte psychologische Forschungen.
Redigirt von Dr. J. Grossmann Berlin, 1892-3
A full Catalogue of the books in the Edmund Gurney Library was printed
at the end of Vol. V. of the Proceedings. Supplementary Catalogues ucre
printed at the end of Vols. VI., VII., and VIII. Separate copies of these
Catalogues are still on hand, and can be obtained from the Secretary.
List of Members and Associates. 371
LIST OF MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
(December, 1893.)
PRESIDENT.
The Right Hon. Arthur J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Professor W. F. Barrett, Royal College of Science, Dublin.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
John R. Hollond, Esq., 1, Upper Berkeley-street, Portman-square, W.
Richard H. Hutton, Esq., Crossdeep Lodge, Twickenham.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A.
ProfessorS. P. Langley, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
Hon. Roden Noel, St. Aubyns, West Brighton.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S. , Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripon, The Palace, Ripon,
Professor Henry Sidgwick, Cambridge.
COUNCIL
G. W. Balfour, M.P.
Thomas Barkworth.
Professor W. F. Barrett.
G. P. Bidder, Q.C.
The Earl of Crawford and
Balcarres, K.T., F.R.S.
William Crookes, F.R.S.
Lieut.-Col. J. Hartley.
Walter Leaf, Litt.D.
Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S.
ProfessorMacalister.M.D.,F.R.S.
A. T. Myers, M.D., F.R.C.P.
FOR 1893.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
Frank Podmore.
ProfessorW. Ramsay.PIi.D., F.R.S.
Lord Ravleich, F.R.S.
C. Lockhart Robertson, M.D.
Sydney C. Scott.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Smith.
H. Babington Smith.
R, Pearsall Smith.
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
J. Venn, D.Sc., F.R.S.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 1, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Frederic W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Frank Podmore, 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, London, N.W.
SECRETARY FOR FRANCE.
Leon Marillier, 7, Rue Michelet, Paris.
SECRETARY FOR THE UNITED STATES.
Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
ASSISTANT-SECRETARY.
Edward T. Bennett, 19, Buckingham-street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
372 List of Members and Associates.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
William Ceookes, F.R.S., 7, Kensington Park-gardens, London, W.
The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, M.P., Hawarden Castle, Chester.
Sir Frederick Leighton, Bart., P.R.A., 2, Holland Park-road, W.
John Ruskin, LL.D., D.C.L., Brantwood, Coniston, Lancashire.
Alfred Russel Wallace', P.R.S., Corfe View, Parkstone, Dorset.
G. F. Watts, R.A., Little Holland House, London, W.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Dr. Alfred Backman, Kalmar, Sweden.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Josephine, Boute d'Antibes, Cannes,
Alpes Maritimes, France.
Professor Bernheim, Hopital Civil, Nancy.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Max Dessoir, 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, W.
Dr. Fere, 37, Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
Professor Dr. Heinrich Hertz, The University, Bonn.
Professor Pierre Janet, Bourg-la-Reine, France.
Professor Kovalevsky, The University, Kharkof, Russia.
Dr. A. A. Liebeault, Nancy, France.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
Hans Natge, Berlin-Tempelhof, Berlin.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,U.S.A.
Dr. F. FReiheRR Goeler von Ravensburg, 4, Nettelbeckstrasse,
Berlin, W.
Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15, Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
Professor Sabatier, Montpellier, France.
Dr. FiteiheRR von Schrenck-Notzing, 29, Herzog-Wilhelmstrasse,
Munich.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
List of Members and Associates. 373
MEMBERS, HONORARY ASSOCIATES, AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Adair, Mrs., Glenavon, Cookstown, co. Tyrone.
Adams, Mrs., 4, Brookside, Cambridge.
Ainslie, Ainslie Douglas, 15, Lower Grosvenor-place, S.W.
Alcock, Richard, M.B., Burlington-crescent, Goole.
Alexander, S., M.A., The Owens College, Manchester.
Allen, Frederic, Sidmouth-road, Newcastle, Staffordshire.
Allen, Henry J., 14, Ailesbury-road, Donnybrook, co. Dublin.
Allen, Miss Mary Gray, 14, Queen's-square, W.C.
Allen, Rev. W. 0. B., M.A., 83, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Amery, W. C, 13, Corporation-street, Birmingham.
Anderson, James Arbutiinot, 46, Warwick-gardens, Kensington, W.
Anderson, Miss M. 25, Lansdowne-crescent, Kensington Park, W.
Argles, Miss Edith M., The Deanery, Peterborough.
Arkwright, Walter George, Adbury House, Newbury.
Abnott, T. Davidson, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
Ashbourne, The Lady, 23, Fitzwilliam-street, Dublin.
Ashburton, The Lady, Kent House, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Atkinson, Miss E. A., 44, Percy-gardens, Tynemouth.
Bacchus, Mrs., The Manor House, Lillington, near Leamington.
Badelier, Emile, Rangoon, British Burmah.
Baillie, Edmund J., F.L.S., Woodbine, Eaton-road, Chester.
Baines, Miss W., 40, Sussex-square, Brighton.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 47, Russell-road, West Kensington, W.
Balfour, The Right Hon. A. J., M.P., F.R.S., 4, Carlton-
gardens, S.W.
Balfour, G. W., M.P., 67, Addison-road, London, W.
Balfour, Miss, 4, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Ball, Thomas Stanley, Spring Bank, Fulwood, near Preston.
Banister, Major Fitzgerald M., R.A., Jun. Armyand NavyClub,W.
Bannerman, Colonel P. W., 8, Somers-place, Hyde Park, London, W.
Barber, Mrs. J. W., Ferndene, Abbeydale, near Sheffield.
Barkworth, Thomas, J. P., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
Barkworth, Lieut. John R., R.E., R.A. and R.E. Mess, Malta.
Barmby, Rev. James, B.D., Pittington Vicarage, Durham.
Barrett, Ashley William, M.B. (Lond.), 42, Finsbury-square, E.C.
Barrett, Rev. Canon, M.A., St. Margaret's Vicarage, Lincoln.
Barrett, Professor W. F., F.R.S.E., Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Barrington, Hon. Eric, 62, Cadogan-place, London, S.W.
374 List of Members and Associates.
Bartholomew, Colonel, Bantry Lodge, Glengariff, co. Cork.
Bates, Colonel C. E., 60, Gloucester-place, Portman-square, W.
Bates, Miss, c/o Loudon and County Bank, Maidstone.
Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring.
Bayfield, Rev. Matthew A., M.A., Christ's College, Brecon.
Bazley, Sir ThoMAsS., Bart., J. P., M.A., Hatherop Castle, Fairford,
Gloucestershire.
Beatty, Octavius, Killevey, Darleston-road, 'Wimbledon, Surrey.
Beazley, Lieutenant-Colonel George G., 74, Redcliffe-sq., S.W.
Bective, The Countess of, 42, Cadogan-square, W.
Beer, Mrs., 7, Chesterfield-gardens, London, W.
Bell, Bainbridge R., The Rectory, Cheltenham.
Bell, Charles W., J.P., D.L., Yewhurst, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Bellasis, Major G. M., c/o H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., Devonshire House, Richmond, near London.
Benson, Mrs., Lambeth Palace, London, S.E.
Benson, R. Hugh, 1, Landscape-place, Llandaff.
Berens, Rev. Randolph, M.A., 14, Prince's-gardens, London, S.W.
Bergen, Axel von, Harewood Hill, Darlington.
Bergen, Dr. Carl von, 32, Karlavagen, Stockholm.
Berkeley, Captain H. Fitzhardinge, R.N., Warwick Lodge, Rivers-
court, Hammersmith, W.
Bernard, John, Captain, R.M.L.I., H.M.S. " Nelson," Portsmouth.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131, Gloucester-road, London, S.W.
Beveridge, Erskine, St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Bewley, Miss Mary M., Netherton House, Clapham Common, S.W.
Bibby, Charles Hesketh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
BiCKFORd-SsiiTh, R.A.H., B.A., 19,Endymion-road, Brixton Rise, S.W.
Bicknell, Rev. Clarence, M.A., Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bicknell, Norman L., Foxgrove, Beckenham, Kent.
Bidder, George P., Q.C., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bidder, Mrs. G. P., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bidder, George P., Junr., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Biddulph, The Lady Elizabeth P., 19, Ennismore-gardens, S.W.
Bigg, Miss Louisa, Lyndhurst, Luton.
Birks, Rev. Edward B., M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Birrell, Mrs., Placilla, Down View-road, Worthing.
Blackburn, Ernest M., 38, Egerton-gardens, London, S.W.
Blackwell, Elizabeth, M.D., Rock House, Hastings.
Blackwood, Mrs., Norton Court, Sittingbourne, Kent.
Blakelock, Rev. R., M.A., Horbury Bridge Vicarage, Wakefield.
Blaquiere, Mrs. Charles de, 1, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Boger, Mrs. H. M., Elvington, Ryde, Isle of Wight.
List of Members and Associates. 375
Bois, Herbert G., 4, Clarendon-place, Hyde Park-square, W.
Boldero, Lieut.-General G. N., 20, Westbourne-gardens, Folkestone.
Bolland, Mrs., 7, Cranbury-terrace, Southampton.
Bonus, Arthur R., c/o A. Scott and Co., Rangoon, Burmah.
Boorne, Herbert H., 55 and 56, Chancery-lane, London, W.C.
Boscq de Beaumont, G. du, Bayeux, (Calvados), France.
Boucher, Mrs., c/o Miss Lutley, West-street, Wiveliscombe, Somerset.
Bourget, Paul, 7, Rue de Monsieur, Paris.
Bouverie, Edward O. P., M.A., 93, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Bovill, Mrs. Alfred, 9, St. Andrew's-place, Regent's Park, N.W.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Highclere Rectory, Newbury.
Bowlby, Arthur S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bowness, William Wilson, 26,Campden-grove, Kensington, London,W.
Boyd, C. W., 7, Abbotsford-crescent, St. Andrews, N.B.
Boyd, William Henry, Ballymacool, Letterkenny.
Bramston, Miss A. R., Witham-close, Winchester.
Bramston, Miss M., Suntrap, Radcliffe-road, Croydon.
Bramwell, John M., M.B., 2, Henrietta-street, Cavendish-square,W.
Brandreth, Henry S., Fairholme, Weybridge.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brett, George, The College, Weston-super-Mare.
Brewster, Mrs. F., 21, Park-valley, Nottingham.
Briggs, Mrs., Rawdon Hall, near Leeds.
Brill, Alice B., M.D., New York, U.S.A.
Britten, James, F.L.S., 18, West-square, Southwark, S.E.
Brooke, Lady, Ranee of Sarawak, 12, Hans-place, London, S.W.
Brooke, Rev. Stopford A., M.A., 1, Manchester-square, London, W.
Brown, Mrs., 21, South-street, Park-lane, W.
Brown, Miss Johnson, 26, Carisbrooke-road, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Browne, Edward G., M.A., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browne, Mrs. Walter P., Bidston, Alleyn-road, West Dulwich, S.E.
Browning, Oscar, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Brownlow, The Countess, Ashridge, Berkhamsted.
Bruhns, Theodore, Simferopol, Russia.
Bryce, J. P., J. P., Bystock, near Exmouth, Devon.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15, Campden Hill-square, W.
Buchanan, H. B. M., B.A., 9, Upper Beulah Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Buckler, W. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bullock, Mrs., Cedars Lodge, Mitcham, Surrey.
Rui.mer, Mrs., Field House, Sleights, R.S.O., York.
Runnett, A., Junr., 35, Whitehorse-road, Croydon.
Bunshaw, N. F., Medical Officer, B.G.J.P. Railway, Ghadechi,
Kathiawar, India.
Burt, Percival J., 16, Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
376 List of Members and Associates.
Burton, Mrs., Longner Hall, Shrewsbury.
Burton, Mrs., 1, Iddesleigh Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Bushell, Rev. W. D., M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill.
Butcher, Miss, 22, Collingham-place, London, S.W.
Bute, The Marquis of, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Butler, G. W., B.A., F.G.S., Blenheim Lodge, Surbiton, Surrey.
Butt, Lady, 8, Petersham-terrace, Gloucester-road, S.W.
Buttemer, Robert William, St. Mary's, Godalniing.
Buxton, Lady, Shadwell Court, Thetford.
Caillard, Vincent, Constantinople.
Caird, Mrs., 3. Lyndhurst-gardens, South Hampstead, London.
Caldecott, Rev. Alfred, M.A., 45, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
Callaway, Charles, D.Sc., M.A., Sandon, Wellington, Salop.
Campbell, James A., Barbreck, v'ul Lochgilphead, Argyll, N.B.
Campbell, Mrs. Napier, 81, Ashley-gardens, London, S.W.
Cannon, Mrs., Hillcot, Sharpies, near Bolton.
Carey, Arthur, B.Sc, Browsich, Gateacre, near Liverpool.
Carleton, Hon. Mrs. Leir, Greywell Hall, Winchfield.
*Carlile, W. A., 101, Whitehead-road, Aston, Birmingham.
Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Caudee, Miss, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley and Co., London, E.C.
Cave, Charles, J. P., 13, Lowndes-square, London, S.W.
Cave-Browne-Cave, Mrs. T., Burnage, Streatham Common, S.W.
Cazalet, Mrs., Grenehurst, Dorking.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
Champness, Alfred, Sedbergh, Yorks.
Chandler, Rev. H. 0. D., M.A., Waterbeach Vicarage, Cambridge.
Charlesworth, Miss A. M., Maitland House, Clapham Common, S.W.
Chase, Capt. W. St. L., V.C., care of Messrs. William Watson and
Co., 28, Apollo-street, Bombay.
Chattock, Arthur P., University College, Bristol.
Childers, Miss F. I., 46, Gunter's-grove, London, S.W.
Clark, W. W., Denehurst, Dorking.
Clark, Miss, Suffield Park, Cromer.
Clarke, John Henry, M.D., 30, Clarges-street, London, W.
Clarke, Robert H, M.A., M.B., M.R.C.S., Clarence Lodge, Redhill.
Clavequin, Edward, Munster Lodge, Monkstown, Dublin.
Clayton, Charles E., Hillcote, Highcroft Villas, Brighton.
Clemens, S. L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Clive, The Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Close, Rev. Maxwell H., M.A., University Club, Dublin.
Coates, Andrew, Pitcullen House, Perth, N.B.
Coffin, Walter H., F.L.S., 94, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, C.B., Cosheen, Castle Townshend, co. Cork.
List of Members and Associates. 377
Colchester, Rev. H. B., M.A., 7, Bennett-street, St. James's, S.W,
Cole, Alfred C, M.A., 64, Portland-place, W.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Coles, D. A., M. D., Sydney House, Sutton Court-road, Chiswick, W.
Collins, Sir Robert H., K.C.B., Broom Hill, Claremont, Esher,
Collison, Mrs. Henry C, Newlands, Weybridge, Surrey.
Colt, Frederick E., 9, Old-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Colthurst, Lady, 47, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, London, W,
Colvile, Colonel Henry E., C.B., 24, Chapel-st., Belgrave-square, S.W.
Cooney, Rev. Stewart E., M.A., 73, Botanic-avenue, Belfast.
Cope, Rev. C. H., M.A., 15, Racknitz-strasse, Dresden, A.
Cort van der Linden, Professor P. VV. A., Amsterdam, Holland.
Coues, Dr. Elliott, 1,726, N-street, N.W. Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Cousens, Charles H., Star Chambers, 30, Moorgate-st., London, E.G.
Cowan, Mrs., Valleyfield, Penicuik, N.B.
Cowper, TnE Hon. Mrs. Spencer, 38, Rue Jean Goujon, Paris.
Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S-, 2, Caven-
dish-square, London, W.
Crawford, F. Marion,Villa Crawford, Sant'Agnellodi Sorrento, Italy.
Crawford, W. C, 1, Lockharton-gardens, Slateford, Midlothian, N.B.
Crawshay, Robert, 16, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Crespo, J. Charters, Rio Maior, Portugal.
Crewdson, Miss Gwendolen, St. Regulus, St. Andrews, Fife, N.B.
Crommelin, Miss Constance de la C, 29, Sussex-square, Brighton.
Crossley, Mrs. C. R., 103, Gloucester-place, Portman-square, London,W.
Crowe, W. Leadham, 15, Great St. Helens, London, E.C.
Crowther, W. Fearne, Mayfield, Sussex.
Cruise, F. R., M.D., 93, Merrion-square, Dublin.
Crumf, Harold E., M.A., The Chestnuts, St. Margaret's, Twickenham.
Cunningham, G.,D.M.D. (Harvard, U.S.A.), 2, King's-parade, Cambridge.
Cunningham, Rev. W., D.D., 2, St. Paul's-road, Cambridge.
*Curtis, Miss Mary, Laugharne, St. Clears, South Wales.
D'Abbadie, Antoine, 120, Rue de Bac, Paris.
Dakin, Rev. Edward, Selsley, Stroud, Gloucestershire.
Dakyns, Henry Graham, M.A,Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Dallas, Miss H. S. A., Clifford House, Wellington, Somerset.
Damania, Surgeon-Major, P. J., National Liberal Club, London.
Daniel, A. M., B.A., Temple Chambers, London, E.C.
Darell-Brown, Mrs., 1, Douro-villas, Cheltenham.
Darley, Lady, Quambi, Woollohra, New South Wales.
Darwin, Mrs. Francis, Wychfield, Huntingdon-road, Cambridge.
Davis, A. E., L.R.C.S. (Ed.), L.R.C.P.I., 20, Great George-sq., Liverpool.
Davis, Thomas Henry, 23, Manor-park, Lee, Kent.
Davison, Miss Annie, 1, Stanford-road, Kensington, W.
S78 List of Members and Associates.
Dawkin, William, 61, Clifton-street, LarkhalMane, S.W.
De Grey, The Countess, 1, Carlton-gardens, London, S.'W.
"*Despard, Miss, 77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, London, W.
Dewar, Rev. Peter, M.A., The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, N.B.
Dickinson, Goldsworthy L., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Dickinson', Mrs., c/o Miss Hyett, 29, Pembroke-gardens, Kensington.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., 80, Peel-street, Campden Hill, London, W.
Dill, J. P. Gordon, M.A., M.B., 6, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Dixon, Edward T., 12, Barkston Mansions, South Kensington, S.W.
Dixon, Hugh N., M.A., F.L.S., Wickham House, East Park Parade,
Northampton.
Dobbie, A. W., Gawler-place, Adelaide, South Australia.
Dobie, StanleyL.,SurgeonLt.-Col., Supt. Govt. LunaticAsylum,Madrns.
Dodgson, Rev. Charles Lutwidge, M.A., Christ Church, Oxford.
Donnelly, Mrs., Kendall-street, Cowra, New South Wales.
Doubleday, Mrs. Frances G., c/o Drexel, Harris and Co., 37,
Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
Doveton, F. B., Eastcliffej Babbacombe, South Devon.
Dowson, Mrs., L.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.S.I., 20, Westgate-terrace, Redcliffe-
square, London, S.W.
Doyle, A. Conan, M.D., 12, Tennison-road, South Norwood, S.E.
Duff, Charles E., M.B., 122, High-street, Deptford.
Dugdale, Mrs. Stratford, Merevale Hall, Atherstone.
Dyce, Captain Cecil, (Retired) Bengal Staff Corps, 3, St. Stephen's-
road, Westbourne Park, W.
Eagle, Frederick, Barum House, Queen-street, Henley on-Thames.
Eardley, Lady, 4, Lancaster-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Earle, Mrs. C. W., 5, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Edelsten, John A., 31, Bold-street, Warrington.
Egerton, Miss Mary L., Whitwell Hall, York.
Elder, Frederick, 21, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Elder, Mrs., Campden House, Kensington, London, W.
Elliot, Mrs. Minto, 7, George-street, Hanover-square, W.
Elliott, Sir Charles Alfred, K.C.S.I., LL.B., Calcutta.
Elliott, Rev.W.A.,2, Clarence-villas,Westbonrne-gardens, Trowbridge.
Ellis, John Edward, M.P., 40, Pont-street, London, S.W.
Ellison, Rev. John II., M.A., 4, Warwick-square, London, S.W.
Elton, Oliver, M.A., 58, Flanders-road, Bedford Park, W.
Elvey, Miss Mary M., Finborough-road.West Brompton, London, S.W.
Elworthy, Arthur K., Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset.
Elwyn, Rev. Canon, M.A., Master's Lodge, Charterhouse, London.
Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Ermacora, Dr., G.B., Padua, Italy.
Esterhasy, Count Michel, Cseklesz, Pressburg County, Hungary.
List of Members and Associates. 379
Eustace, John, N., M.D., Highfield, Drumcondra, co. Dublin.
Eustace, Miss Grace, Castlemore, Tullow, co. Carlow, Ireland.
Evans, Kirkham, Adelaide, South Australia.
Eves, Mrs. Charles T., Brook's Lodge, The Park, Cheltenham.
Ewing, Lieut-Colonel, A., The Lawn, Taunton.
Pagan, Mrs. L. M., 56, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Falcke, Dudley C, 5, Pump-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Palcomer, Professor M. T., Technical Institute. Teramo, Italy.
Parncombe, George Richard, B.A., 40, Belgrave-street, Birmingham.
Feilding, The Lady Louisa, 23, Princes-gate, London, S.W.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, Newman House, Kennington-road, S.E.
Felton, Alfred, Melbourne, Australia.
Fielding, Mrs., 19, Wilton-place, London, S.W.
Fielding, Mrs. T. M., 25, Cardigan-road, Richmond, near London.
Finch, H. Wynne, Junr., B.A., 5, Alfred-place West, Thurloe-sq., S.W.
*Finzi, Dr. George, 11, Monte di Pieta, Milan.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
FitzGerald,DesmondG.,M.S.T.E.,46, Loughborough-rd., Brixton, S.W.
Fletcher, Rev. W. Roby, M.A., Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Adelaide, South Australia.
Florence, Ernest B., 33, Redcliffe-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Flynt, William Garnett, 7, Walmer-road, Birkdale Park, Southport.
Ford, Mrs. Gerard, 7, Mandeville-place, London, W.
Forrester, Mrs., Gavell House, Kilsyth, N.B.
Forster, A., 6, Anglesea-terrace, Gensing-gardens, St. Leonards.
Fort, Charles Leyland, B.A., Alderbury House, Salisbury.
Foster, Gerald H., 5, Cleveland-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
Fountain, Alfred, The Elms, Cornwall-road, Uxbridge.
Fox, St. George Lane, 4. Grosvenor-gardens, London, S.W.
Fraser, Col. A. T., R.E., Bellary, Madras Presidency.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C.,Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor-gdns., S.W.
Fricker, John C, 6, Colville-terrace, Bayswater, London, W.
Fry, Lewis George, 13, Thurlow-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Fry, Oliver A, M.A., 141, Portsdown-road, Maida-vale, London, W.
Fry, R. E., B.A., 1, Palace Houses, Bayswater Hill, London, W.
♦Fryer, Rev. A. T., 13, Dumfries-place, Cardiff.
Furnivall, Percy, Belgrave Hospital for Children, London, S.W.
Garbett, Edward H., Barcombe House, Hull.
Gardiner, Rev. Edward R., M.A., Fawley Vicarage, Wantage.
Gardner, Right Hon. H., M.P., 48, Charles-street, Berkeley-sq., W.
Gardner, The Lady Winifred, 48, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Gardner, Mrs. Ernest, c/o Miss Wilson, 33, Ladbroke-square, W.
Garner, Edwin T., Glendale, Alexandra-road, Selhurst, Surrey.
Garry, Francis N., M.A., St. Mary's Vicarage, Reading.
2 c
380 List of Members and Associates.
Garth, Henry, M.B., CM. (Edin.), Morden, near Mitcham, Surrey.
Gaussen, Mrs. L.D., Marton, Basechurch, Salop.
Gessmann, Gustav, Junr., Zwolfers Gasthof, Altmansdorf, Vienna.
Gibotteau, Aime, M.D., Villa Bearnaise, Biarritz.
Gilcriest, W. F., A.I.C.E. (Ireland), Sligo.
Glardon, Rev. Auguste, Tour de Peilz, Vaud, Switzerland.
Glover, John J. T., 124, Stephen's Green, W., Dublin.
Godfrey, Thomas H., M.B., Van Mildert House, Stockton-on-Tees.
Godfrey, Mrs., c/o Col. O.W. Godfrey, Bombay StaffCorps, Poona, India.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., M.A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford.
Goodier, Miss B. M., Fulshaw Bank, Wilmslow, Cheshire.
Goodman, Louis H., Bertram House, 170, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Goodman, Roger N, B.A., B.Sc., Brookfield, Cambridge.
•Goodrich-Freer, Miss, 2, Westbourne Park-road, London, W.
Gordigiani, Edward, 50, Via Degli Alfani, Florence.
Goring, Lady, Strettington, Chichester.
Gover, John M., LL.D., 5, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Graham, Henry R., 8, Marble Arch, London, W.
Graham, J. W., B.A., Meadowside, Heald-place, Rusholme, Manchester.
Graham, William W., 4, Elm-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Grantham, F. W., 100, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Gray, Rev. A., M.A., Malvern House, East Liss, Hants.
Gray, Edward W., Surgeon-Captain, The Citadel, Cairo, Egypt.
Green, C. T, M R.C.S., L.R.C.P. (Lond.), 33, Grange-mt., Birkenhead.
Green, Miss Marian, The High School, Spring Mount, Blackburn.
Greener, W. O., 2, Kent Villas, Ealing.
Greig, Rev. David, M.A., Cottenham Rectory, Cambridge.
Grier, Captain George R., Leonardstone House, Neyland, Wales.
Griffith, Miss E. C, 37, York-street, Portman-square, London, W.
Griffith, Mrs. Robert W., The Old House, Llandaff.
Grignon, Rev. William S., M.A., Essenden, Hatfield, Herts.
Grooan, Miss, 18, Ridgmount-gardens, London, W.C.
Groom, Ernest, Dothill Park, Wellington, Salop.
*Grubb, Edward, M.A., Rye Croft, Fulford-road, Scarborough.
Grubbe, Hubert H., National Liberal Club, London, S.W.
Gudgeon, James, Stowmarket.
Guest, A. H., L.R.C. P. E.,Westbourne, Whalley-range, Manchester.
Guinness, Miss Henrietta,
Gunton, Rev. Charles F., M.A., Farlam Vicarage, Milton, Carlisle.
Gunton, Rev. F., M.A., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Gurney, Rev. Alfred, M.A, St. Barnabas' Parsonage, Pimlico, S.W.
GuRNEY,RF.v.F.,M.A.,St. John's Cottage, BoveyTracey, Newton Abbot.
Gurney, Henry G., 3, Regent-street, London, W.
Gurney, Mrs. Russell, 3, Orme-square, London, W.
List of Members and Associates. 3S1
Hackett, James F., B.A., 71, King William-street, Adelaide, Australia.
Haggard, John G-, H.B.M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Haig, Mrs. C. E., Orchardwood, Ascot Heath, Berks.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 2, Edinburgh-terrace, Kensington, W.
Hall, Charles S., The Borough Chambers, Bournemouth.
Hall, George, M.D., CM. Edin., Wyndham Lodge, Milford, Surrey.
Hamilton, Colonel G. Rowan, Killyleagh Castle, co. Down, Ireland.
Hansford, Charles, 3, Alexandra-terrace, Dorchester.
Hargrave, JosEPh G., The Grange, Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Manchester.
Hargreaves, Miss, 69, Alexandra-road, Southport.
Harpur, Rev. George, B.A., Clifton Vicarage, Newark.
Harris, J. C, Bruce Herald Office, Union-st., Milton, Otago, N.Z.
Hartley, Lieut.-Colonel J., LL.D., D.L., The Old Downs, Hartley,
near Fawkham, vid Dartford.
Hartshorn, Miss C, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley and Co., London, E.C.
Hastie, Miss, 11, Ashburn-place, Cromwell-road, S.W.
Hay, The Hon. Mrs. Alistair, 8, Upper Belgrave-street, London, S.W.
Hayes, Frederick W., 12, Westcroft-square, Ravenscourt Park, W.
*Hayes, Joseph W., 1, George's-street, Enniscorthy.
Hayward, M. Cecil, Caius College, Cambridge.
Heaton, Charles, M.R.C.S., Watford, Herts.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, 55, Sutherland-avenue, Maida-vale, W.
Henley, Hon. Ernest, Watford Court, Rugby.
Henniker-Major, The Hon. Mary, 4, Berkeley-street, Piccadilly, W.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1, Argyll-villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert, Hon. Auberon, M.A., Burley, Ringwood, Hants.
Herringham, Mrs., 22, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Hewetson,H.Bendelack,F.L.S,M.R.C.S.,ll,Hanover-sq., Leeds.
Hibbs, Reginald R., 13, St. Lawrence-road, North Kensington, W.
Higgin, F. C, Killiney Castle, Killiney, co. Dublin.
Hildyard, F.W., St. Nicholas Club,8lA, QueenVictoria-st., London, E.C.
Hill, Miss E. D., Instowe, Cheltenham.
Hill, Henry, The Park, Nottingham.
Hill, W. Scott, 47, Manor-place, Edinburgh.
Hill-Tout, Charles, Trinity College, Vancouver, B.C.
Hills, Mrs., Corby Castle, Carlisle.
Hodding, Miss, Selwood House, Barnard's Cross, Salisbury.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogg, Miss A. M. M., Berry Head House, Brixham.
Hogg, Henry R., M.A., Melbourne Club, Melbourne, Australia.
Hole, Rev. Donald, A.K.C., The Vicarage, Aylesford, Kent.
Holland, Hon. Lionel R., B.A., 75, Eaton-square, S.W.
Holland, J. F. R., M.D., Kulm Hotel, St. Moritz, Switzerland.
Holland Miss, Niddry Lodi*e, Campden Hill, London, W.
2 c 2
382 List of Members and Associates.
Hollond, John R., M.A., 1, Upper Berkeley-street, Portman-sq., W.
Holstein, Madame Alexandra de, 29, Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
Holt, H. Sherwin, Wave Cottage, Chelmsford.
Hood, H. J., M.A., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Hook, Rev. Cecil, M.A., Hook Memorial Vicarage, Leeds.
Hooper, Gordon, L.D.S.R.C.S., 21, New Cavendish-st., Harley-st.,W.
Hooper, Mrs. Pitman, 11, Bulstrode-street, Manchester-square, W.
Hopkinson.Professor A., M.A..B.C.L., The Lodge, 32,Herne Hill, S.E.
Hopp8, John Page, Oak Tree House, South Norwood Hill, London, S.E.
Horne, Alderson, Ditton-place, Balcombe, Sussex.
Howard, The Lady Mabel, Greystoke Castle, Penrith.
Howard, Robert Henry, Bishop Hatfield's Hall, Durham.
Howe, E. R. J. Gambier, 7, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Howorth, Henry H, M.P., Derby House, Eccles, near Manchester.
Hubbe-Schleiden, Dr. J. U., Steglitz, near Berlin.
Huddleston, Mrs., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
Hughes, Major H. M., F.R.G.S., Rose Bank, Marden Park, Caterham
Valley, Surrey.
Hughes, Mrs., Gwynnondale, Llanarthney, R.S.O., Carmarthenshire.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., B.Sc. (Lond.), Trinity College, Cambridge.
Humfrey, Miss L. R., 8, Hyde Park Mansions, London, W.
Hunter, Thomas, Arnold House, Rugby.
HuTchiNs, D. E., Conservator of Forests, Cape Town,
Hutchinson, Frederick W. H., B.A., 1, Emmanuel-rd., Cambridge.
Hutchison, Rev. R.P., M.A., Martyr Worthy Rectory, Winchester.
Infield, H. I., 130, North-street, Brighton.
Inglis, Rev. D., Douglas, Isle of Man.
Irving, Lewis A., Surgeon-Major, Govt. House, Ganesh Khind, Bombay.
Isaachsen, Rev. ThoRVEld E., 44, Boompjes, Rotterdam.
Jackson, William H., M.A., F.L.S., PenWartha, Weston-super-Mare.
Jackson, Miss E. R., 3f, Carlisle-place, Westminster, S.W.
♦James, Captain, 10, Hereford-road, Bayswater, London, W.
Jameson, F., 6, Westbourne Park-villas, London, W.
Jameson, Miss, Glencormac, Bray, Ireland.
Jeaffreson, Rbv.H. H..M.A., 115, Clifton Hill, St.John's Wood, N.W.
Jebb, Rev. H. Gladwyn, M.A., Firbeck Hall, Rotherham.
Jebb, J. Gladwyn, 11, Chester-place, Hyde Park-square, London, W.
Jebb, Mrs., Springfield, Newnham, Cambridge.
Jebb, Miss S. G., Myn-yr-Afon, Ruabon.
Jeffreys, Mrs., Glandyfi Castle, Glandovey, R.S.O., North Wales.
♦Jenkins, E. Vaugiian, Enorglyn, 38, St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
Jenkinson, Mrs. F. R. G., 112, Sloane-street, London, S.W.
Jennings, Mrs., 16, Lower Sloane-street, S.W.
Jeune, Lady, 37, Wimpole street, London, W.
List of Members and Associates. 3S3
Johnson, William Ernest, M.A., Llandaff House, Cambridge.
Johnston, Miss M. F., 16, Gunterstone-road, West Kensington, W.
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Joyce, S., Junr., 50, The Crescent, Salford, Manchester.
Kane, J. G. Auriol, Sloperton Lodge, Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Kay, H. A., 71, Maida-vale, London, W.
Keatinoe, Mrs. R. H., Lodgelands, Balcombe, Sussex.
Keene, Rev. James B., M.A., The Rectory, Navan, co. Meath.
Keef, A. P. Perceval, M.A., 2, Lloyd-place, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Kelso, Commander, R.N., Horkesby Park, Colchester.
Kenmare, The Countess of, Killarney House, Killarney.
Ker, C. B., M.D., Hadley House, Cheltenham.
Kerr, George, M.A., M.B,, 6, St. Colme-street, Edinburgh.
*Keulemans, J. G., 13, York-terrace, Brewery-road, Southend.
Kingsbury, George C, M.D., 3, Brighton-parade, Blackpool.
Kingston, H. D. R., M.B., Stormont Lodge, Willesden, N.W.
*Kirk, Joseph, 2, Ripon-villas, Upper Ripon-road, Flumstead, Kent.
Knowles, Ernest, Inglehurst Park-road, Bolton-le-Moors.
Knox, Nathaniel A., Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Australia.
Konstamm, Edwin M.,
Lach-Szyrma,Rev. W.S., M.A., F.R.H.S., Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford.
Lafone, Alfred W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R.M., M.A., B.Sc., Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lamplugh, Rev. David, M.A., Yalding Vicarage, Maidstone.
Lancaster, Ernest Le C, M.B., Winchester House, Swansea.
Leadam, Isaac S., 117, St. George's-square, S.W.
Leaf, Arthur H., Old Change, London, E.C.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leete, Miss, 2, Earl's Court-gardens, London, S.W.
Leete, Miss L, 2, Earl's Court-gardens, London, S.W.
Legge, The Lady Frances, Woodsome, Hudderstield.
Leigh, W. Austen, M.A., 2, Norfolk-crescent, Hyde Park, London,W.
Lewis, C. W. Mansel, Stradey Castle, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Leycester, Mrs., 6, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Leymarie, P. G., 5, Rue des Petits Champs, Paris.
Leyson, Miss Kate, Penscynnor, Neath, South Wales.
Librarian of the Public Library, Adelaide, South Australia.
Librarian, School of Arts, Brisbane, Queensland.
Librarian of the Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, General Assembly Library, Wellington, New Zealand.
Limond, Miss Catherine, 15, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Lincoln, The Very Rev. The Dean of, The Deanery, Lincoln.
384 List of Members ami Associates.
Lindsay, Miss Beatrice, Bohemia, Port St. Mary, Isle of Man.
Limdsay, Robert, L.R.C.S., M.B., 59, Caversham-road, London, N.W.
Lloyd, Francis, Grenadier Guards, 43, Rutland-gate, London, S.W.
Lloyd, Otho Holland, 16, Tite-street, Chelsea, S.W.
Lodge, Professor O. J., D.SC, F.R.S., 2, Grove-park, Liverpool.
Lodge, Robert, Great Gearies, Ilford.
Loewe, Huoo L, 3, Southampton-street, London, W.C.
Longstaff, G. B., M.A., M.B. (Oxon.), Highlands, Putney Heath, S.W.
Lord, Mrs. Robert, Newstead, Albert-road, Bolton, Lancashire.
Lovell, Reginald H., 449, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Low, Lady, 23, De Vere-gardens, Kensington, W.
Lucas, Mrs. E. A., Clareville, co. Galway.
Lyttelton, Sybella Lady, 9, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Macalister, Professor A., M.D., F.R.S., Torrisdale, Cambridge.
MacColl, Rev. Canon Malcolm, M.A., Devonshire Club, St.
James's, S.W.
♦Macdonald, Rev. J. A., Heswall, Cheshire.
Mackay, George D., Inveralmond, Cramond, Midlothian, N.B.
Macky, Dr., 4, Curzon-street, Mayfair, W.
Mackenzie, J. Kenneth D., Broadway Chambers,Westminster, S.W.
MacNaughton, Rev. Samuel, M.A., Rose Bank, Addison-road, Preston.
Maitland, Edward, B.A., 1, Studio-buildings, Thurloe-square, S.W.
Major, Albert, 77, Clapham-road, London, S.W.
Malden, William E. P., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Malmesbury, Susan Countess of, 25, Sloane-gardens, S.W.
Manders, H., F.R.C.S., Agincourt House, Yorktown, Farnborough.
Mangin, Marcet, 130, Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, M.A., Woodford Bridge, Essex.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 5, South Bank-terrace, Surbiton.
Marjoribanks, Lady, Tillmouth Park, Cornhill-on-Tweed, Northumber
land.
Marshall, Arthur, 13, Belsize-avenue, London, N.W.
Marshall, Henry William, Quorn, South Australia.
Marshall, Thomas, Leeds Library, Commercial-street, Leeds.
Marshall, William Cecil, M.A., 28, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Marson, Gervase, 3, Park-road, Southport.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Martin, Miss A. E., 34, Elvaston-place, Queen's Gate, S.W.
Martin, Mrs. E. G., 42, Rue Gambetta, Honfleur (Calvados), France.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, 17, Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
Martin, W. R., 65, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Assist. Commissioner (Indian Civil
Service), Sialkot, Punjab, India.
Mason, Miss M. H, Morton Hall, Retford, Notts.
List of Members and Associates. 385
Massey, Charles C, 124, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Masterman, Miss Louisa, Cawood Lodge, Haslemere.
Mathews, G.B.,B.A.,9, Mcnai View-terrace,UpperBangor,NorthWales.
Matthews, Frank H., 22, Wentworth-street, Bolton, Lanc.
Matthews, H. de Couves, The Mount, Monken Hadley, Barnet.
McAlpine, Mrs., Ardenconnel-row, near Helensburgh, N.B.
McHuoh, P. A., M.P., Sligo.
McKerlie, Miss Helen G., Monkstown, co. Dublin.
McLaren, Mrs. C, 45, Harrington-gardens, London, S.W.
McLaughlin, E. N., Trinity Villa, Spanish Town, Jamaica.
McNeile, Mrs., Admiralty House, Lewes.
Melville, Andrew P., 3, West Castle-road, Merchiston, Edinburgh.
Merrilees, J. F., M.D., Auburn, Victoria.
Micklethwait, Richard K., Ardsley House, Barnsley.
Milford, The Lady, 16, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Miller, Mrs. W. Pitt, Merlewood, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Milman, Mrs. W. H., 17, Southwell-gardens, London, S.W.
Mitchell, Mrs. C. W., 195, Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Molesworth, Sir Guilford L., K.G.I.E., Simla, India.
Money, Colonel Gerard Noel, C.B., F.R.G.S.
Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett,Walsingham House, Piccadilly,W.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, co. Limerick.
Montgomery, Mrs., 9, Hartley-road, Exmouth.
Moore, Lt.-General Montgomery, Bellevue, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Mordan, Miss C. E., 15, Queen-square, W.C.
Morgan, Rev. Edward, B.A., Penmark Vicarage, Cowbridge.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 3, Douglas-crescent, Edinburgh.
Morison, Theodore, M.A., Aligarh, N.W.P., India.
Moul, Mrs., 3, Prince's Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Moule, John, Codicote, Welwyn, Herts.
Moulton, Mrs. F. A., c/o Messrs. Munro & Co., 7, Rue Scribe, Paris.
Mount-Temple, The Lady, Shelley House, Chelsea, S.W.
Moynihan, B. G. A., M.B. (Lond.), The General Infirmary, Leeds.
Munro, Henry Acland, B.A., Guy's Hospital, S.E.
Munthe, Dr., Rome.
Murray, Mrs. G. A., 10, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Murray, Colonel Hugh H, R.A., 28, Gower-street, London, W.C.
Murray, R. M., M.A., M.B., M.R.C.P.(Edin.), 10, Hope-st., Edinburgh.
Murray, Sydney J., 70, Cecile-park, Crouch Hill, London, N.
Murray, T. Douglas, 33, Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Murray-Aynsley, Mrs., Great Brampton, near Hereford.
Muse, Mrs. Eva S., Santa Fe', New Mexico, U.S.A.
Musk, Miss Agnes, Market-place, Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Myers, A. T., M.D., F.R.C.P., 2, Manchester-square, London, W.
386 List of Members and Associates.
Myers, Mrs., Brandon House, Cheltenham.
Myers, Frederic W. H., M.A., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Mylne, Mrs., 122, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Nathan, S. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Neate, Percy John, F.G.S., M.M.E., Medway Iron Works, Rochester.
Nelson, Rev. George, LL.D., The Rectory, Southwick, Brighton.
Neville, Francis Henry, M.A., Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
Newbold, Miss A., 4, Artillery-buildings, Victoria-street, S.W.
Newmann, Oscar P., 84, Newman-street, London, W.
Newsom, John, The American Trading Company, Yokohama, Japan.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, 781, Madison-avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Nicholl, Iltyd B., The Ham, Cowbridge, South Wales.
Nicholls, Rev. T. B., M.A., St. Oswald's College, Tynemouth.
Nicholson, Sir Charles, Bart., D.C.L, LLD., M.D., The Grange,
Totteridge, Herts.
Nkoll, Augustus, M.B., 99, Elm Park-gardens, S. Kensington, S.W.
Nicolson, Sir A., K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Embassy, Constantinople.
*Nisbet, E. T., 17, Latimer-street, Tynemouth.
Noakes, D. W., 23, Nelson-street, Greenwich, S.E.
Noel, Hon. Roden, St. Aubyns, West Brighton.
Noel-Cox, Herbert L. N., 2, Edinburgh Mansions, Victoria-st., S.W.
Norris, William Alfred, Holmwood Lodge, Laton-road, Hastings.
Nutter, Mrs., Fairseat, Wrotham, Kent.
Oakeley, Miss H. D., 97, Warwick-road, Earl's Court, S.W.
Ogilvie, G. M., c/o Messrs. H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Oman, Mrs., St. Philip's Lodge, Painswick-road, Cheltenham.
Oman, Charles W. C, M.A., All Souls' College, Oxford.
O'Neill, Gregory L.,M.B.,140,Elizabeth-st.,Sydney,NewSouth Wales.
Opie, Edward A. D., J.P., Pirie-street, Adelaide.
Osborne, James, Ph.C, Hersham, near Walton-on-Thames.
Pagan, Miss C, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Lady, Villa Bellosguardo, Florence.
Paice, William, M.A., 1, Portman Mansions, Baker-street, W.
Palmer, Lieut. H.R., R.A., The Grand Dep6t Barracks, Woolwich.
Panton, D. Morrieson, Melrose, Porus P.O., Jamaica, W.I.
Parker, Edward W., Little Rock, Arkansas, U.S.A.
Parry, Rev. William Edwards, B.A., 1, Bell-terrace, Clewer,Windsor.
Passingham, Mrs., Lanina, Llandyssil, Cardiganshire.
Peake, C. W., B.A., c/o Mr. Wood, High-street, Newport, Salop.
Pennington, Mrs., c/o William Watson & Co., 28, Apollo-st., Bombay.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Islands.
Perry, E. C, M.D., M.A., Superintendent's House, Guy's Hospital, S.E,
Pethybridge, Walter, 29, Methley-street, Kennington Cross, S.E.
List of Members and Associates. 387
PetrovO-SolovOVO, Michael, 9, Mohovaia, St. Petersburg.
Phillips, Rev. J. T., 147, Beaufort-hill, Beaufort, Mon.
Phillips, Mrs. March, Edmonstone House, Cheltenham.
Phipps, Miss, Knebworth House, Stevenage, Herts.
Pickering, James R., A.I.E.E., 126,Holmesdale-rd.,South Norwood,S.E.
Pilcher, Giles T., 29, Dawson-place, London, W.
Pitt-Taylor, F. S., The Lawn, Rock Ferry, Cheshire.
Plenderleith, William, 60, Stroud Green-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Plummer, J. W., Cockermouth.
Podmore, Frank, M.A., 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, N.W.
Pollock, Miss, 50, Weymouth-street, London, W.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs., 2, Wilton-terrace, Belgrave-square, S.W.
Ponsonby, Miss, Glensouthwell, Rathfarnham, co. Dublin.
Pope, George H., M.A., B.C.L., Merchants' Hall, Bristol.
Porter, Mrs., Ivanhoe, Alum Chine-road, Bournemouth.
Porter, Miss, 16, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, 2, Abbey-gardens, Westminster, S.W,
Postgate, Professor J. P., Litt.D., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Powell, Miss Constance M., 5, Campden Hill-square, London, W.
Powell, George Thompson, Rotherwood, Sydenham Hill, S.E.
Powles, Lewis Charles, M.A., 9, Queen's Gate-place, London, S.W.
Powys, Hon. Mrs. Fox, 29, Albion-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Praed, Mrs. Campbell, 16, Talbot-square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Preble, W. P., Jcnr., 237, Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Pribitkof, V., 23, Troitzky Pereoulok, St. Petersburg.
Pbickett, Miss L. M., Ross Cottage, Fortune Gate-road, Harlesden.
Prothero, Mrs., 63, Trumpington-street, Cambridge.
Pryce, R. A. Vaughan, New College, Hampstead, N.W.
Pullen, Miss, Milton View, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Shotley Bridge, co. Durham.
Pye, William A., 25, Mark-lane, London, E.C.
Pym, Mrs. Angela, Bankside, Lunham-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Raalte, Charles van, Aldenham Abbey, Watford.
Radnor, The Countess of, 52, Grosvenor-street, London, W.
Raleigh, Walter A., M.A., 27, Ladbroke-road, London, W.
Ramsay, Professor William, Ph.D., F.R.S., 12, Arundel-gardens, W.
Ramsay, Lady, The Old House, Wimbledon, S.W.
Raper, R. W., M.A., Trinity College, Oxford.
Raphael, Mrs. Walter, 7, Bramham-gardens, S. Kensington, S.W.
Raupert, Rev. H. G., 10, Park-street, Bath.
Rayleigh, Clara Lady, 90, Onslow-gardens, London, S.W.
Reade, Herbert V., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Reicbel, Principal H. R., M.A., University College, Bangor.
Reynolds, Colonel H. C, Thorncliffe, Cheltenham.
List of Members and Associates.
Reynolds, Mrs., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
Richardson, Frederic William, F.C.S., 2, Farcliffe-place, Bradford.
Richardson, Robert E., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Riddiford, Mrs. W. H., Brookfield, Hucclecote, near Gloucester.
Ridley, Frank C, 17, Margaret-street, London, W.
Ridley, Henry N., M.A., F.L.S., Botanic Gardens, Singapore.
Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham-gardens, London, N.W.
Rigg, Thomas S. J.,B.A.,General Post Office, Sydney, New South Wales.
Ritchie, Miss, 131, Clapham-road, London, S.W.
Roberts, William Johnson, 146, Pembroke-road, Dublin.
Roberts, Rev.W.W., Brook Dene, 14, Strawberry Hill-road,Twickenham.
Robertson, C. Lockhart, M.D., Guns Green,The Drive,Wimbledon.
Robertson, George M., M.B., Royal Asylum, Morningside, Edinburgh.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Scale Hall, Ashby-de-la-Zouch.
♦Robertson, Miss N, 1, Oakley-street, Chelsea, S.W.
Robin, Percy A., B.A., Goorge-street, Parkside, Adelaide, Australia.
Robinson, Edward, 4, Castelnau-gardens, Barnes, S.W.
Robinson, Dn. William Newman, Kadina, South Australia.
Roger, W. Wallace, 31, Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Rev. E. H., M.A., Vicarage, Thames Ditton, Kingston-on-
Thames.
Rogers, George F., M.A., 123, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
ROSS, A. Gait, 7, Edinburgh-terrace, Victoria-road, London, W.
Rossi-Pagnoni, Professor G.F., 4, Via Sabbatini, Pesaro, Italy.
Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5, Hamilton-place. London, W.
Roxburgh, R., M.B., F.R.C.S.E., 1, Victoria-bdgs.,Weston-super-Mare.
Riicker, Professor A. W., F.R.S., Errington, Clapham Park, S.W.
Russell, The Earl, Amberley Cottage, Maidenhead.
Russell, Mrs. Campbell, Golden Mead, Chislehurst.
Russell, John, B.A., University Hall, Gordon-square, London, W.C.
Rylands, Thomas G., F.L.S., F.G.S., Highfields, Thelwall, near
Warrington.
Sajous, Charles E., M.D., 28, Rue de Madrid, Paris.
Salmond, Percy N, Captain 3rd Royal Scots, Eldermere, Ilkley.
Samaldas, Lalubhai, Chief Revenue Officer, Bhavnager, Bombay
Presidency, India.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Haywards Heath.
Sams, Rev. George F., M.A., Emberton Rectory, Newport Pagnell.
Sands, Mrs. Mahlon, 40, Portland-place, London, W.
Saunders, Latimer Henry, Trevone House, Padstow.
Saunders, Thomas Bailey, M. A., 13, Hyde Park Gate, S.W.
*Saxby, Mrs., Mount Elton, Clevedon.
Schram, Miss Lilian M.E., 178, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
List of Members and Associates. 389
Schreibeb, Major, 27, Fopstone-road, Earl's Court, S.W.
Schuster, Miss, Cannizaro, Wimbledon, S.W.
Schwabe, Mrs. G. S., 3, Upper Belgrave-road, Clifton, Bristol.
Scott, Sydney C, Hatherleigh, 28, The Avenue, Gipsy Hill, London.
Scripps, T. Cecil, Adelphi Chambers, London, W.C.
*Scudamohe, Mrs., 3, Tollington-park, Holloway, London, N.
Seilern, Count Charles, 23, Wolmersley-road, Stroud Green, N.
Sellin, Professor C. W., 5, Wrangelstrasse, Hoheluft, Hamburg.
Selous, Edmund, Barton Mills, near Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Seymour, Captain Edward H., R.N., 9, Ovington-square, S.W.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, 21, Nottingham-place, London, W.
Shaen, Rev. Richard, M.A., West Cottage, Royston, Herts.
Shand, Alexander F., 1, Edwardes-place, Kensington, W.
Sharpe, James W., M.A., Woodroffe, Portarlington-road, Bourne
mouth.
Sheavyn, Robert F., Long-street, Atherstone.
Sheppard, W. F., M.A., 2, Temple-gardens, E.C.
Shove, Miss E., K.Q.C.P.I.,M.B., 25, St. Mark's-cres., Regent'sPk., N.W.
Shroff, M. M., R. H. Bhaya's House, Bora Bazar-st., Fort Bombay, India.
♦Shield, Mrs., Bowers Gifford Rectory, Essex.
♦Shufeldt, Dr. R.W.,SmithsonianInstitution,Washington,D.C.,U.S.A.
Shuttleworth, John, Kenmare Bridge, by New Galloway, Kirkcud
brightshire, N.B.
Sidgwick, Arthur, M.A., 64, Woodstock-road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 29, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Sidgwick, Professor Henry, Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Simpson, Reginald Wynne, B.A., 14, Cornwall-gardens, S.W.
Sims, F. Manley, F.R.C.S., 12, Hertford-street, Mayfair, W.
Sisley, Richard, M.B., Park-row, Knightsbridge, London, W.
Skeffington, Joseph B., M.A., LL.B., Downpatrick, co. Down, Ireland.
Skene, Miss F. M. F., 13, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Sladen, Douglas, B. W.,
Sloman, Rev. Arthur, M.A., The School House, Birkenhead.
Sloman, Samuel George, Junr., 39, West-street, Farnham.
Smart, J. Naish, Sydney House, Burnham.
Smith, G. Albert, St. Ann's Well, Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
Smith, Rev. Canon H. B., M.A., 32, Royal York-ter., Clifton, Bristo
Smith, Henry Arthur, 1, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Smith, H. Babington, B.A., Riverbank, Putney, London, S.W.
Smith, John George, Junr., Hill House, Surbiton.
Smith, Miss J. M., 52, Stanhope-gardens, Queen's Gate, S.W.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
390 List of Members and Associates.
Smith, R. Morris, 3,715, Chestnut-street, W. Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Smith, R. Pearsall, 44, Grosvenor-road, London, S.W.
SMiTh, Rev. Canon R. Travers, B.D., Vicarage, Clyde-road, Dublin.
Smith, Mrs. Richard, 174, Cromwell-road, London, S.W.
Smith, Wallace A., 34, Devonshire-street, Portland-place, London, W.
Snaith, James F., Ancaster House, 48, Granada-road, Southsea, Hants.
Snape, Mrs., Markland Hill, Heaton, Bolton.
Snow, Chester A., 712, Eighth-street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A
Solovioff, Wsevolod,
Soltykoff, Prince Alexis,
Somerset, Lady Henry, The Priory, Reigate.
Somerset, H. Somers, The Priory, Reigate.
Speer, Mrs. Stanhope, Glenhurat, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spencer, Miss Georgiana M., 25, York-street, Portman-square, W.
Sperling, Arthur, J.P., Lattenbury Hill, St. Ives, Hunts.
Spinks, Judge, Vernon, British Columbia.
St. George, Mrs., 2, Jervis-place, Clonmel, Ireland.
Stackhouse, Mrs. M. F., Stackhouse, Settle.
Stainforth, Miss Emily, 15, Matheson-road, West Kensington, W.
Stanley, Henry M., D.C.L., LL.D., 2, Richmond-terrace, S.W.
Stanwav, Miss Emily, 17, Park-street, Taunton.
Staplev, Alfred M., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Stead, William T., Cambridge House, Wimbledon, S.W.
Stearn, H.T., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Stephenson, Sir Augustus K., K.C.B., Q.C., 46, Ennismore-gar-
dens, S.W.
Stepney, Hon. Lady, 3, Chesham-street, London, S.W.
Stevenson, George, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., Hastings-st., Calcutta.
Stevenson, R. L., Vailinia Plantation, Upolu, Samoan Islands.
Stewart, Mrs. Charlotte A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stillman, W. J., 3, Challoner-street, West Kensington, W.
Stone, Miss Edith L., Shute Hay, Walditch, Bridport.
Stout, George F., M.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Sturges, Mrs.William, 32, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, London,W.
Sturgis, Julian, M.A., 2, Gloucester-place, Portman-sq., London, W.
♦Sugden, Rev. E. H, B.A., B.Sc, Bradford, Yorkshire.
Summerson, Samuel J., Haughton-le-Skerne, Darlington.
Swan, C. A., 10, Delamere-street, London, S.W.
Swan, Joseph Wilson, Lauriston, Bromley, Kent.
Swanwick, Miss Anna, 23, Cumberland-terrace, London, N.W.
Swire, Henry, Captain, 2, Nightingale-place, Woolwich.
Symons, Miss Jessie H., 91, Wigmore-street, London, W.
Synge, Rev. F., M.A., 1, Daleham-gardens, South Hampstead, N.W.
List of Members and Associates. 391
Tancred, Mrs. Clement, 2, Princes' Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Talbot, The Lady Edmund, 26, Curzon-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Tanner, Ernest, Hazlehurst, Penarth.
Tanner, Slingsby, 104b, Mount-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Tattersall, James Granville, Hanover-square Club, London, W.
Tattersall, Robert W., 31, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Tattersall, Wm., 90, High-street, Oxford.
Taunton, Mrs. R. H., Brook Vale, Witton, near Birmingham.
Taxis, The Princess, Grosse Mohrengasse, Vienna.
Taylor, Rev. Arnold D..B.A., Churchstanton Rectory,Honiton, Devon
Taylor, Rev. Charles J., M.A., The Larches, Banstead, Surrey.
Taylor, Miss Edith, 9, Milner-square, London, W.
Taylor, Lieut-Colonel G. L. Le M., Lismore, Guildford.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, near Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Thackeray, Mrs. W. G., Portland House, 32, Kidbrooke Park-road,
Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville-park, Lewisham, S.E.
Thomas, A. C, Korumburra, Gippsland, Victoria, Australia.
Thomas, Joseph William, F.I.C.,F.C.S., Drumpellier, Gloucester
Thompson, I. C, F.L.S., F.R.M.S., Woodstock, Waverley-rd., Liverpool.
Thompson, Rev. Joseph L., Mahaica, E.C. Demerara, British Guiana
South America.
Thomson, Prof. J. J., M.A., F.R.S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Thorpe, Mrs. Mary, Lenton House, Lenton, Nottingham.
Thurstan, Frederick, W., M.A., La Martiniere, Lucknow, India.
Todd, Mrs., Maclean, Clarence River, New South Wales.
Tooth, Rev. Arthur, M.A., Woodside, Croydon.
Townley, Miss F. M., 47, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Trahhrne, Mrs., Coedriglan Park, Cardiff.
Trench, J. Townsend, J.P., Kenmare, Ireland.
Trevor, Rev. Thomas Warren, M.A., Penmon Vicarage, Beaumaris.
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 33, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Tuker, Miss Mildred A.R., 4, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, N.W.
Tweedale, Mrs., Milton Hall, Cambridgeshire.
Tweedie, David M., Adelaide.
Tyrer, Mrs. W., Woodleigb, Prescot.
Underwood, Rev. Canon C. W., M.A., Histon Vicarage, Cambridge.
Vacher, William H., 54, Addison Mansions, Kensington, S.W.
Vailati, Professor Giovanni, Crema, Italy.
Van Eeden, Frederick, M.D., Bussum, Holland.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 251, Keisersgracht, Amsterdam.
Venman, Hkzbkiah, 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
Venn, J.,D.Sc., F. R.S., Summerleigh, Chine Crescent-rd., Bournemouth.
Verrall, Mrs , Selwyn-gardens, Cambridge.
392 List of Members and Associates.
Vbrrall, Miss M. E., 26, Gloucester-place, Brighton.
Vian-Williams, Rev. H., 3, Waterloo-place, North Shields.
Vicars, G. R., M.D., Branston, Lincoln.
Villamarina, The Marchesa di, Falazza Reale, Quirinale, Rome.
Vincent, Maria Lady, Villa Flora, Cannes, France.
Vincent, R. Harry, Fernbank, Leytonstone, N.E.
Vivian, H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Vores, Arthur, M.R.C.S., 8, Mansfield-street, Cavendish-square, W.
Walker, Mrs. Stewart, Shrewsbury House, Oxton, Cheshire.
♦Walwyn, Mrs., 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Warburton, Rev. W. T., M. A, The Vicarage, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Ward, The Hon. Miss, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
Wardrof, Mrs., 10, Lower Belgrave-street, Eaton-square, S.W.
Warrand, Mrs., Bught, Inverness, N.B.
Warter, Mrs. Tatham, Longden Manor, Pontesford, Salop.
Wassell, H. A., F.R.A.S.,Addenbrook Villa,01d Swinford,Stourbridge.
Waterhodse,C.H.,M.D.,56, KarlLudwig Strasse,Ober-Dobling,Vienna.
Watson, Rev. John, M.A., 18, Sefton Drive, Liverpool.
Watson, Mrs. W. C, 39, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Webber-Smith, Colonel James, 27, Shaftesbury-avenue, London, W.
Webb, Godfrey, 13, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Wedd, N, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Welldon, Rev. J. E. C, M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Wells, Edmund P., C.E., 26, Cambridge-gardens, N. Kensington, W.
Wemyss, Miss A., Washwell House, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Westlake, Ernest, F.G.S., 2, Ridgeway-road, Redhill.
Whately, Mrs. Henry, 14, Campden House-road, Kensington, W.
Wherry, G. E., F.R.C.S., Corpus-buildings, Cambridge.
Whishaw, Mrs. Berhnard, 27, Upper Bedford-place, W.C.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
Whitear, Rev. W., B.A., 107, Florence-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Whitehead, John, Esplanade, Guernsey.
Wigan, W. L., Larkfield, near Maidstone.
Wilde, Mrs. Oscar, 16, Tite-street, Chelsea, S.W.
Willan, Miss Florence M., 50, Weymouth-street, Portland-place, W„
Willard, Miss Frances E., The Cottage, Reigate.
Willett, Mrs., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 9, Upper Beulah-hill, Upper Norwood.S.E.
Williams, Rev. Nelson G.,M.A.,Ketteringham,Wymondhani, Norfolk.
Williams, Miss S., The Reservoir, Edgbaston, near Birmingham.
Willmott, Miss R., Warley Place, Great Warley, Essex.
Wilson, David H., M.A., Dunridge, West Hill, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Wilson, Herbert W., The Woodlands, Athlone.
Windeyer,Thr Hon. W. C. Justice, Supreme Court, Sydney, Australia.
List of Members and Associates. 393:
Wingfield, Mes. Edward, 40, Albion-street, Hyde Park, W.
Wingfield, H. E., M.A., 42, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
*Wingfield, Mrs., Belvidere Place, Church-road, "Wimbledon.
Wisden, Lieut. Thomas F. M., Broadwater, near Worthing.
Witherby, Arthur George, B.A., 117a, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Withers, J. J.,B.A., 2, Museum Chambers, Bury-st.,Bloomsbury, W.C.
Wittig, Gregor C, 2, Kornerstrasse, Leipzig.
Woeikow, Alexis, Moika 28, St. Petersburg.
Wood, Rev. Canon, M.A., Newent Rectory, Gloucestershire.
Woodhouse, G. H., Heath Bank, Bolton.
Wbodruffe, Miss Adelaide, c/o National Provincial Bank of Eng
land, 88, Cromwell-road, S.W.
Wright, Mrs. Almroth E., Oakhurst, Netley, Hants.
Wright, Arthur J., M.A., Kensington Palace Mansions, London,W.
Wyld, George, M.D., Fieldhead, Wimbledon Park, S.W.
Wyndham, Hon. Percy, 44, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Yearsley, P. Macleod, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Chalk-hill House, Kings-
bury-Neasden, N.W.
Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 32a, Orchard-street, London, W.
Young, Rev. Charles John, F.R.A.S., Stafford-place, Halifax.
Young, Professor William H., Columbus, Ohio, U.SA.
N.B.—Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
change of address to the Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham-street, Adelphi,.
London, W.C.
394 List of Members and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
(December 31st, 1893.)
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
All Addresses are " U.S.A." except when another Country is named.
Abbey, Charlotte L., M.D., 717, Franklin-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Adams, Robert C, 45, Metcalfe-street, Montreal, Canada.
Albery, Mrs. H. M. L., Colusa, Colusa Co., Cal.
—Albree, John, Junr., 56, Bedford-street, Boston, Mass.
Albree, Joseph, 20, Market-street, Allegheny, Pa.
Alden, F. E., Vandergrift Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Alexander, Don, 513, McCallie-avenue, Chattanooga, Tenu.
♦Alexander, Mrs. Kezia E., Birmingham, Mich.
Allen, Prof. J., Univ. of City of N.Y.,Washington-sq.,New York, N.Y.
Allen, Rev. M. Theresa, Liberal, Mo.
Allino, Joseph T., 72, Oxford-street, Rochester, N.Y.
Almy, Francis, Buffalo, N.Y.
Ames, Mrs. Joseph B., 5, Richter-terrace, Brookline, Mass.
Andrew, Miss Elizabeth L., Old Colony Hill, Hingham, Mass.
Annes, A. L., Wansan, Wis.
Arnold, J. N., 19, College-street, Providence, R.T.
Auel, Mrs. C, 65, Lefferts-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Austen, Mrs. George, Morris Plains, New Jersey.
Avery, Miss M. H.,137, Academy-st., Poughkeepsie, New York, N.Y.
Ayer, J. C, 68, West 91st-street, New York, N.Y.
Ayers, George D., Maiden, Mass.
Baker, Alfred L., 2,729, Prairie avenue, Chicago, 111.
Baker, Dr. Smith, Winston-building, Utica, N.Y.
Baldwin, Henry C, 1729, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Bai.lou, Mrs. M. D. B., 5,558, Drexel-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Bancroft, Mrs. John C, 61, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Baunes, W. A., New Madrid, Mo.
List of Members and Associates. 395
Barb, James M., c/o Institute of the City and Guilds of London,
Central Institute, Exhibition-road, London, S.W.
Barrows, C. M., Walnut-street, Brookline, Mass.
Bartlett, James W., 211, Central-avenue, Dover, N.H.
Beale, C. W., Arden, North Carolina.
Beam, Mrs. John V., Jr., 10, West 30th-street, New York, N.Y.
Belden, Mrs. Amanda, 4,726, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, III.
Bigelow, Dr. W. S., 60, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Blackford, A., 322, South Main-street, Findlay, Ohio.
Blackmar, Paul, 40G, Lumber Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
Blake, Francis, Keowaydin, Weston, Auburndale, P.O., Mass.
Blodgett, C.j M.D., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Blodgett. Mrs., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass. •
Boardman, W. F., Department of the Interior, Ottawa, Canada.
Boon, Mrs. E. G., Villa de la Grazia, Alassio, Riviera di Ponenta,
Italy.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 166, Macon-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Bowditch, C. P., 28, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Bowditch, Professor H. P., Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.
Bradley, Miss A. A., 179, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Braggiotti, Isidore, 208, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Breed, Stepiien A., 17, St. James'-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Briggs, Dr. E. C, 125, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass,
Brimmer, Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Brimmer, Mrs. Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama.
Brooks, Dr. F. D., 524, Van Buren-street, Milwaukee, Wis.
Brooks, Henry, 15, Milk-street, Boston, Mass.
Brown, Alfred S., 195, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Buown, Delass S., 309, Main-street, Peoria, 111.
Browne, G. H., 16, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Browne, Mrs. L. Andrews, 131, Sargent street, Newton, Mass.
Brush, Miss Helen C, 71, West 47th-street, New York, N.Y.
Bryan, W., c/o Messrs. Bottler Bros., Main-street, Houston, Texas.
Buffett, Dr. E. P., 520, Bergen-avenue, Jersey City Heights, N. J.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Bundy, Mrs. Mary E., 582, La Salle-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Burge, Miss Marie L., 132, Montague-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Butler, Miss Virginia, Stockbridge, Mass.
Carey, A. A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carey, Mrs. A. A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carnochan, Gouverneur M., 46, Exchange-place, New York, N.Y.
Carpenter, Frank B., Tiffany Building, 337, 4th-avenue, New York.
Carpenter, Franklin R., M.A., Ph.D., Deadwood, South Dakota.
2 d
396 List of Members and Associates.
Carpenter, Mrs. Franklin R., Deadwood, South Dakota.
Carr, Lucien, 163, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Carr, Robert S., Hamilton, Ohio.
Casey, Theodore B., Minneapolis, Minn.
Catlin, Captain R., 1,428, Euclid-place, Washington, D.C.
Caulkins, Silas, Soldiers' Home, San Bernardino, California.
Chapin, F. W., M.D., Hot Springs, Virginia.
Chapman, Mrs. J. J., 327, West 82nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Cheesman, Dr. W. S., 22, William-street, Auburn, N.Y.
Cheney, Dr. Fred. E., Hotel Bristol, Boston, Mass.
Cheney, W. T., 220, Broad-street, Rome, Georgia.
CaENOWETh, Mrs. C. Van D., 64, East 86th-street, New York, N.Y.
ChiCk, Frank W., Madrid, Franklin Co., Maine.
Clarke, J. E, Ph.D., 211, South 43rd-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Claypole, Professor E. W., 603, Buchtel-avenue, Akron, Ohio.
Cleaves, N. Porter, 29, India-street, Boston, Mass.
Clough, Albert L., Box 114, Manchester, N.H.
Cobb, Mrs. Francis D-, Barnstaple, Mass.
Cochran, Mrs. A. P., care of Messrs. Todd, Donigan Iron Co.,
Louisville, Ky.
Coffin, Charles A., 109, Nahant-street, Lynn, Mass.
Coffin, C. P., 209, Washington-street, Room 3, Boston, Mass.
ColSON, W. A., Cor. Buckner-avenue and Bluff-street, Peoria, 111.
Compton, Prof. Elias, Wooster University, Wooster, Ohio.
Comstock, C- B., 39, Whitehall-street, New York, N.Y.
Cook, Mrs. Ellen K., 220, Main-street, Davenport, Iowa.
Cook, George C, 1,734, Cambridge-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Coonley, Mrs. John C, 620, Division-street, Chicago, 111.
Cooper, James, P.O. Box 1,942, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Cope, Professor Edward D., 2,102, Pine-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Corning, Mrs. M. S., Oxford, Maine.
Corser, Mrs. E. S., 1,819, Vine-place, Minneapolis, Minn.
Cory, C. B., 8, Arlington-street, Boston, Mass.
Cotton, Mary II., M.D., 114, West 123rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Cowles, Dr. E., McLean Asylum, Somerville, Mass.
Crafts, James M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Crafts, Mrs. J. M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Craig, JohN W., Box 291, San Bernardino, Cal.
Crepin, Ernest E., 4,726, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Critchlow, E. B., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Crocker. Mrs. F. E., P. O. Box 59, Columbus Junction, Iowa.
Crosby, Mrs. Eleanor F., Gardner-road, Brookline, Mass.
Crosby, Professor W. O., Society Natural History, Boston, Mass.
Croswell, James G., 17, West 44th-street, New York, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates 3D7
Crothers, Dr. T. D., Walnut Lodge, Hartford, Conn.
Cunningham, S. A., Altoona, Florida.
Curran, Richard L., 219, Genesee-street, Utica, N.Y.
Curtis, W. E., H, West 20th-street, New York, N.Y.
Gushing, Mrs. F. W., Higldand Park, 111.
Cutler, Miss Anna A., M.D., 284, Orange-street, New Haven, Conn.
Dailey, Judge Abram H., 16, Court-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Darrow, Clarence S., 3,559, Vernon-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Davidson, Thomas, Prof., 239, West 105th-street, New York, N.Y.
Davis, Samuel G., 120, Highland-street, Roxbury, Mass.
Dawbabn, Robert H. M., M.D., 105, W. 74th-st., New York, N.Y.
Delabarre, Prof. G. B., 9, Arlington-avenue, Providence, R.I.
Delano, Mrs. Lorin F., 112, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Dexter, Mrs. George, Egmont-street, Brookline, Mass.
Dickey, Calvin, M.A., Room 22, 94, Washington-street, Chicago, 111.
Dike, Miss Florence B., 207, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Dimmock, George, P. O. Box 15, Canobie Lake, N.H.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass.
Dodge, J. T., 340, West Washington-avenue, Madison, Wis.
Dole, Nathan H., " Hedgecote," Glen-road, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Donald, Rev. Dr. E. Winchester, Trinity Church, Boston, Mass.
Dorr, Mrs. C. II., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dorr, George B., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Doty, Asa C, Box 523, Cuba, N.Y.
Dow, Alexander, 331, West 85th-street, New York, N.Y.
Drown, T. Pickering, 351, Congress-street, Boston, Mass.
Duncan, W. A., Ph.D., Syracuse, N.Y.
Dunham, Miss E. L., 37, East 36th street, New York, N.Y.
Dunham, Dr. W. R., Stoneham, Mass.
Dwight, Mrs. James, Stockbridge, Mass.
Edmunds, Albert J., c/o Historical Society of Penna, 1,300, Locust-
street, Philadelphia.
Edmunds, Miss L., c/o R. Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Edwards, Mrs. Mary H., 161, Main-street, Keene, N.H.
Ellis, Miss Lucy, 330, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Errani, Mrs. Charlotte, 118, East 26th-street, New York, N.Y.
Esterly, Mrs. G. W., 104, Lumber Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
Esty, Professor William C, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Evans, Miss Ella K., 186, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Frederick, Junr., Newark Daily Advertiser, Newark, N.J.
Evans, Mrs. Glendower, 12, Otis-place, Boston, Mass.
Everett, Professor C. C, 23, Berkeley-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Everett, Torrey, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
Farmer, Miss Sarah J., Eliot, Maine.
2 d 2
398 List of Members and Associates.
Fayes, Prof. Cms., LL.D., 150, East 45th-street, New York, N.Y.
Felton, Thomas C, Hotel Ludlow, Boston, Mass.
Ferguson, J. H., Talmage, Nebraska.
Fields, Mrs. James T., 148, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Fillebrown, Thos., M.D., D.M.D., 264, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Fiske, Rev. Richmond, D.D., 251, Lexington-st., East Boston, Mass.
Fluhreh, Rev. Charles, D.D., Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Forbes, John M., Milton, Mass.
Forbes, W. H., 181, Devonshire-street, Boston, Mass.
Ford, Austin E., Freeman's Journal, 11, Park-row, New York, N.Y.
Ford, Professor Darius R., D.D., Elmira College, New York, N.Y.
Foster, Mrs. Wm., 82, Huntington-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Frothingham, O. B., 118, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
FullertOtl, C. W., 94, Dearborn-street, Chicago, 111.
Fullerton, Professor G. S., 4,116, Spruce-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Gage, Lyman J., 470, North State-street, Chicago, 111.
Gale, Harlow S., 43, Biilow-strasse, Berlin.
Gardiner, Dr. Edward G., Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 23, Craft's-avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Gardner, Mrs. John L., 152, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Genung, Prof. J. Franklin, Ph.D., Amherst, Mass.
Gerrish, Dr. F. H., 675, Congress-street, Portland, Maine.
Gill, Wm. Fearing, 3, East 86th-street, New York, N.Y.
Gilman, Benjamin I., Oread-street, Worcester, Mass.
Gleason, Adele A., M.D., The Sanitarium, Elmira, N.Y.
Goddard, George A., 1, Mount Vernon-place, Boston, Mass.
Goddard, Mrs. Moses, 25, Brown-street, Providence, R.I.
Goodale, Henry Sterling, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Goodnow, H. R., 32, llemsen-street, Brooklyn, New York.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederick, 250, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Goodwin, W. H., Junr., Sioux City, Iowa.
Gray, Miss Agnes W., 1, Berkeley-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Gray, Mrs. John C, 176, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Greeley, Mrs. C. A., Nashua, Iowa.
Green, Mrs. Richmond, Eastlmmpton, Mass.
Greene, Miss, Hotel Brunswick, New York, N.Y.
Gridley, J. N., Virginia, 111.
Griffin, Rev. 11. A., Columbus-avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Griffing, Mrs. C. R., 729, Amsterdam-avenue, New York, NY.
Groot, Mrs. W. de, c/o Mrs. J. de F. Windle, South-st., Stamford, Conn.
Grover, Rev. G. W., 22, Temple-street, Nashua, New Hampshire.
Grower, George G., Ansonia Brass and Copper Co., Ansonia, Conn.
Hale, George S., 10, Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.
Hall, Hon. G. E., Consulat Imperial de Turquie, San Francisco, Cal.
List of Members and Associates. 399
Hall, Professor James, New York State Museum, Albany, N.Y.
Hall, Dr. T. P., Tabor, Fremont Co., Iowa.
Hamblet, Eugene, P. O. Box 12, Dracut, Mass.
Hamilton, C. M., 50, Main-street, Salamanca, N.Y.
Hansen, Otto R., 649, Cass-street, Milwaukee, Wis.
Habdaway, W. A., M.D., 2,710, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Harden, Judge William D., Savannah, Georgia.
Harris, Rev. J.A.,D.D., St. Paul's Rectory, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.
Harris, J ohn J., St. Louis Insane Asylum, St. Louis, Mo.
Harris, William T., LL.D., 914, 23rd-street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Hartzell, T, S., 73, Navarre-street, Canton, Ohio.
Harwood, C. H, M.D., 208, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Hawkins, William M., 6, Coit Block, West Swan-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Haworth, George D., Decatur, 111.
Haynes, Henry W., 239, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Haywarb, Alvinza, 224, California-street, San Francisco, Cal.
Heard, John, Juxr., c/o Messrs. Baring &, Co., London, England.
Hedges, Mrs. Sidney M., 76, Highland-street, Roxbury, Mass.
Heilner, Rev. S. A., D.D., 813, South 3rd-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hemenway, Augustus, Readville, Mass.
Heyer, George W., 619, Main-street, Houston, Texas.
Heywood, Charles, Gardner, Mass.
Hicks, Benj. D., Old Westbury, Queen's Co., N.Y,
Hiles, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Hill, Mrs. A. S., 19, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Hoffman, Professor F. S., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.
Hogg, Mrs. John, 50, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Holbrook, Levi, P. O. Box 536, New York, N.Y.
Holbrook, Dr. M. L., 46, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Holladay, Prof. Waller, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, 112, West 118th-st., New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Rev. S. V. V., 1,262, New Hampshire Ave., Washington, D.C
Holt, Henry, 29, West 23rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Holt, L. Emmett, M.D., 15, East 54th-street, New York, N.Y.
Hommel, P. A., 794, 2nd-avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.
Hooper, Miss E. R., 141, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
HoTchkiss, Miss Jeannie E., M.A.,Rathbun House,Elmira, NewYork.
Hoyle, W., P. O. Box 407, Los Angeles, Cal.
Hubbard, Robert M., 322, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Hudson, Thomson Jay, 10, Ninth-street, S.E., Washington, D.C.
Hudson, Woodward, Concord, Mass.
Hull, Miss P. C, 22, John-street, Providence, R.I.
Hunt, Chas. R., M.D., 262, Union-street, Bedford, Mass.
400 Lid of Members and Associates.
Hurley, A.M., cornerof First and Monmouth-sts.,Indepoadeace,Oregoi».
Huse, Wm., Ponca, Dixon Co., Nebraska.
Hutchinson, Dr. Mahlon, 100, State-street, Chicago, 111.
Hyslof, Professor J. H., Columbia College, New York, N.Y.
Jackson, Mrs. Flora J., 558, Milwaukee-street, Milwaukee, Wis.
James, Mrs. C. E. L., c/o Bleecher Luce, 10th and Chestnut-streets„
Port Smith, Ark.
James, Dr. F. H., 2,627, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
James, Professor William, 95, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
January, Mrs. J. Lindell, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley ife Co., London*.
Jayne, H. La Barre, 505, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass.
Jenks, Mrs. P. A., 290, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Jewett, Miss S. O., South Berwick, Maine.
Johnson, Charles R., Box 492, 405, Main-street, Worcester, Mass.
Johnson, Professor Roger B., Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.
Johnson, Thomas M., Osceola, St. Clair Co., Mo.
Joline, Mrs. Adrian H., 1, West 72nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Jones, Geo. H., 561, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Jones, Miss Theresa E., South Evanston, 111.
Joslyn, John R., 208, E. Water-street, Elmira, N.Y.
Judah, J. M., 545, Shelby-street, Memphis, Tenn.
Kehew, Mrs. William B., 317, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Kelly, W. C, Shelbyville, 111.
Kempton, Charles W., 61, Oro Blanco, Pima Co., Arizona.
Kerlin, Isaac N., M.D., Elwyn, Delaware Co., Pa.
Kibbii, A. B., M.D., 326, Bailey-building, Seattle, Washington.
Kidd, G. W., 853, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Kilner, Mrs. S. E, 333, West 78th-street, New York, N.Y.
Kimball, Miss Hannah P., 325, Conimonwealth-ave., Boston, Mas3.
King, J. Stebbins, M.D., Syndicate Block, Decatur, 111.
Knowles, Rev. Edward R., 30, Institute-road, Worcester, Mass.
Kopta, Madame Flora P., Gut Poduaok in Podmok, Post Shiitten-
hofen, Bohemia.
Krekel, Mrs. M.P., 802, East llth-street, Kansas City, Mo.
Kuhn, Hamilton, 36, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Kuhn, Mrs. Hartman, 36, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lamont, Robert, 182, Willoughby-avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Lang, B. J., 8, Brimmer-street, Boston, Mass.
Langley, Professor S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Latham, Miss V. A., B.Sc., 58, East University-ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.
Lathrof, John, 10, Gloucester-street, Boston, Mass.
Lawrence, Mrs. Amory A., 59, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 142, East 18th-street, New York, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates. 401
Lee, Mrs. M. H., 21, Chauncey-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Leonard, Thomas, 628, 22nd-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Leonhardt, J. S., M.Sc., M.D., 1,427, O-street, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Leubuscher, A. L., 76, Nassau-street, New York, N.Y.
Lewis, P. M., M.D., Lecompton, Kansas.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine.
Librarian, Cassadaga Lake Library Association, Lily Dale, N.Y.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
Librarian, Cutting's Free Library, Lunenburgh, Vermont.
Librarian, Denver Public Library, Denver, Colo.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich.
Librarian, Haverhill Public Library, Haverhill, Mass.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass.
Librarian, Michigan State Library, Lansing, Mich.
Librarian, University Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Librarian, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111.
Librarian, Rochester Theological Seminary, Rochester, New York,N.Y.
Librarian, San Francisco Free Public Library, San Francisco, Cal.
Librarian, (Springfield) City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
Lippitt, General Francis J., 9, Blake-row, U.S. Naval Academy,
Annapolis, Indiana.
Littlefield,J.,c/o S. S.White i Co., 12th & Chestnufc-sts., Philadelphia.
Lockwood, Colonel J. S., 146, Franklin-street, Boston, Mass.
Lodge, Mrs. John E., 31, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Logan, W. S., 58, William-street, New York, N.Y.
Lombardi, C, 1,314, Rusk-avenue, Houston, Texas.
Long, George E., Jos. Dixon Crucible Company, Jersey City, N.J.
Long, Rev. J. D., Babylon, Long Island, New York.
Lounsberry, C. A., Globe Office, St. Paul, Minn.
Lukens, Dr. Anna, 1,068, Lexington-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Lyman, Joseph B., University-bldgs., Washington-sq., E., New York.
Macdonald, Dr. R. C, 34, Parcnenter-street, Boston, Mass.
MacDonough, Thomas B., West End, Long Branch, N.J.
Macleod, Miss Gertrude E., 1, Berkeley-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Mallery, Mrs. Garrick, 1,323, N.-st., N.W., Washington, D.C.
Manning, F. J. H, 28J, North Front-street, Portland, Oregon.
Marshall, Rev. A. A., D.D., Crystal Springs, Georgia.
Marshall, Henry R., Macintyre Bg., 874, Broadway, New York,N.Y.
Marvin, Walter T., 17, Lichtenhainer-strasse, Jena, Germany.
Mason, Miss Ellen F., 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, Miss Ida, 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, H. L., 39, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
402 List of Members and Associates.
Mason, R. Osgood, M.D., 348, West 58th-street, New York, N.Y.
Mather, Enoch, M.D., Ph.D., LL.D., 124, Hamilton-avenue,
Patterson, N.J.
McAimiun, James, 3,848, Lake-avenue, Chicago, 111.
McClelland, Major G. P., Davenport, Iowa.
McCune, Dr. Olive F., 53, Orange-street, Brooklyn, New York, N.Y.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C, 160, Stirling-place, Brooklyn, New York, N.Y.
McGee, W. J., U.S. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.
McHenry, Mrs. J. Howard, Pikesville, Balto. Co., Maryland.
McIlwraith, H. P., Muskegon, Mich.
McVicker, J. H., McVicker's Theatre, Chicago, 111.
Mendenhall, Mrs. E. R., Duluth, Minn.
Mendenhall, Nereus, M.D., Guilford College, Guilford Co., N.C.
Metcalf, Mrs. I. H., 81, Angell-street, Providence, R.I.
Miller, Mrs. G. S., Peterborough, Madison Co., N.Y.
Millet, Josiaii B., 150, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Milliken, George, 3,614, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Minot, Professor Charles S., 22, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Minturn, Miss, 109, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Mitchell, James, Stock Exchange, New York, N.Y.
Morgan, W. E., M.D., 34, East 29th-street, Chicago, 111.
Moth, M. J., M.D., 3438, Indiana-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Myers, W. H., M.D., 15, West Wayne-street, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Nagles, Miss Maria K., 1,214, Walnut-street, Phila., Pa.
Nevins, Miss Anna K. 20, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Newbold, Wm. Romaine, Ph.D., 4,116, Spruce-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Newcomb, C. A., 1,145, Woodward-avenue, Detroit, Mich.
Newcomb, Prof. Simon, Washington, D.C.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, 781, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Ney, G. S., M.D., 27, Adams-avenue East, Detroit, Michigan.
Nichols, Miss A. B., 92, La Salle-strect, Chicago, 111.
Nims, F. A., Muskegon, Mich.
Noble, Louis Spencer, Leadville, Colo.
Norbury, Miss Mary A., 206, West 71st-strcet, New York, N.Y.
Norris, Hon. C. H., Marion, Marion Co., Ohio.
Nunn, Dr. Richard J., 119J, York-street, Savannah, Georgia.
Nye, William B , Columbia College, New York, N.Y.
Oldham, F. F., Blymyer Building, opp. Post Office, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Oliver, George, S. J., Santa Barbara, Cal.
Ormsby, George F, 113, Devonshire-street, Boston, Mass.
Osborn, General F. A., 236, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Palmer, Hon. Thomas W., 1,040, Woodward-ave., Detroit, Mich.
Park, Dr. Roswell, 510, Delaware avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Parke, Miss M. P., 117, West 49th-street, New York, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates. 403
Parker, William L., 339, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Parkman, Miss M. R., Hotel Huntington, Huntington-ave.,Boston, Mass.
Parsons, A. J., 1,818, N-street, Washington, D.C.
Parsons, John E., M.D., 6, Grove-street, Ayer, Mass.
Peabody, John E., 183, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Peckham, Db. Grace, 25, Madison-avenue, New York, NY.
Pedioo, Dr. Lewis G., Lock Box 259, Roanoke, Virginia.
Pellew, Mrs. Henry E., 1,637, Massachusetts-ave., Washington, D.C.
Pendleton, Miss, 1,522, Locust-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Penfield, Sophia, M.D., Danbury, Conn.
Perkins, Mrs. A. T., 112, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Perkins, Mrs. Charles E., 223, Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass.
Perkins, Mrs. E. H., 5, East 40th-street, New York, N.Y.
Perkins, Franklin R., 294, Linwood-avenue, Buffalo.. N.Y.
Peerin, Mrs. E. O., Stanton, Florida.
Perry, John G., M.D., 48, East 34th-street, New York, N.Y.
Perry, Thos. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Peters, E. T., Box 265, Washington, D.C.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., Forest Hill-street, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Peterson, Dr. Frederick, 201, West 54th-street, New York, N.Y.
Phillips, Mrs. J. C, Junr., 299, Berkeley-street, Boston, Mass.
Platt, J. C, 333-335, Fourth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Plumb, D. S., 24, Boudinot-street, Newark, N.J.
Plummer, J. W., 200, Randolph-street, Chicago, 111.
Preston, Mrs. William G., Hotel Berkeley, Boston, Mass.
Prince, Dr. Morton, 71, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Pumpelly, Raphael, Bainbridge, Georgia.
Putnam, Dr. Charles P., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Miss Annie C, 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, George, 50, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. James J., 106, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass.
Quincy, Josiah P., 82, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Quirk, Charles H, M.D., c/o Messrs. Payton and Co., 765, Calle
Moreno, Boenos Ayres, South America.
Raine, R. J., Carleton-place, Ontario, Canada.
Rand, Mrs. J. L., 49, Kirkland-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Randall, Herbert, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Ranney, E. H., Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Ransom, Frank H., 137, Main-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Ransom, Paul C, 1,298, Main-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Raymond, Mrs. Henry E., Carey-road, Brookline, Mass.
Rayson, Miss Amy, B.A., 34, Gramercy-park, New York, N.Y.
404 List of Members and Associates.
Reece, Mrs- Lucy, 110, Osborne-street, La Porte, Ind.
*Rees, Mrs. Janet E. Ruutz, Wayside, Scarsdale, New York, N.Y.
Remer, William A., Deadwood, South Dakota.
Reynolds, Edward, M.D., 130, Marlboroughstreet, Boston, Mass.
Reynolds, Roth, Lock Box 32, Gainesville, Florida.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2, Wellington-terrace, Brookline, Mass.
Richardson, Mrs. Abby S., 256, West lOOth-street, New York, N.Y.
Richardson, Charles, 608, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Richardson, M. T., Ridgcwood, New Jersey.
Richardson, Dr. W. L, 225, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Ricker, James W., City Collector, City Hall, Boston, Mass.
Robbins, Miss A. M., 7, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Robbins, Miss H. L., 116, West 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Rodman, Miss Emma, 174, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Rolfe, Alfred G., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
Ropes, John C, 99, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Rotch, Miss Joanna, Milton, Mass.
Royce, Professor Josiah, 103, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Rumsey, Mrs. B. C, cor. Delaware-ave. and Tracey-st., Buffalo, N.Y.
Russell, David, Houston, Texas.
Salter, W. M., -Silver Lake, N.H.
Sargent, Mrs. Winthrof, 207, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Savage, Rev. M. J., Pembroke-street, Boston, Mass.
Savage, Philip H., 28, Holyoke House, Cambridge, Mass.
Sawyer, Hon. Chas. H., Dover, New Hampshire.
Sawyer, G. C, Utica Academy, Utica, N.Y.
Sawyer, Roswell D., 58, AVest 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Schenck, Miss Ida Z., 114, East 19th-street, New York, N.Y.
Schieffelin, Mrs. W. H., 242, East 15th-street, New York, N.Y.
Schiller, Prof. C, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
Schofield, Edwin, 1,825, Ontario-street, Tioga, Philadelphia, Pa.
Scott, Mrs. L., The Amidon, 83rd-street, and Boulevard, New York.
Scudder, Samuel H., Cambridge, Mass.
Scull, Mrs. H., The Arizona, 42nd-st. and Greenwood-ave., Chicago, 111.
Sears, John D., Upper Sandusky, Ohio.
ShAw, Miss Emma G., c/o J. Eastman Chase, Pocasset, Mass.
Shaw, Mrs. G. H., 23, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Shaw, Mrs. Quincy A., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Shed, Z., 832, 17th-street, Denver, Colorado.
Sheets, John C, Cincinnati Sanatorium, College Hill, Ohio.
Sherman, Mrs. B. W., Riverside, Cook County, 111.
SniMMin, Miss Blanche, 229, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Shinn, Miss Hattie A., Room 46, 115, Monroe-street, Chicago, 111.
♦ShuFElDT, Dr. R. W., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
List of Members and Associates. 405.
Shultz, Rev. N., Box 583, San Antonio, Texas.
Sintenis, E. H., P. O. Box 115, Abilene, Texas.
Smith, Francis, Muskegon, Mich.
Smith, George R., M.D., Dover, New Hampshire.
Smith, Horace J., 6, East Penn., Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, N.Y.
Smith, William Hawley, Peoria, 111.
Smith, W. Lincoln, Inst, of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Smith, Winfield, 24, Hathaway-block, Milwaukee, Wis.
Stansell, Mrs. E. T., 75, La Casa, Denver, Colo.
Stebbins, Walter G., City Hospital, Boston, Mass.
Steedman, J. G. W., A.M., M.D., 2,803, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Steffens, J. L., Credit Lyonnais, Paris, France.
Stillmann, Mrs. W. 0., 287, State-street, Albany, N.Y.
Stilwell, Mary H., D.D.S., 1,300, Arch-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Stockton, John P., Junr., Highwood, Bergen Co., N.J.
Stokes, J. N. P., 229, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Stone, Charles W., G8, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Stone, Mrs. Richard, Junr., 18, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Storer, Albert, 40, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Strauss, Albert, 124, West 97th-street, New York, N.Y.
Street, Miss Ida M., 1,923, Dodge-street, Omaha, Neb.
Strong, Charles A., M.D., 5,516, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Sturgis, Chas. Russell, 63, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sumner, Dr. A. M., 336, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sutherland, J. G., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Swift, William H., Wilmington, Delaware.
Talbot, Edward A., 2, Elmo-street, Dorchester, Mass.
Tappan, Miss M. A., 247, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Taylor, Edward Wyllys, M.D., Mont Clair, N.J.
Taylor, Fredk., 174, School-street, Lowell, Mass.
Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., 305, West 76th-street, New York, N.Y.
Thaw, Mrs. A. Blair, 305, West 76th-street, New York, N.Y.
Thomson, Dr. W., 1,426, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thorndike, S. Lothrop, 2, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Thorpe, Joseph G., Junr., 115, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Tickell, I. A. Arscott, The Bayhead, Narcoossee, Florida.
Tighe,Judge J. G., Germanica Bdg., 375-379, Fulton-st., Brooklyn, N.Y.
Tilton, Howard W., 12, Pearl-street, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
Totten, Mrs. Enoch, 1,708, I-street,Washington, D.C.
Towner, Judge J. W., Santa Ana, California.
Toy, Professor C. H., 7, Lowell-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Turnbull, Miss K. E., 113, East 39th-street, New York, N.Y.
Turner, Miss Mary J., 11, Faxon-avenue, Quincy, Mass.
40G List of Members and Associates.
Tutton, Mrs. Sara, 2,318, Jay-street, Denver, Colorado.
Tweedy, Edmund, Newport, Rhode Island.
Tyler, J. C, Magnolia-avenue, cor. Olive-street, Knoxville, Tenn.
Tyson, Mrs. George, 311, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Van Allen, Wm. H., St. John's School, 34, Varick-st., New York, N.Y.
Van Horn, M. L., 104, West 29th-street, New York, N.Y.
Van Norden, Rev. C, D.D., LL.D., Auburn, California.
Van Norden, Theodore L., 16, West 48th-street, New York, N.Y.
Van Norden, Warner M., 16, West 48th-street, New York, N.Y.
Van Slyke, J. M., 23, North Pinckney-street, Madison, Wis.
Vaughan, Miss Virginia, 226, West 34th-street, New York, N.Y.
Viele, Herman K., 1,722, Connecticut-avenue, Washington, D.C.
Wade, Miss Julia Frances, Box 268, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Wait, Marshall, 5,144, Madison-avenue, Hyde Park, Ciiicago, 111.
Wake, C. Staniland, 4,403, State-street, Chicago, 111.
Ward, W. E., Port Chester, N.Y.
Warren, Dr. J. W., Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Waters, Miss Mabel, 360, First-street, Elmira, New York, N.Y.
Watson, Mrs. F. S., 263, Clarendon-street, Boston, Mass.
Watson, Professor William, 107, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Watson, Dr. William H., 720, Genesee-street, Utica, N.Y.
Watts, H. M., " The Press," Philadelphia, Pa.
Webb, Mrs., 34, Chestnut-street, Salem, Mass.
Webster, David L., 332, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Westbrook, Dr. R. B., 1,707, Oxford-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wheeler, Mrs. Stephen, cor. 6th and Ash-streets, Fort Smith, Ark.
Wheeler, William, Concord, Mass.
Wherrell, John, M.D., 228, North Mill-street, Kansas City, Kansas.
Whipple, L. E., 328, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
White, Professor C. J., 36. Weld Hall, Cambridge, Mass.
White, Professor Frances E. ,1,717, Master-sfc., Philadelphia, Pa.
White, Mrs. Harriet B., 49, East 73rd-street, New York, N.Y.
White, Henry G., 32, Irving-place, Buffalo, N.Y.
White, James T., 765, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
White, J. T., M.D., Room 206, Pioneer-bdg., Seattle, Washington, D.C.
Whiteside, Miss H., c/o A. A. Carey, 29, Fairfield-st., Boston, Mass.
Whitman, Mrs. Henry, 77, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Whiton, Rev. James M., Ph.D., 18, West 9th-street, New York, N.Y.
Wilkins, Miss F. A., c/o G. A. Dewey, 146, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Williams, Professor H. H., University of N.C., Chapel Hill, N.C
WILLiAMs, Mrs. S. C, 37, East 50th-street, New York, N.Y.
Wilmarth, Mrs. Mary H., The Auditorium, Chicago, 111.
Wilson, Mrs. John C, Framingham, Mass.
Wilson, Tom L., Room 10, Chopin Block, Buffalo, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates.
♦Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Carl-street, W. Roxbury, Mass.
Winter, Mrs.W., 17, 3rd-ave., New Brighton, Staten Island, New York.
Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 173, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Woodman, Walter, M.D., Hubbard-park, Cambridge, Mass.
Wright, James A., 1,127, Sherbrook-street, Montreal, Canada.
Wright, Dr. J. P., 36, New Montgomery-street, San Francisco, Cal.
Wyatt, Melvyn H., Sparkill, Rockland County, N.Y.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Wynne, Mrs. M. Y., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Yates, W., 2,937, Indiana-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Zvg, C, P.O. Box 1,053, Sable lion Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PROCEEDINGS OF
IETY FOR PSYCHICAL EESEAH
Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, Mid the Miraolea of Loordea, By
A. T. Myers, M.D., F.R.C.r., and F. W. H. Myers . 1.
C,
June, 1893. Thick
CONTENTS.
isness. By VaSDjOao W. H. Myers.
echanism of Hystoria .
AutomatiHUi .....
Dr. Moll's "Rapport in tier Ilypuose." By Walter
lidkunz's " Psyoholoino der Suggestion."
Professor Broffcrio's "Per lo Spiritismo." By Waltm:
riunliuriin's "Spiritism" o Telopatia." By H.
S' PAUL TJBENOH TRUBNER & CO., Limite
NOTICE.
Any well.attested information, bearing on the various s
which are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully r»
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the So*
It is hoped that Members and Associates in different part;
country, who are willing to take an active part in the v
researches, will put themselves m communication with
■
Secretaries, F. W. H. Myers, Esq., Leckhanipton House, Cain
or Frank Podmore, Esq., 32, Well Walk, Hampstead, N.W.
The Assistant-Secretary is at the Rooms of the Society,
Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C., on every week-day, except
day, from 2.30 to 5.30 p.m. At these times Members can
Books from the Library.
GLASS BALLS FOR CRYSTAL-GAZING.
(Mass balls well Buited for experiments in Crystal-gazing
obtained from the Assistant-Secretary of the Society for Ps
Research, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C., in four s
below, postage included :—
No. 1.— 1 J inch diameter, 2s. Gd. On uized stand, in lx>x, 3s,
Noh. 3 and 4 are supplied only with stands and boxes.
bo grateful for accounts of any experiments which may 1
Accounts should be written down at the time, with date *r
PROCEEDINGS OF
'HE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PA('IE
•l29
lteconl of * Mtservatiim-s of Certain Phenomena of Trance—
(8) Parti., by Processor O.'j'. I.o'r*;E.' F. li!s. .' ', '.
(4) Imlox to In-iiig in Parts I. ami II. sitecially difficult to
(, \ plain by direct Thou^ht-Transference. By Professor
(o) Part IIL, by Professor William James, of Harvard
University 656
poood A.I Interim Report on the Ceoaaa of Haliiieinatioin .
eview of A AksakoiK Animismus ami S]>iriti«mUs. By 1''- W. II.
P
XVIir. Vol VII.—April, 18W,-Price 2a, 6d, r
fUperfmental .Studies in Thought-Transference By Baron von
xperimunu in Automatic Writing. By Thomas Barkwortii
'Z
HI. Record of a HaunSd Hous^By ^iss^R G MoRTOW ' ". ' .
I\ . The Snliliminal Consciousness. By F. \V, H. Myehs
V. Further Information as to Dr. Uaokqian's Experiment* in Clair-
I. Ue
' ?^^^2ui^^imi&M By FrSejuc w! I l'' \lVi'!i''"'. '
Members aud Associates will bo
application to the Assistant-Secretary, 1!
vii ;J
PROCEEDINGS OF
'OR PSYCHICAL ffi
V. Vol. IX. January, 1894. Price 3s. G.I.
CONTENTS.
\\ Antexthesiu. By Puofes.soh William Ramsay, Ph.D.,
-i. r, f,
ulian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. By Bichard
(2) Essay on " Comparative Psychical Research."
atalogue of the Edmund Gurney Library
and Associates of the American Branch
NOTICE.
which are being investigated by the iSoeiety, will be gratefully tveciv
whether from Members, or persons inteniliiig to join the Societ
from others.
It is hoped tlint Members and Associates in different parts ol
country, who are willing to take an active part in the Socj
researches, will put themselves in communication with the
Secretaries, F. W. H. Myers, Esq., Lockhanipton Mouse, Cambr
or Frank Podmore, Esq., 32, Well Walk, Hampstead, N.\\ .
The Assistant-Secretary is at the Rooms of the Society, N...
Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C., on every week-day, except Sat
day, from 2.30 to 5.30 p.m. At these times Members can obto
Books from tho Library.
GLASS BALLS FOR CRYSTAL-GAZING.
obtained from the Assistant-Secretary of the Society for Psj
Research, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C., in four sL
below, postage included :—
No. 1.—1 J inch diameter, 2s. 6d. On ebonized stand, in box,
„
Nob. 3 and 4 are supplied only with stands and Ixoccs.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Leckbampton House, Cambridge, won
grateful for accounts of any experiments which may be tried. Acc
should be written down at the time, with date and signature.
PRICE FIVE SHILLINGS.
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OK
EXPERIMEN TAL PSYCHOLOt i V
SECOND SESSION—LONDON ISOS
PROCEEDINGS OF
HE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sheet of tlie whole Series can be obtained on application to tbe
tary, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C.l
Hallucinations (his second address on this subject) . . 489
. A (iecord of Observations '»i Certain Phenomena of Trance—
(S) rurt. L, by 1'ho'i l ssoR'o. '.r. I.oi>oe.'f.R.'s. '. '. MS
I'art if., T>v Walter Leaf, Litt.D 508
Paet XVI II. Vol. VII.—April, 1891.—l'rice2s. 6d, page
L Experimental Studies in Thought-Tranaferenee. By Babon VON
HI. On the Evidence for Clairvoyance. Parti. By Mlts. H. Siuowick :i'i
IV. Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. By Leon Marillier. . 100
Paet XIX. Vol. VII.-July, 1891.—Price 2s. 6d.
L On Alleged Movements of Objects, without Contact, < >ec
i
me Uecent Thought-Transference Experiments. By Puofessob
n Alleged Movements nf Objects, without Contact, Occurring not
. 298
! 356
Introductory- 82. Some Peculiarities of Out Trance State. §3. Hypo
Si I
V
