{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__anonymous___book_of_visions.pdf","mytitle":"Book Of Visions","mylang":"de"}
l·
1/-vul"j
;.....~"'
THE
BOOK
\
OF VISIONS:
/
BEil'IQ A
TRANSCRIPT OF THE RECORD
or THE
. SECRET THOUGHTS OF A VARIETY OF INDIVIDUALS
WHILE ATTENDING CHURCH.
EXB&ACil'IQ
MEMBERS OF THE CABINET, KEXBEllS OF CONGlllSS, BAl'IKERS,
LA WYERS, EDITORS, KERCHANTS, LADIES, ETC, ETC.,
IN WASHINGTON CITY, BALTIXORE, PBILA•
DELFHIA, NEW YOll:X, LONDON
AND PARIS,
Al.80,
I!'OSTANCES OF THE SEPARATION OF THE SOUL FROM THE
BODY--ONE INDIVIDUAL BEING JUSTIFIED BY
FAITH, AND THE OTHER CONDEMNED.
COllCLUDil'IQ WITH
AN ACCOUNT OF THE INTERMEDIATE ABODE OF DEPARTED
SPIRITS1 AND THEIR HAPPY Oll MISERABLE
CONDITION, AS THEY HAVE
DONE GOOD OR
EVIL. .•
.'.
..
c .' " ... ..
> • • • •
PHILADELFIIfA::; '.·~·.,.,
PUBLISHED BY J. W. MOORE••
1847.
(;S
...
7
THE Nc7/ YORK
Pglffz~~!y
ASTOR, LENOX AND
TILDE~ FOUNDATIOMll
.R i932 L
. -------- ---
- - -
ENTERED according to the Act of Congreu, in the year 1847, by
T. K. 8t P. G. COL LINS,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania•
. ·: .·
.. -..
. .
....
: ·,··,·..
.
...
.:·.
PHILADELPHIA:
T. K. ANI> P. G. COLLINS, PRl:olTEBS.
PREFACE.
Bv day and by night, for years, the idea was
ever present to me, that this world was inhabited
by as many (and perhaps a great many more), im·
mortal spirits, as by mortal men. The idea was
conceived at the bedside of an esteemed friend as
he fell asleep in death. As I witnessed the last
sigh issue from his cold and pallid lips, and while
I secretly supplicated our heavenly Father to re·
ceive his parting soul into the realms of blissful
and eternal rest, the thought occurred to me, and
has never since departed from my mind, that there
is even here upon earth, and in the very air we
breathe, a state of existence for aerial spirits, who,
although imperceptible to our earthly vision, are
unceasingly gliding in countless myriads, above us,
around us, and among us, ever obedient to the
will of their supreme Lord and Master. Me·
thought that in this state of existence, there were
spirits of evil as well as of goocl ; but that even
' "the former were constrained to acknowledge the
, might and majesty of the great God; and that th~
~ redeemed of the Lord, the souls of those who d\.~
4
.,
•
x PREFACE.
forgiven, were not far removed, but calmly repos-
ing in the consciousness of an infinite and ever-
lasting happiness awaiting them at the coming of
the great Judge, when the tremendous signal blast
shall announce to earth, and earth's inhabitants,
that Time is at an end. In this immortal state, the
beings, whether celestial, or spirits of men trans-
lated from their earthly tabernacles, were uncon-
scious of the lapse of time, so that a thousand
years in this intermediate paradise would be to
them but as a moment. Methought, likewise, that
the souls of the wicked lay apart in indescribable
anguish, lamenting their sad condition, and repent-
ing bitterly, but too late, the crimes they had com-
mitted.
The thought that the spirit of my Christian
friend, released from its earthly tenement, which
lay extended before me, already in incipient cor-
ruption, was enjoying a felicity unknown to those
who were yet in the bonds of the flesh, afforded a
consolation which nothing else could give.
I turned away from the mournful spectacle, and
indulged in solitude the thoughts which had been
inspired within me. My own reason satisfied me ·
that with God nothing was impossible; and that if
it were his will, all the ministering hosts of heaven,
and of hell, must be truly mingling everywhere in
the midst of us frail mortals, without the slightest
consciousness on our part of their presence.
According to our principles of philosophy, it
PREFACE. xi
is true all bodies may be analyzed, and their parts
subjected to positive demonstration. But God's
theories, his works, the mysterious and illimitable
creations of his will, are they not too deep, too
high, too broad, to be comprehended and tested by
our philosophy ? We would deem it impossible,
by the application of any earthly agency, to roll
back the waters of the great deep ; to cause a flam·
ing chariot to ascend to heaven ; to withstand un-
scathed the heated furnace ; to make the dumb to
speak, and to raise the dead ; and yet we doubt
not that all these things, and others without num-
ber, of the same apparent impossibility, have been
done by the great Creator of the universe.
The more I pondered and searched the Divine
Revelations, the more deeply I became impressed
with the idea that the ministering spirits of Good,
and of Evil, were constantly attending us. It is
written that even the hairs of our heads are num-
bered, and that we shall be judged according to
the deeds done in the body. Does this not imply
a fact, not to be mistaken, that every conception of
the heart of man is noted down, and that the vast
record is to be opened on the day of final judg-
ment? And do not the Scriptures prove, in divers
places, that angels have really appeared and disap-
peared before the eyes of mortals, being sent by
their supreme Master?. That the immortal spirits
of those who die on earth, are immediately trans-
lated to an intermediate place of repose, or of suf-
xii PBEFA.CE.
fering, as they may have done good or evil, and
there to await the final advent, is surely sufficiently
indicated in the XVIth chapter of St. Luke.
For many years the writer's thoughts have dwelt
upon this subject; and he has prayed that his mind
might be so illuminated as to enable him to produce
a little work which might to some extent arrest the
attention of his fellow-men, and, perchance, by
benefiting them, redound in the end, in some small
degree, to the glory of that great Being to whom
we all owe undivided reverence and adoration.
In illness God has spared the writer. From the
perils of the great deep, when the ocean was tossed
tempestuously, and others perished, God still pre-
served him; and in the darkest fury of the elements,
his prayer still was, that be might live to contribute
something for the benefit of his species, and also
accomplish something, however little, for the glory
of his Preserver.
THE
BOOK OF VISIONS.
VISION I.
I WAS sojourning briefly in the capital of this
great Republic, which most appropriately bears the
name of the illustrious founder of American free-
dom, who was guided and sustained by the wisdom
and power of the great Omnipotent.
It was the Christian Sabbath-day, and I entered
an edifice dedicated to the service of the Lord.
Here, methought, I would behold not only a large
portion of the assembled wisdom of the nation, but
likewise witness a congregation of pious patriots,
devoted, like the beneficent hero, who achieved,
under divine guidance, which be supplicated with-
out ceasing, the liberties of the people, solely to the
service of their God and their country.
The building, which neither within nor without
exhibited any of the vast adornments that illustrate
the ancient structures of European cities, was soon
filled with people ; and as the sound of praise died
away, the head of the minister was bowed in silent
2
14 THE BOOX OF VISIONS.
prayer. Every whisper was hushed; and, as I
calmly surveyed the motionless group, admiring
the mute devotion, suddenly an impenetrable veil
seemed to envelope my eyes, which continued only
for an instant, and was immediately succeeded by
a clearer and purer vision than I had ever pos-
sessed before.
A wonderful change had taken place in the
scene. The entire space above the beads of the
assemblage was filled with wa'tchful spirits, evi-
dently invisible to all but myself, for none seemed
to be conscious of the presence of such an aerial
host. The spirits were of two kinds ; the one of
silver brightne~s, and benignant countenance; the
other of sable aspect, and malignant expression.
. The first class bore each a small tablet suspended
from the necj, and in the hand a book; while the
other had each but a tablet. I soon observed that
every individual present was the object of the con-
stant attention of two of these spirits-one of each
·kind.
Immediately in front of me sat one of the great
men of the nation. He was arrayed in plain ap-
parel, and sang reverently in unison with the choir;
he, also, bowed low his head in time of prayer.
The spirits drew closer to the respective objects of
their attention, and I was irresistibly prompted to
observe the operations of the two that were allotted
to the seemingly devout individual before me. I
saw the spirit of evil write upon his tablet the fol-
•
VISION I. 15
lowing words:-" .llll eyes are upon you"-and
the spirit of good wrote upon his tablet :-"LIFE
-DEATH-JUDGMENT." The inscriptions upon
both tablets were presented to the mind of the
individual; and then the spirit of good, in obe-
dience to the will ofhis divine Master, recorded the
secret thoughts conceived in the heart of the man.
I looked, and read the following lines, as they
were traced by the pencil of light:-" Yes, I think
that every one present has gazed at me;" (he had
supposed the inscriptions on the tablets to be merely
his own spontaneous thoughts;)" the President bas
launched at me a glancing coup-d'teil, thinking,
perhaps, I trench rather much on })is prerogative.
I am glad I yielded to the entreaties ·of my wife,
and came to church to-day; for we are to have a .
sermon, I learn, from the editor of th.e ' Evangeli-
cal Recorder,' printed in one ofour populous cities.
By my grave attitude, and particular attention to the
service, I may win an incidental compliment in his
paper on the score of deportment. Such a notice,
from such a source, would add 'troops of friends'
in the church-going community." Here the last
prayer ended, and I closed my eyes in shame and
mortification, to firtd that this holy place was thus
desecrated by one whose superior eloquence had
often enchained the attention of admiring multi-
tudes; and whose moral sentiments, frequently
expressed both orally and by his pen, had so often
•
16 THE BOOK. o:r VISIONS.
won the approbation of all classes of the comtnu-
nity.
When the sermon began, I observed that this
distinguished individual seemed to be wholly ab-
sorbed with the subject expounded by the very able
and eloquent preacher; and my eyes followed once
more the busy pencil of the recording spirit. Thus
it ran: " When the plate comes round, I mnst
throw in a half eagle ; it will be remarked by the
one who takes the collection, and, perhaps, by the
ladies opposite, across the aisle ; if they should see
it, I know it will be whispered in the ears of a
thousand. • • Well done, my good fellow! that
was ' a palpable hit.' The oratory of these pulpit
speakers is worthy of the observation of the best of
us. They are now taught in respectable schools.
Well done, again ! That point was certainly well
urged. It is true we live now, we who breathe
here; it is also true that we must die; certainly,
all who have Jived before us, are dead ; and there
is no reason why we should expect any exemp-
tion on that fatal point : but as for judgment, after
death, that does not appear to be quite so clear a
point with many. If such be the case, however,
life is truly the time to prepare ourselves for it. I
wish I bad the leisure to investigate this matter.
Some day I certainly must begin a careful exami-
nation of the Scriptures. Hitherto I have only
aought for apropos quotations. Those ladies near
the altar have been gazing this way the last ten
•
VlSlON I. 17
minutes. I think they are the daughters of my
friend ---, one of the members from New
York. If New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and
Indiana, could be secured, there would be no dan-
ger-no doubt of success." I again closed my
eyes, utterly astonished at the revelation I had wit-
nessed.
In the course of a very few moments, it occurred
to me that perhaps this might be the only case of
this ·kind of duplicity among the many attentive
listeners present; ancl I turned softly to observe
what the spirit was recording over the head of a
care-worn member of Congress who sat on my left.
The tablet of the evil spirit which was presented
to his mind, had these words thereon : ".Money is
power;" that of the other: "Taou SHALT NOT co-
- VET." These were the reflections of the politician:
"If God has created gold and silver, and all other
good things for our enjoyment, how can it be sin-
ful to seek to obtain them ? The parson prates
nonsense. If God tempts us to do wrong, it can-
not be just to punish us for yielding, for he is
mightier than we are. • • I am certain, the more
I think on it, that we were swindled last night. My
partner and I had arranged a plan which could not _
possibiy have failed, if a fair game bad been played
against us. We had tested the plan many times.
Its failure of success on this occasion is indubita-
ble proof that we were cheated. And $4000 was
a sum that I could not afford to lose. Early in
2•
•
18 THE BOOK O:i' VISIONS.
the morning I must borrow money to meet my
check, or it will be dishonored. The insulting in-
sinuations of the colonel, when I merely remarked
that his success was not the result of superior play-
ing, may enable me to retrieve myself. I have
learned this morning, as I was accidentally walking
up the avenue just behind a couple of the colonel's
friends, that he will not fight-and that he has
several times declined such invitations. I will
pay him, and then challenge him immediately af-
terwards. If he should determine to fight this
time, some of my friends must make peace between
us, for I must not be fool enough to get shot, or to
shoot a man in such a quarrel as this. Lord By-
ron's example did not take-but the habits of Fox
did not hinder his advancement. Yet I am sure
be will decline the combat ; and as be belongs to
the other party, it will be vastly advantageous to
me in a political point of view. There is not a
prominent opponent in my district who would
fight. No one will dare to contend against me.
Let me see. The Secretary of the Treasury has
promised to make five appointments for me in the
custom-house, and the Postmaster-general says he
can get the President's sanction to appoint the
men I have named as deputy post-masters, pro-
vided I am successful at the approaching election.
The eclat of the challenge will render success cer-
tain, notwithstanding the sermons of the fanatics in
my state. The gross amount of the salaries of all
VISION I. 19
these office-holders will be some $30,000. I have
their written obligations to pay me twenty per cent.,
if I succeed in getting them appointed. That will
be $6000 per annum. Then there is --'s claim
against the government. I have his obligation, if
I get it passed, to pay me ten per cent. That will
be $10,000 more. Three of us, of the committee,
which is a majority, have prepared a report in fa-
vor of 's Indian claim. If the bill passes,
we are to gf!t half the amount. My share will be
$20,000. It may be true that these claims are not
altogether quite just; but if we should not get the
money, the government would be likely to squan-
der it among others not more deserving. Next
winter, I shall be able to pay a letter-writer for
each of the States, all of whom shall make glow-
ing panegyrics on my speeches simultaneously
throughout the whole country. I shall demand of
the President the Treasury Department ; for I can
prove, I think, to his satisfaction, that the present
Secretary is secretly playing into the hands of the
enemy. I must have a place in the cabinet, or
else one of the most lucrative foreign missions.
This last would pay $9000 outfit, $9000 salary,
and $4500 infit. That would be $22,500. As
soon as the appropriation is made, say six months
afterwards, I could resign and come back, under
the pretext that the climate did not agree with me.
I can get a friend elected in my district who will
resign when I return, and I can soon be here
20 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
again. But if the President will not accommodate
me, I shall succeed, perhaps, in having my name
put in nomination for the Presidency. I can
launch sufficient machinery into operation to defeat
his nomination-that much is quite certain."
I felt too much pain at heart to follow the iniqui-
tous thoughts of this honorable member any far-
ther.
I directed my eyes towards another member.
This was an individual of profound learning and
capacious intellect, who had long been in the
councils of the nation; and yet, notwithstanding
his distinguished and effectual services Qn many
important occasions, he was, nevertheless, held in
but secondary repute by the party with which he
generally acted, in consequence of alleged derelic-
tions on se-veral measures of great magnitude, but
of questionable propriety and policy. He was,
besides, a man of reserved manners, and grave
aspect.
It so happened that I did not see the device
with which the evil spirit sought to tempt this in-
dividual; but it was particularly indefatigable in
presenting the tablet in divers ways, both to his
head and his heart. I presumed that no impres-
sion could be made on him, for he persisted in list-
ening attentively to several eloquent illustrations
of the speaker before him ; and at times there was
a slight involuntary movement of the lips, and a
sparkling moisture of the eye, which satisfied me
TISIO.lf I. 21
that all the American legislators were not engross-
ed with worldly meditations on the Sabbath-day.
A glance proved at once that I was not mistaken.
"Truly," he pondered, "it were far better for
me, during this brief sojourn on earth-for it is,
and must be brief-to secure, if it be possible, the
salvation of my soul, and an eternal repose in the
bright and immutable world to come, than, by dis-
simulation and crime, or even otherwise, to obtain
universal empire on earth ; a power which, even
if the possession of it could render us happy here
-but which I deny-must inevitably be snatched
away in a few short years, by death. Others may
pursue whatever course they please; but I shall
continue hereafter, as I have done hitherto, to act
according to the lights of the Gospel, and the dic-
tates of my conscience. I thank God that I have
never yet knowingly erred, in the discharge of my
public and private duties ; and with his blessing
and assistance I will so continue on to the end.
They may reproach me as they will, and continue
to upbraid· me for the neglect of what they are
pleased to term splendid opportunities to ascend to
the pinnacle of power; but my ambition shall be
bounded by the desire to contribute my feeble ef-
forts towards the preservation and perpetuation of
the government erected by the patriots of 1776,
and, as I believe, sanctioned by our Father in
Heaven. I pray thee, heavenly Father, to make us
all true Christians and true Republicans-not des-
THE BOOK 01' VISIONS.
potic demagogues-and the honor of exalted sta-
tion bestow thou upon whom thou wilt-I ask it
not."
I then turned to observe what was passing in the
mind of another member of much celebrity, who
sat in the next pew. This individual, possessed
of acknowledged genius, was represented by the
press of the country as being not only excessively
impassioned and vehement in the pursuit of the
objects of his ambition, but desperate and even
dangerous when menaced or opposed by bis ene-
mies. And being also described by many of the
journals as destitute of regard, either for the pre-
cepts of the Bible, or the opinions of good men, I
felt the greater curiosity to inspect the secret me-
ditations of bis heart. · The following was the idea
instilled by the evil one: "Be terrible, and none
wi.ll dare oppose your course;" and these were the
words of the good spirit: "REPENT AND BE SAV-
ED." And thus the record ran: " I will not in-
dulge in impious thoughts in this place ; for there
are many, too many other times and places to brood
over such unprofitable subjects. I know that many
men fear me, and some bate me, because, instead
of permitting their affronts to pass with impunity,
and yielding to their gigantic plots and combina-
tions to crush me, I have met them boldly, with-
out ever regarding with dread the dangers which
have appalled and silenced other men. Those of
my enemies who have witnessed the failure of their
VISION I. 23
brutal attempts at intimidation, no doubt fear me ;
and while they dare not face me again in equal
conflict, they resort to the pusillanimous means of
attempting to destroy my character by systematized
calumny, propagated anonymously by their presses.
But this is not the place for such thoughts. My
God ! thou knowest I fear thee; thou knowest my
heart-thou alone-and that what I may have
committed against thy holy laws, was done under
the impulse of a too impetuous heart, and under
the conviction of necessity. Most heartily do I
repent the sins I have committed ; and it shall be
my sincere, however weak endeavor, to avoid the
commission of offences in future. Do thou in
mercy assist me, my heavenly Father! and so di-
rect my course that I may yet feel a consciousness
of a change of heart, and that thou art my friend
and saviour, whatever may be the opinions of men.
Oh, lead me not into temptation ! for thou knowest
the fury of my passions. Thou knowest also my
deep-rooted devotion to my country. And having
sanctioned the efforts of our Washington in the
cause of freedom, thou wilt not condemn me for
allying, in this land of liberty, patriotism with re-
ligion."
I must confess, that this revelation produced
within me an agreeable surprise ; and I added my
petition that his supplication might be received
with favor, for I observed that his attending evil
spirit, half lugubrious and half savage in aspect,
THE BOOX OJ' VISIONS.
seemed to make unusually diligent exertions to
divert his thoughts into a less lofty channel, by in-
cessantly presenting new incentives to bis mind,
such as: Yourfoe.11..frownsdisdainfally-B. smi.lu,
and would, ifreconciled, 1hower commmdations upon
you-while the good monitor only repeated his
first suggestion.
An opportunity offering, I stepped lightly a few
paces forward, and occupied a vacant seat. Im-
mediately in front sat a prominent senator, whose
name had occasionally been mentioned in connec-
tion with the Presidency, and whose thoughts I bad
an anxiety to read. He seemed to be listening
very attentively to the sermon; at least his eyes
were fastened on the pulpit. The evil prompter
presented to bis mind these words: ".11.im at no-
thing short of the Presidency"-wbile the good
spirit suggested as follows: "A1M FOB HEAVEN•"
These were the thoughts of this senator: "I have
never yet revealed to the ear of mortal man that I
have aspirations for the chair of the supreme Exe-
cutive ; nor will I, until I have so shaped circum-
stances that the secretly coveted prize must ine-
vitably be mine. Its possession would be heaven
to me; and if, indeed, there be future rewards and
punishments-that we must die, it would be folly
to doubt-I will then have it in my power to do
enough good to counterbalance all my evil, if we
are really to be judged according to our works. . •
Let me ponder well what I shall do in relation to
VISION I. 26
tbe important measure which my trusty spy in the
President's family assures me will be proposed
to-morrow morning, in a special message. It is
undoubtedly the identical measure which I bad
intended proposing myself, in the Senate chamber,
or else in a letter for publication; but the time bas
never yet, as I have deemed, been propitious.
Now, it would appear, it is too late for me to reap
any special benefit from my advocacy of it. And
yet it is certainly a momentous question. If the
proposition had come from me ; or if I were but
the leader in carrying through the measure, it
would be fraught with immense consequences to
myself. It would make me President. But I am
anticipated, forestalled, and the question now for
me to solve, is what course I shall pursue in rela-
tion to it. If I oppose it, it cannot pass; if I
pass it, another will reap the glory. It must be
beneficial to the country, if passed; and it may
injure me if lost by my opposition. Here is truly
a dilemma. I think I must vote for it, in the end,
but have it modified in such a manner-so shaped
that the President will lose bis temper and denounce
it; or else have inserted in its body such provi-
sions as will cause future difficulties, and ultimately
render its utility and policy questionable, so that
no one shall reap advantage from it. It shall be
done. My influence can command such a compro-
mise."
Near the Senator sat two cabinet ministers; one
3
26 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
was the Secretary of State, and the other the Se-
cretary of the Treasury. To the first my attention
was directed. Without reading the words of the
tempter, or the monition of the spirit of truth, I
hastened to the development of the great man's
heart. Here is a faithful copy: "My secret inter-
view with the Envoy lasted so long last
night, and kept me so )ate from my accustomed
rest, that I really feel too dull and weary to ac-
company the minister through his laborious invo-
lutions. · I must either go to sleep sitting in the
church, or else Jet loose my thoughts in the way
they are accustomed to run; and if they refer but
little to matters of religion, and pay no special re-
gard to the day or place, no one can know it.
[What a mistake!] I must take some repose this
afternoon, provided the President shouJd not send
for me again to solve some orthographical problem
in his message, to which be intends putting the
finishing stroke after dinner; or else I shall not be
in condition for our second secret meeting to-night.
To-night we wilJ arrange the particulars; the bases
of our operations are already agreed upon. I had
the President's ultimatum in writing-which I in-
tend to keep ; he his sovereign's definitive instruc·
tions ; and we both expressed our sincere anxiet)
to achieve an adjustment of the matter. He con·
fessed his fear that he was not capable of conduct·
ing the correspondence with me, with credit '
himself, or advantage to his government. T
VISION I. 27
was agreeable to my amor patri<t, if not to my_amor
propre; and I proposed that we should, under the
most solemn protestations of eternal secrecy, mu-
tualJy exhibit our instructions. After a slight he-
sitation, he opened his vest, and very deliberately
drawing forth his packet, laid it beside mine on
the table. That his truly contained the genuine
instructions, there can be no doubt; for surely it
could never have occurred to him that such a pro-
position might be made. He perused my docu-
ment, and I bis: never, perhaps, did two compet·
ing diplomatists mutually enjoy an equal amount
of sudden and unexpected happiness. The terms
offered by our Executive were better than his go-
vernment anticipated ; and we found ourselves
vested with power and authority to settle the diffi-
. culty, with greater advantage to both of the go-
vernments than was required or expected of us.
For this consummation we must be suitably re-
warded. He expects a high title, and I require to
be translated to the Presidential palace. To-night
we must arrange the details. But there must be a
prolonged diplomatic correspondence, and excite-
ments and agitations in both countries, consequent
upon certain fearful rumors, which must emanate
from w, at proper intervals. We must attract the
attention of the world, from St. Petersburg to the
Columns of Hercules ; the funds must be affected
in Wall Street, in Lombard Street, and at the
Bourse-before we bring the momentous negotia-
28 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
tion to a joyful conclusion. In regard to his fear
of inability to contend with me in the correspond-
ence, there is, probably, some foundation for his ap-
prehensions; and hence his proposition to conduct
my side of the discussion, while I represent hi8
government. I can see no objection to this unique
arrangement, providing we do our own transcrib-:
ing, and mutually supervise, correct, and alter ad
libitum. We can continue to meet secretly, and
write letters to each other across the table. At
the onset we must contrive to raise apparently in·
superable difficulties, so that our governments sh1lll
be the better pleased when everything is finally
adjusted in the manner we have agreed upon. I
know the President will be charmed to excess
when I announce to him the fact, that better terms
have been obtained than he really supposed to be
possible. I will affect to give him the glory.
Then he· will give me a carte blanche to dismiss his
enemies from office, and put in their places such
friends as I may deem calculated to promote his re-
.. election. But the country will give all the credit
of the treaty to the negotiator ; and the Secretary
of the Treasury, who is devoted to my interests,
and predicts that I will be the successful candi-
date, will furnish such men to fill the offices as
will work for me, while they must not hesitate to
profess that they are the President's very ardent
friends, and very humble and grateful servants.
The Secretary has promised me, and I see no rea.
VISION I. 29
son to doubt his word, as he is aware that he
would neither have been appointed by the Presi-
dent, nor subsequently confirmed by the Senate,
had I opposed the nomination. Really I am not
awate of anything of any magnitude that now ob-
structs my course. It is true, there must of ne-
cessity occur some petty annoyances to one in my
position. A sarcasm in Congrt>ss, or an occasional
assault in the most violent of the opposition jour-
nals, will only have the effect to place me still
more conspicuously before the people. Tht>re are,
of course, friends in Congress, and editors in the
country sufficiently devoted to my interests, to re-
pel all such attacks. • . I must get rid of one of my
principal clerks. He is the President's spy. He
has them in all the Departments. But this one is
a subtle fellow. How can it be done? He has
charge of the confidential documents. I must imi-
tate his chirography, and attack the President in
one of the penny papers. The New York---
will publish any anonymous letter, provided it en-
closes a bank note. I must insert in it some re-
velation of State secrets. The author will be de-
manded, and the editor will reply by sending the
manuscript. The resemblance of the chirography,
the accuracy of the disclosure, and the position of
the clerk, will suffice to cause bis prompt dismissal,
notwithstanding all his protestations of innocence.
And then his place shall be filled by a creature of
my own."
30 THE BOOK 01' VISIONS.
I ceased to follow the thoughts of the negotiator.
I was content to pause here, mortified with the
reflection that such \,tnceasing efforts should be
made by so many men to obtain the honors of this
worlJ, which they cannot but know must be
speedily relinquished again; while but a moiety of
the exertions thus dissipated, and worse than dis-
sipated, might suffice to win a crown of glory
which fadeth not away.
I transferred my regards to the record of the
thoughts of the other secretary, and thus it ran:
"There sits the President, ' the observed of all
observers;' and yet he is not greater in stature or
intellect than myself. Why cannot I be elected
President? I have friends who believe such an
event altogether possible; and I have been urged
to 'play my cards' with a view to win such a stake.
And now a good opportunity presents itself. One of
my trusty employees, whom I directed to watch the
movements of the Secretary of State, and the -
Envoy, has reported that, being ensconced in the
room where they held their secret meetings, he heard
every word that passed at their conference last
night." [Here the evil spirit presented this incen-
tive: "Be the great American Machiavel"-and the
spirit of good merely suggested the following: " BE
TRUE."] "The Premier," continued the Secretary,
" bas once or twice made indirect allusion to the
fact that I owe him a debt of gratitude. Now,
being in, I shall put him out. I can, and I will do
VISION I._ 31
it. As soon as bis treaty is concluded, I will
write an anonymous letter to Lord --, giving
him a detailed account of the meeting last night;
and I should think be will regard this precious
brace of diplomatists with something akin to in-
dignation. The press shall also have the hint, and
I doubt not inquiries and charges will be made in
certain quarters, which can neither be evaded nor
satisfactorily answered. The treaty will not, of
course, be ratified. In the mean time I will fur-
nish Mr. Premier Secretary with as long a list of
names for appointment as he may desire, and with
pleasure. But I will have the pledge of every one
to use his influence for the elevation of myself.
They must give me that pledge as a preliminary
to the negotiation. They must promise, however,
to be everything that the premier may desire, when
they have their interview with him at the Depart-
ment of State-and they must likewise make fair
promises to the President... To-morrow I am to
give a final answer to the agents of the bankers
and capitalists. One of them intimated yesterday
that his views in relation to all the prominent
questions of the day coincided with mine, and that
he designed establishing a political paper in each
of the four great eastern cities. He remarked that
if be did so, I might name the editors to conduct
· them. What does this mean, but that they shall
be mine, provided I accept his bid ? This would
not be bribery. Patronage of every kind is be-
32 THE BOOK OF \"ISIOKS.
stowed in these refined days, only on tho•e who
can reciprocate favors; and I often smile to hear
applicants for office set up claims for past services,
on the ground that they are in feeble health, or
needy. These timid supplications are mere dis-
gusting puerilities ; the patronage of government is
never cheerfully bestowed, but upon those who, it
is supposed, can renderfuture service. I will secure
the four presses, and have them properly manned.
Their first thunder shall startle the midnight diplo-
matist, who thinks himself unequaled in dissimu-
lation and intrigue. But he must not know the
master-spirit that smites him. With these presses;
the friends I will have in office; and my own ac-
tive skill in mounting the waves as they rise in
the ever-varying sea of politics, I think I may
manage to get the best trumps for the next presi-
dential game."
Here I abandoned the perusal of this man's
thoughts, and sighed in anguish to find that there
should be such degeneracy among the public func-
tionaries, in this fair land, from the bright example
set by the worthies of the Revolution. I was,
however, somewhat consoled to ascertain, on a
subsequent examination, that some of the Cabinet
ministers were pure patriots, but all somewhat
ambitious-and, indeed, almost every public cha-
racter I met with aspired to the Presidency.
I did not peruse the thoughts of the President.
There was an undefinable aversion in my breast to
VISION I. 33
the undertaking; and I was willing to avoid a dis-
closure which might have been gratifying-and
perhaps the reverse. God only knows.
Once more an opportunity occurred to shift my
position without disturbing any one; and finding·
myself near a lawyer of some notoriety, I was in-
duced to examine the nature of his inmost thoughts.
Thus he mused, with his eyes fixed upon the
minister of the Gospel: " I will .conduct S-'s
case for him; but I must have a large share of the
award. The estate be bought a year ago, is not
now worth as much as be gave for it by several
thousand dollars; this fact is undeniable, and can
be made to have much influence on the final deci-
sion. It may be true that at the time the purchase
was made, it was worth all he gave for it, and that
there was a prospect of realizing a very great
profit; we will only adhere to the facts as they
now exist. S-- is poor, and A., of whom he
purchased, is called rich. S--'s endorsers have
deposited the money, and that is the money we
must arrest in its course, and divide among our-
selves. A--'s attorney says be bas received
but a pitiful preliminary fee of $20. . • To·
morrow, I learn, there will be an agreement to
· compromise, and the opposing counsel will be re-
quested to fix upon a third arbiter, and their deci-
sion will be final. The third man will dictate the
terms of settlement. That man must be F--,
who relies upon me to obtain a practice..• I
34 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
must contrive to have him meet A--'s attorney
this evening, and casually express an opinion fa-
vorable to his side o(the question. To-morrow I
will name F-- as the third man. We must all
live. We three will manage to divide with
S-- ; for we will be as much entitled to the
money as he is. We must decide against A--,
for the funds will be ready to meet the award-
whereas, if S-- lost, we could realize nothing,
or comparatively nothing. • . It will be an easy
case, for A-- is so certain of the justice of
his cause, and so sure of success, that he will not
exert himself to procure any other testimony than
the simple contract itself... I must see S--
to-day, and give him instructions what to do...
Other lawyers may sneer at this kind of practice,
and call it robbery ; but while their families are
in indigence, ours shall be affluent. . . Most
heartily do I rejoice with them, that there are so
many of their own class, and so few of mine, in
this.city. All the world over, success in a pro-
fession is the best proof of a man's capacity..•
The priests denounce us, it is true: for i~ is writ-
ten in their text-book, 'Wo unto you also, ye law-
yers! for ye lade men with burdens grievous to be
borne,' &.c. ; but I never read the Bible, and
wouldn't believe it, if I did."
When I ceased reading I observed that the evil
spirit attending this man exhibited many marks of
delight, and presented to his mind many promises
VISION I, 36
of wealth and power ; while the good spi~it, with
a grave countenance, did nothing more than inti-
mate that there was an eternal existence beyond
this life, where none could be happy without being
faithful Christians on earth. These suggestions to .
his conscienc~, the lawyer regarded merely as the
evanescent impressions produced by the sermon,
and they were summarily dismissed, to give place
to the influence o( the mammon of unrighteous-
ness.
The next individual that arrested my attention
was a rich man, who had the deep marks of many
cares imprinted on bis brow. The evil spirit
tempted and tormented him, by filling his mind
with apprehensions of losses; the good monitor
reminded him of the tenth commandment; and
thus be pondered: " I believe I am often the most
miserable man on earth; for now, when my estates
are ample, I find old age creeping on me; and in
place of the enjoyment I have so often promised
myself, when I should be the possessor of a certain
amount of wealth, I find I am feeble, and continu-
ally racked with pains. • • I must employ one
of the best physicians to attend me constantly-
no, no; that would not do; he would rob me; that
is, he would prolong my misery, instead of curing
me, for the purpose of abstracting the greatest
possible amount of money from my coft"ers••• No
one is to .be trusted-none are honest. • . It is
said twenty clerks are to be removed from office
36 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
to-morrow. I advanced a month's salary to fifteen
of them last night. They gave me security, it is
true; but they endorsed for each other. I could
not suppose that such a sweep.would be made. I
shaved them, as usual, some twenty-five per cent.;
and they had the heart to take my money, when no
doubt all of them had been notified that their ser-
vices would be dispensed with after to-morrow.
This is the basest, the blackest ingratitude I ever
met with. • • There are no honest men in the
world. All are rogues. . • I cannot sue these
robbers-and if I did, they have nothing but their
clothes; besides, any legal proceedings would
expose to the whole world all my transactions of
this nature, and which I have hitherto managed to
conceal from every one but those whom I accom-
modated.•• If I see them, and appeal to their
honor, they will justify themselves to their own
satisfaction, by saying the amount they owe me.is
not so much as they have hitherto paid me over
and above the legal interest. It is lost; it iir
gone. • • And now, in my old age, perhaps every
person upon whom I rely-and I must rely upon
some-will deceive me• . • My gray hairs may
yet go down in poverty to the grave." [The
good spirit here suggested, that as be brought
nothing into the world, neither could be take any-
thing out of it. The evil monitor intimated that
he might recover bis losses by raising his rents,
and by demanding payment of some heavy loans,
VISION I. 37
well-secured, if more interest were not paid him
for an extension of time.] "If H. and S. do not
pay me to-morrow,'' be continued," I will distrain.
I will sell everything, bag and baggage, and tum
them all out of doors. The people may abuse me,
if they see proper. It would seem that I am ex-
pected to furnish houses gratis for all the iazy vaga-
bonds who come to the city. . • I have been offered
a higher rent for these houses, with a good assur-
ance of being punctually paid. • • But every time
I distrain, some wicked and malicious person
burns one of my houses, knowing that there is no
insurance. Ah me! my troubles have prevented
me from enjoying a good night's rest for many a
year. They try to rob me, and would not hesitate
_ to commit murder... I must die at last; and
it may be very shortly•.. My children are idle
and extravagant. They would spend a million
in fif'e years. Miserable man that I am! To
think that all my wealth may be dissipated so
soon after I am gone. ~ . If I appoint trustees to
pay my heirs nothing but the income of my estates,
they wi11-cheat me out of the principal as soon as
my back is turned.•. I am more unhappy now,
and have had less enjoyment during the last
twenty years, than the humblest man in Wash-
ington•.• Every one would rob me. No one
will be my friend, unless it be with designs upon
my purse. Even the caresses of my children are
always the mere prelude to an application for
4
38 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
money. What shall I do? Sometimes I attend
church ; but that does me no good. They say
comfort may be found in the Bible; but to con·
sume time in reading it, my affairs must be neg·
lected."
I turned from this dreadful record-a record
which is to be preserved in the great book that will
be opened on the day of judgment-to the face of
the miserable old man ; and every feature told the
sad tale of wo-the wo denounced against those
'who fix their hearts upon the uncertain treasures of
this world.
Near the man ofwealth sat another individual also
well-stricken in years, whose habiliments betoken·
ed his poverty, but his placid countenance indi-
cated a peace and contentment within, which are
far more desirable than gold..• The following
thought was insinuated to the old man's mind
by the evil one, as his eyes happened to rest upon
his neighbor: " W?iy should one have a superabund.-
ance ef this world's goods~ and another be left to.
1truggle with poverty'!" The spirit of good sug·
gested: "BE FAITHFUL TO THE END-AS LAZA•
:aus wAs." And thus r!n the record of his
thoughts: " It is true, that inasmuch as God pro-
vides for the birds of the air, and the beasts of the
field, who toil not, he will the more surely sustain
the creatures in his own image who obey him, and
put their trust in his providence. Let me ascribe
all honor and glory to the only great and good God.
VISION I, 39
In youth I beheld my father's fortune snatched
from him by merciless men, and I was tempted to
curse them, and to utter reproaches against the
Great Disposer of all events: but my pious and
submissive parents hindered me, and counseled
me to lay up such treasure as they still pos·
sessed within, which could be obtained without
price, and which fadeth not away. They instruct·
ed me that no power could bereave me of, such
treasure; that it would neither vanish nor diminish
by enjoyment; and that all other things needful
on earth would be added. I now feel thankful to
God for inspiring them with the disposition to ad-
vise me thus, and that the inclination was given
me to listen to them; for that which they uttered,
I have found to be true. • • Many years have
passed awwy since I was cast in destitution upon a
cold and inhospitable world; and I am still poor;
but I can and do thank my God that I have never
yet gone hungry to bed ; nor lacked raiment to
.keep roe warm; nor suffered with apprehensions
for the future; nor bad my slumbers disturbed by
the phantoms of victims whom I had wrongfully
distressed. No; I have had health, peace within
and without, and have seen my children grow up in
bumble contentment around me. I envy not the
rich and powerful ; but few of them drink at the
pure fountain which God has been pleased to
vouchsafe to the humblest· Christian." [Here,
while the poor man's eyes were sparkling with the
40 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
happy emotions which swelled his grateful heart,
there seemed to be a spirit of superior brilliance
and magnitude descending upon the congregation.
Rays of celestial light were imparted from a com·
mon centre, to a considerable portion of the con-
gregation, whom I supposed to be the true Christ-
ians present ; for although this visitation was
evidently as invisible to them as was the air, yet
there was clearly perceptible in their faces a
changed expression, which indicated that they
were for the moment inspired with better feelings,
and firmer resolves, than ordinarily actuated them.
The speaker grew more animated and solemnly
impressive. 'fhe evil spirits cowered in the holy
presence-and the spirits of good manifested their
joy in smiles of triumph.] The aged man thus
continued to muse: "And when I am called away
from earth-as we all must be some time or other,
and before long-I thank my God that I can go
with an undoubting faith in his promise of a bliss-
ful resurrection to all those who fear and obey him.
Those most dear to me are in the path of wisdom.
I will leave nothing to regret behind me. There is
no wealth I would take with me, but a redeemed
soul.•• Oh Heavenly Father-I thank thee
that thou hast spared and preserved us hitherto,
notwithstanding our many offences against thee;
offences which might justly have consigned us to
ruin; but thou wert merciful. And, oh, in mercy
spare us yet, for we are still weak and sinful: but
VI810lf I. 41
do thou inspire us with a more full and perfect
knowledge of thy will, and give us the resolution
•nd strength to do it. Be thou our monitor and
helper; our guide and guard, during the remainder
of our earthly pilgrimage; and, finally, be pleased
.to accept us into thy heavenly kingdom, for the
sake of thine only begotten and well-beloved son,
Jesus Christ, our advocate and mediator; to whom,
with thee and the Holy Ghost, be all honor and
glory, now and forever: Amen."
The services being ended, and the congregation
dismissed, I still found myself near the rich man,
as we retired towards the door. I perceived
that the recording spirit was still noting down
bis thoughts, and I had the curiosity to cast my
eye at detached portions of what was written•.•
"The old bear!" [He referred to the poor man.]
" What business bas be here in his yellow coat?
• • He must, forsooth, refuse to do my work for a
dollar or so less than the ordinary price, and then
seat himself in church in a common yarn coat. • •
The old hypocrite! If I can ever find an oppor-
tunity, I'll make him howl. I would not be sur-
prised, since he is so independent, to learn that be
is the veritable robber of the bank. • • Yonder
goes the Secretary of the Treasury. I must over-
take him, and try to convince him of the bad po-
licy of removing so many clerks at one sweep. • •
I must magnify the characters and influence of the
unmitigated rascals who seek to rob me; and I
4•
THE BOOK OS VISIONS.
must therefore dissemble my political opinions a
little." I was glad to find an opportunity subse·
quently, to ascertain that all the men of wealth in
that congregation were not similar to thisindividual;
and that one in particular held the honest poor
man in higher estimation, and was prompted in hill
heart to tender him pecuniary assistance in his
small business the very next day. But being pre·
sent at the time indicated, I had the pleasure to
find that the " faithful servant" thankfully de·
clined the favor, as bis necessities did not re·
quire it.
The Sabbath following I attended one of the
churches in Baltimore. About two-thirds of the
congregation were females ; and a large proportion
of them worshiped in sincerity of spirit, as did
also, perhaps, a majority of the males present.
The first individual whose thoughts I read, was
a middle-aged, sedatt! personage, whose serious
visage did not indicate inward regrets, or secret
grief, but a placid analytical habit of thought.
Without perusing the inscriptions on the tablets of
the spirits, I hastened to the record, which ran as
follows: "Of all the millions of our species who
have existed, or do now exist, I know not one
who lived a century ago: and so with all the mil·
lions around us, and I among them, all must sleep
in death after the lapse of a few brief years. It
has been so hitherto. It must be so hereafter.
God alone is imperishable. He made us, and we
V1S101' J, 48
llre bis. If we do his will, death will cease to
appal us; for he has attached to each mortal here,
an immortal soul for eternal destiny. His will is
made fully known in the Holy Scriptures. We
should search them, and conform to all the requi·
sitions therein contained, as instructed to do by our
Saviour, and the inspired believers whom be ap·
pointed to teach all nations. He who sincerely
desires to know the truth, can find it in the Bible,
now open for inspection in all countries-or in the
words of pious men, who have devoted their lives
to the service of Him who died to atone for the
sins of the world. The evidence is ample. The
spirit of the candid inquirer bears·evidence of the
authenticity of the word of God. Even the scoffer
and reviler, if he be learned, may find enough te•
timony in profane records and indubirable tradi·
tions, of the existence, crucifixion, and resurrection
of Christ. He who doubts, desires to doubt, be·
cause he is conscious of guilt which deserves con·
demnation. • • All rational men must believe
there is a God, the great creator of the universe;
and perhaps a majority of the irreligious portion of
all communities in civilized countries, believe in a
state of existence beyond the grave, and also in
future rewards and punishments ; but this cannot
constitute the true believer, who shall be saved,
such as was indicated by the Saviour. Such be·
lievers, indeed, most generally, and most arro.
gantly, assume to be their own judges, and pre·
THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
1ume to decide which of their deeds will be
pardoned, and which punished b.y the Almighty.
They even go so far as to asserl', not unfrequent·
Jy, that a certain amount of deliberate go~d will
balance, or obliterate, a certain amount of preme-
ditated evil. Such individuals, in my opinion,
cannot be the believers whom Christ said should
be saved. He only can be the true Christian be-
liever, who, knowing the will of bis master, strives
to do it. Any man who believes fully, as is ~
quired of him, is as little capable of committing,
habitually, premeditated offences against the Jaws
of God, as an individual in a tranquil state of
mind, is capable of committing suicide. Those
who persist in· doubting, merely cling to the vain
hope that their coveted ignorance may lessen their
accountability•.. How can any sane man, in
a Christian land, knowing that be must die in a
few years; believing in the resurrection of the
dead ; and in the judgment; deliberately commit
an act meriting eternal perdition-particularly if be
believes that all his deeds, words and thoughts,
(as I do,) are instantly noted down, to be produced
by the awful judge on the day of final account?
It must be true that all our thoughts, words, and
actions, are recorded in the book that is to be
opened on the day ofjudgment. The Bible bears
testimony of the fact, and creation proves it; for if
God created all things, what additional stretch of
power would be requisite to create as many in-
VISION I. 45
-Visible angels as there are breathing mortals, to
keep a faithful account of our transgressions. . •
Such is my belief, and such, in my opinion, should
be every man's belief, and then this would soon
be a better world."
The next individual who attracted my attention
·was a young man who neither knelt nor responded
with the female at his side, whom I gupposed to
be his wife, and whose observance of all the forms
of worship seemed to be punctiliously correct. I
perceived that his neglect of those forms gave her
pain, if not umbrage; and that her marked adher-
ence to them was occasionally a source of annoy-
ance to him. The evil spirit thus tempted him:
" It is toritten -that the clo1et ii the place ofprayer-
and that hypocrites make pretences in publicplaces."
The good monitor suggested: "JUDGE NOT, LEST
vou BE JUDGED." Thus he thought : " I hope she
is sincere, and that there is no vain ostentation in
her religious exercises. • • I pray that God will
forgive us all, bless us, and finally save us, for the
sake of his Son, who suffered death to atone for
the sins of the world.•. No-she cannot be in-
sincere. Dhily, for years, has she spent hours in
·her unceasing devotions. She is not only exact in
the performance of what she deems to be her duty
here, before men; but in the privacy of her closet,
when she supposes that no eye is upon her, but His
to whom her supplications are addressed, she is
.diligent and undeviating in the discharge of all her
46 THE BOOK 0)' VISIONS,
religious obligations. . . There may be a prid•
of piety, a desire to be distinguished as a strict
disciplinarian-I will not judge-and if there be,
who shall say it is sinful? I am satisfied she thinb
she does right ; then why should I be pained or
offended at what I may fancy to be mere peculiari-
ties, likely to render her too conspicuous? We
differ in opinion in regard to the importance of the
forms of wors}lip-the non-essentials of religion-
but not in the fundamental principles of Christian-
ity. Then why should we be troubled about the
unimportant details? It is known to God that I
frequently and sincerely supplicate his mercy ; that
even when she is most grieved, perhaps, at the
thought that, being out of the pale of her church,
I am in the broad road to ruin, whatever may be
my posture, my heart is bowed down in humility
before the heavenly Throne, praying the Great Je-
hovah to pardon my many offences; that He will ia
mercy instruct my mind, and guide and guard me
from evil and temptation-so that my life in future
may be more pleasing in His sight. . • I know
and feel that God has been merciful to me ; for bu
he not spared me, and borne with me, when my
walks were altogether among the wicked ? In the
hour of peril he snatched me from destruction,
and showered unmerited blessings upon me. • •
The minister, too, urges the necessity of an exact
observance of the forms which I have always
deemed to be unimportant. • . How eloquent,
VISION I. 4.7
how impressive he is, even when his utterance
sinks almost to a whi!lper ! How still, silent, and
attentive is the congregation under the spell of that
truly great man! Surely his zeal must be impel-
led by the influence of the Holy Spirit. • • May
God teach us all aright, make plain to our under-
standings our duties, and incline our hearts to per-
form them. Give us the knowledge and the
strength, oh God! to resist the devices of the evil
one, so that we may not wander from thy fold."
[Here I observed a frown blacken the brow of the
evil spirit.] "But," continued the individual," if
it be sufficient to worship always and altogether
secretly, how can we ascribe honor and glory to
God before men ? Yet I do not hesitate, nor have
I hesitated, to avow my belief in Christ, both with
my pen and my tongue. This may not be suffi-
cient. Baptism I consider necessary, because it is
so designated by our Saviour; and they say I have
been baptized. May God instruct me! I have
the will to observe whatever ordinance I may
be convinced is essential to salvation..• But I
do not find in the four gospels where any partook
of the bread and wine, or body and blood o'f
Christ, excepting bis immediate disciples; and the
thought has sometimes occurred to me that inferior
Christians may not be privileged to partake of the
Lord's Supper, or the holy communion. Some of
the epistles, it is true, refer to this sacrament in
such manner as to justify the belief that all the
THE BOOK .OF VISIONS,
members of the church were admitted to the com-
munion table. But it is equally true that our Sa-
viour seemed never to enjoin it directly in any of
his admonitions, on any but the few followers im-
mediately abont his person. Certain it is that be
never administered it to any of the multitude of
common believers who were added to the church
before his final ascensi,on ; and to his disciples
only-or rather the twelve-he said: 'as often as
ye do this, do it in remembrance of me.' • •
But I will continue to search the Scriptures dili-
gently, with a determination to seek enlighten-
ment, and to comply with whatever my convic-
tions of duty may dictate..• I wish the clergy
would discourse more frequently on the subject
of the communion, and demon.strate more fully
the necessity and duty-if it truly be such-
of laymen partaking of that mystic sacrament.
That such was the custom at a very early period,
in the time of Nero, '"e have the authority not
only of the early fathers in the church, but of the
heathen writers in confirmation. Would that I
could be convinced on this point!"
The evil spirit which attended the wife was ex-
tremely vigilant and persevering in his efforts to
excite her to anger, and· thus insidiously to lead
her astray. Knowing her contempt for the world,
and worldly things, he did not approach her with
the ordinary allurements which so generally excite
the pride and ambition of others; but by subtle
VISION I. 49
hints and innuendoes, analogous to Christian pre-
cepts, and by mutilated and detached passages of
the Scriptures even, he was constant in bis endea-
Tors to undermine the foundation of her faith, and
overthrow all the good works of her life. Thus,
when he observed her chagrin at her husband's
aeglect of certain formalities, he strove to inspire
her with anger, and to induce her to believe that a
few specimens of ill-temper would constrain him to
yield obedience to her will. These were the words
he selected on this occasion, hoping to wrest even
St. Paul to his purpose : "Be ye angry antl sin
not: let not the sun go down upon your wrath.'' He
trusted to produce contentions and recriminations
between the man and wife ; and knowing the ex-
citability of their tempers, he relied upon subse-
quent efforts on his part to keep the embers alive
long after the setting of the sun. The spirit of
good rebuked the evil spirit, by quoting the suc-
ceeding verse from St. Paul: "NErTHEa GIVE PLACE
TO THE DEVIL." During the whole of the service
the wife continued without ceasing, to repeat the
prayers set forth in the ritual ; and during the ser-
mon she was entirely engrossed with the thoughts
of the minister, and gave no rein to her own
thoughts, save an occasional comparison of the
deductions of the speaker with her own rbies of
conduct, the identification of which she received
as full justification of her practices.
When the congregation was dismissed, I followed
~
BOOK 09' VISIONS.
closely upon the footsteps of this couple a they
walked along the principal street towards home;
Words of an angry nature paS1ed between them,
and the wife repeated the words suggested by the
evil one, when reproached by the husband for a
want of the meek and gentle spirit indispensable
to the Christian. Then, duritg a silence which
succeeded, while they happened to find themselv11
closely surrounded by many persons on the pan·
ment, I perused the thoughts of the wife: "God
knows how ardently I desire his salvation, and that
I only desire that he may wonhip at the same altar
with me, pray from the same book, drink of the
same cup, lie in the same grave, and rise, at the
final day, to the same glorious and eternal de•
tiny ; and that I consider it my duty to strnggle
without ceasing to attain this great end. • • How
often be provokes me to anger-and, I fear to
sin! But if I were not to become angry-if I
were always the meek and yielding creature be
would have me-would he not often impose upon
me such requirements aa would, i( implicitly
obeyed, prove incompatible with my bounden
duty to God? It is surely better to please God
than man. • • I fear God alone..• I may be
too harsh, too bold at times; but my purpose is
always to serve my Maker. I know, I feel the
danger of permitting myself to grow angry; but he
who was so well acquainted with our infirmitiea,
baa 1urely justified its indulgence, with certain
VISION I.
limitations. Yet I am often, very often, betrayed
into an oblivion of the proper restraints. . • I
will strive for myself, and struggle for him, to the
last. I would willingly die, if in my last moments,
« if I could have an assurance after I was gone,
that he would be subdued of his cruel obduracy,
and meet me in heaven. • • Although I may not
relax my stern expression of countenance to his
eyes, I am resolved the sun shall not go down
this day upon my anger•.• He shall see that I
have been wounded at heart by his bitter words;
and I will try and not utter another resentful ex-
pression this day. . . When I reach my closet,
l wilt pour out my heart to God, and supplicate
aid from above to guard me from the devices of
.the evil one, and to give me the power and wis-
dom to snatch my husband from the awful dominion
of Satan."
After parting with this couple, I reflected deeply
on the cause of such unfortunate dissensions, and
lamtnted that Satan still had the power, in this
enlightened age, to bring in unhappy collision be-
lieving Christians, and thus, no doubt, often to
extend bis empire even into the inclosure of the
church militant. But it occurred to me that if such
belieYers as the man and wife, whose thoughts I
had just perused, were left to their reflections and
impulaes, without the application of the constraints
·and restraints so often, ancl so disastrously em-
ployed by very zealous, but nevertheless mistaken
62 · BOOK 01' VISIONS.
and imprudent members of the church, theywould
the more frequently, if not the more worthily, find
their way to the fold of God. If the man and wife
could have read each other's thoughts, there would
have been no longer any contention between them.
And thus it often occurs, in the affairs of this life-,
that when there is no essential difference exist-
ing in the minds and hearts of men, the subtle
promptings of the spirit of evil, by imperceptible
approaches, often rouse into action their worst
passions, whence proceed the most terrible and
lamentable consequences. It is undoubtedly. the
infernal tempter which causes to be committed all
the faults and crimes which so frequently shock
Christian communities. And to win the victory
over him, we must wage a war of extermination
against him. To be secure against surprise, we
must watch unceasingly; and to be enabled to
contend with him successfully, it is necessary to
pray, with faithful hearts, that the great Creator
will sustain us. But to be sustained, it is eaen-
tial first to obey. More is meant in the words
"lead us not into temptation," than is generall7
understood.
On the next Sunday, I attended church in the
beautiful city of Philadelphia. Tb·e person who
first attracted my attention was an individual of
slender proportions, and betrayed many indications
of impaired health. He was precise and circum-
spect in the performance of bis religious dutiea.
-TISJOll' I.
To a caeuel obeerver,'.Jiis uniform grave e:s:preeeioa
of countenance might be mistaken for a too great
degree of austerity; bat a half-developed, half-ob·
_,ured gleam of benignant light that animated hie
eye, told of a consciousness of rectitude and peace
within. He was, nevertheless, quite unpopular
with many of the citizens, who made no profea-
trion of religion. Being considered wealthy, be
was charged by some of being not only illiberal
and ungenerous, but too grasping and exacting in
his business transactions, as well as parsimonious
in his own enjoyments.
Most of this individual's attention was engrossed
by the formulary, and afterwards by the thoughts
of the preacher. But occasionally his thoughts
were beguiled for a few moments into other chan·
nels. He, too, was tempted of the evil one by
Scriptural quotations; among them was the fol·
lowing: "Make to your1elvesfriends ef the mam-
mon ef unrighteousnes1." And the good spirit
quoted the following: "How HARDLY SHALL THEY
THAT HAVE RICHES, ENTER' INTO THE KINGDOM OF
GoD!" Thus he thought: "If I possess, indeed,
the mammon of unrighteousness, God knows bow
it is distributed ; but man does not know it. . . It
is truly hard (or the rich man to maintain unde-
viatingly a Christian's course; but if be shall win
the victory, it will be worth the contending for.
The enemies that my wealth bas made me, could
. nev.er have been the friends to ' receive me into
o•
BOOK Oi' VlllO.NS.
everlasting habitations.' By scattering my money
promiscuously, with a prodigal hand, I might es·
cape the censures and slanders that are now eo
often uttered against me ; but to do this would not
be to' clothe the naked, feed the hungry.' No;
it would be robbing them; for He who knows all
things, is aware that I do not withhold my purse
from the really needy. But the world does not
know it; for I prefer that they should remain in
ignorance of these ministrations. If I bear the
contumely ot the worldly-minded, while serving
God, rather than encounter the temptations of
their plaudits, it will not be imputed unto me as
a sin... I will continue to enjoin secrecy upon
those to whom I render assistance, if they know
me; and to aid others anonymously, merely re·
minding them of the good providence of God to·
wards those who are worthy... Let me rather be
thy faithful steward, heavenly Father! and have
thy approbation, than minister to the cupidity of
the wicked, and have the praises of man."
The next subject of my notice was a tall man,
whose gray locks indicated that he had passed the
meridian of his days; but his erect stature and
fullness of frame led me to suppose that mental
suffering had contributed a large share in pro-
ducing his snowy hairs. This individual was re·
puted to be one of the wealthiest citizens, and
one of the most munificent merchants, in that fair
city. All spoke in his praise. The tempter pre-
VISIOlf I, 66
sented this idea to him: " You have the popularity
now to make afidl-handedfail,u.re, tDith impunity."
The good prompter replied: "OBEY Gon, AND PUT
YOUB. TB.UST IN Hllrl." Many portions of the ser-
mon seemed to be applicable to the merchant's
condition, and he was sometimes deeply affected
by the eloquently uttered truths. Thus he pon-
dered: "How often, bow deeply do I regret that
I did not follow the early suggestions of my con-
science, and seek that peace within which 'passeth
understanding,' rather than the vain applause of
my undiscriminating fellow men. · When I look
back, and remember the thousands I have bestow-
ed for avowedly useful and charitable objects, I
cannot deny to myself the fact that my motive, in
every instance, was purely selfish and sinful. I
do not recollect having unostentatiously relieved
the unfortunate and distressed•.. I have contri-
buted thousands for divers purposes; but never
one cent, that I can recollect, in charity.•. I
have the favor of men, but not, I fear, the appro-
bation of God. Without, all is fair ; within, all
is dark and mournful. Such is the wisdom and
justice of God. And yet, the miserable thought,
of a dishonorable and criminal action, bas but now
occurred to my mind ! Surely this is the prompt-
ing of Satan, who has too long had dominion over
me." [Here the countenance of the evil spirit
grew terribly dark and furious.] "If," he con-
tinued, " I had retired from business two years
BOOK 01" VlllOKS.
ago, as I was often inclined to do, I wo11ld ·DOW
ha•e been the poeMssor of a million. But ID1
cupidity led me to make still greater exeitioo1 to
accumulate more. • . When I bad a large 1urplt11
fund, I shared with the brokers their u1uriou
gains; and presuming on the fame of my integrity,
I falsified my invoices, and misrepresented tbe
cost and quality of my goods, to obtain exorbitant
profits. And what is the result? An unexpected
convulsion of the financial affairs of the country,
bas caused two-thirds of those indebted to me to
become insolvent. • • The amount I shall be ena-
bled to realize, will not, perhaps, suffice to satisfy
three-fourths of the demands against me••• God
is just, and often punishes us, even in this world,
for our iniquities. • . But what shall .I do? I
might give up all, and begin a new life ;" [" and
die in milerable deatitution,'' suggested his evil
spirit,] "or," be continued, "I might bestow a
hundred thousand dollars on my daughter, from
the funds I have in hand, and continue my busi-
nesa for several months longer, before the know·
ledge of my condition would transpire among my
creditors. No one suspects me yet. My credit is
unimpaired. But the e,·iJ day must come ere long,
and my assets will be found insufficient to· cover
my liabilities. But, then, would such a course be
honorable? If God has punished me for neglect·
ing to do right, should I not expect an extraordi-
nary accumulation of wrath for doing positively
VISION I. 57
wrong?" [The ever vigilant evil monitor here
suggested: " You can repent past error1, and re-
1olve to do better in future-and busineSB may take
a fortunate turn, so that you may be honorably
utricated from present difficulties." To this the
good spirit made reply: "Do NO EVIL THAT GOOD
MAY COME. YoY MAY DIE sooN."] I perused the
record of his thoughts no farthe.r; but I learned
. subsequently, that the evil spirit prevailed; that the
fearful event which his conscience bad whispered
to him, had truly come to pass; and that in the
settlement of his estate, it was ascertained that the
sum he had placed in his daughter's hands, would
have sufficed to pay his debts, and still have left
him an ample competency.
The next person whom I noticed was a female
about forty years old, who had some ten years pre-
viously been divorced from her husband, because,
as it was alleged, of misconduct on his part. He
had since died. The female, having no children,
took lodgings in a respectable boarding-house,
where her meekness and humility, and constant
exhibition of pious proprieties, soon attracted the
attention and regard of the religious portion of the
community. At length she became accustomed to
have frequent interviews and consultations with
the most eminent ministers of the church, until,
finally, all her thoughts and words seemed to be
engrossed by the movements and interests of the
clergy. She wrote voluminous letters to distin-
58 BOOK OF VISIONS.
guished divines in r_elation to matters of doctrine
discussed in the circle she frequented, and exhi·
bited their replies merely, as she stated, f'or the
purpose of deciding the controversy. Theae
triumphs of the apparently meek and humble
Christian lady, did not pass without exciting eTil
thoughts in the hearts of some of her female auo-
ciates. Whether it was envy, or well-founded
doubts of her sincerity, that caused them to spread.
reports detracting from her good name, thote
among whom she lived were unable to determine;
but nevertheless she was regarded by many as 1
suspected person, and a doubt was entertained re-
lative to the propriety of grave divines corre1pond·
ing with her.
Her eyes were fixed upon the minister while I
perused the record of her thoughts, of which the
following is a faithful copy: "He is still handsome,
and becomes the more eloquent as he advances in
age. . • Why, why did I not accept bis offer,
when he was in the beginning of his career, fooli1h
woman that I was! But no one then predicted
that he would ever become so great. . • I have
Jong been a widow, or the same thing, I suppose,
as a widow; and bis poor wife, who has been IO
long in a decline, still lingers provokingly at the
verge of the grave.•. Yet he never alludes to
the past. • • Still he sometimes stares abstractedly
when alone with me, as if recurring to the days of
his first love-and often feelings of painful regret
VllJOM I. 69
aeem to mark bis brow. . • Those impertinent
daughters of old Mrs. -- have surely been in the
habit of listening at the key-hole of my chamber-
door. I have heard them repeat in derision one
or two of the phrases and angry epithets, which
were most imprudently suffered to escape me last
evening, when a note informed me that be bad
gone to Mrs. --'s tea-party, instead of paying
.his accustomed visit to me. I must conceal my
occasional out-bursts of ill-temper, better ; bot a
time may come wlaen I shall be above the influence
of their whispers and malignant innuendoes. • • I
heard her physician say she could not survive an-
etlaer month.. • • Skilful management must avail
me now or never." I felt no desire to pursue the
thoughts of this individual any farther. I may
state, however, what I subsequently learned of her
history. The reverend divine, some fifteen months
after the demise of his wire, having married one of
the young ladies of bis congregation, the widow
conceived a profound disgust at such a procedure,
and withdrew from the church. She consigned
her numerous letters from clergymen to the flames,
and henceforward became one of their most bitter
revilers.
The next female that attracted my attention (and
here, too, a majority of the congregation consisted
o( females), was young, and possessed of much
personal beauty. She was evidently familiar with
the formulary of the church, and no doubt had
60 BOOK OF VIll01'8.
been nurtured by pious parents; but still I could
not avoid remarking that her giddy eyes, even while
the words of praise and prayer were on her lips,
and mechanically pronounced by them, constantly
wandered over the congregation in quest of inte·
resting novelties. Her thoughts ran thus: "Well,
there is the grass-widow, as fine as a bird of Para·
dise, and resembling it in plumage. • • What a
profusion of yellow on her bonnet! I think I would
as willingly Jet my yeJJow skin be seen, if it were
yellow, as to exhibit the colors which are uni·
versally known to be employed to conceal it. • •
Yonder is a handsome young man-and be seems
to be religious. I wonder who be is! He is evi·
dently a stranger. I wonder that Julia and Char·
lotte are not ashamed to be seen staring at him.
I hope Dr. -- may observe them. . • Poor Mra.
--! They say she is sinking fast, and must soon
die. She is truly pious~ and will surely meet her
husband in heaven... I wonder whether he will
ever marry again ? It seems to me that I should
like to be the wife of a distinguished clergyman.
But I am too young for him ever to think of me•••
They say that the Rev. Mr. --, who is young
enough, was smitten with me the last time he
preached here. But he bas never intimated any·
thing to me. It has always been predicted that I
would be married to a minister. They are doubt·
less better men, and make better husbands, than
lawyers and physicians. They dare not quarrel
VISION I, 61
with their wives.•. There-was that meant for
me? He certainly looked in this direction, when
he censured the 'frivolity of gay apparel.' I do
not care for dress; I do not require any of the ac-
companiments of art to show off my beauty. So,
dear, good doctor, you shall see me in my pew this
evening dressed plainly to your taste••. I declare
he always makes me weep-he is so eloquent, and
his words are so true. God forgive us all our
sins,,,
This was the young lady who became the doc-
tor's wife.
But I must hasten to other objects, not deem-
ing it necessary to pause longer here, for the
purpose of transcribing the record of the secret
thoughts of many others perused by me in the en-
lightened congregations of Philadelphia, where a
vast majority of the females, particularly, were
faithful and sincere in their devotions. The im-
portant fact, which should always be present in
every mind, is, that whether we imagine good or
evil, nothing can be hidden from the all-seeing eye
of Him who created'us.
The IDEA of man, which alone should be suffi-
cient fo convince any one of the immortality of the
soul, is quicker in cleaving space than the light-
ning's flash, which illumines the sky from east to
·west. Without any perceptible exertion, it is not
only instantaneously transported to the remotest
bounds of earth, but before the lapse of a second
6
62 BOOK OF VISIONS.
dwells upon the events of remotest ages. Such a
mysterious attribute of man cannot perish with the
body. It should not then produce incredulity, if,
in some instances, the record of the thoughts of
one or more members of a congregation should
even extend to a greater length than the sermon
itself. The mind may conceive more in an hour
than the tongue can utter in a day.
I sat in one of the Christian edifices of New
York :-edifices which are, beyond doubt, the
finest ornaments of the city, and which, from the
solidity of material, and liberal plan of construc-
tion, are destined in future ages to exist as the
noblest monuments of the munificence, intelli-
gence, and Christian refinement of the inhabitants
of that great metropolis.
The individual who sat immediately in front of
me, was a distinguished lawyer, a gentleman of
polished manners and superior education. But be
was reputed to be an unbeliever. The following
thoughts were assiduously presented to bis mind by
the evil spirit : " The ignorant are always credu-
lous. Pliny, Tacitus, Voltaire, Hume, Gibbon, and
a host of other great men, were skeptics." The
spirit of good suggested: "STILL A uaa:u
NU.MBEa OF THE WISE AND GREAT BELIEVED. EA.cs
ONE SHOULD EXAMINE AND DECIDE FOR HIMSELI'."
He thought as follows: " I must confess that
while there exist, and have existed, some men of
profound learning, and benevolent hearts, who do.
VISION I. 63
not, and did not, believe the revelations purport-
ing to be inspired, there always lived at the same
tim~, and do live now, a far greater number of
men, equally as well informed, and as candid, who
have believed, and do now believe, most impli-
citly, the truth and inspiration of the Scriptures.
Such being the case, it is incumbent on each one
of us to examine for ourselves, the evidences of
the truth of Christianity, rather than to rely alto-
gether on the opinions of others, however cele-
brated they may have been for their abilities of
intellect, and correctness of moral deportment. . •
The preacher's arguments are certainly unanswer-
able, if his authorities be admitted. But ho~ can
I admit them, without being first convinced of
their validity? I have not read the Bible. I ac-
knowledge that I have never yet fully examined
either the Old or the New Testament. But I am
somewhat familiar with the history of the world,
both before and since the era of the alleged birth of
Christ, mostly by skeptical writers, it is true, and
of course the enemies of Christianity. . • Now,
while the sermon is edifying so many sincere Christ-
ian worshipers, who have studied the Scriptures, I
will, for the first time in my life, run over such of the
evidences of the divine truth of Christianity as I
can remember, derived from the testimony of Pa-
gan witnesses. . . Literature and the arts attracted
as much attention in the time of Augustus, when
Christ Jived on earth, as they do now, and perhaps
64 BOOK OF VISIONS.
in many instances bad attained greater perfection.
Palestine was a Roman province, governed by the
procurators or deputies of the Emperors, whose
dispatches or reports on the condition of the
country, were regularly trans~itted to Rome, and
deposited in the imperial archives; and from such
authentic documents are derived the facts recorded
by the historians of the empire. The originals of
these histories have been transmitted fo us, and
faithfully translated into the modern languages. • •
The assertion of some ignorant·'infidels, that the
New Testament is a fiction, written by some ro-
mancers, centuries subsequent to the era it purports
to illustrate, is grossly false. This much can be
pronounced most positively, from the facts of
heathen writers. But the declaration, that if Mat-
thew, Mark, Luke, and John, bad never written,
and if the Christian revelation bad never been
collected and published, Christianity would never-
theless have taken root, and spread over the civil-
ized world, bas never been quite so clear to my
comprehension. It is true, I have never investi-
gated the subject. Let me do it now••• Tacitus
was one of the most learned men and elegant
writers of the first century; but be was certainly a
haughty contemner of the Christian sect. He held
a high office under the Emperor. In the account
he wrote of the cruelties practiced by the tyrant
Nero, on the Christians in the city of Rome, (about
three score years after the birth of Christ,) when
VISION f, 66
St. Peter and St. Paul suffered death, he remarks
that the Eiiiperor ' inflicted the most exquisite tor-
tures on those men, who, under the vulgar appel-
lation of Christians, were already branded with
deserved infamy. They derived their name and
origin from Christ, who in the reign of Tiberius had
suffered death, by the sentence of the procurator
Pontius Pilate. For awhile this dire superstition
was checked ; but it again burst forth ; and not
only spread itself over Judea, the first seat of this
mischievous sect, but was even introduced into
Rome, the common asylum which receives and
protects, whatever is impure, whatever is atro-
cious?' Then follows an account of the revolting
particulars of the tortures inflicted by Nero on the
Christians in Rome. That this account was writ-
ten by Tacitus, a few years after the occurrence
took place, the most inveterate skeptics have never
in any subsequent age presumed to doubt. In his
own day arid generation, he was as universally ad-
mired as an author, as he is now among the libe-
rally educated classes in all countries. This fact is
indisputable••• His testimony indubitably fix~
the date, and establishes the existence of Christi-
anity, precisely in accordance with the writings of
the apostles, and the assertions of all subsequent
churchmen. So much for the charge of fiction or
fabrication. Such an imputation is ridiculously
absurd. . . Now for the assumption that this' <lire
superstition,' as Tacitus, who was a worshiper of
6•
66 BOOK OF Vl810NS.
the Pagan deities, denominates it, would have
survived the persecutions of its enemies,·and spread
even to this day, if the four Gospels had not been
written. This consideration involves matters of
very great importance ; and my reflections, for the
first time in my life, begin to startle me. • • But
how can we ascertain when the Gospels were
written? Neither of the four biographers of Christ
was the victim of Nero ; at least no one assert&
that either of them suffered death on the occasion
referred to. About a hundred years after the birth
of Christ, it is maintained by theologians, that St.
John, in extreme old age, wrote his book. When
the others wrote we have no certain knowledge.
But it is undeniable that the New Testament is not
mentioned, or in any manner referred to by the
enemies of Christianity, at the time ofNero's perse-
cutions. Yet the doctrines of the first Christians
were known, and were the same that were after-
wards promulgated in the published Scriptures. It
is proved by Roman writers, that under subsequent
Emperors, a century or two later, the New Testa-
ment was condemned to the flames, with the Chris-
tians who read and believed it. It follows, then,
in the time of Nero, that the things concerning
Christ, and his precepts, were only secretly pre-
served in written memoranda, or merely repeated
from the mouths of the primitive disciples. And
yet Tacitus asserts, and with a considerable degree
of indignation, that the flame burst forth again, after
V18101' 1. 67
being momentarily checked (as be supposed) by
the execution of its author, 'and not only spread
itselfover Judea••• but was even introduced into
Rome.' • • The younger Pliny was born near the
middle of the first century. He, too, was a most
accomplished writer, and his productions are fami-
liar in every school ~t this day. He was a pupil
of Quintilian, afterwards a tribune of the people,
prefect, consul and pro-consul. Among his nume-
rous appointments was that of Governor of Pontus
and Bithynia, in Asia Minor, many hundred miles
from Jerusalem, and more than a thousand from
Rome. This was at a time when we have no evi-
dence that any of the books of the New Testament
had been published. Pliny lived in the time of the
i\ postles, and had probably seen more than one of
them. Yet he was a Pagan, and the principal ob-
ject of his appointment seems to have been to in-
vestigate the cause of the great desertion of the
pagan gods, and to convict and punish the evil-
doers, the Christians. But it appears there was no
law to prohibit any one from worshiping whatever
deity he might prefer; and Pliny's report to the
Emperor Trajan, while it denounces the Christians,
and seems' to solicit more particular instructions as
to the course he should pursue, betrays the im-
portant fact of the rapid growth of the ' new sect,'
as the Christians were called, at that early day,
and in that distant province, and even before the
Scriptures were accessible to the people. He thus
68 BOOK OF VISIONS,
described them from their own confessions: 'They
affirmed that the whole of their fault, or error, lay
in this-that they were wont to meet together on
a stated day, before it was light, and sing among
themselves alternately a hymn to Christ, as to God,
and bind themselves by an oath, not to the com·
mission of any wickedness, but not to be guilty of
theft, or robbery, or adultery, never to falsify their
word, nor to deny a pledge committed to them
when called upon to return it. When these things
were performed, it was their custom to separate,
and then to come together again to a meal, which
they ate in common without any disorder; but this
they had forborne since the publication of my edict,
by which, according to your commands, I pro-
hibited assemblies. After receiving this account,
I judged it the more necessary to examine, and
that by torture, two maid servants • • . but I have
discovered nothing beside a bad and excessive
superstition. Suspending, therefore, all judicial
proceedings, I have recourse to you for advice, for
it has appeared to me, matter highly deserving
consideration, especially upon the account of the
great number ofpersons who are in danger of sufl'er-
ing,for many of all ages, and every rank, of bot/a
sexes likewise, a·re accused, and will be accused.
Nor has the contagion of this superstition seized t'M
cities only, but the lesser towns also, and the open
country.' • . Such is the testimony of a Roman
Governor, and a bitter opponent of Christianity,
VISION J, 69
who lived in the days of the Apostles. And such
was the rapid and wide-spread dissemination of
the Christian faith, before the books of the New
Testament were presented in a written form. • • It
must be admitted, from such premises, that it is no
unreasonable inference to suppose that the converts
to the faith would have been multiplied, and ex-
tended to our own time, even if the testimony of
the Apostles had not been written and published.
• • And if this conviction be predicated upon the
recorded evidence of heathens, men mighty in au-
thority, and avowedly hostile to the propagation of
such doctrines, how can any one, at this day, re-
fuse credence to the records of the founders of the
church, which correspond precisely with the asser-
tions and charges of the revilers and enemies of
the primitive Christians? ••• For my part, I an:i
determined henceforth to read the Scriptures dili- .
gently••• The mere inventions of man-works
pertaining only to this world-are perishing every-
where, and must perish. The worship of heathen
deities prevailed throughout the Roman world-
and poets, philosophers, nobles and emperors, com-
bined to perpetuate it; and yet all their gods ~ere
overthrown, and have vanished from the face of the
earth. Could such a gigantic work have been ac-
complished by the uneducated son of a mechanic,
and a few rude and ignorant fishermen of Galilee?
They bad neither gold nor armies with which to
contend against the fierce Jews, and the innume-
70 BOOK OF VIllONS.
rable warlike legions of the conquering Pagans; yet
they prevailed throughout the civilized world; and
at this day, after the lapse of more than eighteen
centuries, the banner of the cross is still erected
and borne triumphantly in every nation-and with
particular zeal and determination in the mighty
empire of Russia, now rolling back the tide towards
the walls of China. Is this the mere invention of
man, or the mighty work of the great God, who
created the universe? • . Why, the first Chris-
tians, Christ and the apostles themselves, were
stigmatized by the polished and erudite Romans,
as illiterate vagabonds, the dregs and oft'-scourings
of the earth; and yet we see how completely they
confounded the wisdom of the world. The doc-
trines they taught, their precepts, were incompatible
with their low stations in life, and often far beyond
the conception of uninspired men.. They have
defied the criticism of the best intellects in every
age, and withstood the denunciations of centuries;
and are now almost universaJly acknowledged to
embrace every valuable and just principle of moral
conduct, which alone can secure and preserve the
liberty and happiness of mankind on earth, and
which, nearly all will agree, must accord with the
will and pleasure of a Supreme Being, the author
of all things... No such fruits ever proceeded
from the invention of man. There is no account
of a similar instance, of an analogous case, on re-
cord... But there is still other profane testimony
VISION I. 71
which accords with, and therefore substantiates
the truth of Scripture. Tacitus states that Jesus
Christ suffered death in the reign of Tiberius, 'by
the sentence of the procurator Pontius Pilate.'
Such a sentence, under such circumstances, was
in accordance with the duty of the governor. To
be the descendant of a dethroned or subdued race
of kings, in any of the provinces of Rome, was
sufficient cause of death; and usually every pre-
tender to the imperial throne, or to any of the con-
quered kingdoms degraded into provinces, whether
he was a slave, or of the blood-royal, was sum-
marily disposed of by the officers of the emperor.
Jesus was known to be a lineal descendant of King
David, for the Jews carefully preserved their ge-
nealogies; and his enemies could only prevail,
under this pretext, on the governor to deliver him
up to the executioners. An account of his execu·
tion, and of his being the heir, by descent, to the
throne of Judea, was transmitted by Pilate to the
emperor at Rome, as is proved by the evidence of
Tertullian. And the clamor of the Jews, that
Jesus aspired to be king; their assertion and proof
that he was lineally descended from David ; and
their threats uttered against the reluctant governor,
of remissness of duty to his imperial master, Tibe-
rius Cresar, alone sufficed to accomplish their ven-
geance on their submissive victim. If Pilate bad
not permitted the sacrifice of Jesus, there is abund·
ant reason to believe be would have been dismissed
72 BOOK O.F VISIO.lfl,
from office, and probably condemned to death by
the emperor. This supposition is strengthened by
a well-authenticated fact in Roman history. It is
recorded by Gibbon himself, the boasted skeptic.
Under a subsequent procurator of Judea, two indi-
viduals were arrested and brought before the tri-
bunal of the Emperor Domitian. ' They were,'
says Gibbon, (and he but translates the statement
from the Latin historians,) ' the grandsons of St. .
Jude, the apostle, who himself was the brother of
Jesus Christ. Their natural pretensions to the
throne of David might, perhaps, attract the respect
of the people, and excite the jealousy of the go-
vernor; but the meanness of their garb, and the
simplicity of their answers, soon convinced him that
they were neither desirous nor capable of disturb·
ing the peace of the Roman empire. They frankly
confessed their royal origin, and their own relation
to the Messi.ah; but they disclaimed any temporal
views, and professed that his kingdom, which
they devoutly expected, was purely of a spirifual
and angelic nature. When they were examined
concerning their fortune and occupation, they
showed their hands, hardened with daily labor,
and declared that they derived their wliole sub-
sistence from the cultivation of a farm near the
village of Cocaba, of the extent of about twenty·
four English acres, and of the value of nine thou-
sand drachms, or three hundred pounds sterling,
(about ttoOO.) The grandsons of St. Jude,' con-
VISION I. 73
tinues the unbelieving historian, ' were dismissed
with compassion and contempt.' The tyrant, how-
ever, murdered his own nephews, and banished his
daughter and his grand-children; and, therefore,
it is not very probable he felt much compassion,
however much he may have partaken of Mr. Gib-
bon's contempt, for the relatives of Jesus.•• While
the doctrines of Christ have achieved the victory
over all opposition-alike the edicts of Emperors,
and the zealous hostility of the Jews-the authen-
tic records of history show that Barchochebas, who,
early in the second century, announced himself as
the conquering Messiah, the long·expected deli-
verer, was, in the space of two years, completely
overthrown, and his followers utterly dispersed
and demolished by the legions of the Emperor
Adrian. And yet he was acknowledged by hun-
dreds of thousands of Jews, and was supported by
a large army••• All the heathen writers who
lived in the first century, concur in stating that the
true Christians, without the slightest hesitation, re-
linquished family, station, fortune, fame, and even
life·itself, rather than abate one particle of their
holy faith. And when they refused to worship
idols, according to the edicts of the Emperors, and
were punished for disobedience, their most cruel
enemies could never reproach them for any moral
dereliction. And Pliny, who in some instances
applied the torture, could only allege their ' ob-
stinacy' in justification. He says: 'Whatever
7
74 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
may be the principle of their moral conduct, their
inflexible obstinacy appeared deserving of punish-
ishment. • •' Surely it would appear that there is
an eternal and immutable principle of divinity in
the Christian revelation, for the same zeal, inflexi-
ble faith, and unalterable devotion, which charac-
terized the first converts, is still apparent every-
where, in this day, in all civilized communities•••
During the first few centuries after the death of
Christ, and before there was any connection be-
tween Church and State, the organization of the
church was precisely similar to what it ill now.
All the early writers who have made reference to
the subject at all, seem to unite in attributing to
the church the principle of Episcopacy. There
were bishops, presbyters, and deacons ; and the
ceremony of ordination descended in regular and
unbroken succession from the original Apostles.
The inferior clergy selected by lot, or by suffrage;
those whom they desired to be promoted td the
office of bishop ; and they were always ordained
by the imposition of the hands of regularly instal-
led bishops. The presbyters and deacons were
likewise ordained by the laying on of the bands
of bishops. During the third century there were
nearly two thousand bishops in Europe and Asia,
every one of whom could trace his ordination back
to the fountain head-to the time of Christ him-
self. At that time, and long subsequently, the
same spiritual authority was universally attributed
VISION I, 75
to them all; or if there was any dift'erence in this
respect, it was owing entirely to superior ability
and piety, and not to any real or fancied para-
mount ecclesiastical jurisdiction. Such is the tes-
timony of profane history, which, at least, must be
impartial and disinterested on that point. Indeed,
at times, the bishops of Alexandria and Carthage,
and perhaps of other cities, exercised more autho-
rity in the :Christian Church than the Bishop of
Rome; and for ages before the Christian era, and
for centuries afterwards, the only supreme Pon-
tiff's were the high-priests of the Pagan temples,
who directed and superintended the worship of
Jupiter, Minerva, &c. The term Pontiff' was,
therefore, first employed by the heathens ; and
hence the origin of its use is improperly attributed
to the early Christian, or Catholic Church. • • I
remember distinctly the skeptical historian's ac-
count of the persecution and martyrdom ofthe great
and good Bishop Cyprian, at Carthage, upward of
two hundred years after the birth of Christ, and
during the still unbroken reign of the Pagan tyrants
at Rome. Gibbon had before him an original copy
of the life of Cyprian, written by one of his dea-
cons, who was present at bis execution-as well
as a copy of the ancient official proconsular acts,
from the Imperial archives, and 'these two rela-
tions,' saysGibbon, 'are consistent with each other.'
Cyprian, it seems, was so much beloved by the
numerous body of Christians in his diocese-and
76 THE BOOK 01'' VlSlONS.
this term is frequently used in Roman history, to
designate the limits of a bishop's jurisdiction-
and so much esteemed for his benevolence and
great intellectual qualities, by every class of peo-
ple, that as much mildness and delicacy as possible
were exhibited both by the tyrant and his deputies,
in proceeding against him ; for it was feared that
the community might rise en masse and revenge
his death. The account of his death is as follows:
'At length, exactly one year after Cyprian was first
apprehended, Galerius Maximus, pro-consul of
Africa, received the imperial warrant for the exe·
cution of the Christian teachers. • • In bis gar-
dens Cyprian patiently expected the ministers of
death. Two officers of rank, who were intrusted
with that commission, placed Cyprian between
them in a chariot : and as the pro-consul was not
then at leisure, they conducted him, not to a prison,
but to a private house in Carthage, which belonged
to one of them. An elegant supper was provided
for the entertainment of the bishop, and his Chris-
tian friends were permitted for the last time to en-
joy his society, while the streets were filled with a
multitude of the faithful, anxious and alarmed at
the approaching fate of their spiritual father. The
bishop exercised a last and very proper act of
·jurisdiction, by directing that the young females,
who watched in the street, should be removed from
the dangers and temptations of a nocturnal crowd.•
• Art. Pro-ro11~11lari11 .
VISION J, 77
In the morning be appeared before the tribunal
of the proconsul, who, after informing himself of
the name and situation of Cyprian, commanded him
to oft'er sacrifice, and pressed him to reflect on the
consequences of his disobedience. The refusal of
Cyprian was 6rm and decisive ; and the magistrate,
when be bad taken the opinion of his council, pro-
nounced with some reluctance the sentence of
death. It was conceived in the following terms:
That Tbrascius Cyprianus should be immediately
beheaded, as the enemy of the gods of Rome, and
as the chief and ringleader of a criminal associa-
tion, which be bad seduced into an impious resist-
ance against the laws of the most holy Emperors,
Valerian and Gallienus••• As soon as the sen-
tence was proclaimed; a general cry of 'We will
die with him,' arose at once among the listening
multitude of Christians who waited before the
palace gates. The generous eft'usions of their zeal
and aft'ection were neither serviceable to Cyprian
nor dangerous to themselves. He was led away
under a guard of tribunes and centurions, without
resistance and without insult, to the place of his
execution, a spacious and level plain near the city,
which was· already filled with great numbers of
spectators. His faithful presbyters and deacons
were permitted to accompany their holy bishop,
(undistinguished from the crowd, and not in their
clerical character.) They assisted him in laying
aside his upper garment, spread linen on the ground
7•
78 THE BOOK O.i' VISIONS.
to catr.h the precious relics of his blood, and r.e•
ceived his orders to bestow five and twenty pieces
of gold on the (innocent) executioner. The martyr
then covered his face with his hands, and at one
blow bis bead was severed from bis body. His
corpse remained during some hours exposed to the
curiosity of the Gentiles; but in the night it was
removed, and transported in a triumphal procession
and with a splendid illumination to the burial-place
of the Christians. The funeral of Cyprian was
publicly celebrated, without receiving any interrup-
tion from the Roman magistrates.' . • Such is the
authentic and undoubted record of the martyrdom
of an eminent bishop at that early day; and it
was a spectacle well calculated to attest the truth
and merit of Christian revelation. • • But long
prior to the death of Cyprian, the imperial ar-
chives show that so far from dreading, there
was rather an eagerness among the Christians to
obtain the honors of martyrdom, in preference
to an abjuration of their faith. And during the
administration of Antoninus, who was born in the
first century, and subsequently became emperor,
that humane Pagan, when he beheld the vast
crowds of bis people openly proclaiming their faitb
in Christ, which he regarded as a mere desire on
their part to die, exclaimed: ' Unbappy men ! if
you are thus weary of your lives, is it so difficult
for you to find ropes and precipices?' • • He ron·
demoed a 'few' to death (says the historian} and
VISION I, 79
dismissed the ' multitude' with indignation and
contempt. • • 'On this melancholy occasion,' con·
tinues Gibbon, ' there were many among the Gen•
tiles who pitied, who admired, and who were
converted. The generous enthusiasm was com·
municated from the sufferers to the spectators; and
the blood of martyrs, according to a well-known
observation, became the seed of the church.' ••
At length the Christians became so numerous and
so powerful, that the emperors were compelled to
desist from the effort to extirpate them. And then
occasionally there were bishops who were cor·
rupted by the vast amount of power and of riches
which were bestowed upon them. Paul of Samo-
sata was of this class. He was Bishop of Antioch,
A. D. 260. ·The historian says, ' His ecclesiastical
jurisdiction was venal and rapacious ; he extorted
frequent contributions from the most opulent of the
faithful, and converted to his own use ~ consider-
able part of the public (or church) revenue. By
his pride and luxury, the Christian religion was
rendered odious in the eyes of the Gentiles. His
council-chamber and his throne, (while the head of
the church in the city of Rome was yet simply a
bishop,) the splendor with which he appeared in
public, the_ suppliant crowd who solicited his at-
tention, the multitude of letters and petitions to
'!hich he dictated his answers, and the perpetual
hurry of business, in which he was involved, were
circumstances much better suited to the state of a
80 THE BOOK OF TJ8I0!(8,
'civil magistrate, than to the humility of a primitit'•
bishop. He indulged himself (adds the historian)
very freely in the pleasures of the table, and he had
received into the episcopal palace two young and
beautiful women 88 the constant companions of hit
leisure moments. To those indulgences he had
added a change ·in his faith.' .• But-he was not
infallible; nor 88 yet bad any of the bishop• pre•
tended to any exclusive jurisdiction, a1 a right
conferred by divine or apostolic authority•••
' From Egypt to the Euxine sea,' says profane his-
tory, 'the bishops were in arms and in motion.
Councils (or conventions) were held, and Paul of
Samosata was degraded from his episcopal cha·
racter, by the sentence ofseventy or eighty bishops,
who assembled for that purpose at Antioch. And
the Emperor Aurelian acquiesced in the deci1ion.'
• • About the same time Marcellus, the centurion,
at a public festival (in honor of the Pagan god1)
threw away his belt, his arms, and the ensigns of
his office, and exclaimed with a loud voice, that
'He would obey none but Jesus Christ, the eternal
king, and that he renounced forever the use of
carnal weapons, and the service of an idolatrous
master-the emperor. The soldiers, as SOOD u
they recovered from their astonishment, secured
the person of Marcellus. He w.as examined in
the city of Tingi; and as he was convicted by bis
own confession, he was condemned and beheaded •
for the crime of de1ertion.' • • There are a thou~
VISION I, 81
sand passages in history, which crowd upon my
mind, confirmatory of the truth of the books of re-
velation. Without having even read the whole
of the Scriptures, I see plainly that I cannot, con-
sistent with candor, any longer permit my name to
be referred to as that of a skeptic. . • The im-
partial voice of history likewise affords unerring
information in regard to many of the forms and
ceremonies of the Christians, before the existence
of the PoPES at Rome ; and some of those forms
have been long, and are yet, attributed by the
uninformed Protestants of every nation, and espe-
cially in our own country, to the establishment of
papal supremacy, which took place some time after
the fourth century, and prec.eded the introduction
and spread of Mohammedanism. About the end of
the third century the sign of the cross was used by
all orthodox Christians; and the Banner of the
Cross was borne in the armies of the Emperor Con-
stantine, who was converted to the faith, but still
_granted to bis Pagan subjects the liberty of wor-
shiping according to the dictates of conscience. . •
At this time the bishops and other clergy wore
saeerdotal garments. • • The historian says: 'The
sacrament of baptism was regularly administered
by the bishop himself, with bis assistant clergy, in
the cathedral church of the diocese, during the
fifty days between the solemn festivals of Easter
and Pentacost; and this holy term admitted a nu-
merous band of infants and adult persons into the
82 THE BOOK Oi' VIS101'S.
bosom of the church. • . The sacrament of bap-
ti11m (even when it was administered to infants)
was immediately followed by confirmation and the
holy communion. • . In one year twelve thousand
men were baptized in Rome, besides a proportion-
able number of women and children... The rays
of the Gospel illuminated the court of India•••
Episcopal churches (continues the historian) were
closely planted along the banks of the Nile, on the
sea-coast of Africa, in the proconsular Asia, and
through the southern provinces of Italy••• A
Christian diocese might be spread over a province,
or reduced to a village ; but all t'he bishops po11u1etl
an equal and indelible character; they all derived U..
same p0toer and privileges from the apostle1,frorn
· the people, and from the laws.' Such is the testi-
mony of a skeptic. 1'he same historian says, when
a new bishop was to be made, ' the right of voting
was vested in the inferior clergy, who were best
qualified to judge of the merit of the candidates•••
The bishops could refuse to ordain an unworthy
candidate.' Surely there is a great resemblance
between the mode of selecting bishops in our day
and in the time of the early Christians. • • Not
until about the third century, was celibacy enjoined
on the clergy; and about the same time there were
monks. But the observance of the one, and the
existence of the other, occurred some two hundred
years before the installation of a pope, as the
spiritual and temporal head of the church. • ,
VISION J, 83
During the reign of Constantine (which was ante-
rior to the reign of the popes), the historian says:
' The Christian temples of Antioch, Alexandria,
Jerusalem, Constantinople, etc., \Vere of a simple
oblong form ; though they might sometimes swell
into the shape of a dome, and sometimes branch
into the figure of a cross. The timbers were
framed for the most part of cedars of Libanus; the
roof was covered with tiles, perhaps of gilt brass,
and the walls, the columns, the pavements, were
incrusted with variegated marbles. The most pre-
cious ornaments of gold and silver, of silk and
gems, were profusely dedicated to the service of
the altar••• An annual income of about six hun-
dred pounds (about $3000) was assigned to the
bishops, who were placed at an equal distance be-
tween riches and poverty.' .• At this early period
the privilege of sanctuary was in existence, and
derived its origin from the Pagan temples..• 'And
the lives or fortunes of the most eminent subjects
might be protected by the mediation of the bishop.'
• • Penance was imposed, excommunication was
pronounced, and confession was instituted during
the first centuries of the promulgation of Christian
principles, and previously to the asserted pre-
eminence of papal authority at Rome. At that
early period, likewise, the veneration of sacred
relics was in vogue. But the worship of images,
the granting of indulgences, and the idea of pur-
gatory, were subsequently introduced.•• A rem-
84. THE BOOK Oi' VISIONS,
nant of primitive Christians established on the coast
of Malabar, in Asia, escaped the contaminations
and tyranny of many succeeding ages, from their
obscurity, and were only discovered in 1603 by
the Roman Catholic navigator, Vasco de Gama.
The authentic account of this discovery says:
'When the Portuguese arrived, they were agree-
ably surprised to find upwards of a hundred Chri&-
tian churches on the coast of Malabar. But when
they became acquainted with the purity and sim-
plicity of their worship, they (being subject to
Rome) were offended. These churches, said the
Portuguese, belong to the pope. Who is the pope?
asked the natives-we never beard of him. The
European priests were yet more alarmed, when
they found that these Hindoo Christians maintained
the order and discipline of a regular church, under
episcopal jurisdiction; and that for thirteen bun·
dred years past, they bad enjoyed a succession of
bishops appointed by the patriarch of Antioch.
We, said they, are of the true faith, whatever yota
from the west may be; for we come from the place
where the followers of Christ were first called
Christians. • • At a compulsory synod, one hun-
dred and fifty of the Syria!) clergy appeared; and,
by the Archbishop Menzes, the pope's represent&·
tive, were accused of having married wives, of
owning but two sacraments, baptism and the Lord's
Supper: that they neither invoked saints, nor wor-
shiped images, nor believed in purgatory; and that
VISION I. 85
they bad no other orders or names of dignity in the
church, than bishop, priest, and deacon.' • • The
crushing power of the inquisition soon reduced
these simple and inoffensive Christians in subjec-
tion to Rome. But some of the churches in the
interior, where the persecutors could not penetrate,
escaped the papal sword, and 1till exist, it is said,
in their original purity, in every respect similar to
the church at this day. in our land of liberty."
I embarked in a large American ship at New
York, for England. For some days we had pros-
perous winds, with fair and pleasant weather.
There were some twelve or fifteen passengers in
-the cabin; among whom, perhaps, were three or
four religious persons. The rest were habitual
ainners, and the continuance of unclouded skies
had rendered them quite profane, for they had dis-
.missed all apprehensions of danger.
On the twelfth day, however, I observed the
mercury rising rapidly in the thermometer, and as
auddenly sinking in the barometer, which indicated
an immediate storm. Ere long the captain rose
from the table in the cabin, around which we were
seated, and went hastily on deck. These indica-
tions were not observed by the passengers, who
were relating wicked adventures, and occasionally
uttering horrid blasphemies. I sat with my eyes
fixed upon the weather-cock, which could be dis-
cerned through the ship's skylight. It was almost
calm, and what little wind there was came from the
8
86 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
east. But while I looked, it shifted its course, and
came briskly from the S. W.-but not steadily,
and soon the sky began to grow dark in every di-
rection. Torrents of rain fell upon the surface of
the ocean. Still I sat and watched the weather-
cock, as well as the compass 11uspended over the
captain's seat at the table. Soon the wind again
changed, and came from S. S. W., and the pas-
sengers began to express the cheering belief that we
were now to have fair winds. But I could perceive
that the captain was issuing bis orders with much
animation, and that the sailors were busily engaged
taking in and furling the highest sails. At length
I saw the weather-cock whirl quickly round, and
we were violently assailed by a hurricane from the
N. E. The sails broke loose, and flew up horizon·
tally; the masts curved and trembled frightfully,
and then the ship, plunging downward on its side,
seemed for an instant to become stationary in that
attitude. This pause, this temporary calm within,
while the deafening and <lashing elements were
spending their fury without, was the mo11t appalling
moment for those who bad never before been wit·
nesses of a storm at sea.
I then cast my eyes upon the record of the pau-
ing thoughts of the most profane individual pre-
sent; and the following is a faithful transcript:
" What will become of me if the ship goes down?
If there be truly a hell, it will be my portion. I
have ridiculed and abused the members of the
VISION I. 87
church, and denounced the church itself.•• I have
never read the Bible.•. If I were to pray~ could
I hope for pardon? I wish I could pray. . •
Why have I not led a diff'.erent and a better life?"
[Here the evil spirit suggested: " There is no dan-
ger."-There was no response from the spirit of
good.] "But," he continued, "I must conceal
my terror from the rest, or they will laugh me to
scorn, if we ride out the storm in safety•.. No;
they are all frightened themselves, and are as pale
as death. There is one only who is calm and
serene, as if we were lying safely in harbor, and
that is a woman. And she has often been the
subject of our raillery, because she kept the Sab-
bath holy, and devotes so much of her time to the
perusal of the Bible. We laughed at her alarm,
and now she is smiling in triumph, while we are
quaking with fear." [Here the good monitor pre-
sented these words to him: "REPENT-REFOD!."]
"I never before," he continued, "saw one so lit-
tle moved in the hour of peril. It must be attri-
butable to her religious faith. • . We may be now
quiyering on the verge of eternity, and in the act
of plunging in. . . I repent the wicked deeds I
have done. I have committed many wicked acts
in my life ; and if I could be assured of forgive-
ness, I would make a solemn pledge to lead a new
life in future. . . Hark! miserable, thrice misera-
ble man that I am !" [Here the captain's voice
was heard, directing the helmsman to put the ship
88 THE BOOK Oi' VISIONS.
before the wind.] "That's the captain's Yoice,
and he speaks firmly. Then there is hope. So!
I heard one of the sailors laugh. Now, I doubt,
if there be much danger. I must be the first to
manifest indifference, and to jeer the frightened
passengers... I must swear stoutly, to indicate
that I have not been alarmed myself."
I ascended the companion-way, and looked oDt
upon the scene. We were now scudding under
close-reefed topsails, directly before the wind.
The ship rushed along like a stag before a lion.
No sooner bad one terrific blast spent its fury, than
we were assailed by another. One moment the
black clouds would seem to break open, and ad-
mit a gleam ofcheering light: but before one could
congratulate himself upon the prospect of speedily
having a clear sky, be was again plunged in dark-
ness by another cloud, (and they came like vast
billows rolling after each other,) while the wind
whistled through the rigging, and the masts bowed
and groaned as before. Thus a succession of
clouds burst upon us, each discharging its distinct
tornado, and its rattling rain. There was neither
thunder nor lightning. As we flew before the
furious wind, I could merely distinguish the orders
of the captain thundered through a trumpet, above
the gale ; but as they were repeated by the mates,
the active sailors flew hither and thither like spor-
tive, but ever obedient,' spirits ofthe vasty deep!'
And the good ship rode it out bravely.
VISION I. 89
But no cheering tidings had been received be-
low ; and when I returned to the cabin, the hard-
ened individual referred to, with a very bad at-
tempt at seeming un~oncern, asked me what was
the condition of affairs above. Declining to ex-
press an opinion, I told him to seek information
above. Instantly I perceived that he supposed I
h~d referred to his Maker ; and as he immediately
afterwards sunk down on a sofa and buried his
face in his bands, I resu~ed the perusal of his
thoughts, as follows:-" Oh God! I have continu-
ally sinned against thee all my life, and I know
not how to ask forgiveness.. . If I am only spared
this time ; if I ever set my foot upon dry land once·
more, I will remain upon it forever... Forever?
Must I not die some time or other? Do not men
die on land? . . I have never before thought se-
riously of death-much less of a future life be-
yond the grave... If I am spared now, I must
inevitably die some other time. That is certain.
And if there be a hell where the sinner is torment-
ed forever, do I not deserve to be plunged into
it ? What benefit will it be for me to escape this
time, merely to sink to perdition a few months or
years hereafter? . . But there is a Heaven, they
say, promised in the Bible, to those who are reli-
gious. I see many Christians happy in this world ;
perhaps, they have generally as much enjoyment
as we have ; and then they are said-and they
expire believing it themselves-to be translated to .
s•
90 THE BOOK OF VISIONS,
a place of bliss after death... I have m'ade up iily
mind to study the Scripture• as soon as we reach
the land.•• No; I will not postpone it till then;
this night, if we are spared to see it, I will borrow
the Christian lady's book, and diligently pore ovel'
its contents in my state-room. . • I am glad these
thoughts have sprung up within me. I will reform·
my life, and strive to compensate for the past by
future good works."
The remainder of the voyage was destitute of
events worthy of remark; and in a fortnight I was in
London, the great emporium of the world. I was
whirled rapidlythrough many labyrinthian thorough·
fares until we had passed North Audley Street, and
then a few moments sufficed to reach a shelter from
the humid atmosphere, and to enjoy the repose so
much needed.
More than once I was startled from my slumber
by the confused hum of voices, and the inces-
sant rumbling of innumerable carriages; sounds
to which I had long been a stranger, and were
apparently unobserved by others in that compara-
tively quiet end of the city. Once I parted the
curtains of my window and gazed down on the
scene below. There was a living stream of pedes-
trians hurrying along the pavement; male and
female, old and young were there·, passing un-
shelteret.1 through the rain, by the light of the gas-
lamps; and these were continually saluted by the
piteous cries of mendicants for charity, while the
•
VISION I. 91
magnificent coaches of the aristocracy, all radiant"
with their own brilliant lights, rolled proudly by,
beyond the reach of annoying importunity..• I
saw a happy smile upon the lip of the beggar, who
possessed but a single penny, when contrasting his
good fortune with the utter destitution of his un-
successful fellow; the self-felicitation of the shop-
man, that he was not like one of these beggars;
the gratification of the banker, that he was not
compelled to trudge along on foot unsheltered, like
the shopman; the pride of the nobleman in being
removed above the rich commoner, whose es-
cutcheon was devoid of the emblematical devices
.of rank and title ; the self-complacency of the
prince, that, unlike the merely noble, the blood-
royal palpitated through his veins; and, finally, the
glory of the monarch, that none other reigned.
And the joy of the first was as sweet as that of the
last. All could see a greater depth of misery be-
low, and herein they could consider themselves
happily favored. But such enjoyments are ever
of transient duration; as true happiness was re-
served alone for Heaven. .for each gleam of
delight which illuminates the eye, there are a
thousand sorrows and painful anxieties, that fur-
row the brow and blanch the cheek, throughout
the wlwle catalogue of human beings. If chance
exalts a man to a high and enviable position, he
is ever liable to be plunged by misfortune into the
lowest depths of misery. The mendicant who
92 THE BOOK 01' VI8IOlf8,
loses his penny, is Jess unhappy by the Jou of bis
all, than the monarch who loses his crown. The
rich and powerful are daily troubled with unceas-
ing apprehensions of losses and mortifications, and
their feverish sleep is filled with frightful phan·
toms; while the most destitute and powerless
Christian, if he be filled with faith and truly hum-
ble, finds joy in the possession of a scanty morsel,
and his dreams of gorgeous possessions and bound·
Jess luxuries, are unmixed with painful cares.-
How can it be decided who enjoys the most hap-
piness on earth? This condition of insoluble du·
biety is the design and work of the great Creator,
to accomplish his wise purposes. Any one who
will obey Goel, and give him the glory-having
the true faith-may enjoy as much happiness as is
aJJowecl to mortals here below ; and his chief bless-
ing will be in his anticipation of the bright and
everlasting inheritance beyond the grave, con-
trasted with the eternal torments which must be
the fate of those who strive against their Maker,
even if they be kings and princes.
On Sunday morning, it was a pleasing sight to
behold even a feeble ray of sunshine force its way
through the dark and gloomy atmosphere-ever
banging like an impending curse over the city-
and penetrate my casement. I sallied out alone,
and on foot, and wandered through Hyde Park,
(the finest ornament of this modern Babylon,)
thence along Constitution Hill, by Buckingham
VISION I. 93
Palace, to York Street, and so on to Westminster
Abbey.
I always behold this ancient, magnificent, yet
gloomy temple, with a melancholy pleasure. I
love to gaze upon its ' dim windows, fretted pillars,
long colonnades, and dark ceilings,' and to feast ·
my eyes with 'the statues, the inscriptions, and the
monuments of the dead.' Those that were the
work of the first three centuries after the erection
of the structure, are more appropriate to the place
than the subsequent ones. The modern statues
would be better placed in an artist's exhibition
room, than over the ashes of the dead in the
solemn transepts of the church. They betray too
much of an irreligious vanity in their tout ensemble.
Whereas the recumbent statues of the early kings
and princes are in the d.rapery of the tomb, and in
the attitude of adoration, howsoever seldom their
originals may have assumed that posture. Still
· they exhibit less earthly vanity than the monuments
of the modem heroes, philosophers and poets.
Here reposed the crumbled, or crumbling remains
of hundreds of the greatest and most distinguished
children ofGreat Britain. From the days ofEdward
the Confessor, to the present time, those who have
attracted the most admiration while living, have
been honored, when dead, with the rites ofsepulture
in this ancient and gorgeous sanctuary. While their
memory is venerated by the living, who can say
that the spirits of all the dead who lie in the pre-
94 THE BOOK OF VISIONS,
cincts of this, or any other church edifice, are
capable of enjoying such ·veneration? Too many of
them, alas! won their distinction in irreligious pur-
suits, and are now deploring in ceaseless torment
many of their acts, which are the subjects of com-
.mendation among the Iiving. They employed their
lives in building a marble effigy to leave behind
them, and neglected to provide anything to take
with them for their eternal comfort. This reflection
itself, is probably now a burning regret which
racks them with agony.
The solemn chant of praise and prayer (still ad-
hered to in the Abbey) now filled the gigantic
edifice, and vibrated through all its aisles, and
dark chapels, where the illustrious dead have re-
posed for ages. I was fortunate in obtaining a
comfortable seat amid so vast a concourse of human
beings crowding towards the altar. There sat in
my immediate vicinity a dignified personage, whose
form was slightly curved with the weight of years;
but whose expansive forehead, arid clear eye, in-
dicated an undiminished power of intellect. He
was a prominent member of the government; and
one might have presumed, from bis protracted fits
of abstraction, that his thoughts, in that spacious
and imposing sanctuary, more frequently dwelt
upon the affairs of state, than upon the means of
securing a happy estate for himself in the future
existence.
The evil spirit thus advised him: " Win a sta-
VISION I. 95
tue; riches suffice butfor the present." The good
spirit displayed these words upon its tablet: "W1N
AN IMMOB.TAL CB.OWN;" and thus he thought: "We
give the church enough; let it look to the welfare
of our souls. . . We must take care of the empire;
and Englishmen have never yet been unmindful of
the merits of those who served them best, nor un-
grateful to their benefactors•.. But the government
and the existing order of classes must be preserved.
There is no other way to be assured of the preser-
vation of the past, present, and future monuments
of our greatness. By the existing systems ours has
become the greatest empire in the world ; and by
them, alone, can its magnitude and importance be
maintained. We are told, and it may be partly
true, that we sacrifice the comforts of the laboring
'millions to adorn the national diadem with lustrous
jewels: but should the work of radical innovation
once begin, who could set bounds to its progress?
Once- arouse the spirit of democratic reformation
and retalia.tion in the breasls of the millions now
humiliated by a long course of systematized op-
pression, and every bright 11tar in our glorious mo-
narchical firmament would soon be blotted out
forever. . • Who could foresee all the conse-
quences? The abolition of the laws of primo-
geniture would, it is true, effect a more general
dissemination, and a more equal distribution of
wealth among the poorer classes: but whether the
nation, under democratical institutions, could main-
96 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
tain its unity, and preserve its present high posi-
tion, must be considered extremely doubtful. . But
even admitting that such a change would be at-
tended by sClch a result, it is appalling to con~em­
plate the vast destruction of countless objects of
national pride and family gratification which have
been held in veneration from time immemorial.
Every memento of royalty, and of the aristocracy,
would soon be utterly demolished. Even in such a
sacred place as this, the work of mutilation would
penetrate, and rude hands would be laid upon the
monuments of statesmen who flourished under the
'ancient regime.' It must not be, if I can help it
-unless, indeed, not being purely one of them
myself, the aristocracy should design merely to
make use of my talents for their own benefit, and
then repel my pretensions to an imperishable me-
morial in the catalogue of renowned statesmen.
This they shall not do; and I will not rely altoge-
ther upon their award of fame.•. Their welfare,
their very existence, is now seriously menaced
by the formidable spirit of Democracy, roused at
length from its inanition by the surprising progress
of the age. . . That the Americans are prosperous
and happy under their republican form of·govern-
ment, every enlightened monarchist in the world,
bas been forced to acknowledge in his heart-and
kings are now trembling under the conviction that
the mendacity of their bribed historians cannot
much longer avail them as effeetive instruments of
VISION- I. 97
deception. Hitherto the knowledge of the distinct-
.ive contrasts between American Republicanism
and French Democracy, has been confined to the
few; but the navigation of the ocean by steam,
affords immense opportunities of spreading the im-
portant information among all classes. . • The
great principle asserted by Alison, that Provi-
dence, by the action of moral laws, punishes
wrong, even upon earth, and sooner or later re-
bukes and counteracts every species of injustice,
will be the most strikingly illustrated in his own
fate, and in the universal condemnation of his vast
labors. The unmitigated iniquities in a single
chapter, will completely destroy the good effects of
bis candid efforts for twenty years. The palpable
and monstrous misrepresentations in his descrip-
tions of the American government and people,
will be perceived and admitted by every one im-
mediately, and henceforth none can implicitly be-
lieve any of his statements in regard to other
countries and people. He says Napoleon was de-
tected in putting down his loss at about one-fourth
the true number, after a battle; and therefore the
historian adopts the rule of estimating the number
stated in the imperial bulletins·at that proportion of
the actual amount. The same rule will be applied
to Mr. Alison's statements.•• The same race
dwells among us, possessing the same qualifica-
tions of the founders of the great American Re-
public; and when they are enliihtened by per-
i
I
..
98 THE BOOK 01' VISIONS.
ceiving the contrast in their condition, and feel
conscious that they have the means of throwing off
the shackles which so long have bound them, who
can be able to dispute their will? I must have
them to be my partisans; I must affect to lead them
against their oppressors, and by amelioration and
compromise, arrest their march short of the deso-
lation they might perpetrate, if suffered to move
themselves, devoid of a skilful director.•• By
anticipating the movement whirh the condition of
things must sooner or later produce~ I will acquire
their confidence, and be enabled to control them•••
The aristocracy will denounce me, but they will
yield, and ultimately thank me for averting the
more fatal blow that impended. I will be the
champion of the masses, who will preserve my
memory and my monument in future times, even
should the swelling tide of Democracy hereafter
cover every foot of this island."
The next individual to whom my attention was
attracted, was a lady of quality, decked with a
profusion of jewels, costly laces, and other fine
apparel. Thus she mused: "I think her majesty
might have condescended to have afforded me the
merest imaginable nod at the opera last night, in-
asmuch as she was graciously pleased to bestow
most profusely her patronizing bows on the wives
and daughters of so many commoner1. And'some
of them whom she deigns to smile upon so pub-
licly, will not be likely to do her majesty much
VISION I. 99
credit, if there be anything in the current rumors.
If she means to extend her protection to all sorts
of people, whether they have virtue and decency
or not, she will find her court forsaken by all the
best born and best bred ladies in the kingdom..•
Surely his grace of --- cannot have been so
base as to betray me! I was merely railing plea-
santly, as he must have understood, when I said
her majesty's cheeks were none the worse for rouge,
and afterwards admitted my error, by attributing
her high color to the accident of encountering the
flashing eyes of the Marquis of ..• Either
his grace has betrayed me, or else she loves the
Marquis! If it be the last, then I shall covet
none of her perfidious smiles. I ·will dissect his
very heart, but this mystery shall be solved. And
'after I have related to him the queen's shame-
ful conduct at the opera, be shall presume to cast
his eyes again in the direction of her box, I will
cast him otr forever.•. There sits the old pur-
ring Countess of ---, looking much like the
rigid statue of her great-grandmother, in the east
aisle. I think she will disappoint the sculptor, if
there be any virtue in human petrifaction. She is
already nearly as rigid as marble, and certs.inly as
devoid of color, when she forgets to paint her face.
Last evening she was as full of airs, and quite as
coquettish as a damsel of twenty... Truly she
is a ridiculous specimen of an object to monopo-
lize the attention of two or three of the other sex
100 THE BOOK OF VISIONS,
during the entire intermissions between the acts!
She, at seventy! And now she affects a sancti-
monious visage, and strives to mumble the service
in unison with the choir. She ought to join her
ancestors as quickly as possible, for she is only an
object of disgust while Jiving." This noble lady
seemed to be in high favor with the evil spirit, for
he did not deem it necessary to apply the least
incentive to increase her natural propensities.
I then turned to the ancient countess referred to
by the preceding lady. The evil one exhibited
to her mind these words: " Wicked man deceived
you.'' The spirit of good replied: "HE ENTREAT·
ED PAR.DON AND DIED, MEET HIM IN HEAVEN.".
She pondered thus: "Here, in this holy place, we
were wont to sit side by side in youth. • • Those
happy moments can never be obliterated from my
mind..• It is true, he was false: but they could
never induce me to curse him. • • I still retain
his last letter, acknowledging his guilt and repent•
ance, and beseeching my pardon. I forgave him,
and he died-and they say, he died a Christian.
Merciful Parent, unite us in heaven! Thou know-
est that my poor desolated heart was given to thee;
and in thee alone have I found a comforter. Thou
knowest, that while forcing the -appearance of
gayety, when required by the custom of the realm
to assemble in the glittering balls of royalty, and
on other occasions of ceremony or pastime, to thee
my heart has unceasingly repeated the prayer that
VISION I, 101
- and I might meet in heaven. • • The
wealth inherited by me, and which was bounti-
fully bestowed by thee, I have given to the poor;
I have kept thy laws, according to the best die- .
tates of my conscience; and I have served thee,
end will continue during tbe remainder of my life
to serve thee, to the best of my judgment; and
still my humble petition is that we may meet at
last, to part no more, in heaven. But I would
implore thy blessing on our gracious sovereign,
and all loyal subjects, and indeed upon the whole
human race••• SttSan, my maid, says that the
laundress whom I dismissed from my service,
was innocent, and that the linen bas since been
found on the premises. Poor thing! She is living
in a small hut on the Paddington road, and avoid-
ed by all her acquaintance ; for she has told them of
what she was accused, and her protestations of in-
nocence avail nothing against the loss of her place.
I will recompense her. I will drive thither early
in the morning, and bring her back. She shall
be compensated for her cruel sufferings.•. John,
my coachman, is getting old and feeble. He has
been a faithful servant, and shall be handsomely
provided for, he and his family... I have a long
lil!t of deserving indigent persons, whom I shall
find pleasure in succoring-ay, far more pleasure
than I could ·find in dissipating my income at the
card-table, like the beautiful but unfortunate lady
g•
102 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
--, who seems to be even now sneering at my
wrinkles. I can pity her, and pray for her."
The next individual whose thoughts I was tempt-
ed to peruse, was a youug gentleman in black.
His face, however, was extremely fair, and well
colored, and his hair inclined to red. He was
seated at the elbow of the cabinet minister, and,
as I thought, had once or twice familiarly whis-
pered something in his ear. . The dark spirit
prompted him with these words: "The Levites held
office as a birth-right. The monarch and the peer•
hold o.ffice by the same tenure." To this the spirit
of good replied: "WHOSOEVER WOULD BE CHIEF,
LET HIM BE A SERVANT." Thus ran his thoughts:
" But I would not be the chief, and hence if the
saying means anything, it cannot apply to me, and
I shall contend for my rights.•. The sovereign,
by virtue of birth, is chief of the hierarchy, or head
of the church, whether male or female, pious or
impious; and by the same rule, I, who am the
grandson of a duke, am entitled to something more
than a simple parsonage in an eastern county,
where the revenue is only a paltry £700 a year,
and where a curate cannot be hired to perform the
duties for me at a less sum than £40 per annum.
The pitiful .£660 would not defray half my ex·
penses, and I should be deprived of my annual
continental tour••• How shall I keep· up my es-
tablishment in town during the season-my house
in the Terrace, my coach, my servants in livery,
l'lSlOM I. 103
etc. ? •• I am too deeply in debt already to reckon
upon obtaining additional funds from the old
source1. Why, it would require half my living to
pay the interest on my debts already contracted..•
I must have more, at least until I succeed in get-
ting the hand of Lady --, or that of Mis!l --,
the banker's daughter. Either will bring an ample
fortune; and then the government and the parishes
may take care of themselves." [I ascertained sub-
sequently that such instances of impiety among the
clergy in England, were becoming comparatively
rare, and that, as is the case in America, the truly
good and gifted minister was almost invariably
rewarded according to bis merits. Yet, where so
many of the best benefices were bestowed upon the
needy scions of noble families, it could not be sup-
posed that great energy and enthusiasm should
prevail, as in America, where the congregations
always exercise the privilege of selecting their
own rectors, and where there are no hired sub-
stitutes.]
The next individual whose thoughts I perused,
was a pale youth of lofty forehead and bright rest·
less eye, and whose brow was traced with the
marks of habitual study. The evil spirit thus in-
cited him: " Would it not be better to end thia
miaery by one bold blow, than to die at last of star- ·
tJation9" To which the bright spirit responded:
" SORROW NOT AS OTHERS WHICH HAVE NO HOl''E."
Thus he meditated : " Perish the evil thought
104 THE BOOK 01' VISIONS.
which would have me lay violent bands upon the
life which God created in his own good pleasure,
and in his infinite wisdom, to accomplish bis mys-
terious purpose. I have faith in bis word, and will
serve him to the utmost of my ability, relying, ever
relying, however sorely I may be afflicted in body
or spirit, upon his blessed promises. . • Tbe good
Dean's views accord exactly with mine. Ab!
ho~ unjustly does man, ' dressed in a little brief
authority,' and possessed of earth's riches, deal
with bis fellow-creatures of humble condition! • •
For months I toiled in my solitary and gloomy
garret, to produce a picture which I hoped might
both extricate me from pecuniary difficulty, and
from what I have often conceived to be my un·
merited obscurity; but, alas! no one would deign
to visit my humble apartment, and my work was
refused a place in the exhibition gallery en any ·
other terms than those with which I could not
comply. And he who gazed at my painting, fol·
lowed me out into the street, and thence accom-
panied me to my obscure home, and whom I fondly
hoped might be some generous patron, offered bat
the paltry sum of five guineas for the picture! And
this only upon condition that I would give him a
solemn pledge, in writing, never to intimate to
living mortal, whatever I might hear of it, and
wherever I might meet with it, that it was my pro·
duction, or the production of any other person than
the one to whom it might be attributed. It was
VISION I, 106
c my poverty, not my will consented.' A week
afterwards I saw my picture exhibited in the Na-
tional Gallery, labeled as the production of the
Hon. Augustus--, the son of a great earl! And
crowds of admirers were there, extolling it to the
echo! I modestly inquired the price of it, and was
told it could not be purchased for less than .£500.
Then hope and joy possessed my ingenuous heart.
I fancied that my production would be sold at an
extravagant price, and that the proceeds would be
generously placed at my disposal. Vain thought!
, Accidentally meeting the Hon. Augustus -- in
'the central portico as I withdrew, and where one
of the columns obscured me from the observation
of others, I sought bis recognition, with feelings of
exultation in my heart, and which were no doubt
depicted in my face. But his indignant and scorn-
ful frown dispelled at once my hopes. I was
the dupe of my own unreal imagery, and was
hound by the ties of honor, more adamantine than
bands of steel, to keep his secret••• Subsequently
I learned that this cruel young man bad long la-
bored under the displeasure of bis noble and pious
father, for his dissipations and reckless prodigality;
and that this speculation in the picture was a mere
trick to regain his parent's favor and replenish bis
purse. For some months he bad pretended to have
a fondness for painting, and had actually procured
the implements of the art. He then contrived to
have bis father apprized of bis change of habits,
106 THE BOOK OF V1810NS,
and of bis application to study. Rumors were also
eirculated of the existence of surprising specimens
of his genius, and the shameful deception was
completed by the exhibition of my production as
his own••. I am told his father gave him £1000
and sent him to the continent, where be is now
rioting in all bis former disgraceful excesses. • • I
will toil on, trusting in God's mercy and justice.
So far I have been rescued from starvation; and
it may be that I shall not suffer hereafter. But
God's will be done. He knows best what we stand
in need of, and he will bestow it in his good time,
and in bis own wise way. • . Let me see-I have
yet some thirty shillings left of the five guineas
received for my picture; ten shillings I must pay
for my last month's rent, and the remaining twenty
must suffice for my food until I can finish another
picture, the counterpart of the.one known as the
production of the Hon. Augustus --. • • I will
lin on bread and ale, rather than lose a moment
on any minor undertaking, until my counterpart is
completed. • • Surely there will be no difficulty
in procuring admission for my second picture,
since the first is called the ' gem of the collection.'
• • But will they not claim it also as the produc•
tion of the Hon. Augustus --? It would be a
terrible blow to lose it without being compensa~
for my fasts and labors. But I will put my trust
in Heaven, and persevere to the end.•. If it
should be the will of a merciful Providence, how
VISIOlf I. 107
joyful I would be to receive even one-half the price
offered for the first picture! l would be in aftlu-
ence myself, and would be enabled to assist my
poor mother in York." [The "poor artist's prayer
was granted, and at a subsequent period the sale
of his pictures-the work of only twelve months-
brought £4000. _The Hon. Augustus -- was
~inated by an Italian in Civita Vecchia.]
Of the rest of this congregation whose secret
thoughts were perused by me, there was not more
than an equal proportion who meditated piously
and reverently during the service. And I dis-
covered that some who made the greatest external
show of religion, were not always the most devout
at heart. I also perceived that a number of indi-
viduals entertained the very singular and absurd
notion, that their mere attendance within the walls
of the church, was an ample expiation of their
transgressions during .the preceding week. This
idea they had imbibed in early youth, and it ad-
hered to them in manhood. They did not ' search
the Scriptures' sufficiently, nor did the Dean seem
to rebuke and admonish them enough, but rather
addressed them all as Christians, who did their
duty cheerfully whenever instructed by their pas-·
tor. He did not seem to be altogether aware that
the people might congregate in that holy place with
other purposes than to worship. He knew they
had been baptized in infancy, and those who had
not yet been confirmed had responsible sponsors.
I
108 THE BOOK OF \'ISlONS,
And so he regarded them all as the sheep ofChrist's
pasture, and as rbany as chose partook of the
body and blood of the Lord. But he knew it had
been faithfully proclaimed to them, that they must
be judged according to their deeds; and that the
responsibility would be upon those who rashly and
unworthily partook of the holy Sacrament. Surely
no one would ever be found to approach that table
with evil in his heart, if it were always remembered
that the secret thoughts of all are known to God.
But many strive to forget.
I embarked at Brighton for France, and three
days afterwards was in Paris. On the occasion of
a high festival at the Church of St. Roch, I went
thither with the multitude. As I ascended the
broad flight of steps, I noticed upon the columns
and the walls the marks of cannon balls; and the
bloody scenes of the 'Reign of Terror,' and of two
revolutions, were called up in my memory. But
within, all was grand and pleasing to the eye.
The music rose above every other sound, and all
seemed to be transported with the performaoce.
There were two organs, and many of the chief
singers of the opera had been engaged to join the
choir. • • This <lay the Queen, and several mem-
bers of the royal family were present, and they
seemed to omit no portion of their religious duties.
The first individual whom I noticed specially,
was an octogenarian, whose costume and manners
indicated that he was one of the few surviving
VISION I. 109
nobles of the ancf.ent regime. The evil spirit
tempted him thus: "By blood you were despoiled;
by blood you may be reltored;" to which the good
spirit replied: "JEHOVAH REIGNS: HIS WILL BE
DONE ON EARTH AS IT IS IN HEAVEN." These were
bis thoughts: "Too much blood has been spilled
already. But God knows best••. It was perhaps
necessary, in the wisdom of Providence, to shed
the blood of the king, and scatter the aristocracy
to the four quarters of the globe, as an example;
for enormous corruptions and abominations, most
truly, existed among us.•. The Lord affiicts us
for our good. From the highest to the lowest, and
even in the church, everywhere the dominion of
Satan was increasing to a lamentable extent. But
the wisdom of God applied a remedy. The evil
and ignorant rabble who slew their rightful king,
selected from among their own class other rulers,
who led them to slaughter, and were slain them-
selves in turn. The soil of France, and of every
country in Europe, has been moistened with the
blood of erring Frenchmen. When our crimes are
all expiated, it may be God's pleasure to restore to
the nation its ancient repose, its ancient dynasty,
and its ancient worship. . . I can have but little
personal concern in the future events of my coun-
try. I am tottering towards the grave, and must
employ my few remaining moments in seeking to
secure the future repose of my immortal soul. In
10
•
110 TJIF. BOOK OJ.' VISIONS,
Heaven the Eternal will reign forever. No prisons
are there, nor reeking guillotines."
The next individual whose thoughts I read, was
a member of the Cabinet. The following is a brief
extract from the record: " It is impossible to
maintain this state of things many years longer, un-
less the king shall, by some unforeseen stroke of
policy, -suppress the organizations and re-unions
of secret societies; which unceasingly conspire
against the perpetuation of his dynasty. I have an
authentic statement of the numbers who have, un-
der various pretexts, conspired against the govern·
ment during the last ten years; and they form a
vast majority of the people of the nation. The
Republicans are the ·most numerous. . . Even
here, in this assembly, and on this solemn occasion,
if any bold man were to cry out vive la Repuhlique!
a thousand cheering voices would shout aux armes!
. . . I must be vigilant." [Here he whispered to
one of his secret espions to have in attendance an
additional force of armed police.] .• "The music
is grand, charming, enchanting! Mario is in better
voice than he was at the Italiens, last night. • •
. We all dine to-day at the Tuileries."
Seated on my left was a young girl ·of much
beauty, whose thoughts ran thus:· "The Abbe
scolded me very harshly this morning at.·the c()n·
fessional, because I did not attend mas~ on. Sunday
morning, on my return from the bal ma.tque. I was
too weary, and should have only slept on my knees.
'
VISION I• 111
. • But still it was my duty, for in omitting to do
so, I did not keep holy the Sabbath. And with-
out his benediction I attended the theatre in the
evening. . • After the services I must acknowledge
my fault and pray to be forgiven."
On my right sat a grave dark-featured person-
age, evidently of great age, but nevertheless of un-
dimmed intellect, if one might judge from the ani-
mated expression of his large lustrous eyes. His
body was in an attitude of perfect repose; but his
mind was teeming with memories of past events
and profound reflections. While the good monitor
presented many passages of divine revelation, re- ·
ferring particularly to the immortality of the soul,
and the resurrection at the last day, the spirit of
evil was equally indefatigable in furnishing the
opinions of celebrated heathen and heretic philoso-
phers, in opposition to the truth of Christianity.
Thus he meditated: "It is undeniably true, that
if the soul of man be immortal, and other living
creatures have no souls, the great Creator has
evinced a kind partiality in our behalf-but this
partiality is admitted, and positively asserted in the
Scriptures. We are not to inquire why ~uch dis-
tinction was made. We know that even if there
.were no immortal principle within us, still a great,
an immeasurable difference would exist between us
and other species of the anim!ll creation. The
partiality, or distinction, would still exist to an in-
finite extent... Man reasons upon the present,
112 THE BOOK 01' VISIONS,
reflects upon the past, speculates upon the future.
And the emanations of his mind are indestructible,
immortal. The earth, and everything it contains,
that may be seen, felt, tasted, heard, or smelt;
every creation of our hands, whether of marble or
steel; all decay, corrode, or crumble under the
continual operation of the destroying elemen.ts;
and whether it be in a few hundred, or a few thou-
sand years, still all such objects have an end, and
ultimately leave no visible trace behind them.
The palaces of Palmyra and Babylon; the temple
of Jerusalem ; the walls of Troy-where are they?
These monuments were once considered as impe-
rishable as those of Egypt, (which for some wise
purpose God suffers yet to remain,) but neverthe-
less they have vanished. Some of the vast struc-
tures at Jerusalem were composed of blocks of
solid marble thirty-five feet Jong, seventeen feet
wide, and eight feet thick; yet, truly in ·fulfilment
of the declaration of Christ, ' not one stone re-
mains upon another.' But amid this vast desola-
tion, these stupendous ruins ofthe mere creations of
man, the mysterious operations of the soul, the ema-
nations of the immortal mind, have been transmitted
to us through the long vista of ages, undiminished in
power, undecayed by age, and still radiant with all
the luminous beauties which characterized them at
their birth. Mind speaks to mind, soul communes
with soul, through all the distance between the
present and the remotest past. Does not this ad-
VISION I. 113
mitted fact, this infinitude of.intellectual power,
clearly demonstrate that there is a spark of immor-
tal tire gleaming in the breast of every human
being? The corrosion of time will annihilate the
hardest marble carved into beautiful form by man
-and the band that formed it crumbles into im-
palpable dust-but the THOUGHTS of man, which
are formed of no perceptible substance, and created
without the employment of any visible agency, are
communicated frolll age to age without diminution,
comprehended by all, and by all admired. Even
the school-boy of this generation is beard repeat-
ing the words \Vhicb embodied the ideas of orators
and poets, wbos~ mortal remains perished more
than two thousand years ago. . . It is impossible
for death to destroy that which is immortal. Even
if the word of God l\a.d opt proclaimed it, be bad
bestowed upon our fac.ulties the ability to demon-
strate the indestructible. nature of the soul. • .
Still the people of this eplightened age are blind to
the truth, and millions perish like the fated Egyp-
tians. Without pausing to reflect that they have
souls at all, they act as if they did not even believe
they must die. Truly unbelief seems to be as pro-
found, incredulity as inveterate, in this day and
generation, as in the ·time of the prophets and
apostles. If the dead were to arise and speak to
them, hardened sinners would still persist in their
unbelief. War, famine, and pestilence-calami-
ties proceeding fr()m their own corrupt passions,
10•
114 THE BOOK OF VISIONS•
•
.
the instruments used by their offended Creator,
must still continue to agonize a rebellious world,
until the time may come when all nations, with
one accord, shall bow down in unfeigned adora-
tion of the only true God. . • The lessons of the
past' are unheeded, the operations of the present
are not comprehended, and vain man still arrogates
to be lhe arbiter of his own fate. • • The vices of
the corrupt court of the Bourbons, of which I was
a witness, exhausted the forbearance of the Ma-
jesty in heaven, and expiatory blood flowed in
torrents. But the ruthless instruments of God's
vengeance were still more wicked, and they too
perished. Hebert, Chaurnette, &.c., declared their
determination to dethrone the King of Heaven, as
well as the monarchs of the earth. I heard them
utter it, and thenceforth looked for their fate. I
witnessed the appalling desecrations in the 'Temple
of Reason.' I beheld Monort, in this very church,
when he rose and exclaimed: 'God ! if you exist,
avenge your injured name. I bid you defiance.
You remain silent; you dare not launch your thun-
ders; who after this will believe in your exist-
en·ce ?' He, too, I watched, in his subsequent
career. The might of God was vindicated. The
demons, who had erected the bloody guillotine,
and who bad perpetrated innumerable frightful
murders, dud by their own hands, and by the in-
struments they had created for the destruction of
others. Not one survived-nor.was the vengeance
VISION I. 115
so impiously invoked, long delayed. Instead of
a holy union on the part of surrounding nations to
re-establish order in France, they were wickedly
intent .upon their own aggrandizement. Russia,
Austria, and Prussia, partitioned Poland, and Eng-
land did not interfere to prevent it. The decrees
of Providence being worked out by general laws,
we are now permitted to perceive the punishment
of national iniquity. Napoleon, as the instrument
of wrath, captured Vienna, dashed Prussia in
pieces, and caused the devastating torch to be ap-
plied to Moscow. And England, for sins of omis-
sion or commission, did not escape. It was during
that inauspicious era that she accumulated the
enormous burden of debt, which still presses down
to the earth her suffering population. But the great-
est example of the utter impotence of man, when
assistance from above ceases to sustain him, may
be seen in the wretched end of the great conqueror
of kingdoms. . . History records no national, per-
haps no individual calamity, but what may be
traced to the violation of some principle of justice
or religion as the cause. The vengeance de-
nounced against the Jews by the Almighty, for
their manifold transgressions and unbelief, was
fearfully and fully executed by the idolatrous and
equally wicked Romans. From the destruction of
Jerusalem is dated the commencement of the
downfall of Rome. Coeval with vast corruptions
subsequently engendered in the Christian Church,
116 THE BOOK OJI' VISIONS,
was the rise of Mahomet-and the oceans of blood,
flowing alike from Crusader and Sarace.n, proved
that the condemnation of Heaven rested upon
them both. The assumption of the banner of the
cross, may have inspired the warrior with a belief
that the holy cause in which be supposed himself
to be engaged, expiated the crimes he had com-
mitted, and absolved him from penalty for those in
meditation; and the reeking Mussulman may have
been equally sincere in his convictions that his
sanguinary deity was the only true God, and that
Mahomet was his prophet-and both expiring in
this belief, neither may have been eternally lost-
we must not, we dare not pronounce their doom-
but we know they lived and perished. in error-
we know they were swept down in countless mul-
titudes, and that their bones whitened the plains of
Palestine. . • And yet there are those .w~o pre-
sumptuously assert, that if we admit the controlling
direction of Providence ·in scenes of slaughter and
destruction, we must at the same time admit that
he is a cruel and sanguinary, if not an unjust God.
And thus man would measure wisdom with his
Creator! D~ath may not be the mo;t terrible pang
which we are capable of suffering. Be that as
it may, we must once suffer death-and that gene-
rally befqre we attain the age of threescore and
ten years. B1.Jt let the terror of an .untimely end
be magnified to the utmost, so long as we see mul-
titud~s perish by divine wrath for their crimes, and
VISION I. 117
yet continue in our transgressions, the wrath of
God cannot be appeased. If we will not profit by
the lamentable example of others, it is but just
that we should be made a warning for those to
come after us-and so on from generation to gene-
ration, and age to age, until the creature-man
ultimately submits to his Creator- God. In vain
shall we look for God to grow weary of punishing
before we cease to transgress. The time is to be,
and will be, when there will be an end to sin and
suffering." ~
But why should I continue the transcription ? It
would consume time to no good purpose, perhaps,
to expose the secr~t thoughts of a thousand others;
some devoted to the political discussions of the '
time, and much time in France is idly spent; some
to the operations of the Bourse; some to the operas
and theatres; some to intrigues de l'amour, and
few, comparatively very few, in full health, to their
God. And yet, they will all acknowledge, that the
objects they pursue with so much avidity, are
transitory and deceptive in their nature; that
when successfully attained, (and they are in a ma-
jority of cases sought in vain,) they never realize
the anticipated enjoyment; and that, be such at-
tainments ever so much multiplied, and ever so
gratifying, they must all be relinquished; and those
who possessed them be consigned to the dark
grave, the repository of corruption. All these
things will be granted. They will further adm.\t.,.
118 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
that there is a life beyond the grave, where the
just and good on earth-those who obey God's
word-will be forever happy, and those who do
not obey will be utterly miserable. They make
this admission, and still continue to transgress!
Those who grant these stupendous truths, and yet
continue in the path of error, must be classed with
unbelievers, who merely acquiesce in the prevail-
ing opm1on. They see an acknowledged and
established result, and mechanically admit its
correctness, \\'ithout making the calculation for
themselves. How different would be the lot of
millions, if every one would only solve the mo-
mentous problem for himself! They would fain
believe that the eye of the Omnipresent is not
continually on them ; they will not believe that
God is always nigh, because they cannot 'see him
as he is,' which is permitted to no man: and it
would be no greater absurdity for them to believe
that God did not create the world, because they
cannot create worlds. If they would ' search the
Scriptures,' and credit them, they would know
that their deeds, whether good or evil, whether
<lone in secret or openly, and even their slightest
thoughts, are all exposed to the view of Him who
is to judge the world. And if they were to pause
the brief time it would require to obtain this know-
ledge, they would surely cease to do evil.
It would be incredible did we not sec it; and
seeing it, it must be regarded as an awful myst~ry;
VISION I. 119
that so many millions perish-perish forever-
without having the inclination or curiosity to test
the simple remedy-accessible in every quarter of
the earth, and devoid of expense-which is pre-
sented by their Creator and friend for their certain
salvation. Whether it will occur during this ge-
neration or not, who can tell? but the time must
come, when the eyes of all nations will be opened,
for God has spoken it.
I was permitted to behold the development of
some of the mysterious operations of Providence
upon earth, which seem to be unknown and incom-
prehensible to the unbeliever. I heard even the
pious man, when misfortunes fell upon him, mur-
mur at the injustice of his fate; and yet, submit-
ting in humility, he lived, he and his children, to
be afterwards truly thankful for the blow, for it
was fraught with blessings. I saw the wicked
man when raised to power and riches, rejoice in
l1is good fortune, and promise himself unmingled
happiness ; and afterwards he was plunged the
deeper into the abode of misery, from the fatal
elevation to which he had aspired.
When the good man is aftlicted, let him bless
the Disposer of all events, who has interfered and
rescued him from some irremediable calamity. If
he is bereaved by the stroke of death of one whom
he loves, let him think that if the loved one had
lil·ed, he might have met a worse fate. It it be
the lo~s of fortune, let him think his riches might
120 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
have entailed eternal perdition upon him or his.
Whatever it be, it is the work of a merciful God,
who loves his faithful children, whom he will sup·
ply with everything needful in this world ; and in
the better world to come, he will bestow on them
life eternal, and rich enjoyments which can never
fade away.
Let not the sinful man exult, when prosperity
seems to beam upon him. 'fhe last moments of
the rich and the great in this life, often comprise
an age of regret, remorse, and agonizing fears. In
his last moments of consciousnes11, Napoleon bad
not the same peace within, that is felt by the most
obscure Christian Corsican on his dying bed. And
the last moments of all, whether Emperors or pea-
sants, follow closely upon the footsteps of the first.
A mere breath is between them. And all should
learn that the higher one is elevated in this world,
like the accelerated force of gravitation, the harder
must be his fall into the inevitable grave.
YISION II. 121
VISION II.
I STOOD in the midst of an immense multitude,
in the Place de la Concorde, (once the bloody
scene of the murder of "the son of St. Louis,")
assembled to witness the passage of the king and
royal family to the Chamber of Deputies. While
perusing the record of the thoughts of those around
me, again a mist came over my eyes. It soon
passed away, like a running cloud, and a new
vision was r~vealed. I beheld innumerable celes-
tial spirits of a superior order, in bright vesture,
who seemed to fill the entire space above, but
whose brilliant empyreal bodies rather increased
than diminished the light of the sun. They seemed
to glide upon the wing with the rapidity of light-
ning; and only p~used ever and anon to receive
from the recording spirits the transcripts of the
thoughts and deeds of mankind to be registered
in heaven. For this purpose ccruntless hosts of
them were constantly ascending and descending.
Those who bore the record of the evil imaginations
of sinners to the throne above, had depicted on
their countenances the sad conviction of the fearful
doom of the transgressor. But those who bore to
11
122 THE BOOK 01' VISIONS,
heaven the tidings of the repentance of sinners,
had joy and gladness beaming in every feature.
It was not the joy and gladness of this life, or per-
taining to this world ; but such as is felt in the
courts of the Almighty Creator of the universe,
which surpasses the comprehension of corruptible
beings. Yet a ray of this joy-a reflection of this
heavenly fire-is occasionally imparted by the Holy
·One to earth, to cheer the feeble hearts of faithful
Christians.
I have often seen the smile of Jove and internal
peace upon the lips of those who were despised
and perstcuted for the worship of their Saviour;
but they knew their Comforter was not of this
world, and that the consolations of the Christian
were such that the world could not take away.
The converted man who is contented to know that
the Scripture contains everything it is necessary for
him to be acquainted with, may be assured that
his resolution to obey God, and worship him dur-
ing his brief pilgrimage below, has been fully re-
corded in heaven, and bas been welcomed with
rejoicings by the numberless angels around the
Eternal Throne. It was no idle assurance that
there shall be '•joy in heaven over one sinner that
repenteth." He who believes will not be mis-
taken.
I was also permitted to perceive that there were
ltgions of the angels of Satan, constantly roving
throughout the inhabitable earth. Like dark sha·
VISION II. 123
dows, they moved among mankind ; and furnished
the tempters-an inferior grade of the infernal
spirits-with evil thoughts to instill into the hearts
of those whom they sought to make their dupes
and victims. Every ingenuity, every conceivable
device, is constantly put in requisition by these
ministers of wo, to insriare, and impress into the
service of their impious master, the inhabitants of
the world. When the passions of a wicked man
are roused by real or imaginary wrongs, they urge
him to the commission of such acts of retaliation
or revenge, as are not· easily to be forgiven, and
which remove their victims farther away from the
Mercy Seat. They inspire others with the belief,
that simple justice towards their fellow men, and
an observance of the conventional rules of society,
and the laws of the country, will constitute an
ample obedience to the commandments of God,
and a sufficient justification to entitle them to future
reward. But by far the greatest evil they effect,
is by begetting in the hearts of men a repugnance
to religious instruction, a prejudice against the
ministers and the members of the church, and a
mockery of the holy precepts of the Bible. Their
work is incessant, and they accomplish an immen-
sity of evil. Although the instruction afforded by
Divine.Revelation is now within the reach of every
one, yet but comparatively few seek to be enlight-
ened; and thousands, nay, tens of thousands, learn
only enough to quote garbled passages of the Scrip-
124 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
tures in derision. Every blasphemer who scorn·
fully repeats such passages, to discredit the truth
of revealed religion, is ignorant-wickedly and
fatally ignorant-of the contents of the book he
condemn11. This is the spirit and the power of
Satan, so fearfully triumphant in various commu-
nities. So long as the Prince of Evil can blind
the eyes of men to the reality of the sacred record,
be has undoubted dominion over them, and they
are the subjects of his will. But when men have
the resolution to resist his instigations, and deter-
mine to seek the instruction afforded by Revelation,
then he presumes to invade the precincts of his
Divine Master, and even penetrates the holy sanc-
tuary of his worshipers. There be strives unceas-
ingly to rouse their passions, and to betray them
into the commission of evil. He furnishes the
minds of unwary believers with false interpretations
of the Scripture, to justify them in deeds of error.
He knows the weakness of human nature, and
takes advantage of our exposed condition on all
accessible occasions. He knows, too, every syl-
lable of the Scripture, and moreover, believes; but
he is an arrogant and rebellious believer, and an
enemy of God. But let us rejoice that there are
also frequent rebellions in Satan's dominions! The
Spirit of Good sometimes penetrates the darkest
recesses of the Temples of Evil ; a.nd sinners daily
abjure the allegiance of the Spirit of Darkness,
even in the midst of their most abominable prac·
VISION II. 125
tices. Those who have the consideration to pause
in the career of vice, and the moral firmness to
reflect with deliberation upon their origin and des-
tiny, ultimately fly to their Saviour for deliverance.
These, in the end,- if they be faithful, escape un-
harmed from the thraldom of Satan.
11*
126 THE BOOK OF Vl810lf8,
VISION III.
I STOOD at the bed-side of a dying Christian. He
was still conscious of his condition, and only panted
for the consummation of his approaching deliver-
ance. By au affirmative nod, and a smile, he sig·
nified his unshaken faith in the promises of the
Redeemer. When he could no longer respond by
a motion to the inquiries of his friends who wept
around his couch, and when the film of death be-
gan to obscure the lustre of his eyes, I drew nigh
unto the spirit of good, to peruse the last words of
the record of his thoughts. The spirit of evil no
longer tempted him; he had abandoned him in
despair, after in vain attempting to persuade him
that there was no righteous God, inasmuch as the
Christian was not spared the pain and sufferings
common to all. These were his closing thoughts:
"Farewell! This world is fast fading from my
sight. . . I trust in God. . • I hear them weep-
ing round me-father, mother, brothers, sisters, all
lament for me-but I do not suffer now, for my
prayer has been heard. . • Take me to thyself,
Father in heaven! Transport me to the place thou
hast provided... They mourn my departing spirit,
VlSlON 111. 1~
for they love me; and I love them ; but earth is
not a place of rest. . . I hope we will meet again
in paradise••• Welcome, death, since there is no
other means of entering into the world of eternal
bliss.,,, .. A moment afterwards he ceased to
breathe. As I gazed steadfastly upon bis cold,
pale features, once more my vision was obscured
for an instant, and when sight was restored to me,.
I beheld the spirit of my deceased friend, standing
by my side, and an angel holding him by the hand.
We were in the world of departed spirits: the
corpse still lay before us, and the mourners were
there; but there was between us and them a trans-
parent wall of separation ; while the walls of stone
that inclosed us opposed no greater obstacle to our
egress, than the walls of Herod,s prison did to
Peter. We seemed to stand upon the air, a few
feet above the heads of breathing mortals; but they
could never see us, as they cannot see the air they
breathe, which is so essential to their existence.
And that air to the vision of departed spirits, is
filled with a greater number of objects, than the
tangible earth presents to the sight of men. Yet
there are no collisions, no perceptible conjunctions,
between the corruptible and incorruptible exist-
ences. They are separated by the will of the great
Creator, as the stars are separated.
Joyous emotions filled my breast on beholding my
departed friend alive again. But, how changed!
The devastations which time and disease bad
128 THE BOOJt or VISIONS.
wrought upon the 1lesh, still marked the decom•
posing mass that lay upon the couch ; but the ethe·
realized form of my friend was radiant with celes·
tial beauty. He had neither wrinkle nor blemish;
yet the resemblance, the identity, was complete.
Although the tender smoothness of the infant bad
replaced the harsh angles produced by age and
mortal anguish, all the admirable expressions of the
pure thoughts and holy emotions of the soul, which
were constantly perceptible while living, were still
there, and the recognition was instantaneous.
As quickly as a man may divert his thoughts
from things present to objects in the most remote
parts of the earth, so, by the mere act of volition,
we were transported into the midst of the vast con•
gregation of the departed spirits of 'just men made
perfect.' It was Paradise; but not the heaven
destined for them, after the coming of the Lord 'to
judge the quick and the dead.' Yet all were in·
expressibly happy, and incapable, by the divine
decree, of suffering more. They did not even feel
the slightest impatience for the second advent,
when they would be crowned with glory ; for yet
they did not presume to desire greater bliss than
the reflection, that they had escaped the contamina•
tions of earth, resisted successfully the temptations
and snares of the e\•il one, and, after the close of
their labors and pains, had attained a place of rest
and enduring safety. This is the first joy, and,
VISION Ill. 129
how great! and yet the least, of the enfranchised
spirit of the Christian!
Indued with infinite intelligence, what must be
the satisfaction of the freed spirit of the faithful
Christian in paradise, to run over again in memory
the various scenes and events of his mortal career,
whe_
rein his steadfast faith triumphed over the
many difficulties that beset his path ? I saw that
those who had suffered most, and accomplished
most, for the sake of their heavenly King, had the
largest measure of enjoyment. The misfortunes
and woes of their earthly existence, were now the
most exulting themes of their reflections. Neither.
the errors they had committed (for even the true
Christians err in unguarded moments), nor the ap-
prehensions they had felt, were permitted to annoy
them. It was impossible for them ever to suffer
more.
The information I desired was given me. Each
departed spirit marked the place or places where
the surges of time deposited or' ~cattered the dust
of his mortal remains,-for they must be reunited
in the resurrection. Neither the mighty earth-
quakes which swallow up perishable matter, nor
the bidden depths of the great ocean, can oppose
bis will, or interpose an obstacle-for the power is
given him by the great Creator of earth and heaven.
The departed spirit of the Christian may behold
the good deeds of those to whom he was attached
on earth, by ties of blood or friendship, and find
130 THE BOOK OF VISIONS,
in their faith and obedience additional sources of
happiness; but he cannot grieve for the sins com-
mitted by those once dear to him ; for every de-
scription of anguish is inadmissible in paradise.
The ties of affection which may connect good and
evil on earth, are annihilated, and obliterated from
memory, if the evil continues. 'A great gulf is
fixed' between good and evil, after the dissolution
of the soul and body. We are all the children of
the first parents, who inhabited paradise; and those
only are beloved sisters and brothers, after death,
who meet in paradise. There, there are found no
earthly affections, save those which were unmingled
with evil.
The pen cannot describe the iputual ecstacy of
kindred spirits reunited in paradise. The holy
ties of affection, sealed by the bond of Christian
unity on earth, were magnified beyond the reach
of imagination in that bright receptacle. The an-
gels themselves conducted them into each other's
presence, and wept with joy at their prolonged
embraces. ·
VISION IV. 131
VIS lO N IV. •
I STOOD by the couch of a dying sinner. Here,
too, there was the appearance of grief in·the family
circle. But their lamentations were neither uni-
form nor profound. There were no spiritual ad-
visers present, for the dying man was rich, and
austere, and none dared to approach him but those
whom he particularly solicited t~ do so. The
physicians, the members of the family, and the
servants, glided noiselessly through the magnifi-
cent mansion, and every desire was communicated
in whispers. It was when the hand of death be-
gan to press heavily upon him, that the diseased
reprobate first conceived that the appointed time
of bis dissolution was approaching awfully nigh.
I had been sent for to write his will. When in
readiness to begin the instrument, he directed me
to await the result of his perturbed reflections; for
on the occurrence of a momentary cessation of
pain, he seemed plunged into a train of unquiet
meditations.
Thus he thought: "If I should become con-
valescent, I might regret having made a will. I
will wait. I do not suffer so much now-it is only
132 TllE BOOK OF VISIONS.
a chilliness in my breast..• No; I will wait. I
- see their curiosity and impatience, and will disap-
point them. Should I make a will, and then re-
cover, the world will ridicule my fears, and gossip
for a month on the topic of the unjust-of course
everyt~ing I do with my own, is unjust-di~posi·
tion of my property. . . Ob! that I could take
my wealth with me, if I must die! My family,
who have always feared me so much, will join my
enemies in execrating my memory • • My wife
would marry again-and with the man whom I
hne most hated, because of their early attachment.
And my children would marry the children of my
bitterest enemies. . . They are all impatient for
any exit, so that they may squander my fortune,
without once thinking of me, who acquired it. • .
I will disappoint them all. I will interdict their
marriages in my will by a provision which, in the
e\•ent of their disobedience, shall withhold my
fortune from them. But what will become of
me, after death?" [Here the spirit of evil inter-
po~ed by a brisk movement, and presented his
tablet with the following words inscribed thereon:
"It is too late to discuss that subject, now. In 1pite
of the predictions of the Christians, you have pro1-
pered in this life. If God is consistent, aa they
allege, how can he change hereafter?" The spirit
of good made no reply.] "They predicted," be
continued, " that my usurious exactions would
escape from my grasp in this life, and that endless
VISION IV. 133
perdition would be my lot. • . It seems to be cer-
tain that the first portion of the prophecy was a
lie ; and why should not the other part be the
same?"
Here the disease, which seemed to have sus-
pended its ravages for a few minutes, again preyed,
and with redoubled fury, on the vitals of its stub-
born victim. He motioned to me with a gesture
of impatience to write, and dictated with such
rapidity and incoherency that it was impossible to
understand the words he uttered. I let fall the
pen in despair. This he did not observe, and his-
lips moved hurriedly as if in the act of dictation.
At length they ceased to move, and a death-like
hue which pervaded his features, at first made us
suppose he was dead. But we were mistaken ; by
a violent effort he succeeded in turning himself
half over, and uttered these words in a husky,
sepulchral voice: ''Give me the will! and the
pen!" He was obeyed. But the pen dropped
from his benumbed hand, as he gazed in dismay
upon the blank sheet of paper. I now resumed
the perusal of the record of his thoughts: "Blank!
Not a word I wished is written! .. I have not the
strength to curse-or I would pour a consuming
torrent of execrations upon them all! !fhey have
me in their power, now..• None love me-none
pity me. • . If I could only pray- or if half
my fortune would purchase a respite of fifteen
minutes-how fearfully would I be revengedt '6'1.t
12
134 THE BOOK OF VISIONS.
I am dying-I feel it-I know it-and the result
of the labors of my whole life-all the wealth I
have amassed-will go into the hands of my ene-
mies-and be consumed by them-while they de-
ride my memory! And is it thus that the first
prophecy is truly fulfilled? True - true!- and
now, the-last!"
Here his soul separated from bis attenuated body,
and partook of the dark hue of the angel of Satan,
who appeared and conducted it hence to the re-
gions of torment.
I was permitted to behold the spirits of the con-
demned in their abode of misery. They were
sunk a great depth below the surface of the earth;
b_ut above all was perfectly transparent to them, as
the air above is to mortal vision. They could
perceive not only the transactions of men on earth,
but also the blessed inhabitants of Paradise. The
unquenchable fire of the wrath of the Almighty
ever consumed them; and yet they perished not.
The first torment that wrung them, was the appal-
ling consciousness that they had neglected the
means, which had been placed within their reach
while on earth, of securing a participation in the
joys of the righteous. And now it was forever
too late. -This was the first agony, and, how great!
and yet the least, of the condemned spirit of the
sinner.
They could perceive that there was " fixed a
great gulf" between themselves and the redeemed
VISION IV, 135
of the Lord; and they also beheld the wicked ac-
tions of those dear to them whom they had left
behind, which must consign them likewise to the
place of everlasting torment. And these wicked
habits were the effects of the examples set by those
now writhing in agony. They retained every
faculty necessary to produce and prolong infinite
suffering; but none that could afford a moment's
relief. They remembered the honors and riches
which, in life, had actuated their conduct, and
engrossed their thoughts, with disgust and horror.
And the grimaces and exultations of the minister-
ing angels of Satan, constantly added a frightful
accumulation of wo and anguish to their internal
fires of remorse.
THE END.
